{"id": "407640", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=407640", "title": "25th century", "text": "25th century\n\nThe 25th century of the anno Domini (common) era will span from January 1, 2401 to December 31, 2500 of the Gregorian calendar.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26044158", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26044158", "title": "A. W. B. Simpson", "text": "A. W. B. Simpson\n\nAlfred William Brian Simpson, QC (Hon.), JP, FBA (17 August 1931 – 10 January 2011) usually referred to as Brian Simpson, was a British legal historian and the emeritus Charles F. and Edith J. Clyne Professor of Law at the University of Michigan Law School.\n\nBorn in Kendal, Cumbria, Simpson was educated at Oakham School and The Queen's College, Oxford, where he took a First in Law.\n\nHe was a fellow and tutor of Lincoln College, Oxford from 1955-1973, before various professorships at the Universities of Kent (1975-1983), Chicago, Michigan, Cambridge and Toronto. As a result of National Service with the Nigeria Regiment, he retained an interest in Africa, and was Dean of the Faculty of Law of the University of Ghana in 1968-69.\n\nHis most serious works of legal history were a \"History of the Land Law\" (2nd Edition, 1986) and a \"History of the Law of Contract\" (1975), but he is best remembered for his \"Cannibalism and the Common Law\" (1984) and \"Leading Cases in Common Law\" (1995). At the end of his career he also wrote two works on twentieth century human rights: \"In the Highest Degree Odious: Detention without Trial in Wartime Britain\" (1992) and \"Human Rights and the End of Empire: Britain and the Genesis of the European Convention\" (2001).\n\nSimpson returned to an aspect of his own legal education at Oxford in a book published posthumously in September, 2011, \"Reflections on `The Concept of Law,\"' delineating the environment in which H. L. A. Hart had produced the classic of jurisprudence in the setting of Oxford linguistic philosophy.\n"}
{"id": "10129502", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10129502", "title": "Ahmet Şimşirgil", "text": "Ahmet Şimşirgil\n\nAhmet Şimşirgil (born 25 May 1959, in Sinop) is a Turkish academic. He is a professor of Ottoman history on the historical period which extends from the conquest of Istanbul in the Faculty of Science and Literature at the Marmara University.\n\nHe has prepared and published the memories of Barbarossa Hayreddin Pasha as \"Kaptan Paşa'nın Seyir Defteri\" (\"The Logbook of the Captain Pasha\") by Babıali Kültür Yayıncılığı, a Turkish publishing house based in Istanbul.\n\n"}
{"id": "23805411", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23805411", "title": "Aleksandar Stipčević", "text": "Aleksandar Stipčević\n\nAleksandar Stipčević (October 10, 1930 – September 1, 2015) was a Croatian-Albanian archeologist, bibliographer, librarian and historian who specialized in the study of the Illyrians.\n\nHis magnum opus is the 1974 book \"Iliri\" (\"the Illyrians\"), which has been translated into English, Italian and Albanian.\n\nHe was born in the village of Arbanasi near Zadar, Croatia (then Zara, Kingdom of Italy). He was a full professor at the University of Zagreb from 1987 until his retirement in 1997. He was a member of the Academy of Sciences and Arts of Kosovo.\n\nSome of them are translated to other languages.\n\nHe was the editor-in-chief of the second volume of the \"Croatian Biographical Lexicon\" (1983–1989).\n"}
{"id": "17210757", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17210757", "title": "Aleksej Jelačić", "text": "Aleksej Jelačić\n\nAleksej Jelačić (; , also sometimes written \"Aleksije\"; January 10, 1892 – October 24, 1941) was a Serbian historian.\n\nJelačić was born in Kiev to a family of South Slavic descent; reportedly his ancestors moved to Russia in the 18th century from the Habsburg Empire.\n\nHe became a senior lecturer at the Saint Vladimir University in Kiev. He emigrated to Yugoslavia in 1920 and earned his doctor of philosophy from the University of Ljubljana in 1924. He then became a professor at the University in Skopje.\n\nJelačić authored research on historical and literary themes including protopope Avvakum, Dostoevsky, the history of Russia, Russian revolution, and history of Czechoslovakia, Poland, and other Slavic countries.\n\nHe died in Belgrade in 1941.\n\n"}
{"id": "1870643", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1870643", "title": "Alexander the Great (1956 film)", "text": "Alexander the Great (1956 film)\n\nAlexander the Great is a 1956 epic historical drama film written, produced and directed by Robert Rossen about the life of Macedonian Greek general and king Alexander the Great. It was released by United Artists and stars Richard Burton as Alexander along with a large ensemble cast. Italian composer Mario Nascimbene contributed the film score.\n\nGreek statesman, Demosthenes of Athens is preparing for war to resist Greek king, Philip II of Macedon of his planned invasion and takeover of all city-states and kingdoms of Greece.\n\nWhile Philip II is leading a campaign to take over Olynthus, he is informed that his spouse Olympias has borne him a son who, she claims, is \"a god born of a god.\" Philip is angry because he suspects that Olympias has committed adultery and that she was not impregnated by a god; however, General Parmenio advises the king to let Alexander grow up and succeed him.\n\nWhile growing up, Alexander receives instruction in history, mathematics, logic and other subjects from Aristotle in Mieza. Alexander is eager to rule and tells his tutor that like Achilles he would rather have a \"short life with glory\" than a \"long life of obscurity.\" Philip then decides to send Alexander to the Macedonian capital, Pella, as a regent to rule the city while Philip is away fighting wars. This is done to prevent Olympias from spreading rumors about her husband's death. Alexander uses this opportunity to rule in his own right — he becomes neither a pawn of his mother nor his father. Alexander later joins Philip and they go on campaigns of conquest together to places such as Athens in the Battle of Chaeronea in 338 BCE. After the battle is won, Alexander demands that no Greek city-state ever bear arms against Pella and that they supply men, arms, and ships for the war against Persia.\n\nPhilip II divorces Olympias accusing her of \"unfaithfulness\" and marries Attalus's niece Eurydice, thereby making her the new queen. This move creates a chasm between Alexander and his father, not only because Alexander's mother has been repudiated but also because his succession hangs in the balance since some men in Philip's court see him as a bastard.\n\nPausanias, a loyal friend of Alexander, assassinates Philip II whereupon Alexander kills Pausanias then and there. At this juncture, Alexander claims the loyalty of all Macedonians and assumes the titles of his father. He tells the Macedonians that the Treaty of Corinth still stands. Memnon is exiled for not pledging his loyalty to Alexander.\n\nAlexander embarks on his mission to conquer the whole of Asia. Memnon, who is now in Darius III's court, advises him to retreat strategically and attack Alexander when his supplies run out. However, the lords of Persia underestimate the \"boy\" Alexander and resolve to fight him at Granicus.\n\nAfter the victory at Granicus, Alexander goes to Phrygia and unravels the knot tied by King Gordius by cutting it.\n\nBefore the battle in Babylon, Alexander states that the lunar eclipse which some of his men thought was a bad omen means that \"the Persian moon will be eclipsed by the Macedonian Sun\" with which Aristander the seer agrees. After victory in Babylon, Darius III flees to the Caspian Gates to build and gather up an army; the dispirited commanders of Darius III kill him. In his will, Darius tells Alexander, \"Take my daughter, Roxane, for your wife...that our worlds may become as one.\" Alexander then orders the lords of Persia that had committed regicide to be impaled upon stakes for their betrayal against their former kings.\n\nAt a drunken revelry in Babylon, Alexander declares, \"I am the son of God\" (Zeus) and \"the world is my domain...We will march to the end of the world.\" In Athens, news reaches that Alexander is in India and is conquering there whereupon Aeschines proclaims, \"He has outdone the gods.\"\n\nAlexander takes his status to heart, his arrogance and paranoia increasing to unstable proportions, but the bold young leader's conquests come to an end after he kills his close friend, Cleitus, with his spear following a drunken argument. Grief-stricken and humbled, Alexander returns to Babylon from India, losing many of his men in the process. He marries Roxane at Susa, but falls ill soon after. When asked upon his deathbed to whom he will leave his empire, Alexander whispers, \"To the strongest.\"\n\nCharlton Heston was sought for the title role, but turned it down, stating \"Alexander is the easiest kind of picture to make badly\". The decision to hire Richard Burton was later criticised as he looked too old for the part, despite being only 29 at the time. Alexander, who reigned from the age of 20 until his death at age 32, was supposed to be a teenager in the first hour of the film.\n\nDirector Robert Rossen shot the film to run for over three hours, complete with an intermission, and was hugely disappointed when the producers cut the film down to 141 minutes.\n\nThe film has a 'rotten' rating on Rotten Tomatoes of \"0%\" derived from seven reviews averaging 3.7 out of 10.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49014593", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49014593", "title": "Anatoly Moskvin", "text": "Anatoly Moskvin\n\nAnatoly Yurevych Moskvin (, born 1 September 1966) is a Russian academic and linguist from Nizhny Novgorod, Russia, who was arrested in 2011 after the mummified bodies of twenty-six girls between the ages of three and fifteen were discovered in his apartment. After exhuming the bodies from local graveyards, Moskvin mummified the bodies himself before dressing and posing them around his home. Moskvin's parents, who shared the apartment with him, had seen the mummies but had mistaken them for large dolls.\n\nAfter a psychiatric evaluation, it was determined that Moskvin suffered from a form of paranoid schizophrenia. In May 2012, Moskvin was sentenced to court-ordered psychiatric evaluation and has since been held in a psychiatric hospital.\n\nVladimir Stravinskas, the head of the Investigative Committee of the Russian Federation for the Nizhny Novgorod region, called the case exceptional and unparalleled in modern forensics.\n\nMoskvin lived in Nizhny Novgorod, the fifth largest city in Russia. Moskvin said he began wandering through cemeteries with friends when still a schoolboy. In particular, they visited the Krasnaya Etna Cemetery located in the Leninsky district of Nizhny Novgorod. In an article written shortly before his arrest, Moskvin explained his interest in the dead, attributing it to a childhood incident during which he witnessed a funeral procession for an eleven-year-old girl. Moskvin alleged that the participants forced him to kiss the dead girl's face, writing that \"an adult pushed my face down to the waxy forehead of the girl in an embroidered cap, and there was nothing I could do but kiss her as ordered.\"\n\nAfter graduating from the Philological faculty of Moscow State University Moskvin became well known in academic circles. His main areas of academic interests were Celtic history and folklore, as well as languages and linguistics. Moskvin also had a deep interest in cemeteries, burial rituals, death, and the occult. He also kept a personal library of over 60,000 books and documents, as well as a large collection of dolls. Fellow academics described him as both a genius and an eccentric.\n\nAs an adult, Moskvin led a secluded life. He never married or dated, instead preferring to live with his parents including his father, Yuri F. Moskvin. He abstained from drinking alcohol and smoking and is purportedly a virgin.\n\nIn 2016, it was reported that Moskvin was going to marry a 25 year old native of his hometown that attended his trial.\n\nA former lecturer in Celtic Studies at Nizhny Novgorod Linguistic University, Moskvin also previously worked at the Institute of Foreign Languages. A philologist, linguist and polyglot who spoke thirteen languages, Moskvin wrote several books, papers and translations, all well-known in academic circles. Moskvin also occasionally worked as a journalist and regularly contributed to local newspapers and publications. Describing himself as a \"necropolist\", Moskvin was considered an expert on local cemeteries in the Nizhny Novgorod region.\n\nIn 2005, Oleg Riabov, a fellow academic and publisher, commissioned Moskvin to summarize and list the dead in more than 700 cemeteries in forty regions of the Nizhny Novgorod Oblast. Moskvin claimed to have gone on foot to inspect 752 cemeteries across the region from 2005 to 2007, walking up to 30 km (18.6 miles) a day. During these travels, he drank from puddles, spent nights in haystacks and at abandoned farms, or slept in the cemeteries themselves, even going so far as to spend a night in a coffin being prepared for a funeral. Moskvin also claimed that on his extensive travels he was sometimes questioned by police on the suspicion of vandalism and theft, but that he was never arrested or reprimanded. The work itself remains unpublished but has been described as \"unique\" and \"priceless\" by Alexei Yesin, the editor of \"Necrologies\", a weekly paper to which Moskvin was a regular contributor. After Moskvin's arrest, Yesin stated that he was confident that there had been a mistake and Moskvin would soon be exonerated. He also told the Associated Press that Moskvin was a loner who had \"certain quirks\" but who had given no indication that he was up to anything unusual.\n\nBetween 2006 and 2010, Moskvin worked as a freelance correspondent for the newspaper \"Nizhny Novgorod Worker\", publishing articles twice a month. His father also sometimes wrote for the paper. During 2008, Moskvin wrote an extensive series of articles on the history of Nizhny Novgorod cemeteries that appeared in the paper.\n\nMoskvin was arrested on November 2, 2011 by police investigating a spate of grave desecrations in cemeteries in and around Nizhny Novgorod. Investigators from the Center for Combating Extremism discovered the twenty-six bodies (initially reported as twenty-nine) in Moskvin's flat and garage. Video released by police shows the bodies seated on shelves and sofas in small rooms full of books, papers and general clutter. Although only twenty-six bodies were discovered in his home, Moskvin was suspected of desecrating as many as 150 graves after police found numerous grave accoutrements such as metal nameplates removed from headstones. Police also discovered instructions for making the \"dolls\", maps of cemeteries in the region, and a collection of photographs and videos depicting open graves and disinterred bodies, though none of these photos or videos could be conclusively connected to bodies found in the apartment. According to the investigation, the bodies were removed from cemeteries in the Nizhny Novgorod region as well as cemeteries in Moscow and the surrounding region. Moskvin actively cooperated with investigators.\n\nAfter exhuming the corpses from their graves, Moskvin researched mummification theories and technique from books in an attempt to preserve the bodies. He dried the corpses using a combination of salt and baking soda and then cached the bodies in secure and dry places in and around cemeteries. Once the bodies were dried, he carried the bodies back to his home where he used various methods to make \"dolls\" of the corpses. Unable to prevent the bodies from withering and shrinking as they dried, he would wrap the limbs in strips of cloth to provide fullness, or he would stuff the bodies with rags and padding, sometimes adding wax masks decorated with nail polish over their faces before dressing them in brightly colored children's clothes and wigs. These details made the bodies appear to be large homemade dolls, which prevented their discovery by his parents. It was unclear if each dolls contained a full set of human remains. Moskvin claimed he made the dolls over the course of ten years. His parents, who were away for large portions of the year, were unaware of his activities.\n\nMoskvin was charged under Article 244 of the Criminal Code for the desecration of graves and dead bodies, a charge which carried up to five years in prison. Originally Moskvin was also accused of having defaced the graves of Muslims, but this charge was later dropped.\n\nAfter a psychiatric evaluation, it was determined that Moskvin suffered from a form of paranoid schizophrenia. In a hearing on 25 May 2012, the Leninsky District court of Nizhny Novgorod deemed Moskvin unfit to stand trial, releasing him from criminal liability. He was instead sentenced to \"coercive medical measures\". The prosecution was satisfied with the decision and did not appeal the verdict.\n\nMoskvin was removed to a psychiatric clinic, with his stay to be reviewed regularly. In February 2013, a hearing approved an extension of his psychiatric treatment. His treatment was again extended April 2014, and yet again in July 2015. In 2014 a spokesman stated, \"After three years of monitoring him in a psychiatric clinic, it is absolutely clear that Moskvin is not mentally fit for trial...He will therefore be kept for psychiatric treatment at the clinic.\" As of 2016, every request for the extension of Moskvin's treatment has been approved.\n\nMoskvin has stated that he felt great sympathy for the dead children and felt that they could be brought back to life by either science or black magic. He enclosed the remains in the dolls in an attempt to give them functional bodies to be used when he eventually discovered a way to bring them back to life, feeling that their physical remains were too decayed and ugly for them to feel comfortable or happy. Moskvin said that he was aware that he was committing a crime, but felt the dead children were \"calling out\" to him, begging to be rescued. He believed that rescuing the children was more important than obeying the law. He was also motivated by his own desire to have children, specifically a daughter. Moskvin often regretted that he never had children and at one point attempted to adopt a young girl against the wishes of his parents, but his application was declined due to his low income. Moskvin denied any sexual attraction to the dolls and instead considered them to be his children. He would talk to and interact with the corpses, sing songs to them, watch cartoons with them, and even hold birthday parties and celebrate holidays for their benefit.\n\nIn an interview after his arrest, Moskvin explained that as an expert on Celtic culture, he had learned that the ancient Druids slept on graves in order to communicate with spirits of their dead. He also studied the culture of the peoples of Siberia, in particular, the culture of the ancient Yakuts, and discovered they had a similar practice for communicating with the dead. Moskvin began searching for obituaries of recently dead children. When he found an obituary that \"spoke\" to him, he would sleep on her grave in order to determine if the child's spirit wished to be brought back to life. Moskvin claimed he had been doing this for around twenty years and insisted that when he began, he never dug up a grave without the permission of the child within. As he grew older, it became physically painful for him to sleep on the graves, so he began bringing the bodies home where it would be more comfortable to sleep near them. He hoped the spirits would be more willing to speak in a safe, welcoming home and that they might be easier for him to hear when they were no longer underground.\n\nPublications contributed to:\nDictionaries\nTranslations\nEssays/Chapters\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16958859", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16958859", "title": "Andrés Pérez de Ribas", "text": "Andrés Pérez de Ribas\n\nAndrés Pérez De Ribas (born at Cordova, Spain, 1576; died in Mexico, 26 March 1655) was a Spanish Jesuit missionary, and historian of north-western Mexico.\n\nHe joined the Society of Jesus in 1602, coming at once to America, and finishing his novitiate in Mexico in 1604. In the same year he was sent to undertake the Christianization of the Ahome and Suaqui of northern Sinaloa, of whom the former were friendly and anxious for teachers, while the latter had just been brought to submission after a hard campaign. Within a year he had both tribes gathered into towns, each with a church, while all of the Ahome and a large part of the Suaqui had been baptized. The two tribes together numbered about 10,000.\n\nIn 1613, being then superior of the Sinaloa district, he was instrumental in procuring the submission of a hostile mountain tribe. In 1617, in company with other Jesuit missionaries whom he had brought from Mexico City, he began the conversion of the powerful and largely hostile Yaqui tribe of Sonora, whose population was estimated at 30,000. Within a few years, most of them had been gathered into eight mission towns.\n\nIn 1620 Ribas was recalled to Mexico to assist in the college. He was ultimately appointed provincial, which post he held for several years. After a visit to Rome in 1643 to take part in the election of a general of the order, he devoted himself chiefly to study and writing until his death.\n\nHe left numerous works, religious and historical, most of which are still in manuscript, but his reputation as an historian rests upon his history of the Jesuit missions of Mexico published at Madrid in 1645, one year after its completion, under the title: \"Historia de los Triunfos de Nuestra Santa Fe entre gentes las más bárbaras ... conseguidos por los soldados de la milicia de Ia Compañía de Jesús en las misiones de la Provincia de Nueva-España\". Of this work Hubert Howe Bancroft says:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55617745", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55617745", "title": "Arthur H. Cole", "text": "Arthur H. Cole\n\nArthur H. Cole (1889–1974) was an economic historian and was the head of the Harvard University Business School's library. Cole created the Research Center in Entrepreneurial History that was addressed by Joseph Schumpeter, and that had as participants several graduate students who later went on to distinguished careers in economic history.\n\nHe graduated from Bowdoin College and Harvard University.\n"}
{"id": "5257176", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5257176", "title": "Bastion Point", "text": "Bastion Point\n\nBastion Point ( or ) is a coastal piece of land in Orakei, Auckland, New Zealand, overlooking the Waitematā Harbour. The area is significant in New Zealand history as the site of protests by Māori against forced land alienation by (non-Māori New Zealanders) in the late 1970s.\n\nThe land was occupied by Ngāti Whātua, and before the colonisation of New Zealand it was part of important lands for the (tribe), overlooking rich fishing and farming areas.\n\nThe surrounding land was bought or confiscated by the New Zealand Government for public works and development over a period stretching from the 1840s into the 1950s.\n\nIn 1885 the New Zealand Government built a military outpost at Kohimarama, or Bastion Point, because of its commanding strategic position overlooking the Waitematā Harbour. The outpost was not built on Takaparawha Point, which had earlier been taken by the Government for the same purpose. In 1886, the Crown used the Public Works Act 1882 (46 Vict No 37) to take ownership of of Bastion Point for this purpose of defence. When in 1941 the Crown no longer needed Bastion Point for defence, it did not return the land to its traditional Māori owners but instead gifted it to the Auckland City Council for a reserve. (This was the last of uncommitted land at Orakei that the Ngāti Whātua-o-Ōrākei still hoped to get back.) In 1976 the Crown announced that it planned to develop Bastion Point by selling it to the highest bidder for high-income housing. Joe Hawke, members of his , and other activists, formed the Orakei Māori Action Committee, taking direct action to stop the subdivision. In 1977–1978 the Orakei Māori Action Committee organised an occupation of the remaining Crown land, 2 days before construction of the housing was to start, to prevent its confiscation by the Muldoon Government. The occupiers constructed a and housing, and grew crops. A fire in one of the buildings caused the death of a young girl.\n\nThe occupation lasted for 507 days; it ended on 25 May 1978, when 800 police and personnel of the New Zealand Army forcibly removed the occupiers and destroyed the temporary buildings—including vegetable gardens and the . Two hundred and twenty two protesters were arrested. The occupation and the use of force to end it played a part in highlighting alleged injustices against Māori, and the occupation became a major landmark in the history of Māori protest.\n\nIn the 1980s New Zealand Government returned the land to Ngāti Whātua, with compensation, as part of a Treaty of Waitangi settlement process.\n\nIn 1980, filmmakers Merata Mita, Leon Narbey, and Gerd Pohlmann released a documentary, \"Bastion Point Day 507\", in support of the protest about the takeover of Māori land.\n\nThe point is the location of the Savage Memorial for the first Labour Prime Minister of New Zealand, Michael Joseph Savage (1872–1940).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52647051", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52647051", "title": "Bavarian State Office for Monument Protection", "text": "Bavarian State Office for Monument Protection\n\nThe Bavarian State Office for Monument Protection (), or BLfD, is the Bavarian central state authority for the protection of historical monuments. It is responsible for the conservation of both historic buildings as well as heritage sites and their archaeology.\n\n"}
{"id": "2711075", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2711075", "title": "Buxton Memorial Fountain", "text": "Buxton Memorial Fountain\n\nThe Buxton Memorial Fountain is a memorial and drinking fountain in London, the United Kingdom, that commemorates the emancipation of slaves in the British Empire in 1834.\n\nIt was commissioned by Charles Buxton MP, and was dedicated to his father Thomas Fowell Buxton along with William Wilberforce, Thomas Clarkson, Thomas Babington Macaulay, Henry Brougham and Stephen Lushington, all of whom were involved in the abolition. It was designed by Charles Buxton, who was himself an amateur architect, in collaboration with the neo-Gothic architect Samuel Sanders Teulon (1812–1873) in 1865, coincidentally with the passing of the Thirteenth Amendment to the United States Constitution, which effectively ended the western slave trade. The memorial was completed in February 1866.\n\nIt was originally constructed in Parliament Square, erected at a cost of £1,200. As part of the postwar redesign of the square it was removed in 1949 and not reinstated in its present position in Victoria Tower Gardens until 1957.\nThere were eight decorative figures of British rulers on it, but four were stolen in 1960 and four in 1971. They were replaced by fibreglass figures in 1980. By 2005 these were missing, and the fountain was no longer working. Between autumn 2006 and February 2007 restoration works were carried out. The restored fountain was unveiled on 27 March 2007 as part of the commemoration of the 200th anniversary of the act to abolish the slave trade.\n\nA memorial plaque commemorating the 150th anniversary of the Anti-Slavery Society was added in 1989.\n\nThe base is octagonal, about twelve feet in diameter, having open arches on the eight sides, supported on clustered shafts of polished Devonshire marble around a large central shaft, with four massive granite basins. Surmounting the pinnacles at the angles of the octagon are eight figures of bronze, representing the different rulers of England; the Britons represented by Caractacus, the Romans by Constantine, the Danes by Canute, the Saxons by Alfred, the Normans by William the Conqueror, and so on, ending with Queen Victoria. The fountain bears an inscription to the effect that it is \"intended as a memorial of those members of Parliament who, with Mr. Wilberforce, advocated the abolition of the British slave-trade, achieved in 1807; and of those members of Parliament who, with Sir T. Fowell Buxton, advocated the emancipation of the slaves throughout the British dominions, achieved in 1834. It was designed and built by Mr. Charles Buxton, M.P., in 1865, the year of the final extinction of the slave-trade and of the abolition of slavery in the United States.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "540271", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=540271", "title": "Colonies in antiquity", "text": "Colonies in antiquity\n\nColonies in antiquity were city-states founded from a mother-city (its \"metropolis\"), not from a territory-at-large. Bonds between a colony and its metropolis remained often close, and took specific forms. In general, colonies founded by Carthage, Rome, Alexander the Great and his successors remained tied to their metropolis, but Greek colonies of the Archaic and Classical eras were sovereign and self-governing from their inception. While Greek colonies were often founded to solve social unrest in the mother-city, by expelling a part of the population, Hellenistic, Roman, and Carthaginian colonies were used for empire-building.\n\nAn Egyptian colony that was stationed in southern Canaan dates to slightly before the First Dynasty. Narmer had Egyptian pottery produced in Canaan and exported back to Egypt, from regions such as Arad, En Besor, Rafiah, and Tel ʿErani. Shipbuilding was known to the ancient Egyptians as early as 3000 BC, and perhaps earlier. The Archaeological Institute of America reports that the earliest dated ship — dating to 3000 BC – may have possibly belonged to Pharaoh Aha.\n\nEgypt at its height controlled Crete across the Mediterranean Sea.\n\nThe Phoenicians were the major trading power in the Mediterranean in the early part of the first millennium BC. They had trading contacts in Egypt and Greece, and established colonies as far west as modern Spain, at Gadir (modern Cádiz).\n\nFrom Gadir the Phoenicians controlled access to the Atlantic Ocean and the trade routes to Britain. The most famous and successful of Phoenician colonies was founded by settlers from Tyre in 814–813 BC and called Kart-Hadasht (\"Qart-ḥadašt\", literally \"New Town\"), known to history as Carthage. The Carthaginians later founded their own colony in the southeast of Spain, Carthago Nova, which was eventually conquered by their enemy, Rome.\n\nAccording to María Eugenia Aubet, Professor of Archaeology at the Pompeu Fabra University, Barcelona: \"The earliest presence of Phoenician material in the West is documented within the precinct of the ancient city of Huelva, Spain... The high proportion of Phoenician pottery among the new material found in 1997 in the Plaza de las Monjas in Huelva argues in favor of a regular presence of Phoenician people from the start of the 9th century BC. The recent radiocarbon dates from the earliest levels in Carthage situate the founding of this Tyrian colony in the years 835–800 cal BC, which coincides with the dates handed down by Flavius Josephus and Timeus for the founding of the city.\" \n\nIn Ancient Greece a vanquished people would sometimes found a colony, leaving their homes to escape subjection at the hand of a foreign enemy; sometimes colonies formed as a sequel to civil disorders, when the losers in internecine battles left to form a new city elsewhere; sometimes to get rid of surplus population, and thereby to avoid internal convulsions; and sometimes as a result of ostracism. But in most cases colony-founders aimed to establish and facilitate relations of trade with foreign countries and to further the wealth of the mother-city (in Greek μητρόπολις \"mētropolis\"). Colonies were established in Ionia and Thrace as early as the 8th century BC. \n\nMore than thirty Greek city-states had multiple colonies. They became dotted across the Mediterranean world, with the most active colony-founding city, Miletus, of the Ionian League, spawning ninety colonies stretching throughout the Mediterranean Sea, from the shores of the Black Sea and Anatolia (modern Turkey) in the east, to the southern coast of the Iberian Peninsula in the west, as well as several colonies on the Libyan coast of northern Africa, from the late 9th to the 5th centuries BC.\n\nGreeks founded two similar types of colony, one known as an ἀποικία \"apoikía\" – a designation reflecting the Greek roots ἀπό (\"apó\" “away from”) + οἶκος (oîkos “home”) (pl.: ἀποικίαι \"apoikiai\") – and the other as an ἐμπόριov – \"emporion\" (pl.: ἐμπόρια \"emporia\"). The first type of colony was a city-state on its own; the second was a Greek trading-colony.\n\nThe Greek city-states began establishing colonies around 900 – 800 BC, at first at Al Mina on the coast of Syria and the Greek emporium Pithekoussai at Ischia in the Bay of Naples, both established about 800 BC by Euboeans.\nTwo waves of new colonists set out from Greece at the transition between the \"Dark Ages\" and the start of the Archaic Period – the first in the early 8th century BC and a second burst of the colonizing spirit in the 6th century. Population growth and cramped spaces at home seem an insufficient explanation, while the economical and political dynamics produced by the competitive spirit between the frequently kingless Greek city-states – newly introduced as a concept and striving to expand their spheres of economical influence – better fits as their true incentive. Through this Greek expansion the use of coins flourished throughout the Mediterranean Basin.\n\nInfluential Greek colonies in the western Mediterranean – many of them in today's Italy — included Cyme, Rhegium (Rhegion) by Chalcis and Zankle (c. 8th century), Syracuse by Corinth/Tenea (c. 734 BC), Naxos by Chalcis (c. 734 BC), Massalia (the later Marseille, France, c. 598 BC) and Agathe (shortly after Massalia) by Phokaia, Elea (Italy) and Emporion (present-day Spain) by Phokaia/Massalia (c. 540 BC and early 6th century), Antipolis (nowadays France) by Achaea, Alalia (Corsica) by Phokaia/Massalia (c. 545 BC) and Cyrene (Cyrenaica, present-day Libya) by Thera (762/61 and 632/31 BC).\n\nThe Greeks also colonised modern-day Crimea in the Black Sea. The settlements they established there included the city of Chersonesos, at the site of modern-day Sevastopol. Another area with significant Greek colonies was the coast of ancient Illyria on the Adriatic Sea (e.g. the ancient \"Aspalathos\", modern-day Split, Croatia).\nCicero remarks on the extensive Greek colonization, noting that \"It were as though a Greek fringe has been woven about the shores of the barbarians.\" Several formulae generally shaped the solemn and sacred occasions when a new colony set forth. If a Greek city decided to send out a colony, the citizenry almost invariably consulted an oracle, especially one such as the Oracle of Delphi, beforehand. Sometimes certain classes of citizens were called upon to take part in the enterprises; sometimes one son was chosen by lot from every house where there were several sons; and strangers expressing a desire to join were admitted. A person of distinction was selected to guide the emigrants and to make the necessary arrangements. It was usual to honor these founders of colonies, after their death, as heroes. Some of the sacred fire was taken from the public hearth in the Prytaneum, from which the fire on the public hearth of the new city was kindled. Just as each individual had his private shrines, so the new community maintained the worship of its chief domestic deities, the colony sending embassies and votive gifts to the mother-city's principal festivals for centuries afterwards.\n\nAfter the conquests of the Macedonian Kingdom and Alexander the Great, a further number of Hellenistic colonies were founded also in Asia (as far away as India), Europe and Africa.\n\nThe Mycenaeans Greeks by the 15th century BC had reached Rhodes, Crete, Cyprus, where Teucer is said to have founded the first colony, and the shores of Asia Minor. Moreover, Greeks were settled in Ionia and Pontus. Miletus in Ionia was an ancient Greek city on the western coast of Anatolia, near the mouth of the Maeander River. The Late Bronze Age, 13th century BC, saw the arrival in the area of Luwian language speakers from south central Anatolia calling themselves the Carians. Later in that century other Greeks arrived. The city at that time rebelled against the Hittites. After the fall of that empire the city was destroyed in the 12th century BC and starting about 1000 BC was resettled extensively by the Ionian Greeks. Before the invasion from Persia in the middle of the 6th century BC, Miletus was considered the greatest and wealthiest of Greek Polis. Over several centuries, numerous Ancient Greek city-states were established on the coasts of Anatolia. Greeks started Western philosophy on the western coast of Anatolia (Pre-Socratic philosophy). Thales, Anaximander, Anaximenes, Diogenes of Apollonia were among of the renowned Milesian school philosophers. Heraclitus lived in Ephesus (/ˈɛfəsəs/;[1] Greek: Ἔφεσος Ephesos; Turkish: Efes) another ancient Greek city and Anaxagoras was from Clazomenae, a city on the coast of Ionia and a member of the Ionian League. All Ancient Greek dialects were spoken in Anatolia depending on the origin of the City states and the list of ancient Greek theatres in Anatolia is one of the longest among all places Greeks had settled. In Pontus, Greeks traditionally lived in the region of Pontus, on the shores of today's Turkey's Black Sea and in the Pontic Alps, in northeastern Anatolia and the former Armenian province of Kars in Caucasus, and also in Georgia. Those from southern Russia, the Ukraine, and Crimea are often referred to as 'Northern Pontic Greeks', in contrast to those from 'South Pontus', which strictly speaking is Pontus proper. Those from Georgia, northeastern Anatolia, and the ones who lived in present-day Armenia are often referred to as 'Eastern Pontic Greeks' or Caucasus Greeks. The Greeks have founded well known cities to this day. The cities of Sinope (Greek: Σινώπη, Sinōpē) and Trabzon (Greek: Τραπεζοῦς Trapezous), were founded by Milesian traders (756 BC) as well as Samsun, Rize and Amasya. Greek was the lingua franca of Anatolia from the conquests of Alexander the Great up to the invasion of the Seljuk Turks in the eleventh century AD.\n\nThe relation between colony and mother-city, known literally as the \"metropolis\", was viewed as one of mutual affection. Any differences that arose were resolved by peaceful means whenever possible, war being deemed excusable only in cases of extreme necessity. (Note though that the Peloponnesian War of 431 -404 BC broke out in part as a result of a dispute between Corinth and her colony of Corcyra (Corfu).) The charter of foundation contained general provisions for the arrangement of the affairs of the colony, and also some special enactments. A colony would usually adopt the constitution of the mother-city, but the new city remained politically independent. The \"holy fire\" of the \"metropolis\" was preserved in a special place to remind people of the common ties. If the colony sent out a fresh colony on its own account, the mother-city was generally consulted, or was at least requested to furnish a leader. Frequently the colonies, declaring their commitment to the various metropolitic alliances formed in the Greek mainland and for religious reasons, would pay tribute in religious centres, like Delphi, Olympia or Delos.\n\nThe cleruchs (κληροῦχοι, \"klêrouchoi\") formed a special class of Greek colonists, each being assigned an individual plot of land (κλῆρος, \"klêros\") in the place to which they had been assigned. The trade factories set up in foreign countries, such as Egypt, were somewhat different from the ordinary colonies, the members retaining the right of domicile in their own homeland and confining themselves to their own quarter in the foreign city.\n\nIt was an old custom in ancient Italy to send out colonies for the purpose of securing new conquests. The Romans, having no standing army, used to plant bodies of their own citizens in conquered towns as a kind of garrison. These bodies would consist partly of Roman citizens, usually to the number of three hundred; partly of members of the Latin League, in larger numbers. The third part of the conquered territory was handed over to the settlers. The \"coloniae civium Romanorum\" (colonies of Roman citizens) were specially intended to secure the two seacoasts of Italy, and were hence called \"coloniae maritimae\". The \"coloniae Latinae\", of which there was a far greater number, served the same purpose for the mainland.\n\nThe duty of leading the colonists and founding the settlement was entrusted to a commission usually consisting of three members. These men continued to stand in the relation of patrons (\"patroni\") to the colony after its foundation. The colonists entered the conquered city in military array, preceded by banners, and the foundation was celebrated with special solemnities. The coloniae were free from taxes, and had their own constitution, a copy of the Roman, electing from their own body their Senate and other officers of State. To this constitution the original inhabitants had to submit. The \"coloniae civium Romanorum\" retained Roman citizenship, and were free from military service, their position as outposts being regarded as an equivalent. The members of the \"coloniae Latinae\" served among the \"socii\", the allies, and possessed the so-called \"ius Latinum\" or Latinitas. This secured to them the right of acquiring property, the concept of \"commercium\", and the right of settlement in Rome, and under certain conditions the power of becoming Roman citizens; though in course of time these rights underwent many limitations.\n\nFrom the time of the Gracchi the colonies lost their military character. Colonization came to be regarded as a means of providing for the poorest class of the Roman Plebs. After the time of Sulla it was adopted as a way of granting land to veteran soldiers. The right of founding colonies was taken away from the people by Julius Caesar, and passed into the hands of the Roman emperors, who used it mainly in the provinces for the exclusive purpose of establishing military settlements, partly with the old idea of securing conquered territory. It was only in exceptional cases that the provincial colonies enjoyed the immunity from taxation which was granted to those in Italy.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17577092", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17577092", "title": "Cornelia Adair", "text": "Cornelia Adair\n\nCornelia Wadsworth Ritchie Adair (April 6, 1837 – September 22, 1921) was the American born matriarch of Glenveagh Castle in County Donegal, Ireland, now an Irish national park. Cornelia Adair was born to privilege in the United States, became a British subject, lived much of her life in Ireland, but also maintained residence on the JA Ranch of Amarillo in the Texas Panhandle, a still-active cattle ranch, and in Clarendon, the seat of Donley County, Texas. She is also remembered for having become a naturalised British subject and as a published diarist.\n\nThough she could not vote in the United States, Cornelia Adair was active in the Republican Party, to which her family had been devoted since its founding in 1854. A noted philanthropist, Cornelia is known for inviting Belgian refugees to stay at Glenveagh Castle during World War I.\n\nCornelia was the second of six children born to a prominent couple, future General James Samuel Wadsworth, Sr. (1807–1864), and the former Mary Craig Wharton (1811–1872). Though she was born in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, the Wadsworth family lived at the Hartford House estate in the village of Geneseo in Livingston County in western New York. Among her siblings was brother James Wolcott Wadsworth, father of U.S. Senator James W. Wadsworth Jr., and sister, Elizabeth Wadsworth, who married Arthur Smith-Barry, 1st Baron Barrymore in 1889, becoming Lady Barrymore.\n\nIn 1855, the Wadsworths travelled to England and France on a two-year sojourn.\n\nOn their return in 1857, Cornelia married Montgomery Harrison Ritchie of Boston, Massachusetts, a descendant of Federalist Party leader Harrison Gray Otis. The Ritchies had two sons, Arthur Ritchie, who died in childhood, and James Wadsworth \"Jack\" Ritchie (1861–1924), who outlived his mother by only three years.\n\nHer husband fought in North Carolina in 1862 in the American Civil War under Union Army General Ambrose E. Burnside. In 1864, he entered a battlefield to retrieve her father, General Wadsworth, who was mortally wounded in the head in the Battle of the Wilderness in Virginia. Ritchie brought Wadsworth's body to Geneseo for burial. Not long afterwards, Ritchie himself died of an illness contracted in battle and was also interred in Geneseo.\n\nWidowed with her two young sons, Cornelia decided to have the children educated in Paris. On returning to the United States, she attended a Republican political reception in New York. The Ritchie family was staunchly Republican from 1854, when the party was established. At the gathering, she first met John George Adair, a Scottish-Irish businessman and landowner from County Donegal. The two married in 1869 and lived in Ireland, in Great Britain, and in New York City, where Adair, also known as \"Jack Adair\", opened a brokerage house.\n\nAdair disliked living in New York City and wished to see the American West. For a time he established his brokerage firm in Denver, Colorado. In 1874, the Adairs joined a buffalo hunt along the South Platte River in Nebraska and northeastern Colorado. Cornelia's brother had served as an aide to General Philip H. Sheridan, and, according to Nancy Baker Jones in \"The Handbook of Texas\", Cornelia may have used Sheridan's influence to obtain a military escort under Colonel Richard Irving Dodge to accompany the party, which departed from Sidney in Cheyenne County in western Nebraska. Cornelia kept a diary (published 1918) of the two-month journey, which included details of a meeting near the South Platte of cavalry officers and Oglala Sioux.\n\nIn the summer of 1877, the Adairs partnered with the Texas cattleman Charles Goodnight, who told them about the Palo Duro Canyon country where cattle could graze in abundance in summers, with adequate grass and water, and then winter under the protection of the canyon walls. Goodnight drove the first herd of cattle to the Palo Duro, part of a larger landscape known as the Llano Estacado, or \"Staked Plains\" of the Texas Panhandle. The most prominent feature of the JA is the canyon on the southwest. In the centr of the ranch is a large plain. To the east are the rolling hills of Mulberry and Halls Creek. To the north is the Caprock.\n\nIn their contract, John Adair put up two-thirds of the capital to establish the ranch, and Goodnight was able to borrow his one-third at 10 percent interest from Adair as well as supply the initial cattle. The Adairs rarely stayed at the ranch, because of their other properties in England and Ireland. The ranch still bears Adair's initials, the JA. Goodnight and Adair signed two five-year contracts. In 1885, Adair died of natural causes while he was in St. Louis. At the time, he was returning with a servant to Ireland. Cornelia, who did not accompany Adair on that trip, had his body returned for burial in the Protestant Church graveyard at Killenard Co. Laois, Ireland.\n\nAfter John Adair's death, despite the distance and difficulty of travel at the time, Cornelia took an active interest in the JA and divided her time between the ranch, the castle in Ireland, and the house in England. She insisted that Goodnight pay high wages and recruit only upstanding cowboys.\n\nSometimes, she questioned Goodnight's judgment in the management of the ranch. For instance, she hired John Edward Farrington as the manager after Goodnight withdrew from their arrangement even though Goodnight had specifically trained Henry Webster Taylor, Goodnight's nephew, as his successor. As the first JA manager, Goodnight had quarrelled with Cornelia's son, Jack, whom he claimed to have caught drinking alcohol and shooting craps with the cowboys in violation of the JA's strict code of ethics. Goodnight demoted Jack Ritchie, who moved to New York City and sold JA horses to the New York Police Department. In 1887, she traded the Quitaque Ranch for Goodnight's one-third interest in the JA, a share that comprised , 48,000 cattle as well as mules, horses, and rights to the JA brand.\n\nIn 1911, while she was in London, Cornelia came upon her nephew, James Wolcott Wadsworth, Jr., then a former Speaker of the New York Assembly. She persuaded Wadsworth to take the vacant position of JA manager. He agreed, but after four years left again in 1915, having been elected in 1914 as a Republican to the United States Senate from New York, the first class elected under the Seventeenth Amendment to the United States Constitution.\n\nOne of the JA managers was Timothy Dwight Hobart, a Vermont native whose experience was more in real estate than in raising cattle. He had surveyed the five million acres (20,000 km²) of the New York and Texas Land Company in Mobeetie, one of the first three settlements in the Panhandle. He was affiliated with the White Deer Land Company in Pampa in Gray County. He was also a president of the Texas and Southwestern Cattle Raisers Association. Cornelia trusted him to be co-executor of her estate, of which there were many outstanding debts, not settled for two decades. Hobart was elected mayor of Pampa in 1927 but served only a few months.\n\nBeing a naturalised British subject who spent most of her time in Ireland, Cornelia maintained a home in Clarendon n Donley County, away from the ranch. She contributed generously to various civic projects about the JA Ranch, which by the time of her death covered half a million acres (4,000 km²). She provided funds to build the Adair Hospital, later the Saints' Roost Museum in Clarendon. She contributed to the first Young Men's Christian Association building and to the Episcopal Church in Clarendon.\n\nCornelia Adair died just days before she was planning another trip to the Texas Panhandle. Her passing had a profound effect on her Texas friends. A memorial service was held in Clarendon on the same day as her funeral in Ireland. Among the mourners was the 85-year-old Goodnight who said that except for the passing of his mother and former partner Oliver Loving no other death had so affected him as that of Mrs. Adair's. Hobart called her \"one of the noblest characters I have ever known.\" Lester Fields Sheffy, Hobart's biographer, wrote that Mrs. Adair \"loved the prairies, its hills and canyons, and its vast herds She held in highest esteem the hundreds of people who had been connected with her in this great ranching enterprise. She frequently [had] expressed a desire that her last resting place might be in the little cemetery near the [ranch] headquarters.\" Instead, she was interred next to Adair at the Killenard Churchyard in Ireland.\n\nGlenveagh was completed between 1867 and 1873. After Cornelia inherited the estate, she added a new wing and round tower to the building. She planted Scots Pine and rhododendron in her garden. Before he married Cornelia, John Adair had become notorious for having driven poor tenants off the land to improve the aesthetic beauty of Glenveagh. Cornelia though was renowned as a kind landlady and a benefactor. During World War I, she used the castle to house wounded Belgian soldiers and refugees.\n\nA personal friend of Lord Baden-Powell, Cornelia donated generously to establish the Boy Scouts. In the years after Cornelia's death, Glenveagh fell into disrepair. In 1984, it became an Irish national park.\n\nTimothy Dwight Hobart had great difficulty with the British government and the State of Texas in disposing of Mrs. Adair's property. The governments demanded tax payments which could be raised only with the sale of parts of the ranch at a time when the market for beef prices was particularly poor. The British demands required Hobart to make several trips abroad to explain the situation to the government agents. Hobart said his greatest concern was in meeting the needs of Mrs. Adair's heirs. He also tried to honor her wishes that the ranch be sold in small parcels to settlers, a processed that dragged on for many years. He hoped petroleum would be found on Adair lands to ease in the financial consideration in the disposal of the property.\n\nIn 1935, after Hobart's death, the management of the JA passed to Mrs. Adair's grandson, Montgomery Harrison Wadsworth Ritchie, son of Jack Rithie. He managed the ranch, along with another spread in Colorado, until his retirement in 1993. The ranch then passed to Montie Ritchie's daughter, Cornelia Wadsworth \"Nina\" Ritchie, later the first wife of Republican Texas State Senator Teel Bivins of Amarillo, from whom she was divorced. Andrew M. Bivins, the son of Teel and Nina Bivins, since joined the JA management team. Teel Bivins served prior to his death in 2006 as US Ambassador to Sweden during the second administration of U.S. President George W. Bush.\n\nAn American Quarter Horse was named in 1940 in honour of Cornelia Adair.\n\nOn April 10, 2015, the West Texas Historical Association, at its 92nd annual meeting in Amarillo, presented a program at Amarillo College on the life of Cornelia Adair. The presentations include \"Early Years and Marriages\" by William Green of Canyon, and from three from West Texas A&M University in Canyon: Dollie Lookingbill, \"Cornelia Out West: A Hunting Trip and the Formation of the JA Partnership\"; Maureen Hubbart, \"The Timothy Dwight Hobart Letters: Cornelia Adair's Management of the JA Ranch\", and Allen Hunt, \"Cornelia's Transatlantic Connections: The Later Years\".\n\n"}
{"id": "18844933", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18844933", "title": "Corpus Speculorum Etruscorum", "text": "Corpus Speculorum Etruscorum\n\nCorpus Speculorum Etruscorum is an international project with the goal to publish all existing Etruscan bronze mirrors. The first three volumes were published in 1981. A total of thirty-four fascicles has been produced.\n\nThe first major systematic study of Etruscan mirror was Eduard Gerhard's \"Etruskische Spiegel\". The work consists of five volumes published between 1843 and 1897 (the final volume being published after Gerhard's death). In 1973 a decision was made to make a new publication that could replace Gerhard's outdated work.\n\nDeutsche Demokratische Republik\n\nBundesrepublik Deutschland\n\n1. CSE Hongrie, Tchécoslovaquie. J.G. Szilágyi and Jan Bouzek. 1992. \n\n1. CSE Polonia 1. W. Dobrowolski. 2016. \n\n1. CSE Schweiz 1. Basel, Schaffhausen, Bern, Lausanne. Ines Jucker. 2001. \n\n1. CSE Stato della Città del Vaticano 1. Città del Vaticano, Museo Profano della Biblioteca Apostolica Vaticana; Rome, Collezione di antichità dell'Abbazia di San Paolo fuori le mura. Roger Lambrechts. 1995.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5326", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5326", "title": "Creationism", "text": "Creationism\n\nCreationism is the religious belief that the universe and life originated \"from specific acts of divine creation\", as opposed to the scientific conclusion that they came about through natural processes. Creationism covers a spectrum of views including \"evolutionary creationism\", a theological variant of theistic evolution which asserts that both evolutionary science and a belief in creation are true, but the term is commonly used for literal creationists who reject various aspects of science, and instead promote pseudoscientific beliefs.\n\nLiteral creationists base their beliefs on a fundamentalist reading of religious texts, including the creation myths found in Genesis and the Quran. For young Earth creationists, these beliefs are based on a literalist interpretation of the Genesis creation narrative and rejection of the scientific theory of evolution. Literalist creationists believe that evolution cannot adequately account for the history, diversity, and complexity of life on Earth. Pseudoscientific branches of creationism include creation science, flood geology, and intelligent design, as well as subsets of pseudoarchaeology, pseudohistory, and pseudolinguistics.\n\nThe first use of the term \"creationist\" to describe a proponent of creationism is found in an 1856 letter of Charles Darwin describing those who objected on religious grounds to the then emerging science of evolution.\n\nThe basis for many creationists' beliefs is a literal or quasi-literal interpretation of the Old Testament, especially from stories from the book of Genesis:\n\n\nA further important element is the interpretation of the Biblical chronology, the elaborate system of life-spans, \"generations,\" and other means by which the Bible measures the passage of events from the creation (Genesis 1:1) to the Book of Daniel, the last biblical book in which it appears. Recent decades have seen attempts to de-link creationism from the Bible and recast it as science; these include creation science and intelligent design. There are also non-Christian forms of creationism, notably Islamic creationism and Hindu creationism.\n\nSeveral attempts have been made to categorize the different types of creationism, and create a \"taxonomy\" of creationists. Creationism (broadly construed) covers a spectrum of beliefs which have been categorized into the general types listed below.\n\nYoung Earth creationists such as Ken Ham and Doug Phillips believe that God created the Earth within the last ten thousand years, literally as described in the Genesis creation narrative, within the approximate time-frame of biblical genealogies (detailed for example in the Ussher chronology). Most young Earth creationists believe that the universe has a similar age as the Earth. A few assign a much older age to the universe than to Earth. Creationist cosmologies give the universe an age consistent with the Ussher chronology and other young Earth time frames. Other young Earth creationists believe that the Earth and the universe were created with the appearance of age, so that the world appears to be much older than it is, and that this appearance is what gives the geological findings and other methods of dating the Earth and the universe their much longer timelines.\n\nThe Christian organizations Institute for Creation Research (ICR) and the Creation Research Society (CRS) both promote young Earth creationism in the US. Another organization with similar views, Answers in Genesis (AiG)—based in both the U.S. and the United Kingdom—has opened the Creation Museum in Petersburg, Kentucky, to promote young Earth creationism. Creation Ministries International promotes young Earth views in Australia, Canada, South Africa, New Zealand, the US, and the UK. Among Roman Catholics, the Kolbe Center for the Study of Creation promotes similar ideas. In 2007, Ken Ham founded the Creation Museum and Ark Encounter in northern Kentucky.\n\nOld Earth creationism holds that the physical universe was created by God, but that the creation event described in the Book of Genesis is to be taken figuratively. This group generally believes that the age of the universe and the age of the Earth are as described by astronomers and geologists, but that details of modern evolutionary theory are questionable.\n\nOld Earth creationism itself comes in at least three types:\n\nGap creationism, also called \"restoration creationism,\" holds that life was recently created on a pre-existing old Earth. This version of creationism relies on a particular interpretation of . It is considered that the words \"formless\" and \"void\" in fact denote waste and ruin, taking into account the original Hebrew and other places these words are used in the Old Testament. Genesis 1:1–2 is consequently translated:\n\nThus, the six days of creation (verse 3 onwards) start sometime after the Earth was \"without form and void.\" This allows an indefinite \"gap\" of time to be inserted after the original creation of the universe, but prior to the creation according to Genesis, (when present biological species and humanity were created). Gap theorists can therefore agree with the scientific consensus regarding the age of the Earth and universe, while maintaining a literal interpretation of the biblical text.\n\nSome gap creationists expand the basic version of creationism by proposing a \"primordial creation\" of biological life within the \"gap\" of time. This is thought to be \"the world that then was\" mentioned in 2 Peter 3:3–7. Discoveries of fossils and archaeological ruins older than 10,000 years are generally ascribed to this \"world that then was,\" which may also be associated with Lucifer's rebellion. These views became popular with publications of Hebrew Lexicons such as \"Strong's Concordance\", and Bible commentaries such as the \"Scofield Reference Bible\" and \"The Companion Bible\".\n\nDay-age creationism states that the \"six days\" of the Book of Genesis are not ordinary 24-hour days, but rather much longer periods (for instance, each \"day\" could be the equivalent of millions, or billions of years of human time). The physicist Gerald Schroeder is one such proponent of this view. This version of creationism often states that the Hebrew word \"yôm,\" in the context of Genesis 1, can be properly interpreted as \"age.\"\n\nStrictly speaking, day-age creationism is not so much a version of creationism as a hermeneutic option which may be combined with other versions of creationism such as progressive creationism.\n\nProgressive creationism holds that species have changed or evolved in a process continuously guided by God, with various ideas as to how the process operated—though it is generally taken that God directly intervened in the natural order at key moments in Earth history. This view accepts most of modern physical science including the age of the Earth, but rejects much of modern evolutionary biology or looks to it for evidence that evolution by natural selection alone is incorrect. Organizations such as Reasons To Believe, founded by Hugh Ross, promote this version of creationism.\n\nProgressive creationism can be held in conjunction with hermeneutic approaches to the Genesis creation narrative such as the day-age creationism or framework/metaphoric/poetic views.\n\nCreation science, or initially scientific creationism, is a pseudoscience that emerged in the 1960s with proponents aiming to have young Earth creationist beliefs taught in school science classes as a counter to teaching of evolution. Common features of creation science argument include: creationist cosmologies which accommodate a universe on the order of thousands of years old, criticism of radiometric dating through a technical argument about radiohalos, explanations for the fossil record as a record of the Genesis flood narrative (see flood geology), and explanations for the present diversity as a result of pre-designed genetic variability and partially due to the rapid degradation of the perfect genomes God placed in \"created kinds\" or \"Baramin\" (see creationist biology) due to mutations.\n\nNeo-creationism is a pseudoscientific movement which aims to restate creationism in terms more likely to be well received by the public, by policy makers, by educators and by the scientific community. It aims to re-frame the debate over the origins of life in non-religious terms and without appeals to scripture. This comes in response to the 1987 ruling by the United States Supreme Court in \"Edwards v. Aguillard\" that creationism is an inherently religious concept and that advocating it as correct or accurate in public-school curricula violates the Establishment Clause of the First Amendment.\n\nOne of the principal claims of neo-creationism propounds that ostensibly objective orthodox science, with a foundation in naturalism, is actually a dogmatically atheistic religion. Its proponents argue that the scientific method excludes certain explanations of phenomena, particularly where they point towards supernatural elements, thus effectively excluding religious insight from contributing to understanding the universe. This leads to an open and often hostile opposition to what neo-creationists term \"Darwinism\", which they generally mean to refer to evolution, but which they may extend to include such concepts as abiogenesis, stellar evolution and the Big Bang theory.\n\nUnlike their philosophical forebears, neo-creationists largely do not believe in many of the traditional cornerstones of creationism such as a young Earth, or in a dogmatically literal interpretation of the Bible.\n\nIntelligent design (ID) is the pseudoscientific view that \"certain features of the universe and of living things are best explained by an intelligent cause, not an undirected process such as natural selection.\" All of its leading proponents are associated with the Discovery Institute, a think tank whose Wedge strategy aims to replace the scientific method with \"a science consonant with Christian and theistic convictions\" which accepts supernatural explanations. It is widely accepted in the scientific and academic communities that intelligent design is a form of creationism, and is sometimes referred to as \"intelligent design creationism.\"\n\nID originated as a re-branding of creation science in an attempt to avoid a series of court decisions ruling out the teaching of creationism in American public schools, and the Discovery Institute has run a series of campaigns to change school curricula. In Australia, where curricula are under the control of state governments rather than local school boards, there was a public outcry when the notion of ID being taught in science classes was raised by the Federal Education Minister Brendan Nelson; the minister quickly conceded that the correct forum for ID, if it were to be taught, is in religious or philosophy classes.\n\nIn the US, teaching of intelligent design in public schools has been decisively ruled by a federal district court to be in violation of the Establishment Clause of the First Amendment to the United States Constitution. In Kitzmiller v. Dover, the court found that intelligent design is not science and \"cannot uncouple itself from its creationist, and thus religious, antecedents,\" and hence cannot be taught as an alternative to evolution in public school science classrooms under the jurisdiction of that court. This sets a persuasive precedent, based on previous US Supreme Court decisions in \"Edwards v. Aguillard\" and \"Epperson v. Arkansas\" (1968), and by the application of the Lemon test, that creates a legal hurdle to teaching intelligent design in public school districts in other federal court jurisdictions.\n\nIn astronomy, the geocentric model (also known as geocentrism, or the Ptolemaic system), is a description of the Cosmos where Earth is at the orbital center of all celestial bodies. This model served as the predominant cosmological system in many ancient civilizations such as ancient Greece. As such, they assumed that the Sun, Moon, stars, and naked eye planets circled Earth, including the noteworthy systems of Aristotle (see Aristotelian physics) and Ptolemy.\n\nArticles arguing that geocentrism was the biblical perspective appeared in some early creation science newsletters associated with the Creation Research Society pointing to some passages in the Bible, which, when taken literally, indicate that the daily apparent motions of the Sun and the Moon are due to their actual motions around the Earth rather than due to the rotation of the Earth about its axis for example, Joshua 10:12 where the Sun and Moon are said to stop in the sky, and Psalms 93:1 where the world is described as immobile. Contemporary advocates for such religious beliefs include Robert Sungenis, co-author of the self-published \"Galileo Was Wrong: The Church Was Right\" (2006). These people subscribe to the view that a plain reading of the Bible contains an accurate account of the manner in which the universe was created and requires a geocentric worldview. Most contemporary creationist organizations reject such perspectives.\n\nThe Omphalos hypothesis argues that in order for the world to be functional, God must have created a mature Earth with mountains and canyons, rock strata, trees with growth rings, and so on; therefore \"no\" evidence that we can see of the presumed age of the Earth and age of the universe can be taken as reliable. The idea has seen some revival in the 20th century by some modern creationists, who have extended the argument to address the \"starlight problem\". The idea has been criticised as Last Thursdayism, and on the grounds that it requires a deliberately deceptive creator.\n\nTheistic evolution, or evolutionary creation, is a belief that \"the personal God of the Bible created the universe and life through evolutionary processes.\" According to the American Scientific Affiliation:\n\nThrough the 19th century the term \"creationism\" most commonly referred to direct creation of individual souls, in contrast to traducianism. Following the publication of \"Vestiges of the Natural History of Creation\", there was interest in ideas of Creation by divine law. In particular, the liberal theologian Baden Powell argued that this illustrated the Creator's power better than the idea of miraculous creation, which he thought ridiculous. When \"On the Origin of Species\" was published, the cleric Charles Kingsley wrote of evolution as \"just as noble a conception of Deity.\" Darwin's view at the time was of God creating life through the laws of nature, and the book makes several references to \"creation,\" though he later regretted using the term rather than calling it an unknown process. In America, Asa Gray argued that evolution is the secondary effect, or \"modus operandi\", of the first cause, design, and published a pamphlet defending the book in theistic terms, \"Natural Selection not inconsistent with Natural Theology\". Theistic evolution, also called, evolutionary creation, became a popular compromise, and St. George Jackson Mivart was among those accepting evolution but attacking Darwin's naturalistic mechanism. Eventually it was realised that supernatural intervention could not be a scientific explanation, and naturalistic mechanisms such as neo-Lamarckism were favoured as being more compatible with purpose than natural selection.\n\nSome theists took the general view that, instead of faith being in opposition to biological evolution, some or all classical religious teachings about Christian God and creation are compatible with some or all of modern scientific theory, including specifically evolution; it is also known as \"evolutionary creation.\" In Evolution versus Creationism, Eugenie Scott and Niles Eldredge state that it is in fact a type of evolution.\n\nIt generally views evolution as a tool used by God, who is both the first cause and immanent sustainer/upholder of the universe; it is therefore well accepted by people of strong theistic (as opposed to deistic) convictions. Theistic evolution can synthesize with the day-age creationist interpretation of the Genesis creation narrative; however most adherents consider that the first chapters of the Book of Genesis should not be interpreted as a \"literal\" description, but rather as a literary framework or allegory.\n\nFrom a theistic viewpoint, the underlying laws of nature were designed by God for a purpose, and are so self-sufficient that the complexity of the entire physical universe evolved from fundamental particles in processes such as stellar evolution, life forms developed in biological evolution, and in the same way the origin of life by natural causes has resulted from these laws.\n\nIn one form or another, theistic evolution is the view of creation taught at the majority of mainline Protestant seminaries. For Roman Catholics, human evolution is not a matter of religious teaching, and must stand or fall on its own scientific merits. Evolution and the Roman Catholic Church are not in conflict. The Catechism of the Catholic Church comments positively on the theory of evolution, which is neither precluded nor required by the sources of faith, stating that scientific studies \"have splendidly enriched our knowledge of the age and dimensions of the cosmos, the development of life-forms and the appearance of man.\" Roman Catholic schools teach evolution without controversy on the basis that scientific knowledge does not extend beyond the physical, and scientific truth and religious truth cannot be in conflict. Theistic evolution can be described as \"creationism\" in holding that divine intervention brought about the origin of life or that divine laws govern formation of species, though many creationists (in the strict sense) would deny that the position is creationism at all. In the creation–evolution controversy, its proponents generally take the \"evolutionist\" side. This sentiment was expressed by Fr. George Coyne, (the Vatican's chief astronomer between 1978 and 2006):...in America, creationism has come to mean some fundamentalistic, literal, scientific interpretation of Genesis. Judaic-Christian faith is radically creationist, but in a totally different sense. It is rooted in a belief that everything depends upon God, or better, all is a gift from God.\n\nWhile supporting the methodological naturalism inherent in modern science, the proponents of theistic evolution reject the implication taken by some atheists that this gives credence to ontological materialism. In fact, many modern philosophers of science, including atheists, refer to the long-standing convention in the scientific method that observable events in nature should be explained by natural causes, with the distinction that it does not assume the actual existence or non-existence of the supernatural. \n\n, most Christians around the world accepted evolution as the most likely explanation for the origins of species, and did not take a literal view of the Genesis creation myth. The United States is an exception where belief in religious fundamentalism is much more likely to affect attitudes towards evolution than it is for believers elsewhere. Political partisanship affecting religious belief may be a factor because political partisanship in the US is highly correlated with fundamentalist thinking, unlike in Europe.\n\nMost contemporary Christian leaders and scholars from mainstream churches, such as Anglicans and Lutherans, consider that there is no conflict between the spiritual meaning of creation and the science of evolution. According to the former Archbishop of Canterbury, Rowan Williams, \"...for most of the history of Christianity, and I think this is fair enough, most of the history of the Christianity there's been an awareness that a belief that everything depends on the creative act of God, is quite compatible with a degree of uncertainty or latitude about how precisely that unfolds in creative time.\"\n\nLeaders of the Anglican and Roman Catholic churches have made statements in favor of evolutionary theory, as have scholars such as the physicist John Polkinghorne, who argues that evolution is one of the principles through which God created living beings. Earlier supporters of evolutionary theory include Frederick Temple, Asa Gray and Charles Kingsley who were enthusiastic supporters of Darwin's theories upon their publication, and the French Jesuit priest and geologist Pierre Teilhard de Chardin saw evolution as confirmation of his Christian beliefs, despite condemnation from Church authorities for his more speculative theories. Another example is that of Liberal theology, not providing any creation models, but instead focusing on the symbolism in beliefs of the time of authoring Genesis and the cultural environment.\n\nMany Christians and Jews had been considering the idea of the creation history as an allegory (instead of historical) long before the development of Darwin's theory of evolution. For example, Philo, whose works were taken up by early Church writers, wrote that it would be a mistake to think that creation happened in six days, or in any set amount of time. Augustine of the late fourth century who was also a former neoplatonist argued that everything in the universe was created by God at the same moment in time (and not in six days as a literal reading of the Book of Genesis would seem to require); It appears that both Philo and Augustine felt uncomfortable with the idea of a seven-day creation because it detracted from the notion of God's omnipotence. In 1950, Pope Pius XII stated limited support for the idea in his encyclical \"Humani generis\". In 1996, Pope John Paul II stated that \"new knowledge has led to the recognition of the theory of evolution as more than a hypothesis,\" but, referring to previous papal writings, he concluded that \"if the human body takes its origin from pre-existent living matter, the spiritual soul is immediately created by God.\"\n\nIn the US, Evangelical Christians have continued to believe in a literal Genesis. Members of evangelical Protestant (70%), Mormon (76%) and Jehovah's Witnesses (90%) denominations are the most likely to reject the evolutionary interpretation of the origins of life.\n\nJehovah's Witnesses adhere to a combination of gap creationism and day-age creationism, asserting that scientific evidence about the age of the universe is compatible with the Bible, but that the 'days' after Genesis 1:1 were each thousands of years in length.\n\nThe historic Christian literal interpretation of creation requires the harmonization of the two creation stories, Genesis 1:1–2:3 and Genesis 2:4–25, for there to be a consistent interpretation. They sometimes seek to ensure that their belief is taught in science classes, mainly in American schools. Opponents reject the claim that the literalistic biblical view meets the criteria required to be considered scientific. Many religious groups teach that God created the Cosmos. From the days of the early Christian Church Fathers there were allegorical interpretations of the Book of Genesis as well as literal aspects.\n\nChristian Science, a system of thought and practice derived from the writings of Mary Baker Eddy, interprets the Book of Genesis figuratively rather than literally. It holds that the material world is an illusion, and consequently not created by God: the only real creation is the spiritual realm, of which the material world is a distorted version. Christian Scientists regard the story of the creation in the Book of Genesis as having symbolic rather than literal meaning. According to Christian Science, both creationism and evolution are false from an absolute or \"spiritual\" point of view, as they both proceed from a (false) belief in the reality of a material universe. However, Christian Scientists do not oppose the teaching of evolution in schools, nor do they demand that alternative accounts be taught: they believe that both material science and literalist theology are concerned with the illusory, mortal and material, rather than the real, immortal and spiritual. With regard to material theories of creation, Eddy showed a preference for Darwin's theory of evolution over others.\n\nAccording to Hindu creationism, all species on Earth including humans have \"devolved\" or come down from a high state of pure consciousness. Hindu creationists claim that species of plants and animals are material forms adopted by pure consciousness which live an endless cycle of births and rebirths. Ronald Numbers says that: \"Hindu Creationists have insisted on the antiquity of humans, who they believe appeared fully formed as long, perhaps, as trillions of years ago.\" Hindu creationism is a form of old Earth creationism, according to Hindu creationists the universe may even be older than billions of years. These views are based on the Vedas, the creation myths of which depict an extreme antiquity of the universe and history of the Earth.\n\nIslamic creationism is the belief that the universe (including humanity) was directly created by God as explained in the Qur'an. It usually views the Book of Genesis as a corrupted version of God's message. The creation myths in the Qur'an are vaguer and allow for a wider range of interpretations similar to those in other Abrahamic religions.\n\nIslam also has its own school of theistic evolutionism, which holds that mainstream scientific analysis of the origin of the universe is supported by the Qur'an. Some Muslims believe in evolutionary creation, especially among liberal movements within Islam.\n\nWriting for \"The Boston Globe\", Drake Bennett noted: \"Without a Book of Genesis to account for ... Muslim creationists have little interest in proving that the age of the Earth is measured in the thousands rather than the billions of years, nor do they show much interest in the problem of the dinosaurs. And the idea that animals might evolve into other animals also tends to be less controversial, in part because there are passages of the Koran that seem to support it. But the issue of whether human beings are the product of evolution is just as fraught among Muslims.\" However, some Muslims, such as Adnan Oktar (also known as Harun Yahya), do not agree that one species can develop from another.\n\nSince the 1980s, Turkey has been a site of strong advocacy for creationism, supported by American adherents.\n\nThere are several verses in the Qur'an which some modern writers have interpreted as being compatible with the expansion of the universe, Big Bang and Big Crunch theories:\n\nThe Ahmadiyya movement actively promotes evolutionary theory. Ahmadis interpret scripture from the Qur'an to support the concept of macroevolution and give precedence to scientific theories. Furthermore, unlike orthodox Muslims, Ahmadis believe that humans have gradually evolved from different species. Ahmadis regard Adam as being the first Prophet of Godas opposed to him being the first man on Earth. Rather than wholly adopting the theory of natural selection, Ahmadis promote the idea of a \"guided evolution,\" viewing each stage of the evolutionary process as having been selectively woven by God. Mirza Tahir Ahmad, Fourth Caliph of the Ahmadiyya Muslim Community has stated in his magnum opus \"Revelation, Rationality, Knowledge & Truth\" (1998) that evolution did occur but only through God being the One who brings it about. It does not occur itself, according to the Ahmadiyya Muslim Community.\n\nFor Orthodox Jews who seek to reconcile discrepancies between science and the creation myths in the Bible, the notion that science and the Bible should even be reconciled through traditional scientific means is questioned. To these groups, science is as true as the Torah and if there seems to be a problem, epistemological limits are to blame for apparently irreconcilable points. They point to discrepancies between what is expected and what actually is to demonstrate that things are not always as they appear. They note that even the root word for \"world\" in the Hebrew language—עולם (Olam)—means hidden—נעלם (Neh-Eh-Lahm). Just as they know from the Torah that God created man and trees and the light on its way from the stars in their observed state, so too can they know that the world was created in its over the six days of Creation that reflects progression to its currently-observed state, with the understanding that physical ways to verify this may eventually be identified. This knowledge has been advanced by Rabbi Dovid Gottlieb, former philosophy professor at Johns Hopkins University. Also, relatively old Kabbalistic sources from well before the scientifically apparent age of the universe was first determined are in close concord with modern scientific estimates of the age of the universe, according to Rabbi Aryeh Kaplan, and based on Sefer Temunah, an early kabbalistic work attributed to the first-century Tanna Nehunya ben HaKanah. Many kabbalists accepted the teachings of the Sefer HaTemunah, including the medieval Jewish scholar Nahmanides, his close student Isaac ben Samuel of Acre, and David ben Solomon ibn Abi Zimra. Other parallels are derived, among other sources, from Nahmanides, who expounds that there was a Neanderthal-like species with which Adam mated (he did this long before Neanderthals had even been discovered scientifically). Reform Judaism does not take the Torah as a literal text, but rather as a symbolic or open-ended work.\n\nSome contemporary writers such as Rabbi Gedalyah Nadel have sought to reconcile the discrepancy between the account in the Torah, and scientific findings by arguing that each day referred to in the Bible was not 24 hours, but billions of years long. Others claim that the Earth was created a few thousand years ago, but was deliberately made to look as if it was five billion years old, e.g. by being created with ready made fossils. The best known exponent of this approach being Rabbi Menachem Mendel Schneerson Others state that although the world was physically created in six 24 hour days, the Torah accounts can be interpreted to mean that there was a period of billions of years before the six days of creation.\n\nIn the creation myth taught by Bahá'u'lláh, the Bahá'í Faith founder, the universe has \"neither beginning nor ending,\" and that the component elements of the material world have always existed and will always exist. With regard to evolution and the origin of human beings, `Abdu'l-Bahá gave extensive comments on the subject when he addressed western audiences in the beginning of the 20th century. Transcripts of these comments can be found in \"Some Answered Questions\", \"Paris Talks\" and \"The Promulgation of Universal Peace\". `Abdu'l-Bahá described the human species as having evolved from a primitive form to modern man, but that the capacity to form human intelligence was always in existence.\n\nMost vocal literalist creationists are from the US, and strict creationist views are much less common in other developed countries. According to a study published in \"Science\", a survey of the US, Turkey, Japan and Europe showed that public acceptance of evolution is most prevalent in Iceland, Denmark and Sweden at 80% of the population. There seems to be no significant correlation between believing in evolution and understanding evolutionary science.\n\nA 2009 Nielsen poll, showed that almost a quarter of Australians believe \"the biblical account of human origins.\" Forty-two percent believe in a \"wholly scientific\" explanation for the origins of life, while 32 percent believe in an evolutionary process \"guided by God.\"\n\nA 2012 survey, by Angus Reid Public Opinion revealed that 61 percent of Canadians believe in evolution. The poll asked \"Where did human beings come fromdid we start as singular cells millions of year ago and evolve into our present form, or did God create us in his image 10,000 years ago?\"\n\nIn Europe, literalist creationism is more widely rejected, though regular opinion polls are not available. Most people accept that evolution is the most widely accepted scientific theory as taught in most schools. In countries with a Roman Catholic majority, papal acceptance of evolutionary creationism as worthy of study has essentially ended debate on the matter for many people.\n\nIn the UK, a 2006 poll on the \"origin and development of life\", asked participants to choose between three different perspectives on the origin of life: 22% chose creationism, 17% opted for intelligent design, 48% selected evolutionary theory, and the rest did not know. A subsequent 2010 YouGov poll on the correct explanation for the origin of humans found that 9% opted for creationism, 12% intelligent design, 65% evolutionary theory and 13% didn't know. The former Archbishop of Canterbury Rowan Williams, head of the worldwide Anglican Communion, views the idea of teaching creationism in schools as a mistake.\n\nIn Italy, Education Minister Letizia Moratti wanted to retire evolution from the secondary school level; after one week of massive protests, she reversed her opinion.\n\nThere continues to be scattered and possibly mounting efforts on the part of religious groups throughout Europe to introduce creationism into public education. In response, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe has released a draft report titled \"The dangers of creationism in education\" on June 8, 2007, reinforced by a further proposal of banning it in schools dated October 4, 2007.\n\nSerbia suspended the teaching of evolution for one week in September 2004, under education minister Ljiljana Čolić, only allowing schools to reintroduce evolution into the curriculum if they also taught creationism. \"After a deluge of protest from scientists, teachers and opposition parties\" says the BBC report, Čolić's deputy made the statement, \"I have come here to confirm Charles Darwin is still alive\" and announced that the decision was reversed. Čolić resigned after the government said that she had caused \"problems that had started to reflect on the work of the entire government.\"\n\nPoland saw a major controversy over creationism in 2006, when the Deputy Education Minister, Mirosław Orzechowski, denounced evolution as \"one of many lies\" taught in Polish schools. His superior, Minister of Education Roman Giertych, has stated that the theory of evolution would continue to be taught in Polish schools, \"as long as most scientists in our country say that it is the right theory.\" Giertych's father, Member of the European Parliament Maciej Giertych, has opposed the teaching of evolution and has claimed that dinosaurs and humans co-existed.\n\nA 2017 poll by Pew Research found that 62% of Americans believe humans have evolved over time and 34% of Americans believe humans and other living things have existed in their present form since the beginning of time. Another 2017 Gallup creationism survey found that 38% of adults in the United States inclined to the view that \"God created humans in their present form at one time within the last 10,000 years\" when asked for their views on the origin and development of human beings, which Gallup noted was the lowest level in 35 years.\n\nAccording to a 2014 Gallup poll, about 42% of Americans believe that \"God created human beings pretty much in their present form at one time within the last 10,000 years or so.\" Another 31% believe that \"human beings have developed over millions of years from less advanced forms of life, but God guided this process,\"and 19% believe that \"human beings have developed over millions of years from less advanced forms of life, but God had no part in this process.\"\n\nBelief in creationism is inversely correlated to education; of those with postgraduate degrees, 74% accept evolution. In 1987, \"Newsweek\" reported: \"By one count there are some 700 scientists with respectable academic credentials (out of a total of 480,000 U.S. earth and life scientists) who give credence to creation-science, the general theory that complex life forms did not evolve but appeared 'abruptly.'\"\n\nA 2000 poll for People for the American Way found 70% of the US public felt that evolution was compatible with a belief in God.\n\nAccording to a study published in \"Science\", between 1985 and 2005 the number of adult North Americans who accept evolution declined from 45% to 40%, the number of adults who reject evolution declined from 48% to 39% and the number of people who were unsure increased from 7% to 21%. Besides the US the study also compared data from 32 European countries, Turkey, and Japan. The only country where acceptance of evolution was lower than in the US was Turkey (25%).\n\nAccording to a 2011 Fox News poll, 45% of Americans believe in Creationism, down from 50% in a similar poll in 1999. 21% believe in 'the theory of evolution as outlined by Darwin and other scientists' (up from 15% in 1999), and 27% answered that both are true (up from 26% in 1999).\n\nIn September 2012, educator and television personality Bill Nye spoke with the Associated Press and aired his fears about acceptance of creationism, believing that teaching children that creationism is the only true answer without letting them understand the way science works will prevent any future innovation in the world of science. In February 2014, Nye defended evolution in the classroom in a debate with creationist Ken Ham on the topic of whether creation is a viable model of origins in today's modern, scientific era.\n\nIn the US, creationism has become centered in the political controversy over creation and evolution in public education, and whether teaching creationism in science classes conflicts with the separation of church and state. Currently, the controversy comes in the form of whether advocates of the intelligent design movement who wish to \"Teach the Controversy\" in science classes have conflated science with religion.\n\nPeople for the American Way polled 1500 North Americans about the teaching of evolution and creationism in November and December 1999. They found that most North Americans were not familiar with Creationism, and most North Americans had heard of evolution, but many did not fully understand the basics of the theory. The main findings were:\nIn such political contexts, creationists argue that their particular religiously based origin belief is superior to those of other belief systems, in particular those made through secular or scientific rationale. Political creationists are opposed by many individuals and organizations who have made detailed critiques and given testimony in various court cases that the alternatives to scientific reasoning offered by creationists are opposed by the consensus of the scientific community.\n\nMost Christians disagree with the teaching of creationism as an alternative to evolution in schools. Several religious organizations, among them the Catholic Church, hold that their faith does not conflict with the scientific consensus regarding evolution. The Clergy Letter Project, which has collected more than 13,000 signatures, is an \"endeavor designed to demonstrate that religion and science can be compatible.\"\n\nIn his 2002 article \"Intelligent Design as a Theological Problem,\" George Murphy argues against the view that life on Earth, in all its forms, is direct evidence of God's act of creation (Murphy quotes Phillip E. Johnson's claim that he is speaking \"of a God who acted openly and left his fingerprints on all the evidence.\"). Murphy argues that this view of God is incompatible with the Christian understanding of God as \"the one revealed in the cross and resurrection of Christ.\" The basis of this theology is Isaiah 45:15, \"Verily thou art a God that hidest thyself, O God of Israel, the Saviour.\"\n\nMurphy observes that the execution of a Jewish carpenter by Roman authorities is in and of itself an ordinary event and did not require divine action. On the contrary, for the crucifixion to occur, God had to limit or \"empty\" himself. It was for this reason that Paul the Apostle wrote, in Philippians 2:5-8:\n\nLet this mind be in you, which was also in Christ Jesus: Who, being in the form of God, thought it not robbery to be equal with God: But made himself of no reputation, and took upon him the form of a servant, and was made in the likeness of men: And being found in fashion as a man, he humbled himself, and became obedient unto death, even the death of the cross.\n\nMurphy concludes that,Just as the Son of God limited himself by taking human form and dying on a cross, God limits divine action in the world to be in accord with rational laws which God has chosen. This enables us to understand the world on its own terms, but it also means that natural processes hide God from scientific observation.For Murphy, a theology of the cross requires that Christians accept a \"methodological\" naturalism, meaning that one cannot invoke God to explain natural phenomena, while recognizing that such acceptance does not require one to accept a \"metaphysical\" naturalism, which proposes that nature is all that there is.\n\nThe Jesuit priest George Coyne has stated that is \"unfortunate that, especially here in America, creationism has come to mean...some literal interpretation of Genesis.\" He argues that \"...Judaic-Christian faith is radically creationist, but in a totally different sense. It is rooted in belief that everything depends on God, or better, all is a gift from God.\"\n\nOther Christians have expressed qualms about teaching creationism. In March 2006, then Archbishop of Canterbury Rowan Williams, the leader of the world's Anglicans, stated his discomfort about teaching creationism, saying that creationism was \"a kind of category mistake, as if the Bible were a theory like other theories.\" He also said: \"My worry is creationism can end up reducing the doctrine of creation rather than enhancing it.\" The views of the Episcopal Churcha major American-based branch of the Anglican Communionon teaching creationism resemble those of Williams.\n\nThe National Science Teachers Association is opposed to teaching creationism as a science, as is the Association for Science Teacher Education, the National Association of Biology Teachers, the American Anthropological Association, the American Geosciences Institute, the Geological Society of America, the American Geophysical Union, and numerous other professional teaching and scientific societies.\n\nIn April 2010, the American Academy of Religion issued \"Guidelines for Teaching About Religion in K‐12 Public Schools in the United States\", which included guidance that creation science or intelligent design should not be taught in science classes, as \"Creation science and intelligent design represent worldviews that fall outside of the realm of science that is defined as (and limited to) a method of inquiry based on gathering observable and measurable evidence subject to specific principles of reasoning.\" However, they, as well as other \"worldviews that focus on speculation regarding the origins of life represent another important and relevant form of human inquiry that is appropriately studied in literature or social sciences courses. Such study, however, must include a diversity of worldviews representing a variety of religious and philosophical perspectives and must avoid privileging one view as more legitimate than others.\"\n\nRandy Moore and Sehoya Cotner, from the biology program at the University of Minnesota, reflect on the relevance of teaching creationism in the article \"The Creationist Down the Hall: Does It Matter When Teachers Teach Creationism?\" They conclude that \"Despite decades of science education reform, numerous legal decisions declaring the teaching of creationism in public-school science classes to be unconstitutional, overwhelming evidence supporting evolution, and the many denunciations of creationism as nonscientific by professional scientific societies, creationism remains popular throughout the United States.\"\n\nScience is a system of knowledge based on observation, empirical evidence, and the development of theories that yield testable explanations and predictions of natural phenomena. By contrast, creationism is often based on literal interpretations of the narratives of particular religious texts. Some creationist beliefs involve purported forces that lie outside of nature, such as supernatural intervention, and often do not allow predictions at all. Therefore, these can neither be confirmed nor disproved by scientists. However, many creationist beliefs can be framed as testable predictions about phenomena such as the age of the Earth, its geological history and the origins, distributions and relationships of living organisms found on it. Early science incorporated elements of these beliefs, but as science developed these beliefs were gradually falsified and were replaced with understandings based on accumulated and reproducible evidence that often allows the accurate prediction of future results.\n\nSome scientists, such as Stephen Jay Gould, consider science and religion to be two compatible and complementary fields, with authorities in distinct areas of human experience, so-called non-overlapping magisteria. This view is also held by many theologians, who believe that ultimate origins and meaning are addressed by religion, but favor verifiable scientific explanations of natural phenomena over those of creationist beliefs. Other scientists, such as Richard Dawkins, reject the non-overlapping magisteria and argue that, in disproving literal interpretations of creationists, the scientific method also undermines religious texts as a source of truth. Irrespective of this diversity in viewpoints, since creationist beliefs are not supported by empirical evidence, the scientific consensus is that any attempt to teach creationism as science should be rejected.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56511151", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56511151", "title": "Dacorum Heritage Trust", "text": "Dacorum Heritage Trust\n\nDacorum Heritage Trust (DHT) is a local history advocacy group in the United Kingdom. It collects and records the history of the Borough of Dacorum, Hertfordshire, in the south of England, and aims to encourage the appreciation of the heritage of Dacorum.\n\nIn 1979 the Dacorum Museum Advisory Committee (DMAC) was formed to advise Dacorum District Council on heritage matters. In September 1993 the Dacorum Heritage Trust was founded and set up an artefact collection and archive in an old fire station building in Berkhamsted in 1994.\n\nIn 2014, DHT took on responsibility for the paper archive of the local newspaper, the \"Hemel Hempstead Gazette & Express\". The Trust has also been involved in the preservation of a set of rare pre-reformation religious wall paintings which were uncovered inside a 15th-century cottage at 130–136 Piccott's End. The Trust launched an appeal in 2014 to raise money to buy the row of cottages.\n\nAlthough the Trust is an Arts Council England Accredited Museum, it lacks a permanent public display space and operates as a museum store. Its collection is held in Berkhamsted and can only be visited by appointment. The museum store holds over 100,000 objects relating to the history of the local towns of Berkhamsted, Bovingdon, Chipperfield, Flamstead, Hemel Hempstead, Kings Langley, Markyate and Tring. Archaeological artefacts held by the Trust include flint tools from the Paleolithic period, fragments from Roman Villas at Boxmoor and Northchurch and the Gadebridge Park Roman Villa, a Romano-British woman's skeleton excavated at Cow Roast, and artefacts from Kings Langley Palace. Also within the Trust's holdings is a collection of prints and engravings by the Hemel Hempstead artist Lefevre James Cranstone.\n\nThe Trust also holds historical exhibitions in local libraries, and publishes journals on local heritage.\n\nDacorum Heritage Trust has proposed that The Bury, a Grade II* listed house in Hemel Hempstead, should be converted into a museum and art gallery for Dacorum, to display a collection of archaeological and historical artefacts from the surrounding area. The project is currently awaiting necessary funding and planning permission to proceed.\n\n"}
{"id": "3292954", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3292954", "title": "Eikan", "text": "Eikan\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32827858", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32827858", "title": "Jerome Leocata", "text": "Jerome Leocata\n\nJerome Leocata (\"c.\" 1664–1745) was a major Maltese mediaeval philosopher who specialised mainly in metaphysics. His long academic career in philosophy and theology was very hampered by his many administrative commitments. His writings, however, bear witness to his thinking skills and his philosophical prowess. He possessed a clear and systematic mind, consistently endeavouring to give a sound philosophical basis to his speculations. No portrait of him is yet known to exist.\n\nLeocata must have been born in 1664 or whereabouts. He most probably hailed from Valletta, Malta, for it was there that he joined the Dominican Order around 1680. He must have been sixteen years of age or perhaps a year or two older. He was still a student ten years later, in 1690, at the \"studium\" of the Dominicans at Valletta. In 1694, he was already teaching theology at the same \"studium\"\n\nWe might somewhat gauge the intellectual capabilities of Leocata from the great esteem in which Ramon Perellos y Roccaful, the Grand Master of the Order of Knights Hospitallers, had for him. Documentary evidence exists which shows that the Grand Master recommended him to foreign diplomats for his wisdom and general abilities.\n\nLeocata became a Bachelor of Theology by sitting to a special exam in Rome, Italy, in 1700. Immediately, he was sent to Tripani, Sicily as Master of the Dominican students there, and also as Regent of Studies at the Dominican \"studium\". He was instituted in these offices in 1701. After two years (1703) in Sicily, Leocata returned to Malta to teach philosophy and theology at the Bishop’s Seminary. He stayed here barely two years, for in 1705 he was sent once more to Tripani at Regent of Studies there.\n\nPut forward by Grand Master Ramon Perellos y Roccaful, in 1707 Leocata was recommended to the Master of the Dominican Order for the office of Vicar-General of the Dominicans in Malta on behalf of the Sicilian Prior Provincial, a proposal which was accepted the following year (1708). In the meantime, the Dominican community at the Priory of Portus Salutis of Valletta elected Leocata as its superior. Thus, Leocata lived there and lectured at the \"Studium Generale\" of Valletta. Though juridically his office was subordinate to a higher one in Sicily, he was given wide decision-making powers to be almost independent. When, in 1710, his office as Vicar-General expired, Leocata was appointed for a second term. In 1712, Grand Master Ramon Perellos y Roccaful recommended for a third period (which was quite exceptional), however Rome declined the suggestion. He was appointed to the same office in 1717 and again in 1719.\n\nBetween 1729, Leocata was elected Priory to the community at Vittoriosa, Malta, and a year later, in 1730, to that at Valletta. At each place, Leocata lectured at their respective \"Studium Generale\". In 1730, he was chosen to be the Prior Provincial in Sicily. However, Rome objected, and instead appointed him, for the fifth time, Vicar-General in Malta. In 1738, he was also Prior of the community at Valletta.\n\nLeocata died at Valletta in 1745.\n\nThe extant works of Leocata are not penned down by his own hand. They are manuscripts inscribed word for word by a student of his, John Mary Gatt. It seems that Leocata himself endorsed the manuscripts produced by Gatt, since they remained in his possession, and probably used them for his lectures. All of them are in Latin.\n\nVery little is known about Gatt except that he hailed from Zebbug, Malta. However, we do possess one manuscript composed by him, called \"Propositiones Damnate\", which was finished in 1700. For sure, this work was part of Gatt’s learning experience while frequenting Leocata. In fact, it is add to the bound volume containing Leocata’s lectures as transcribed by Gatt himself. All of these (Leocata’s and Gatt’s manuscripts) are held at the archives of the Dominican priory of Portus Salutis at Valletta. Gatt’s manuscript is a collection of seven propositions (statements or sentences) containing beliefs condemned by the Catholic Church.\n\nSince all of Leocata’s extant manuscripts deal the Catholic Sacraments, it might be taken for granted that they are of solely theological interest. However, this is not the case. Leocata deals with each subject in a purely philosophical manner, consistently venturing to provide philosophical arguments and foundations to the religious or spiritual themes he deals with.\n\nUnfortunately, no manuscript of Leocata has been transliterated, much less translated into any modern language, or even freshly read and studied. He might well be one of the rich mediaeval philosophical treasures of Malta who are still to be fittingly noticed and suitably appreciated.\n\nLeocata’s extant works are all of an Aristotelian-Thomist approach. Both in content and in methodology they are very much in the style of Scholasticism. As might be expected, than, he holds Aristotle and Thomas Aquinas as his major authorities and mentors.\n\nAs indicated above, all the lectures contained in Leocata’s extant manuscripts were delivered by him at the \"Studium Generale\" of Portus Salutis at Valletta, Malta. They are the following:\n\n\nA further manuscript attributed to Leocata is:\n\n"}
{"id": "225968", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225968", "title": "John Home", "text": "John Home\n\nRev John Home FRSE (13 September 1722 – 4 September 1808) was a Scottish minister, soldier and author. His play \"Douglas\" was a standard Scottish school text until the Second World War, but his work is now largely neglected. In 1783 he was one of the joint founders of the Royal Society of Edinburgh.\n\nHe was born at Ancrum in Roxburghshire, but moved to Leith, near Edinburgh, in early childhood when his father, Alexander Home, a distant relation of the earls of Home, became town clerk. He was born on 13 September and christened on 22 September 1722\n\nJohn was educated at the Leith Grammar School, and at the University of Edinburgh, where he graduated MA, in 1742. Though interested in being a soldier, he studied divinity, and was licensed by the presbytery of Edinburgh in 1745. In the same year he joined as a volunteer against Bonnie Prince Charlie, and was taken prisoner at the Battle of Falkirk. With many others he was carried to Doune castle in Perthshire, but soon escaped.\n\nIn July 1746, Home was presented to the parish of Athelstaneford, East Lothian, left vacant by the death of Robert Blair. \nHe had leisure to visit his friends and became especially intimate with David Hume who belonged to the same family as himself. \nHis first play, \"\", founded on Plutarch's narrative, was finished in 1747. He took it to London, England, and submitted it to David Garrick for representation at Drury Lane, but it was rejected as unsuitable for the stage. \nThe tragedy of \"Douglas\" was suggested to him by hearing a lady sing the ballad of \"Gil Morrice\" or \"Child Maurice\" (FJ Child, \"Popular Ballads\", ii. 263). \nThe ballad supplied him with the outline of a simple and striking plot.\n\nAfter five years, he completed his play and took it to London for Garrick's opinion. \nIt was rejected, but on his return to Edinburgh his friends resolved that it should be produced there. \nIt was performed on 14 December 1756 with overwhelming success, in spite of the opposition of the presbytery, who summoned Alexander Carlyle to answer for having attended its representation. \nHome wisely resigned his charge in 1757, after a visit to London, where \"Douglas\" was brought out at Covent Garden on 14 March. Peg Woffington played Lady Randolph, a part which found a later exponent in Sarah Siddons. David Hume summed up his admiration for \"Douglas\" by saying that his friend possessed \"the true theatric genius of Shakespeare and Otway, refined from the unhappy barbarism of the one and licentiousness of the other.\" Gray, writing to Horace Walpole (August 1757), said that the author \"seemed to have retrieved the true language of the stage, which has been lost for these hundred years,\" but Samuel Johnson held aloof from the general enthusiasm, and averred that there were not ten good lines in the whole play (Boswell, \"Life\", ed. Croker, 1348, p. 300).\n\nIn 1758, Home became private secretary to Lord Bute, then secretary of state, and was appointed tutor to the prince of Wales; and in 1760 his patron's influence procured him a pension of £300 per annum and in 1763 a sinecure worth another £500. Garrick produced \"Agis\" at Drury Lane on 21 February 1758. By dint of good acting and powerful support, according to Genest, the play lasted for eleven days, but it was lamentably inferior to \"Douglas\". In 1760 his tragedy, \"The Siege of Aquileia\", was put on the stage, Garrick taking the part of Aemilius. In 1769 another tragedy, \"The Fatal Discovery\" ran for nine nights; \"Alonzo\" also (1773) had fair success; but his last tragedy, \"Alfred\" (1778), was so coolly received that he gave up writing for the stage. \nHome was also an active participant in the social life of Edinburgh, and joined the Poker Club in 1762.\n\nIn May 1763 he succeeded George Lind as MP for Edinburgh.\n\nIn 1778, he joined a regiment formed by the Duke of Buccleuch. He sustained severe injuries in a fall from horseback which permanently affected his brain, and was persuaded by his friends to retire. \nFrom 1767, he resided either at Edinburgh or at a villa which he built at Kilduff near his former parish. \nIt was at this time that he wrote his \"History of the Rebellion of 1745\", which appeared in 1802. \n\nHome died at Merchiston Bank, near Edinburgh, in his eighty-sixth year. He is buried in South Leith Parish Church. He died on 4 September and was buried on the 5th.\n\nThe \"Works of John Home\" were collected and published by Henry Mackenzie in 1822 with \"An Account of the Life and Writings of Mr John House,\" which also appeared separately in the same year, but several of his smaller poems seem to have escaped the editor's observation. These are--\"The Fate of Caesar,\" \"Verses upon Inveraray,\" \"Epistle to the Earl of Eglintoun,\" \"Prologue on the Birthday of the Prince of Wales, 1759\" and several \"Epigrams,\" which are printed in vol. ii. of \"Original Poems by Scottish Gentlemen\" (1762). See also Sir W Scott, \"The Life and Works of John Home\" in the \"Quarterly Review\" (June 1827). \"Douglas\" is included in numerous collections of British drama. Voltaire published his \"Le Gaffe, ou l'Ecossaise\" (1760), \"Londres\" (really Geneva), as a translation from the work of Hume, described as \"pasteur de l'église d'Edimbourg\", but Home seems to have taken no notice of the mystification.\n\nHome is amongst the sixteen writers and poets depicted on the lower capital heads of the Scott Monument on Princes Street in Edinburgh. He appears at the far right side on the east face.\n\nA small bronze plaque stands near the site of his home on Maritime Street in Leith. His house was demolished in the 1950s and now holds a modern housing development (Bell's Court).\n\n"}
{"id": "50741589", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50741589", "title": "Khasan Bakayev", "text": "Khasan Bakayev\n\nKhasan Zayndinovich Bakayev () is a prominent historian of the Chechen Republic. The Russo-Chechen wars in 1994-2001 contributed to his inability to obtain his doctoral degree at a Russian university in St. Petersburg. Bakayev transitioned from a scholar to a dissident. Nevertheless, Bakayev managed to publish hundreds of articles in newspapers and magazines. His books are widely known in Chechnya and recognized by scientific community.\n\nIn 1976, Khasan Bakayev graduated from the High School №1in Gekhi, Chechen Republic. From 1977 to 1979 he served in the Soviet army, which was a mandatory duty for youngsters. From 1983 to 1988 he studied History at the Chechen-Ingush State University and received his master's degree. In the last two years of his University studies, Bakayev began to specialize in studying the History of the Ancient East. As a student, he published around 40 scientific articles related to Vainakh (Chechen and Ingush) ethnogenesis. In the same period of time, Kh. Bakayev was actively involved in archaeological excavations in the former Chechen-Ingush Republic.\n\nIn 1987, Kh. Bakayev was recognized as the best scientifically oriented student for his achievements in the regional archaeological conferences and, as a result, he was sent to Moscow to participate in the XXII All-Union student archeological conference, where Khasan was awarded a diploma of the winner of the first degree. And in the same year, Bakayev was invited to participate at the top level All-Union Scientific Conference titled \"Caucasus and civilizations of the Ancient East\", in Vladikavkaz, Russia. This opportunity allowed him to contact and even debate with many scientists like I.M. Dyakonov, G.A. Melikishvili, Viacheslav Vsev. Ivanov, O.M. Japaridze, S.A. Starostin, A.Y. Militarёv, etc.\n\nFrom 1988 to 1990, after completing his studies at the University, Bakayev was engaged in archaeology at the professional level. During these years, he published a number of scientific papers and essays that identified the ethnic and cultural ties of the Vainakh peoples with the Ancient East.\n\nIn 1990, Bakayev got an opportunity to begin studies at the graduate school of Oriental Studies of St. Petersburg University under the leadership of famous Oriental scientists as I.M. Dyakonov and B.B. Piotrowski. His topic of doctoral degree was the ancient Hurro-Urartian civilization, which existed from 2300 BC until 590 BC, and its ethno-cultural ties with the origin of the Chechens. At the same time, along with Dr. Rostunov, H. Bakaev was developing a theory of the Indo-European nature of the Kura–Araxes archeological culture (3400 BC - 2000 BC). During this period of time (1990-1992), Bakayev managed to publish a number of scientific reports in Moscow and St. Petersburg based academic magazines.\n\nIn 1992 Kh. Bakayev’s scientific career was interrupted due to the complicated political circumstances related to the Russian-Chechen conflict. Instead of continuing his academic career, he became a journalist specializing in human rights and ethnic identity.\n\nFor this purpose, Bakayev published articles in the \"Ichkeria\" (“Ичкерия”) newspaper, the official daily gazette of the Chechen Republic of Ichkeria. In 1995, he became the Chief Editor of this newspaper. In November 1996, when the First Russo-Chechen war was over, Kh. Bakayev founded another private newspaper named “The Chechen” (“Чеченец”) to focus on the historical roots of the origin of the Chechens and their historical ties with other ancient and presently existing peoples.\n\nMeanwhile, Russian-Chechen conflict increased. Bakayev made make several trips to Baku, Azerbaijan, to prepare an alternative newspaper office there. The second Russo-Chechen war found Bakayev in Baku. He stayed in Azerbaijan for a time. However, in a few years, Bakayev immigrated to Western Europe, where he has been living until today. Bakayev resumed his scientific work and journalism. For the past several years he has published a few books related to Chechen (Vainakh) ethnic history.\n\nOn March 6, 2015, through March 7, 2015, the Chechen Government in exile invited Bakayev to participate in the International Conference in Brussels, Belgium. Immediately prior to the conference, Bakayev published a book titled \"The Forever War. Chechens through eyes of friends and enemies.” On behalf of the government and the Chechen people, Mr. Ahmed Zakaev, the Prime-Minister of the Chechen Government, awarded Mr. Khassan Bakayev \"Qoman Si\" (\"Honor of the Nation\"), the highest National Order of Merit, with the wording: \"For The Selfless Service For The Motherland. For The Selfless Work On The Information Front. And For The Long And Fruitful Scientific Work For The Chechen People.”\n\n"}
{"id": "11537568", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11537568", "title": "List of Khitan rulers", "text": "List of Khitan rulers\n\n\nKhitans tribes who did not belong to the Dahe confederation but living at the same period\n\n\nThere were nine emperors of the Liao dynasty, which at its height ruled over an area composing modern day Mongolia and northern China for over two hundred years. The emperors of the Liao dynasty were Khitans from Yelü clan.\n\nThe family name Li is a \"rewarded\" name being similar to the Emperor's name Li of the Tang dynasty.\n\n"}
{"id": "2725929", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2725929", "title": "Location hypotheses of Atlantis", "text": "Location hypotheses of Atlantis\n\nLocation hypotheses of Atlantis are various proposed real-world settings for the fictional island of Atlantis, described as a lost civilization mentioned in Plato's dialogues \"Timaeus\" and \"Critias\", written about 360 B.C. In these dialogues, a character named Critias claims that an island called Atlantis was swallowed by the sea about 9,200 years previously. According to the dialogues, this story was passed down to him through his grandfather, also named Critias, who in turn got it from his father, Dropides, who had got it from Solon, the famous Athenian lawmaker, who had got the story from an Egyptian sanctuary. Plato's dialogues locate the island in the Atlantic Pelagos \"Atlantic Sea\", \"in front of\" the Pillars of Hercules (Στήλες του Ηρακλή) and facing a district called modern Gades or Gadira (Gadiron), a location that some modern Atlantis researchers associate with modern Gibraltar; however various locations have been proposed.\n\nMost theories of the placement of Atlantis center on the Mediterranean, influenced largely by the geographical location of Egypt from which the story allegedly is derived.\n\nRobert Graves in his \"The Greek Myths\" (1955), argues Atlantis was the Island of Pharos off the western coast of the Nile Delta, that is, before Alexander the Great connected the island to mainland Egypt by building a causeway.\n\nThe Minoan civilization on Crete was the dominant sea power of the eastern Mediterranean, with large cities and temples, but after 1400 BC only small villages existed. Archaeologists believe that some abrupt event changed society, but an invasion is unlikely because of the Minoan fleet. After the discovery of the Minoans at Knossos on the island by Sir Arthur Evans in 1900, theories linking the disappearance of the empire with the destruction of Atlantis were proposed by K. T. Frost in 1913 and E. S. Balch in 1917. This theory was revived by Spyridon Marinatos in 1950, Angelos Galanopoulos in 1960,\nand P. B. S. Andrews in 1967. Galanopoulos argued that Plato's dating of 9,000 years before Solon (said by Plato to have translated Egyptian records of Atlantis)'s time was the result of an error in translation, probably from Egyptian into Greek, which produced \"thousands\" instead of \"hundreds\". Such an error would also rescale Plato's Atlantis to the size of Crete, while leaving the city the size of the crater on Thera; 900 years before Solon would be the fifteenth century BC. More recent archaeological, seismological, and vulcanological evidence has expanded the asserted connection of Crete, the island of Santorini, and the Minoan civilization with Plato's description of Atlantis. (Recent arguments for Akrotiri being Atlantis have been popularized on television in shows such as The History Channel show \"Lost Worlds\" episode \"Atlantis\".) Evidence said to advance this idea includes:\n\n\nThe classicist Robert L. Scranton argued in an article published in \"Archaeology\" that Atlantis was the \"Copaic drainage complex and its civilization\" in Lake Copais, Boeotia. Modern archaeological discoveries have revealed a Mycenaean-era drainage complex and subterranean channels in the lake.\n\nIt has been argued by Robert Sarmast, an American architect, that the lost city of Atlantis lies at the bottom of the eastern Mediterranean within the Cyprus Basin. In his book and on his web site, he argues that images prepared from sonar data of the sea bottom of the Cyprus Basin southeast of Cyprus show features resembling man-made structures on it at depths of 1,500 meters. He interprets these features as being artificial structures that are part of the lost city of Atlantis as described by Plato. According to his ideas, several characteristics of Cyprus, including the presence of copper and extinct Cyprus dwarf elephants and local place names and festivals (Kataklysmos), support his identification of Cyprus as once being part of Atlantis. As with many other theories concerning the location of Atlantis, Sarmast speculates that its destruction by catastrophic flooding is reflected in the story of Noah's Flood in \"Genesis\".\n\nIn part, Sarmast bases his theory that Atlantis can be found offshore of Cyprus beneath 0.9 mile (1.5 km) of water on an abundance of evidence that the Mediterranean Sea dried up during the Messinian Salinity Crisis when its level dropped by 2 to 3 miles (3.2 to 4.9 km) below the level of the Atlantic Ocean as the result of tectonic uplift blocking the inflow of water through Strait of Gibraltar. Separated from the Atlantic Ocean, the Mediterranean Sea either partly or completely dried up as the result of evaporation. As a result, its formerly submerged bottom turned into a desert with large saline and brackish lakes. This area all was flooded when a ridge collapsed allowing the catastrophic flooding through the Straits of Gibraltar. However, Sarmast disagrees with mainstream geologists, oceanographers, and paleontologists in arguing that the closing of the Straits of Gibraltar; the desiccation and subaerial exposure of the floor of the Mediterranean Sea; and its catastrophic flooding has occurred \"forty times or more times in its long and turbulent existence\" and that \"the age of each of these events is unknown.\" In the same interview, he also contradicts what mainstream geologists, oceanographers, and paleontologists argue in claiming that \"Scientists know that roughly 18,000 years ago, there was not just one Mediterranean Sea, but three.\" However, he does not specify who these scientists are; nor does he cite peer-reviewed scientific literature that supports this claim.\n\nMarine and other geologists, who have also studied the bottom of the Cyprus basin, and professional archaeologists completely disagree with his interpretations. Investigations by Dr. C. Hübscher of the Institut für Geophysik, Universität Hamburg, Germany, and others of the salt tectonics and mud volcanism within the Cyprus Basin, eastern Mediterranean Sea, demonstrated that the features which Sarmast interprets to be Atlantis consist only of a natural compressional fold caused by local salt tectonics and a slide scar with surficial compressional folds at the downslope end and sides of the slide. This research collaborates seismic data shown and discussed in the \"Atlantis: New Revelations 2-hour Special\" episode of \"Digging for the Truth\", a History Channel documentary television series. Using reflection seismology, this documentary demonstrated techniques that what Sarmast interpreted to be artificial walls are natural tectonic landforms.\n\nFurthermore, the interpretation of the age and stratigraphy of sediments blanketing the bottom of the Cyprus Basin from sea bottom cores containing Pleistocene and older marine sediments and thousands of kilometers of seismic lines from the Cyprus and adjacent basins clearly demonstrates that the Mediterranean Sea last dried up during the Messinian Salinity Crisis between 5.59 and 5.33 million years ago. For example, research conducted south of Cyprus as part of Leg 160 of the Ocean Drilling Project recovered from Sites 963, 965, and 966 cores of sediments underlying the bottom of the Mediterranean Sea at depths as shallow as 470, 1506, and 1044 meters (1540, 4940, and 3420 ft) below sea level. Thus, these cores came from parts of sea bottom of the eastern Mediterranean Sea that either lie above or at the depth of Sarmast's Atlantis, which lies at depths between 1460 and 1510 meters (4820 and 4950 ft) below mean sea level. These cores provide a detailed and continuous record of sea level that demonstrates that for millions of years at least during the entire Pliocene, Pleistocene, and Holocene epochs that the feature that Sarmast interprets to be Atlantis and its adjacent sea bottom were always submerged below sea level. Therefore, the entire Cyprus Basin, including the ridge where Sarmast claims that Atlantis is located, has been submerged beneath the Mediterranean Sea for millions of years. Since its formation, the sea bottom feature identified by Sarmast as \"Atlantis\" has always been submerged beneath over a kilometer of water.\n\nA. Giovannini has argued that the submergence of the Greek city of Helike in 373 BC, i.e. while Plato was alive, may have been the inspiration for a fictional story about Atlantis. The claim that Helike is the inspiration for Plato's Atlantis is also supported by Dora Katsonopoulou and Steven Soter.\n\nThe concept of the identification of Atlantis with the island of Sardinia is the idea that the Italians were involved in the Sea Peoples movement (a similar story to Plato's account), that the name \"Atlas\" may have been derived from \"Italos\" via the Middle Egyptian language, and Plato's descriptions of the island and the city of Atlantis share several traits with Sardinia and its Bronze Age culture.\n\nMalta, being situated in the dividing line between the western and eastern Mediterranean Sea, and being home to some of the oldest man-made structures in the world, is considered a possible location of Atlantis both by some current researchers and by Maltese amateur enthusiasts.\n\nIn the 19th century, the antiquarian Giorgio Grognet de Vassé published a short compendium detailing the theory that Malta was the location of Atlantis. His theory was inspired by the discovery of the megalithic temples of Ġgantija and Ħaġar Qim during his lifetime.\n\nIn \"Malta fdal Atlantis\" (\"Maltese remains of Atlantis\") (2002), Francis Galea writes about several older studies and hypotheses, particularly that of Maltese architect Giorgio Grongnet, who in 1854 thought that the Maltese Islands are the remnants of Atlantis. However, in 1828, the same Giorgo Grongnet was involved in a scandal concerning forged findings which were intended to provide a \"proof\" for the claim that Malta was Atlantis.\n\nPeter James, in his book \"The Sunken Kingdom\", identifies Atlantis with the kingdom of Zippasla. He argues that Solon did indeed gather the story on his travels, but in Lydia, not Egypt as Plato states; that Atlantis is identical with Tantalis, the city of Tantalus in Asia Minor, which was (in a similar tradition known to the Greeks) said to have been destroyed by an earthquake; that the legend of Atlantis' conquests in the Mediterranean is based on the revolution by King Madduwattas of Zippasla against Hittite rule; that Zippasla is identical with Sipylus, where Greek tradition placed Tantalis; and that the now vanished lake to the north of Mount Sipylus was the site of the city.\n\nThe geoarchaeologist Eberhard Zangger has proposed the hypothesis that Atlantis was in fact the city state of Troy. He both agrees and disagrees with Rainer W. Kühne: He too believes that the Trojans-Atlanteans were the sea peoples, but only a minor part of them. He proposes that all Greek speaking city states of the Aegean civilization or Mycenae constituted the sea peoples and that they destroyed each other's economies in a series of semi-fratricidal wars lasting several decades.\n\nGerman researchers Siegfried and Christian Schoppe locate Atlantis in the Black Sea. Before 5500 BC, a great plain lay in the northwest at a former freshwater-lake. In 5510 BC, rising sea level topped the barrier at today's Bosporus. They identify the Pillars of Hercules with the Strait of Bosporus. They gave no explanation how the ships of the merchants coming from all over the world had arrived at the harbour of Atlantis when it was 350 feet below global sea-level.\n\nThey claim Oreichalcos means the obsidian stone that used to be a cash-equivalent at that time and was replaced by the spondylus shell around 5500 BC, which would suit the red, white, black motif. The geocatastrophic event led to the neolithic diaspora in Europe, also beginning 5500 BC.\n\nIn 2000, the \"Guardian\" reported that Robert Ballard, in a small submarine, found remains of human habitation around 300 feet underwater in the Black Sea off the north coast of Turkey. The area flooded around 5000 BC. This flood is also thought to have inspired the Biblical story of Noah's Ark known as the Black Sea deluge theory.\n\nThe Great Atlantis Flood, by Flying Eagle & Whispering Wind, locates Atlantis in the Sea of Azov. The theory proposes that the Dialogues of Plato present an accurate account of geological events, which occurred in 9,600 BC, in the Black Sea-Mediterranean Corridor. Glacial melt-waters, at the end of the Younger Dryas Ice Age caused a dramatic rise in the sea level of the Caspian Sea. An earthquake caused a fracture, which allowed the Caspian Sea to flood across the fertile plains of Atlantis. Simultaneously the earthquake caused the vast farmlands of Atlantis to sink, forming the present day Sea of Azov, the shallowest sea in the world.\n\nAndalusia is a region in modern-day southern Spain which once included the \"lost\" city of Tartessos, which disappeared in the 6th century BC. The Tartessians were traders known to the Ancient Greeks who knew of their legendary king Arganthonios. The Andalusian hypothesis was originally developed by the Spanish author Juan de Mariana and the Dutch author Johannes van Gorp (Johannes Goropius Becanus), both of the 16th century, later by José Pellicer de Ossau Salas y Tovar in 1673, who suggested that the metropolis of Atlantis was between the islands Mayor and Menor, located almost in the center of the Doñana Marshes, and expanded upon by Juan Fernández Amador y de los Ríos in 1919, who suggested that the metropolis of Atlantis was located precisely where today are the 'Marismas de Hinojo'. These claims were made again in 1922 by the German author Adolf Schulten, and further propagated by Otto Jessen, Richard Hennig, Victor Berard, and Elena Wishaw in the 1920s. The suggested locations in Andalusia lie outside the Pillars of Hercules, and therefore beyond but close to the Mediterranean itself.\n\nIn 2005, based upon the work of Adolf Schulten, the German teacher Werner Wickboldt also claimed this to be the location of Atlantis. Wickboldt suggested that the war of the Atlanteans refers to the war of the Sea Peoples who attacked the Eastern Mediterranean countries around 1200 BC and that the Iron Age city of Tartessos may have been built at the site of the ruined Atlantis. In 2000, Georgeos Diaz-Montexano published an article explaining his theory that Atlantis was located somewhere between Andalusia and Morocco.\n\nAn Andalusian location was also supported by Rainer Walter Kühne in his article that appeared in the journal \"Antiquity\". Kühne's theory says: \"Good fiction imitates facts. Plato declared that his Atlantis tale is philosophical fiction invented to describe his fictitious ideal state in the case of war. Kühne suggests that Plato has used three different historical elements for this tale. (i) Greek tradition on Mycenaean Athens for the description of ancient Athens, (ii) Egyptian records on the wars of the Sea Peoples for the description of the war of the Atlanteans, and (iii) oral tradition from Syracuse about Tartessos for the description of the city and geography of Atlantis.\" According to Wickboldt, Satellite images show two rectangular shapes on the tops of two small elevations inside the marsh of Doñana which he hypothesizes are the \"temple of Poseidon\" and \"the temple of Cleito and Poseidon\".\nOn satellite images parts of several \"rings\" are recognizable, similar in their proportion with the ring system by Plato. It is not known if any of these shapes are natural or manmade and archaeological excavations are planned. Geologists have shown that the Doñana National Park experienced intense erosion from 4000 BC until the 9th century AD, where it became a marine environment. For thousands of years until the Medieval Age, all that occupied the area of the modern Marshes Doñana was a gulf or inland sea-arm, but there was not even a small island with sufficient space to house a small village.\n\nTwo hypotheses have put Spartel Bank, a submerged former island in the Strait of Gibraltar, as the location of Atlantis. The more well-known hypothesis was proposed in a September 2001 issue of \"Comptes Rendus de l'Académie des Sciences\" by French geologist Jacques Collina-Girard. The lesser-known hypothesis was first published by Spanish-Cuban investigator Georgeos Díaz-Montexano in an April 2000 issue of Spanish magazine \"Más Allá de la Ciencia\" (Beyond Science), and later in August 2001 issues of Spanish magazines \"El Museo\" (The Museum) and \"Año Cero\" (Year Zero). The origin of Collina-Girard's hypothesis is disputed, with Díaz-Montexano claiming it as plagiarism of his own earlier hypothesis, and Collina-Girard denying any plagiarism. Both individuals claim the other's hypothesis is pseudoscience.\n\nCollina-Girard's hypothesis states that during the most recent Glacial Maximum of the Ice Age sea level was 135 m below its current level, narrowing the Gibraltar Strait and creating a small half-enclosed sea measuring 70 km by 20 km between the Mediterranean and Atlantic Ocean. The Spartel Bank formed an archipelago in this small sea with the largest island measuring about 10 to 12 kilometers across. With rising ocean levels the island began to slowly shrink, but then at around 9400 BC (11,400 years ago) there was an accelerated sea level rise of 4 meters per century known as Meltwater pulse 1A, which drowned the top of the main island. The occurrence of a great earthquake and tsunami in this region, similar to the 1755 Lisbon earthquake (magnitude 8.5-9) was proposed by marine geophysicist Marc-Andrè Gutscher as offering a possible explanation for the described catastrophic destruction (reference — Gutscher, M.-A., 2005. Destruction of Atlantis by a great earthquake and tsunami? A geological analysis of the Spartel Bank hypothesis. Geology, v. 33, p. 685-688.) . Collina-Girard proposes that the disappearance of this island was recorded in prehistoric Egyptian tradition for 5,000 years until it was written down by the first Egyptian scribes around 4000-3000 BC, and the story then subsequently inspired Plato to write a fictionalized version interpreted to illustrate his own principles.\n\nA detailed review in the Bryn Mawr Classical Review comments on the discrepancies in Collina-Girard's dates and use of coincidences, concluding that he \"has certainly succeeded in throwing some light upon some momentous developments in human prehistory in the area west of Gibraltar. Just as certainly, however, he has not found Plato's Atlantis.\"\n\nAccording to Michael Hübner, Atlantis core region was located in South-West Morocco at the Atlantic Ocean. In his papers an approach to the analysis of Plato's dialogues Timaeus and Critias is described. By means of a hierarchical constraint satisfaction procedure, a variety of geographically relevant indications from Plato's accounts are used to infer the most probable location of Plato's \"Atlantis Nesos\". The outcome of this is the Souss-Massa plain in today's South-West Morocco. This plain is surrounded by the High \"Atlas\", the Anti-\"Atlas\", the Sea of \"Atlas\" (Atlantis Thalassa, today's Atlantic Ocean). Because of this isolated position, Hübner argued, this plain was called \"Atlantis Nesos\", the \"Island of Atlas\" by ancient Greeks before the Greek Dark Ages. The Amazigh (Berber) People actually call the Souss-Massa plain \"island\". Of major archaeological interest is the fact that in the North-West of the Souss-Massa plain a large annular caldera-like geomorphologic structure was discovered. This structure has almost the dimensions of Plato's capital of Atlantis and is covered with hundreds of large and small prehistoric ruins of different types. These ruins were made out of rocks coloured red, white and black. Hübner also shows possible harbour remains, an unusually geomorphological structure, which applies to Plato's description of \"roofed over docks, which were cut into red, white and black bedrock\". These 'docks' are located close to the annular geomorphological structure and close to \"Cape Ghir\", which was named \"Cape Heracles\" in antiquity. Hübner also argued, that Agadir is etymologically related to the semitic \"g-d-r\" and probably to Plato's \"Gadir\". The semitic \"g-d-r\" means \"enclosure\", \"fortification\" and \"sheep fold\". The meaning of \"enclosure\", \"sheep fold\" corresponds to the Greek translation of the name \"Gadeiros\" (Crit. 114b) which is \"Eumelos\" = \"Rich in Sheep\".\n\nIt has been thought that when Plato wrote of the \"Sea of Atlantis\", he may have been speaking of the area now called the Atlantic Ocean. The ocean's name, derived from Greek mythology, means the \"Sea of Atlas\". Plato remarked that, in describing the origins of Atlantis, this area was allotted to Poseidon. In Ancient Greek times the terms \"Ocean\" and \"Atlas\" both referred to the 'Giant Water' which surrounded the main landmass known at that time by the Greeks, which could be described as Eurafrasia (although this whole supercontinent was far from completely known to the Ancient Greeks), and thus this water mass was considered to be the 'end of the (known) world', for the same reason the name \"Atlas\" was given to the mountains near the Ocean, the Atlas Mountains, as they also denoted the 'end of the (known) world'.\n\nOne of the suggested places for Atlantis is around the Azores Islands, a group of islands belonging to Portugal located about 900 miles (1500 km) west of the Portuguese coast. Some people believe the islands could be the mountain tops of Atlantis. Ignatius L. Donnelly, an American congressman, was perhaps the first one to talk about this possible location in his book \"Atlantis: The Antediluvian World\". Ignatius L. Donnelly also makes a connection to the mythical Aztlán.\n\nCharles Schuchert, in a paper called \"Atlantis and the Permanency of the North Atlantic Ocean Bottom\" (1917), discussed a lecture by Pierre-Marie Termier in which Termier suggested \"that the entire region north of the Azores and perhaps the very region of the Azores, of which they may be only the visible ruins, was very recently submerged\", reporting evidence that an area of 40,000 sq. mi and possibly as large as 200,000 sq. mi. had sunk 10,000 feet below the surface of the Atlantic Ocean. Schuchert's conclusion was: \"(1) that the Azores are volcanic islands and are not the remnants of a more or less large continental mass, for they are not composed of rocks seen on the continents; (2) that the tachylytes dredged up from the Atlantic to the north of the Azores were in all probability formed where they are now, at the bottom of the ocean; and (3) that there are no known geologic data that prove or even help to prove the existence of Plato's Atlantis in historic times.\"\nThe Azores are steep-sided volcanic seamounts that drop rapidly 1000 meters (about 3300 feet) to a plateau. Cores taken from the plateau and other evidence shows that this area has been an undersea plateau for millions of years. Ancient indicators, i.e. relict beaches, marine deposits, and wave cut-terraces, of Pleistocene shorelines and sea level show that the Azores Islands have not subsided to any significant degree. Instead, they demonstrate that some of these islands have actually risen during the Late and Middle Pleistocene. This is evidenced by relict, Pleistocene wave-cut platforms and beach sediments that now lie well above current sea level. For example, they have been found on Flores Island at elevations of 15-20, 35-45, ~100, and ~250 meters above current sea level.\n\nThe Canary Islands have been identified as remnants of Atlantis by numerous authors. For example, in 1803, Bory de Saint-Vincent in his \"Essai sur les îles fortunées et l'antique Atlantide\" proposed that the Canary Islands, along with the Madeira, and Azores, are what remained after Atlantis broke up. Many later authors, i.e. Lewis Spence in his \"The Problem of Atlantis\", also identified the Canary Islands as part of Atlantis left over from when it sank.\n\nDetailed geomorphic and geologic studies of the Canary Islands clearly demonstrate that over the last 4 million years, they have been steadily uplifted, without any significant periods of subsidence, by geologic processes such as erosional unloading, gravitational unloading, lithospheric flexure induced by adjacent islands, and volcanic underplating. For example, Pliocene pillow lavas, which solidified underwater and now exposed on the northeast flanks of Gran Canaria, have been uplifted between 46 and 143 meters above sea level. Also, marine deposits associated with lavas dated as being 4.1 and 9.3 million years old in Gran Canaria, ca. 4.8 million years old in Fuerteventura, and ca. 9.8 million years old in Lanzarote demonstrate that the Canary Islands have for millions of years undergone long term uplift without any significant, much less catastrophic, subsidence. A series of raised, Pleistocene marine terraces, which become progressively older with age, on Fuerteventura indicate that it has risen in elevation at about 1.7 cm per thousand years for the past one million years. The elevation of the marine terrace for the highstand of sea level for the last interglacial period shows that this island has experienced neither subsidence nor significant uplift for the past 125,000 years. Within the Cape Verde Islands, the detailed mapping and dating of 16 Pleistocene marine terraces and Pliocene marine conglomerate found that they have been uplifted throughout most of the Pleistocene and remained relatively stable without any significant subsidence since the last interglacial period. Finally, detailed studies of the sedimentary deposits surrounding the Canary Islands have demonstrated, except for a narrow rim around each island exposed during glacial lowstands of sea level, a complete lack of any evidence for the ocean floor surrounding the Canary Islands having ever been above water.\n\nAccording to Jorge Maria Ribero-Meneses, Atlantis was in northern Spain. He specifically argues that Atlantis is the underwater plateau, known internationally as \"Le Danois Bank\" and locally as \"The Cachucho\". It is located about 25 kilometers from the continental shelf and about 60 km off the coast of Asturias, and Lastres between Ribadesella. Its top is now 425 meters below the sea. It is 50 kilometers from east to west and 18 km from north to south. Ribero-Meneses hypothesized that is part of the continental margin that broke off at least 12000 years ago as the result of tectonic processes that occurred at the end of the last ice age. He argues that they created a tsunami with waves with heights of hundreds of meters and that the few survivors had to start virtually from scratch.\n\nDetailed studies of the geology of the Le Danois Bank region have refuted the hypothesis proposed by Jorge Maria Ribero-Meneses that the Le Danois Bank was created by the collapse of the northern Cantabrian continental margin about 12,000 years ago. The Le Danois Bank represents part of the continental margin that have been uplifted by thrust faulting when the continental margin overrode oceanic crust during the Paleogene and Neogene periods. Along the northern edge of the Le Danois Bank, Precambrian granulite and Mesozoic sedimentary rocks have been thrust northward over Miocene and Oligocene marine sediments. The basin separating the Le Danois Bank from the Cantabrian continental margin to the south is a graben that simultaneously formed as a result of normal faulting associated with the thrust faulting. In addition, marine sediments that range in age from lower Pliocene to Pleistocene, cover large parts of Le Danois Bank, and fill the basin separating it from the Cantabrian continental margin demonstrate that this bank has been submerged beneath the Bay of Biscay for millions of years.\n\nIn his book \"Atlantis of the West: The Case For Britain's Drowned Megalithic Civilization\" (2003), Paul Dunbavin argues that a large island once existed in the Irish Sea and that this island was Atlantis. He argues that this Neolithic civilization in Europe was partially drowned by rising sea levels caused by a comet impact that caused a pole shift and changed the earth's axis around 3100 BC. Such changes would be readily detectable to modern science, however, and Dunbavin's claims are considered pseudo-scientific at best within the scientific community.\n\nWilliam Comyns Beaumont believed that Great Britain was the location of Atlantis and the Scottish journalist Lewis Spence claimed that the ancient traditions of Britain and Ireland contain memories of Atlantis.\n\nOn December 29, 1997, the BBC reported that a team of Russian scientists believed they found Atlantis in the ocean 100 miles off of Land's End, Cornwall, Britain. The BBC stated that Little Sole Bank, a relatively shallow area, was believed by the team to be the capital of Atlantis. This may have been based on the myth of Lyonesse.\n\nThe idea of Atlantis being located in Ireland was presented in the book \"Atlantis from a Geographer's Perspective: Mapping the Fairy Land\" (2004) by Swedish geographer Dr. Ulf Erlingsson from Uppsala University. It hypothesized that the empire of Atlantis refers to the Neolithic Megalithic tomb culture, based on their similar geographic extent, and deduced that the island of Atlantis then must correspond to Ireland. Erlingsson found the similarities of size and landscape to be statistically significant, while he rejected his null hypothesis that Plato invented Atlantis as fiction.\n\nThe North Sea is known to contain lands that were once above water; the medieval town of Dunwich in East Anglia, for example, crumbled into the sea. The land area known as \"Doggerland\", between England and Denmark, was inundated by a tsunami around 8200BP (6200BC), caused by a submarine landslide off the coast of Norway known as the Storegga Slide, and prehistoric human remains have been dredged up from the Dogger Bank. Atlantis itself has been identified besides Heligoland off the north-west German coast by the author Jürgen Spanuth, who postulates that it was destroyed during the Bronze Age around 1200 BC, only to partially re-emerge during the Iron Age. Ulf Erlingsson hypothesized that the island that sank referred to Dogger Bank, and the city itself referred to the Silverpit crater at the base of Dogger Bank. A book allegedly by Oera Linda claims that a land called Atland once existed in the North Sea, but was destroyed in 2194 BC.\n\nIn his book \"The Celts: The People Who Came Out of the Darkness\" (1975), author Gerhard Herm links the origins of the Atlanteans to the end of the ice age and the flooding of eastern coastal Denmark.\n\nFinnish eccentric Ior Bock located Atlantis in the Baltic sea, at southern part of Finland where he claimed a small community of people lived during the Ice Age. According to Bock, this was possible due to Gulf Stream which brought warm water to the Finnish coast. This is a small part of a large \"saga\" that he claimed had been told in his family through the ages, dating back to the development of language itself. The family saga tells the name Atlantis comes from Swedish words \"allt-land-is\" (\"all-land-ice\") and refers to the last Ice-Age. Thus in the Bock family saga it's more a time period than an exact geographical place. According to this the Atlantis disappeared in 8016 BC when the Ice-Age ended in Finland and the ice melted away.\n\nIn 1679 Olaus Rudbeck wrote \"Atland\" (\"Atlantica\"), where he argues that Scandinavia, specifically Sweden, is identical with Atlantis. According to Rudbeck the capital city of Atlantis was identical to the ancient burial site of Swedish kings \"Gamla Uppsala\".\n\nUntil the discovery of the New World scholars believed that Atlantis was either a metaphor for teaching philosophy, or just attributed the story to Plato without connecting the island with a real location. When Columbus returned from his voyage to the west historians began identifying the Americas with Atlantis. The first was Francisco López de Gómara, who in 1552 thought that what Columbus had discovered was the Atlantic Island of Plato.\n\nIn 1556 Agustín de Zárate stated that the Americas was Atlantis which at one time began from the straits of Gibraltar and extended westwards to include North and South America and that it was as a result of Plato that the new continent was discovered. He also said it had all the attributes of the continent described by Plato yet at the same time mentioned that the ancient peoples crossed over by a route from the island of Atlantis. Zarate also mentions that the 9,000 \"years\" of Plato were 9,000 \"months\" (750 years).\n\nThis was also repeated and clarified by historian Pedro Sarmiento de Gamboa in 1572 in his \"History of the Incas\", who by calculation of longitude stated that Atlantis must have stretched from within two leagues of the strait of Gibraltar westwards to include \"all the rest of the land from the mouth of the Marañon (Amazon River) and Brazil to the South Sea, which is what they now call America.\" He thought the sunken part to be now in the Atlantic Ocean but that it was from this sunken part that the original Indians had come to populate Peru via one continuous land mass. He says that South America was also known by the name of the Isla Atlanticus.\n\nIt first appeared as the Atlantic Island (Insula Atlantica) on a map of the New World by cartographer Sebastian Münster in 1540 and again on the map titled Atlantis Insula by Nicolas Sanson and son (1669) which identified both North and South America as \"Atlantis Insula\", the eastern part of the Atlantic Ocean as \"Oceanus Atlanticus\" and the western part of the Atlantic Ocean plus the Pacific Ocean as \"Atlanticum Pelagus\". This edition was further embellished with features from the Atlantis legend by his son Guillaume Sanson including the names of the ten kings of Atlantis with Atlas' portion being in Mexico. Sanson's map supposedly showed what the earth looked like 200,000 years before there were any humans on it.\n\nFrancis Bacon and Alexander von Humboldt also identified America with Atlantis; Janus Joannes Bircherod said in 1663 \"orbe novo non novo\" (\"the New World is not new\").\n\nThere have been suggestions for Atlantis to be placed outside of the Mediterranean Sea or the Atlantic Ocean. Such locations are outside of the known world of the original sources of the legend.\n\nThe theory that Antarctica was Atlantis was particularly fashionable during the 1960s and 1970s, spurred on partly both by the isolation of the continent, and also the Piri Reis map, which purportedly shows Antarctica as it would be ice free, suggesting human knowledge of that period. Flavio Barbiero, Charles Berlitz, Erich Von Däniken and Peter Kolosimo are some of the popular authors who made this proposal.\n\nMore recently Rose and Rand Flem-Ath have proposed this in their book, \"When the Sky Fell\"; the theory was revised and made more specific in Rand's work with author Colin Wilson, in \"The Atlantis Blueprint\" (published in 2002). The second work theorized that Atlantis was to be found in Lesser Antarctica, near the coast of the Ross Ice Shelf. A geological theory known as \"Earth Crust Displacement\" forms the basis of their work. The Atlantis Blueprint uses both scientific and pseudoscientific (such as mere speculation and assumptions) means to back up the theory.\n\nCharles Hapgood came up with the \"Earth Crustal Displacement theory\". Hapgood's theory suggests that Earth's outer crust is able to move upon the upper mantle layer rapidly up to a distance of 2,000 miles, placing Atlantis in Antarctica, when considering the movements of the crust in the past. It is to be noted that Albert Einstein was one of the few voices to answer Hapgood's theory. Einstein wrote a preface for Hapgood's book \"Earth's shifting crust\", published in 1958. This theory is particularly popular with Hollow Earthers, and can be seen as a mirror of the Hyperborean identification. In his book \"Fingerprints of the Gods\", author Graham Hancock argues for the Earth Crustal Displacement theory in general, and the Atlantis/Antarctica connection specifically, then goes on to propose archaeological exploration of Antarctica in search of Atlantis.\n\nThe professor of systematic theology at Boston University William Fairfield Warren (1833–1929) wrote a book promoting his theory that the original centre of mankind once sat at the North Pole entitled \"Paradise Found: The Cradle of the Human Race at the North Pole\" (1885). In this work Warren placed Atlantis at the North Pole, as well as the Garden of Eden, Mount Meru, Avalon and Hyperborea. Warren believed all these mythical lands were folk memories of a former inhabited far northern seat where man was originally created.\n\nOne location that has been proposed for the location of Atlantis is the Richat Structure. It is nearby Ouadane, which was a learning center. The structure's dimensions are claimed to be similar to those described by Plato. This structure is generally considered to be a deeply eroded domal structure that overlies a still-buried alkaline igneous intrusion.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "517472", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=517472", "title": "Logarithmic timeline", "text": "Logarithmic timeline\n\nA logarithmic timeline is a timeline laid out according to a logarithmic scale. This necessarily implies a zero point and an infinity point, neither of which can be displayed. The most natural zero point is the Big Bang, looking forward, but the most common is the ever-changing present, looking backward. (Also possible is a zero point in the present, looking forward to the infinite future.)\n\nThe idea of presenting history logarithmically goes back at least to 1932, when John B. Sparks copyrighted his chart \"Histomap of Evolution\". Around the same time it was also explored by the cyberneticist Heinz von Foerster, who used it to propose that memories naturally fade in an exponential manner. Logarithmic timelines have also been used in future studies to justify the idea of a technological singularity.\n\nA logarithmic scale enables events throughout time to be presented accurately, but enables more events to be included closer to one end. Sparks explained this by stating:\n\nTwo examples of such timelines are shown below, while a more comprehensive version (similar to that of Sparks' \"Histomap\") can be found at Detailed logarithmic timeline.\n\nIn this table each row is defined in seconds after the Big Bang, with earliest at the top of the chart. (see Cosmological decade)\n\nThe present time is approximately seconds after the Big Bang; the Sun and Earth formed about seconds after the Big Bang. 10 seconds is 3 trillion years ( years) in the future.\n\nIn this table each row is defined in \"years ago\", that is, years before the present date, with the most recent at the top of the chart. Each event is an occurrence of an observed or inferred process. (Note that the logarithmic scale never actually gets to zero.)\n\n"}
{"id": "2978070", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2978070", "title": "Lucius Lucceius", "text": "Lucius Lucceius\n\nLucius Lucceius, Roman orator and historian, friend and correspondent of Cicero. A man of considerable wealth and literary tastes, he may be compared with Atticus. Disgusted at his failure to become consul in 60 BC, he retired from public life, and devoted himself to writing a history of the Social and Civil Wars. This was nearly completed, when Cicero earnestly requested him to write a separate history of his (Cicero's) consulship. Cicero thought that a panegyric by Lucceius, who had taken considerable interest in the affairs of that critical period, would have great weight in his campaign to rehabilitate himself after the exile stemming from his consulship. Cicero offered to supply the material, and hinted that Lucceius need not sacrifice laudation to accuracy. Lucceius almost promised, but did not perform. Subsequently, Cicero had to sing his own praises in both Greek and Latin, but nothing remains of any such work or of his history. In the civil war he took the side of Pompey; but, having been pardoned by Caesar, returned to Rome, where he lived in retirement until his death.\n\n"}
{"id": "1470347", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1470347", "title": "Marxists Internet Archive", "text": "Marxists Internet Archive\n\nMarxists Internet Archive (also known as MIA or Marxists.org) is a non-profit website that hosts a multilingual library (created in 1990) of the works of Marxist, communist, socialist, and anarchist writers, such as Karl Marx, Friedrich Engels, Vladimir Lenin, Leon Trotsky, Rosa Luxemburg, Che Guevara, Mikhail Bakunin, and Pierre-Joseph Proudhon, as well as that of writers of related ideologies, and even unrelated ones (for instance, Sun Tzu and Adam Smith). The collection is maintained by volunteers, and is based on a collection of documents that were distributed by email and newsgroups, later collected into a single gopher site in 1993. It contains over 53,000 documents from over 600 authors in 61 languages.\n\nThe archive was created in 1990 by a person — known only by his Internet tag, Zodiac — who started archiving Marxist texts by transcribing the works of Marx and Engels into E-text, starting with the \"Communist Manifesto\". In 1993 the accumulated text was posted on a gopher site at csf.colorado.edu. Volunteers joined and helped spread and mirror the main archive. However, the main site and its mirrors were hosted on academic servers and by the end of 1995 almost all had been shut down.\n\nBy 1996 the website, Marx.org, was hosted by a commercial ISP. This was followed by an increased activity from the volunteers. In the following years, however, a conflict developed between the volunteers working on the website and Zodiac, who retained control of the project and domain name. As the scope of the archive expanded, Zodiac feared that the opening toward diverse currents of Marxism was a \"slippery slope\" toward sectarianism. The volunteers who had been undertaking the work of transcribing texts resented having little influence over the way in which the archive was organized and run. In early 1998 Zodiac decided that Marx.org would return to its roots and that all writers other than Marx and Engels would be removed.\n\nIn July 1998 the present form of the Marxists Internet Archive (marxists.org) was created by volunteers transferring files and archives from Marx.org. This led to a further increase in activity and an enlargement of the scope of the archive. As for Marx.org, Zodiac closed it down in 1999, and in 2002 he gave up the domain name, which was purchased by the MIA. Along with marx.org and marxists.org, the MIA can be reached by two other domain names: lenin.org and trotsky.org.\n\nThe site, and the group of volunteers working on it, has dramatically changed since its early beginnings. By 2014 it had grown to encompass 62 volunteers in 33 different countries, and held over 50,000 items in 54 languages covering the works of over 600 authors. Today the Marxists Internet Archive is a recognized repository for both Marxist and non-Marxist writers. It is listed in the OCLC WorldCat catalog, and has been selected for archiving by institutions such as the British Library and Ireland's University College Cork.\n\nAs with many politically oriented internet sites, MIA has had problems with malicious attacks from online sources. Beginning in November 2006, the Marxists Internet Archive faced a number of serious denial-of-service attacks, attempting to exploit a misconfiguration in their server's operating system. By January 2007 the attacks had crippled much of the archive, and left volunteers with CPU issues. That the majority of systems involved in the attack were either in China or belonging to Chinese institutions led to speculation that the attacks may have been politically motivated and directed by the People's Republic of China. The severity of the attack, coupled with other hosting issues, led to the closure of the Marxists Internet Archive's main server and several of its mirrors for a number of weeks in February and March 2007. The problem was rectified.\n\nIn late April 2014, the small British publishers Lawrence and Wishart chose to revoke their permission for their English language version of the Marx/Engels Collected Works to be reprinted in part on MIA. In an email in late April 2014, L&W asked MIA to delete the contested material from their website by the end of April or face litigation. MIA chose to follow the request. An online petition was started against the L&W decision, and had the support of more than 4,500 people by the end of the month. The author of the petition, Ammar Aziz, was quoted in \"Vice\" magazine: \"You cannot privatize their writings—they are the collective property of the people they wrote for. Privatization of Marx and Engels' writings is like getting a trademark for the words 'socialism' or ‘communism.'\"\n\nA representative of MIA, Andy Blunden, did not dispute that L&W has copyright over the material. He was quoted in the Washington D.C. based \"Chronicle of Higher Education\": \"The professors and the historians will be able to write learned articles about what Marx said, but the general population are going to be left back in 1975\", the year when the publication of the Collected Works began.\n\nIn response to widespread criticism, Lawrence and Wishart issued a statement objecting to the \"campaign of online abuse.\"\n\nThe MIA is controlled by a steering committee. The committee decides issues such as the categorization of writers, modifications to the bylaws (by 3/4 majority), financial issues of all kinds, and similar matters. Administrators are unpaid volunteers who assume additional responsibilities over certain section(s) of MIA.\n\nThe MIA is incorporated in the U.S. state of California and registered with the U.S. tax service as a non-profit, 501(c)(3) organization.\n\nAccording to the MIA charter, its content will always be offered 100% free, in compliance with all capitalist copyright laws. All the material stored in the archives is either public domain, under the GNU Free Documentation License, or used with the copyright holders' permission. Any work created by MIA volunteers is under the Creative Commons Attribute, Share-Alike 2.0 license.\n\nThe website is primarily served via an ISP in Germany, and four mirrors exist, two of them in Europe (in France, and Germany), one in Australia, and one in India. In addition, there is a mirror of the MIA's Spanish-language Section in the US state of Arizona.\n\nA 3 CD/DVD volume archive (containing the material on the website) was sold, although many copies were distributed every year for free to individuals and groups in developing and underdeveloped countries, through 2013. It was decided at this point given the size of the MIA at almost 120 GB to distribute a portable USB hardrive that contains the entire contents of the MIA on it. The DVD is now discontinued. As of March 2014, the MIA was 138 GB.\n\nThese measures are not only meant to allow easy access to the material in the archive, but also as a way of ensuring the continuity of the archive. As they put it: \"If the Archive is shut down by a publishing conglomerate or the government, having this information widely dispersed around the world, essentially untraceable, with the content entirely intact, is a great thing.\"\n\nIn addition to distribution of its hard drive archives, in 2008 the MIA launched Marxist Internet Archive Publications, which has, as of November 2010, published seven titles in philosophy, social history, and Soviet psychology and pedagogy, which it distributes through Erythrós Press.\n\nMost of material on the website is formatted in HTML, and the style of the documents is determined with CSS. PDF is sometimes used, especially for languages which don't yet have computer fonts or OCR software available. Many PDFs have been added for the purposes of putting up revolutionary and socialist publications, presented as they were printed. This has added to the bulk of the growth of the MIA.\n\nThe markup and style of the archive varies from one section to the other, depending on the volunteers who work there, but all are built on a common basic document template.\n\nThe archive includes section dedicated to specific historical topics, such as the history of the Soviet Union and the Paris Commune as well as broader subject topics, such as philosophy. It also includes a reference section called the \"Encyclopedia of Marxism\", containing definitions of Marxist terms, short biographies, and historical material.\n\nThe MIA is also divided into a number of non-English language sections. As of May 1, 2014, the MIA website included content in 61 languages. Although each of the non-English sections is intended over time to replicate the basic structure of the main (English-language) section, in practice these vary widely in size and scope. Some of these archives have only a few documents by Marx and Engels, while others are more extensive—for example, the Chinese section has the complete collected works of Marx, Engels, and Lenin.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28047", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28047", "title": "Memorials and services for the September 11 attacks", "text": "Memorials and services for the September 11 attacks\n\nThe first memorials to the victims of the September 11 attacks in 2001 began to take shape online, as hundreds of webmasters posted their own thoughts, links to the Red Cross and other rescue agencies, photos, and eyewitness accounts. Numerous online September 11 memorials began appearing a few hours after the attacks, although many of these memorials were only temporary. Around the world, U.S. embassies and consulates became makeshift memorials as people came out to pay their respects.\n\nThe \"Tribute in Light\" was the first major physical memorial at the World Trade Center site. A permanent memorial and museum, the National September 11 Memorial & Museum at the World Trade Center, were built as part of the design for overall site redevelopment. The Memorial consists of two massive pools set within the original footprints of the Twin Towers with waterfalls cascading down their sides. The names of the victims of the attacks are inscribed around the edges of the waterfalls. Other permanent memorials are being constructed around the world.\n\nOne of the places that saw many memorials and candlelight vigils was Pier A in Hoboken, New Jersey. There was also a memorial service on March 11, 2002, at dusk on Pier A when the \"Tribute in Light\" first turned on, marking the half-year anniversary of the terrorist attack. A permanent September 11 memorial for Hoboken, called Hoboken Island, was chosen in September 2004.\n\nSoon after the attacks, temporary memorials were set up in New York and elsewhere.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe Raoul Wallenberg Award was given to New York City in 2001 \"For all of its citizens who searched for the missing, cared for the injured, gave comfort to loved ones of the missing or lost, and provided sustenance and encouragement to those who searched through the rubble at Ground Zero.\"\n\nOn February 3, 2002, during the Halftime Show of Super Bowl XXXVI, rock group U2 performed Where the Streets Have No Name, while the names of the victims were projected onto banners. Bono opened his jacket to reveal a U.S. flag pattern sewn in the inside lining.\n\nOn February 23, 2003, the 45th Annual Grammy Awards were held at Madison Square Garden and paid tribute to those who died during the 9/11 attacks, to whom the ceremony was dedicated. Ceremony host Bruce Springsteen performed \"The Rising\" at the Awards.\n\nAmerican country singer Darryl Worley paid tribute to the people with his 2003 single, \"Have You Forgotten?\" from the album of the same name.\n\nNewark International Airport was renamed \"Newark Liberty International Airport\".\n\nOn September 11, 2002, representatives from over 90 countries came to Battery Park City as New York City Mayor Michael Bloomberg lit an eternal flame to mark the first anniversary of the attacks. Leading the dignitaries were Canadian Prime Minister Jean Chrétien, U.N. Secretary General Kofi Annan, Bloomberg, and Secretary of State Colin Powell. The same day, the Victims of Terrorist Attack on the Pentagon Memorial was dedicated at Arlington National Cemetery near the Pentagon. The memorial is dedicated to the five individuals at the Pentagon whose remains were never found, and the partial remains of another 25 victims are buried beneath the memorial. The names of the 184 victims of the Pentagon attack are inscribed on the memorial's side.\n\nMany organizations held memorial services and events for the 10th anniversary of the attacks.\n\nEvery year on September 11 a commemoration is held at the National September 11 Memorial. Family members read the names of victims of the attacks, as well as victims of the 1993 World Trade Center truck bombing. Elected officials and other dignitaries attend, but since the 2012 event they have not given speeches.\n\n\nThe National 9/11 Flag was made from a tattered remains of a American flag found by recovery workers in the early morning of September 12, 2001. It was hanging precariously from some scaffolding at a construction site next to Ground Zero. Because of safety reasons the flag could not be taken down until late October 2001. Charlie Vitchers, a construction superintendent for the Ground Zero cleanup effort, had a crew recover the flag. It was placed in storage for seven years.\n\nThe flag has made a number appearances across the country including a Boston Red Sox Game, a New York Giants Home Opener, and the USS \"New York\" Commissioning Ceremony. It also appeared on the CBS Evening News and on ABC World News Tonight \"Persons of the Week.\"\n\nThe flag began a national tour on Flag day, which was on June 14, 2009. It will visit all 50 states where service heroes, veterans, and other honorees will each add stitching and material from other retired American flags in order to restore the original 13 stripes of the flag. The flag will have a permanent home at the National September 11 Memorial and Museum.\n\nThe 9-11 Remembrance Flag was created to be a permanent reminder of the thousands of people lost in the September 11 attacks. The purpose of keeping the memories of September 11 alive is not to be forever mourning, but for \"learning from the circumstances and making every effort to prevent similar tragedies in our future.\" The flag is also meant to be a reminder of how the people of this country came together to help each other after the attacks. The red background of the flag represents the blood shed by Americans for their country. The stars represent the lost airplanes and their passengers. The blue rectangles stand for the twin towers and the white pentagon represents the Pentagon building. The blue circle symbolizes the unity of this country after the attacks.\n\nThe 9/11 National Remembrance Flag was designed by Stephan and Joanne Galvin soon after September 11, 2001. They wanted to do something to help and were inspired by a neighbor's POW/MIA flag. They wanted to sell the flag so people would remember the September 11 attacks and in order to raise money for relief efforts. The blue represents the colors of the state flags that were involved in the attacks. The black represents sorrow for innocent lives lost. The four stars stand for the four planes that crashed and the lives lost, both in the crash and in the rescue efforts, as well as the survivors. The blue star is a representation of American Airlines Flight 77 and the Pentagon. The two white stars represent American Airlines Flight 11 and United Airlines flight 175, as well as the twin towers. The red star stands for United Flight 93 that crashed in Shanksville, Pennsylvania and all those who sacrifice their lives to protect the innocent. The colors of the stars represent the American flag. The four stars are touching each other and the blue parts of the flag in order to symbolize the unity of the people of the United States.\n\nThe National Flag of Honor and the National Flag of Heroes were created by John Michelotti for three main reasons: (1)\"To immortalize the individual victims that were killed in the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001.\" (2)\"To give comfort to the families left behind knowing that their loved one will be forever honored and remembered.\" (2)\"To create an enduring symbol, recognized by the world, of the human sacrifice that occurred on September 11, 2001.\"\n\nThe Flag of Honor and the Flag of Heroes are based on the American flag. They both have the names of all the innocent people who were killed in the September 11 attacks printed on the red and white stripes of the American Flag. Both flags have a white space across the bottom with the name of the flag and a description printed in black. The Flag of Honor reads: \"This flag contains the names of those killed in the terrorist attacks of September 11. Now and forever it will represent their immortality. We shall never forget them\" The Flag of Heroes reads: \" This flag contains the names of the emergency service personnel who gave their lives to save others in the terrorist attacks of September 11. Now and forever it will represent their immortality. We shall never forget them.\"\n\nThe Flag of Honor and the Flag of Heroes were featured at the NYC 9/11 Memorial Field 5th Anniversary in Manhattan's Inwood Hill Park September 8–12, 2006. There 3,000 flags which represented those who died in the September 11 attacks. The flags were also featured on the msnbc Today Show and on ABC 13 News, Norfolk, VA.\n\nThe Remembrance Flag has a white background with large, black Roman numerals IX/XI in the center and four black stars across the top. The IX/XI are the Roman numerals for 9/11. The four stars represent World Trade Center North, World Trade Center South, the Pentagon, and Shanksville, PA.\n\nThe 10th Anniversary September 11 Memorial Flag was designed by Carrot-Top Industries, a privately owned company in Hillsborough, NC. The exclusive 9/11 memorial flag was designed with the two World Trade Towers set inside a pentagon decorated with a ribbon to commemorate all of the Americans that lost their lives on September 11, 2001.\n\nThe growing popularity of virtual worlds such as Secondlife has led to the construction of permanent virtual memorials and exhibits. Examples include:\n\nOn September 11, 2007, a virtual reality World Trade Center Memorial will be presented to the people of the world. The location is in Second Life, on the island we have named after the original design: Celestial Requiem NYC. We have built this memorial because, to be blunt, the world needed it done years ago, and the two years longer to await the completion of the \"Reflected Absence\" memorial in New York city (by Michael Arad and Peter Walker) was in our opinion two years too long.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4718632", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4718632", "title": "Mental representation", "text": "Mental representation\n\nA mental representation (or cognitive representation), in philosophy of mind, cognitive psychology, neuroscience, and cognitive science, is a hypothetical internal cognitive symbol that represents external reality, or else a mental process that makes use of such a symbol: \"a formal system for making explicit certain entities or types of information, together with a specification of how the system does this\".\n\nMental representation is the mental imagery of things that are not actually present to the senses. In contemporary philosophy, specifically in fields of metaphysics such as philosophy of mind and ontology, a mental representation is one of the prevailing ways of explaining and describing the nature of ideas and concepts.\n\nMental representations (or mental imagery) enable representing things that have never been experienced as well as things that do not exist. Think of yourself traveling to a place you have never visited before, or having a third arm. These things have either never happened or are impossible and do not exist, yet our brain and mental imagery allows us to imagine them. Although visual imagery is more likely to be recalled, mental imagery may involve representations in any of the sensory modalities, such as hearing, smell, or taste. Stephen Kosslyn proposes that images are used to help solve certain types of problems. We are able to visualize the objects in question and mentally represent the images to solve it.\n\nMental representations also allow people to experience things right in front of them—though the process of how the brain interprets the representational content is debated.\n\nRepresentationalism (also known as indirect realism) is the view that representations are the main way we access external reality. Another major prevailing philosophical theory posits that concepts are entirely abstract objects.\n\nThe representational theory of mind attempts to explain the nature of ideas, concepts and other mental content in contemporary philosophy of mind, cognitive science and experimental psychology. In contrast to theories of naive or direct realism, the representational theory of mind postulates the actual existence of mental representations which act as intermediaries between the observing subject and the objects, processes or other entities observed in the external world. These intermediaries stand for or represent to the mind the objects of that world.\n\nFor example, when someone arrives at the belief that his or her floor needs sweeping, the representational theory of mind states that he or she forms a mental representation that represents the floor and its state of cleanliness.\n\nThe original or \"classical\" representational theory probably can be traced back to Thomas Hobbes and was a dominant theme in classical empiricism in general. According to this version of the theory, the mental representations were images (often called \"ideas\") of the objects or states of affairs represented. For modern adherents, such as Jerry Fodor, Steven Pinker and many others, the representational system consists rather of an internal language of thought (i.e., mentalese). The contents of thoughts are represented in symbolic structures (the formulas of Mentalese) which, analogously to natural languages but on a much more abstract level, possess a syntax and semantics very much like those of natural languages. For the Spanish logician and cognitive scientist Luis M. Augusto, at this abstract, formal level, the syntax of thought is the set of symbol rules (i.e., operations, processes, etc. on and with symbol structures) and the semantics of thought is the set of symbol structures (concepts and propositions). Content (i.e., thought) emerges from the meaningful co-occurrence of both sets of symbols. For instance, \"8 x 9\" is a meaningful co-occurrence, whereas \"CAT x §\" is not; \"x\" is a symbol rule called for by symbol structures such as \"8\" and \"9\", but not by \"CAT\" and \"§\".\n\nThere are two types of representationalism, strong and weak. Strong representationalism attempts to reduce phenomenal character to intentional content. On the other hand, weak representationalism claims only that phenomenal character supervenes on intentional content. Strong representationalism aims to provide a theory about the nature of phenomenal character, and offers a solution to the hard problem of consciousness. In contrast to this, weak representationalism does not aim to provide a theory of consciousness, nor does it offer a solution to the hard problem of consciousness.\n\nStrong representationalism can be further broken down into restricted and unrestricted versions. The restricted version deals only with certain kinds of phenomenal states e.g. visual perception. Most representationalists endorse an unrestricted version of representationalism. According to the unrestricted version, for any state with phenomenal character that state’s phenomenal character reduces to its intentional content. Only this unrestricted version of representationalism is able to provide a general theory about the nature of phenomenal character, as well as offer a potential solution to the hard problem of consciousness. The successful reduction of the phenomenal character of a state to its intentional content would provide a solution to the hard problem of consciousness once a physicalist account of intentionality is worked out.\n\nWhen arguing against the unrestricted version of representationalism people will often bring up phenomenal mental states that appear to lack intentional content. The unrestricted version seeks to account for all phenomenal states. Thus, for it to be true, all states with phenomenal character must have intentional content to which that character is reduced. Phenomenal states without intentional content therefore serve as a counterexample to the unrestricted version. If the state has no intentional content its phenomenal character will not be reducible to that state’s intentional content, for it has none to begin with.\n\nA common example of this kind of state are moods. Moods are states with phenomenal character that are generally thought to not be directed at anything in particular. Moods are thought to lack directedness, unlike emotions, which are typically thought to be directed at particular things e.g. you are mad \"at\" your sibling, you are afraid \"of\" a dangerous animal. People conclude that because moods are undirected they are also nonintentional i.e. they lack intentionality or aboutness. Because they are not directed at anything they are not about anything. Because they lack intentionality they will lack any intentional content. Lacking intentional content their phenomenal character will not be reducible to intentional content, refuting the representational doctrine.\n\nThough emotions are typically considered as having directedness and intentionality this idea has also been called into question. One might point to emotions a person all of a sudden experiences that do not appear to be directed at or about anything in particular. Emotions elicited by listening to music are another potential example of undirected, nonintentional emotions. Emotions aroused in this way do not seem to necessarily be about anything, including the music that arouses them.\n\nIn response to this objection a proponent of representationalism might reject the undirected nonintentionality of moods, and attempt to identify some intentional content they might plausibly be thought to possess. The proponent of representationalism might also reject the narrow conception of intentionality as being directed at a particular thing, arguing instead for a broader kind of intentionality.\n\nThere are three alternative kinds of directedness/intentionality one might posit for moods. \nIn the case of outward directedness moods might be directed at either the world as a whole, a changing series of objects in the world, or unbound emotion properties projected by people onto things in the world. In the case of inward directedness moods are directed at the overall state of a person’s body. In the case of hybrid directedness moods are directed at some combination of inward and outward things.\n\nEven if one can identify some possible intentional content for moods we might still question whether that content is able to sufficiently capture the phenomenal character of the mood states they are a part of. Amy Kind contends that in the case of all the previously mentioned kinds of directedness (outward, inward, and hybrid) the intentional content supplied to the mood state is not capable of sufficiently capturing the phenomenal aspects of the mood states. In the case of inward directedness, the phenomenology of the mood does not seem tied to the state of one’s body, and even if one’s mood is reflected by the overall state of one’s body that person will not necessarily be aware of it, demonstrating the insufficiency of the intentional content to adequately capture the phenomenal aspects of the mood. In the case of outward directedness, the phenomenology of the mood and its intentional content do not seem to share the corresponding relation they should given that the phenomenal character is supposed to reduce to the intentional content. Hybrid directedness, if it can even get off the ground, faces the same objection.\n\nThere is a wide debate on what kinds of representations exist. There are several philosophers who bring about different aspects of the debate. Such philosophers include Alex Morgan, Gualtiero Piccinini, and Uriah Kriegel—though this is not an exhaustive list.\n\nThere are \"job description\" representations. That is representations that (1) represent something—have intentionality, (2) have a special relation—the represented object does not need to exist, and (3) content plays a causal role in what gets represented: e.g. saying \"hello\" to a friend, giving a glare to an enemy.\n\nStructural representations are also important. These types of representations are basically mental maps that we have in our minds that correspond exactly to those objects in the world (the intentional content). According to Morgan, structural representations are not the same as mental representations—there is nothing mental about them: plants can have structural representations.\n\nThere are also internal representations. These types of representations include those that involve future decisions, episodic memories, or any type of projection into the future.\n\nIn Gualtiero Piccinini's forthcoming work, he discusses topics on natural and nonnatural mental representations. He relies on the natural definition of mental representations given by Grice (1957) where \"P entails that P\". e.g. Those spots mean measles, entails that the patient has measles. Then there are nonnatural representations: \"P does not entail P\". e.g. The 3 rings on the bell of a bus mean the bus is full—the rings on the bell are independent of the fullness of the bus—we could have assigned something else (just as arbitrary) to signify that the bus is full.\n\nThere are also objective and subjective mental representations. Objective representations are closest to tracking theories—where the brain simply tracks what is in the environment. If there is a blue bird outside my window, the objective representation is that of the blue bird. Subjective representations can vary person-to-person. For example, if I am colorblind, that blue bird outside my window will not \"appear\" blue to me since I cannot represent the blueness of blue (i.e. I cannot see the color blue). The relationship between these two types of representation can vary.\n\nEliminativists think that subjective representations don't exist. Reductivists think subjective representations are reducible to objective. Non-reductivists think that subjective representations are real and distinct.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55912002", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55912002", "title": "Miles Larmer", "text": "Miles Larmer\n\nMiles Larmer is professor of African history and fellow of St Antony's College, University of Oxford.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31169992", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31169992", "title": "Military-digital complex", "text": "Military-digital complex\n\nThe military-digital complex (MDC) is the militarization of Cyber Operations by governments and corporations, often through monetary relationships between computer programmers in private companies and the military to combat the threat of cyber terrorism and warfare. Cyber operations since 2000 have increased dramatically, with the recent branch of the US Strategic Command the United States Cyber Command. Cyber operations has been defined by the Washington Post as,\nAs cyber attacks become an increasingly common threat to the security of civilians and highly classified governmental information, a need to combat the threat by means of Computer network operations and Computer Network Defense have arisen. It is important to note however that protection is only one component of the Military-digital complex and that the use of Information Warfare within the complex can be used to achieve military operations and an upper-hand in economic exploits.\n\nThe Military-digital complex contains many components which align it succinctly to its industrial counterpart, for example the use of defense contractors. Although hired Contractors may not be explicitly named as such they still expose the complex to complications such as the principal agent problem and consequently moral hazard. The MDC is seen as a progression as nations move globally towards cyberwarfare, indeed the cyber war is increasingly being acknowledged as the \"fifth domain of warfare\"\nThe MDC is a necessity for governmental bodies in order to maintain high standards within their cyber army, for example the USA boasts over \"143 private companies involved in top secret cyber operations programs\", however James Gosler a government specialist in cyber security indicates that the USA have a severe shortage of government cybersecurity specialists\n\nTechnology has been a part of war since the dawn of warfare. Neolithic tools such as daggers were used as weaponry and clan rivalry long before recorded history. The bronze age and iron age saw technological improvements namely in the advancements of weaponry and subsequently the arrival of complex industries. It was not until the late 19th and early 20th Century that weaponry advanced in leaps and bounds to the armaments mankind witnesses today, however even then industry was relatively independent of the government and military. World War I and World War II were two important factors that led to the consequent military-industrial complex. Eric Hobsbawm in his book \"Age of Extremes\" outlines how categorically countries like Japan, USA and Russia had to develop their own military industry to support their militaristic efforts, creating a complex whereby the economies then straddled on this arms industry. Consequently, the procurement of missiles, ballistics, nuclear weapons, destroyers and submarines shows a marked difference between the ancient acquisitions of countries.\n\nAt the dawn on the 21st Century, the world has seen an emergence of digital equipment in the use of warfare, spanning from satellite surveillance systems all the way to dedicated agencies such as United States Cyber Command fully equipped with thousands of professionals manning computers on a 24/365 basis in order to prevent a cyber attack.\n\nThe use of computers has long been an essential tool in warfare, however as warfare moves from the traditional frontiers of land, sea, air and space to \"cyber space\" the use of computers is becoming not only essential but vital. Gregory Rattray, author of \"Strategic Warfare in Cyberspace\", explains how the history of warfare in the information age is far reaching and is well beyond military operation including financial crime and economic espionage. The history of this cyber warfare shows that it crosses global boundaries and encompasses political agendas, attacks on the USA such as Titan Rain show an attack from networks and computers situated in China for example. As the age of digital warfare progressed it has become evident that human reliance on technological equipment to monitor essential utilities such as our electricity grids has proven cataclysmic. As the threat became increasingly relevant, the emergence of big corporate players on the MDC scene including names such as Symantec, McAfee and traditional defense contractors such as Northrop Grumman and Lockheed Martin, as the cyber threat grows so does mankind's reliance on corporate players such as the aforementioned, creating an iron triangle among government, military and these global security corporations.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52698342", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52698342", "title": "Miodrag Popović", "text": "Miodrag Popović\n\nMiodrag Popović (; 1920-2005) was a Yugoslav and Serbian historian.\n"}
{"id": "12651397", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12651397", "title": "Mountbatten Maritime Prize", "text": "Mountbatten Maritime Prize\n\nThe Mountbatten Maritime Prize is awarded annually by the Maritime Foundation (formerly the British Maritime Charitable Foundation) to the author of a distinguished publication that has made a significant contribution to the maritime history of the United Kingdom. The prize is a piece of silver plate. The Trustees of the Maritime Foundation award the prize based on the recommendation of an Awards Committee. \n\nSource: Maritime Foundation\n\n"}
{"id": "16025474", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16025474", "title": "Muslim supporters of Israel", "text": "Muslim supporters of Israel\n\nMuslim supporters of Israel are Muslims who support self-determination for the Jewish people, and a homeland for them in the State of Israel.\n\nSome Muslim clerics, such as Sheikh Prof. Abdul Hadi Palazzi, Director of the Cultural Institute of the Italian Islamic Community, and Imam Dr Muhammad Al-Hussaini believe that the return of the Jews to the Holy Land, and the establishment of Israel, are in accordance with teachings of Islam. Some Muslim supporters of Israel consider themselves Muslim Zionists. Notable people with a Muslim background who publicly support Zionism include ex-Muslim Nemat Sadat, former radical Islamist Ed Husain, Dr. Tawfik Hamid, Tashbih Sayyed, a Pakistani-American scholar, journalist, and author, and the journalist Salah Choudhury. Additional Muslim people who voiced public support for Israel included figures such as Irshad Manji, Salim Mansur, Abdurrahman Wahid, Mithal al-Alusi, Kasim Hafeez, Abdullah Saad Al-Hadlaq, Zuhdi Jasser, Khaleel Mohammed, Nadiya Al-Noor, Noor Dahri and Farooq Haider Khan.\n\nIn the Muslim world, support of Israel is a minority orientation, and supporters of Israel have faced opposition and violence.\n\nAccording to British-based Imam Muhammad Al-Hussaini, traditional commentators from the 8th and 9th century onwards have uniformly interpreted the Qur'an to say explicitly that the Land of Israel has been given by God to the Jewish people as a perpetual covenant. Hussaini bases his argument upon Qur'an 5:21 in which Moses declares: \"O my people, enter the Holy Land which God has prescribed for you, and turn not back in your traces, to turn about losers.\" He cites the Qur'an commentator Muhammad ibn Jarir al-Tabari, who says that this statement is \"a narrative from God... concerning the saying of Moses... to his community from among the children of Israel and his order to them according to the order of God to him, ordering them to enter the holy land.\" He argued that this promise to the Jews is ever lasting, and further said: \"It was never the case during the early period of Islam... that there was any kind of sacerdotal attachment to Jerusalem as a territorial claim.\" This interpretation of the promise to the Jews as ever-lasting is not uniformly accepted by all Islamic commentators\n\nAccording to a translation by the Islamic Law scholar Khaleel Mohammed, Ibn Kathir (1301–1373) interpreted Qur'an 5:20–21 using the following terms: \"'That which God has written for you' i.e. That which God has promised to you by the words of your father Israel that it is the inheritance of those among you who believe.\"\n\nAfter World War I, the Sharif of Mecca, Hussein bin Ali and his son, the King Feisal of Hijaz and then of Iraq, proclaimed pro-Zionist views. According to Sheikh Prof. Abdul Hadi Palazzi, the Wahhabi position, in contrast, was extremely anti-Zionist.\n\nOn March 23, 1918, Al Qibla, the daily newspaper of Mecca, printed the following words in support of the Balfour Declaration of 1917: The resources of the country [Palestine] are still virgin soil and will be developed by the Jewish immigrants (...) we have seen the Jews from foreign countries streaming to Palestine from Russia, Germany, Austria, Spain, and America. The cause of causes could not escape those who had a gift of deeper insight. They knew that the country was for its original sons [abna'ihi-l-asliyin], for all their differences, a sacred and beloved homeland. The return of these exiles [jaliya] to their homeland will prove materially and spiritually an experimental school for their brethren who are with them in the fields, factories, trades and all things connected to the land.\n\nOn 3 January 1919, Hussein's son, king Faisal I of Iraq and Dr. Chaim Weizmann, President of the World Zionist Organization signed the Faisal–Weizmann Agreement for Arab-Jewish cooperation, in which Faisal conditionally accepted the Balfour Declaration based on the fulfilment of British wartime promises of development of a Jewish homeland in Palestine and on which subject he stated:\n\nAs'ad Shukeiri, a Muslim scholar ('alim) of the Acre area, and the father of PLO founder Ahmad Shukeiri, has rejected the values of the Palestinian Arab national movement and was opposed to the anti-Zionist movement. He met routinely with Zionist officials and had a part in every pro-Zionist Arab organization from the beginning of the British Mandate, publicly rejecting Mohammad Amin al-Husayni's use of Islam to attack Zionism.\nIn the 1920s, the Muslim National Associations was established by Muslim Arabs who were employed by the Palestine Zionist Executive. The president of the Muslim National Associations and the mayor of Haifa, Hassan Bey Shukri, has founded the organization with Sheikh Musa Hadeib from the village of Dawaymeh near Hebron and head of the farmers' party of Mt. Hebron.\n\nIn July 1921, Shukri sent a telegram to the British government, declaring support for the Balfour Declaration and Zionist immigration to British Mandate Palestine:\nIn 1929, Hadeib was murdered in Jerusalem, supposedly for his collaboration with the Zionists.\n\nIn the late 1930s, Amir Abdullah, ruler of Transjordan, and the pro-Hashemite leader of Syria, Abd al-Rahman Shahabandar, offered the Zionists to create a Jewish autonomy in Palestine under the Transjordanian throne, although they did not propose an independent Jewish state.\n\nA number of Muslim groups that have histories of conflict with Arabs, including Kurds and Berbers, have also voiced support for Israel and Zionism. Ramin H. Artin, of the Kurdish-American Education Society, argues that the creation of Israel has been \"a thorn in the eye of fascists who would rather eliminate the Jewish state\". He concluded that an Israeli-Kurdish alliance is \"natural\", and that sincere mutual respect and recognition of each other's rights can lead to peace and prosperity.\n\nPalazzi noted that although in present days support for Israel among Muslims is a minority orientation, there are some exceptions, such as former President of Indonesia and leader of Nahdlatul Ulama, Shaykh Abdurrahman Wahid, and the Grand Mufti of the Russian Federation, Shaykh Talgat Tajuddin, the Mufti of European Russia, Shaykh Salman Farid, who wrote a fatwa against the intifadah. According to Palazzi, more examples for Pro-Israeli Muslim clerics are the Muftis of Chechnya, Uzbekistan and Kazakhstan.\n\nTurkey also supports Israel, being one of the first Muslim countries to recognize Israel. It is also noted that trade between Turkey and Israel has broken records in 2014.\n\nDuring the Israeli War of Independence of 1948, many Bedouin switched sides to join the Zionist forces in opposing the invasion by the regular Arab armies.\n\nNegev Bedouins, a Muslim minority which includes about 12% of Israeli Arabs, tend to identify more as Israelis than other Arab citizens of Israel. Many Negev Bedouins serve in the Israel Defense Forces. Each year, between 5%–10% of the Bedouin of draft age volunteer for the IDF (unlike Druze and Jewish Israelis, they are not required by law to do so).\n\nDuring the Palestinian Arab national movement's formation, Bedouins often perceived their tribe as their principal focus of identity, and they generally did not view themselves as a component of the emerging Palestinian identity.\n\nBedouins had long standing ties with nearby Jewish communities. Bedouins of Tuba-Zangariyye helped defend these communities in the 1936–1939 Arab revolt in Palestine. Formal co-operation between Jews and Bedouin began in 1946, when tribal leader Sheik Hussein Mohammed Ali Abu Yussef of the al-Heib tribe sent more than 60 of his men to fight alongside Zionist forces, forming the Pal-Heib unit of the Haganah. During the 1948 Arab-Israeli War, the Pal-Heib unit defended Jewish communities in the Upper Galilee against Syria. Sheik Abu Yussef was quoted in 1948 as saying, \"Is it not written in the Koran that the ties of neighbors are as dear as those of relations? Our friendship with the Jews goes back many years. We felt we could trust them and they learned from us too\".\n\nMaj Fehd Fallah, a Bedouin from the village of Saad in the Golan Heights said in an interview: \"Yes, I have fought against Muslims in Gaza,\" he says. \"And I would fight again if I had to,\" he added. \"Israeli Muslims who don't serve in the IDF should be ashamed for not serving their country.\"\n\nIsmail Khaldi is the first Bedouin deputy consul of Israel and the highest ranking Muslim in the Israeli foreign service. Khaldi is a strong advocate of Israel. While acknowledging that the state of Israeli Bedouin minority is not ideal, he said\n\nThe Circassians in Israel are non-Arab, predominantly Sunni Muslims. The Circassians have had good relations with the Jewish community in Israel since the beginning of the Jewish settlement in the Land of Israel. The Circassian community in Israel helped the illegal immigration (Ha'apala) of Jews into Palestine during the British Mandate and fought on the Israeli side of the War of Independence. In 1948, when Israel was created, Circassians of Palestine did not migrate to neighboring countries, but rather made the choice to stay within the borders of the new state and embrace full Israeli citizenship. Like the Druze population, since 1958 male Circassians perform Israeli mandatory military service upon reaching the age of majority, while females do not. Many Circassians in Israel are employed in the security forces, including in the Border Guard, the Israel Defense Forces, the police and the Israel Prison Service. The percentage of army recruits among the Circassian community in Israel is particularly high. This loyalty to Israel is often considered as an act of betrayal by the Arab Muslims, who see Circassians as traitors to the Ummah.\n\nThe Druze are a religious community who consider themselves an Islamic Unist, reformatory sect. The Druze consider themselves to be Muslim, although they are considered non-Muslim by the general Islamic community. The Druze mostly do not identify with the cause of Arab nationalism. The bond between Jews and Druze is commonly known by the term \"a covenant of blood\". Druze citizens are prominent in the Israel Defense Forces and in politics, and a considerable number of Israeli Druze soldiers have fallen in Israel's wars since the 1948 Arab-Israeli War. Reda Mansour, a Druze poet, historian and diplomat, explained: \"We are the only non-Jewish minority that is drafted into the military, and we have an even higher percentage in the combat units and as officers than the Jewish members themselves. So we are considered a very nationalistic, patriotic community.\" In 2008 more than 94% of Druze youngsters classified themselves as \"Druze-Israelis\" in the religious and national context. Five Druze lawmakers currently have been elected to serve in the 18th Knesset, a disproportionately large number considering their population.\n\nRafik Halabi, an Israeli Druze television correspondent and former Israeli military officer, characterizes himself as an Israeli patriot. Opening his 1982 book \"The West Bank Story: An Israel Arab's View of Both Sides of a Tangled Conflict\", he wrote, \"I am an Israeli patriot, although I am not a Jew\".\n\nSalman Abu-Salah, from the village Majdal Shams, established the \"Zionist Druze Club\" in the Golan in the 1970s and advocated petitioning for Israeli citizenship, even prior to the Israeli annexation of the Golan Heights in 1980. Yusuf Nasr al-Din, who believes that the Arab-Israeli Conflict is a historical struggle between Zionism and Arabism, established the Druze Zionist Movement, recommending that the Druze show solidarity with Israel and adopt the national Zionist ideology of the Jewish people.\n\nIn 1973, Amal Nasereldeen founded the \"Zionist Druze Circle\", a group whose aim was to encourage the Druze to support the state of Israel fully and unreservedly. A-Din, a Likud member of the Knesset, has lost his son in the War of Attrition between Israel and Egypt in 1969. In 2007, Nabiah A-Din, the chairman of the forum of the Druze and Circassian authority heads, and head of the Kasra Adia municipality, criticized the \"multi-cultural\" Israeli constitution proposed by the Israeli Arab organization Adalah, saying that he finds it unacceptable. \"The state of Israel is Jewish state as well as a democratic state that espouses equality and elections. We invalidate and reject everything that the Adalah organization is requesting,\" he said. According to A-din, the fate of Druze and Circassians in Israel is intertwined with that of the state. \"This is a blood pact, and a pact of the living. We are unwilling to support a substantial alteration to the nature of this state, to which we tied our destinies prior to its establishment,\" he said. there were 7,000 registered members in the Druze Zionist movement. In 2009, the movement held a Druze Zionist youth conference with 1,700 participants.\n\nMajor Ala Wahib serves as the highest ranking Muslim officer in the Israel Defense Forces, and originates from the Galillee village of Reineh. He serves as the operations officer at an IDF ground forces training base, and describes himself as a \"Zionist Israeli Arab\". Wahib grew up in a society where Holocaust denial was common, but visited Poland while serving in the IDF and was shocked, saying that \"there was something very powerful in the fact that I was standing on Polish soil, holding an Israeli flag and donning the uniform of the Israeli army, but this time from a position of power.\" According to Wahib, there are quite a lot of Israeli Arabs who want to enlist, but do not do so since they don't know how this will be accepted by their environment. In regards to being a Muslim, Wahib explained that he believes in the Muslim faith, and will never abandon it, but believes that \"Zionism... is something that fully represents my sense of belonging to the State of Israel and to Israeli society, and the immense commitment I have to protecting and guarding the country of which I am part.\"\n\nAnett Haskia is another outspoken Muslim supporter of Israel who was born and raised in Akko. A mother of three children who have served in the IDF, she says that Arabs in Israel live better than those living in any Arab state, and states, \"I was born in Israel, and it is my homeland. I thank God every day that I was born in the Jewish state because of everything that happens in the Arab states in general and Syria, in particular. Not only do I support Israel, I am also willing to sacrifice my family for the existence of this state. You have to understand, Israel is my homeland. Just because I am an Arab Muslim does not mean I will support Arab countries against Israel or identify with a murderous organization like Hamas that wants to destroy my homeland.\" In 2014, Haskia has joined The Jewish Home, a right-wing political party, aiming to be elected for the Israeli Knesset, and to encourage more Arabs to identify with the state of Israel.\n\nA Truman Institute survey from 2005 found that 63% of the Arab citizens accept the principle that Israel is the state of the Jewish people. In a 2012 survey conducted by the University of Haifa Jewish-Arab Center, \"Index of Jewish-Arab Relations in Israel 2012\", 75% of Israeli Arabs stated that Israel has a right to exist as an independent state, and 48% that they could support its existence as a democratic, Jewish state.\n\nNotable Muslim supporters of Israel include Dr. Tawfik Hamid A former self-described member of a terror organization and current Islamic thinker and reformer, Sheikh Prof. Abdul Hadi Palazzi, Director of the Cultural Institute of the Italian Islamic Community and self described Muslim Zionist, and Tashbih Sayyed – a Muslim Pakistani-American scholar, journalist, author, and self-described Muslim Zionist, Prof. Khaleel Mohammed, Islamic Law scholar of the San Diego State University and Salah Uddin Shoaib Choudhury, a Bangladeshi journalist and publisher, and a self-proclaimed Muslim Zionist.\n\nMohammad Tawhidi, an Iranian-born Australian Imam who was made an imam by Ayatollah Sayid Sadiq Shirazi in Qum, Iran in 2010. He holds several licenses from Islamic seminaries and is known for holding contrasting views from other Islamic experts, such as stating his support for Israel and declaring that <nowiki>\"Palestine is Jewish land.\"</nowiki>\n\nNemat Sadat an Afghan-born, US citizen is the first ex-Muslim gay, atheist and Zionist from Afghanistan. Sadat promotes Israel's right to exist in Afghanistan and calls for establishment of full bilateral Afghan-Israel relations. In an interview with \"The Voice of Israel,\" Sadat dubbed himself the \"Theodr Herzl of Afghanistan\" and hopes Afghans will unite their war-torn nation inside the country and in exile to become eternal and united like Israel.\n\nSalah Uddin Shoaib Choudhury, a Bangladeshi journalist and publisher, and a self-proclaimed Muslim Zionist. His newspaper, \"Weekly Blitz\", criticizes the jihad culture and advocates inter-faith understanding between Muslims, Christians and Jews. Choudhury was arrested by Bangladeshi police on November 29, 2003 at Dhaka airport since he was scheduled to fly to Israel, a country Bangladeshi citizens are barred from travelling to. After release from 17-months imprisonment, Choudhury wrote in an Israeli newspaper \"I also stand before you perhaps as a living contradiction: a Zionist, a defender of Israel, and a devout, practicing Muslim, living in a Muslim country.\" He said \"I believe in the justice of the Zionist dream. I also acknowledge this historical reality: that the world has endeavored to crush that dream and, yes, even to destroy the viability of the Jewish people. At the same time, I live in an environment where people believe just as passionately in an opposing view—one that sees Israel as illegitimate; and the Jewish people as evil incarnate.\"\n\nIrshad Manji, a Muslim Canadian author and an advocate of progressive interpretation of Islam, says that the Arabs' failure to accept the Jews' historical bond with Palestine is a mistake. Manji accepts that the Jews' historical roots stretch back to the land of Israel, and recognizes their right to a Jewish state. She further argues that the allegation of apartheid in Israel is deeply misleading, noting that there are in Israel several Arab political parties; that Arab-Muslim legislators have veto powers; and that Arab parties have overturned disqualifications. She also observes that Israel has a free Arab press; that road signs bear Arabic translations; and that Arabs live and study alongside Jews. She accuses Arab countries for the Palestinian refugees' plight, saying that they \"interfered with every attempt to solve the problem\" and that they would rather give \"generous support to suicide bombers and their families\" rather than help the needy refugees. According to Geneive Abdo, \"Muslim Zionist\" is a label which Manji \"would no doubt accept\".\n\nIn 2008, Salim Mansur, a Muslim Canadian Political Scientist, columnist and author, congratulated Israel for its 60th anniversary, and declared that the Jewish state \"deserves admiration\". He wrote, \"Israel is a tiny sliver of land in a vast tempest-ridden sea of the Arab-Muslim world, and yet it is here the ancient world's most enduring story is made fresh again by Jews to live God's covenant with Abraham as told in their sacred literature.\" In 2010, he wrote: \"The story of modern Israel, as many have noted, is a miracle unlike any [...] It is a robust and inclusive democracy, and is at the leading edge of science and technology [...] What hypocrites demand of Israelis and the scrutiny Israel is subjected to by them, they would not dare make of any other nation.\"\n\nDr. Tawfik Hamid, chair for the Study of Islamic Radicalism at the Potomac Institute for Policy Studies, an Egyptian scholar and self-described former member of the militant al-Gama'a al-Islamiyya, said that most Muslims correlate the word \"Israel\" in Arabic to the word \"'Azra'il\" that sounds like \"Israel\" but means \"Angel of death\". This created a link in the minds of most children of Muslims the need to hate the word Israel. In an article titled \"Why I loved Israel based on the Qur'an\" he claims that according to the Qur'an, God gave the Israelites the land of Israel as their promised land (Quran 17:104): And We said thereafter to the Children of Israel, \"Dwell securely in the land of promise\". He explains the Quran went even further to consider the Promised Land as the permanent inheritance for the Israelites (26:59): \"Thus it was, but we made the Children of Israel inheritors of such things (the Promised Land)\" He continued by saying \"No Muslim has the right to interfere with the gathering of the Jews in Israel, as this is the will of God himself\".\n\nThe former Egyptian Muslim nuclear scientist Noha Hashad was arrested multiple times for conducting pro-Jewish Quran research, suffering beatings and torture at the hands of the authorities. During the chaos following the fall of the Mubarak regime in 2011, she managed to escape and fled to Israel. She claims that the Qur'an mentions Jewish rights to the land of Israel in a clear manner. In 2014, she renounced Islam.\n\nRama Yade, a Franco-Senegalese politician who served in the government of France from 2007 to 2010 and the current vice president of the centrist Radical Party, has been described as \"notoriously pro-Israeli\".\n\nTarek Fatah and Tufail Ahmad are among the few pro Israeli Muslim intellectuals in India. Fatah was born in Karachi, Pakistan.\n\nAbdurrahman Wahid, Indonesia's president from 1999 until 2001, was criticised for his pro-Israel views. Wahid moved to establish diplomatic and commercial relations with Israel, and visited Israel six times. In a 2002 interview to ABC, Wahid said that the Islamic world should start recognising and acknowledging Israel's right to exist and prosper. He added, \"I think Muslims are rational and rationality dictates that.\" In a 2004 interview to an Israeli newspaper, he was asked about his friendship with Israel, which was described as \"unusual for an Islamic leader\". Wahid replied, \"I think there is a wrong perception that Islam is in disagreement with Israel. This is caused by Arab propaganda [...] Israel has a reputation as a nation with a high regard for God and religion — there is then no reason we have to be against Israel.\" According to Wahid, Israel \"is a democracy in a sea of misunderstanding\".\n\nIn Italy, Sheikh Prof. Abdul Hadi Palazzi, director of the Cultural Institute of the Italian Islamic Community, represents a unique \"Muslim Zionist\", pro-Israel and pro-American position which according to Morten T. Højsgaard, Margit Warburg, although the organization is small in proportions, is a \"thorn in the side of both moderate and radical Islamic fundamentalists in Italy\".\n\nIn 1996, Palazzi and the Israeli scholar Asher Eder co-founded the Islam-Israel Fellowship to promote cooperation between Israel and Muslim nations.\n\nPalazzi argues against calls for jihad against Israel and says there is no religious demand for Israel to give up control over Muslim holy places.\n\nMithal al-Alusi, a secular Muslim Iraqi lawmaker, who is openly pro-Israel, paid a heavy price for visiting Israel in September 2004, criticizing Hamas and Hezbollah as terrorist organizations, and advocating peace with the Jewish state. Upon his return to Iraq, the Sunni politician was immediately removed from Ahmed Chalabi's Iraqi National Congress Party (INC). In 2005, apparently as payback, a gunman opened fire on Alusi's car just after it left his house, killing two of his sons, Ayman, 21, and Jamal, 30, while he escaped unharmed. According to Alusi, there is no Iraqi-Israeli problem, and the interests of the two countries are parallel; thus, he advocates strategic relations between Iraq and Israel against terrorism. Alusi returned to Israel for a second visit in September 2008. Upon his return to Iraq, he was stripped of parliamentary immunity so that he could face charges of traveling illicitly to Israel. Later that year, Iraq's Federal Supreme Court ruled in his favor, maintaining it was no longer a crime for Iraqis to travel to Israel.\n\nThe Jordanian Quranic scholar Sheikh Ahmad al-Adwan, also called the 'Zionist Sheikh', claims that according to the Quran, the land of Israel is promised to the Jews. He wrote, Indeed, I recognize their sovereignty over their land. I believe in the Holy Koran, and this fact is stated many times in the book. For instance 'O my people! Enter the holy land which Allah hath assigned unto you,’ [Koran 5:21], ‘We made the Children of Israel inheritors of such things.' [Koran 26:59] and additional verses in the Holy Book.\n\nAbdalla Mwidau, mayor of Mombasa during the 1970s, and a Muslim supporter of Israel, was elected to Kenyan parliament as the representative of Mombasa-South. In 1979, Mwidau conducted an information campaign among Muslims in the USA, in which he praised Israel's assistance to developing African countries and specifically its assistance to Muslim education in Kenya. His political rivals, led by Sharif Kassir, denounced these activities, calling Mwidau a \"Zionist agent\". Mwidau remained in parliament until his death in 1986.\n\nKuwaiti writer Abdullah Saad Al-Hadlaq urged his country to normalize relations with Israel. Responding to a question whether he believed that Muslims have a right to rule Jerusalem, Hadlaq said, \"On the contrary, verse number 21 of Surat Al-Maeda of the Holy Quran emphasizes the right of 'Bani Israel'\". He said that Israel's model of democracy is unique and surpassed many of what he described as the \"tyrannical, totalitarian\" Arab regimes. In his 2008 article, \"The Right of Self-defense,\" Al-Hadlaq supported \"Israel's right to defend itself\" and told the international community \"not to criticize Israel if it continues its fight against Persian terror committed by the terrorist Hamas (...) and not to criticize Israel for using force to defend its citizens and its territory\". In 2011, Hadlaq warned against a unilateral recognition of a Palestinian state, which he says will shatter the idea of real peace in the region. According to Al-Hadlaq, Israel has in the past made strategic concessions for peace, in Sinai, the Gaza Strip and South Lebanon, proving her desire for peaceful negotiations, but the response she earned was a hail of rockets from the \"terrorists of Hizballah and Hamas\".\n\nTashbih Sayyed, a Sunni Pakistani-American scholar, journalist, and author, was a supporter of Israel and critic of the Islamist movement. He said that Israel is vital for the stability of the region. Sayyed praised the treatment of Arabs in Israel, and applauded the \"strength of the Jewish spirit that refuses to give in to evil forces despite thousand of years of anti-Semitism\". He concluded by saying \"I am convinced that it is true that God created this earth but it is also a fact that only an Israel can keep this earth from dying\". Tashbih condemned the press that portrays the Israelis as villains, and \"chooses to ignore all rules of ethical journalism when it comes to Israel.\"\n\nCrown Prince Mohammad bin Salman said in an interview with The Atlantic that \"I believe that each people, anywhere, has a right to live in their peaceful nation. I believe the Palestinians and the Israelis have the right to have their own land.\"Retired Saudi General Anwar Eshki also made a visit to Israel in 2016 where he met with members of the Knesset.\n\nIn 2011, a pro-Israel advocacy group, British Muslims for Israel, was founded under the umbrella of the Institute for Middle Eastern Democracy. The group spokesperson, Hasan Afzal, a political economics student at the University of Birmingham, explained in an interview with Israeli Channel 10 that Muslims in Israel are freer than they are under oppressive regimes in Arab countries. Afzal said that calls for Israel's destruction are \"nonsense\" and condemned Hamas who he says is \"determined to kill indiscriminately.\"\n\nKasim Hafeez, a British-born Muslim of Pakistani origin, and self-proclaimed Muslim Zionist, commented it's \"far from easy being a Zionist Muslim in England\". Hafeez said he's been marginalized by his community and family. Hafeez, who has found an appreciation for Sufi Islam, stated in a lecture that he felt more at home in Israel than anywhere else, and added \"I'm proud to call myself a Zionist\". Hafeez visited university campuses around the UK presenting his talk, \"The Day I Stopped Hating Israel – Confessions of an ex-Radical.\" In an interview with the \"Jewish Telegraph\", Hafeez said: \"It's not about being pro-Israel or pro-truth, I just want the facts to be heard. Israel is a democratic state. Muslims in Israel have more rights than possibly most Muslims in the Arab world and then there is the reality of the actual conflict. In the UK, most of us can't impact what will happen in Israel, we can't stop rockets falling from Gaza or forge a peace process, but we can tackle the delegitimisation and demonisation of Israel.\"\n\nMohammed Mostafa Kamal is a freelance journalist from Bangladesh based in the United Kingdom. He has said, \"No Muslim country boycotted East Timor or banned its citizens from traveling there after it became independent from mainly Muslim Indonesia. Christian-majority South Sudan became independent from mainly Muslim United Sudan in 2011. As with East Timor, we did not see any Muslim boycotts. However, when Israel became independent in 1948, Muslim countries acted with unrelenting hostility. Why?\" Kamal has said that when comparing Israel's actions since 1948 with those of East Timor or South Sudan, \"the only conclusion to be drawn is that the Muslim world's attitude toward Israel is totally illogical, unfair and unjust. Israel was established in the exact same manner as were Australia and America. History will not rewind.\" Kamal further added that \"anti-Israel activities have not brought the Muslim world anything but tension, conflict and economic ruin, keeping them relegated to third-world status.\" Kamal also said that it was a lie to call Israel colonialist or expanionist, using proof that Israel has ceded territory since its formation for peace agreements with Egypt and Jordan and had not committed aggression against these countries since those treaties. Kamal believes that Muslim countries must recognize the state of Israel, and the Muslim world must boycott Hamas, Hezbollah, and Iran if they rejected peace.\n\nMuhammad Zahran, whose family was born in East Jerusalem, moved to Jordan, and finally to the United Kingdom, is a Palestinian blogger, lecturer, publicist, and religious Muslim who supports Israel. He has accused Jordan of practicing Apartheid, and is a supporter of Israeli settlements in the West Bank, saying that those who oppose it \"are just encouraging the terrorist groups indirectly. They're giving legitimacy to Hamas.\" When explaining why he voices his views, Zahran said, \"I don't do it because I choose to, but rather because most of the people think this way and only I have the privilege of speaking out because I'm a British citizen. Most of my people think as I do, but they're afraid to say so.\" He has noted that 70% of Palestinians in East Jerusalem want Israel to retain control over them, and has said that \"we suffer because of our Arab brothers, but we are also dependent on them. It's a bizarre situation because the Arab countries don't really care what happens to the Palestinian people. The only assistance that we have ever received from any country was from the 'Zionist enemy.' Zahran has also said that Iran is a threat that must be stopped, and is threatening both Israel and the Palestinians.\n\nEd Husain a former radical Islamist and author of \"The Islamist\", a book about Islamic fundamentalism and an account of his five years as a radical Islamist activist. Husain also cofounded, with Maajid Nawaz, the counter-extremism organisation the Quilliam Foundation. He is currently senior fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations in New York City. Husain supports a two-state solution to end the Israel-Palestinian conflict. Husain has condemned suicide bombing of Israeli civilians as well as the \"killing of Palestinian civilians by the Hamas-led Gazan government\". He is opposed to the international boycott of Israel by activists, stating in \"The New York Times\" that:\n\nThe American-Islamic Forum for Democracy (AIFD) was formed in March 2003. The group advocates a liberal Islam, compatible with democracy and American values. The AIFD publicly supports Israel, stating \"it is necessary to make a foundational position statement regarding the state of Israel. We stand in support of the existing unqualified recognition of the state of Israel behind internationally recognized borders\".\n\nThe group's founder, M. Zuhdi Jasser, a former Lieutenant Commander in the United States Navy, said that Muslims need to recognize Israel as a state, to stand against radical Islamist groups by name, not by theory, tactic, or condemning terrorism, but by name—Hamas, Al Qaeda and other groups. Jasser calls political Islamism \"the root cause of Islamist terrorism\" and a matter on which it is \"time to take sides.\" An outspoken supporter of Israel, Jasser warned against what he sees as the increasing threats of Radical Islam to the West: \"Israel has always been a canary in the coal mine, dealing with the threat of radical Islam. Now each country is going to have to deal with it\".\n\nDuring the 2006 Lebanon War, Jasser defended Israel's actions, and wrote \"I have no reason to believe that Israel is not doing anything but just protecting itself from forces that are using homes north of it to bomb northern Israel\". Afdhere Jama, an American-Muslim writer and editor of the Huriyah magazine, added, \"My main difference with the majority of Muslims is the belief that a Jewish homeland is an important progress for all of us, especially one in their ancestral land of Israel\". He continued, \"Muslims in the United States must decide whether they see groups like Hamas and Hizbullah as legitimate resistance or the cause of Muslim troubles in the region\".\n\nKhaleel Mohammed, an associate professor of Religion at San Diego State University (SDSU), attracted attention for a 2004 interview in which he stated that based on the Qur'an, Israel belongs to the Jews. Mohammed said that the Qur'an never mentions Jerusalem as a holy city, and added, \"It's in the Muslim consciousness that the land first belonged to the Jews. It doesn't matter if the Jews were exiled 500 years or 2000 years, the Holy Land, as mentioned in Quran belongs to Moses and his people, the Jews.\"\n\nStephen Suleyman Schwartz, an American Muslim author, and adherent of the Hanafi school of Islam, contends that Israel is the historic, sacred land of the Jews, given to the Jews by god \"as their eternal home\".\n\nDr. Qanta A. Ahmed, a British-born Pakistani Muslim who today lives in New York, is a staunch defender of Israel, who has been accused by her critics of being a \"Zionist in a Muslim guise\". She is firmly opposed to the boycott against Israel, saying that the movement attempts to vilify Israel in almost every argument. While opposing the continued occupation of the Palestinian Territories, Ahmed admits that she doesn't know how Israel can currently relinquish control over a region hosting \"a virulent Jihadist ideology\" and leaders calling for her own destruction.\n\nAmna Farooqi, a Muslim-American of Pakistani descent, serves as the president of J Street U, a pro-Israel campus organization. \"I fell in love with Zionism, because Zionism became about taking ownership over the story of one’s people\", she says. According to Gideon Aronoff, who leads the Zionist organization Ameinu, the election of Farooqi demonstrates that Muslim progressives can be strong Zionists, and that one does not have to be Jewish or an evangelical Christian in order to appreciate Israel or care about its future.\n\nImam Abdul Hadi Palazzi, leader of Italian Muslim Assembly and a co-founder and a co-chairman of the Islam-Israel Fellowship, quotes the Qur'an to support Judaism's special connection to the Temple Mount. According to Palazzi, \"The most authoritative Islamic sources affirm the Temples.\" He adds that Jerusalem is sacred to Muslims because of its prior holiness to Jews and its standing as home to the biblical prophets and kings David and Solomon, all of whom he says are sacred figures also in Islam. He claims that the Qur'an \"expressly recognizes that Jerusalem plays the same role for Jews that Mecca has for Muslims\".\n\nWhen asked what the Qur'an says about the State of Israel, Palazzi replied:\nThe Qur'an cannot deal with the State of Israel as we know it today, since that State came into existing in 1948 only, i.e. many centuries after the Qur'an itself was revealed. However, the Qur'an specifies that the Land of Israel is the homeland of the Jewish people, that God Himself gave that Land to them as heritage and ordered them to live therein. It also announces that – before the end of the time – the Jewish people will come from many different countries to retake possession of that heritage of theirs. Whoever denies this actually denies the Qur'an itself. If he is not a scholar, and in good faith believes what other people say about this issue, he is an ignorant Muslim. If, on the contrary, he is informed about what the Qur'an and openly opposes it, he ceases to be a Muslim.\n\nProf. Khaleel Mohammed, Islamic Law scholar of the San Diego State University, noted that Sura 5 verse 21 of the Qur'an, and the medieval exegetes of the Qur'an, say that Israel belongs to the Jews. He translates it thus:\n\nIn the Muslim world, support of Israel is mostly met with opposition. In 2004, Sarah Nasser, a Muslim college student in Canada known for her pro-Israel views, received death threats after expressing support for the Jewish state's right to exist. \"Being a supporter of the existence of Israel does not conflict with Islam, it complements Islam,\" she said. \"The Koran does not have any verses that do not allow for the Jews to return to the Land of Israel (...) \"I love Jews as I love true Muslims,\" she said. \"Therefore, I believe Jews should have a right to live legitimately in their homeland.\" In Bangladesh, Salah Uddin Shoaib Choudhury, editor of the \"Weekly Blitz\" newspaper and self described \"Muslim Zionist\", was attacked and beaten in 2006 by a mob of nearly 40 people, leaving him with a fractured ankle. During the assault, the attackers shouted at Choudhury, labeling him an \"agent of the Jews.\"\n\nIn 2011, Alaa Alsaegh, a Muslim from Iraq who posted online a poem expressing support for Jewish people in Israel, was reportedly attacked in St. Louis, with a Star of David being carved into his back.\n\nMohammad Zoabi, a self-described Muslim Zionist from Nazareth who has voiced strong support for Israel, decided to take a break from social media and keep a low profile after he reportedly received death threats from fellow Arab Israelis. Later he was forced to flee Israel after receiving serious death threats.\n\n"}
{"id": "20936715", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20936715", "title": "Niharranjan Ray", "text": "Niharranjan Ray\n\nNiharranjan Ray (1903–1981) was an Indian historian, well known for his works on the history of Art and Buddhism.\n\nHe was born on 14 January 1903 at Kayetgram village of Mymensingh District in Bengal province of British India (in the present-day Bangladesh). He completed his initial studies from the Mrityunjaya School and Ananda Mohan College in Mymensingh. In 1924, he passed his B.A. examination in History from Murari Chand College, Sylhet. In 1926, he stood first in the M.A. examination in Ancient Indian History and Culture from the University of Calcutta. He received the \"Mrinalini Gold Medal\" in the same year for his \"Political History of Northern India, AD 600-900\". In 1928, he received the Premchand Roychand Studentship. In 1935, he passed his diploma in Librarianship from the London University College. He married Manika in 1904-1999, he had two sons and one daughter.. He died 30 August 1981 at the age of 78 in Kolkata, West Bengal India.\n\nHe was appointed the Chief Librarian in the Central Library of Calcutta University in 1936. In 1946, he was appointed Bageswari Professor of Fine Arts in Calcutta University and retired from the post in 1965. He was the General Secretary of the Asiatic Society, Calcutta from 1949 to 1950. In 1965, he became the First Director of the Indian Institute of Advanced Study, Shimla and remained in office till 1970. He was a member of the Third Pay Commission from 1970 to 1973.\n\nHe was a nationalist and participated in the Quit India movement and was imprisoned from 1943 to 1944.\n\nHis magnum opus in Bengali, \"Bangalir Itihas: Adiparba\" (History of the Bengali People: Early Period) was initially published in 1949. Later, an enlarged and revised edition was published by the \"Saksharata Prakashan\" in two volumes in 1980. His other significant works include:\n\n"}
{"id": "27540718", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27540718", "title": "Park51", "text": "Park51\n\nPark51 (originally named Cordoba House) is a development that was originally envisioned as a 13-story Islamic community center and mosque in Lower Manhattan. The developers hoped to promote an interfaith dialogue within the greater community. Due to its proposed location two blocks from the World Trade Center site, it was widely and controversially referred to as the \"Ground Zero mosque\".\n\nThe project would replace an existing 1850s building of Italianate style that was damaged in the September 11 attacks. The original design was by Michel Abboud, principal of SOMA Architects, who wrestled for months with the challenge of making the building fit naturally into its lower Manhattan surroundings: on the one hand, it should have a contemporary design, and, at the same time, it should look Islamic. His design included a 500-seat auditorium, theater, performing arts center, fitness center, swimming pool, basketball court, childcare area, bookstore, culinary school, art studio, food court, and memorial to the victims of the September 11 attacks. It also included a prayer space for the Muslim community, which would accommodate 1,000–2,000 people.\n\nIn late September 2011, a temporary Islamic center opened in renovated space at the Park51 location. In summer 2014, it was announced that there would instead be a 3-story museum with a prayer space, as well as condos, at 49-51 Park Place. The plans were changed again in September 2015, when the owner announced a , 70-story luxury condominium building at the site. In May 2016, financing was secured for a 43-story condominium building with room for an Islamic cultural museum.\n\nPlans to build then-named Cordoba House were reported in \"The New York Times\" in December 2009, at a location that was already in use for Muslim worship. Early response to the project was not pronounced, and one libertarian commentator provided positive coverage.\nThe plans were reviewed by the local community board in May 2010, at which time they attracted some national media attention. Protests were sparked by a campaign launched by conservative bloggers Pamela Geller and Robert Spencer, founders of the group Stop Islamization of America, who dubbed the project the \"Ground Zero mosque\", and a national controversy ensued. Cordoba House enlisted the public relations services of The TASC Group to help mitigate the media attention throughout the controversy.\n\nSome opponents have said that the building itself would serve as a \"victory memorial\" to Islam. Supporters have said that arguments against the building are based on the notion that Islam, rather than Islamic radicals, is responsible for the terrorist attack. The \"New York Times\" reported that Muslim religious facilities previously existed at the World Trade Center itself before the attacks. Opponents have also argued that the project should not be built because polls have shown that most Americans, including most residents of New York State and New York City (though not most residents of Manhattan), oppose it. Most Americans do, however, believe the Park51 developers have a legal right to proceed with the project.\n\nThe project's organizers state that it is intended to be \"a platform for multi-faith dialogue. It will strive to promote inter-community peace, tolerance and understanding locally in New York City, nationally in America, and globally,\" and have stated that it is modeled on the noted Manhattan Jewish Community Center, the 92nd Street Y. The project's sponsors explained that the original name of the center was meant to invoke 8th–11th century Córdoba, in Spain, which they call a model of peaceful coexistence between Muslims, Christians, and Jews. The proposal triggered an intense nationwide controversy, with opponents of the project objecting to its proximity to the site of the September 11 attacks, its scale, sources of funding, or expressing concern that the project's name was intended as a reference to the Islamic conquest of the Christian city of Córdoba. Supporters have appealed to the First Amendment as well as the opportunity for Muslims to demonstrate peaceful Islamic values and for Americans to reassert their commitment to tolerance and diversity.\n\nThe project was originally called Cordoba House, then renamed Park51, in reference to the street address on Park Place. Later, the Imam leading the project introduced some ambiguity by again referring to the project as \"Cordoba House\". The Park51 website then clarified that Park51 is the community center, while Cordoba House is the \"interfaith and religious component of the center\".\n\nCordoba Initiative said the name \"Cordoba House\" was meant to invoke 8th–11th century Córdoba, Spain, which they called a model of peaceful coexistence among Muslims, Christians, and Jews. According to \"The Economist\", the name was chosen because Muslims, Jews, and Christians created a center of learning in Córdoba together. The name was criticized; for example, Newt Gingrich said that it was \"a deliberately insulting term\" that symbolizes the Muslim conquerors' victory over Christian Spaniards, and noted that the Muslims had converted a Cordoba church into the third largest mosque in the world. Similarly, Raymond Ibrahim, a former associate director of the Middle East Forum, said the project and name were not \"a gesture of peace and interfaith dialogue\" but were \"allusive of Islamic conquest and consolidation\" and that Americans should realize that mosques are not \"Muslim counterparts to Christian churches\" but rather, \"are symbols of domination and centers of radicalization\". The opposition to Park51 believes that Islam builds mosques on \"conquered territory\" as symbols of \"territory\" and \"conquest\".\n\nPark51 is often referred to as the \"Ground Zero mosque\". Since it is neither located directly on the former World Trade Center site, Ground Zero, nor primarily a mosque, some news media have advised against the use of this term. The Associated Press suggested several alternate terms including \"mosque 2 blocks from WTC site\", \"Muslim (or Islamic) center near WTC site\", \"mosque near ground zero\", and \"mosque near WTC site\". Cordoba Initiative says the building is not strictly a mosque. Anushay Hossain in \"The Huffington Post\" criticises the use of the name Ground Zero mosque, and says it is \"Not a mosque but an Islamic Community Center\". Jean Marbella in \"The Baltimore Sun\" says the building is closer to a YMCA center than a house of worship.\n\n45–47 Park Place was constructed between 1857 and 1858, in the Palazzo style architecture.\n\nThe stone-faced building, designed by Daniel D. Badger, was originally constructed for a shipping firm of a prominent New York shipping magnate. Its Italian palazzo style was a throwback to a prior time of European grandeur, and was intended to evoke images of economic might. The building is an example of the \"store and loft\" structures that were prevalent in the dry goods warehouse districts of Lower Manhattan.\n\nThe building was one of only a few stand-alone structures in southern Tribeca that were nominated – but never designated – as individual landmarks, during an effort in the 1980s to create a Tribeca historic district. In September 1989, the Commission had held public hearings and considered the building for landmark status, but it never acted on the matter, and the building was \"calendared\" ever since. By August 2010, city building records reflected that out of a group of 29 buildings that had been proposed for historic landmark designation in 1989, including 45–47 Park Place, twenty-three had been deemed landmarks and six were pending. The pending applications included 45–47 Park Place. At that point, New York City had more than 11,000 landmarked buildings.\n\nMuslims had a presence in Lower Manhattan for many years prior to the September 11, 2001, attacks. At least two mosques existed near the World Trade Center, and several designated Muslim prayer rooms existed within the World Trade Center buildings.\n\nDuring the September 11 attacks, the then-five-story building at 45–47 Park Place, between West Broadway and Church Street, was severely damaged. When United Airlines Flight 175 struck the South Tower of the World Trade Center, part of the plane's landing gear, engine and fuselage came out the north side of the tower and crashed through the roof of 45–47 Park Place, and through two of its floors. The plane parts destroyed three floor beams, and severely compromised the building's internal structure. The damage was not immediately noticed during an exterior assessment. It was later discovered during an interior assessment. In April 2013, the New York Police Department announced that surveyors inspecting the building had discovered a wide piece, long airplane part complete with Boeing identification number wedged in an wide alley between 51 Park and 50 Murray Street. Initially officials thought it was part of the landing gear but Boeing confirmed it was the trailing edge flap actuation support structure of an airplane flap from a Boeing 767, the type of jet which hit both towers. A photograph of the piece initially showed a rope around it. Police said the rope was used by an officer who lassoed it to see the identification number. Boeing could not say which specific plane it was from.\n\nThe 45–47 Park Place building, located about two blocks () north of the World Trade Center site, was owned by Stephen Pomerantz and his wife Kukiko Mitani and leased to the Burlington Coat Factory. For years, Mitani attempted to sell the building, at one point asking for $18 million. It lay abandoned until its purchase in July 2009. For several months thereafter, the building was used as an overflow prayer space for up to 450 Muslims, with services led by Feisal Abdul Rauf, an Imam based at the al-Farah mosque in nearby TriBeCa.\n\nIn July 2009, the real estate company and developer Soho Properties purchased the building and property at 45–47 Park Place for $4.85 million in cash. Soho Properties' Chairman and CEO, Sharif El-Gamal, initially planned to build a condominium complex at the site, but was convinced by Imam Feisal Abdul Rauf's idea for a community center with a prayer space. El-Gamal's partner is Nour Mousa, the nephew of Amr Moussa, the Secretary General of the Arab League.\nThe investors in the transaction were the Cordoba Initiative, a tax-exempt foundation with assets of $20,000, and the American Society for Muslim Advancement (ASMA), also a non-profit organization. At the time, Rauf was founder, CEO, and Executive Director of Cordoba Initiative, and founder and CEO of ASMA, and his wife, Daisy Khan, was the ASMA Executive Director. In the Cordoba Initiative's first five years, from 2004–08, it raised less than $100,000. Both organizations were run out of the same New York office. The two foundations proposed to use the property as the site for a $100 million community center modeled after NYC's Jewish Community Centers and YMCAs. They were working on the project with El-Gamal, their co-developer.\n\nThe 49–51 Park Place half of the \"45–51\" parcel was still owned by the utility Con Edison (Con Ed). Soho Properties paid an additional $700,000 to assume a $33,000-a-year lease with Con Ed, for its adjacent attached former sub-station. The plan was to build the facility on the site of the two buildings, as the lease for 49–51 Park Place was expire in 2071. The two buildings were connected internally, with common walls having been taken down. El-Gamal informed Con Ed in February 2010 that he wanted to exercise his purchase option on the lease. Although the price was reportedly estimated at $10–$20 million, El-Gamal said the cost \"is not an issue\". The sale was to be reviewed by the New York Public Service Commission, where it might face a vote by a five-member board controlled by the New York governor's office.\n\nThe specific location of the planned facility, \"where a piece of the wreckage fell\", so close to the World Trade Center, was a primary selling point for the Muslims who bought the building. Rauf said it \"sends the opposite statement to what happened on 9/11\" and \"We want to push back against the extremists.\"\n\nWhile the media widely described the center as a mosque, and the protests were against the mosque, the Initiative's official blog portrayed it as a community center with prayer space, making comparisons to the YMCA or Jewish Community Center. The Initiative said that some services planned for Park51 such as the restaurant and performance center, disqualify it from being a mosque. Daisy Khan, Imam Rauf's wife and partner, in August 2010 also said:\n\nThe official website for the facility had said it would include \"a mosque, intended to be run separately from Park51 but open to and accessible to all members, visitors and our New York community\". By September 2010, the word mosque had been replaced with \"prayer space\". In an interview in July 2010, lead developer of the project Sharif el-Gamal had supported the inclusion of a mosque as needed by the New York Muslim community.\n\nThe Muslim prayer space is planned to occupy two floors of the 13 story building. Besides the prayer space, the Initiative's plan includes a 500-seat auditorium, theater, performing arts center, fitness center, swimming pool, basketball court, childcare services, art exhibitions, bookstore, culinary school, and a food court serving halal dishes.\n\nEl-Gamal said he wanted the building to be energy-efficient and transparent, most likely with a glass façade. The project envisions the demolition of two buildings at 45–47 Park Place and Broadway which were damaged on 9/11. They would be replaced by a glass and steel structure with a new address, 45–51 Park Place. A number of commentators stated that the builders planned either the groundbreaking or opening date to coincide with anniversaries of the September 11 attacks. Khan said in a July 2010 conversation with Media Matters for America that such assertions were \"absolutely false\" and that the construction timeline had not been determined; furthermore, those making such assertions have no proof of their claims. However, in a May 2010 Associated Press interview Khan said that the Initiative may plan for groundbreaking to coincide with the 10th anniversary of the attacks.\n\nKhan also said that it was anticipated that 1,000 to 2,000 Muslims would pray at the prayer center every Friday, once it was completed.\n\nKhan said the project is intended to foster better relations between Islam and Americans. Explaining the choice of location, she said, \"We decided we wanted to look at the legacy of 9/11 and do something positive.\" She added that her group represents moderate Muslims who want \"to reverse the trend of extremism and the kind of ideology that the extremists are spreading\". Pointing to the fact that ordinary Muslims have been killed by Muslim extremists all over the world, Khan also said about the center, \"For us it is a symbol... that will give voice to the silent majority of Muslims who suffer at the hands of extremists. A center will show that Muslims will be part of rebuilding Lower Manhattan.\"\n\nOn May 25, 2010, the local community board backed part of the plans for Cordoba House to be built on the site in a non-binding advisory vote of 29-to-1, with 10 abstentions. The endorsement related only to \"the important community facilities [the project] will provide\", and the resolution indicated that the board \"takes no position regarding the religious aspects or any religious facilities associated with either the Cordoba Initiative or the Cordoba House Project\". The board's chairwoman, Julie Menin, supported deletion of references to the building as a mosque and interfaith center that were in an earlier draft of the resolution, saying: \"I personally was uncomfortable with the language that talked about the religious institution. I believe it's not the purview of a city agency to be weighing in on the siting of any religious institution, be it a mosque, synagogue, or church.\"\n\nThe meeting where the vote was held was contentious. Some of the speakers supporting the project were Muslims who lost family members in the attacks, and were booed by protesters. Some non-Muslim relatives of 9/11 victims also spoke in support, but other family members objected to the project, claiming the location is insensitive.\n\nAs the controversy grew New York City's Landmarks Preservation Commission agreed to reconsider the 1980s landmark application which it had not acted on previously. On August 3, 2010, it voted 9–0 against granting landmark status and historic protection to the building. That cleared the way for it to be demolished, and the new Cordoba House to be built in its place.\n\nThe following day, Timothy Brown, a firefighter who survived 9/11, filed a lawsuit in New York State Supreme Court in Manhattan asking the court to nullify the Commission's decision. He praised 45–47 Park Place, quoting the Commission's own description of it as \"a fine example of the Italian Renaissance-inspired palazzi\" that flourished in the mid-19th century in the area. The suit was filed on his behalf by the American Center for Law and Justice, a conservative public interest firm.\n\nOn July 10, 2011, Justice Paul G. Feinman of the New York State Supreme Court dismissed Brown's case, writing that the firefighter was \"an individual with a strong interest in preservation of the building\", but added that he lacked any special legal standing regarding its fate. Adam Leitman Bailey, the lawyer who represented the Islamic center's developer pro bono, called the decision \"a victory for America\" and said, \"Despite the tempest of religious hatred, the judge flexed our Constitution's muscles enforcing the very bedrock of our democracy.\" Jack Lester, a lawyer for Brown, said, \"We believe the brave men and women who risked their lives have standing to preserve the monuments and historic buildings at ground zero.\" \n\nOn September 21, 2011, Park51 was opened to the public as of renovated space in the Burlington Coat Factory building hoping to replace the building \"in several years time\". Visitors were able to view 160 portraits of immigrant children living in New York during the exhibit called \"NYChildren\", and a modest carpeted prayer room is located in the lower level.\n\nIn August 2011, \"The New York Times\" reported that Sharif El-Gamal, the project's developer, was quietly proceeding with efforts to move Park51 forward, embracing a \"slower, more deliberate and more realistic approach\" than before. However, in April 2014, Sharif El-Gamal announced his plans to demolish the current building and replace it with a three-story museum of Islamic culture. He hired French architect Jean Nouvel.\n\nIn late August 2014, the \"Times\" announced that the original mosque plans would not proceed. Instead, a three-story Islamic museum with a prayer space and condos would be built at 49-51 Park Place, which at the time was the location of a Con Edison building. Con Edison sold the buildings at 49-51 Park Place building. The buildings on the two lots have not been torn down yet, however.\n\nIn September 2015, it was reported by Bloomberg that the owner of the site now instead plans to build a , 70-story luxury condominium building at the site to take advantage of the booming residential real estate market in lower Manhattan. In addition to the 70-story condo at 45 Park Place, El-Gamal plans a three story Islamic museum at 51 Park Place.\n\nOn May 19, 2016, Sharif El-Gamal secured Sharia-compliant financing for a 43-story building for \"high-end\" condos with room for a three-story Islamic cultural museum. A $174 million loan was secured from a consortium let by Malayan Banking Bhd. and includes banks from Kuwait, Italy, and an additional $45 million in financing from Saudi Arabia.\n\nProminent opponents and supporters of the project were found among the families of the 9/11 victims, the American and worldwide Muslim communities, and local and national politicians, making it a divisive political campaign issue in the 2010 midterm elections. The controversy over the project coincided with unexpected protests of mosque projects in other states, leading to concerns that relations between Muslims and non-Muslims within the US were deteriorating.\n\nImam Abdul Rauf promised to identify all financial backers of Park51. Developer Sharif El-Gamal had stated that they will refuse money from groups such as the government of Iran and Hamas as well as any other \"organizations that have un-American values\". \"The New York Post\" stated that initially Imam Abdul Rauf said the project would be funded entirely by the Muslim American community, though later he told London-based Arabic-language newspaper \"Asharq Al-Awsat\" that he would seek funding from Muslim and Arab nations. The latter story was also reported by NBC.\n\nClaudia Rosett, a journalist with the Foundation for Defense of Democracies and a weekly columnist for \"Forbes\", questioned the source of the funding for the project. Some U.S. politicians such as Connecticut Senator Joe Lieberman, an Independent Democrat, and Republicans Peter King and Rick Lazio, asked for an investigation of the group's finances, especially its foreign funding, despite the fact that fundraising for the project had not yet begun. King said: \"The people who are involved in the construction of the mosque are refusing to say where their [$100 million] funding is going to come from.\" Lazio said: \"Let's have transparency. If they're foreign governments, we ought to know about it. If they're radical organizations, we ought to know about it.\"\n\nDr. Zuhdi Jasser, President of the American Islamic Forum for Democracy, called for transparency in the funding of the project, suggesting foreign sources could imply an ulterior agenda. Reza Aslan responded to Dr. Jasser's demand by saying that it was \"absurd\" to assume that overseas funding must necessarily involve extremism. He also said that it would be acceptable to demand mosques to be transparent about funding if the same was also demanded of a Catholic church or a Jewish temple.\n\nMayor Michael Bloomberg said: \"Where does [the money] come from?' I don't know. Do you really want every time they pass the basket in your church, and you throw a buck in, they run over and say, '... where do you come from? ... Where did you get this money?' No.\" The TV news anchor Rick Sanchez said: \"...if you start going into who is giving money to whom ... you have to go to my church. You have got to go to Rome and start asking where the money is going into Rome. And you have to go to the Mormons and ask them, well, what are they doing with their money?\"\n\nVogel and Russonello cite claims that donations \"totaling $900,000, that the government of Qatar and a foundation run by Saudi Prince Alwaleed bin Talal have made to nonprofits or projects headed by Feisal Abdul Rauf\" are involved. They further explore the funding of the project's opponents.\n\nOn the side of opponents to the project, fundings come from the Fairbrook Foundation, the umbrella organization of pro-Israël activists Aubrey & Joyce Chernick.\n\nAbdul Rauf, a Kuwaiti-American Sufi Muslim, was the chief proponent of the project until he was replaced in January 2011. Some U.S. politicians and others voiced concerns about his views. Others, including \"The Economist\" have described him as \"a well-meaning American cleric who has spent years trying to promote interfaith understanding\".\n\nIn an interview September 8, 2010 Abdul Rauf was asked if he would have done anything differently had he known the controversy would erupt. His answer: \"If I knew this would happen, this would cause this kind of pain, I wouldn't have done it. My life has been devoted to peacemaking.\"\n\nThe Stratfor email leaks posted on WikiLeaks identify Abdul Rauf as an \"operational asset of the FBI\", and speculate that the entire project may have been undertaken for political reasons.\n\nCounterterrorism analysts have noted that the developing controversy over Park51 has provided a \"recruitment opportunity\" for radical Islamist groups. According to Evan Kohlmann, the senior partner in the New York-based security firm Flashpoint Global Partners, \"[t]he reaction is, at least on the part of extremists, fairly gleeful – that America is playing into our hands, that America is revealing its ugly face, and that even if it doesn't further radicalize people in the Middle East, there's no doubt that it will radicalize a kind of a key constituency that al-Qaida and other extremists are seeking to covet, seeking to court, which is the small number of homegrown extremists here in the United States\".\n\n\"Newsweek\" quotes a Taliban operative as explicitly connecting increased opposition to the project with increased support for the Taliban's cause. \"By preventing this mosque from being built, America is doing us a big favor,\" the Taliban operative stated. \"It's providing us with more recruits, donations, and popular support.\"\n\nIn 2012, filmmaker David Osit produced a documentary about the Park51 controversy, specifically following the story through the experiences of developer Sharif El-Gamal. The film aired on PBS in the fall of 2013.\n\nPolls showed that the majority of Americans, New York State residents, and New York City residents opposed building the center near Ground Zero, although a plurality or majority of Manhattanites supported construction. In July 2010, the majority of Americans were opposed to the Islamic center. By a margin of 54–20%, American adults were opposed to a mosque being built near Ground Zero, a national Rasmussen Reports poll found that month.\nFurthermore, according to an August 10–11 Fox News poll, 64% of Americans (a majority of each of Democrats (56–38%), Republicans (76–17%), and Independents (53–41%)) thought it would be wrong to build a mosque and Islamic cultural center so close to Ground Zero, and 30% felt it would be appropriate.\n\nA CNN poll conducted August 6–10, 2010, found that Americans opposed the Park51 project by a margin of 68–29%. A majority of each of Democrats (54–34%), Republicans (82–17%), and Independents (70–24%) were opposed. An Economist/YouGov national poll taken the week of August 19, 2010 confirmed these findings. Overall, this poll found that Americans opposed the Park51 project by a margin of 57.9–17.5%, with 24.5% undecided on the question. Democrats (41.0–28.0%), Republicans (88.3–1.7%) and Independents (57.6–21.3%) were opposed to the project according to this poll.\n\nIn addition, by a margin of 52–31% New York City voters opposed the construction, according to a Quinnipiac University Polling Institute poll carried out in June 2010. At the same time, 46% of Manhattanites supported it, while 36% opposed it. Opposition was strongest in Staten Island, where 73% opposed it while only 14% supported it. A higher percentage of Republicans (82%) than Democrats (45%) opposed the plan.\n\nA Marist Poll taken July 28 – August 5, 2010 showed a similar city-wide margin of registered voters against it (53–34%, with 13% unsure), although those in Manhattan supported it, reversing the figures: 53% to 31%, with 16% unsure. An updated Marist poll in September 2010 showed that support for Park51 had grown, with 41% in favor and 51% opposed. Support among African Americans, liberals, Democrats, and residents of the Bronx had increased. Manhattanites remained supportive.\n\nStatewide, by a margin of 61–26% New Yorkers opposed the community center's construction at that location, according to another poll in August 2010, by Siena Research Institute, whose poll question wording was criticized by a writer at \"Slate\" magazine. A majority of both Republicans (81%) and Democrats (55%) were opposed to it, as were conservatives (85%), moderates (55%), and liberals (52%). Among New York City residents, a margin of 56–33% opposed it.\n\nSome polls tried to gauge public opinion of Muslims' right to build Park51 near ground zero. The Quinnipiac University Polling Institute poll of New York State residents released August 31, 2010 found a 54–40 percent majority of voters agreeing 'that because of American freedom of religion, Muslims have the right to build the mosque near Ground Zero'. A Fox News national poll taken August 10–11, 2010 found that 61% felt that the project developers had a right to build a mosque there (a majority of Democrats (63–32%), Republicans (57–36%), and Independents (69–29%). The Economist/YouGov poll taken the week of August 19, 2010 concurred that Democrats (57.5–24.9%) and Independents (62.3–25.2%) believed Muslims had a \"constitutional right\" to build a mosque at the site, but found that Republicans (31.8–53.2%) did not believe that Muslims had such a right. The poll found that 50.2%, overall, supported the constitutional right to build at the site, 32.7% were opposed and 17.1% had no opinion.\n\nThe Economist/YouGov poll also noted that 52% of Americans believe that \"Muslims should be able to build mosques in the United States wherever other religions can build houses of worship\", as opposed to 34% who believe that \"there are some places in the United States where it is not appropriate to build mosques, though it would be appropriate to build other houses of worship\" and 14% who believe \"mosques should not be permitted anywhere in the United States\".\n\nThe prospect of building a mosque close to Ground Zero was offensive to some opponents of the construction project, since the hijackers in the September 11, 2001 attacks identified as Muslim. Newt Gingrich declared: \"There should be no mosque near Ground Zero in New York so long as there are no churches or synagogues in Saudi Arabia.\"\n\nSome relatives of victims of the September 11 attacks said they found the proposal offensive because the perpetrators who committed the attacks did so in the name of Islam. A number said that it was not an issue of freedom of religion, property rights, or racism, but rather one of sensitivity to the families of those killed, in choosing the specific location of the center.\n\nA group of victims' relatives, 9/11 Families for a Safe & Strong America, called the proposal \"a gross insult to the memory of those who were killed on that terrible day\". Debra Burlingame, a co-founder of the group whose brother died in the attacks, said:\n\nThis is a place which is from where almost 3,000 people were torn to pieces by Islamic extremists... it is incredibly insensitive and audacious ... for them to build a mosque ... so that they could be in proximity to where that atrocity happened ... The idea that you would establish a religious institution that embraces the very \"shariah\" law that terrorists point to as their justification for what they did ... to build that where almost 3,000 people died, that is an obscenity to me.\n\nSally Regenhard, whose son was a firefighter who was killed in the attacks, and who has testified before Congress on 9/11, said that the center would be \"sacrilege on sacred ground\", and that \"People are being accused of being anti-Muslim and racist, but this is simply a matter of sensitivity.\" Former NY Fire Department Deputy Chief Jim Riches, whose son Jim was killed, said: \"I don't want to have to go down to a memorial where my son died on 9/11, and look at a mosque,\" adding \"this is all about location, location, location. It's not about religious freedom ... be sensitive to the families.\" Michael Burke, whose brother died, wrote: \"Freedom of religion or expression and private property rights are not the issues ... Decency is; right and wrong is ... [M]any believe that their \"rights\" supersede all other considerations, like what is respectful, considerate, and decent. A mosque ... steps from Ground Zero in a building damaged in the attacks is ... astoundingly insensitive\".\n\nC. Lee Hanson, whose son, daughter-in-law, and baby granddaughter were killed, felt that building a tribute to Islam so close to the World Trade Center site would be insensitive: \"The pain never goes away. When I look over there and I see a mosque, it's going to hurt. Build it someplace else.\" Rosemary Cain, whose son was killed, called the project a \"slap in the face\", and said \"I think it's despicable. That's sacred ground\", and \"I don't want a mosque on my son's grave\". Nancy Nee, whose brother was killed, said: \"It's almost like a trophy. The whole thing just reeks of arrogance at this point.\"\n\nEvelyn Pettigano, who lost a sister, said: \"I don't like it. I'm not prejudiced ... It's too close to the area where our family members were murdered.\" Dov Shefi, whose son Haggai was killed, said: \"the establishment of a mosque in this place ... is like bringing a pig into the Holy Temple. It is inconceivable that in all the city of New York, this site was specifically chosen.\" Cindy McGinty, whose husband was killed, said she hoped that officials would keep an eye on the funding source for the project, adding: \"Why did they pick this spot? Why aren't they being more sensitive? I don't trust it.\" Barry Zelman, whose brother was killed, said: \"We can say all Muslims did not do this, which is true. But they [terrorists] did it in the name of that religion. You wouldn't have a German cultural center on top of a death camp.\"\n\nRosaleen Tallon-DaRos, whose brother died, urged that the mosque not be put on that site, as did Tim Brown, a New York City firefighter who survived the attack. He said: \"The families lost their loved ones to terrorists, Islamic, Muslim terrorists who do not believe in religious freedom.\" Maureen Basnicki, a Canadian whose husband Ken died, questioned the message of the mosque and said that \"this all adds hurt and insult to our injuries.\"\n\nThe building of an Islamic community center near Ground Zero has been criticized by some Muslims. The Ahmadiyya Muslim Community does not directly oppose the building of a mosque near ground zero but views that the sentiments of non-Muslims should not be unduly hurt. They state that there are other places where mosques can be built and they do not see why that particular location has been chosen. The head of the Ahmadiyya Muslim Community, Mirza Masroor Ahmad in London, stated that:\n\nIf a mosque is built at the proposed site, then the Ahmadiyya Muslim Community would like to see churches, synagogues, Hindu places of worship and places of worship of all other religions also built near Ground Zero. That would be a good example of how from an act of evil and terror has emerged unity and peace. \n\nMuslim neoconservative journalist Stephen Schwartz, Executive Director of the non-profit Center for Islamic Pluralism, said that building the center two blocks from Ground Zero is inconsistent with the Sufi philosophy of simplicity of faith and sensitivity towards others and disregards the security of American Muslims. He also criticized what he termed Abdul Rauf's radical and suspect associations.\n\nAnother founding member of the Center for Islamic Pluralism, Zuhdi Jasser, who is also the founder of the American Islamic Forum for Democracy, a group of Muslim professionals in the Phoenix Valley of Arizona, strongly opposed the project, saying:\n\nFor us, a mosque was always a place to pray...not a way to make an ostentatious architectural statement. \"Ground Zero\" shouldn't be about promoting Islam. It's the place where war was declared on us as Americans.\" ... American freedom of religion is a right, but … it is not right to make one's religion a global political statement with a towering Islamic edifice that casts a shadow over the memorials of Ground Zero. … Islamists in 'moderate' disguise are still Islamists. In their own more subtle ways, the WTC mosque organizers end up serving the same aims (as) separatist and supremacist wings of political Islam.\nNeda Bolourchi, a Muslim whose mother died in 9/11, said: \"I fear it would become a symbol of victory for militant Muslims around the world.\"\n\nAuthors Raheel Raza and Tarek Fatah, board members of the Muslim Canadian Congress, said:\n\nNew York currently boasts at least 30 mosques so it's not as if there is pressing need to find space for worshipers. [W]e Muslims know ... [this] mosque is meant to be a deliberate provocation to thumb our noses at the infidel. The proposal has been made in bad faith, ... as \"Fitna\", meaning \"mischief-making\" that is clearly forbidden in the Koran... As Muslims we are dismayed that our co-religionists have such little consideration for their fellow citizens, and wish to rub salt in their wounds and pretend they are applying a balm to soothe the pain.\n\nAkbar Ahmed, Ibn Khaldun Chair of Islamic Studies at American University, while noting that blaming all Muslims for 9/11 was \"ridiculous\", said:\n\nAbdul Rahman Al-Rashid, general manager of Al-Arabiya television, also criticized the project in a column titled \"A House of Worship or a Symbol of Destruction?\" in the Arab daily A-Sharq Al-Awsat, saying:\n\nMuslims do not aspire for a mosque next to the September 11 cemetery...the mosque is not an issue for Muslims, and they have not heard of it until the shouting became loud between the supporters and the objectors, which is mostly an argument between non-Muslim US citizens! \n\nRima Fakih, the first Muslim-American crowned Miss USA as Miss USA 2010, opposed the project on the grounds of it being insensitive to families of 9/11 victims, telling \"Inside Edition\":\n\nI totally agree with President Obama with the statement on the constitutional rights of freedom of religion. [But] it shouldn't be so close to the World Trade Center. We should be more concerned with the tragedy than religion.\n\nA number of American politicians spoke out against the Park51 project. Arizona Senator John McCain, the Republicans' 2008 presidential nominee, said that it \"would harm relations, rather than help\", while his running mate Sarah Palin, the former Alaska governor, wrote on Twitter that \"Ground Zero Mosque supporters: doesn't it stab you in the heart, as it does ours throughout the heartland? Peaceful Muslims, pls refudiate\" (\"sic\")). Other critics included Mitt Romney, the former Massachusetts governor and 2012 Republican presidential candidate; Georgia Senator Johnny Isakson; Maine Senator Olympia Snowe; Idaho Senators Jim Risch and Mike Crapo; Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson; and Minnesota Governor Tim Pawlenty. North Carolina congressional candidate Ilario Pantano said, \"It is about ... territorial conquest. This mosque is a Martyr–Marker honoring the terrorists\".\n\nFormer House Speaker Republican Newt Gingrich said: \"It's not about religion and is clearly an aggressive act that is offensive.\" Commenting on the project's name, he wrote:\n\n\"Cordoba House\" is a deliberately insulting term. It refers to Cordoba, Spain – the capital of Muslim conquerors, who symbolized their victory over the Christian Spaniards by transforming a church there into the world's third-largest mosque complex... every Islamist in the world recognizes Cordoba as a symbol of Islamic conquest.\n\nGingrich also decried the proposed Islamic center as a symbol of Muslim \"triumphalism,\" and said that building the center near the site of the 9/11 attacks \"would be like putting a Nazi sign next to the Holocaust Museum.\" Commenting on what Gingrich said, \"The Economist\" claimed that \"Like Mr bin Laden, Mr Gingrich is apparently still relitigating the victories and defeats of religious wars fought in Europe and the Middle East centuries ago. He should rejoin the modern world, before he does real harm.\"\n\nNew York Republicans who criticized the plan included former New York City mayor Rudy Giuliani, who called it a \"desecration; Nobody would allow something like that at Pearl Harbor... Let's have some respect for who died there and why they died there.\" Congressman Peter King, then the ranking Republican on the House Homeland Security Committee, called it \"offensive to so many people.\" Other opponents included former New York Governor George Pataki and former Congressman Rick Lazio. Gubernatorial candidate Carl Paladino said, \"The vast majority of New Yorkers and Americans have rejected their idea. If a bridge was their intent, why jam it down our throats? Why does it have to be right there?\" He said that if he were elected Governor of New York, he would use the power of eminent domain to stop construction of the center and instead build a war memorial in its place.\n\nNew York Republican Congressional candidate George Demos also objected. He said that the St. Nicholas Greek Orthodox Church, the only religious structure destroyed in the 9/11 attacks, should be rebuilt before moving forward on building an Islamic center in the area, and called for an investigation into the project's financing.\n\nNew York City Council Member Dan Halloran became the first elected official in New York City to publicly criticize the project, \"If we want a nation of peace,\" said city councilman Dan Halloran, whose cousin died on 9/11, \"then peace comes with understanding. And they need to understand that this is sacred ground to New Yorkers.\"\n\nPaul Sipos, a member of Manhattan Community Board 1, said:\n\nIf the Japanese decided to open a cultural center across from Pearl Harbor, that would be insensitive. If the Germans opened a Bach choral society across from Auschwitz, even after all these years, that would be an insensitive setting. I have absolutely nothing against Islam. I just think: Why there?\n\nA Republican political action committee, the National Republican Trust Political Action Committee, a Washington-based organization, created a television commercial attacking the proposal, saying \"we Americans will be heard\".\n\nDemocratic Independent Connecticut Senator Joe Lieberman indicated that he felt the project should be halted, pending further evaluation of its impact on the families and friends of 9/11 victims, project's sponsors' intentions, and their sources of funding.\n\nNew York Democratic Assemblyman of District 92 and Attorney-General-candidate Richard Brodsky said it was, \"offensive to me... raises concerns and bad memories and needs to be dealt with on a human level. The murder wasn't an Islamic crime, but it was a crime committed in the name of Islam by people most Muslims reject.\"\n\nSenate Majority Leader Democrat Harry Reid of Nevada said, \"it is time to bring people together, not a time for polarization, and I think it would be better off for everyone if it were built somewhere else.\" Jim Manley, a spokesperson for Reid earlier had said, \"The First Amendment protects freedom of religion... Senator Reid respects that, but thinks that the mosque should be built some place else.\"\n\nDemocratic National Committee chairman, former Democratic Presidential Candidate, and 79th Governor of Vermont Howard Dean called the project \"a real affront to people who lost their lives\" and wrote \"the builders have to be willing to go beyond what is their right and be willing to talk about feelings whether the feelings are 'justified' or not.\" Dean also argues that most people opposed \"are not right-wing hate mongers\".\n\nDemocratic Representative Mike McMahon of New York's 13 District provided a written statement:\n\nWe have seen very clearly in the past weeks that building a mosque two blocks from ground zero will not promote necessary interfaith dialogue, but will continue to fracture the faiths and citizens of our city and this country. As such, I am opposed to the construction of the Cordoba Center at the currently-proposed location and urge all parties to work with local community leaders to find a more appropriate site.\n\nDemocratic Representative Steve Israel of the 2nd District in New York said in Newsday, \"While they have a constitutional right to build the mosque, it would be better if they had demonstrated more sensitivity to the families of 9/11 victims. I urge them to do so before proceeding further.\"\n\nDemocratic Representative Tim Bishop of New York's 1st District also disagrees with the location, \"As a New Yorker, I believe Ground Zero is sacred ground and should unite us. If the group seeking to build the mosque is sincere in its efforts to bring people together, I would urge them to seek an alternative location which is less divisive. I dispute the wisdom of building at that location, not the constitutional right.\"\n\nDemocrat John Hall of northern New York's 19th District was also quoted as being against the chosen location, \"I think honoring those killed on Sept. 11 and showing sensitivity to their families, it would be best if the center were built at a different location\".\n\nNew York City fireman Tim Brown opposed the project, saying: \"A mosque ... that's using foreign money from countries with \"shariah\" law is unacceptable, especially in this neighborhood\". Brown allied with the American Center for Law & Justice (ACLJ), a conservative law firm founded by Pat Robertson that champions the rights of Christians to build and worship freely. Brown sought to pressure Abdul Rauf to disclose fully the project's funding sources. Peter Ferrara, General Counsel of the American Civil Rights Union (not to be confused with the ACLU), observed: \"The Cordoba Mosque was the third largest mosque complex in the world ... built on the site of a former Christian church, to commemorate the Muslim conquest of Spain. This perpetuated a cultural Muslim practice of building mosques on the sites of historic conquests.\"\n\nMore than 20,000 people signed an online petition for the Committee to Stop the Ground Zero Mosque, and unsuccessfully lobbied the NYC Landmarks Preservation Commission to give the location landmark status, which would have added a major hurdle to construction.\n\nRichard Land, President of the Southern Baptist Convention's Ethics & Religious Liberty Commission, said \"putting a mosque ... very close to Ground Zero is unacceptable... Even though the vast majority of Muslims ... condemned their actions on Sept. 11, 2001, it still remains a fact that the people who perpetrated the 9/11 attack were Muslims and proclaimed they were doing what they were doing in the name of Islam.\" Bill Rench, pastor of Calvary Baptist Church which is located near the proposed mosque site, also spoke out against its construction.\n\nThe Zionist Organization of America opposes the construction of Park51 due to its location, and questions about Abdul Rauf. The Simon Wiesenthal Center also opposes the location of the planned Park51.\n\nSpeaking in his capacity as a \"spokesperson for the conservative Tea Party political movement\", Mark Williams called it a monument to the terror attacks. He characterized the proposed religious facilities at the site as a place which would be used for \"terrorists to worship their monkey god\". Williams would be expelled from the National Tea Party Federation two months after making this remark, for racially inflammatory remarks regarding a later and unrelated controversy.\n\nThe Dove World Outreach Center also held a protest against the building of Park51.\n\nWriting in the \"National Review\", political blogger Daniel Pipes stated his opposition to the construction of any Islamist institution anywhere although he did not object to a truly moderate Muslim institution in proximity to Ground Zero.\n\nNotable British comedian and internet personality Pat Condell criticized the construction of Park51 in a video entitled \"No mosque at Ground Zero\" where he claimed that it was representative of Islamic triumphalism and that the United States was soon on the verge of Islamization and have its freedoms trimmed, as Europe has.\n\nSimilarly, political commentator Charles Krauthammer also criticized the construction, saying that it could potentially serve as a breeding ground for Islamic extremism.\n\nOn August 9, 2010, Greg Gutfeld stated that he planned on constructing New York City's first Islamic-friendly gay bar next to the proposed center. He stated that \"As an American, I believe they have every right to build the mosque. [...] Which is, why, in the spirit of outreach, I've decided to do the same thing.\" He insisted that \"this is not a joke,\" and further stated that the project was \"an effort to break down barriers and reduce deadly homophobia in the Islamic world.\"\n\nProject supporters have argued that the Park51 building would not be visible from the World Trade Center site, and that some victims and victims' families have expressed support for the Park51 project, as well as acknowledging the fact that victims of the 9/11 attacks also included Muslims.\n\nSome relatives of victims of the 9/11 attacks expressed support for the project. Colleen Kelley, who lost her brother William on 9/11, says, the \"irony in the debate over the section of the building that would house a mosque is that one might assume that God (the same God to Jews-Christians-Muslims) would be pleased with any type of effort that involves prayer and service to others.\"\n\nOrlando Rodriguez and Phyllis Schaefer Rodriguez, whose son died in the attack, say they \"support the building of the Islamic community center in lower Manhattan\" and \"feel that it would honor our son and other victims\".\n\nHerb Ouida, whose son Todd died, said: \"To say that we're going to condemn a religion and castigate a billion people in the world because they're Muslims, to say that they shouldn't have the ability to pray near the World Trade Center – I don't think that's going to bring people together and cross the divide.\"\n\nMarvin Bethea, a former EMS worker who was forced to retire in 2004 because of breathing problems caused by working at the 9/11 site, believes racism is a factor in the controversy, He said \"even though my life has changed, I don't hate the Muslims. Especially being a black man, I know what it's like to be discriminated against. I've lived with that.\"\n\nDonna O'Connor, whose pregnant daughter died on 9/11, expressed the opinion that \"This building will serve as an emblem for the rest of the world that Americans ... recognize that the evil acts of a few must never damn the innocent.\"\n\nTed Olson, former Solicitor General in the George W. Bush administration, whose wife, television commentator Barbara Olson, died in the plane that crashed into the Pentagon, has expressed support for the rights of the Park51 organizers to construct the new site. In remarks on MSNBC, Olson said \"we don't want to turn an act of hate against us by extremists into an act of intolerance for people of religious faith.\"\n\nBruce Wallace, whose nephew died as he rushed in to help the victims, says \"the media seems eager to trumpet the feelings of those hurt by the idea of the center. They mostly ignore my feelings and those, like me, who feel the center is an important step for Americans.\"\n\nJudith Keane, whose husband was killed on 9/11, says \"To punish a group of Americans who live in peace for the acts of a few is wrong. The worst atrocities in history found their base in fear of those who were different.\"\n\nTalat Hamdani, whose son was a first responder in the rescue effort and died in 9/11, co-wrote an article supporting the center in the interest of pluralism. She has also criticized the argument about sensitivity arguing that it was more about the legality of the situation and \"our rights as Americans. We are protected under the Constitution. There is freedom of religion.\" Implying that the ban could be the thin edge of the wedge she said \"You know, if it's one faith today, it's going to be another faith tomorrow. That is scary. And to scapegoat the Muslims for the acts of a foreign terrorist, that is – that is hatred.\" She went on \"... if that argument is valid, then, by that token, Timothy McVeigh's actions also makes all Christians terrorists. So, that is wrong.\"\n\nThe anti-war group September 11th Families for Peaceful Tomorrows, released a statement in support of the center, saying \"we believe that welcoming the Center, which is intended to promote interfaith tolerance and respect, is consistent with fundamental American values of freedom and justice for all,\" adding it will be \"an emblem for the rest of the world that Americans stand against violence, intolerance, and overt acts of racism and that we recognize that the evil acts of a few must never damn the innocent\".\n\nTerry Rockefeller, whose sister was killed, said: \"this doesn't insult her at all. This celebrates the city she loved living in. It is what makes America what we are.\"\n\nSue Rosenblum, of Coral Springs, Florida, whose son Josh was killed in the WTC attacks on 9/11, said in reference to the planned center: \"What are we teaching if we say you can't build here? That it's OK to hate? This is a country based on freedom of religion.\"\n\nOn August 13, 2010, in a speech at the annual White House Iftar dinner celebrating the Islamic holy month of Ramadan, President Barack Obama acknowledged the right of Muslims to build the Islamic center. Obama said, \"Muslims have the same right to practice their religion as anyone else in this country. And that includes the right to build a place of worship and a community center on private property in lower Manhattan, in accordance with local laws and ordinances.\" Obama clarified the next day that he was only speaking of legal rights and \"was not commenting... on the \"wisdom\" of making the decision to put a mosque there\".\n\nNew York Mayor Michael Bloomberg strongly endorsed the project, saying that Ground Zero was a \"very appropriate place\" for a mosque, because it \"tells the world\" that the U.S. has freedom of religion for everyone. Responding to opposition, he said: \n\nThe government should never, never be in the business of telling people how they should pray, or where they can pray. We want to make sure that everybody from around the world feels comfortable coming here, living here, and praying the way they want to pray.\n\n\"Democracy is stronger than this,\" he added. Remarking on opposition to the center's location, he said: \"To cave to popular sentiment would be to hand a victory to the terrorists. We should not stand for that.\" Responding to a question about the pain the project was causing some family members, he said:\n\nI don't see an enormous number of people. I was at a fundraiser ... maybe 50 ... people who had lost [family] members. 100% in that room kept saying, 'please keep it up, keep it up'... our relatives would have wanted this country, and this city, to follow and actually practice what we preach.\n\nBloomberg was asked if he was satisfied that \"he is indeed a man of peace given his background where he's supposedly supported Hamas, blamed the U.S. for 9/11 attacks?\" The mayor responded: \n\nMy job is not to vet clergy in this city... Everybody has a right to their opinions. You don't have to worship there... this country is not built around ... only those ... clergy people that we agree with... It's built around freedom. That's the wonderful thing about the First Amendment – you can say anything you want.\n\nCommunity Board 1 Financial Committee Chairman Edward \"Ro\" Sheffe opined: \"it will be a wonderful asset to the community.\" New York City Councilwoman Margaret Chin said: \"The center is something the community needs\".\n\nAdditional New York politicians supported the proposal. These included Manhattan Borough President Scott Stringer, who said \"I'll do everything I can to make sure this mosque does get opened\", and U.S. Representative Jerrold Nadler, who stated that \"the government has no business deciding\". Other supporters included New York State Senator Daniel Squadron, New York City Comptroller John Liu, New York City Council Speaker Christine Quinn, and Public Advocate Bill de Blasio.\n\nNadler remarked that \"a mosque in the Pentagon ... hasn't drawn any criticism\", despite the Pentagon also being a target of the 9/11 attacks. What is referred to as the \"Pentagon mosque\" is, more precisely, a non-denominational chapel which was built and dedicated in 2002 in honor of Pentagon employees and passengers of American Airlines Flight 77 who died in the September 11 attack. Daily Muslim prayer sessions are held there weekday afternoons, and weekly Muslim services are led by an imam from a local mosque every Friday, which means the room can be considered a \"mussallaah\", a sacred space where Muslims \"consistently perform their mid-day prayer when they do not have access to a mosque\". This Muslim use of the Pentagon facility has drawn no complaints.\n\nOrrin Hatch, a Republican Senator from Utah, voiced support of the project on religious freedom grounds. Hatch is a Mormon and cited an instance where a neighborhood tried to prevent a Mormon temple from being built.\n\nCongressman Ron Paul (R-Tex.) published a statement of support on August 20, 2010 to his campaign website defending the Cordoba House's planned Islamic community center. Congressman Paul attributed the controversy over the community center to Islamophobia and neo-conservatives who disregard their commitment to the First Amendment and property rights to agitate voters.\n\nRepresentative Keith Ellison, the U.S.'s first Muslim congressman, supported the center's location on the basis of the First Amendment and religious tolerance, and Massachusetts Governor Deval Patrick also voiced support, saying: \"The sooner we separate the peaceful teaching of Islam from the behavior of terrorists, the better for all of us.\"\n\nMark McKinnon, a former advisor to Republican President George W. Bush, criticized Republican opposition to the project: \"And here we are, reinforcing al Qaeda's message that we're at war with Muslims.\" Another former Bush aide, speechwriter and policy advisor Michael Gerson, agreed that prohibiting the center would \"undermine the war on terrorism\":\n\nThe militants hope, above all else, to provoke conflict between the West and Islam – to graft their totalitarian political manias onto a broader movement of Muslim solidarity. America hopes to draw a line that isolates the politically violent and those who tolerate political violence – creating solidarity with Muslim opponents and victims of radicalism.\n\nMahmoud al-Zahar, a founding member and leader of Hamas in the Gaza Strip, said of the planned Cordoba House: \"We have to build everywhere,\" and \"In every area we have, (as) Muslim(s), we have to pray, and this mosque is the only site of prayer.\" Zahar also said \"We have to build the mosque, as you are allowed to build the church and Israelis are building their holy places.\"\n\nFormer US President Bill Clinton also supported Park51, after noting that many Muslims were also killed on September 11. He suggested that the developers could have avoided controversy if they dedicated the center to the Muslim victims of the attacks.\n\nFormer Minnesota Governor Jesse Ventura gave his support to Park51, arguing that the First Amendment allows for a mosque to be built near Ground Zero. Ventura also argued that denying the right for a mosque to be built near Ground Zero would be similar to removing churches from Oklahoma City, where the Oklahoma City bombing occurred (the deadliest act of terrorism in the United States prior to 9/11), if Timothy McVeigh, the man who perpetrated the attack, was a Christian. Ventura also demanded that opposition to the Ground Zero Mosque should be ignored because \"people need to remember, the Constitution and the Bill of Rights should be written in stone. You cannot subject them to the popularity. They are there to protect unpopular things, like the First Amendment. The First Amendment is to protect unpopular speech simply because popular speech doesn't need to be protected. It's as simple as that. And you can't, you know, bend the Constitution to the blowing winds of whatever polls might say, otherwise it's a worthless, useless document which in many ways they're turning it to that anyway.\"\n\nIbrahim Hooper, Communications Director of the Council on American-Islamic Relations (CAIR), charged that the controversy was \"manufactured\" by \"bigots\". He also asserted that only a vocal minority was complaining. And Nihad Awad, CAIR's Executive Director, said that the opinion of Republican Congressman Peter King \"should not be considered, because his ideas are extreme\". Fareed Zakaria, \"Newsweek\" journalist and CNN host, also strongly supported the project, and returned a prestigious award he received in 2005 from the Anti-Defamation League, saying he was \"personally and deeply saddened\" by their opposition towards the project. He wrote: \"...Rauf, is a moderate Muslim clergyman. He has said one or two things about American foreign policy that strike me as overly critical – but it's stuff you could read on \"The Huffington Post\" any day. On Islam, his main subject, Abdul Rauf's views are clear: he routinely denounces all terrorism – as he did again last week, publicly.\"\n\nThe Muslim Public Affairs Council also supported the project.\n\nThe Anti-Defamation League (ADL), a U.S. Jewish civil rights group that had spoken out against anti-Muslim bigotry, denounced what it saw as bigoted attacks on the project. Its head opined that some of those who oppose the project are \"bigots\", and that the plan's proponents may have every right to build the center at that location. Nevertheless, the group recommended selecting a different location, and appealed to the builders to consider the sensitivities of the victims' families, saying that building the community center at that site would unnecessarily cause more pain for families of some victims of 9/11. As a consequence of their statement Fareed Zakaria the winner of the ADL's 2005 Hubert Humphrey First Amendment Freedoms Prize has returned the prize and the prize money.\n\nThe Jewish political group J Street also supported the construction on religious freedom grounds.\n\nThe New York Civil Liberties Union and the American Civil Liberties Union supported it as well, citing principles of religious freedom. The Interfaith Alliance also supported the project, while indicating that it agreed with the need for transparency as to who is funding the project.\n\nA petition circulated by the liberal political action committee Votevets.org garnered 14,000 signatures in support of the center, including 450 war veterans from the Afghanistan and Iraq wars, and 4,000 veterans from wars from other eras.\n\nMark R. Cohen, professor of Jewish Civilization in the Near East in the Department of Near Eastern Studies at Princeton University, opined that \"The presence of ... mosques like the one planned near Ground Zero, which will be an educational center as well as a place of prayer, is one good way of transcending ... ignorance.\"\n\nRabbi Geoffrey Dennis, of the University of North Texas Jewish Studies Program said that when it comes to the issue of freedom to practice religion in a private sphere, such as on a piece of private property in Lower Manhattan, freedom of religion is virtually inviolate.\n\nBoston University Department of Religion professor Stephen Prothero spoke out against the arguments that Cordoba House should not be built near Ground Zero.\n\nPadraic O'Hare, professor of Religious and Theological Studies and Director of the Center for the Study of Jewish-Christian-Muslim Relations at Merrimack College, argued that prayer leads to peace: \"Build a Muslim house of prayer near Ground Zero? ... Hand me the shovel.\"\n\nDuring a CNN interview, Reza Aslan, a professor of creative writing at the University of California, Riverside, defended Imam Abdul Rauf as \"cited by government's sources in the United States as one of America's most pluralistic peace promoting religious leaders in the country\". He defended the center as an \"American-Muslim\" center similar to the Jewish center built close to it.\n\nDuring the 2010 US Open tennis tournament Pakistan's Aisam-ul-Haq Qureshi said, \"For me, as a Muslim, that's what makes America the greatest country in the world – freedom of religion, freedom of speech. If the mosque is built, I think it's a huge gesture to all the Muslim community out there in the world. I would really appreciate it.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52701288", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52701288", "title": "Petrus Divaeus", "text": "Petrus Divaeus\n\nPieter Van Dieven, Latinized Petrus Divaeus (1535–1581) was a 16th-century scholar who wrote on the history of Belgic Gaul, the charters and liberties of the city of Leuven, and the history of the duchy of Brabant. Most of his work was issued in print only after his death.\n\nDivaeus was born in Leuven in 1536, and served as clerk of the city council. Appointed pensionary of Mechelen, he died there in 1581.\n\n"}
{"id": "53850852", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53850852", "title": "Phylosymbiosis", "text": "Phylosymbiosis\n\nIn the field of microbiome research, a group of species is said to show a phylosymbiotic signal if the degree of similarity between the species' microbiomes recapitulates to a significant extent their evolutionary history.\nIn other words, a phylosymbiotic signal among a group of species is evident if their microbiome similarity dendrogram could significantly\nrecapitulate their hosts phylogenic tree. For the analysis of the phylosymbiotic signal to be reliable, environmental differences\nthat could shape the host microbiome should be either eliminated or accounted for.\nOne plausible mechanistic explanation for such phenomena could be, for example, a result of host immune genes that rapidly evolve in a continues arms race with members of its microbiome.\n\n"}
{"id": "2153902", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2153902", "title": "Ray Neff", "text": "Ray Neff\n\nDr. Ray Neff was a health sciences professor at Indiana State University with a chemistry background. He was a leading proponent of an alternative theory about the assassination of Abraham Lincoln and his killer, John Wilkes Booth. Neff died on September 11, 2009. His wife, Augusta, accompanied him on his research trips. She was a frequent witness to his findings and is referred to in the notes of \"Dark Union\" [see below] when he uses \"we\" to describe or recount discoveries or findings. Augusta died on December 30, 2013. They are buried together in Marshall, Illinois. \n\nNeff is the co-author of \"Dark Union\" along with Leonard Guttridge, a writer of numerous other histories, many dealing with exploration and discovery. The book proposes an alternative view to the conventional version of Lincoln's assassination. While it mentions the theory that Secretary of War Edwin M. Stanton was involved in the assassination conspiracy, the book dismisses it and suggests that John Wilkes Booth took on the role of assassin largely for personal reasons. \"Dark Union\" also contends that Booth escaped, eventually settling in India, as it was James W. Boyd who was actually shot in the barn at Garrett's farm. Documents in a collection housed at Indiana State University and donated by Neff and Guttridge deal, in part, with the subject matter of \"Dark Union\". The theory advanced in the book is in marked contrast with the version of the assassination proposed by Edward Steers, Jr.\n\nNeff is also one of many historians who traces the roots of Lincoln's assassination to the Dahlgren Affair, one of the very few areas where he and Steers agree.\n\nRay Neff was the editor or author of other works. For example, he published a well-received family history and edited a new edition of Civil War memoirs written by Lafayette C. Baker. A book by Neff, \"China Gold\", was issued after his death by his son Robert and made available on Amazon.com. Neff never intended for this book to be published, as he felt it needed extensive revision. It deals only indirectly with any of the people mentioned in \"Dark Union\". \n"}
{"id": "42336424", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42336424", "title": "Silke Ackermann", "text": "Silke Ackermann\n\nSilke M. Ackermann () is a German museum curator and historian of science who is currently the Director of the Museum of the History of Science at Oxford University.\n\nAckermann studied History and Oriental Languages at the University of Frankfurt in Germany. After working for the \"Regesta Imperii\" Project, she wrote an MA thesis on the 13th-century mathematician, astronomer and astrologer Michael Scot entitled \"Michael Scot: a universal scholar of the 13th century: Sources of his life - Tradition of his works\". Ackermann continued this research for her PhD which she presented in 1996, and was later published as a book. During this research, Ackermann studied History of Science at the Institute for the History of Science within Frankfurt University and acted as an assistant to Prof. David King.\n\nFrom 1996, Ackermann was the Curator of European and Islamic scientific instruments at the British Museum in London. In April 2005 she was elected a fellow of the Society of Antiquaries. In 2012, Ackermann took up a professorship at the University of Applied Sciences in Schwerin, Germany, where she was later appointed president. From July 2013 to 2017 she was the President of the Scientific Instrument Commission. From March 2014, Ackermann has been Director of the Museum of the History of Science at Oxford University and fellow of Linacre College, taking over from the renowned and long serving Dr Jim Bennett who was succeed for 2 years by Stephen Johnston who served as the Acting Director from 2012 to 2014. She is the first ever female head of a museum at the University of Oxford.\n\nAckermann's research interests include the history of science of the Middle Ages and Renaissance and the Islamic World, scientific instruments (especially astrolabes), and knowledge transfer.\n\nContributed to:\n\n"}
{"id": "1179888", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1179888", "title": "Society of American Archivists", "text": "Society of American Archivists\n\nThe Society of American Archivists is the oldest and largest archivist association in North America, serving the educational and informational needs of more than 5,000 individual archivist and institutional members. Established in 1936, the organization serves upwards of 6,200 individual and member institutions.\n\nThe Society supports its members and the archival profession through strong publication and professional workshop programs and semi-annual meetings. Currently, workshops are given all across the United States and attend to current archival concerns and issues such as Encoded Archival Description, the digitizing of archival materials, and and conservation of materials, among others. The programs it offers include: Online On-Demand Programs, Online Real Time Programs and Face to Face Programs.\n\nThe Society of American Archivist was established in 1936 on the heels of the creation of the National Archives. The organization was born in the wake of the dissolution of the Public Archives Commission of the American Historical Association. The early days of the organization were fraught with difficulty related to membership as well as professional identity. The American Library Association created a commission on archives, which founding president Albert R. Newsome found disrespectful. There was also tension between the public archives tradition championed by Margaret Cross Norton and the historical manuscripts tradition as the governing philosophy. Public archives tradition puts emphasis on records management and administrative aspects of archival work, whereas historical manuscripts focuses more on the preservation and maintenance of important documents for research purposes. The tension and debate between the two fundamental functions of archives would continue into the 1950s, spilling into elements like elections and where to hold annual meetings.\n\nThe first issue of the Society's journal, the \"American Archivist\", appeared in 1938. In 1942, U.S. President Franklin D. Roosevelt was elected as an honorary member of the SAA due to his commitment to archiving federal, state and local government documents. After World War II, SAA joined with other international archivist societies to create the International Council on Archives and an archives for the United Nations. A number of committees focused on various interests of the Society, including Church Records and College and University Archives. These committees helped legitimize the Society, which aided them in a 1956 dispute with National Association of State Libraries over the differences between their two professions. This eventually lead to a joint committee between the American Library Associate and SAA to discuss the nuances and differences of the two professions.\n\nBy the 1970s, the majority of membership in SAA was made up of college and university archivists. These archivists, as well as the influence of more progressive social justice movements, allowed for the restructuring the organization as a whole, democratizing elections and restructuring committees. There was also a push for better professional resources as well as education standards. Coming out of the 1960s, there was a large movement of activist archivists, with members taking a greater interest in political and social issues. This forced SAA to take stances on different contemporary public issues that affected the profession. Social historians like Howard Zinn and Sam Bass Warner brought their views to the annual SAA meeting 1971, challenging archivists to re-examine policies and assumptions.\n\nIn the 1980s, a large portion of the Society's focus was on outreach. Systematic studies were conduct to assess who archives users were, how they used the archives, and why. The struggle for creating a professional identity continued as standards for education programs, certification, and institutional evaluation became the forefront of discussion. A Task Force on Goals and Priorities, created in 1982, aimed to amend those issues, attempting to unify the organization under one professional umbrella. New challenges also emerged with the widespread use of the Internet and digital technologies. SAA partnered with the Library of Congress in developing Encoded Archival Description in 1993. EAD is an XML Document Type Definitionand a standard for encoding archival finding aids, allowing them to be made accessible online. SAA also offers certification for Digital Archives Specialists, which allows for the profession to work within the emerging technological landscape and capture digital records.\n\nIn November 2017, SAA released a Strategic plan for 2018-2020, which outlined 4 major goal areas for the future. The 4 goal areas are advocating for archives and archivists, enhancing professional growth, advancing the field, and meeting members' needs.\n\nOn top of book publications, SAA offers the following regular publications:\n\n\nThe Society recognizes archivists' achievements with awards for advocacy, writing, and contributions to the profession. The highest honor is that of , a distinction awarded since 1957. Every year, there is a new Distinguished Fellows Class, which cannot exceed 5% of the total SAA membership in a given year. To qualify for nomination, a candidate must meet all the academic and technical requirements of the profession, be a member of the organization for at least 7 years, and make significant and high quality contributions in the form of scholarly writing, running workshops, and participating in the organization's leadership or other administrative roles.\n\n\nMeetings of the Society of American Archivists are often held jointly with other organizations such as the Council of State Archivists (CoSA), and the National Association of Government Archives and Records Administrators (NAGARA).\n\n"}
{"id": "43934217", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43934217", "title": "Stanislav Stanilov", "text": "Stanislav Stanilov\n\nStanislav Stanilov (Bulgarian: Станислав Станилов), (born 9 September 1943, in Gabrovo) is a Bulgarian archaeologist, historian and politician. Stanilov has been a member of the Attack since its founding in 2005 and became vice-chairman of its parliamentary group on 13 November 2007, a position which he still retains. In addition to his native Bulgarian, Stanilov is fluent in Russian and German.\n"}
{"id": "1313954", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1313954", "title": "Stanley Elkins", "text": "Stanley Elkins\n\nStanley M. Elkins (April 27, 1925 in Boston, Massachusetts - September 16, 2013 in Leeds, Massachusetts) was an American historian, best known for his controversial comparison of slavery in the United States to Nazi concentration camps, and for his collaborations (in a book and numerous articles) with Eric McKitrick regarding the early American Republic. He obtained his BA from Harvard University using GI bill scholarship, Ph.D. in history from Columbia University and taught at the University of Chicago, spending most of his career as a professor of history at Smith College.\n\nElkins was born in Boston to Frank and Frances Elkins (née Reiner). He attended Boston English High School and enlisted in the U.S. Army in 1943, serving in the 36th Infantry Regiment, fighting in France but primarily Italy during World War II. He served as initially a Scout and later a Prisoner Transport Guard (of German POWs). After the war, he married Dorothy Adele Lamken and attended Harvard University on the GI Bill (A.B. 1949), followed by Columbia University for graduate school in American history (M.A. 1951, Ph.D. 1958), where he studied under Richard Hofstadter. He and fellow graduate student Eric McKitrick received a joint appointment as assistant professors of history at the University of Chicago, where they taught from 1955 to 1960. In 1960 he joined the faculty at Smith College, where he was appointed the Sydenham Clark Parsons Professor Emeritus of History from 1969 until his death in 2013.\n\n\"Slavery: A Problem in American Institutional and Intellectual Life\" (1959), based on Elkins' doctoral dissertation at Columbia University, was theoretically innovative and enormously influential in the years after its publication, although its arguments are largely superseded today.\n\nElkins made two major, and controversial, arguments in \"Slavery\". The first was that American abolitionists undercut their own effectiveness by their insistence on ideological consistency and purity, and their refusal to compromise with the slave system. Elkins contrasted them with British abolitionists who, he argued, were more pragmatic and therefore more politically effective; he noted that Britain had abolished slavery without war.\n\nElkins's second argument was that the experience of slavery was psychologically infantilizing to slaves, making them follow what he controversially called the \"Sambo\" model. He based his arguments on then-recent sociological and psychological research by Bruno Bettelheim and others on inmates of Nazi concentration camps during World War II, showing that the totalitarian environment systematically destroyed their ability to resist, to plan, and to form positive relationships with one another. Elkins speculated that antebellum slavery was a similar environment and instilled an infantilized, dependent personality pattern. One implication, only partially spelled out in Elkins's account, was that this personality pattern might persist in his own time, a century after the end of slavery. Elkins' views were influential during the late 1960s when Daniel Patrick Moynihan supported affirmative action programs in order to counteract the lingering effects of slavery on black culture.\n\nThirdly Elkins argued that slavery in North America was strikingly different than in Latin America, a theme originated by historian Frank Tannenbaum regarding Brazil. That is, the Sambo model did not appear in Brazil.\n\n\"The Age of Federalism: The Early Republic, 1788-1800\", co-authored by Elkins and Eric McKitrick, was described as a \"dazzling book,\" featuring an \"elegant and penetrating pen portrait of Hamilton.\"\"The Age of Federalism\" won the Bancroft Prize. The book explores the history of the Federalist party, discusses the relationships among key players, among them Thomas Jefferson, John Jay, and Alexander Hamilton, and analyzes the administrations of George Washington and John Adams.\n\nInitially \"Slavery: A Problem in American Institutional and Intellectual Life\" was heralded by the black community as an important and positive contribution, but subsequently the comparison of black slavery and Nazi concentration camps was considered offensive by many descendants of both oppressed groups. The controversy is discussed by Ann Lane in her 1971 compilation: \"The Debate Over Slavery, Stanley Elkins and His Critics\". Other historians began challenging Elkins's thesis, particularly John W. Blassingame's \"The Slave Community: Plantation Life in the Antebellum South\" (1972).\n\n1995 Order of Cincinnatus Prize\n1994 Bancroft Prize\n1980 Visiting Fellow, St. Catherine's College, Oxford\n1970-71 Fellow, Institute for Advanced Study, Princeton\n1970-71 Guggenheim Fellow\n1967-68 National Endowment for the Humanities Grant\n1963-64 American Council of Learned Societies Fellowship\n1959-60 Rockefeller Foundation Grant\n1954-55 Rockefeller Foundation Fellow\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9722632", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9722632", "title": "Talpiot Tomb", "text": "Talpiot Tomb\n\nThe Talpiot Tomb (or Talpiyot Tomb) is a rock-cut tomb discovered in 1980 in the East Talpiot neighborhood, five kilometers (three miles) south of the Old City in East Jerusalem. It contained ten ossuaries, six inscribed with epigraphs, including one interpreted as \"Yeshua bar Yehosef\" (\"Joshua, son of Joseph\"), though the inscription is partially illegible, and its translation and interpretation is widely disputed. The tomb also yielded various human remains and several carvings.\n\nThe Talpiot discovery was documented in 1994 in \"Catalogue of Jewish Ossuaries in the Collections of the State of Israel\" numbers 701-709, and first discussed in the media in the United Kingdom during March/April 1996. Later that year an article describing the find was published in volume 29 of \"Atiqot\", the journal of the Israel Antiquities Authority. A controversial documentary film, \"The Lost Tomb of Jesus\", was produced in 2007 by director James Cameron and investigative journalist Simcha Jacobovici, and was released in conjunction with a book by Jacobovici and Charles Pellegrino titled \"The Jesus Family Tomb\". The book and film make the case that the Talpiot Tomb was the burial place of Jesus of Nazareth, members of his extended family, and several other figures from the New Testament—and, by inference, that Jesus had not risen from the dead as the New Testament describes. This conclusion is disputed by many archaeologists, theologians, and linguistic and biblical scholars.\n\nThe archaeological team that excavated the tomb in 1980 determined it to be from the Second Temple-Herodian period, which lasted from about 538 BC to AD 70. Typical of the area, a tomb of this type would be assumed to have belonged to a wealthy Jewish family. About 900 similar tombs have been unearthed in the same area.\n\nThe tomb was discovered on March 28, 1980, by construction workers laying the foundations for an apartment complex, when preparatory demolition work accidentally uncovered the tomb's entrance. The site was visited the next day by Amos Kloner, the area supervisor for the Israel Department of Antiquities (IDA, now the Israel Antiquities Authority, or IAA.) Kloner drew up a set of preliminary sketches and requested a permit for a salvage dig to be directed by Yosef Gat. The permit was issued Monday, March 31, but work actually began the day before. Although it has been said that the team was given only three days to complete the work, Gat's notes indicate that the work proceeded \"intermittently\" until its official end on April 11, with most of the work completed within the first two days.\n\nConstruction of the apartment buildings was completed in 1982. The children of Tova Bracha, a local resident, managed to get into the tomb and play inside. Bracha notified the authorities, who sealed the entrance for safety reasons. The children found some discarded Jewish religious texts that had been placed in the tomb, which was being used as a genizah.\n\nThe tomb, which is not open to the public, is located in a courtyard on Dov Gruner Street, down a flight of stairs at the corner of Olei Hagardom and Avshalom Haviv Streets. It was reopened in 2005 by Jacobovici, without permission from the Antiques Authority, during filming of his documentary \"The Lost Tomb of Jesus\", and resealed by officials shortly thereafter. In 2008 Ruth Gat, the widow of the archaeologist who supervised the original excavation, claimed that her husband kept the discovery a secret until the mid-1990s because he feared a wave of antisemitism would ensue if the tomb's existence was made public.\n\nThe tomb is carved from the solid limestone bedrock. Within are six kokhim, or burial shafts and two \"arcosolia\", or arched shelves where a body could be laid out for entombment. The ossuaries were found within the shafts.\n\nTen limestone ossuaries were found, with six of them bearing epigraphs although only four of them were recognized as such in the field. The archaeological team determined the ossuaries to be of little note, and delivered them to the Rockefeller Museum for analysis and storage.\n\nAccording to Jacobovici, Cameron, and religious studies professor James Tabor, one of the unmarked ossuaries later disappeared when it was stored in a courtyard outside the museum. This claim has been criticized by both Joe Zias, former curator of the museum, and Kloner.\n\nEach of the ten ossuaries contained human remains, said to be in an \"advanced state of deterioration\" by Amos Kloner. The tomb may have been multi-generational, with several generations of bones stored in each ossuary, but no record was kept of their contents and no analysis appears to have been done to determine how many individuals were represented by the bones found. In addition, three skulls were found on the floor of the tomb below the 0.5 metre fill layer, and crushed bones were found in the fill upon the arcosolia. The scattering of these bones below the fill indicated that the tomb had been disturbed in antiquity. All the bones were eventually turned over to religious authorities for burial.\n\nA chevron and circle pattern is visible above the entrance of the tomb.\n\nThe BBC first aired a documentary on the Talpiot Tomb in 1996 as part of its \"Heart of the Matter\" news magazine. At that time, Amos Kloner, the first archaeologist to examine the site said the claims of a connection to Jesus did not hold up archaeologically, adding \"They just want to get money for it.\" Others were similarly skeptical, although another of the archaeologists who discovered the tomb admitted \"I'm willing to accept the possibility.\"\n\nFollowing a symposium (\"Third Princeton Theological Seminary Symposium on Jewish Views of the Afterlife and Burial Practices in Second Temple Judaism: Evaluating the Talpiot Tomb in Context\") held in Jerusalem in January 2008, the media interest in the Talpiot tomb was reignited with most notably \"Time\" and CNN devoting extensive coverage, hailing the case as being reopened. In particular Simcha Jacobovici is reported to have issued statements to the press saying the symposium has reopened the case and that he felt \"totally vindicated\". Jacobovici has denied making any such press release.\n\nIt was during this symposium that Ruth Gat, while accepting a posthumous award for Yosef Gat, announced: \"My husband, the lead archaeologist of the East Talpiot tomb in southern Jerusalem, believed that the tomb he excavated in 1980 was, indeed, the tomb of Jesus of Nazareth and his family.\"\n\nFollowing the media's portrayal scholars present at the symposium accused Simcha Jacobovici and James Cameron of misleading the media in claiming the symposium reopened their theory as viable. Several scholars, including significantly all of the archaeologists and epigraphers, who had delivered papers at the symposium issued an open letter of complaint claiming misrepresentation, saying that Jacobovici and Cameron's claims of support from the symposium are \"nothing further from the truth\" and also \"that the majority of scholars in attendance – including all of the archaeologists and epigraphers who presented papers relating to the tomb - either reject the identification of the Talpiot tomb as belonging to Jesus’ family or find this claim highly speculative\".\n\nJoe Zias, Senior Curator of Archaeology/Anthropology for the Israel Antiquities Authority 1972-1997, cited a leaked memo issued from James Tabor before the symposium as proof of \"outside intervention by Simcha and Tabor in order to distort the agenda and skew the proceedings in a way that was favorable to their pre-conceived plan\". Géza Vermes issued a statement saying that the arguments for the Talpiot tomb are not \"just unconvincing but insignificant\".<ref name=\"2007 Alumni/ae Reunion\">2007 Alumni/ae Reunion</ref> That \"Discounting a handful, headed by James Tabor and Simcha Jacobovici, the maker of the documentary, The Lost Tomb of Jesus, most of the fifty or so participants shared this opinion\".\n\nPrinceton Theological Seminary issued a letter following the controversy and reiterated concerns that:\n\"the press following the symposium gave almost the exact opposite impression (\"of the symposium's results\"), stating, instead, that the conference proceedings gave credence to the identification of the Talpiot tomb with a putative family tomb of Jesus of Nazareth. As is abundantly clear from the statements to the contrary that have been issued since the symposium by many of the participants, such representations are patently false and blatantly misrepresent the spirit and scholarly content of the deliberations.\"\nThe proceedings of the symposium will be edited by James Charlesworth and published.\n\nAn edition of the scientific journal \"Near Eastern Archaeology\" (Vol. 69, Iss. 3/4, Sep-Dec 2006), published by \"The American Schools of Oriental Research\" contains several articles concerning the Talpiot Tomb, including an overview over the controversy.\n\n\"The Lost Tomb of Jesus\" premiered on The Discovery Channel on March 4, 2007, timed to coordinate with publication of Jacobovici's book \"The Jesus Family Tomb\".\n\nJacobovici argues that the bones of Jesus, Mary and Mary Magdalene, along with those of some of their relatives, were once entombed in this cave, working with statisticians, archaeologists, historians, DNA experts, robot-camera technicians, epigraphers and a forensic expert to argue his case.\n\nIsraeli archaeologist Amos Kloner, who was among the first to examine the tomb when it was first discovered, said the names marked on the coffins were very common at the time. \"I don't accept the news that it was used by Jesus or his family,\" he told the BBC News website. \"The documentary filmmakers are using it to sell their film.\"\n\nIn 2010, Tabor and Jacobovici examined (although without fully excavating) the previously unexcavated 1st-century Jewish tomb next to the alleged 'Jesus Family tomb'. Tabor indicated that they would be released at a press conference in November 2011, and in a forthcoming book.\n\nA central question has regarded the probability that a tomb might contain the specific group of names as the Talpiot Tomb. Experts such as Richard Bauckham, David Mavorah and Amos Kloner have asserted the commonness of archaeological inscriptions bearing the name \"Jesus\". Paul Maier, professor of ancient history at Western Michigan University, notes that there were at least 21 \"Yeshuas\" or Jesuses famous enough to be included in the histories of Josephus.\nFor their part, the filmmakers present a statistical study conducted by Andrey Feuerverger, professor of statistics and mathematics at the University of Toronto, which concluded that while the names are not uncommon, the conservative odds that such names would be found together in any one tomb around are (depending on variables) from 600 to 1 to 1,000,000 to 1 in favor of its being authentic.\n\nHowever, Feuerverger later said, \"It is not in the purview of statistics to conclude whether or not this tombsite is that of the New Testament family. Any such conclusion much more rightfully belongs to the purview of biblical historical scholars who are in a much better position to assess the assumptions entering into the computations. The role of statistics here is primarily to attempt to assess the odds of an equally (or more) 'compelling' cluster of names arising purely by chance under certain random sampling assumptions and under certain historical assumptions. In this respect I now believe that I should not assert any conclusions connecting this tomb with any hypothetical one of the NT family.\" Feuerverger's assessment was based on several assumptions:\n\nSupport for these assumptions comes, according to the documentary, from the following claims:\n\nFurther information regarding the methodology was published in \"The Annals of Applied Statistics\".\n\nAccording to geologist Aryeh Shimron the tomb could be authentic and linked to the James Ossuary. He believes that the tomb is the tomb of the family of Jesus - Jesus, Mary Magdalene and their son Judah. However, Prof. Amos Kloner, who oversaw the archaeological work at Talpiot tomb disagrees. According to Prof Kloner, the James Ossuary could not have come from the Talpiot tomb, because the so-called missing ossuary of the Talpiot tomb had no inscription and was of different dimensions.\n\nOn February 25, 2007, Feuerverger conducted a statistical calculation on the name cluster as part of \"The Lost Tomb of Jesus\". He concluded that the odds are at least 600 to 1 that the combination of names appeared in the tomb by chance. The methodology of this study has been submitted to a journal, but in the meantime a summary can be found on the Discovery Channel and documentary websites. A more detailed explanation of the statistical approach can be found also on Feuerverger's website as well as in a recent interview given to \"Scientific American\". The frequency distribution for names prevalent during the period of time during which ossuary burials took place was inferred by studying two key sources:\nAccording to Prof. Feuerverger, the goal of the statistical analysis is to assess the probability level of a null hypothesis:\n\"A 'null hypothesis' can be thought of here as asserting that this cluster of names arose purely by chance under random sampling from the onomasticon. The alternative hypothesis is the opposite of this, in some sense. It is not in the purview of statistics to conclude whether or not this tombsite is that of the New Testament family.\"\n\nFeuerverger multiplied the instances that each name appeared during the tomb's time period with the instances of every other name. He initially found \"Jesus Son of Joseph\" appeared once out of 190 times, Mariamne appeared once out of 160 times and so on:\n\nHe next divided 2,432,000 by 4 to account for bias in the historical record and further divided that result (608,000) by 1,000 to attempt to account for the number of explored tombs from first century Jerusalem.\n\nFeuerverger's conclusions have been called into question:\n\nStephan Pfann (president of Jerusalem's University of the Holy Land) points out that the commonality of these names suggests that the probability is much lower. \"Remarkably, a mere 16 of the 72 personal names [found on ossuaries] account for 75% of the inscribed names.\" Among these \"top 16\" names are Mary, Joseph, Jesus, Matthew, and Judas (and variations thereof)\n\nBetween the submission of Feuerverger's paper to a journal and its publication, François Bovon noted that he had not made the statement about the name Mariamne which had been ascribed to him by Jacobovici and conveyed to Feuerverger. Specifically, although Feuerverger had factored into his calculations the understanding that Bovon had identified Mariamne as the most likely name of Mary Magdalene, Bovon did not hold that belief. Feuerverger noted in his rejoinder to comments that this false understanding so perturbed his calculation that\n\nRichard Bauckham (Professor of New Testament Studies and Bishop Wardlaw Professor at St Andrews) compiled the following data to show just how common the names on these ossuaries are:\n\nColin Aitken, a professor of forensic statistics at Edinburgh University, stated that the study is based on a number of assumptions, and that, \"even if we accept the assumptions, 600 to one is certainly not the odds in favour of this tomb being Jesus\", meaning that even if it were true that to find this cluster of names is very unlikely, it does not follow that therefore this is probably the tomb of the family of Jesus. Peter Lampe, professor of New Testament Studies at the University of Heidelberg and working in archaeology, pointed out that in the 120s/130s C.E. in the port town of Maoza at the southern end of the Dead Sea, one Jewish household comprised the following names: Jesus, Simon, Mariame, Jacobus and Judah (Papyri Babatha 17 from 128 C.E.; 25-26 and 34 from 131 C.E.). These people had nothing to do with the New Testament or the Talpiyot tomb. \"According to the rationale of the filmmakers, these people should not have existed.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16595709", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16595709", "title": "Timeline of Tongan history", "text": "Timeline of Tongan history\n\nThis is a timeline of Tongan history, comprising important legal and territorial changes and political events in Tonga and its predecessor states. To read about the background to these events, see History of Tonga. See also the list of monarchs of Tonga and list of Prime Ministers of Tonga.\n\n"}
{"id": "211575", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=211575", "title": "Tom Holt", "text": "Tom Holt\n\nThomas Charles Louis \"Tom\" Holt (born 13 September 1961) is a British novelist. In addition to fiction published under his own name, he writes fantasy under the pseudonym K. J. Parker.\n\nHolt was born in London, the son of novelist Hazel Holt, and was educated at Westminster School, Wadham College, Oxford, and The College of Law, London.\n\nHis works include mythopoeic novels which parody or take as their theme various aspects of mythology, history or literature and develop them in new and often humorous ways. He has also written a number of historical novels writing as Thomas Holt. Steve Nallon collaborated with Holt to write \"I, Margaret\", a satirical autobiography of Margaret Thatcher published in 1989.\n\nThe list that follows is complete according to the list of books in 'Life Liberty and the Pursuit of Sausages, published 2012.\n\n\nUsing Thomas Holt as author name.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44717355", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44717355", "title": "Trade during the Viking Age", "text": "Trade during the Viking Age\n\nWhile the Vikings are perhaps best known for accumulating wealth through plunder, tribute, and conquest, they were also successful traders. The Vikings developed several trading centres and long-distance trade routes during the Viking Age (c. 8th Century AD to 11th Century AD). The Vikings also established a \"bullion economy\" in which weighed silver, and to a lesser extent gold, was used as a means of exchange.\n\nThe Vikings had a very vast, expansive, and planned out trade network. Trade took place on a gold level and over short distances. The majority of trade was conducted among the several ports that lined the Scandinavian coasts. The Vikings also engaged in trade with merchants throughout Europe, Asia and the Far East. The Volga and Dnieper Trade Routes were the two main trade routes that connected Northern Europe with Constantinople, Jerusalem, Baghdad, and the Caspian Sea. Several trade routes also ran through central Europe that connected Scandinavia with the Mediterranean. The Vikings are also believed to have sent merchants as far west as Greenland.\n\nAt the beginning of the Viking Age, the first proper trading towns developed in Scandinavia. These appeared in central locations along Scandinavia’s coasts near natural harbors or fjords. Trading centers varied in size, character, and significance. Only a select few developed into international trading posts. Every town was ruled by a king who imposed taxes on imported and exported goods in exchange for military protection of the town’s citizens.\n\nThe largest trading centers during the Viking Age were Ribe (Denmark), Kaupang (Norway), Hedeby (Denmark), and Birka (Sweden).\n\nHedeby was the largest and most important trading center. Located along the southern border of Denmark in the inner part of the Schlei Fjord, Hedeby controlled both the north/south trade routes (between Europe and Scandinavia) and the east/west routes (between the Baltic and the North Seas). At its peak, Hedeby’s population was around 1000 people.\n\nRibe, located on the West coast of Denmark, was established in the early 8th century as the eastern end of a trading and monetary network that stretched around the North Sea.\n\nThere were also several Viking trading centers located along several rivers in modern-day Russia including Gorodische, Gnezdovo, Cherigov, Novgorod, and Kiev. These towns became major trade destinations on the trading route from the Baltic Sea to Central Asia.\n\n\"Silver, silk, spices, weapons, wine, glassware, quern stones (for grinding grain), fine textiles, pottery, slaves, both precious and non-precious weapons\".\n\n\"Honey, tin, wheat, wool, various types of fur and hides, feathers, falcons, whalebone, walrus ivory, reindeer antler, and amber.\"\n\nSlaves and furs were the most important trade items. The Vikings bought and sold slaves throughout their trade network. Viking slaves were known as \"thralls\". The majority of imported slaves came from the Islamic world.\n\nMost of the trade during the Viking Age took place at the local level primarily involving agriculture products such as vegetables, grains, and cereals. Domestic animals were also traded among local peoples. These items were brought into town by farmers and traded for basic necessities, such as tools and clothes, and luxury items, such as glassware and jewelry.\n\nThe Viking Age saw the development of a bullion economy. In this economic framework, traders and merchants exchanged goods for bullion (precious metals, primarily gold and silver). Trade was usually accomplished by barter. Bullion lacked the formal quality control linked with coinage and therefore provided a highly flexible system. The durability of silver and gold made them more suited for a monetary role than many other commodities. By the 9th century, silver had become the basis for the Viking economy. Most of the silver was acquired from the Islamic world. When the silver mines near Baghdad ran dry in the late 10th century, the Vikings began to tap central Europe, specifically the Hraz Mountains in Germany. Bullion took the form of coins, ingots, and jewelry. The value of bullion was determined by its purity and mass. Methods used to test the purity of the metal included “pricking\" and “pecking” the surface to test the hardness of the alloy and reveal plating. Determining bullion’s mass required the use of weights and scales. Many of the bronze scales used by Viking traders folded on themselves making them compact and easy to carry for travel.\n\nThe two types of weights imported from foreign lands were cubo-octahedral weights (\"Dice weights\") and oblate spheroids (\"barrel weights\"). Both were produced in various sizes with markings indicating the weights they represented. The majority of imported weights came from the Islamic world and contained Arabic inscriptions.\n\nVikings also produced their own weights for measuring quantities of silver and gold. These lead weights were decorated with enameling, insert coins, or cut up ornamental metalwork. Unlike the dice weights or barrel weights, each lead weight was unique so there was no danger of them being rearranged or switched during the course of an exchange.\n\nEstimated exchange rates at the beginning of the 11th century in Iceland were:\n\nIf the weight of a piece of jewelry was more than needed to complete a purchase, it was cut up into smaller bits until the correct weight needed for the transaction was reached. The term hack silver is used to describe these silver objects. Silver ingots were primarily used for large/high-value transactions. The largest found weights weigh more than 1 kilogram each.\n\nPrecious metals were also used to display personal wealth and status. For example, Rus traders symbolized their wealth through silver neck rings. Silver or gold gifts were often exchanged to secure social and political relationships.\n\n"}
{"id": "4513372", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4513372", "title": "Trevor Pinch", "text": "Trevor Pinch\n\nTrevor J. Pinch (born 1 January 1952), is a British sociologist, part-time musician and former chair of the Science and Technology Studies department at Cornell University. In 2018, he won the J.D. Bernal Prize from the Society for Social Studies of Science for \"distinguished contributions to Science and Technology Studies over the course of [a] career\".\n\nPinch was born in Lisnaskea, Northern Ireland.\n\nHe has a degree in Physics from Imperial College London and a PhD in Sociology from the University of Bath.\n\nHe taught sociology at the University of York before moving to the United States.\n\nTogether with Wiebe Bijker, Pinch started the movement known as Social Construction of Technology (SCOT) within the sociology of science.\n\nHe is a significant contributor to the study of Sound culture, and his books include a major study of Robert Moog.\n\nPinch's book, \"Confronting Nature\" is widely considered the definitive sociological account of the history of the solar neutrino problem, and was mentioned by Raymond Davis in his 2002 Nobel Prize autobiography.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "898850", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=898850", "title": "Walafrid Strabo", "text": "Walafrid Strabo\n\nWalafrid, alternatively spelt Walahfrid, surnamed Strabo (or Strabus, i.e. \"squint-eyed\") (c. 808 – 18 August 849), was an Alemannic Benedictine monk and theological writer who lived on Reichenau Island.\n\nWalafrid Strabo's works are theological, historical and poetical.\n\nThere is an exposition of the first 20 psalms (published by Pez. in \"Thes. Anecdota nova\", iv.) and an epitome of Rabanus Maurus's commentary on Leviticus. An \"Expositio quatuor Evangeliorum\" is also ascribed to Walafrid.\nHis \"De exordiis et incrementis quarundam in observationibus ecclesiasticis rerum\" was written between 840 and 842 for Reginbert the Librarian.\n\nIt deals in 32 chapters with ecclesiastical usages, churches, altars, prayers, bells, pictures, baptism and the Holy Communion. Incidentally, he introduces into his explanations the current German expressions for the things he is treating of, with the apology that Solomon had set him the example by keeping monkeys as well as peacocks at his court. Of special interest is the fact that Walafrid, in his exposition of the Mass, shows no trace of any belief in the doctrine of transubstantiation as taught by his famous contemporary Radbertus; according to him, Christ gave to his disciples the sacraments of his Body and Blood in the substance of bread and wine, and taught them to celebrate them as a memorial of his Passion.\n\nIn the last chapter, Walafrid describes a hierarchical body of both lay and ecclesiastical officers, using Pauline metaphors (1 Cor 12:11-27) to underline the importance of such a body as an organic unity. In so doing, he articulates a view on the nature of public office, ideally based on a sense of responsibility with respect to society as a whole. While Johannes Fried is wary of associating this idealised scheme too much with current ideas about state and court in Louis' reign, Karl Ferdinand Werner and Stuart Airlie are rather more sympathetic to its relevance for contemporary thought at court: what gives the text added interest is that it was written by a courtier (Walafrid), representing a \"view from the centre\".\n\nWalafrid's chief historical works are the rhymed \"Vita sancti Galli\" (The Life of Saint Gall), which, though written down nearly two centuries after this saint's death, is still the primary authority for his life, and a much shorter life of Saint Othmar, abbot of St. Gall (died 759).\n\nWalafrid's poetical works also include a short life of Saint Blathmac, a high-born monk of Iona, murdered by the Danes in the first half of the 9th century; a life of Saint Mammes; and a \"Liber de visionibus Wettini\". This last poem, written in hexameters like the two preceding ones, was composed at the command of \"Father\" Adalgisus and was based upon a prose narrative by Haito, abbot of Reichenau from 806 to 822. It is dedicated to Grimald, brother of Wettin, his teacher. As Walafrid tells his audience, he was only eighteen when he sent it, and he begs his correspondent to revise his verses, because, \"as it is not lawful for a monk to hide anything from his abbot\", he fears he may deserve to be beaten. In the vision, Wettin saw Charlemagne suffering torture in Purgatory because of his sexual incontinence. The name of the ruler alluded to is not directly stated in the text, but \"Carolus Imperator\" form the initial letters of the relevant passage. Many of Walafrid's other poems are, or include, short addresses to kings and queens (Lothar, Charles, Louis, Pippin, Judith, etc.) and to friends (Einhard; Grimald; Rabanus Maurus; Tatto; Ebbo, Archbishop of Reims; Drogo, bishop of Metz; etc.).\n\nHis most famous poem is the \"Liber de cultura hortorum\" which was later published as the \"Hortulus\", dedicated to Grimald. It is an account of a little garden in Reichenau Island that he used to tend with his own hands, and is largely made up of descriptions of the various herbs he grows there and their medicinal and other uses, including beer brewing. Sage holds the place of honor; then comes rue, the antidote of poisons; and so on through melons, fennel, lilies, poppies, and many other plants, to wind up with the rose, \"which in virtue and scent surpasses all other herbs, and may rightly be called the flower of flowers.\"\n\nThe poem \"De Imagine Tetrici\" takes the form of a dialogue; it was inspired by an equestrian statue depicting a nude emperor on horseback believed to be Theodoric the Great which stood in front of Charlemagne's palace at Aachen.\n\nCodex Sangallensis 878 may be Walafrid's personal \"breviarium\", begun when he was a student at Fulda.\n\nJohannes Trithemius, Abbot of Sponheim (1462-1516), credited him with the authorship of the \"Glossa Ordinaria\" or \"Ordinary Glosses\" on the Bible. The work dates, however, from the 12th century, but Trithemius' erroneous ascription remained current well into the 20th century. The work is now attributed to Anselm of Laon and his followers.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3378620", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3378620", "title": "Wilhelm Klein", "text": "Wilhelm Klein\n\nWilhelm Klein (November 28, 1850 in Karánsebes (today Caransebeş), Hungary – 1924) was a Hungarian-Austrian archeologist.\n\nHe was born in Karánsebes, Krassó-Szörény County, Kingdom of Hungary (today Caransebeş, Caraş-Severin County, Romania) \n\nHe first studied Jewish theology and then philosophy at Vienna and Prague. The Austrian government subsequently sent him to Italy and Greece, where he engaged in archeological investigations, studying especially antique pottery. Klein was a professor of archeology at the German University of Prague, and a member of the \"Gesellschaft zur Förderung Deutscher Wissenschaft, Kunst, und Literatur in Böhmen\", as well as of the German Archeological Institute. \n\nHe has published: \"\"Euphronius\" (1886); \"Die Griechischen Vasen, mit Meisterinschriften\" (2d edition, Vienna, 1887); and \"Praxiteles\"\" (1897).\n"}
{"id": "11584029", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11584029", "title": "Yoav Gelber", "text": "Yoav Gelber\n\nYoav Gelber (; born September 25, 1943) is a professor of history at the University of Haifa, and was formerly a visiting professor at The University of Texas at Austin.\n\nHe was born in Mandatory Palestine in 1943 and studied world and Jewish history at the Hebrew University of Jerusalem and is an expert on the history of the Israel Defense Forces. Yoav Gelber is also known to have been a vocal opponent of Ilan Pappé when the latter was employed by the University of Haifa.\n\nIn 1973 Gelber served as the academic and military assistant to the Agranat Commission, and in 1982 participated in the official inquiry into the 1933 death of Haim Arlosoroff.\n\n\n"}
