{"id": "48457264", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48457264", "title": "2015 Houston, Texas Proposition 1", "text": "2015 Houston, Texas Proposition 1\n\nProposition 1 was a referendum held on November 3, 2015, on the anti-discrimination ordinance known as the Houston Equal Rights Ordinance (HERO). The ordinance was intended to improve anti-discrimination coverage based on sexual orientation and gender identity in Houston, specifically in areas such as housing and occupation where no anti-discrimination policy existed. Proposition 1 asked voters whether they approved HERO. Due to concerns about the bill being misused to allow men in women's restrooms, thus spawning the nickname of \"The Bathroom Bill,\" Houston voters rejected Proposal 1 by a vote of 61% to 39%.\n\nIn 2014, neither U.S. federal law nor Texas statewide law specifically covered sexual orientation or gender identity in employment and housing discrimination and services. On May 28, 2014, the Houston City Council voted 11–6 to enact the Houston Equal Rights Ordinance (HERO) which was authored by Houston's then-Mayor, Annise Parker. The measure banned discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation, gender identity, sex, race, color, ethnicity, national origin, age, religion, disability, pregnancy, genetic information, family, marital, and military status. The ordinance applied to businesses that serve the public, private employers, housing, city employment and city contracting. Religious institutions would be exempt. Violators could be fined up to $5,000.\n\nOpposition to HERO arose because the ordinance protected \"transgender residents' ability to use the restroom consistent with their gender expression, regardless of their biological sex.\" HERO became known to some as the \"Bathroom Law.\" Shortly after the ordinance passed, opponents of HERO drafted a petition and began gathering signatures to add a ballot measure to the November 2014 ballot to repeal the ordinance. City law required 17,296 valid signatures from registered Houston voters for a successful veto referendum petition, which would require the city council to either rescind the targeted ordinance themselves or put it before voters. This requirement was calculated by taking 10 percent of the greatest number of votes cast for mayor in any of the three preceding years. Moreover, signatures had to be submitted before the ordinance was scheduled to take effect or within 30 days of the publication of the approved ordinance, whichever came first. Opponents of HERO presented about 50,000 signatures to the Houston city secretary's office on July 3, 2014.\n\nAlthough the city secretary found enough valid signatures to make the petition sufficient, the city attorney advised her of certain problems with enough of the petition sheets to invalidate the petition. These problems included signature gatherers who were not registered to vote and petition sheets that were not signed by the signature gatherer responsible for them, as well as other, more technical problems. The city announced that the opponents were 2,022 signatures short of the 17,269 needed to put the matter to a vote. HERO opponents filed a lawsuit against Mayor Annise Parker and the city on August 5, 2014. In response, city attorneys defending the law filed subpoenas for sermons from local Christian pastors. Attorneys for the pastors called the subpoenas retaliation against Christians for opposing the ordinance. Parker maintained that the attorneys who dealt with the lawsuit for the city were outside lawyers (i.e., not city employees) and that she and City Attorney David Feldman had been unaware of the subpoenas. After what some news organizations called a \"firestorm\" of criticism over the subpoenas (Parker said that she had been \"vilified coast to coast\"), Parker directed the city's attorneys on October 29, 2014 to withdraw the subpoenas.\n\nAfter the subpoenas were withdrawn, local city pastors filed a civil rights lawsuit against Parker. The lawsuit went to trial on January 19, 2015. Feldman announced on December 19, 2014, his plans to resign from his position as Houston City Attorney shortly before the trial began. He said that the primary reason for his resignation was a desire to return to private practice. He also noted, however, that his decision to resign was related to the lawsuit as well, saying, \"Being on the outside, I'm going to be a lot freer to tell the story and to explain it to people and to debunk the myth.\" As reported by the Houston Chronicle, Feldman noted, too, that if he testified in the trial as the city attorney, it would prohibit other attorneys from the city's legal department from serving as counsel for the city. On February 13, 2015, a jury issued a verdict saying that while the petitions did not contain instances of fraud, they did contain forgeries and instances of failure to follow proper procedure. District Judge Robert Schaffer then initiated a recounting process to determine whether or not opponents of HERO had gathered enough valid signatures to satisfy the threshold of 17,296. Following the verdict in February, both sides claimed victory. A definitive answer, however, did not emerge until Judge Schaffer's ruling on April 17, 2015, when he determined that the opponents of the ordinance had not gathered enough valid signatures.\n\nIn May 2015, opponents of the ordinance asked the Texas Supreme Court for a writ of mandamus against the city of Houston. On July 24, 2015, the court granted this petition and ruled that the Houston City Council should have honored the city secretary's initial signature count and must either repeal the ordinance or include it on the November 2015 ballot, writing in a per curiam opinion, \"We agree ... that the city secretary certified their petition and thereby invoked the city council's ministerial duty to reconsider and repeal the ordinance or submit it to popular vote. The legislative power reserved to the people of Houston is not being honored.\"\n\nThe original ballot language crafted by the City of Houston was also challenged in court. After the Texas Supreme Court threw out the original wording, the city revised the ballot language.\n\nThe following question was placed on the 2015 general election ballot in Houston as Proposition 1:\n\nOn November 3, 2015, Houston voters voted by a 61%–39% margin to reject Proposition 1. This vote overturned the Houston Equal Rights Ordinance (HERO).\n\nThe appeal of Judge Schaffer's ruling is currently on hold in the Fourteenth Court of Appeals, with further litigation still possible. On November 24, 2015, Jared Woodfill, the lead plaintiff who sued the city, asked the case to be dismissed as moot. On December 15, 2015, the Court of Appeals announced it would consider the motion to dismiss alongside the merits of the case. On January 12, 2016, the Court ordered Jared Woodfill to file a brief on the merits by February 8, or the appeal would be dismissed, allowing Schaffer's ruling to stand.\n\nA \"YES\" vote was a vote to retain the Houston Equal Rights Ordinance; a \"NO\" vote was a vote to repeal it.\n\nProposition 1 gained the support of various citizens and organizations. The \"YES\" side raised $1,918,552 (as of December 4, 2015).\n\nProposition 1 was opposed by various citizens and organizations. These included the Campaign for Houston, which was described as an anti-LGBT hate group by the Southern Poverty Law Center. The \"NO\" side raised $398,472 (as of December 4, 2015).\n\nOn November 10, President Barack Obama officially announced his support for the Equality Act of 2015.\n\nHouston Mayor Annise Parker stated: \"I fear that this will have stained Houston's reputation as a tolerant, welcoming, global city. I absolutely fear that there will be a direct economic backlash as a result of this ordinance going into defeat and that's sad for Houston.\"\n\nSylvester Turner, who ran against Bill King in the 2015 Houston mayoral runoff election, said he is \"100 percent\" committed to reenacting Houston Equal Rights Ordinance (HERO) and attacked Bill King for saying he won't revisit the issue of HERO, along with his support from the Campaign for Houston. On December 12, 2015, Sylvester Turner beat Bill King and won the 2015 Houston mayoral runoff election.\n\nOn November 22, 2015, the National Collegiate Athletic Association said it would reconsider procedures in how it selects host cities for tournaments and championship events to include protections for the LGBT community.\n\nIn reaction, the NFL announced it will not alter plans to have the city host Super Bowl LI. Website \"Outsports\" claimed that the outcome of the vote could mean that \"Houston is no longer a 'safe place' for LGBT people to visit or do business, as they can be turned away from a hotel or by a waiter or cab driver, simply for 'looking or acting' gay or being trans\".\n"}
{"id": "30135617", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30135617", "title": "Alekseyev v. Russia", "text": "Alekseyev v. Russia\n\nAlekseyev v. Russia is a case before the European Court of Human Rights concerning the prohibition of the 2006, 2007 and 2008 \"Moscow Pride\" gay rights marches in Russia's capital. The case was brought by Russian LGBT activist Nikolay Alexeyev, organiser of the marches, who claimed the banning of the marches had violated Article 11 (freedom of assembly) of the European Convention on Human Rights. He claimed furthermore that he had not received an effective remedy under Article 13 against the violation of Article 11, and that he had been discriminated against by the authorities in Moscow under Article 14 in their consideration of his applications to hold the marches.\n\nThe First Section of the Court, sitting as a Chamber, found unanimously that there had been violations of Articles 11, 13 and 14 of the Convention. Their judgment was issued on 21 October 2010 and a referral by the Russian government to the Grand Chamber of the Court rejected on 11 April 2011, at which point the judgment became final.\n\nThe Applicant, Nikolay Alexeyev (spelt by the Court, \"Alekseyev\"), born 23 December 1977 in Moscow, is a Russian LGBT rights activist, lawyer and journalist.\n\nIn 2006, the Applicant along with several others began organising a march in Moscow, the capital of Russia, to demonstrate against discrimination against LGBT people in Russia. The march was to be held on 27 May that year, the anniversary of the legalisation of homosexuality in Russia. On 16 February, a statement was released by the Mayor of Moscow, Yury Luzhkov, stating that any proposed LGBT rights march would not be permitted to go ahead.\n\nNotice was given by the organisers of the march to the Mayor on 15 May 2006, that around two thousand people were expected to participate in a march from the Moscow Post Office along Myasnitskaya Street to Lubyanka Square, on 27 May starting at 3pm and lasting until 5pm. On 18 May, the organisers were informed that the Mayor had refused permission for the march on grounds of public order, for the prevention of riots and the protection of health, morals and the rights and freedoms of others.\n\nThe organisers submitted an alternative application involving only a picket in Lubyanka Square and also appealed the original refusal to a judge, however both were unsuccessful.\n\nOn 27 May 2006, when the march was intended to have been held, the Applicant along with several others attended a conference in honour of the International Day Against Homophobia and Transphobia, which had been on 17 May. The announced their intention of go to the Alexander Garden along the Western length of the Kremlin Wall, and lay flowers at the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier as an act of remembrance to victims of fascism, including LGBT victims. They intended to follow this with a protest against the banning of the march with a fifteen-minute picket at the office of the Mayor of Moscow on Tverskaya Street. When the Applicant and fifteen others arrived at the Garden, they found the gates locked and some hundred and fifty policemen from the OMON riot police unit patrolling, as well as around one hundred individuals protesting against the planned flower-laying. The Applicant was arrested and the other demonstrators proceeded to the Mayor's office. Around one hundred arrests were made by the OMON police officers of people attacking the LGBT demonstrators. The Applicant's account of events on this day was corroborated by reports from the International Lesbian and Gay Association (ILGA) and Human Rights Watch.\n\nOn 15 May 2007, the Applicant and other individuals submitted another application to the Mayor's office to hold a similar march to that proposed the year before, this time with an estimated attendance of five thousand one hundred people. This application was refused, and an alternative submitted proposing a picket before the Mayor's residence in Tverskaya Street and another in Novopushkinskiy Park, both of which were denied. On 27 May, the Applicant along with around twenty others attempted to deliver a petition against the prohibition of demonstration to the Mayor's office, but was detained by police along with two other men. He was convicted of the administrative offence of disobeying a lawful order from the police and fined one thousand roubles.\n\nOn 18 April 2008, the Applicant along with other organisers submitted notice of ten intended marches to be held on 1 and 2 May 2008. All were refused on public safety grounds, and the organisers submitted another fifteen applications for marches on 3 and 5 May, all of which were refused for the same reasons. The Applicant then submitted a raft of other proposals, including one to the recently elected President of Russia, Dmitry Medvedev, stating his intention to hold a march in the Alexander Garden on 31 May 2008, to which he received no reply.\n\nThe Applicant appealed all of the refusals unsuccessfully, and attempted to organise a picket for 17 May calling for criminal charges to be brought against the Mayor for banning the marches. Permission for this was refused on 13 May on the same grounds as previously, however the organisers managed to hold a picket for around ten minutes on Bolshaya Nikitskaya Street near the Mayor's residence.\n\nAlexeyev applied to the European Court of Human Rights, claiming the events surrounding the attempted marches in 2006 - 2008 had violated his right to freedom of assembly under Article 11 of the European Convention on Human Rights. He also claimed that he had not been able to access an effective remedy for the violation of Article 11, a violation of Article 13; and that the refusal to allow the marches to go forward had been discriminatory, in that it was made on the basis of his and other participants' sexual orientation, a violation of Article 14 in conjunction with Article 11.\n\nThe Court unanimously found violations of all three articles.\n\nGovernment's submissions\nThe Government claimed that domestic law allowed for the restriction of assembly on safety grounds, and that the circumstances of the Applicant's proposed marches and strength of public opinion against them would have meant a high risk of violence. They claimed Article 11 must be interpreted as allowing governments a broad margin of appreciation, as this was required to accommodate the cultural situation of homosexuality in Russia. The Government also claimed that it had been necessary to ban the event for the protection of morals, referring prominent religious organisations' opposition to the march, and that, as there was no consensus between member states as to the legitimacy of homosexuality within society, national authorities were better placed than the European Court to determine the conditions for such events.\n\nApplicant's submissions\nThe Applicant responded that the provisions used to ban the marches applied only to the safety and suitability of proposed venues rather than to a general risk of violence, and that the authorities on refusing an application for these reasons were obliged to suggest an alternative venue, which had not been done. He further contended that the Government's definition of morals was incorrect, as it referred only to majoritarian public opinion without regard to the concepts of pluralism or diversity. Furthermore, the proposed marches would not have been a threat to morals as they were concerned with human rights and civil liberties and would not have involved any sexually provocative content. He claimed the Government's references to public safety were unsubstantiated as they had not demonstrated an assessed risk of violence. He claimed finally that the sweeping nature of the ban was disproportionate and could not be justified on the grounds that it may have shocked or confused some parts of society (\"Bączkowski v Poland\").\n\nFindings of the Court\nThe Court found it unnecessary to consider the legitimate aim or domestic lawfulness of the ban as it had found the ban did not satisfy the requirement of being necessary in a democratic society.\n\nThe Court reiterated that Article 11 includes within it protection for assemblies which may be at risk of attack from groups who disagree with or are offended by the assembly's aims or purpose. (para.73) The Government had referred \"inter alia\" to a statement opposing the ban by the head Muslim cleric in Nizhniy Novgorod (Russia's fourth-largest city), that, \"as a matter of necessity, homosexuals must be stoned to death\", as evidence of the likely public disorder which would result from the march. The Court found that, \"[b]y relying on such blatantly unlawful calls as grounds for the ban, the authorities effectively endorsed the intentions of persons and organisations that clearly and deliberately intended to disrupt a peaceful demonstration in breach of the law and public order.\" (para.76)\n\nThe Court found the ban disproportionate to the Government's stated aim of protecting children and vulnerable adults from homosexual propaganda. It also dismissed the Government's claim that the march should have been banned for conflicting with religious doctrine and the moral values of the majority. It stated that, if a minority group's exercise of rights guaranteed under the Convention were made conditional upon acceptance of that group by the societal majority, it would be \"incompatible with the underlying values of the Convention\" (para.81).\n\nThe Court responded to the statement by the Government that there was a lack of consensus between member states as to the legitimacy of homosexuality, stating there was a long-standing consensus on such matters as legalisation of homosexual activity (\"Dudgeon v United Kingdom\"), homosexuals in the military (\"Smith and Grady v United Kingdom\"), parental rights, succession to tenancies (\"Karner v Austria\"), and equal ages of consent (\"S. L. v. Austria\"). While issues such as adoption by same-sex couples and access to same-sex marriage were yet to be brought to consensus, the Court found there was \"no ambiguity about the other member States' recognition of the right of individuals to openly identify themselves as gay, lesbian or any other sexual minority, and to promote their rights and freedoms, in particular by exercising their freedom of peaceful assembly.\" (para.84)\n\nThe Court found that the Government had taken no steps to assess the risk posed should the marches have gone ahead. It stated, \"The only factor taken into account by the Moscow authorities was the public opposition to the event, and the officials' own views on morals.\" (para.85) The Government had failed to demonstrate any pressing social need to ban such demonstrations for any of the reasons it had given. The Court therefore found the ban not to have been necessary in a democratic society, and to have been a violation of the right to freedom of assembly under Article 11.\n\nArticle 13 requires that within a member state a competent national authority must be able to provide a suitable domestic remedy to an aggrieved party, both to deal with the substance of the relevant Convention complaint and to grant appropriate relief. As the Applicant's Article 11 right had been violated, he was entitled to such relief under Article 13.\n\nThe Court stated that, in the circumstances, an appropriate remedy would have been for the Applicant to have been able to obtain a court ruling concerning the authorisation of the march before it was intended to take place. The Court found that the judicial remedies which had been available to the Applicant in the circumstances were of a \"post-hoc\" nature and could not have provided adequate redress to the Applicant, and that there had therefore been a violation of Article 13 (para. 99).\n\nArticle 14 protects against discrimination in access to rights under the Convention. Because it relates to access to rights, it can only be used in conjunction with another article, in this case Article 11.\n\nParties' submissions\nThe Government claimed that the antagonistic nature of the relationship between sexual minorities and religious groups in Russia meant it was necessary to place restrictions on the exercise of certain rights. The Applicant responded that the ban was discriminatory as it had been put in place due to the government of Moscow's disapproval of the participants' homosexuality. He referred to reference made by the Government to the disapproval of religious groups towards the march, and to comments made in the media by the Mayor of Moscow which were unfavourable towards homosexuality.\n\nFindings of the Court\nThe Court stated that homosexuality was a ground for discrimination under Article 14, and that the margin of appreciation afforded to member states in this regard was narrow. It was necessary to show not just that measures taken were \"suitable in general\", but that they were \"necessary in the circumstances\" (para.108), and that if the sole reason put forward by a member state for restrictions on access to the Convention rights were the victims' homosexuality, it would amount to discrimination under Article 14. The Court found on the facts that the march participants' sexual orientation had been the main reason for banning the events, and that there had therefore been a violation of Article 14 in conjunction with Article 11.\n\nThe Applicant had claimed €40,000 in non-pecuniary damages, of which the Government was ordered to pay €12,000, as well as €17,510 in costs.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45614399", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45614399", "title": "Arlene's Flowers lawsuit", "text": "Arlene's Flowers lawsuit\n\nThe Arlene's Flowers lawsuit is a group of merged civil suits brought against Arlene's Flowers of Richland, Washington, US, by a same-sex couple that was refused service, represented by the American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU), and by Washington Attorney General Bob Ferguson. The lawsuits gained national attention due to their religious and civil rights implications.\n\nThe first two legal cases, \"Ingersoll v. Arlene's Flowers\" and \"State of Washington v. Arlene's Flowers\" were consolidated by Benton County Superior Court Judge Salvador Mendoza into a single case for purposes of discovery.\n\nThe first civil suit, \"Ingersoll v. Arlene's Flowers\", was filed by a gay couple after Barronelle Stutzman, the owner of Arlene's Flowers, denied floral arrangements for their wedding. The couple had been customers of Stutzman's shop for nine years, but when they asked her to provide flowers for their wedding, the florist declined, citing her Christian beliefs. The same-sex couple denied Stutzman's services, Robert Ingersoll and Curt Freed, were represented by the ACLU in their lawsuit against the business on grounds of discrimination per the anti-discrimination laws of the state of Washington. Attorneys for the ACLU proposed a settlement in the suit with the following conditions: Stutzman making a public apology, donating $5,000 to a local LGBT youth center, and a promise to no longer refuse service to customers based on their sexual orientation. The legal group representing Stutzman, Alliance Defending Freedom, countered the settlement offer, stating she should not be required to violate her religious beliefs.\n\nThe second suit against Stutzman was a consumer protection suit filed by state Attorney General Bob Ferguson. The premise of the suit, \"State of Washington v. Arlene's Flowers\", was filed by Ferguson in order to uphold the state's Consumer Protection Act. Upon settlement, the decision would bring a $2,000 fine under the Washington Consumer Protection Act, a $1 payment for costs, and agreement not to discriminate in the future. Stutzman, however, responded that she would not comply, with her counsel citing the state's constitution in regard to \"freedom of conscience in all matters of religious sentiment\". Following Stutzman's response, Benton County Superior Court Judge Alexander Ekstrom ruled on January 7, 2015 that she could be sued in her personal capacity.\n\nA third lawsuit, \"Arlene's Flowers v. Ferguson\", was filed as a countersuit by Stutzman to claim financial hardship she suffered as a result of the previous two lawsuits.\n\nJudge Ekstrom ruled on February 18, 2015 that Stuzman had violated the state's anti-discrimination law in both cases. The next day, Stutzman's lawyers announced they would appeal the ruling. On March 27, 2015, Judge Ekstrom ordered Stutzman to pay a $1,000 fine and $1 for court costs and fees.\n\nVia GoFundMe, Stutzman received over $174,000 in individual donations before the website removed her donation page citing a violation of their terms of service. GoFundMe stated their policy bars fundraising campaigns it deems discriminatory.\n\nOn November 15, 2016, state Attorney General Ferguson personally argued the case before the Washington Supreme Court; the hearing was held before an audience at an auditorium on the campus of Bellevue College. On February 16, 2017, the state Supreme Court unanimously ruled against Stutzman, holding that her floral arrangements do not constitute protected free speech, and that providing flowers to a same-sex wedding would not serve as an endorsement of same-sex marriage. Rejecting Stutzman's Free Exercise Clause claim, Justice Sheryl Gordon McCloud wrote, \"this case is no more about the access to flowers than civil rights cases were about access to sandwiches.\"\n\nFollowing the state high court's decision, Stutzman filed a petition for a writ of certiorari in the Supreme Court of the United States, asking the Court to hear the case. During this case, a similar case, \"Masterpiece Cakeshop v. Colorado Civil Rights Commission\", had made its way to the Supreme Court, and which was decided in early June 2018. The ruling was made on procedural grounds in that the bakery owner's religious views were treated with hostility by the Colorado Civil Rights Commission, and remanded that a new hearing be made. Stutzman, on this news, stated that she had also found her religious views treated with hostility by the state of Washington, and sought a similar rehearing. On June 25, 2018, the Supreme Court granted the petition for a writ of certiorari, vacated the judgment, and remanded the case to the Supreme Court of Washington for further consideration in light of the \"Masterpiece Cakeshop\" decision.\n\n"}
{"id": "18042024", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18042024", "title": "Article 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights", "text": "Article 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights\n\nArticle 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights provides a right to respect for one's \"private and family life, his home and his correspondence\", subject to certain restrictions that are \"in accordance with law\" and \"necessary in a democratic society\". The European Convention on Human Rights (ECHR) (formally the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms) is an international treaty to protect human rights and fundamental freedoms in Europe.\n\nArticle 8 is considered to be one of the Convention's most open-ended provisions.\n\nFor better understanding of perception of \"private life\" case law should be analyzed. In \"Niemietz v. Germany\", the Court held that it \"does not consider it possible or necessary to attempt an exhaustive definition of the notion of 'private life'. However, it would be too restrictive to limit the notion to an 'inner circle' in which the individual may live his own personal life as he choose and to exclude therefrom entirely the outside world not encompassed within that circle. Respect for private life must also comprise to a certain degree the right to establish and develop relationship and develop relationship with other human beings.\"\n\nIn \"X, Y, and Z v. UK\", the Court recalls that \"the notion of 'family life' in Article 8 is not confined solely so the families based on marriage and may encompass other de facto relationship. When deciding whether a relationship can be said to amount to 'family life', a number of factors may be relevant, including whether the couples live together, the length of their relationship and whether they have demonstrated their commitment to each other by having children together or by any other means.\"\n\nIn \"Niemietz v Germany\" case the court gave broader meaning to the 'home' notion including professional/business premises such as a lawyer's office.\n\nArticle 8 clearly provides a right to be free of unlawful searches, but the Court has given the protection for \"private and family life\" that this article provides a broad interpretation, taking for instance that prohibition of private consensual homosexual acts violates this article. This may be compared to the jurisprudence of the United States Supreme Court, which has also adopted a somewhat broad interpretation of the right to privacy. Furthermore, Article 8 sometimes comprises positive obligations: whereas classical human rights are formulated as prohibiting a State from interfering with rights, and thus \"not\" to do something (e.g. not to separate a family under family life protection), the effective enjoyment of such rights may also include an obligation for the State to become active, and to \"do\" something (e.g. to enforce access for a divorced father to his child).\n\nThe notion of private life in the Article 8 is also interpreted as including some duty of environmental protection.\n\nThe following cases deal with the applicability of Article 8 to issues related to LGBT people including the recognition of same-sex marriage, laws prohibiting sodomy, and access to health services for transgender people.\n\nMass surveillance, such as by the programs revealed in Edward Snowden's global surveillance disclosures, is often accused of violating the 8th article of the European Convention on Human Rights.\n\nA 2014 report to the UN General Assembly by the United Nations' top official for counter-terrorism and human rights condemned mass electronic surveillance as a clear violation of core privacy rights guaranteed by multiple treaties and conventions and makes a distinction between \"targeted surveillance\" – which \"depend[s] upon the existence of prior suspicion of the targeted individual or organization\" – and \"mass surveillance\", by which \"states with high levels of Internet penetration can [] gain access to the telephone and e-mail content of an effectively unlimited number of users and maintain an overview of Internet activity associated with particular websites\". Only targeted interception of traffic and location data in order to combat serious crime, including terrorism, is justified, according to a decision by the European Court of Justice.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17986007", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17986007", "title": "Bioasphalt", "text": "Bioasphalt\n\nBioasphalt is an asphalt alternative made from non-petroleum based renewable resources.\n\nThese sources include sugar, molasses and rice, corn and potato starches, natural tree and gum resins, natural latex rubber and vegetable oils, lignin, cellulose, palm oil waste, coconut waste, peanut oil waste, canola oil waste, dried sewerage effluent and so on. Bitumen can also be made from waste vacuum tower bottoms produced in the process of cleaning used motor oils, which are normally burned or dumped into land fills.\n\nNon-petroleum based bitumen binders can be colored, which can reduce the temperatures of road surfaces and reduce the Urban heat islands.\n\nBecause of concerns over Peak oil, pollution and climate change, as well the oil price increases since 2003, non-petroleum alternatives have become more popular. This has led to the introduction of biobitumen alternatives that are more environmentally friendly and nontoxic.\n\nFor millions of people living in and around cities, heat islands are of growing concern. This phenomenon describes urban and suburban temperatures that are 1 to 6 °C (2 to 10 °F) hotter than nearby rural areas. Elevated temperatures can impact communities by increasing peak energy demand, air conditioning costs, air pollution levels, and heat-related illness and mortality. There are common-sense measures that communities can take to reduce the negative effects of heat islands, such as replacing conventional black asphalt road surfaces with the new pigmentable bitumen that gives lighter colors.\n\nAsphalt made with vegetable oil based binders was patented by Colas SA in France in 2004.\n\nA number of homeowners seeking an environmentally friendly alternative to asphalt for paving have experimented with waste vegetable oil as a binder for driveways and parking areas in single-family applications. The earliest known test occurred in 2002 in Ohio, where the homeowner combined waste vegetable oil with dry aggregate to create a low-cost and less polluting paving material for his 200-foot driveway. After five years, he reports the driveway is performing as well or better than petroleum-based materials.\n\nShell Oil Company paved two public roads in Norway in 2007 with vegetable-oil-based asphalt. Results of this study are still premature.\n\nHALIK Asphalts LTD from Israel has been experimenting with recycled and secondary road building since 2003. The company is using various wastes such as vegetable fats & oils, wax and thermoplastic elastomers to build and repair roads. The results reported are so far satisfying.\n\nOn October 6, 2010, a bicycle path in Des Moines, Iowa, was paved with bio-oil based asphalt through a partnership between Iowa State University, the City of Des Moines, and Avello Bioenergy Inc. Research is being conducted on the asphalt mixture, derived from plants and trees to replace petroleum-based mixes. \nBioasphalt is a registered trademark of Avello Bioenergy Inc.\n\nDr. Elham H. Fini, at North Carolina A&T University, has been spearheading research that has successfully produced bio asphalt from swine manure.\n\nSince November 2014 the Dutch Wageningen University & Research centre is running a pilot in the Dutch province of Zeeland with bioasphalt in which the binder of bitumen was substituted by lignin. \n\n"}
{"id": "4644847", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4644847", "title": "Bruce Ackerman", "text": "Bruce Ackerman\n\nBruce Arnold Ackerman (born August 19, 1943) is an American constitutional law scholar. He is a Sterling Professor at Yale Law School.\n\nIn 2010, he was named by Foreign Policy magazine to its list of top global thinkers.\n\nAckerman graduated from the Bronx High School of Science, received a Bachelor of Arts degree from Harvard University in 1964 and Bachelor of Laws degree from Yale Law School in 1967. He clerked for U.S Court of Appeals Judge Henry J. Friendly from 1967 to 1968, and then for U.S. Supreme Court Justice John Marshall Harlan II from 1968 to 1969.\n\nAckerman joined the faculty of University of Pennsylvania in 1969. He was a Professor at Yale University from 1974 to 1982 and at Columbia University from 1982 to 1987. Since 1987 Ackerman has been the Sterling Professor of Law and Political Science at Yale. He teaches classes at Yale on the concepts of justice and on his theories of constitutional transformation (i.e., the Constitution of the Founders was transformed by the Civil War/Reconstruction and the New Deal). His wife, Susan Rose-Ackerman, is also a professor at Yale Law School who teaches classes on administrative law. Their son, John M. Ackerman, is also an academic who lives and works in Mexico. Their daughter, Sybil Ackerman-Munson is an environmentalist in Portland, Oregon. He was elected a Fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences in 1986. He is also a Commander of the Order of Merit of the French Republic.\n\nAckerman is listed as counsel in U.S. Army Captain Nathan Michael Smith’s lawsuit against President Barack Obama. The lawsuit asserts five counts against the President: that Operation Inherent Resolve violates the War Powers Resolution, that the Constitution's Take Care Clause requires President Obama to publish a sustained legal justification of his actions, that the Authorization for Use of Military Force Against Terrorists does not authorize the operation against ISIS, that the Iraq Resolution does not authorize the operation in Iraq, and that the Commander in Chief clause does not allow President Obama to authorize the operation. Captain Smith’s attorneys allege he has standing to sue because he will be personally liable for any damages he inflicts in an illegal war. The White House responded that the lawsuit raises \"legitimate questions\". After the district court dismissed the lawsuit as a political question, Ackerman appealed.\n\nAckerman currently serves on the Advisory Council of Represent.Us, a nonpartisan anti-corruption organization.\n\nIn her recent book on Hans Kelsen, Sandrine Baume identified Bruce Ackerman as a leading critic of the \"compatibility of judicial review with the very principles of democracy,\" in contrast to writers like John Hart Ely and Ronald Dworkin. That reading of Ackerman fails to account for Ackerman's many arguments for judicial review in a democratic constitution, such as his \"Storrs Lecture\", when he noted that judicial review \"is part of a larger theme that distinguishes the American Constitution from other, less durable, frameworks for liberal democracy.\" As one of three principles of the economy of virtue, Ackerman sees a constitutional design for judicial review \"that gives judges special incentives to uphold the integrity of earlier constitutional solutions against the pulling and hauling of normal politics.\"\n\nAckerman has refined his approach but still asserts, \"I refuse to join in the general retreat from judicial review that characterizes the contemporary work of many liberal constitutionalists.\"\n\nHe is the author of fifteen books and more than eighty articles. His interests cover constitutional theory, political philosophy, comparative law and politics, law and economics, American constitutional history, the environment, and social justice.\n\nHis works include:\n\n\"We the People: Foundations\" is best known for its forceful argument that the \"switch in time,\" whereby a particular member of the U.S. Supreme Court changed his judicial philosophy to one that permitted much more of the New Deal legislation in response to the so-called court-packing plan, is an example of political determination of constitutional meaning. Ackerman delivered the 2006 Oliver Wendell Holmes Lectures at the Harvard Law School.\n\n\"The Stakeholder Society\" served as a basis for the introduction of Child Trust Funds in the United Kingdom.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2407835", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2407835", "title": "Bullet voting", "text": "Bullet voting\n\nBullet voting or single-shot voting is a tactic in which the voter only selects one candidate, despite the option to indicate a preference for other candidates. They might do this either because it is easier than evaluating all the candidates, or (depending on the electoral system in use) as a form of tactical voting.\n\nIf enough voters \"bullet vote\", almost any electoral system functions like a plurality voting system. This is generally considered a poor result, as many electoral systems are intended as reforms or improvements that avoid or minimize some argued disadvantages of plurality (aka first-past-the-post voting). However, if voters bullet vote as a conscious strategy to express their meta-preference that candidates with strong support are preferable to \"compromise\" candidates with broad support, it may not be a problem.\n\nThis tactic is possible in any electoral system that does not require ranking all candidates. In practice, this is the majority of electoral systems as actually implemented (as opposed to in theory), since to reject ballots that do not rank all candidates risk an excessive number of spoiled ballots. However, it is mainly an issue in electoral systems that reward this tactic—primarily approval voting, and to a lesser extent range voting—and in those that do not significantly penalize it—primarily instant-runoff voting and a non-standard form of Borda count.\n\nCandidates may seek to encourage bullet voting in certain situations. One example is where there is a Bloc voting election for two seats of the same office, and there are several candidates (say A, B, and C). Voters in such a situation typically have two votes. Candidate A encourages his voters to vote only for him and not use their second vote. If the second vote is cast for B or C, it helps A's opponents. The situation is most pronounced where A is of one party and B and C are of another party. If voters from B and C's party vote for them, while A's partisans cast one vote for A and split their second vote between B and C, A is significantly disadvantaged.\n\n"}
{"id": "49375661", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49375661", "title": "California Water Plan", "text": "California Water Plan\n\nThe California Water Plan (Water Plan) is the State of California’s long-term strategic plan for managing and developing water resources throughout the state. The Water Plan is mandated by California Water Code Sections 10004–10013, and the California Department of Water Resources (DWR) is required to update the plan every five years. Although the Water Plan does not create mandates, propose specific projects, or authorize funding, Water Code Section 10005 defines the plan and its updates as “the master plan which guides the orderly and coordinated control, protection, conservation, development, management and efficient utilization of the water resources of the state.” Eleven updates to the plan have been prepared since 1957.\n\nThe development of water plans in California date back to the 19th century. Since then, they have taken several different formats and titles. The first plan was put together in 1873. It covered ideas for water distribution in the state. In 1919, a report, titled “Irrigation of Twelve Million Acres in the Valley of California,” provided the first comprehensive plan for water management. It is often referred to as the “Marshall Plan,” after its author, Col. Robert Bradford Marshall. In the decades following the release of that report, many water plans were issued as DWR bulletins (formal publications that include approved, official information to the governor, legislature, other government agencies, as well as the public).\n\nThe initial Water Plan (known as Bulletin 3) was released in 1957 under the direction of DWR’s first director, Harvey Oren Banks (March 29, 1910 – September 22, 1996). A civil engineer, he was appointed State Engineer of California in 1955. A year later he was placed in charge of DWR. The Water Plan was intended for “the control, protection, conservation, distribution, and utilization of the waters of California, to meet present and future needs for all beneficial uses and purposes in all areas of the state to the maximum feasible extent.” Gov. Pat Brown would later say it was to “correct an accident of people and geography.”\n\nThat first Water Plan, in 1957, and several updates that followed were, for the most part, technical documents focused on water supply development. The plans were gradually expanded to reflect the growing conflicts over California’s limited water resources.\n\nIn March 1966, \"Implementation of the California Water Plan\" was released as Bulletin 160. All subsequent updates to the Water Plan have been issued under that bulletin number.\nA new approach was established to produce the 1993 update. DWR worked with an advisory committee composed of a diverse group of stakeholders with the aim of making the Water Plan an all the “more technically accurate and politically balanced document.” Beginning with the 1998 update, the Water Plan has moved beyond providing pure information to evaluating options for addressing future water shortages, even as extensive and early public input has been sought for each update. The approach involves dialogue and exchanges among Water Plan teams, committees, stakeholders, and the public. The sessions provide multiple opportunities for review by different audiences and feedback from a variety of perspectives. This transparent, collaborative, consensus-seeking process has been used by other agencies and states as a model for policy-planning efforts.\n\n\"California Water Plan Update 2013\" (Update 2013) had the added element of meshing with Gov. Edmund G. Brown Jr.’s California Water Action Plan. The governor’s five-year plan, released in January 2014, outlines actions intended to bring reliability, restoration, and resilience to California’s water resources. It takes into account an anticipated population increase from the current 38 million, to an estimated 50 million by 2049.\n\nAccording to Chris Austin, of Maven’s Notebook, an independent and comprehensive source of California water news and information, “three related themes distinguish California Water Plan Update 2013.” DWR and other State agencies consider the three themes critical to securing California’s water future.\n\n\nThe Santa Margarita Conjunctive Use Project in San Diego County is cited as an example of the three themes in action. This conjunctive use project is designed to provide for enhanced recharge of the groundwater basin beneath the Marine Corps Base Camp Pendleton in northern San Diego County. It also includes a seawater intrusion barrier that uses recycled water, a distribution system, and advanced water treatment facilities. The project will provide a new water supply of about per year for Camp Pendleton and Fallbrook Public Utilities District, and will resolve a long-standing water rights dispute between Fallbrook and the federal government.\n\nUpdate 2013 includes the Highlights booklet, three primary volumes, and two reference volumes.\n\nHighlights: This booklet provides an overview of the first three volumes.\n\nVolume 1 — The Strategic Plan: This volume looks at the current water issues in the state. It also provides a look at potential problems in the future, along with possible solutions. The Strategic Plan is presented in eight chapters, including “California Water Today” and “Roadmap for Action.”\n\nVolume 2 — Regional Reports: California is divided into 10 hydrologic regions; this volume has a chapter on each one. There are also chapters on two overlay areas (the Sacramento-San Joaquin Delta and Mountain Counties) that don’t qualify as hydrologic regions, but deserve attention because of their contributions and importance to California’s water systems.\n\nVolume 3 — Resource Management Strategies: A comprehensive set of 30 resource management strategies makes up this volume. Each one discusses a technique, program, or policy that helps local agencies and governments manage their water. The strategies are divided into seven categories: Reduce Water Demand, Improve Flood Management, Improve Operational efficiency and Transfers, Increase Water Supply, Improve Water Quality, Practice Resource Stewardship, and People and Water.\n\nVolume 4 — Reference Guide: This guide provides detailed reference material related to information presented in the first three volumes.\n\nVolume 5 — Technical Guide: Organized and formatted as a Web portal, the Technical Guide documents the assumptions, data, analytical tools, and methods used to prepare Update 2013.\n\nThe next California Water Plan update is scheduled to be published in 2018. That version is expected to emphasize sustainability of water supplies, especially through the use of integrated water management and integrated regional water management. Other key themes will promote strengthening flood and river management. Update 2018 will also include, for the first time, a five-year State investment strategy and companion finance plan. It will be the first Water Plan update to “identify specific outcomes and metrics to track performance, prioritize near-term State actions and investments, recommend financing methods having more stable revenues, and inform water deliberations and decisions as they unfold.”\n\n"}
{"id": "45049223", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45049223", "title": "Centre for the Study of Governance Innovation", "text": "Centre for the Study of Governance Innovation\n\nThe Centre for the Study of Governance Innovation (GovInn) is a research centre of the University of Pretoria. \nIt was launched at the International Studies Association annual conference on 6 April 2013 and then in South Africa on 20 May 2013 by the University of Pretoria, with a keynote lecture by political scientist and activist Susan George.\n\nGovInn is the first research institution in Africa dedicated entirely to governance innovation and its goal is to promote research that helps rethink conventional wisdom in the field of development and governance studies, with projects dedicated to the governance of the commons, Beyond GDP economic governance, and new forms of bottom-up regionalism.\nIt also specializes in resource governance, through international projects such as the Land Matrix, the global dataset on land grab and other forms of investment in land, agriculture and common resources \n\nThe centre is directed by political economist Lorenzo Fioramonti and its international advisory board is made up of scholars and experts in international development, including Susan George, Simon Zadek, Luk Van Langenhove, Lydia Powell, Jan Aart Scholte and Lew Daly. \nGovInn hosts the Governance Innovation Week, an annual gathering of leaders and innovators from all over the world. Keynote speakers at the Week have included Susan George, Johan Galtung, Robert Costanza, Raj Patel, Michel Bauwens and Simon Zadek. GovInn has long standing partnerships with research institutions such as CIRAD and the United Nations University, through its Institute for comparative regionalism UNU-CRIS. GovInn also houses the first and only Jean Monnet Programme chair in Africa and the UNESCO-UNU Chair in Regional Integration Migration and Free Movement of People.\n\nGovInn is based at the University of Pretoria, in South Africa.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2821092", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2821092", "title": "Chinese Immigration Act of 1885", "text": "Chinese Immigration Act of 1885\n\nFollowing the recommendations published in the \"Royal Commission on Chinese Immigration\" in 1885, the Chinese Immigration Act of 1885 (the \"Act\") was a Canadian Act of Parliament that placed a head tax of $50 on all Chinese immigrants coming to Canada. Assented on 20 July 1885, the intention of the \"Chinese Immigration Act\" was stated explicitly in its heading, reading \"An Act to restrict and regulate Chinese immigration into Canada.\"\n\nIn the early 1880s during the building of the Canadian Pacific Railway, as many as 17,000 Chinese immigrants came to Canada to work as labourers. This was as a result of the cheap labour demand in the West. Major labour shortages in British Columbia and surrounding areas threatened the economic viability of the emerging Canada. Thus, as a way to bring the West economic efficiency, Chinese immigration was encouraged in the early 1880s. Furthermore, the Canadian Pacific Railway (CPR) was formed to physically unite Canada and required cheap labour to complete its construction. Founded in 1881, the CPR was completed on November 7, 1885 - \"six years ahead of schedule - when the last spike was driven at Craigellachie, B.C.\" After its completion, the demand for Chinese immigration dropped dramatically and became dispensable.\n\nDissatisfaction with Chinese immigration grew and in 1885 a Royal Commission was appointed to obtain proof that restricting Chinese immigration would be in the best interests of the country. Prime Minister John A. Macdonald originally refused to introduce prohibitive measures, but eventually yielded and appointed the commission. The commission was entitled \"Royal Commission on Chinese Immigration\" in 1885 and interviewed hundreds of people with the goal of understanding the majority's view on Chinese immigration.\n\nThe Commission was led by Joseph-Adolphe Chapleau and John Hamilton Gray who gathered testimony regarding Chinese immigration at public hearings across British Columbia and compared these testimonies to those gathered on the Pacific Coast of the United States. The testimonies of 51 people were submitted. Only two Chinese witnesses were consulted: two officials from the Chinese Consulate in San Francisco. Multiple viewpoints were reported, including some in favour of Chinese immigration on an economic efficiency scale. But, the overall consensus on the state of Chinese immigration was a vocalized demand for its restriction. Claims against the Chinese were slanderous and were found to have little evidence behind them. Despite this, the Commission recommended a moderate legislation against Chinese immigration and proposed a $10 head tax.\n\nThe \"Chinese Immigration Act\" of 1885 was enacted as a result of the findings of the Commission. The \"Act\" imposed a $50 head tax on Chinese immigrants, with the exceptions of diplomats, government representatives, tourists, merchants, \"men of science\", and students. The imposed duty of $50 was a significant increase from the $10 duty recommended by the Royal Commission.\n\nThis piece of legislation became the first in Canada's history to exclude immigrants on the basis of their ethnic origin. It also defined \"Chinese Immigrant\" in section 1 as \"The expression 'Chinese Immigrant' means any person of Chinese origin entering Canada and not entitled to the privilege of exemption provided for by section four of this Act.\" Furthermore, vessels that were transporting Chinese immigrants were permitted to only carry one Chinese immigrant per 50 tonnes of the ship's weight. This law also prevented any Chinese immigrants who suffered from a contagious disease such as leprosy or any Chinese woman who was known to have been a prostitute. Therefore, the Act limited the number of Chinese immigrants so much so that legally, a 300-ton ship could only carry six Chinese immigrants to Canada. Furthermore, despite mass fervour towards the banning of Chinese immigrants in 1885, due to Canada being a colony under Britain, the passing of Chinese exclusion would not be possible. This was because the banning of Chinese immigrants did not fall with British interests at the time.\n\nThe \"Act\" was amended in 1887 to allow Chinese women who were married to non-Chinese men to enter Canada, as well as Chinese passing through Canada via railway. An additional amendment in 1892 required Chinese residents of Canada who wished to temporarily leave the country to register with an immigration official before departure.\n\nIn 1900, the head tax was raised to $100 by Prime Minister Wilfrid Laurier, due to a still growing influx of Chinese immigrants. In 1903, this was further raised to $500. Companies in short supply of cheap labour would often advance this money to bring Chinese immigrants to Canada.\n\nThe \"Act\" was eventually superseded in 1923 by the \"Chinese Immigration Act\" of 1923, also known as the \"Chinese Exclusion Act\" (not to be confused with the Chinese Exclusion Act of 1882), which banned Chinese immigration entirely.\n\nIn the 1980s, voices for redress emerged in the Chinese-Canadian community. Organizations that strove for promoting the rights of all individuals, particularly those of Chinese Canadians, and encouraging their full and equal participation in Canadian society.\n\nIn the 1980s, the Chinese Canadian National Council (CCNC) began to collect head tax certificates and in 1984 \"the CCNC presented the government with a list of names of 2,300 surviving Chinese who had each paid a head tax.\" A subsequent survey by CCNC \"found that of the 867 respondents who completed the questionnaire, 46 percent were in favor of an official apology and a symbolic redress to the individual victims, while 38 percent also supported some form of community redress.\" In 1990, the CCNC successfully lobbied for political endorsement for a redress. By 1993, a redress proposal was submitted to the representatives of five groups including Chinese Canadians. At this time, the redress only offered an \"omnibus apology.\" The offer was rejected by the Chinese Canadian groups and no resolutions were made that federal term.\n\nAs a result of the \"Act\" and its imposed Head Tax, a redress, with apologies and compensations, took place only officially in 2006. After the election of the minority Conservative government in 2006, Stephen Harper affirmed his position on Chinese immigration: \"Chinese Canadians are making an extraordinary impact on the building of our country. They've also made a significant historical contribution despite many obstacles. That's why, as I said during the election campaign, the Chinese Canadian community deserves an apology for the head tax and appropriate acknowledgement and redress.\"\n\nEffective August 29, 2006, Canada's redress program combined \"payments to individual head tax payers, (or, if the payer is deceased, to their spouse) with funding for educative and commemorative programs.\"\n\nThe \"Chinese Immigration Act\" of 1885 carried great weight as a result of it being the first of its kind in Canadians history and subsequently laying down the foundations for future further exclusionary policies and acts. The act laid down the legal framework for Head Taxes which was later refined even more harshly.\n\nThe aim of establishing a \"white\" society for Canada, as Kenneth Munro explains,\"such discrimination flew in the face of that crucial premise of Canadian nationhood, namely, respect for diversity of culture and traditions.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "25151566", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25151566", "title": "Citizenship of the United States", "text": "Citizenship of the United States\n\nCitizenship of the United States is a status that entails specific rights, duties and benefits. Citizenship is understood as a \"right to have rights\" since it serves as a foundation of fundamental rights derived from and protected by the Constitution and laws of the United States, such as the right to freedom of expression, vote, due process, live and work in the United States, and to receive federal assistance. Certain Rights are so fundamental that they are guaranteed to all persons, not just citizens. Those rights include the rights guaranteed by the First 8 Amendments that pertain to individuals. However, not all U.S. citizens, such as those living in Puerto Rico, have the right to vote in federal elections.\n\nThere are two primary sources of citizenship: birthright citizenship, in which a person is presumed to be a citizen if he or she was born within the territorial limits of the United States, or—providing certain other requirements are met—born abroad to a U.S. citizen parent, and naturalization, a process in which an eligible legal immigrant applies for citizenship and is accepted. These two pathways to citizenship are specified in the Citizenship Clause of the Constitution's 1868 Fourteenth Amendment which reads:\n\n\"National citizenship\" signifies membership in the country as a whole; \"state citizenship\", in contrast, signifies a relation between a person and a particular state and has application generally limited to domestic matters. State citizenship may affect (1) tax decisions and (2) eligibility for some state-provided benefits such as higher education and (3) eligibility for state political posts such as U.S. Senator.\n\nIn Article One of the Constitution, the power to establish a \"uniform rule of naturalization\" is granted explicitly to Congress.\n\nU.S. law permits multiple citizenship. A citizen of another country naturalized as a U.S. citizen may retain their previous citizenship, though they must renounce allegiance to the other country. A U.S. citizen retains U.S. citizenship when becoming the citizen of another country, should that country's laws allow it. U.S. citizenship can be renounced by Americans who also hold another citizenship \"via\" a formal procedure at a U.S. Embassy, and it can also be restored.\n\n\n\n\nCivic participation is not required in the United States. There is no requirement to attend town meetings, belong to a political party, or vote in elections. However, a benefit of naturalization is the ability to \"participate fully in the civic life of the country\". There is disagreement about whether popular lack of involvement in politics is helpful or harmful.\n\nVanderbilt professor Dana D. Nelson suggests that most Americans merely vote for president every four years, and sees this pattern as undemocratic. In her book \"Bad for Democracy\", Nelson argues that declining citizen participation in politics is unhealthy for long term prospects for democracy.\n\nHowever, writers such as Robert D. Kaplan in \"The Atlantic\" see benefits to non-involvement; he wrote \"the very indifference of most people allows for a calm and healthy political climate\". Kaplan elaborated: \"Apathy, after all, often means that the political situation is healthy enough to be ignored. The last thing America needs is more voters—particularly badly educated and alienated ones—with a passion for politics.\" He argued that civic participation, in itself, is not always a sufficient condition to bring good outcomes, and pointed to authoritarian societies such as Singapore which prospered because it had \"relative safety from corruption, from breach of contract, from property expropriation, and from bureaucratic inefficiency\".\n\nA person who is considered a citizen by more than one nation has \"dual citizenship\". It is possible for a United States citizen to have dual citizenship; this can be achieved in various ways, such as by birth in the United States to a parent who is a citizen of a foreign country (or in certain circumstances the foreign nationality may be transmitted even by a grandparent) by birth in another country to a parent(s) who is/are a United States citizen/s, or by having parents who are citizens of different countries. Anyone who becomes a naturalized U.S. citizen is required to renounce any prior \"allegiance\" to other countries during the naturalization ceremony; however, this renunciation of allegiance renunciation of citizenship to those countries.\n\nThe earliest recorded instances of dual citizenship began before the French Revolution when the British captured American ships and forced them back to Europe. The British Crown considered subjects from the United States as British by birth and forced them to fight in the Napoleonic wars.\n\nUnder certain circumstances there are relevant distinctions between dual citizens who hold a \"substantial contact\" with a country, for example by holding a passport or by residing in the country for a certain period of time, and those who do not. For example, under the Heroes Earnings Assistance and Relief Tax (HEART) Act of 2008, U.S. citizens in general are subject to an expatriation tax if they give up U.S. citizenship, but there are exceptions (specifically ) for those who are either under age 18½ upon giving up U.S. citizenship and have lived in the U.S. for less than ten years in their lives, or who are dual citizens by birth residing in their other country of citizenship at the time of giving up U.S. citizenship and have lived in the U.S. for less than ten out of the past fifteen years. Similarly, the United States considers holders of a foreign passport to have a substantial contact with the country that issued the passport, which may preclude security clearance.\n\nU.S. citizens are required by federal law to identify themselves with a U.S. passport, not with any other foreign passport, when entering or leaving the United States. The Supreme Court case of \"Afroyim v. Rusk\" declared that a U.S. citizen did not lose his citizenship by voting in an election in a foreign country, or by acquiring foreign citizenship, if they did not intend to lose U.S. citizenship. U.S. citizens who have dual citizenship do not lose their United States citizenship unless they renounce it officially.\n\nCitizenship began in colonial times as an active relation between men working cooperatively to solve municipal problems and participating actively in democratic decision-making, such as in New England town hall meetings. Men met regularly to discuss local affairs and make decisions. These town meetings were described as the \"earliest form of American democracy\" which was vital since citizen participation in public affairs helped keep democracy \"sturdy\", according to Alexis de Tocqueville in 1835. A variety of forces changed this relation during the nation's history. Citizenship became less defined by participation in politics and more defined as a legal relation with accompanying rights and privileges. While the realm of civic participation in the public sphere has shrunk, the citizenship franchise has been expanded to include not just propertied white adult men but black men and adult women.\n\nEarlier on, U.S. citizenship was not given to people of Indian or East Asian descent. A. K. Mozumdar was the first person born in the Indian sub-continent to attain U.S. citizenship. A few years earlier, as a result of the 1898 United States v. Wong Kim Ark Supreme Court decision, ethnic Chinese born in the United States became citizens. During World War II, due to Japan's heavy involvement as an aggressor, it was decided to restrict many Japanese citizens from applying for U.S. citizenship, while Chinese citizens encountered no trouble, because of China's alliance with the United States.\n\nThe Equal Nationality Act of 1934 was an American law which allowed foreign-born children of American mothers and alien fathers who had entered America before age 18 and lived in America for five years to apply for American citizenship for the first time. It also made the naturalization process quicker for American women's alien husbands. This law equalized expatriation, immigration, naturalization, and repatriation between women and men. However, it was not applied retroactively, and was modified by later laws, such as the Nationality Act of 1940.\n\nU.S. citizenship is usually acquired by birth when a child is born in the territory of the United States. In addition to U.S. states, this includes the District of Columbia, Guam, Puerto Rico, the Northern Mariana Islands and the U.S. Virgin Islands. Citizenship, however, was not specified in the original Constitution. In 1868, the Fourteenth Amendment specifically defined persons who were either born or naturalized in the United States and subject to its jurisdiction as citizens. All babies born in the United States—except those born to enemy aliens in wartime or the children of foreign diplomats—enjoy U.S. citizenship under the Supreme Court's long-standing interpretation of the Fourteenth Amendment. The amendment states: \"All persons born or naturalized in the United States, and subject to the jurisdiction thereof, are citizens of the United States and of the State wherein they reside.\" There remains dispute as to who is \"subject to the jurisdiction\" of the United States at birth.\n\nBy acts of Congress, every person born in Puerto Rico, the U.S. Virgin Islands, Guam, and the Northern Mariana Islands is a United States citizen by birth. Also, every person born in the former Panama Canal Zone whose father or mother (or both) are or were a citizen is a United States citizen by birth.\n\nRegardless of where they are born, children of U.S. citizens are U.S. citizens in most cases. Children born outside the United States with at least one U.S. citizen parent usually have birthright citizenship by parentage.\n\nA child of unknown parentage found in the US while under the age of 5 is considered a US citizen until proven,before reaching the age of 22, to have not been born in the US.\n\nWhile persons born in the United States are considered to be citizens and can have passports, children under age eighteen are legally considered to be minors and cannot vote or hold office. Upon the event of their eighteenth birthday, they are considered full citizens but there is no ceremony acknowledging this relation or any correspondence between the new citizen and the government to this effect. Citizenship is assumed to exist, and the relation is assumed to remain viable until death or until it is renounced or dissolved by some other legal process. Secondary schools teach the basics of citizenship and create \"informed and responsible citizens\" who are \"skilled in the arts of effective deliberation and action\".\n\nAmericans who live in foreign countries and become members of other governments have, in some instances, been stripped of citizenship, although there have been court cases where decisions regarding citizenship have been reversed.\n\nActs of Congress provide for acquisition of citizenship by persons born abroad.\n\nThe agency in charge of admitting new citizens is the United States Citizenship and Immigration Services, commonly abbreviated as USCIS. It is a bureau of the Department of Homeland Security. It offers web-based services. The agency depends on application fees for revenue; in 2009, with a struggling economy, applications were down sharply, and consequently there was much less revenue to upgrade and streamline services. There was speculation that if the administration of president Barack Obama passed immigration reform measures, then the agency could face a \"welcome but overwhelming surge of Americans-in-waiting\" and longer processing times for citizenship applications. The USCIS has made efforts to digitize records. A USCIS website says the \"U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) is committed to offering the best possible service to you, our customer\" and which says \"With our focus on customer service, we offer you a variety of services both before and after you file your case.\" The website allowed applicants to estimate the length of time required to process specific types of cases, to check application status, and to access a customer guide. The USCIS processes cases in the order they're received.\n\nPeople applying to become citizens must satisfy certain requirements. For example, there have been requirements that applicants have been permanent residents for five years (three if married to a U.S. citizen), be of \"good moral character\" (meaning no felony convictions), be of \"sound mind\" in the judgment of immigration officials, have knowledge of the Constitution, and be able to speak and understand English unless they are elderly or disabled. Applicants must also pass a simple citizenship test. Up until recently, a test published by the Immigration and Naturalization Service asked questions such as \"How many stars are there in our flag?\" and \"What is the Constitution?\" and \"Who is the president of the United States today?\" At one point, the Government Printing Office sold flashcards for $8.50 to help test takers prepare for the test. In 2006, the government replaced the former trivia test with a ten-question oral test designed to \"shun simple historical facts about America that can be recounted in a few words, for more explanation about the principles of American democracy, such as freedom\". One reviewer described the new citizenship test as \"thoughtful\". While some have criticized the new version of the test, officials counter that the new test is a \"teachable moment\" without making it conceptually more difficult, since the list of possible questions and answers, as before, will be publicly available. Six correct answers constitutes a passing grade. The new test probes for signs that immigrants \"understand and share American values\". A unique way to become a permanent resident is to apply to the US government DV lottery. This program is a drawing for foreigners to apply for a drawing to become a permanent resident.\n\n\nAccording to a senior fellow at the Migration Policy Institute, \"citizenship is a very, very valuable commodity\". However, one study suggested legal residents eligible for citizenship, but who don't apply, tend to have low incomes (41 percent), do not speak English well (60 percent), or have low levels of education (25 percent). There is strong demand for citizenship based on the number of applications filed. From 1920 to 1940, the number of immigrants to the United States who became citizens numbered about 200,000 each year; there was a spike after World War II, and then the level reduced to about 150,000 per year until resuming to the 200,000 level beginning about 1980. In the mid-1990s to 2009, the levels rose to about 500,000 per year with considerable variation. In 1996, more than one million people became citizens through naturalization. In 1997, there were 1.41 million applications filed; in 2006, 1.38 million. The number of naturalized citizens in the United States rose from 6.5 million in the mid-1990s to 11 million in 2002. By 2003, the pool of immigrants eligible to become naturalized citizens was 8 million, and of these, 2.7 million lived in California. In 2003, the number of new citizens from naturalization was 463,204. In 2007, the number was 702,589. In 2007, 1.38 million people applied for citizenship creating a backlog. In 2008, applications decreased to 525,786.\n\nNaturalization fees were $60 in 1989; $90 in 1991; $95 in 1994; $225 in 1999; $260 in 2002; $320 in 2003; $330 in 2005. In 2007 application fees were increased from $330 to $595 and an additional $80 computerized fingerprinting fee was added. The biometrics fee was increased to $85 in 2010. On December 23, 2016, the application fees were increased again from $595 to $640. The high fees have been criticized as putting up one more wall to citizenship. Increases in fees for citizenship have drawn criticism. Doris Meissner, a senior fellow at the Migration Policy Institute and former Immigration and Naturalization Service Commissioner, doubted that fee increases deter citizenship-seekers. In 2009, the number of immigrants applying for citizenship plunged 62 percent; reasons cited were the slowing economy and the cost of naturalization.\n\nThe citizenship process has been described as a ritual that is meaningful for many immigrants. Many new citizens are sworn in during Independence Day ceremonies. Most citizenship ceremonies take place at offices of the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services. However, one swearing-in ceremony was held at Arlington National Cemetery in Virginia in 2008. The judge who chose this venue explained: \"I did it to honor our country's warriors and to give the new citizens a sense for what makes this country great.\" According to federal law, citizenship applicants who are also changing their names must appear before a federal judge.\n\nThe title of \"Honorary Citizen of the United States\" has been granted eight times by an act of Congress or by a proclamation issued by the President pursuant to authorization granted by Congress. The eight individuals are Sir Winston Churchill, Raoul Wallenberg, William Penn, Hannah Callowhill Penn, Mother Teresa, the Marquis de Lafayette, Casimir Pulaski, and Bernardo de Gálvez y Madrid, Viscount of Galveston and Count of Gálvez.\n\nSometimes, the government awarded non-citizen immigrants who died fighting for American forces with the posthumous title of U.S. citizen, but this is not considered honorary citizenship. In June 2003, Congress approved legislation to help families of fallen non-citizen soldiers.\n\nThere is a sense in which corporations can be considered \"citizens\". Since \"corporations\" are considered persons in the eyes of the law, it is possible to think of corporations as being like citizens. For example, the airline Virgin America asked the United States Department of Transportation to be treated as an American air carrier. The advantage of \"citizenship\" is having the protection and support of the United States government when jockeying with foreign governments for access to air routes and overseas airports. Alaska Airlines, a competitor of Virgin America, asked for a review of the situation; according to U.S. law, \"foreign ownership in a U.S. air carrier is limited to 25% of the voting interest in the carrier,\" but executives at Virgin America insisted the airline met this requirement.\n\nFor the purposes of diversity jurisdiction in the United States civil procedure, corporate citizenship is determined by the principal place of business of the corporation. There is some degree of disagreement among legal authorities as to how exactly this may be determined.\n\nAnother sense of \"corporate citizenship\" is a way to show support for causes such as social issues and the environment and, indirectly, gain a kind of \"reputational advantage\".\n\nThe Immigration and Nationality Act of 1952 (INA) made a minor distinction between U.S. citizenship and U.S. nationality. Citizenship comprises a larger set of privileges and rights for those persons that are U.S. citizens which is not afforded to individuals that are only U.S. nationals by virtue of their rights under the INA. It is well-established that all U.S. citizens are U.S. nationals but not all U.S. nationals are U.S. citizens.\n\nThe Naturalization Act of 1790 () provided the first rules to be followed by the United States in the granting of national citizenship after the ratification of the Constitution. A number of other Acts and statutes followed the Act of 1790 that expanded or addressed specific situations but it was not until the Immigration and Nationality Act of 1952 (), codified under Title 8 of the United States Code (), that the variety of statutes governing citizenship law were organized within one single body of text. The Immigration and Nationality Act of 1952 set forth the legal requirements for the acquisition of American nationality. The Fourteenth Amendment (1868) addressed citizenship rights. The United States nationality law, despite its \"nationality\" title, comprises the statues that embody the law regarding both American citizenship and American nationality.\n\nFor example, as specified in , a person whose only connection to the U.S. is through birth in an outlying possession (which, as of March 2015, was defined under as American Samoa and Swains Island), or through descent from a person so born, acquires only U.S. nationality but not U.S. citizenship. Such person is said to be a non-citizen national of the United States.\n\nAmerican Samoans continue to be U.S. nationals but not U.S. citizens. People born in American Samoa receive passports declaring the holder is only a U.S. national, not a U.S. citizen. For an America Samoan to become a U.S. citizen, he or she must relocate to another part of the United States, initiate the naturalization process, pay the $680 fee (as of February 11, 2014), pass a good moral character assessment, be fingerprinted and pass an English/civics examination.\n\nIn addition, residents of the Northern Mariana Islands who automatically gained U.S. citizenship in 1986 as a result of the Covenant between the Northern Mariana Islands and the U.S. could elect to become U.S. noncitizen nationals within 6 months of the implementation of the Covenant or within 6 months of turning 18.\n\nThe nationality status of a person born in an unincorporated U.S. Minor Outlying Island is not specifically mentioned by law, but under international law and Supreme Court dicta, they are also regarded as non-citizen nationals of the United States.\n\nNon-citizen nationals of the United States may reside and work in the United States without restrictions, and may apply for U.S. citizenship under the same rules as permanent U.S. residents. Both of these groups are not allowed to vote in federal or state elections, although there is no constitutional prohibition against their doing so. Every national of the United States statutorily transmits nationality to children born outside the United States.\n\nThe U.S. passport issued to noncitizen nationals of the United States contains the endorsement code 9 which states: \"The bearer is a United States national and not a United States citizen\" on the annotations page.\n\nThe issue of citizenship naturalization is a highly contentious matter in US politics, particularly regarding illegal immigrants. Candidates in the 2008 presidential election, such as Rudolph Giuliani, tried to \"carve out a middle ground\" on the issue of illegal immigration, but rivals such as John McCain advocated legislation requiring illegal immigrants to first leave the country before being eligible to apply as citizens. Some measures to require proof of citizenship upon registering to vote have met with controversy.\n\nIssues such as whether to include questions about current citizenship status in census questions have been debated in the Senate. Generally, there tends to be controversy when citizenship affects political issues. For example, issues such as asking questions about citizenship on the United States Census tend to cause controversy. Census data affects state electoral clout; it also affects budgetary allocations. Including non-citizens in Census counts also shifts political power to states that have large numbers of non-citizens due to the fact that reapportionment of congressional seats is based on Census data.\n\nThere have been controversies based on speculation about which way newly naturalized citizens are likely to vote. Since immigrants from many countries have been presumed to vote Democratic if naturalized, there have been efforts by Democratic administrations to streamline citizenship applications before elections to increase turnout; Republicans, in contrast, have exerted pressure to slow down the process. In 1997, there were efforts to strip the citizenship of 5,000 newly approved immigrants who, it was thought, had been \"wrongly naturalized\"; a legal effort to do this presented enormous challenges. An examination by the Immigration and Naturalization Service of 1.1 million people who were granted citizenship from September 1995 to September 1996 found 4,946 cases in which a criminal arrest should have disqualified an applicant or in which an applicant lied about his or her criminal history. Before the 2008 election, there was controversy about the speed of the USCIS in processing applications; one report suggested that the agency would complete 930,000 applications in time for the newly processed citizens to vote in the November 2008 election. Foreign-born naturalized citizens tend to vote at the same rates as natives. For example, in the state of New Jersey in the 2008 election, the foreign born represented 20.1% of the state's population of 8,754,560; of these, 636,000 were eighteen or older and hence eligible to vote; of eligible voters, 396,000 actually voted, which was about 62%. So foreign-born citizens vote in roughly the same proportion (62%) as native citizens (67%).\n\nThere has been controversy about the agency in charge of citizenship. The USCIS has been criticized as being a \"notoriously surly, inattentive bureaucracy\" with long backlogs in which \"would-be citizens spent years waiting for paperwork\". Rules made by Congress and the federal government regarding citizenship are highly technical and often confusing, and the agency is forced to cope with enforcement within a complex regulatory milieu. There have been instances in which applicants for citizenship have been deported on technicalities. One Pennsylvania doctor and his wife, both from the Philippines, who applied for citizenship, and one Mr. Darnell from Canada who was married to an American with two children from this marriage, ran afoul of legal technicalities and faced deportation. \"The New York Times\" reported that \"Mr. Darnell discovered that a 10-year-old conviction for domestic violence involving a former girlfriend, even though it had been reduced to a misdemeanor and erased from his public record, made him ineligible to become a citizen—or even to continue living in the United States.\" Overworked federal examiners under pressure to make \"quick decisions\" as well as \"weed out security risks\" have been described as preferring \"to err on the side of rejection\". In 2000, 399,670 applications were denied (about of all applications); in 2007, 89,683 applications for naturalization were denied, about 12% of those presented.\n\nGenerally, eligibility for citizenship is denied for the millions of people living in the United States illegally, although from time to time, there have been amnesties. In 2006, there were mass protests numbering hundreds of thousands of people throughout the US demanding U.S. citizenship for illegal immigrants. Many carried banners which read \"We Have A Dream Too\". One estimate is that there are 12 million illegal immigrants in the U.S. in 2006. There are many American high school students with citizenship issues. In 2008, it was estimated that there were 65,000 illegal immigrant students. The number was less clear for post-secondary education. A 1982 Supreme Court decision entitled illegal immigrants to free education from kindergarten through high school. Undocumented immigrants who get arrested face difficulties in the courtroom as they have no constitutional right to challenge the outcome of their deportation hearings. In 2009, writer Tom Barry of the \"Boston Review\" criticized the crackdown against illegal immigrants since it \"flooded the federal courts with nonviolent offenders, besieged poor communities, and dramatically increased the U.S. prison population, while doing little to solve the problem itself\". Barry criticized the United States' high incarceration rate as being \"fives times greater than the average rate in the rest of the world\". Virginia Senator Jim Webb agreed that \"we are doing something dramatically wrong in our criminal justice system\".\n\nU.S. citizens can relinquish their citizenship, which involves abandoning the right to reside in the United States and all the other rights and responsibilities of citizenship. \"Relinquishment\" is the legal term covering all seven different potentially-expatriating acts (ways of giving up citizenship) under . \"Renunciation\" refers to two of those acts: swearing an oath of renunciation before a U.S. diplomatic or consular officer abroad, or before an official designated by the Attorney General within the United States during a state of war. Out of an estimated three to six million U.S. citizens residing abroad, between five and six thousand relinquished citizenship each year in 2015 and 2016. U.S. nationality law treats people who performs potentially-expatriating acts with intent to give up U.S. citizenship as ceasing to be U.S. citizens from the moment of the act, but U.S. tax law since 2004 treats such individuals as though they remain U.S. citizens until they notify the State Department and apply for a Certificate of Loss of Nationality (CLN).\n\nRenunciation requires an oath to be sworn before a State Department officer and thus involves in-person attendance at an embassy or consulate, but applicants for CLNs on the basis of other potentially-expatriating acts must attend an in-person interview as well. During the interview, a State Department official assesses whether the person acted voluntarily, intended to abandon all rights of U.S. citizenship, and understands the consequences of their actions. The State Department strongly recommends that Americans intending to relinquish citizenship have another citizenship, but will permit Americans to make themselves stateless if they understand the consequences. There is a $2,350 administrative fee for the process. In addition, an expatriation tax is imposed on some individuals relinquishing citizenship, but payment of the tax is not a legal prerequisite for relinquishing citizenship; rather, the tax and its associated forms are due on the normal tax due date of the year following relinquishment of citizenship. State Department officials do not seek to obtain any tax information from the interviewee, and instruct the interviewee to contact the IRS directly with any questions about taxes.\n\n"}
{"id": "13431152", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13431152", "title": "Crane v. Commissioner", "text": "Crane v. Commissioner\n\nCrane v. Commissioner, 331 U.S. 1 (1947), was a case heard before the United States Supreme Court concerning the value, for tax purposes, of inherited property with a nonrecourse mortgage encumbering it. According to Boris I. Bittker, \"Crane\" \"laid the foundation stone of most tax shelters.\"\n\nChief Justice Fred M. Vinson wrote the opinion.\n\nPetitioner, Crane, was the sole beneficiary and executrix of her husband's estate. She inherited an apartment building and land, which secured a principal debt of $255,000 and interest in default of $7,042. The property was for estate tax purposes at a value equal to the mortgage encumbrance. Six years later, with foreclosure imminent, the property was sold for $3,000 subject to the mortgage and Crane incurred $500 in expenses to complete the sale. Crane reported $2,500.00 of taxable gain from the sale of the apartment.\n\nDid the original basis in the hands of Mrs. Crane include the full value of the property inherited, undiminished by the loan debt?\n\nShould the amount of the debt assumed by the purchaser of the apartment building have been included in Mrs. Crane's calculation of the amount realized on the sale?\n\nCrane argued that the \"property\" she acquired upon her husband's death was simply the equity in the land and building, which was the excess of the value of the land and building over the then-existing mortgage (i.e. the equity was zero based on the facts). As a result, she argued that the amount she realized on the sale of the building was her net cash received: $2,500.\n\nThe Commissioner of the IRS claimed that the property inherited by Crane was the building and land itself, not merely the equity in the building and land. This position had the merit of comporting with the facts at hand: prior to selling the property, Mrs. Crane had been allowed depreciation deductions in excess of $25,000 on the building. Correspondingly, the Commissioner argued that Crane, through the sale of the building and land, received an amount equal to the net of the cash received in addition to the amount of debt assumed by the purchaser.\n\nThe Court first sided with the Commissioner, agreeing with its construction of the relevant statutory provision that addresses the basis of \"property\" inherited. The Court found no basis to think \"equity\" was a synonym for \"property.\" In addition, the Court was troubled by the administrative complications that would be caused by replacing \"property\" with \"equity\" when determining depreciation, and by turning over administrative rules that had existed for some time.\n\nSecond, the Court determined that the amount Mrs. Crane realized from the sale of the \"property\" should be driven by the conclusion on the first issue. The Court sided with cases repudiating the claim that there must be an actual receipt of money or other property for a taxable gain to result from a transaction. Finally, the Court determined that a mortgagor who transfers a property subject to the mortgage benefits as if the purchaser had paid the mortgage on the property.\n\n\"We are ... concerned with the reality that an owner of property, mortgaged at a figure less than that at which the property will sell, must and will treat the conditions of the mortgage exactly as if they were his personal obligations. If he transfers subject to the mortgage, the benefit to him is as real and substantial as if the mortgage were discharged, or as if a personal debt in an equal amount had been assumed by another.\"\n\nThis case supports the doctrine of U.S. income tax law that a seller of property subject to a nonrecourse debt (as opposed to a recourse debt where the seller may remain liable for any unsatisfied balance remaining after the transfer) realizes an amount that includes the debt assumed by the purchaser. This is an important concept because a large percentage of real property is held subject to a mortgage or other debt and, therefore, the debt must be dealt with as a part of the sale of such property. As a result, when property encumbered by debt is sold, the tax consequences of the passing of the debt have a significant effect on the overall tax consequences of the sale. For example, in this case, a taxpayer who sold an apartment building for $3,000 was forced to recognize taxable income of over $24,000. Of course, the case also had the unintended collateral effect of legitimizing the idea that a taxpayer can purchase depreciable property with nonrecourse debt, a purchase the risk of which is largely borne by the lender, and (possibly) of realizing the interim tax benefit associated with increased depreciation and amortization deductions.\n\nIt should be noted, as stated in the quoted text above, that the result in Crane is specifically limited to situations where the property mortgage was less than the value of the property mortgaged. See footnotes 37 and 42. The reasoning cited, that the taxpayer will treat the property as his own in order to protect his equity investment, has been called the \"Crane Economic Benefit Rule.\" That reasoning was turned on its head 36 years later in the case \"Commissioner v. Tufts\", 461 U.S. 300 (1983), which addressed the situation that Crane had left unresolved.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "987490", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=987490", "title": "Crash bar", "text": "Crash bar\n\nCrash bar (also known as a panic exit device, panic bar, or push bar) is a type of door opening mechanism which allows users to open a door by pushing a bar. While originally conceived as a way to prevent crowd crushing in an emergency, crash bars are now used as the primary door opening mechanism in many commercial buildings.\n\nThe device consists of a spring-loaded metal bar which is fixed horizontally to a door that swings in the direction of an exit. When the bar is depressed, it activates a mechanism which unlatches the door, allowing occupants to quickly leave the building.\n\nModern fire standards often mandate that doors be fitted with crash bars in commercial and other occupancies where mass evacuation may be slowed by other types of door openers.\n\nThey are sometimes intended solely for emergency use and may be fitted with alarms. However, in many buildings the crash bar functions as the primary mechanism for opening a door in normal circumstances as well. In some places, they are even used when not required by code because they are quicker and easier for users compared with a knob or lever handle.\n\nFollowing the events of the Victoria Hall disaster in Sunderland, England in 1883 in which 183 children died because a door had been bolted at the bottom of a stairwell, the British government began legal moves to enforce minimum standards for building safety. This slowly led to the legal requirement that venues must have a minimum number of outward opening doors as well as locks which could be opened from the inside. Motivated by the Sunderland disaster, Robert Alexander Briggs (1868–1963) invented the panic bolt which was granted a UK patent on 13 August 1892.\n\nHowever these moves were not globally copied. For example, in the United States, 605 people died in the Iroquois Theatre fire in Chicago in December 1903 because iron gates blocked exits. Five years later 174 people in Ohio died in the Collinwood school fire, which led to a national outcry in the U.S. for greater fire safety in buildings.\n\nBy the end of the 20th century, most countries had building codes (or regulations) which require all public buildings have a minimum number of fire and emergency exits. Crash bars are fitted to these types of doors because they are proven to save lives in the event of human stampedes. Panic can often occur during mass building evacuations caused by fires or explosions.\n\nIn the event emergency exits are required, the crash bar works efficiently to allow people to pass through security doors without a reduction in speed. A crash bar's fast-acting mechanism reduces the risk that a rushing crowd might suddenly become a logjam at the exits. Such a human stampede situation, which has many historical precedents, can cause falls, crushing, and other injury because the rear of a crowd has no idea that the people at the front of a crowd have come across a door.\n\nCrash bars are typically found on doors which are required emergency exits serving a particular type or quantity of occupants. Common locations include doors which provide egress from assembly areas, doors which serve many occupants, or doors serving hazardous areas. For buildings subject to the International Building Code, or a locally adopted variation, they are required for certain healthcare, education, or assembly spaces, generally related to the number of occupants exiting through a given door.\n\nIn some applications, such as storefront entrances, panic bars may be dogged during business hours. Dogging is a common feature on panic bars in which the bar is retracted with a key—freeing the door to swing without latching. This allows customers to apply force to any portion of the door, not just the bar, in order to open it.\n\nDogging is distinct from simple unlocking, which permits the user to open the door from both ends but still requires performing an action to release the latches. However, in applications where the exterior side contains an immovable dummy lever, it is usually impossible to unlock the crash bar without also dogging it.\n\nDogging should be avoided in high wind areas where the door is susceptible to blowing open.\n\nIn the European Union, panic bars are governed by the standard \"EN 1125\", \"Panic exit devices operated by a horizontal bar\". As with other EN family standards, the English language version is produced by the British Standards Institution and utilizes the call sign BS EN 1125. Panic bars are required to conform to this standard in order to carry CE marking and thus be sold in the European Economic Area.\n\nIn 2008, the standard was updated to include an alpha-numeric labeling scheme. In this system, products are tested to various benchmarks and assigned a letter or number accordingly. Products must achieve minimum quality scores in order to receive general CE approval. The 9 rating categories are:\nEN 1125 is one of two standards which govern exit devices in the EU. The other standard, EN 179, governs door handles, push pads, and other exit devices with emergency release functionality.\n\nHowever, EN 179 devices shall only be used at locations where people \"are familiar with the emergency exit and its hardware and therefore a panic situation is unlikely to appear\". Examples of places where EN 179 hardware may be used in place of EN 1125 panic bars include small apartment buildings and offices.\n\nThe first panic bar, made by Von Duprin, was available by 1908 in many models and configurations.\n\nIn the US, building exit requirements are generally controlled by model codes such as the International Building Code and/or the NFPA Life Safety Code. Adoption of regulations varies by location and may occur at the city, county, or state level.\n\nModel codes are usually supplemented with amendments adopted locally. Additional requirements may be imposed on a site from an Authority Having Jurisdiction such as a local fire marshal. Factors considered when mandating exit devices include the number of occupants who would need to leave in an emergency, the availability of other nearby exits, and proximity to any hazards equipment or chemicals.\n\nIn Europe, it is notable that most panic bars are of the cross bar type, which are called Type A in the EN 1125 standard. This contrasts strongly with North American architectural design, which years ago switched to using predominantly touch bars (EN 1125 Type B) in new construction.\n\nIn Europe, the use of panic bars is generally confined to code required applications. On the other hand, in US and Canadian commercial building design panic bars are frequently used even when not required by code. This is because bars are seen as a simpler opening mechanism for users than a knob or lever handle. While the public generally prefers automatic door opening solutions to both these options, automatic doors can be costly to install and maintain.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21351321", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21351321", "title": "Criminal law", "text": "Criminal law\n\nCriminal law is the body of law that relates to crime. It proscribes conduct perceived as threatening, harmful, or otherwise endangering to the property, health, safety, and moral welfare of people inclusive of one's self. Most criminal law is established by statute, which is to say that the laws are enacted by a legislature. Criminal law includes the punishment and rehabilitation of people who violate such laws. Criminal law varies according to jurisdiction, and differs from civil law, where emphasis is more on dispute resolution and victim compensation than on punishment or rehabilitation. Criminal procedure is a formalized official activity that authenticates the fact of commission of a crime and authorizes punitive or rehabilitative treatment of the offender. \n\nThe first civilizations generally did not distinguish between civil law and criminal law. The first written codes of law were designed by the Sumerians. Around 2100–2050 BC Ur-Nammu, the Neo-Sumerian king of Ur, enacted the oldest written legal code whose text has been discovered: the \"Code of Ur-Nammu\" although an earlier code of Urukagina of Lagash ( 2380–2360 BC ) is also known to have existed. Another important early code was the Code Hammurabi, which formed the core of Babylonian law. Only fragments of the early criminal laws of Ancient Greece have survived, e.g. those of Solon and Draco.\n\nIn Roman law, Gaius's \"Commentaries on the Twelve Tables\" also conflated the civil and criminal aspects, treating theft (\"furtum\") as a tort. Assault and violent robbery were analogized to trespass as to property. Breach of such laws created an obligation of law or \"vinculum juris\" discharged by payment of monetary compensation or damages. The criminal law of imperial Rome is collected in Books 47–48 of the Digest. After the revival of Roman law in the 12th century, sixth-century Roman classifications and jurisprudence provided the foundations of the distinction between criminal and civil law in European law from then until the present time.\n\nThe first signs of the modern distinction between crimes and civil matters emerged during the Norman Invasion of England. The special notion of criminal penalty, at least concerning Europe, arose in Spanish Late Scholasticism (see Alfonso de Castro), when the theological notion of God's penalty (poena aeterna) that was inflicted solely for a guilty mind, became transfused into canon law first and, finally, to secular criminal law. The development of the state dispensing justice in a court clearly emerged in the eighteenth century when European countries began maintaining police services. From this point, criminal law had formalized the mechanisms for enforcement, which allowed for its development as a discernible entity.\n\nCriminal law is distinctive for the uniquely serious potential consequences or sanctions for failure to abide by its rules. Every crime is composed of criminal elements. Capital punishment may be imposed in some jurisdictions for the most serious crimes. Physical or corporal punishment may be imposed such as whipping or caning, although these punishments are prohibited in much of the world. Individuals may be incarcerated in prison or jail in a variety of conditions depending on the jurisdiction. Confinement may be solitary. Length of incarceration may vary from a day to life. Government supervision may be imposed, including house arrest, and convicts may be required to conform to particularized guidelines as part of a parole or probation regimen. Fines also may be imposed, seizing money or property from a person convicted of a crime.\n\nFive objectives are widely accepted for enforcement of the criminal law by punishments: retribution, deterrence, incapacitation, rehabilitation and restoration. Jurisdictions differ on the value to be placed on each.\n\nMany laws are enforced by threat of criminal punishment, and the range of the punishment varies with the jurisdiction. The scope of criminal law is too vast to catalog intelligently. Nevertheless, the following are some of the more typical aspects of criminal law.\n\nThe criminal law generally prohibits undesirable \"acts\". Thus, proof of a crime requires proof of some act. Scholars label this the requirement of an actus reus or \"guilty act\". Some crimes – particularly modern regulatory offenses – require no more, and they are known as strict liability offenses (E.g. Under the \"Road traffic Act 1988\" it is a strict liability offence to drive a vehicle with an alcohol concentration above the prescribed limit). Nevertheless, because of the potentially severe consequences of criminal conviction, judges at common law also sought proof of an \"intent\" to do some bad thing, the mens rea or \"guilty mind\". As to crimes of which both \"actus reus\" and \"mens rea\" are requirements, judges have concluded that the elements must be present at precisely the same moment and it is not enough that they occurred sequentially at different times.\n\n\"Actus reus\" is Latin for \"guilty act\" and is the physical element of committing a crime. It may be accomplished by an action, by threat of action, or exceptionally, by an omission to act, which is a legal duty to act. For example, the act of \"A\" striking \"B\" might suffice, or a parent's failure to give food to a young child also may provide the actus reus for a crime.\n\nWhere the actus reus is a \"failure\" to act, there must be a \"duty of care\". A duty can arise through contract, a voluntary undertaking, a blood relation with whom one lives, and occasionally through one's official position. Duty also can arise from one's own creation of a dangerous situation. On the other hand, it was held in the U.K. that switching off the life support of someone in a persistent vegetative state is an omission to act and not criminal. Since discontinuation of power is not a voluntary act, not grossly negligent, and is in the patient's best interests, no crime takes place. In this case it was held that since a PVS patient could not give or withhold consent to medical treatment, it was for the doctors to decide whether treatment was in the patient's best interest. It was reasonable for them to conclude that treatment was not in the patient's best interest, and should therefore be stopped, when there was no prospect of improvement. It was never lawful to take active steps to cause or accelerate death, although in certain circumstances it was lawful to withhold life sustaining treatment, including feeding, without which the patient would die.\n\nAn actus reus may be nullified by an absence of causation. For example, a crime involves harm to a person, the person's action must be the \"but for\" cause and \"proximate cause\" of the harm. If more than one cause exists (e.g. harm comes at the hands of more than one culprit) the act must have \"more than a slight or trifling link\" to the harm.\n\nCausation is not broken simply because a victim is particularly vulnerable. This is known as the thin skull rule. However, it may be broken by an intervening act (\"novus actus interveniens\") of a third party, the victim's own conduct, or another unpredictable event. A mistake in medical treatment typically will not sever the chain, unless the mistakes are in themselves \"so potent in causing death.\"\n\n\"Mens rea\" is another Latin phrase, meaning \"guilty mind\". This is the mental element of the crime. A guilty mind means an intention to commit some wrongful act. Intention under criminal law is separate from a person's motive (although motive does not exist in Scots law).\n\nA lower threshold of \"mens rea\" is satisfied when a defendant recognizes an act is dangerous but decides to commit it anyway. This is recklessness. It is the mental state of mind of the person at the time the actus reus was committed. For instance, if \"C\" tears a gas meter from a wall to get the money inside, and knows this will let flammable gas escape into a neighbour's house, he could be liable for poisoning. Courts often consider whether the actor did recognize the danger, or alternatively ought to have recognized a risk. Of course, a requirement only that one \"ought\" to have recognized a danger (though he did not) is tantamount to erasing \"intent\" as a requirement. In this way, the importance of mens rea has been reduced in some areas of the criminal law but is obviously still an important part in the criminal system.\n\nWrongfulness of intent also may vary the seriousness of an offense and possibly reduce the punishment but this is not always the case. A killing committed with specific intent to kill or with conscious recognition that death or serious bodily harm will result, would be murder, whereas a killing effected by reckless acts lacking such a consciousness could be manslaughter. On the other hand, it matters not who is actually harmed through a defendant's actions. The doctrine of transferred malice means, for instance, that if a man intends to strike a person with his belt, but the belt bounces off and hits another, mens rea is transferred from the intended target to the person who actually was struck.[Note: The notion of transferred intent does not exist within Scots' Law. In Scotland, one would not be charged with assault due to transferred intent, but instead assault due to recklessness.] \n\nStrict liability can be described as criminal or civil liability notwithstanding the lack mens rea or intent by the defendant. Not all crimes require specific intent, and the threshold of culpability required may be reduced or demoted. For example, it might be sufficient to show that a defendant acted negligently, rather than intentionally or recklessly. In offenses of absolute liability, other than the prohibited act, it may not be necessary to show the act was intentional. Generally, crimes must include an intentional act, and \"intent\" is an element that must be proved in order to find a crime occurred. The idea of a \"strict liability crime\" is an oxymoron. The few exceptions are not truly crimes at all – but are administrative regulations and civil penalties created by statute, such as crimes against the traffic or highway code.\n\nA \"murder\", defined broadly, is an unlawful killing. Unlawful killing is probably the act most frequently targeted by the criminal law. In many jurisdictions, the crime of murder is divided into various gradations of severity, e.g., murder in the \"first degree\", based on \"intent\". \"Malice\" is a required element of murder. Manslaughter (Culpable Homicide in Scotland) is a lesser variety of killing committed in the absence of \"malice\", brought about by reasonable provocation, or diminished capacity. \"Involuntary\" manslaughter, where it is recognized, is a killing that lacks all but the most attenuated guilty intent, recklessness.\n\nSettled insanity is a possible defense.\n\nMany criminal codes protect the physical integrity of the body. The crime of battery is traditionally understood as an unlawful touching, although this does not include everyday knocks and jolts to which people silently consent as the result of presence in a crowd. Creating a fear of imminent battery is an assault, and also may give rise to criminal liability. Non-consensual intercourse, or rape, is a particularly egregious form of battery.\n\nProperty often is protected by the criminal law. Trespassing is unlawful entry onto the real property of another. Many criminal codes provide penalties for conversion, embezzlement, theft, all of which involve deprivations of the value of the property. Robbery is a theft by force. Fraud in the UK is a breach of the Fraud Act 2006 by false representation, by failure to disclose information or by abuse of position.\n\nSome criminal codes criminalize association with a criminal venture or involvement in criminality that does not actually come to fruition. Some examples are aiding, abetting, conspiracy, and attempt. However, in Scotland, the English concept of Aiding and Abetting is known as Art and Part Liability. See Glanville Williams, Textbook of Criminal Law, (London: Stevens & Sons, 1983); Glanville Williams, Criminal Law the General Part (London: Stevens & Sons, 1961).\n\nWhile crimes are typically broken into degrees or classes to punish appropriately, all offenses can be divided into 'mala in se' and 'mala prohibita' laws. Both are Latin legal terms, mala in se meaning crimes that are thought to be inherently evil or morally wrong, and thus will be widely regarded as crimes regardless of jurisdiction. Mala in se offenses are felonies, property crimes, immoral acts and corrupt acts by public officials. Mala prohibita, on the other hand, refers to offenses that do not have wrongfulness associated with them. Parking in a restricted area, driving the wrong way down a one-way street, jaywalking or unlicensed fishing are examples of acts that are prohibited by statute, but without which are not considered wrong. Mala prohibita statutes are usually imposed strictly, as there does not need to be mens rea component for punishment under those offenses, just the act itself. For this reason, it can be argued that offenses that are mala prohibita are not really crimes at all.\n\nPublic international law deals extensively and increasingly with criminal conduct that is heinous and ghastly enough to affect entire societies and regions. The formative source of modern international criminal law was the Nuremberg trials following the Second World War in which the leaders of Nazism were prosecuted for their part in genocide and atrocities across Europe. The Nuremberg trials marked the beginning of criminal fault for individuals, where individuals acting on behalf of a government can be tried for violations of international law without the benefit of sovereign immunity. In 1998 an International criminal court was established in the Rome Statute.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1732076", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1732076", "title": "Curley v. NAMBLA", "text": "Curley v. NAMBLA\n\nCurley v. NAMBLA was a wrongful death lawsuit filed in the United States District Court for the District of Massachusetts in 2000, by Barbara and Robert Curley against the North American Man/Boy Love Association (NAMBLA), saying the organization had incited the men who kidnapped and murdered their young son. They sought $200 million in damages.\n\nThe American Civil Liberties Union of Massachusetts (ACLU-M) represented NAMBLA because of the issue of censorship of unpopular speech about sexuality. It succeeded on getting the suit dismissed, based on the specific legal issue that NAMBLA is organized as an association, not a corporation. The Curleys continued their suit against individual members of NAMBLA and its steering committee members. They finally dropped the lawsuit in 2008 because the court ruled that their only witness to incitement was not competent to testify. Soon after his son's murder, Curley had campaigned for the state to pass a bill to re-establish use of the death penalty, but he changed his position and in 2007 opposed it.\n\nIn 1997, Barbara and Robert Curley's 10-year-old son Jeffrey was kidnapped, raped and murdered by two men, Salvatore Sicari, 21, and Charlie Jaynes, 22. Jeffrey was a latchkey child and knew Sicari from the neighborhood, as he lived only a block away. The two men befriended Jeffrey, taking him on car rides to diners. They offered to replace his recently stolen bicycle with a new one in exchange for sex. When Jeffrey refused, Jaynes killed him in the car's backseat. Sicari confessed to his part in the murder but insisted that Jaynes committed the murder. NAMBLA literature and a membership card was found in the backseat of the car and in Jaynes' apartment. Sicari was convicted of first-degree murder and Jaynes was convicted of second-degree murder and kidnapping.\n\nFollowing his son's murder, Robert Curley campaigned for Massachusetts to reinstate the death penalty, which had been ruled unconstitutional in 1975. A bill to do so failed on a tie vote in the Massachusetts House of Representatives shortly after his son's murder. He later changed his position and in 2007 opposed death penalty legislation.\n\nThe Curleys filed a civil suit against NAMBLA in 2000, seeking $200 million in damages. It charged that NAMBLA's \"adult-child sexual relationship\" propaganda, including Jaynes' viewing of the group's website, caused his violent predatory behavior and urge to have sex with and rape young male children. \n\nThe suit was based on the fact that the convicted murderer had NAMBLA materials and had been found to have visited the group's website. The ACLU said that the suit against NAMBLA highlighted censorship of unpopular speech about sexuality. According to Wendy Kaminer, a longtime ACLU executive, the case was based on \"widespread biases about a supposed link between homosexuality and pedophilia\"; in fact, studies have shown that children are more likely to be preyed upon by heterosexuals in their extended families. \n\nProving the incitement is difficult given the First Amendment to the U.S. Constitution standards that govern words in any medium. At the time the Internet was much less popular, so the point rested on the court's viewing the Internet as such a different media as to warrant a different legal standard. Despite the lawsuit's claims, the NAMBLA website displayed no erotica, nor conspiracies to rape or incitements to violence. \n\nIn \"Brandenburg v. Ohio\", , the US Supreme Court held that government cannot punish inflammatory speech unless it is directed to inciting and likely to incite imminent lawless action. In September 2001, the court declined the defense's request for summary judgment, because Brandenburg \"does not foreclose liability 'on any set of facts that might be shown'\" as to incitement just by NAMBLA's publications, meetings and website. But the court dismissed the suit based on the specific legal issue that NAMBLA is organized as an association, not a corporation.\n\nThe Curleys continued the suit as a wrongful death action against individual NAMBLA members and NAMBLA Steering Committee members. \n\nThe Curleys dropped the lawsuit in 2008. They had only one witness prepared to testify that NAMBLA somehow incited one of the convicted criminals in the murder of their son, and the judge ruled the witness was not competent to testify. Robert Curley said, \"That was the only link we were counting on ... When they ruled that out, that was the end of the line.\"\n\nThe publicity around this case contributed to the gay community's disassociation from NAMBLA and from any appearance of supporting pederasty (attraction to adolescents after youths enter puberty) and pedophilia (attraction to prepubescent children). This division was already present in NAMBLA, related to their public image and publication(s) content. \n\nNAMBLA had been the subject of several law enforcement sting operations and raids. It had also been accused of links in several high-profile child abduction cases, such as the 1979 Etan Patz case in New York City. In February 2017, Pedro Hernandez, a clerk in a local bodega in 1979, was convicted of the kidnapping and murder of Patz, based on confessions to police. He is said to have a low IQ and mental health issues.\n\nNAMBLA denied any connections to crimes, but their public image was already permanently damaged. The gay community cut all ties of support.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32923312", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32923312", "title": "Declaration of Principles on Equality", "text": "Declaration of Principles on Equality\n\nThe Declaration of Principles on Equality reflects a moral and professional consensus among human rights and equality experts done in December 2008. It contains 27 principles that establish a new paradigm on equality, drawing on established and emerging principles of international law. It has been described by the High Court of Delhi as reflecting the ‘current international understanding of Principles on Equality.’\n\nThe need to formulate general legal principles on equality was defined on the basis of (i) acknowledging the pervasiveness of discrimination and the weaknesses in the protection of the right to equality at both international and national levels, (ii) the absence of comprehensive equality legislation in many countries around the world and the recognition that such legislation is necessary to give effect to states’ obligations under international and regional human rights law; (iii) the disparities and inconsistencies in approaches to discrimination and equality in the different frameworks of the UN, EU, the Council of Europe, various national jurisdictions, etc. which meant that virtually none of the key concepts of equality law had universally accepted definitions; (iv) the fragmentation of the anti-discrimination struggle, whereby different status/identity groups are enmeshed in identity politics and are unable to follow a universal human rights approach to equality and develop solidarity with other disadvantaged groups.\n\nThe Principles on Equality were agreed by a group of experts in several stages of consultations. They were discussed at a conference entitled ‘Principles on Equality and the Development of Legal Standards on Equality’ organised by The Equal Rights Trust (ERT) on 3–5 April 2008 in London. Participants of different backgrounds, including academics, legal practitioners and human rights activists from all regions of the world took part in this event. Participants debated a version of the draft that had incorporated their comments on an earlier document. They subsequently contributed comments. A number of further experts participated in various stages of drafting and deliberation.\n\nERT launched the Declaration of Principles on Equality on 21 October 2008, in London. The document was signed initially by 128 experts from 44 countries, and subsequently by hundreds of others. It establishes, for the first time, general legal principles on equality as a basic human right. The Declaration contains 27 principles on which national equality legislation and policies should be based. The principles formulated and agreed by the experts through a two-year-long consultative process are based on concepts and jurisprudence developed in international, regional and national legal contexts. The Declaration is intended to assist efforts of legislators, the judiciary, civil society organisations and anyone else involved in combating discrimination and promoting equality, in particular through developing effective equality legislation and policies.\n\nThe legal basis of the 27 Principles is found (i) in the Charter of the United Nations which recognises the inherent dignity and worth and the equal and inalienable rights of all members of the human family as the foundation of freedom, justice and peace in the world; (ii) Article 1 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights proclaiming that all human beings are born free and equal in dignity and rights; and common Article 2 of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights and the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights; (iii) the recognition, in Article 26 of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, of the right to non-discrimination as an autonomous human right and the correlative obligation of States to realise this right; (iv) a number of provisions in international and regional treaties; (v) non-binding opinions, recommendations, and interpretations by organs of international and regional organisation including the Council of Europe; (vi) jurisprudence of international, regional and national courts related to equality.\n\nMarking a transition from identity politics to a unitary human rights framework on equality, \nthe Declaration provides guidance on some of the most complex and controversial issues that arise in any attempt to develop comprehensive equality legislation at the national level. For example, it defines the right to equality, equal treatment, and the right to non-discrimination, and gives a legal definition of discrimination, as well as of the most important types of discrimination (direct, indirect, harassment, discrimination by association and by perception); through these, it provides guidance on the question of how the right to non-discrimination relates to the right to equality. The Declaration also provides general principles on how to approach the question of the grounds on which discrimination must be prohibited: should the right to non-discrimination apply only to a closed list of grounds? Are new grounds emerging that should require equal pro-tection? Is there a hierarchy of the ground of discrimination, and what should be the approach to defining exceptions?\n\nHaving taken account of the existing notions of affirmative action, positive action, special measures and positive measures in various legal frameworks, the Declaration further formulates principles on which to base the law on positive action and positive duties. Positive action does not constitute discrimination as long as the difference in treatment is aimed at achieving full and effective equality and the means adopted are proportionate to that aim. Positive ac¬tion measures are not defined as an exception to the principle of equal treatment but as part of its implementation. States have a positive duty to promote equality.\n\nThe definition of the right to non-discrimination in Principle 4 as a free-standing right is meant in two senses: (i) in the sense that it is a separate right, which can be violated even if a related right is not: for example, a person’s right to non-discrimination in the enjoyment of the right to education may be violated, while no breach of her right to education has been found; this understanding is well established in the jurisprudence of the European Court of Human rights; (ii) in the sense of an autonomous right, not related to any other right set forth by law. In this second sense, the free-standing status of the right to non-discrimination means that this right does not depend on whether another legal right actually exists. This is the approach followed in defining discrimination in the European Union equality Directives, as well as in the national legislation of a number of the EU member states.\n\nThe Declaration further contains principles on equality related to: the relationship between discrimination and violence; the scope of application of the right to equality (“all areas of activity regulated by law”); the personal scope: who are the right-holders, e.g. whether legal persons can claim the right as well as individuals and groups; the definition of duty-bearers; the content of the duty to give effect to the right to equality; the obligations regarding multiple discrimination; the duty of accommodating difference (defining the concept of reasonable accommodation); the relationship between the right to equality and poverty; the specificity of equality legislation; the duty to ensure participation in developing law and policies implementing the right to equality; and the duty to provide education related to equality.\n\nAnother set of principles are related to enforcement of the right to equality and define access to justice in equality law; victimisation; standing rules; evidence and proof in adjudicating equality rights; remedies and sanctions; the role of specialised bodies; and the duty to gather and disseminate information including statistics as part of the enforcement of the right to equality. Finally, the Declaration contains principles prohibiting regressive interpretation and derogations from the right to equality.\n\nThe Declaration of Principles on Equality, as its title indicates, provides only the most general and abstract synthesis of legal standards on equality. Those who would be looking for more detailed guidance on specific issues would be disappointed. But the Declaration’s significance consists in the fact that it documents a degree of moral and professional consensus among global experts at the most fundamental level, reflecting both basic values shared by the signatories and a negotiated agreement on exactly how to express these values in the form and the language of universal legal principles. As an established common ground, the Declaration can therefore serve as the basis for further elaboration of specific legal standards related to equality issues.\n\nOn 25 November 2011, the Standing Committee of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe (PACE) adopted a Resolution and a Recommendation on “The Declaration of Principles on Equality and the Activities of the Council of Europe” at its meeting in Edinburgh, UK, welcoming and endorsing the Declaration.\n\nThe Resolution, for the adoption of which a simple majority was necessary, and the Recommendation, which required a qualified majority of two thirds, were voted on during the session of the Standing Committee under the UK Chairmanship of the Council of Europe in Edinburgh. The Standing Committee acts on behalf of PACE when the latter is not in session, and its Resolutions and Recommendations have identical legal status with those of the full assembly.\n\nIn the Resolution, the Parliamentary Assembly welcomes the Declaration of Principles on Equality and “calls on member states to take into account the principles contained in the Declaration when adopting equality and non-discrimination legislation and policies”.\n\nIn the Recommendation, which is addressed to the Committee of Ministers, the highest executive authority of the Council of Europe:\n\n“1. Referring to its Resolution on the Declaration of Principles on Equality and activities of the Council of Europe, the Parliamentary Assembly recommends that the Committee of Ministers:\n\n1.1. enhance efforts aimed at speeding up ratification of Protocol No. 12 to the European Convention on Human Rights (ETS No. 5) by the members states which have not yet done so;\n\n1.2. disseminate information on good practices in the implementation of policies aimed at combating discrimination and inequalities;\n\n1.3. ensure that the Declaration is taken into account in the work of the different Council of Europe bodies and expert groups dealing with the issues of equality and non-discrimination;\n\n1.4. promote the Declaration in its dealings with external actors, and in particular with policymakers from the Council of Europe member states;\n\n2. Moreover, recalling the necessity of harmonising the interpretation and implementation of the rights to equality and non-discrimination, the Assembly recommends that the Committee of Ministers:\n\n2.1. step up co-operation with the European Union on the consolidation of standards in the area of non-discrimination and promotion of equality;\n\n2.2. pursue co-operation with other international organisations, in particular the Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe (OSCE), the United Nations and its Committee on the Elimination of Racial Discrimination, with a view to achieving coherent interpretations of the principles of equality and non-discrimination and the implementation of common policies in the field of combating discrimination and inequalities.”\n\nThe Resolution and Recommendation were proposed by the Committee on Legal Affairs and Human Rights (CLAHR), whose member Boriss Cilevics (Latvia) was the Rapporteur on the matter. The position of the CLAHR, which was adopted in June 2011 in Oslo, was preceded by a hearing held in Paris on 8 March 2011, at which The Equal Rights Trust provided testimony. The Recommendation will now progress to the Committee of Ministers which should consider a response.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39475259", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39475259", "title": "Ecoweek", "text": "Ecoweek\n\nECOWEEK \"Εβδομάδα Οικολογίας\" (Greek) is a private non-profit, non-governmental international organization aiming towards the empowerment, networking, education and training of young professionals - architects, designers, engineers, landscape architects - towards sustainable urban and public interventions and facilitation of action through fieldwork, workshops, education and training and through cooperation with local authorities, organizations and leaders.\n\nECOWEEK mission is to raise environmental awareness and awareness on climate change and to promote the principles of sustainability.\n\nECOWEEK was initially established in Aegina, Greece in 2005. It was initially conceived as a community event - \"Ecological Week in Aegina\" - to raise environmental awareness of the local community of 14,000. At the time Aegina was challenged by unresolved waste management, illegal burning of waste, inexistant waste recycling program, water shortages, energy shortages, and a thriving and partially unregulated spec construction market for summer houses, which although contributed to the local economy, it put pressure in protected areas to be developed and constructed. Construction also contributed in increasing illegal disposal of construction waste in natural reserves, and the increase of the summer population thus bringing the capacity of the existing infrastructures of the island to its limits.\n\nEcological Week in Aegina was held in Aegina for 2 years. In 2007, responding to an increase demand for environmental awareness beyond Aegina, ECOWEEK co-organized activity throughout Greece, and initiated free-admission screenings of award-winning documentary on Climate Change by Davis Guggenheim \"An Inconvenient Truth\" with Al Gore in schools, the army, and public screenings in Athens, Thessaloniki, Patras, Lamia, Corfu, and Crete. Within this activity, in June 2007, ECOWEEK held a public free-admission keynote lecture and slide show on Climate Change by inviting Al Gore to the Athens Concert Hall. In 2007 ECOWEEK was also established in Jerusalem, Israel and in 2008 ECOWEEK initiated the first Ecological Week in Larnaka, Cyprus, in cooperation with the Municipality of Larnaka], involving schools, universities, professional organizations, and the general public.\n\nSince 2005, ECOWEEK developed its outreach activity towards raising awareness to a variety of population groups, age-groups and interests. For example, from children activity, cleaning of beaches, lottery of composters and solar chargers, to academic and colloquial lectures, site visits, design workshops, and film screenings.\nSince 2008, ECOWEEK activity focuses more on sustainable design and ecological building, social design,and placemaking. Its activity involved primarily one-week-long design workshops and international conferences for young and established professionals - primarily architects, designers, landscape architects and engineers. ECOWEEK has developed and expanded its activity through close collaboration with cultural institutions, such as the American Institute of Architects Continental Europe, the British Council, Goethe Institute, academic institutions, municipalities and governments. ECOWEEK has initiated and organized activities in Ag. Nikolaos (Crete), Athens, Azaryia (Bethany), Belgrade, Bucharest, Cairns, Copenhagen, Istanbul, Jerusalem, Kraków, London, Milano, Mumbai, Sarajevo, Tel Aviv, Thessaloniki, Tilburg, Prishtina, and Rome.\n\nIn 2017 ECOWEEK published its first book titled ECOWEEK Book#1: 50 Voices for Sustainability, featuring fifty articles by leading architects,designers, professionals, academics and environmentalists from around the world. Among them award-winning architects Kengo Kuma, BIG, MVRDV, Francoise-Helene Jourda, Diebedo Francis Kere, Michael Sorkin, Prof. David Orr and Antarctica explorer Robert Swan. The same year ECOWEEK also issued ECOWEEK: The Workshops a publication with a collection of ideas and projects from the ECOWEEK workshops (2009-2016).\n\nIn 1989 ECOWEEK co-founder architect Elias Messinas met the late Egyptian architect Hassan Fathy - author of Architecture for the Poor - in Cairo. In that meeting, Fathy conveyed to Messinas how problems in Egypt - among them housing for the poor - could be solved. Among others Fathy challenged Messinas when he emphasized the need for young professionals to be more aware of their own community and instead of imitating architecture in international magazines, to reach out, learn about and be creative while benefiting with their work their own community.\n\nInspired by Fathy, ECOWEEK workshops have gradually developed a more hands-on approach that links between acedemia and the community, and between professionals and students since 2010. Aiming to both empower and train young professionals to address urban public space, placemaking, urban communities through interventions in design and hands-on workshops in urban public context, ECOWEEK and its partners have developed a model of close collaboration with local authorities, local organizations and leaders. Through this collaboration, the ECOWEEK workshops are assigned projects that are real, support them with professional consultants and see that some of the projects are implemented. Students' ideas are heard and cities, neighborhoods and communities benefit from the innovative and creative ideas of students and the professional guidance of the workshop leaders. The ECOWEEK workshops have developed sustainable proposals for \"Copenhagen, Thessaloniki, Rome, Belgrade, Kraków, Jerusalem, and Azaryia.\n\nAiming to establish a permanent platform and not just one-week-long activity, ECOWEEK established the GREENHOUSE in 2011 in Athens, Greece. The GREENHOUSE is a platform for innovation and entrepreneurship for society and the environment, engaging young architects, designers, landscape architects and students in real design assignments for real non-profit organizations and local authorities. The GREENHOUSE teams, under the guidance of experienced professionals, have developed sustainable solutions for schools, community centers, welfare institutions and the urban public space in Athens and Thessaloniki in Greece and Holon, Bat Yam and Jaffa in Israel.\n"}
{"id": "32760378", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32760378", "title": "Edict of Toleration 1844", "text": "Edict of Toleration 1844\n\nThe Edict of Toleration took place during the process referred to as the Eastern Question in relations between European powers, Britain in particular, and the Ottoman Empire in its development at a time referred to as Tanzimat internally which included other initiatives like ending the Ottoman slave trade a few years later but overall as part of the Dissolution of the Ottoman Empire – a process that continued into the 1920s. It was largely a result of pressure from the British government on the Sublime Porte, Abdülmecid I of the Ottomans, urging to stop the persecutions of the Christians, and eventually had an effect on the persecutions of Jews, continuing effects such as the earlier Damascus affair. It is one of the edicts of toleration of history.\n\nTanzimat was an Ottoman reform process that sought equal protections under the law in Ottoman lands for all people; however, it did not address matters of religious freedom. A particular incident in 1843 with an Armenian Ottoman subject sparked an incident in August which gained international entanglements and then a Greek national in November, both of whom were put to death - the process of which became the Edict in March 1844. Reverend Edward Bickersteth referred to these developments in 1844 when he summarized diplomatic notes presented to the British Parliament noting \"The correspondence occupied a considerable part of the year—from Aug. 27, 1843, to April 19, 1844.\"\n\nIn February 1844 there is a question on the status of Jew apostates from Islam (who, it was claimed, must pass through being Christian on the way to Islam in the first place) and in March 21, 1844 appears (in translation):\n\nIt is the special and constant intention of His Highness the Sultan that his cordial relations with the High Powers be preserved, and that a perfect reciprocal friendship be maintained and increased.<br>\n\nAccording to Muslim Islamic scholar Cyril Glassé, death for Apostasy in Islam was \"not in practice enforced\" in later times in the Muslim world, and was \"completely abolished\" by \"a decree of the Ottoman government in 1260AH/1844AD.\" This short edict was advanced in the wider Ottoman Reform Edict of 1856.\n\nThe Edict was seen by some especially among the religious as a specific sign leading towards the fulfillment of prophecy.\n\nResearch conducted by Michael Sours into this subject and the records of the development of the Edict did not refer directly to the Jews but rather infers religious tolerance through ending executions for apostasy for Jews that seemed to convert making their social situation easier while actually keeping their personal and group identity in their Judaic religion. Jerusalem has had the largest Jewish population in Palestine in recent centuries since about 1844 and been majority Jewish since about 1852.\n\nThe Edict was first publicly commented upon by Reverend Edward Bickersteth in his publication, \"Practical Guide to the Prophecies\" in the 1844 edition. Adventist William Miller, and those that disagreed with him, though unaware of the Edict and the diplomacy around it, still looked to the fortunes of the Ottoman Empire even in the period. Miller pointed to the year because of the 2300 day prophecy of , relying on the Day-year principle. The 2300 days are understood to represent 2300 years stretching from 457 BC, the calculated starting date of the 70 weeks prophecy based on the 3rd decree found in Ezra, thus leading to 1843/4. Bickersteth acknowledged the same interpretation and added a second - - as a parallel to start the clock for understanding ; taking 390 years as a period for persecution of Christians in the End time. Bickersteth takes this persecution from the triumph of Ottoman rule of Constantinople in 1453, thus 1453+390 is 1843/4, directly before these events. Thus, independently of Miller, a number of Christian authors followed the significance of this declaration from Bickersteth including Alfred Edersheim, a Jewish convert to Christianity and a Biblical scholar, and Henry Grattan Guinness who broadened the themes of the understanding of the edict and its importance, and into the early 20th century with Worth Smith who mentioned it in his 1934 \"Miracle of the Ages\". Adventist mention of the Edict wasn't until 1917.\n\nThornton Chase, commonly recognized as the first convert to the Bahá'í Faith of Occidental background, noted the Edict in his publication \"The Bahai Revelation\" published in 1909. An Irish convert to the religion, George Townshend was the first broadly published to mention the Edict in Bahá'í literature in 1944 when he wrote:\n\nThe proclamation of His Faith was made in 1844, the year when the strict exclusion of the Jews from their own land enforced by the Muslims for some twelve centuries was at last relaxed by the Edict of Toleration and \"the times of the Gentiles\" were \"fulfilled.\" \n\nin the introduction to Shoghi Effendi's book, God Passes By, published in 1944. This was also centrally mentioned by William Sears in his book \"Thief in the Night\" originally published in 1961 and in its 17th edition circa 2012. Both Townshend and Sears had high offices in the religion as Hands of the Cause.\n\n"}
{"id": "56919510", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56919510", "title": "Employee’s Rights to Representation, Consultation and Collective Bargaining Ordinance", "text": "Employee’s Rights to Representation, Consultation and Collective Bargaining Ordinance\n\nThe Employee’s Rights to Representation, Consultation and Collective Bargaining Ordinance () is a repealed law of Hong Kong to provide for the rights of employees to representation, consultation and collective bargaining; and to provide for matters incidental thereto or connected therewith. It was introduced by trade unionist Lee Cheuk-yan in the colonial Legislative Council on the eve of the handover of Hong Kong in April 1997 but was soon repealed by the Provisional Legislative Council (PLC) in October 1997.\n\nThe bill was introduced by the pro-labour legislator Lee Cheuk-yan of the Hong Kong Confederation of Trade Unions (CTU). Under the bill, employees were given rights to representation and consultation through a trade union representative and to be covered by a collective agreement negotiated by a \"representative\" trade union. A trade union can also request employer recognition if its membership constitutes more than 15 per cent of the employees and represents more than 50 per cent of these employees. Further provisions included the establishment of collective bargaining and the imposition on employers of a duty to allow trade union representatives paid time-off for representation, consultation and collective bargaining activities. \n\nThe Labour Department, employers and the pro-Beijing Hong Kong Federation of Trade Unions (FTU) and the Federation of Hong Kong and Kowloon Labour Unions (FLU) opposed to the bill, mainly on the grounds that collective bargaining was not a tradition in Hong Kong where employers and labour enjoyed a \"harmonious relationship\".\n\nThe bill was passed by the Legislative Council on 20 June 1997 with the support of the pro-democracy camp in the council. It was gazetted on 30 June 1997, the last day of the colonial rule.\n\nAfter the transfer of the sovereignty of Hong Kong, the ordinance was first frozen by the Provisional Legislative Council (PLC) on 17 July 1997 on the basis of the review of the Labour Advisory Board (LAB), a tripartite body appointed by Chief Executive Tung Chee-hwa. A majority of the LAB members deemed it inappropriate to bring the collective bargaining into operation. It was frozen with three of the six other ordinances passed by the colonial Legislative Council as private members' bills also on the ground that these laws were hastily passed during the last week of the legislature in June 1997 without adequate discussion in bill committees and public consultation. \n\nOn 30 October, the ordinance was repealed by the Employment and Labour Relations (Miscellaneous Amendments) Ordinance, along with the Employment (Amendment) (No. 4) Ordinance 1997 passed by the Legislative Council on 29 June 1997.\n\nIt has become the subject of the labour issue in Hong Kong, in which the pro-democrats used it as an attack on the FTU which supported the repeal of the collective bargaining.\n\n"}
{"id": "12324333", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12324333", "title": "Employment protection legislation", "text": "Employment protection legislation\n\nEmployment protection legislation (EPL) includes all types of employment protection measures, whether grounded primarily in legislation, court rulings, collectively bargained conditions of employment, or customary practice. The term is common among circles of economists. Employment protection refers both to regulations concerning hiring (e.g. rules favouring disadvantaged groups, conditions for using temporary or fixed-term contracts, training requirements) and firing (e.g. redundancy procedures, mandated prenotification periods and severance payments, special requirements for collective dismissals and short-time work schemes).\n\nThere exist various institutional arrangements that can provide employment protection: the private market, labour legislation, collective bargaining arrangements and not the least, court interpretations of legislative and contractual provisions. Some forms of de facto regulations are likely to be adopted even in the absence of legislation, simply because both workers and firms derive advantages from long-term employment relations.\n\nAccording to Barone (2001) with the acronym EPL economists refer to the entire set of regulations that place some limits to the faculties of firms to hire and fire workers, even if they are not grounded primarily in the law, but originate from the collective bargaining of the social partners, or are a consequence of court rulings. In particular, provisions favouring the employment of disadvantaged groups in society, determining the conditions for the use of temporary or fixed-term contracts, or imposing training requirements on the firm, affect hiring policies, while redundancy procedures, mandated pre-notification periods and severance payments, special requirements for collective dismissals and short-time work schemes influence firing decisions. The nature of these restrictions on the firms’ freedom to adjust the labour input is quite similar in all OECD countries, but the actual procedural details and the overall degree of stringency implied by them varies considerably. These provisions are enforced through the worker’s right to appeal against his lay-off.\n\nSome aspects of these regulations, like the length of advance notices or the dimension of severance payments can be measured with precision. Other important features of EPL, like for example the willingness of labour courts to entertain appeals by fired workers, or how judges interpret the concept of “just cause” for termination, are much more difficult to quantify.\n\nOne of the more frequently used measures of the strictness of the EPL in each country and through different years is the so-called Employment Protection Legislation Index elaborated by the OECD. This index is calculated along 18 basic items, which can be classified in three main areas:\n\nThe 18 first-digit inputs are then expressed in either of the following forms:\n\nThen, these different scoring is converted into cardinal scores that are normalized to range from 0 to 6, with higher scores representing stricter regulation. Therefore, each of the different items is normalized according to weighted averages, thus constructing three sets of summary indicators that correspond to successively more aggregated measures of EPL strictness.\n\nThe last step of the procedure involves computing, for each country, an overall summary indicator based on the three subcomponents:\n\nThe summary measure for collective dismissals is attributed just 40% of the weight assigned to regular and temporary contracts. The rationale for this is that the collective dismissals indicator only reflects additional employment protection triggered by the collective nature of the dismissal. In most countries, these additional requirements are quite modest. Moreover, summary measures for collective dismissals are only available since the late 1990s. An alternative overall index, so-called Version 1, has been thus calculated as an unweighted average of the summary measures for regular and temporary contracts only. While more restrictive than the previous one (so-called Version 2), this alternative measure of the overall EPL strictness allows comparisons over a longer period of time (since the late 1980s compared with the late 1990s).\n\nSome economists have claimed that empirical evidence gives support to their theories, according to which EPL leads to a segmentation in the labour market between the so-called \"insiders\", the workers with a protected job, and the \"outsiders\", who are people that are either unemployed or employed with fixed-term, part-time or temporary contracts, or even in the black economy, and face big difficulties to find a job covered by EPL because of the firms’ reduced propensity to hire. This latter group is mainly constituted by youths, women, racial minorities and unskilled workers.\n\nWhether EPL has any effect on unemployment is an issue of contention between economists. On the one hand, assuming that the cyclical wage pattern is not affected by mandated firing costs, EPL reduces the propensity to hire by employers, since they fear that such decisions will be difficult to reverse in the future, in case of a recession. On the other hand, EPL also leads firms during downswings to keep more workers employed, than they would have otherwise done. Therefore, EPL reduces both job creation and job destruction, so that the net effects on average employment and unemployment are not identifiable a priori. What is instead agreed among economists, is that more stringent EPL lowers the fluctuations in the quantity of labour demanded over the business cycle, leading to smoother dynamic patterns of those aggregates.\n\nEconomists considering that EPL has no effect on unemployment include Blanchard and Portugal (2000). In their article they compare two opposite countries as regards their EPL stance: Portugal with one of the more strict legislations in the world and the US with one of the more flexible ones. In spite of these differences, both countries have similar unemployment rates which undermines the argument considering that EPL has any effect on unemployment. Instead, the authors claim that EPL does affect two other variables: job flows and unemployment duration. EPL would reduce job flows (from employment to unemployment: employers are less willing to fire, given that they must pay indemnizations to workers) therefore reducing unemployment but would increase unemployment duration, increasing the unemployment rate. These two effects would neutralize each other, explaining why overall, EPL has no effect on unemployment.\n\nNickell (1997) arrived to similar conclusions when stating that labor market rigidities that do not appear to have serious implications for average levels of unemployment included strict employment protection legislation and general legislation on labor market standards.\n\nAmong those that have found evidence suggesting that EPL increases unemployment are Lazear (1990). The author argued that mandated severance pay seemed to increase unemployment rates. His estimates suggested that an increase from zero to three months of severance pay would raise the unemployment rate by 5.5 percent in the United States.\n\nLazear (1990) once again argues he has evidence suggesting that EPL reduces the employment-to-population ratio. In his article he claims that the best estimates suggest that moving from no required severance pay to three months of required severance pay to employees with ten years of service would reduce the employment-population ratio by about one percent. In the United States that would mean over a million jobs. Lazear argues that the young could bear a disproportionate amount of the burden.\n\nTo the contrary, Bertola and Bentolila (1990) found evidence supporting the idea that firing costs have a larger effect on firms' propensity to fire than to hire, and therefore (slightly) increase average long-run employment.\n\nSeveral authors have found that EPL has significant effects on wages. As stated by Lazear (1990), in a perfect labor market, severance payments can have no real effects as they can be undone by a properly designed labor contract. Leonardi and Pica (2006) found evidence supporting this claim. They suggest that in the case of Italy an EPL reform in 1990 had as effect to reduce entry wages by 6 percent, implying that firms tend to transfer the increase in the cost of firing (due to EPL) onto workers. In fact, in their study they find that 25 percent of the firing cost was shifted onto lower wages in the case of Italy.\n\nIn principle the effects on profits are ambiguous. Because of EPL, firms engage themselves in labour hoarding practices, which lead them to employ a lower quantity of workers during upswings, while keeping inefficient levels of employment in downturns. For a given level of wages, this loss of productive efficiency would result in lower average profits. On the other hand, if firms\noperated in a context of efficiency wages, by inducing more stable relationships with the workers and reducing their job and income insecurity, EPL could allow them to pay lower wages, without reducing the effort provided by the labour force employed, with beneficial effects on profits.\n\nThere appears to be agreement among economists on the positive correlation between product market and employment regulation. Although employment protection legislation is only one aspect of the wide range of regulatory interventions in the labour market, Nicoletti et al. (2000) find evidence suggesting that, across countries, restrictive regulatory environments in the product market tend to be associated with restrictive employment protection policies. They claim that the indicators presented in their paper are closely related, with a statistical correlation of 0.73 (significant at the 1% level). In other words, according to these results, restrictive product market regulations are matched by analogous EPL restrictions to generate a tight overall regulatory environment for firms in their product market as well as in the allocation of labour inputs. The strong correlation between regulatory regimes in\nthe product market and EPL also suggests that their influence may have compounded effects on labour market outcomes, making regulatory reform in only one market less effective than simultaneous reform in the two markets.\n\nKugler and Pica (2003) find similar results in the case of the Italian economy. They present a matching model which illustrates how barriers to entry in the product market (product market regulation) mitigate the impact of labor market deregulation, (that is, mitigate the effects of a reduction in the strictness of EPL). In the author's opinion, this means that there are economic complementarities between labor and product market policies in their model, in the sense that the effectiveness of one policy depends on the implementation of the other policy. Thus, an important implication of their model is that labor market deregulation will be less effective in the presence of heavier regulations of entry. Similar results are obtained by Koeniger and Vindigni (2003).\n\nWhereas EPL may have not a significant effect on unemployment, strict EPL gives incentives to the firms to resort to other sources of flexibility like overtime, which, as shown by Abraham and Houseman (1994), indeed tends to be used much more in Continental European countries, where the variability of hours per worker is significantly higher than in the Anglo-Saxon labour markets.\n\nIn economic theory, several authors have argued that employment protection can be desirable when there are frictions in the working of markets. For example, Pissarides (2001) and Alvarez and Veracierto (2001) show that employment protection can play an important role in the absence of perfect insurance markets. Schmitz (2004) argues that constraining contractual freedom by legislating employment protection can be welfare-enhancing when principal-agent relationships are plagued by asymmetric information. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "50223326", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50223326", "title": "G-PASS Companies", "text": "G-PASS Companies\n\nG-PASS (Government Performance ASSured) Companies refer to companies acknowledged of their technical skills and reliability by PPS KOREA through domestic government procurement, possessing potential for competitive export in foreign nations. They professionally manufacture products necessary in government procurements. As of 2016, there were 275 companies selected.\n\n"}
{"id": "17483212", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17483212", "title": "Half-proof", "text": "Half-proof\n\nHalf-proof \"(semiplena probatio)\" was a concept of medieval Roman law, describing a level of evidence between mere suspicion and the full proof (\"plena probatio\") needed to convict someone of a crime. The concept was introduced by the Glossators of the 1190s such as Azo, who gives such examples as a single witness or private documents.\n\nIn cases where there was half-proof against a defendant, he might be allowed to take an oath as to his innocence, or he might be sent for torture to extract further evidence that could complete the burden of proof.\n\nSir Matthew Hale, the leading late 17th-century English jurist, wrote:\n\"The evidence at Law which taken singly or apart makes but an imperfect proof, \"semiplena probatio\", yet in conjunction with others grows to a full proof, like Silurus his twigs, that were easily broken apart, but in conjunction or union were not to be broken.\" However, the concept never became firmly established in English law.\n\nIn later times, half-proof was mentioned in 19th century Scots law and in the 1917 Catholic Canon Law.\n\n"}
{"id": "21340210", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21340210", "title": "Hoenig v Isaacs", "text": "Hoenig v Isaacs\n\nHoenig v Isaacs [1952] EWCA Civ 6 is an English contract law case, concerning substantial performance of an entire obligation.\n\nMr Hoenig was meant to decorate and furnish Mr Isaac’s flat for £750. When the work was done, there were problems with a bookcase and wardrobe, which would cost £55 to fix. Mr Isaac refused to pay the £350 outstanding.\n\nSomervell LJ noted each case turns on the construction of the contract. Where there is substantial performance of the contract, then money must be paid. The work was done, and then there was merely a damages claim in respect of the faulty bits.\n\nDenning LJ gave judgment as follows.\n\nRomer LJ concurred.\n\n"}
{"id": "7650600", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7650600", "title": "IRS penalties", "text": "IRS penalties\n\nTaxpayers in the United States may face various penalties for failures related to Federal, state, and local tax matters. The Internal Revenue Service (IRS) is primarily responsible for charging these penalties at the Federal level. The IRS can assert only those penalties specified imposed under Federal tax law. State and local rules vary widely, are administered by state and local authorities, and are not discussed herein.\n\nPenalties may be monetary or may involve forfeiture of property. Criminal penalties may include jail time, but are imposed only by a federal judge after a defendant is convicted. Most monetary penalties are based on the amount of tax not properly paid. Penalties may increase with the period of nonpayment. Some penalties are fixed dollar amounts or fixed percentages of some measure required to be reported. Excise taxes used as penalties are imposed in the Code sections relating to particular kinds of transactions. Some penalties may be waived or abated where the taxpayer shows reasonable cause for the failure.\n\nPenalties apply for failures to file income tax returns or information returns, or for filing incorrect returns. Some penalties may be very minor. Penalties apply for certain types of errors on tax returns, and may be substantial. Some penalties are imposed as excise taxes on particular transactions. Certain other penalties apply for other types of failures. Certain acts may result in forfeiture of property of the taxpayer.\n\nThere are over 150 kinds of civil penalties in the U.S. Internal Revenue Code, ranging in severity which is reflected in the amount of the applicable fines.\n\nTaxpayers are required to have withholding of tax or make quarterly estimated tax payments before the end of the tax year. Because accurate estimation requires accurate prediction of the future, taxpayers sometimes underestimate the amount due. The penalty for paying too little estimated tax or having too little tax withheld is computed with interest on the amount that should have been, but was not, paid.\n\nWhere a taxpayer has filed an income or excise tax return that shows a balance due but does not pay that balance by the due date of the return (without extensions), a different charge applies. This charge has two components: an interest charge, computed as described above, and second a penalty of 0.5% per month applied to the unpaid balance of tax and interest. The 0.5% penalty is capped at 25% of the total unpaid tax.\n\nThe underestimate penalty and interest on late payment are automatically assessed.\n\nPenalty for Failure to Timely File Return: If a taxpayer is required to file an income or excise tax return and fails to timely do so, a late filing penalty may be assessed. The penalty is 5% of the amount of unpaid tax per month (or partial month) the return is late, up to a maximum of 25%. A minimum penalty of $205 may apply for returns over 60 days late. The minimum penalty is the lesser of $205 or 100% of the tax due on the return.\n\nPenalty for Failure to Timely Pay Tax: If a taxpayer fails to pay the balance due shown on the tax return by the due date (even if the reason of nonpayment is a bounced check), there is a penalty of 0.5% of the amount of unpaid tax per month (or partial month), up to a maximum of 25%.\n\nPenalty for Failure to Timely Pay After Issuance of Notice: If a taxpayer fails to pay any additional tax assessed by the IRS (usually as a result of an audit) the taxpayer may be liable for a penalty equal to 0.5% for each month (or partial month) during which the failure continues, if the amount is not paid within 21 calendar days after the date of an IRS notice demanding the payment.\n\nIf both the failure to file and the failure to pay penalties apply during the same month, then the failure to file penalty is reduced by 0.5% each month.\n\nThe 25% cap above applies to the 5% late filing penalty and the 0.5% late payment penalty together. The late filing penalty may be waived or abated on showing of reasonable cause for failure. The failure to file penalty is imposed and starts to accrue interest from the due date of the return. The failure to pay penalty is imposed when a taxpayer pays the taxes after payment was due, computed from the date prescribed for paying the tax.\n\nThe Internal Revenue Service advises that if the taxpayer wants to compute the penalty for failure to timely file and the penalty for failure to timely pay the tax shown on the return, or the interest, and to pay those items at the time the return is filed, the taxpayer can \"identify and enter the amount in the bottom margin\" on the second page of Form 1040. The IRS advises that the taxpayer \"not include interest or penalties (other than the estimated tax penalty)\" in the \"Amount Owed\" line of the form.\n\nIf amounts reported on an income tax return are later adjusted by the IRS and a tax increase results, an additional penalty may apply. This penalty of 20% or 40% of the increase in tax is due in the case of substantial understatement of tax, substantial valuation misstatements, transfer pricing adjustments, or negligence or disregard of rules or regulations. For example, a valuation overstatement can result in a 30% penalty on the amount of tax owed. Special rules apply for each of these types of errors under which the penalty may be waived.\n\nCertain types of returns, called \"information returns,\" do not require payment of tax. These include forms filed by employers to report wages (Form W-2) and businesses to report certain payments (Form 1099 series instructions). The penalty for failures related to these forms is a dollar amount per form not timely filed, and the amount of penalty increases with the degree of lateness. The current maximum penalty for these forms is $50. Many of the forms must be filed electronically, and filing on paper is considered non-filing.\n\nLate filing of returns of partnership income (Form 1065) can result in penalties of $195 per month per partner, up to a maximum of 12 months. Similar penalties may apply to an income tax return (Form 1120S) for an S corporation.\n\nEmployers are required to withhold income and social security taxes from wages paid to employees, and to pay these amounts promptly to the government. A penalty of 100% of the amount not paid over (plus liability for paying the withheld amounts) may be collected without judicial proceedings from each and every person who had custody and control of the funds and did not make the payment to the government. This applies to company employees and officers as individuals, as well as to companies themselves. There have been reported cases of the IRS seizing houses of those failing to pay over employee taxes.\n\nTaxpayers who are shareholders of controlled foreign corporations must file Form 5471 with respect to each such controlled foreign corporation. Penalties for failure to timely file are $10,000 to $50,000 per form, plus possible loss of foreign tax credits. U.S. corporations more than 25% owned, directly or indirectly, by foreign persons must file Form 5472 to report such ownership and all transactions with related parties. Failure to timely file carries a $10,000 penalty per required form. This penalty may be increased by $10,000 per month per form for continued failure to file. In addition, taxpayers who fail to report changes in foreign taxes used as credits against Federal income tax may be subject to penalties.\n\nU.S. citizen or resident taxpayers (including entities) who are beneficiaries of a foreign trust or make transfers of property to a foreign trust must report information about the transfer and the trust or corporation. Failure to timely report on Form 3520 or Form 3520-A may result in penalties of up to 35%. Similar transferors to foreign corporations failing to file Form 926 may face penalties of 10% of the value of the transfer, up to $100,000.\n\nFederal excise taxes are imposed on a variety of goods and services. Some of these taxes require purchase of tax stamps or other evidence of advance payment of tax. Some require collection of the tax by retailers. An assortment of penalties apply to manufacturers and retailers not complying with the particular rules.\n\nIn addition, certain penalties are imposed in the form of an excise tax. Pension and benefit plans must pay a tax for a variety of failures. Charities and private foundations must pay an excise tax on prohibited transactions and other failures.\n\nIntentional filing of materially false tax returns is a criminal offence. A person convicted of committing tax fraud, or aiding and abetting another in committing tax fraud, may be subject to forfeiture of property and/or jail time. Conviction and sentencing is through the court system. Responsibility for prosecution falls to the U.S. Department of Justice, not the Internal Revenue Service.\n\nPenalties may be assessed against tax protesters who raise arguments that income tax laws are not valid, or who otherwise file frivolous returns or court petitions.\n\nPenalties also apply to people who promote tax shelters or who fail to maintain and disclose lists of reportable transactions their customers or clients for those transactions. These monetary penalties can be severe.\n\nMost penalties are subject to judicial review. However, the courts rarely modify assessment of the penalties and interest for underestimate or late payment.\n\n"}
{"id": "2750352", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2750352", "title": "Internet leak", "text": "Internet leak\n\nAn Internet leak occurs when a party's confidential information is released to the public on the Internet. Various types of information and data can be, and have been, \"leaked\" to the Internet, the most common being personal information, computer software and source code, and artistic works such as books or albums. For example, a musical album is leaked if it has been made available to the public on the Internet before its official release date; and is still intended to be confidential.\n\nSource code leaks are usually caused by misconfiguration of software like CVS or FTP which allow people to get source files by exploiting, by software bugs, or by employees that have access to the sources of part of them revealing the code in order to harm the company.\n\nThere were many cases of source code leaks in the history of software development.\n\nFor instance, as Fraunhofer IIS released in 1994 only a low quality version of their MP3 encoding software (l3enc), a hacker named SoloH gathered the source code from the unprotected servers of the University of Erlangen and developed a higher quality version, which started the MP3 revolution on the internet.\n\nAround 1996 Electronic Arts accidentally put the source code of FIFA 97 on a demo disc.\n\nIn 2003 a hacker exploited a security hole in Microsoft's Outlook to get the complete source of the video game \"Half-Life 2\", which was under development at the time. The complete source was soon available in various file sharing networks. This leak was rumored to be the cause of the game's delay, but later was stated not to be.\n\nAlso in 2003, source code to Diebold Election Systems Inc. voting machines was leaked. Researchers at Johns Hopkins University and Rice University published a damning critique of Diebold's products, based on an analysis of the software. They found, for example, that it would be easy to program a counterfeit voting card to work with the machines and then use it to cast multiple votes inside the voting booth.\n\nIn 2003 a Chinese Hacker acquired the Lineage II source code, and sold it to someone who set up alternative servers. Shutdown by FBI in 2007.\n\nIn 2003, one year after 3dfx was bought by Nvidia and support ended, the source code for their drivers leaked, resulting in fan-made, updated drivers.\n\nIn 2004, a large portion of Windows NT 4.0's source code and a small percentage (reportedly about 15%) of Windows 2000's were leaked online. The Windows 2000 source code leak was analysed by a writer for (now defunct) website Kuro5hin who noted that while the code was generally well written, allegedly \"there are a dozen or so 'fucks' and 'shits', and hundreds of 'craps'.\" The writer also noted that there were a lot of code hacks, with the \"uglier\" ones mostly being for compatibility with older programs and some hardware. It was feared that because of the leak, the number of security exploits would increase due to wider scrutiny of the source code. It was later discovered that the source of the leak originated from Mainsoft.\n\nAlso in 2004, partial (800 MB) proprietary source code that drives Cisco Systems' networking hardware was made available in the internet. The site posted two files of source code written in the C programming language, which apparently enables some next-generation IPv6 functionality. News of the latest source code leak appeared on a Russian security site.\n\nIn 2006, Anonymous hackers stole source code (about 1 GiB) for Symantec's pcAnywhere from the company's network. While confirmed in January 2012, it is still unclear how the hackers accessed the network.\n\nIn late 2007, the source code of Norton Ghost 12 and a Norton Anti-Spyware version were available via BitTorrent.\n\nIn December 2007 and January 8, a Pirate Bay user published the sources of five Idera SQL products via BitTorrent.\n\nIn January 2011 the \"stolen source code\" of Kaspersky Anti-Virus 2008 was published on the Pirate Bay.\n\nOn May 20, 2011, EVE Online's source code was published by someone on a GitHub repository. After being online for four days CCP issued a DMCA take-down request which was followed by GitHub.\n\nIn 2011 the source code of v1.5 became available online.\n\nIn December 2011, the source code of the Solaris 11 operating system's kernel was leaked via BitTorrent.\n\nIn August 2014 's X-Ray Engine source code (and its successor) became available on GitHub under a non-open-source license.\n\nOn December 29, 2015 the AmigaOS 3.1 source code leaked to the web, confirmed by the rights holder Hyperion Entertainment.\n\nIn January 2017 the source code of Opera's Presto Browser engine was leaked to GitHub. The source code was shortly after taken down with a DMCA notice.\n\nIn June 2017 part of Microsoft's Windows 10 source code leaked to the public.\n\nSometimes software developers themselves will leak their source code in an effort to prevent a software product from becoming abandonware after it has reached its end-of-life, allowing the community to continue development and support. Reasons for leaking instead of a proper release to public domain or as open-source can include scattered or lost intellectual property rights. An example is the video game \"Falcon 4.0\" which became available in 2000; another one is \"Dark Reign 2\", which was released by an anonymous former Pandemic Studios developer in 2011. Another notable example is an archive of Infocom's video games source code which appeared from an anonymous Infocom source and was archived by the Internet Archive in 2008.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36312642", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36312642", "title": "Jean-Louis Gouttes", "text": "Jean-Louis Gouttes\n\nJean-Louis de Gouttes (1739 - 7 March 1794) was a cleric and a French statesman of the Revolution.\n\nBorn in Tulle, in Limousin, he joined a regiment of dragoons as a young man before becoming a priest.\n\nCuré of a parish near Bordeaux, then of Argilliers in the Franche-Comte, he was one of the leaders of the lower clergy of his diocese, demanding higher salaries for the impoverished parish priest.\n\nHe was elected (27 March 1789) by the sénéchaussée of Béziers in Languedoc, to the First Estate of the Estates General, with 185 votes out of 3111. He served a term as president of the National Constituent Assembly 29 April to 8 May 1790.\n\nIn 1791, he was consecrated as Constitutional bishop of Saône-et-Loire to replace of Talleyrand, who had resigned from the position he held under the ancien régime as Bishop of Autun. On 3 September, he was elected administrator of the département.\n\nHaving protested against dechristianisation and against the Reign of Terror, he was arrested by decree of the Committee of Public Safety. Sentenced to death on 6 Germinal Year II, he was guillotined the next day, 7 March 1794.\n"}
{"id": "3490903", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3490903", "title": "Jordan House Hotel Ltd v Menow", "text": "Jordan House Hotel Ltd v Menow\n\nJordan House Hotel Ltd v Menow (1973) is a landmark decision of the Supreme Court of Canada on the commercial host liability where the Court held that a bar owner has a duty to reasonably ensure their intoxicated patrons are able to make it home safely.\n\nMenow had a reputation of behaving badly and was banned from the Jordan House Hotel for drunken behavior. Eventually he was allowed back and was allowed to be served alcohol on the condition that he be escorted by a responsible adult. On a later night he went to the hotel bar but was abandoned by his escort for three hours while he was served drinks. He became extremely intoxicated and began to harass other patrons. Menow was soon ejected from the hotel bar and started to make his way home down a highway but was hit by a car.\n\nMenow brought an action against the hotel in tort for violating their duty of care by serving him alcohol and not ensuring he was safe when he left the hotel.\n\nAt trial, the court held that the hotel violated a common law duty of care to protect patrons from \"danger of personal injury, foreseeable as a result of the eviction\". The duty, the trial judge found, could have easily been discharged by calling the police or arrange for a safe way home.\n\nThe Supreme Court upheld much of the trial judge's ruling. Ritchie J. found that the hotel was aware of Menow's behaviour yet still assisted him in becoming intoxicated, which they ought to have known might result in danger to Menow. This awareness should have \"seized them with a duty to be careful not to serve him with repeated drinks after the effects of what he had already consumed should have been obvious.\" The breach of duty was a result of both a failure to protect Menow once he became intoxicated and a failure to ensure he did not become intoxicated in the first place.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17958000", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17958000", "title": "Legal clinic", "text": "Legal clinic\n\nA legal clinic (also law clinic or law school clinic) is a law school program providing hands-on-legal experience to law school students and services to various clients. Clinics are usually directed by clinical professors. Legal clinics typically do \"pro bono\" work in a particular area, providing free legal services to clients.\n\nA legal clinic or law clinic is a nonprofit law practice serving the public interest. Legal clinics originated as a method of practical teaching of law school students, but today they encompass also free legal aid with no academic links. There are practice-based law clinics with no academic link which provide hands-on skills to lawyers, judges and non-lawyers on practical ethical dimensions of the law at the same time offer free public defence legal services.\n\nAccording to Avani Bansal, In cases where parties cannot afford a lawyer and are provided legal services by the state, the quality of that legal representation is often questionable. Therefore the need for clinical legal education, or establishing legal aid clinics at law schools, where law students can provide legal advice to indigent people.\n\nStudents typically provide assistance with research, drafting legal arguments, and meeting with clients. In many cases, one of the clinic's professors will show up for oral argument before the Court. However, many jurisdictions have \"student practice\" rules that allow law-clinic students to appear and argue in court.\n\nClinical legal studies exist in diverse areas such as immigration law, environmental law, intellectual property, housing, criminal defense, criminal prosecution, American Indian law, human rights and international criminal law. Clinics sometimes sue big companies and government entities, which has led to pushback in courts and legislatures, including attempts to put limits on whom clinics can sue without losing state subsidies.\nPro Bono Net are online Legal aid services, in some cases supported by legal clinics.\n\nWhile in many jurisdictions have \"student practice\" rules that allow law-clinic students to appear and argue in court., in some countries like India law students are still studying at law schools, they cannot represent the clients in courts by themselves. \n\nAccording to Avani Bansal in many law schools, clinical legal education is imparted without the support of practical component and lacks policy. Participation in many of these legal clinics lacks academic credits. Lack of resources, lack of trained faculty for the purpose, lack of involvement of Bar Council Members leads to ineffective and weak clinical legal education in countries like India. Communities around are not informed so are not involved. All these aspects frustrate the effective purpose of the Legal clinic in the sense that it neither trains students in practice nor it reaches to the public.\n\n"}
{"id": "12027400", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12027400", "title": "Legal document assistant", "text": "Legal document assistant\n\nA legal document assistant (LDA, also commonly known as \"document technician,\" \"legal document preparer,\" \"legal technician,\" \"online legal document provider\" and \"legal document clerk\") in the United States is a non-lawyer authorized to assist with the preparation of legal instruments. Unlike a paralegal, legal document assistants do not work under the supervision of an attorney.\n\nA Legal Document Assistant is an American phenomenon created in response to the most strict licensing laws for attorneys in the world. The job was created by using the doctrine of \"pro se\" to enable someone to help another prepare a legal document. Except for Louisiana and Puerto Rico, in the United States only an attorney can advise and draft a legal document for another. With the self-help \"pro se\" concept and stock legal forms the Legal Document Preparer profession was born.\n\nThe role of a Legal Document Assistant varies significantly across legal jurisdictions, and therefore can be treated here in only the most general terms. Some acts performed by Legal Document Assistants may be lawful in one jurisdiction and prohibited in other jurisdictions.\n\nMany LDAs view their professional history as descending directly from that of the scribe or scrivener. The terms \"legal scrivener\" and \"independent paralegal\" were commonly used in the US from the late 1970s until 1994. In that year, the Bankruptcy Reform Act was signed into law by President Bill Clinton. Among other provisions, it banned the use of the word \"legal,\" in any form, to describe the services provided by non-attorney document preparers, and also specifically created the term \"bankruptcy petition preparer.\" This forced many US LDAs who assisted with bankruptcies to search for new terms to describe their profession.\n\nAlthough California became the first state to formally regulate LDAs, the first licensing proposal was the Oregon Scrivener's Act, introduced in the Oregon legislature in 1985. In 2003, Arizona began certifying individuals and businesses who prepare documents through its \"Legal Document Preparer Program\". as \"certified legal document preparers\" (CLDP).\n\nIt is commonly accepted that the first well-known LDA was Rosemary Furman; Furman, a Florida resident had been a legal secretary for about 35 years, when she was laid off in 1976. Not finding anyone willing to hire a middle-aged legal assistant, she began offering her services as a free-lance paralegal. Within a short time, she had developed a thriving business, not, as she had originally anticipated, from lawyers needing assistance, but instead from consumers wanting to purchase legal documents directly, to represent themselves in matters such as divorces, name changes and guardianship proceedings. When Furman was charged by the Florida Supreme Court in 1977 for \"unauthorized practice of law,\" she became somewhat of a national \"cause célèbre\". In the long run however, she was unsuccessful, and after having her request for review by the United States Supreme Court denied, she elected to close her business and retire, rather than be sent to jail for contempt.\n\nFurman’s misconduct went far beyond merely practicing law without a license. As noted by the Supreme Court of Florida, the uncontradicted testimony of her former customers was that she encouraged them to falsify information in marriage dissolution papers and to conceal relevant information. Her purported reasons were various: it’s none of their damn business, they don’t pay attention to the information, or you’ll (either) get less or give more money in the dissolution judgment. In one instance, she advised a wife who had been married, divorced, and remarried to the same husband but could not remember the date of the remarriage to insert the date of the dissolved first marriage as the date of the second marriage in the petition for dissolution. Another couple who disagreed on whether their stipulation on child support provided for $35 per week or $35 per child was advised that it didn’t matter because the judge awarded whatever he wanted to anyway. In a particularly egregious instance, she assisted a husband seeking a marriage dissolution in preparing a stipulation in which he agreed to child custody by the wife. While the dissolution petition and child custody stipulation were pending before the court, the husband became aware that the wife was abusing the children, took actual custody of the children, and consulted Furman about withdrawing his stipulated agreement on child custody. Furman advised him not to do so because this would require “starting over” on the dissolution petition and he should let the social agency handle the child abuse and custody problem.\n\nCurrent case law in Florida has established that a non-lawyer may sell blank legal forms, type legal forms completed by hand, and sell general printed legal information. The non-lawyer can not, however, advise a customer how to complete a legal form, as this constitutes the practice of law.\n\nThe Florida Association of Legal Document Preparers - FALDP - http://www.faldp.org - is a statewide trade association of dedicated document preparers. Founded in 2010, FALDP has around 100 members statewide. The association continues to thrive, and offers online courses explaining how to prepare various documents. The courses, while targeted towards document preparers helping consumers, are available to anyone who enrolls -- membership is not required. Education and experience requirements for joining the association are posted on the site.\n\nIn 2015 FALDP began a certification program for its members. Members in good standing may earn certification by passing a basic skills/ knowledge test; passing a focus area test; and completing ten Continuing Education Units (CEUs) per year. CEUs can be earned in a variety of ways including taking online courses, participating in webinars, attending FALDP's annual conference, and outreach to consumers.\n\nAt about the same time that Rosemary Furman was receding from the public eye however, another woman began gaining national prominence for her role in the self-help legal profession. Peggy Muse, unlike Rosemary Furman, was not a retired legal secretary, in fact, she had never worked in a lawyer's office. An attractive woman in her 30s (in fact, a former model), Muse had been a consumer advocate for a small community newspaper in Medford, Oregon, where she lived with her three school-age children. When the column was canceled by the newspaper, she rented a small office space above a dress shop, and outfitted with a card table and two chairs, opened the Consumer Sounding Board (CSB); intended to be a private consumer advocacy agency, CSB soon grew into the business of preparing legal documents, as Muse discovered that one of the most common consumer complaints, related to the high cost of legal representation for relatively minor needs.\n\nAfter establishing her office in Medford into a full-time storefront operation, with several employees, Muse moved to Oregon's largest city, Portland, and opened a second CSB office. Within a few years, she began to receive national attention, as well as attention from the Oregon State Bar. She was featured in a front-page sectional article in the \"Los Angeles Times\", which in addition to detailing her Portland and Medford offices, also followed her in her mobile \"paralegal van,\" as she went with an employee to set up shop in a small-town parking lot for a day, to offer her services to the residents of a rural area. Shortly after this, and after being featured in a segment of NBC's \"Today Show\", she began offering franchises, as well as setting up additional company-owned offices. At its height, CSB had a total of 14 offices in 4 Western states. In 1993 however, after a 15-year legal battle, the Oregon Bar succeeded in convincing a judge in Medford to sentence Muse to jail for 20 days. Following that experience, she divested herself of her remaining offices, and moved to California, where she remains today, having been one of the first persons licensed there as an LDA, following the 1998 licensing act.\n\nLegal Document Assistants in the State of California are still sometimes incorrectly referred to as \"independent paralegals\" or \"freelance paralegals,\" even though it has been more than a decade since those terms became obsolete by law. On September 30, 1998 Governor Pete Wilson signed California State Senate Bill SB1418, regulating the legal document preparation profession in the State of California, and creating a new formal title, Legal Document Assistant (LDA).\n\nWhile many LDAs have paralegal education and experience, in California they are not the same as paralegals. Under California law, a paralegal is prohibited from providing services directly to the consumer. Paralegals may only be employed by an attorney, law firm, corporation, governmental agency, or other entity; and work under the direct supervision of a licensed attorney within the scope of that employment.\n\nUnlike paralegals, LDAs are authorized by law to provide legal document preparation services to consumers, after complying with the registration and bonding requirements. Neither paralegals nor LDAs are permitted to engage in the practice of law.\n\nLDAs are not lawyers and do not offer legal advice, discuss legal strategies, answer questions of a legal nature, select forms for the consumer, or appear in court on the consumer’s behalf. They are professionals, qualified through education, training or work experience, authorized to assist consumers representing themselves in legal matters by preparing and processing the necessary legal documents.\n\nA Legal Document Assistant, as defined by the California Business & Professions Code (Section 6400 (c)) is: \"Any person who is otherwise not exempted and who provides, or assists in providing, or offers to provide, or offers to assist in providing, for compensation, any self-help service to a member of the public who is representing himself or herself in a legal matter, or who holds himself or herself out as someone who offers that service or has that authority, or a corporation, partnership, association, or other entity that employs or contracts with any person who is not otherwise exempted who, as part of his or her responsibilities, provides, or assists in providing, or offers to provide, or offers to assist in providing, for compensation, any self-help service to a member of the public who is representing himself or herself in a legal matter or holds himself or herself out as someone who offers that service or has that authority.\"\n\nThe California Association of Legal Document Assistants was established in August 1986, and was formerly known as “California Association of Independent Paralegals” (CAIP). CALDA is the time-honored organization for legal document preparation professionals and supporters of this profession. CALDA promotes and encourages high standards of ethical and professional conduct while offering its members educational opportunities, professional alliance, a website business listing, member forum exchange, and attorney approved printed brochure materials. Commitment is given to increasing public access to the legal system and CALDA recognizes the Legal Document Assistant’s professional responsibilities to the public, to the legal system, and to colleagues.\n\nCALDA promotes growth, development, and recognition of the Legal Document Assistants’ profession as an integral partner in the delivery of legal services. Membership consists of registered and bonded California Legal Document Assistants, Bankruptcy Petition Preparers, Social Security Disability Advocates, SSI Advocates, and sustaining members who support and enhance the LDA profession.\n\nCALDA’s Board of directors is composed of members who volunteer to help run and manage this organization: Nancy Newlin (President), Connie Crokett (Vice President), Jeannie Bruins (Chief Financial Officer), Carol Ludlow (Secretary), Robin Schumacher (Vice President of Central Valley Chapter-CALDA), Angela Grijalva (Newsletter Chair) and (President of the Capital City Chapter), Jim Wilroy (Legislative Chair) and Carlo Perez (Educational Chair).\n\nCertain types of legal documents can be drafted by a notary public in the State of Louisiana. Louisiana notaries public prepare and draft legal documents of a noncontentious nature (i.e. not for court cases) such as wills, trusts, marriage contracts, articles of incorporation, estate inventories, mortgages, real estate sales contracts, powers of attorney, etc. Aside from drafting, they are also authorized to make inventories, property descriptions, take company minutes, and appraise and convey real estate. Louisiana, along with Puerto Rico, have this exception because prior to inclusion in the United States, both were (and continue to be) under the civil law legal system. Under civil law, notaries are lawyers, which is why in Louisiana notaries are appointed for life and used to be licensed before the advent of practice of law statutes in the 1930s. Louisiana notaries public are not required to be attorneys or otherwise trained in law; however, they do have to pass an extensive exam on notarial law (i.e., the areas of law a notary can draft for - property law, estate law, family law, etc.), they must sign and witness the signing of the documents they draft (notarial acts), and register and file those documents with the local court.\n\nAs the preparation of legal documents becomes more and more computerized, the function of non-attorney document preparers has become less dependent upon the preparer's individual skills, and more upon the quality of their software. By the same token, the continued increase of the availability of document software, legal aid websites, and the like, make it more and more likely that persons with some level of computer skills will be able to prepare and file legal documents without attorneys, and in fact, may not need even the limited assistance offered by LDAs, to prepare competent and quality legal documents. In fact, in the late 1990s, the Texas Bar Association, recognizing the threat that this trend represents to the pocketbooks of lawyers, sued Nolo Press, the country's leading publisher of self-help books and software, for alleging that Nolo was guilty of practicing law without a license. Although the Federal Circuit Court hearing the case initially ruled in favor of the State Bar, ultimately, they were unsuccessful, as the Texas Legislature passed a law which clearly established that selling books and software on legal subjects could not be considered practicing law. The preceding sentence exemplifies why the Texas Bar Association's concern with \"quality legal documents\" prepared by non-attorneys extends beyond the mere \"threat that this trend represents of [sic] the pocketbooks of lawyers,\" since the above mentioned law - Tex. Gov't. Ann. § 81.101 provides:\nAt the very least, it appears that the statute exempts only such books and software which \"clearly and conspicuously state that the products are not a substitute for the advice of an attorney.\" Thus, under certain facts and circumstances, it appears that such software and/or books \"could\" still constitute the unauthorized practice of law absent a disclaimer as \"required\" by the statute. For a discussion of the specific facts that led a federal court to conclude that the developer, publisher, and marketer of Quicken Family Lawyer had engaged in the unauthorized practice of law in Texas (prior to enactment of section C, above), the reader is referred to \"Unauthorized Practice of Law Committee v. Parsons\", 1999 WL 47235 (N.D. Tex. 1999)\n\nIn New York, \"quality\" legal documents are available online through the state court system.\n\n"}
{"id": "39857783", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39857783", "title": "Motor Vehicles Act, 1988", "text": "Motor Vehicles Act, 1988\n\nThe Motor Vehicles Act, 1988 is an Act of the Parliament of India which regulates all aspects of road transport vehicles. The Act came into force from 1 July 1989. It replaced Motor Vehicles Act, 1939 which earlier replaced the first such enactment Motor Vehicles Act, 1914. The Act provides in detail the legislative provisions regarding licensing of drivers/conductors, registration of motor vehicles, control of motor vehicles through permits, special provisions relating to state transport undertakings, traffic regulation, insurance, liability, offences and penalties, etc. For exercising the legislative provisions of the Act, the Government of India made the Central Motor Vehicles Rules 1989.\n\nSome of the definitions from the act are given below:\n\nThere is a provision to provide with no upper \nlimit, as interim relief to the family of victim of fatal accidents. The cases of road accident compensation claims are decided in the Motor Accident Claims Tribunal.\n\nThe \"Indian Motor Vehicles Act, 1914\" was a central legislation passed and applicable in British India. Some princely states followed suit, with local modifications. Motor vehicles were first introduced in India towards the end of the 19th century, and the 1914 Act was the first legislation to regulate their use. It had 18 sections, and gave local governments the responsibility of registering and licensing vehicles and motorists, and enforcing regulations. It was replaced by the \"Motor Vehicles Act, 1939\", which came into force in 1940.\n\nThe \"Indian Motor Vehicles Act, 1914\" was amended by the \"Indian Motor Vehicles (Amendment) Act, 1920\" (Act No. XXVII of 1920) passed by the Imperial Legislative Council. It received assent from the Governor General of India on 2 September 1920. The Act amended sections 11 and 18 of the 1914 Act.\n\nThe Act was amended again by the \"Indian Motor Vehicles (Amendment) Act, 1924\" (Act No. XV of 1924). The Act received assent from the Governor General on 18 September 1924. It had the title, \"An Act further to amend the Indian Motor Vehicles Act, 1914, for certain purposes\" and amended section 11 of the 1914 Act by inserting the words \"and the duration for which\" after the words \"area in which\" in clause (a) of subsection (2) of section 11. The motor vehicle act has again been amended in 2016.\n\nThis will be a significant upgrade to the motor vehicle laws. It envisages body cams on traffic cops and RTO officials to check corruption and 7 year imprisonment instead of current 2 years for drink-driving deaths, mandatory 3rd party insurance for all vehicles, and stiffer penalties for traffic violations to reduce the accident rates.\n\n"}
{"id": "15345226", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15345226", "title": "Norwegian Research Center for Computers and Law", "text": "Norwegian Research Center for Computers and Law\n\nNorwegian Research Center for Computers and Law (, SERI) at the Faculty of Law, University of Oslo is the second-oldest academic institution in the world working specifically with the interrelationship of law and information / communication technology. Today, the NRCCL is one of the world leading institutions in the field of information/communication technology law.\n\nNRCCL's main areas of research are media law and Internet governance, legal technology, electronic commerce, eGovernment, data protection and information security. The center offers a LL.M.-degree in Information and Communication Technology Law. \n\nThe center was founded by Professor Knut S. Selmer and Professor Jon Bing.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "706956", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=706956", "title": "Nuremberg Charter", "text": "Nuremberg Charter\n\nThe Charter of the International Military Tribunal – Annex to the Agreement for the prosecution and punishment of the major war criminals of the European Axis (usually referred to as the Nuremberg Charter or London Charter) was the decree issued by the European Advisory Commission on 8 August 1945 that set down the rules and procedures by which the Nuremberg trials were to be conducted.\n\nThe charter stipulated that crimes of the European Axis Powers could be tried. Three categories of crimes were defined: crimes against peace, war crimes, and crimes against humanity. Article 8 of the charter also stated that holding an official position was no defense to war crimes. Obedience to orders could only be considered in mitigation of punishment if the Tribunal determined that justice so required.\n\nThe criminal procedure used by the Tribunal was closer to civil law than to common law, with a trial before a panel of judges rather than a jury trial and with wide allowance for hearsay evidence. Defendants who were found guilty could appeal the verdict to the Allied Control Council. In addition, they would be permitted to present evidence in their defense and to cross-examine witnesses.\n\nThe Charter was developed by the European Advisory Commission under the authority of the Moscow Declaration: Statement on Atrocities, which was agreed at the Moscow Conference (1943). It was drawn up in London, following the surrender of Germany on VE Day. It was drafted by Robert H. Jackson, Robert Falco, and Iona Nikitchenko of the European Advisory Commission and issued on 8 August 1945.\n\nThe Charter and its definition of crimes against peace was also the basis of the Finnish law, approved by the Finnish parliament on 11 September 1945, that enabled the war-responsibility trials in Finland.\n\nThe Agreement for the prosecution and punishment of the major war criminals of the European Axis and the annexed Charter were formally signed by France, the Soviet Union, the United Kingdom, and the United States on 8 August 1945. The Agreement and Charter were subsequently ratified by 19 other Allied states.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5891684", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5891684", "title": "Optiarc", "text": "Optiarc\n\nOptiarc is a brand of optical desk drives owned by a US company Vinpower, Inc.\n\nInitially Optiarc was established on April 3, 2006 as a joint venture between Sony Corporation (55% shares) and NEC Corporation (45% shares). The company, named Sony NEC Optiarc, focused on manufacturing optical disk drives primarily for the OEM desktop and notebook PC markets.\n\nOn September 11, 2008, it was announced that Sony would take over NEC's 45% share, making Optiarc a wholly owned subsidiary of Sony, to be called Sony Optiarc. This took effect on December 5, 2008\n\nIn March 2013, Sony closed its Optiarc optical disk division, laying off about 400 employees globally.\n\nIn 2017, a US company Vinpower, whose main business was manufacturing optical disc duplicators for the commercial market, acquired rights to the Optiarc brand and product line.\n\nSimilar joint ventures in the data storage industry:\n\n"}
{"id": "405736", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=405736", "title": "Perverting the course of justice", "text": "Perverting the course of justice\n\nPerverting the course of justice is an offence committed when a person prevents justice from being served on him/herself or on another party. In England and Wales it is a common law offence, carrying a maximum sentence of life imprisonment. Statutory versions of the offence exist in Australia, Canada, Hong Kong, Ireland, and New Zealand.\n\nDoing an act tending and intending to pervert the course of public justice is an offence under the common law of England and Wales.\n\nPerverting the course of justice can be any of three acts:\n\nAlso criminal are:\n\nThis offence, and the subject matter of the related forms of criminal conspiracy, have been referred to as: \n\nThis proliferation of alternative names is \"somewhat confusing\".\n\nThis offence is also sometimes referred to as \"attempting to pervert the course of justice\". This is potentially misleading. An attempt to pervert the course of justice is a substantive common law offence and not an inchoate offence. It is not a form of the offence of attempt, and it would be erroneous to charge it as being contrary to section 1(1) of the \"Criminal Attempts Act 1981\".\n\nThis offence is triable only on indictment.\n\nIn Canada, the equivalent offence is referred to as \"obstructing justice\". It is set out s 139 of the Criminal Code:\n\nIn New South Wales, the equivalent offence is set out in Section 319 of the Crimes Act 1900 (NSW). The maximum penalty is 14 years' imprisonment.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nAustralia\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6098966", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6098966", "title": "Political T-shirt", "text": "Political T-shirt\n\nA political T-shirt is a T-shirt that has a political slogan or image printed on it and which is intended to convey a political message. Katharine Hamnett revived the use of such shirts in 1984.\n"}
{"id": "51279500", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51279500", "title": "Political parties and political designations in Massachusetts", "text": "Political parties and political designations in Massachusetts\n\nIn the Commonwealth of Massachusetts (a U.S. state), there are three recognized political parties and an additional 25 political designations in which registered voters may choose to enroll. Voters may also choose to remain as \"unenrolled voters\" (i.e., independents). Political parties hold primary elections, while political designations do not. A political designation is a one-to-three word descriptive term which may appear next to candidates' names on election ballots. To be recognized as a political designation, fifty registered voters must file a document with the state seeking this status.\n\nIn Massachusetts, election ballots include the candidates' names followed by either the candidates' party or his or her \"political designation\"—a one-to-three word description that must be a other one-to-three word term whose recognition has been requested by fifty or more registered voters. In many cases, non-party designations include the word \"party\" in the designation. However, only three such designations actually correspond to organizations that are recognized by Massachusetts as political parties: the Republican Party, the Democratic Party, and the Libertarian Party.\n\nIn Massachusetts, registered voters may choose to (1) enroll in a political party; (2) enroll with a political designation; or (3) choose to be an unenrolled voter (i.e., an independent).\n\nVoters may change their enrollment status with their election official, with a deadline twenty days before an election.\n\nAll registered voters may vote in general elections. Massachusetts voters enrolled in a particular party may vote only in that party's primary, and cannot cross-over to vote in another party's primary, but \"unenrolled\" voters may cast a primary ballot for one of the three parties. Political designations are treated as \"unenrolled\" voters for primary purposes, and so they too may choose to vote in one of the party primaries.\n\nUnder Massachusetts law, a political designation is created when fifty registered Massachusetts voters \"file a form with the Secretary of the Commonwealth requesting that they, or any other voters, may change their registration to such designation.\" These non-party political designations may field candidates for statewide office, if they petition with a sufficient number of signatures (10,000).\n\nThe various political designations have generally small membership, although they have attracted some media attention.\n\nAs of 2016, the Secretary of the Commonwealth listed three officially recognized political parties and 25 officially recognized political designations in Massachusetts.\n\n"}
{"id": "36794221", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36794221", "title": "Pregnancy from rape", "text": "Pregnancy from rape\n\nPregnancy is a potential result of rape. It has been studied in the context of war, particularly as a tool for genocide, as well as other unrelated contexts, such as rape by a stranger, statutory rape, incest, and underage pregnancy. The current scientific consensus is that rape is at least as likely to lead to pregnancy as consensual sexual intercourse, with some studies suggesting rape may actually result in higher rates of pregnancy than consensual intercourse.\n\nRape can cause difficulties during and after pregnancy, with potential negative consequences for both the victim and a resulting child. Medical treatment following a rape includes testing for, preventing, and managing pregnancy. A woman who becomes pregnant after a rape may face a decision about whether to raise the child, give the child up for adoption or parenting by others, or to have an abortion. In some countries where abortion is illegal after rape and incest, over 90% of pregnancies in girls age 15 and under are due to rape by family members.\n\nThe false belief that pregnancy can almost never result from rape was widespread for centuries. In Europe, from medieval times well into the 18th century a man could use a woman's pregnancy as a legal defense to \"prove\" that he could not have raped her, since her pregnancy was thought to mean that she had enjoyed the sex and, therefore, consented to it. In recent decades, some pro-life organizations and politicians (such as Todd Akin) who oppose legal abortion in cases of rape have advanced claims that pregnancy very rarely arises from rape, and that the practical relevance of such exceptions to abortion law is, therefore, limited or non-existent.\n\nAny female capable of ovulation may become pregnant after rape by a virile male.\n\nEstimates of the numbers of pregnancies from rape vary widely. Recent estimates suggest that rape conception happens between 25,000 and 32,000 times each year in the U.S.\n\nIn a 1996 three-year longitudinal study of 4,000 American women, physician Melisa Holmes estimated from data from her study that forced sexual intercourse causes over 32,000 pregnancies in the United States each year. Physician Felicia H. Stewart and economist James Trussell estimated that the 333,000 assaults and rapes reported in the US in 1998 caused about 25,000 pregnancies, and up to 22,000 of those pregnancies could have been prevented by prompt medical treatment, such as emergency contraception.\n\nA 1996 study of 44 cases of rape-related pregnancy estimated that in the United States, the pregnancy rate is 5.0% per rape among victims of reproductive age (aged 12 to 45). A 1987 study also found a 5% pregnancy rate from rape among 18- to 24-year-old college students in the US. A 2005 study placed the rape-related pregnancy rate at around 3–5%.\nA study of Ethiopian adolescents who reported being raped found that 17% subsequently became pregnant, and rape crisis centres in Mexico reported the figure the rate of pregnancy from rape at 15–18%. Estimates of rape-related pregnancy rates may be inaccurate since the crime is under-reported, resulting in some pregnancies from rape not being recorded as such, or alternately, social pressure may mean some rapes are not reported if no pregnancy results.\n\nAlthough most studies suggest that conception rates are independent of whether insemination is due to rape or consensual sex, some analysts have suggested that the rate of conception may be higher, or lower, from insemination due to rape.\nPsychologist Robert L. Smith states that some studies have reported \"unusually high rates of conception following rape\". He cites a paper by C.A. Fox and Beatrice Fox, reporting that biologist Alan Sterling Parkes had speculated in personal correspondence that \"there is a high conception rate in rape, where hormonal release, due to fear or anger, could produce reflex ovulation\". Smith also cites veterinary scientist Wolfgang Jöchle, who \"proposed that rape may induce ovulation in human females\". Literary scholar Jonathan Gottschall and economist Tiffani Gottschall argued in a 2003 \"Human Nature\" article that previous studies of rape-pregnancy statistics were not directly comparable to pregnancy rates from consensual intercourse, because the comparisons were largely uncorrected for such factors as the use of contraception. Adjusting for these factors, they estimated that rapes are about twice as likely to result in pregnancies (7.98%) as \"consensual, unprotected penile-vaginal intercourse\" (2–4%). They discuss a variety of possible explanations and advance the hypothesis that rapists tend to target victims with biological \"cues of high fecundity\" or subtle indications of ovulation.\nIn contrast, psychologists Tara Chavanne and Gordon Gallup Jr., citing unpublished dissertations by Rogel and Morgan, argued that female adaptations reduce the likelihood of rape during fertile periods. A 1995 study of women who became pregnant after rape found that 60% had been impregnated during consensual intercourse. Anthropologist Daniel Fessler disputed these findings, saying, \"analysis of conception rates reveals that the probability of conception following rape does not differ from that following consensual coitus\".\n\nSociobiologists and evolutionary psychologists have hypothesized that causing pregnancy by rape may be a mating strategy in humans, as a way for males to ensure the survival of their genes by passing them on to future generations. Randy Thornhill and Craig T. Palmer are key popularizers of this hypothesis. They assert that most rape victims are women of childbearing age and that many cultures treat rape as a crime against the victim's husband. They state that rape victims suffer less emotional distress when they are subjected to more violence, and that married women and women of childbearing age experience greater psychological distress after a rape than do girls, single women or post-menopausal women. Rape-pregnancy rates are crucial in evaluating these theories, because a high or low pregnancy rate from rape would determine whether such adaptations are favored or disfavored by natural selection.\n\nIn 1995–96, the journal \"Family Planning Perspectives\" published a study by the Guttmacher Institute, a sexual health research and policy organization, on statutory rape (sexual intercourse with a minor) and resulting pregnancies. It drew on other research to conclude that \"at least half of all babies born to minor women are fathered by adult men\", and that \"although relatively small proportions of 13–14-year-olds have had intercourse, those who become sexually active at an early age are especially likely to have experienced coercive sex: Seventy-four percent of women who had intercourse before age 14 and 60% of those who had sex before age 15 report having had a forced sexual experience\". Because of difficulties in bringing such cases to trial, however, \"data from the period 1975–1978 ... indicate that, on average, only 413 men were arrested annually for statutory rape in California, even though 50,000 pregnancies occurred among underage women in 1976 alone\". In that state, it was found that two thirds of babies born to school-age mothers were fathered by adult men.\nSexual abuse early in life can lead young women to feel a lack of control over their sexual lives, decrease their future likelihood of using contraceptives such as condoms, and increase their chances of becoming pregnant or acquiring sexually transmitted infections. A 2007 paper by Child Trends examined studies from 2000 to 2006 to identify links between sexual abuse and teenage pregnancy, starting with Blinn-Pike et al.'s 2002 metastudy of 15 studies since 1989. It found that childhood sexual abuse has a \"significant association\" with adolescent pregnancy. Direct connections have been demonstrated both by retrospective studies examining antecedents to reported pregnancies and prospective studies, which track the lives of sex abuse victims and \"can be helpful for determining causality\". The more severe forms of abuse, such as rape and incest, entail a greater risk of adolescent pregnancy. Although some researchers suggest that pregnancy could be a choice made to escape a \"bad situation\", it may also be \"a direct result of unwanted intercourse\", which one study found to be the case for about 13% of participants in a Texas parenting program.\n\nIn Nicaragua, between 2000 and 2010, around 172,500 births were recorded for girls under 14, representing around 13% of the 10.3 million births during that period. These were attributed to poverty, laws forbidding abortion for rape and incest, lack of access to justice, and beliefs held in the culture and legal system. A 1992 study in Peru found that 90% of babies delivered to mothers aged 12–16 were conceived through rape, typically by a father, stepfather, or other close relative. In 1991 in Costa Rica, the figure was similar, with 95% of adolescent mothers under 15 having become pregnant through rape.\n\nMany of the youngest documented birth mothers in history experienced precocious puberty and were impregnated as a result of rape, including incest. The youngest, Peruvian Lina Medina, was impregnated when she was four and had a live birth in 1939, at age five.\n\nRape has been used as a weapon of psychological warfare for centuries, to terrorize, humiliate, and undermine the morale of the enemy. Rape was also used as an act of ethnic cleansing to produce babies that share the perpetrators' ethnicity. Forced pregnancy has been noted in places including Bangladesh, Darfur, and Bosnia. More broadly, pregnancy commonly results from wartime rape that was perpetrated without the intention of impregnating the enemy, as has been found in conflicts in East Timor, Liberia, Kosovo, and Rwanda. Gita Sahgal of Amnesty International commented that, rather than being primarily about \"spoils of war\" or sexual gratification, rape is often used in ethnic conflicts as a way for attackers to perpetuate social control and redraw ethnic boundaries. Children may be born to women and girls forced to \"marry\" abductors and occupiers; this happened in the Indonesian occupation of East Timor and in the Lord's Resistance Army's conflict in Uganda.\n\nRape during war is recognized under United Nations Security Council Resolution 1820 as a war crime and a crime against humanity. \"Forced pregnancy\" is specifically enumerated as a war crime and crime against humanity in the Rome Statute, which was the \"first international criminal tribunal ever officially to criminalize forced pregnancy\".\nChildren born as the result of wartime rape may be identified with the enemy and grow up stigmatized and excluded by their communities; they may be denied basic rights or even killed before reaching adulthood. Children are particularly at risk for such abuse when they are visibly identifiable as sharing half their ethnicity with the occupying forces, as in the case of half-Arab children of Darfuri women raped by janjaweed soldiers as part of the war in Darfur. Children of war rape are also at risk due to neglect by traumatized mothers unable to provide sufficient care.\n\nIn 1937 the Japanese army took over Nanking, which at the time was the capital of China. In the resulting seven-week occupation known as the Rape of Nanking, as many as 80,000 people were raped. Chinese women and girls of all ages were raped, mutilated, tortured, sexually enslaved, and killed; unknown numbers of them were left pregnant. Many pregnant Nanking women killed themselves in 1938, and others committed infanticide when their babies were born. During the rest of the 20th century there was no record of any Chinese woman acknowledging her child as having been born as a result of the Rape of Nanking.\n\nDuring the 1992–95 Bosnian War, pregnancy from rape was used to perpetrate genocide. There were reports of deliberately created \"rape camps\" intended to impregnate captive Muslim and Croatian women. Women were reported to have been kept in confinement until their pregnancies had advanced beyond a stage at which abortion would be safe. In the context of a patrilineal society, in which children inherit their father's ethnicity, such camps were intended to create a new generation of Serbian children. The women's group \"Tresnjevka\" claimed that more than 35,000 women and children were held in such Serb-run camps. Estimates range from 20,000 to 50,000 victims. Feryal Gharahi of Equality Now reported:\n\nAfter the Bosnian War, the International Criminal Court updated its statute to prohibit \"confin[ing] one or more women forcibly made pregnant, with the intent of affecting the ethnic composition of any population\".\n\nImmediate post-rape protocols call \nfor medical professionals to assess the likelihood that a victim will become pregnant in their assessment of the physical damage done to the woman. Protocol for gaining a history of the use of contraceptives, as a woman's use of birth control pills or other contraceptives before a rape affect her chance of becoming pregnant. Treatment protocols also call for clinicians to provide access to emergency contraception and counseling on abortion in countries where it is legal. High-dose estrogen pills were tried as an experimental treatment after rape in the 1960s, and in 1972 Canadian physician A. Albert Yuzpe and his colleagues began systematic studies on the use of ethinylestradiol and norgestrel to provide emergency contraception after an assault. These treatments reduced the rate of pregnancy after rape by 84%. This method is now called the Yuzpe regimen. Before being treated with pregnancy prevention measures, a rape victim is given a HCG pregnancy test to determine whether she was already pregnant before the rape.\n\nWhen being discharged from emergency care, clinicians provide information about pregnancy as well as other complications such as infection and emotional trauma. While a woman who has become pregnant during the past 48 hours will test negative for pregnancy in an HCG pregnancy test (unless she was already pregnant before the rape), pregnancy resulting from the rape can be detected at the two-week follow-up visit.\n\nDecisions of whether to end a rape-related pregnancy or carry it to term, and whether to keep the child or give it up for adoption can be severely traumatizing for a woman.\n\nAbortion rates for pregnancies due to rape vary significantly by culture and demographics; women who live in countries where abortion is illegal must often give birth to the child or secretly undergo a dangerous, back-alley abortion. Some women do not wish to get abortions for religious or cultural reasons. In a third of cases, rape-related pregnancies are not discovered until the second trimester of pregnancy, which may reduce a woman's options, particularly if she doesn't have easy access to legal abortion or is still recovering from the trauma of the rape itself.\n\nIn the United States, 1 percent of 1,900 women questioned in 1987 listed rape or incest as the reason for having an abortion; of these, 95 percent named other reasons as well. \n\nA 1996 study of thousands of US women showed that, of pregnancies resulting from rape, 50% were aborted, 12% resulted in miscarriage, and 38% were brought to term and either given up for adoption or raised. Peer-reviewed studies have reported from 38% of American women to 90% of Peruvian adolescents carrying the pregnancy to term. In Lima, Peru, where abortion is illegal, 90% of girls aged 12 to 16 who became pregnant through rape carried the child to term.\n\nOf all children born, 1% are put up for adoption; the number of children conceived from rape who are given up for adoption was found to be about 6% in one study and 26% in another.\n\nWhen a mother commits neonaticide, killing an infant younger than 24 hours old, the child's birth being the result of rape is a main cause, although other psychological and situational factors are generally present. Some people turn to drugs or alcohol to cope with emotional trauma after a rape; use of these during pregnancy can harm the fetus.\n\nWhen a mother chooses to raise her child conceived in rape, the traumatic effect of the rape and the child's blood relationship to the rapist has the potential to create some psychological challenges, but the circumstance of conception is no guarantee to cause psychological problems.\nIf a woman decides to keep and raise the child, she may have difficulty accepting it, and both mother and child face ostracism in some societies.\nMothers may also face legal difficulties. In most US states, the rapist maintains parental rights. Research by legal scholar Shauna Prewitt indicates that the resulting continued contact with the rapist is damaging for women who keep the child. She wrote in 2012 that in the US, 31 states allow rapists to assert custody and visitation rights over children conceived through rape.\n\nChildren whose births result from rape have been killed by their mothers at various times in history. During ancient and medieval times, such infanticide was not prohibited (however, penance was expected of these mothers in medieval Europe).\n\nIn contrast to the modern scientific consensus that rape-induced pregnancies are no less likely than any other, beliefs that rape could not lead to pregnancy were widespread in both legal and medical opinion for centuries. Galen, an ancient Greek physician, believed that a woman must experience pleasure to release \"seed\" and become pregnant, and could not derive such pleasure from nonconsensual sex. Galen's thinking influenced understanding from medieval England to Colonial America.\nThe Ancient Greek philosopher Aristotle also believed that female pleasure played a central role in conception. Female reproduction was, in many ways, viewed through the lens of male reproductive processes, imagining that female organs functioned as inverted versions of male organs, and hence orgasm was required for conception.\n\nCenturies later, in medieval Europe, the belief that pregnancy could not occur without consent was still standard; in fact, conception by a woman was considered a legitimate defense against charges of rape. The belief was codified in the medieval British law texts \"Fleta\" and \"Britton\". \"Britton\" states:\n\n\"If the defendant confesses the fact, but says that the woman at the same time conceived by him, and can prove it, then our will is that it be adjudged no felony, because no woman can conceive if she does not consent.\"\n\nMedieval literary scholar Corinne Saunders acknowledged a difficulty in determining how widely held was the belief that pregnancy implies consent, but concluded that it influenced \"at least some justices\", citing a 1313 case in Kent.\n\nBy the late 1700s, scientists no longer universally accepted the view that pregnancy was impossible without pleasure, although this view was still common. A 1795 British legal text, \"Treatise of Pleas of the Crown\", disparaged the belief's legal utility and its biological veracity:\n\n\"Also it hath been said by some to be no rape to force a woman who conceives at the time; for it is said, that if she had not consented, she could not have conceived, but this opinion seems very questionable, not only because the previous violence is no way extenuated by such a subsequent consent, but also because, if it were necessary to shew that the woman did not conceive, the offender could not be tried till such time as it might appear whether she did or did not, and likewise because the philosophy of this notion may very well be doubted of.\"\n\nThe 1814 British legal text \"Elements of Medical Jurisprudence\" by Samuel Farr claimed that conception \"probably\" could not occur without a woman's \"enjoyment\", so that an \"absolute rape\" was unlikely to lead to pregnancy. On the other hand, in the US in an 1820 court case in the Arkansas Territory a man pleaded not guilty to rape charges because the victim became pregnant, but the court rejected the argument:\n\n\"The old notion that if the woman conceive, it could not be a rape, because she must have in such case have consented, is quite exploded. Impregnation, it is well known, does not depend on the consciousness or volition of the female. If the uterine organs be in a condition favorable to impregnation, this may take place as readily as if the intercourse was voluntary.\"\n\nHistorian Ian Talbot has written about how countries with Quran-based Islamic codes on rape and pregnancy use Sura An-Nur, verse 2, as a legal basis: \"The law of evidence in all sexual crimes required either self-confession or the testimony of four upright (\"salah\") Muslim males. In the case of a man, self-confession involved a verbal confession. For women however medical examinations and pregnancy arising from rape were admissible as proof of self-guilt.\"\n\nPregnancy from rape is an ethical and moral issue in the context of opposition to legal abortion. In recent decades, claims of the improbability of rape-induced pregnancy, reminiscent of historical beliefs, have again begun to play a role in political discourse surrounding abortion regulation in cases of rape, particularly in the United States.\n\nAmong female victims of partner violence who filed a protective order, 68% reported they were raped by their intimate partner and 20% reported a rape-related pregnancy.\n\nClaims that rape reduces the chance of pregnancy have at times been made by referring to the fact that chronic stress can reduce a woman's fertility over a long term. However the current scientific consensus is that this is specific to long-term stress—the acute stress reaction that occurs during rape cannot \"shut down ovulation that has already begun\". In a 1972 article, physician and anti-abortion activist Fred Mecklenburg argued that pregnancy from rape is \"extremely rare\", adding that a woman exposed to the trauma of rape \"will not ovulate even if she is 'scheduled' to\". Blythe Bernhard wrote in \"The Washington Post\", \"That article has influenced two generations of anti-abortion activists with the hope to build a medical case to ban all abortions without any exception.\" John C. Willke, a former president of the National Right to Life Committee and a general practitioner with training in obstetrics, has published similar statements since 1985. In a 2012 interview he said, \"This is a traumatic thing – she's, shall we say, she's uptight. She is frightened, tight, and so on. And sperm, if deposited in her vagina, are less likely to be able to fertilize. The tubes are spastic.\" These assertions were disputed by a number of gynecology professors. A 1997 book published by the group Human Life International (which opposes legal abortion in all cases, including rape) claims that several studies performed in the 1970s show that only 0.08% of rapes result in pregnancy, and alternatively offers an estimate of 0.8% from other data. The same book dismisses contrary statistics, claiming that \"the women who obtain abortions for 'rape' are almost always lying\".\n\nRelated views have also been expressed by pro-life groups outside the United States. The United Kingdom pro-life group Society for the Protection of Unborn Children similarly claims that rape-pregnancy is \"extremely rare\", in part because the \"trauma of being raped makes it difficult for fertilisation or implantation to occur\". The Irish pro-life group Youth Defence published claims on its web site that \"trauma from the rape may bring into play some natural defence mechanisms that reduce the likelihood of pregnancy\", but removed these statements in 2012 following the Akin controversy, explaining that the group now deemed them \"unreliable\". The Irish group Precious Life published claims that \"the trauma of sexual assault is likely to inhibit ovulation\" and \"the rate of pregnancy arising from sexual assault is 0.1%\". Other groups that say rape prevents ovulation include the Australian group \"Pro-Life Victoria\", and the group \"Pro-Life Philippines\". The Austrian group \"Jugend für das Leben\" (Youth for Life) writes that \"pregnancies after rape are extremely rare\" because \"protective mechanisms\" from the stress of rape will \"almost always prevent conception\".\n\nIn the US, several politicians in the Republican Party have advanced claims that pregnancy from rape is rare. Pennsylvania state representative Stephen Freind claimed in 1988 that the odds of a pregnancy resulting from rape were \"one in millions and millions and millions\". James Leon Holmes published a letter in 1980 stating, \"concern for rape victims is a red herring because conceptions from rape occur with approximately the same frequency as snowfall in Miami\". Holmes apologized for this remark in 2003 after he was nominated as a United States federal judge. (He was confirmed in 2004). In 1995, North Carolina House of Representatives member Henry Aldridge remarked during a debate to eliminate a state abortion fund for poor women: \"The facts show that people who are raped – who are truly raped – the juices don't flow, the body functions don't work and they don't get pregnant. Medical authorities agree that this is a rarity, if ever.\" In 1998, Arkansas state senator Fay Boozman lost a campaign for a US Senate seat after remarking that fear-induced hormonal changes made rape victims unlikely to become pregnant. He later apologized and eventually called the claim a mistake, but the controversy was renewed in 1999 when he was appointed director of the Arkansas Department of Health by then-governor Mike Huckabee. During his campaign in the United States Senate election in Missouri, 2012, US Representative Todd Akin commented on abortion exceptions for rape victims: \"I understand from doctors, that's really rare. If it's a legitimate rape, the female body has ways to try to shut that whole thing down.\" The comment was widely criticized, and Akin apologized, saying he \"misspoke\". Akin's suggestion that rape is unlikely to result in pregnancy was defended by some prominent individuals and groups which oppose legal abortion. A SurveyUSA poll one day after Akin's comments reported that 76% of Missouri adults disagreed with Akin, 13% agreed with the statement and 11% were unsure (±3.8%).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2059957", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2059957", "title": "Profit (real property)", "text": "Profit (real property)\n\nA profit (short for profit-à-prendre in Middle French for \"right of taking\"), in the law of real property, is a nonpossessory interest in land similar to the better-known easement, which gives the holder the right to take natural resources such as petroleum, minerals, timber, and wild game from the land of another. Indeed, because of the necessity of allowing access to the land so that resources may be gathered, every profit contains an implied easement for the owner of the profit to enter the other party's land for the purpose of collecting the resources permitted by the profit.\n\nLike an easement, profits can be created \"expressly\" by an agreement between the property owner and the owner of the profit, or by \"prescription\", where the owner of the profit has made \"open and notorious\" use of the land for a continuous and uninterrupted statutory period.\n\nA profit can be \"appurtenant\" (owned by an adjacent landowner, and tied to the use of the adjacent land) or \"in gross\".\n\nAppurtenant. An appurtenant profit may \"only\" be used by the owner of the adjacent property. A properly recorded profit will remain even if the ownership of the land upon which the profit exists changes hands.\n\nIn Gross. By contrast, a profit \"in gross\" can be assigned or otherwise transferred by its owner. Courts will construe a profit as being in gross unless the profit is expressly designated as being appurtenant. Therefore, profits by prescription will virtually always be profits in gross. Like a commercial easement in gross, a profit in gross is completely alienable. Profits can also be \"exclusive\" (guaranteeing the owner of the profit that no other person will be given the right to collect the specified resources on the land).\n\nTermination of a profit can occur by a number of means, including:\n\nIrish law governs profits by Part 8 of the 2009 Land Act.\n"}
{"id": "31800719", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31800719", "title": "Robert Pepper", "text": "Robert Pepper\n\nRobert M. Pepper Ph. D (born February 10, 1948 in New York City) is a specialist in communications policy.\nPepper received his Bachelor of Arts degree and Ph.D. from the University of Wisconsin–Madison. \n\nPepper held faculty positions at the University of Iowa, Indiana University, and University of Pennsylvania, and was a research affiliate at Harvard University. Following this he was Director of the Annenberg Washington Program in Communications Policy.\n\nHe was subsequently Chief of the Office of Plans and Policy and Chief of Policy Development at the U.S. Federal Communications Commission (FCC), and office now known as OSP. At the FCC, he worked on issues such as implementing telecommunications legislation, planning for the transition to digital television, designing and implementing the first U.S. spectrum auctions. He has also been Acting Associate Administrator at the National Telecommunications and Information Administration (NTIA) and initiator of a program on Computers, Communications and Information Policy at the National Science Foundation.\n\nHe leads Global Connectivity and Technology Policy at Facebook, joining the company in 2016. He was formerly Vice President for Global Technology Policy at Cisco, having joined the company in 2005. He is responsible for the international aspects of the company's advanced technology policy, working in areas such as broadband, IP enabled services, wireless, security and privacy and ICT development.\n\nHe serves on the board of directors of the U.S. Telecommunications Training Institute (USTTI) and the advisory boards for Columbia University and Michigan State University, and is a Communications Program Fellow at the Aspen Institute. He is a member of the U.S. Department of Commerce’s Spectrum Management Advisory Committee, the UK’s Ofcom Spectrum Advisory Board and the U.S. Department of State’s Advisory Committee on International Communications and Information Policy.\n\nIn 2015 he presented the IET prestigious Pinkerton Lecture and the Turing Lecture.\n"}
{"id": "29151374", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29151374", "title": "Saba &amp; Co. IP", "text": "Saba &amp; Co. IP\n\nSaba & Co. Intellectual Property, commonly referred to as Saba IP, is a leading intellectual property firm committed to safeguarding clients’ intellectual property rights across the Middle East and Africa. Saba IP’s services include trademark prosecution, trademark search, patent registration, litigation, IP enforcement, legal and technical translation, and copyright services.\n\nSaba IP has been catering to clients since the firm’s establishment in 1926 and is active in all areas of counseling, prosecution, litigation, licensing, and translation.\nThe Firm was founded by Fuad S. Saba in August 1926 after completing his education at the American University of Beirut. Saba & Co., as the firm was previously known, began as an auditing firm based in Jaffa Street, Jerusalem. The ‘30s and ‘40s witnessed the expansion of Saba’s network of operation with the establishment of offices in Lebanon, Egypt, Jordan, Syria, Iraq, and Kuwait. In 1948, the Head Office was relocated to Beirut, Lebanon, where it is still located today in the upscale suburbs of Hazmieh.\nAlongside geographic expansions, the Firm also broadened its services. Fuad S. Saba, his partners, and their successors, introduced services such as tax consultation, and arbitrations, together with a trademark and patent department. The TMP department grew significantly over the years and resulted in the formation of Saba & Co. Intellectual Property.\n\nThe Firm consults clients on intellectual property rights counseling, prosecution, and enforcement and litigation. Saba IP also offers a wide selection of commercial IP services that include due diligence, licensing and franchising, translation, domain name registration, brand valuation, food and drug administration compliance, and company formation.\n\nSaba IP has an extensive network of branch and representative offices across the Middle East, Africa, and their neighboring regions. These jurisdictions cover Algeria, Bahrain, Cyprus, Egypt, Gaza, Iraq, Jordan, Kuwait, Lebanon, Libya, Morocco, Oman, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Sudan, Syria, UAE, West Bank, and Yemen. Saba IP also maintains representatives in Turkey, India, Iran and Pakistan.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19760876", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19760876", "title": "Siruv", "text": "Siruv\n\nA shtar siruv (also spelled seruv) is a form of contempt of court order issued by a \"beth din\" (rabbinical court) in an effort to compel action by an individual.\n\nThe \"siruv\" has been described as a form of \"cherem\" (which combines characteristics of shunning or excommunication) for a party who refuses to appear before a beth din. Under the terms of a \"siruv\", the individual is to be shunned by the community until the terms of the order issued by the \"beth din\" are addressed. While most Jewish litigants are adjured from pursuing justice against other Jews in the civil court system, in the case of a \"siruv\", the \"beth din\" may permit use of the secular courts by the plaintiff.\n\nIn 1993, the Rabbinical Council of America (RCA), one of the world's largest organizations of Orthodox rabbis, issued a resolution regarding spouses who refuse to comply with a \"beth din\" in the issuance of a \"get\" (the formal divorce document presented by a husband to his wife to terminate their marriage under Jewish law). Synagogues of RCA members were encouraged to formulate procedures under which a spouse under a \"siruv\" regarding their failure to comply with issuance of a \"get\" would be excluded from membership, employment, elective and appointed positions in the synagogue; would be excluded from being called to the \"Torah\" or lead services. Synagogues would announce the non-compliant individual's name monthly after \"shabbat\" services and would publish the person's name in its bulletin, including a call to others to \"limit their social and economic relations to such persons.\"\n"}
{"id": "18899213", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18899213", "title": "Stanton v. Stanton", "text": "Stanton v. Stanton\n\nStanton v. Stanton, 421 U.S. 7 (1975), is a United States Supreme Court case which struck down Utah's definitions of adulthood as a violation of equal protection: females reached adulthood at 18; males at 21.\n\nThe case had started in Utah state court. A divorced father stopped paying child support for his daughter when she turned eighteen, so the daughter's mother went to court to ask for support until both the daughter and the son reached twenty-one. Utah divorce court ruled against the mother, and the Utah Supreme Court held that there was a \"reasonable basis\" for the differential: women matured earlier and married younger; men had a greater need for education. The Utah court stated in its opinion that the basis for the law, though an \"old notion,\" was not unconstitutional.\n\nJustice Blackmun wrote for the majority. He found a violation of equal protection and said the law failed under any standard, including rational basis (the Supreme Court's lowest standard of review). The decision remained in the context of child support, without considering different ages for males and females in other contexts.\n\nThe \"Stanton\" decision placed the Court on record as declaring that society's stereotypes were not a legitimate basis for official policies that treated men and women differently.\n\nBlackmun wrote: \"A child, male or female, is still a child... No longer is the female destined solely for the home and the rearing of the family, and only the male for the marketplace and the world of ideas... If a specified age of minority is required for the boy in order to assure him parental support while he attains his education and training, so, too, is it for the girl.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "2818098", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2818098", "title": "Tin coinage", "text": "Tin coinage\n\nIn Devon and Cornwall, tin coinage was a tax on refined tin, payable to the Duchy of Cornwall and administered in the Stannary Towns. The oldest surviving records of coinage show that it was collected in 1156. It was abolished by the Tin Duties Act 1838.\n"}
{"id": "3461221", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3461221", "title": "Treebog", "text": "Treebog\n\nA treebog is a type of low-tech compost toilet. It consists of a raised platform above a compost pile surrounded by densely planted willow trees or other nutrient-hungry vegetation. It can be considered an example of permaculture design, as it functions as a system for converting urine and feces to biomass, without the need to handle excreta. \n\nThe term \"treebog\" was coined Jay Abrahams of Biologic Design. \"Bog\" is a British English slang word for toilet, not to be confused with its other meaning of wetland.\n\nThe treebog is a simple method of composting wastes. Abrahams claims that from 1995-2011, around 1500 treebogs may have been built in Britain. They have been on sites ranging from fruit farms, pick-your-own enterprises, campsites, an angling lake, festival sites, remote/low impact dwellings, holiday cottages, allotments, and church yards where there is no mains water supply.\n\nIn 2011, Abrahams claimed that the treebog had attracted the attention of NGOs and aid workers who hope to develop its potential for shanty towns or refugee camps - anywhere that water is scarce and the population pressure on resources is high.\n\nA treebog is simply a controlled compost heap whose function has been enhanced by use of moisture or nutrient-hungry trees. They use no water, purify waste as they create a biomass resource, and also contain the organic waste material, thus preventing the spread of disease.\n\nThe main requirement is that the planted species should be nutrient-hungry. It is a bonus if they can be harvested or coppiced for productive uses, e.g. willow cultivars. Apart from willow coppice, soft fruit such as black currants and sweet-smelling herbs such as mint will thrive around a treebog. If left unmanaged, a treebog will soon be surrounded by weed species such as nettles, but a little management and conscious planting can create a fertile and productive bog garden.\n\nBoth the solids and liquids are deposited within the treebog base, where the solids compost and the liquids soak through the soil. The associated dense root zone enables the nitrogen to be rapidly absorbed and metabolized by the mycorhyzal species. The feces are contained within the treebog base, which is well ventilated to allow aerobic decomposition to occur, the mineralized material feeding the trees around it. \n\nA seating platform/cubicle is mounted at least one meter high. The area beneath the seating platform is enclosed by a double-layer of chicken wire; this acts as an effective child-proof barrier and allows air to circulate through the compost heap.This allows for optimum plant growing conditions.\n\nSawdust, straw, woodchip, ash or other high-carbon matter is used to balance the high-nitrogen content of the urine. One design used Effective Micro-organism bran, which helped keep the treebog virtually odour free.\n\nThe space between the wire is stuffed with straw, which acts as a wick to help sop up excess urine, preventing the likelihood of odour problems due to incomplete biological absorption of the nitrogen from the urine. The straw-filled wire also enables the pile to be well-aerated whilst acting as a visual screen for the first year’s use.\n\nThe structure is surrounded by two closely planted rows of osier or biomass willow cuttings; this living wall of willow can then be woven into a hurdle-like structure and its annual growth can be harvested.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13867795", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13867795", "title": "Trial consulting", "text": "Trial consulting\n\nTrial consulting is the use of social scientists, particularly psychologists and communication experts and economists, to aid attorneys in the presentation of a criminal trial or civil lawsuit. Modern trial consultants help prepare witnesses, improve arguments and rhetoric, and select juries.\n\nAlthough traditionally sophisticated jury selection methods were a mainstay of trial consultants, they now \"place far less emphasis on jury selection than they did in the past\", and many in the field now prefer the term \"trial consulting\" to \"jury consulting\". Since many cases are now settled out of court or decided by arbitration, some trial consulting firms have diversified to include mock mediation and arbitration sessions. This is also the reason that many jury/trial consultants are now referring to themselves as \"litigation consultants\".\n\nThe traditional mainstays of trial consulting remain important. They include witness preparation, shadow juries, mock trials, focus groups, community attitude surveys, and expert assistance with trial presentation.\n\n"}
{"id": "2065003", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2065003", "title": "Triple play (telecommunications)", "text": "Triple play (telecommunications)\n\nIn telecommunications, triple play service is a marketing term for the provisioning, over a single broadband connection, of two bandwidth-intensive services, broadband Internet access and television, and the latency-sensitive telephone. Triple play focuses on a supplier convergence rather than solving technical issues or a common standard. However, standards like G.hn might deliver all these services on a common technology.\n\nA so-called quadruple play (or quad play) service integrates mobility as well, often by supporting dual mode mobile plus hotspot-based phones that shift from GSM to Wi-Fi when they come in range of a home wired for triple-play service. Typical Generic Access Network services of this kind, such as Rogers Home Calling Zone (Rogers is an incumbent in the Canadian market), allow the caller to enter and leave the range of their home Wi-Fi network, and only pay GSM rates for the time they spend outside the range. Calls at home are routed over the IP network and paid at a flat rate per month. No interruption or authorization for the shift is required—soft handoff takes place automatically as many times as the caller enters or leaves the range.\n\nBy about 2000, cable TV companies were in a technical position to offer \"triple play\" over one physical medium to a large number of their customers, as their networks already had sufficient bandwidth to carry hundreds of video channels. Cable's main competition for television in North America came from satellites, which could not compete for voice and interactive broadband due to the latency imposed by physical laws on a geosynchronous satellite—sometimes up to one full second of delay between speaking and being heard. Cable's main competition for voice and Internet access came from telcos, which were not yet able to compete for television in most markets because DSL over most local loops could not provide enough bandwidth.\n\nAs an interim marketing move while they installed fiber closer to the customer, telcos such as AT&T did co-promotion deals with satellite TV providers to sell television, telephone, and Internet access services bundled for billing purposes, although the services provided through a satellite link and the services provided through a phone line are not technically related. Telcos that own wireless phone networks also included those as part of such billing-only bundles because most cable companies do not own wireless networks.\n\nThe first triple-play deployment was by Italian operator Fastweb in 2001, using fibre to the home service and one of the first triple-play home gateway devices with embedded fibre termination. This enabled the operator to deliver voice, video, and data services to subscribers’ homes via its 10 MB SDSL network. This approach, known as Point-to-Point Protocol over Ethernet. This FTTH architecture brought the operator the best ARPU in the industry for a number of consecutive years.\n\nTriple-play services in the United States are offered by cable television operators as well as by telecommunication operators, who directly compete with one another. Providers expect that an integrated solution will increase opportunity costs for customers who may want to choose between service providers, permit more cross-selling, and hold off the power companies deploying G.hn and IEEE P1901 technology with its radically superior service and deployment characteristics for at least another decade or so.\n\nOutside the United States, notably in Ecuador, Pakistan, India, Japan, and China, power companies have generally been more successful in leapfrogging legacy technologies. In Switzerland and Sweden, dark fiber is available reliably to homes at tariffed rates (in Switzerland four dark fibres are deployed to each home) supporting speeds in excess of 40 Gbit/s—only to the local caches, however, as backhaul cannot typically support more than 10 Mbit/s connections to global services.\n\nSince 2007, access providers in Italy have been participating in an initiative called Fiber for Italy, which aims to build an infrastructure that can deliver 100 Mbit/s symmetrical bandwidth to consumers, in order to enable the delivery of triple- and quad-play services.\n\nOther triple-play deployments include Deutsche Telekom, Vmedia, Telecom Italia, Swisscom, Telekom Austria, and Telus.\n\nThere are multiple and intense regulatory battles over triple-play services, as incumbent telcos and incumbent cable operators attempt to keep out new competitors; since both industries historically have been regulated monopolies, regulatory capture has long been as much a core competency for them as have been prices and terms of service. Cable providers want to compete with telcos for local voice service, but want to discourage telcos from competing with them for television service. Incumbent telcos want to deliver television service but want to block competition for voice service from cable operators. Both industries cloak their demands for favorable regulatory treatment in claims that their positions favor the public interests.\n\nIn March 2007 cable operators scored a major victory when the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) overruled two state public service commissions by ruling that incumbent local exchange carriers must connect to VoIP services . Regulators in South Carolina and Nebraska had been allowing local telcos to block Time Warner Cable from offering local phone service in their states. In the other direction, also in March 2007, the FCC limited the powers of municipalities and states over telcos that want to compete with cable TV companies. Consumer groups expressed displeasure with this FCC ruling because they fear telcos will only offer service to the richest neighborhoods, which is a major point of contention between telcos wanting to offer television service and local governments is that local governments typically impose \"build-out\" and community access requirements so a cable provider is forced to wire the entire town within a specified period of time. All three Republican members of the FCC voted for this decision, while both Democratic members voted against it and one predicted either U.S. Congress or the courts would overturn it. In October 2007, The \"Hartford Courant\" reported that Connecticut regulators have ordered AT&T to stop signing up new customers for its IPTV service until they got a cable license; AT&T said they would fight this decision in court .\n\nFor telephone local exchange carriers (LEC), \"triple play\" is delivered using a combination of optical fiber and digital subscriber line (DSL) technologies (called fiber in the loop) to its residential base. This configuration uses fiber communications to reach distant locations and uses DSL over an existing POTS twisted pair cable as last mile access to the subscriber's home. Cable television operators use a similar architecture called hybrid fibre coaxial (HFC) to provide subscriber homes with broadband, but use the available coaxial cable rather than a twisted pair for the last mile transmission standard. Subscriber homes can be in a residential environment, multi-dwelling units, or even in business offices.\n\nUsing DSL over twisted pair, television content is delivered using IPTV where the content is streamed to the subscriber in an MPEG-2 transport format. On an HFC network, television may be a mixture of analog and digital television signals. A set-top box (STB) is used at the subscriber's home to allow the susbcriber to control viewing and order new video services such as \"movies on demand\". Access to the Internet is provided through ATM or DOCSIS, typically provided as an Ethernet port to the subscriber. Voice service can be provided using a traditional plain old telephone service (POTS) interface as part of the legacy telephone network or can be delivered using voice over IP (VoIP). In an HFC network, voice is delivered using VoIP.\n\nSome service providers are also rolling out Ethernet to the home networks and fiber to the home, which support triple-play services and bypass the disadvantages of adapting broadband transmission to a legacy network. This is particularly common in greenfield developments where the capital expenditure is reduced by deploying one network to deliver all services.\n\nFor existing multiple-dwelling-unit (MDU) buildings, where running fiber to each unit may not be feasible, telcos often use VDSL to connect individual units over existing copper through a central optical network terminal located in the existing telco closet. Over such a short distance, DSL can deliver much higher bitrates than is possible running DSL over the local loop from the nearest central office (as is common with basic DSL).\n\n\"Triple play\" has led to the term \"quadruple play\", where wireless communications is introduced as another medium to deliver video, Internet access, and voice telephone service. Advances in both CDMA and GSM standards, utilizing 3G, 4G, or UMTS allows the service operators to enter into quadruple play and gain competitive advantage against other providers. The grouping together of services (as triple or quadruple play) is called multi-play.\n\nOther advanced technologies such as WiMax or 802.16 has allowed new market entrants to achieve triple play. Many speculate that this means serious, new competition for established providers of bundled telecommunications services.\n\nThese services can be delivered with a BPL network using technologies such as IEEE P1901/G.hn. Since the devices all rely on AC power (or DC power via 802.3af or 802.3at which rely on AC power at the PoE hub), connecting them with only one cable each for both power and gigabit data cuts wiring costs, and most rooms are already wired for power.\n\nThe challenges in offering \"triple play\" are mostly associated with determining the right business model, backend processes, customer care support, and economic environment, rather than technology. For example, using the right billing platform to address a variety of subscriber demographics or having the appropriate subscriber density to financially justify introduction of the service are a few factors that affect decisions to offer triple play.\n\nIn addition to the challenges mentioned above, there are a number of technical challenges with regards to the rollout of triple-play services. Voice, video, and high-speed data all have different characteristics and place different burdens on the network that provides access to these services. Voice services are greatly affected by jitter, whereas packet loss has a greater effect on video and data services. In order to use a shared network resource such as cable or DSL, the service provider may use network equipment that employs quality-of-service mechanisms to adjust to the requirements of the different services.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53654436", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53654436", "title": "UN Declaration on the Elimination of All Forms of Intolerance and of Discrimination Based on Religion or Belief", "text": "UN Declaration on the Elimination of All Forms of Intolerance and of Discrimination Based on Religion or Belief\n\nThe UN Declaration on the Elimination of All Forms of Intolerance and of Discrimination Based on Religion or Belief is a United Nations resolution, passed on November 25 1981. It outlined human rights regarding the freedom of religion.\n"}
{"id": "30978798", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30978798", "title": "United States Fish and Wildlife Service Office of Law Enforcement", "text": "United States Fish and Wildlife Service Office of Law Enforcement\n\nThe United States Fish and Wildlife Service Office of Law Enforcement contributes to Service efforts to manage ecosystems, save endangered species, conserve migratory birds, preserve wildlife habitat, restore fisheries, combat invasive species, and promote international wildlife conservation.\n\nThe Office of Law Enforcement focuses on potentially devastating threats to wildlife resource-illegal trade, unlawful commercial exploitation, habitat destruction, and environmental contaminants. The Office of Law Enforcement investigates wildlife crimes, regulates wildlife trade, helps Americans understand and obey wildlife protections laws, and works in partnership with international, state, and tribal counterparts to conserve wildlife resources. This work includes:\n\n\nDistributing information and outreach materials to increase public understanding of wildlife conservation and promote compliance with wildlife protection laws.\n\nIn order to become a FWS Special Agent, an applicant must be between the ages of 23 and 37. However, due to the decision in \"Robert P. Isabella v. Department of State and Office of Personnel Management\", 2008 M.S.P.B. 146, preference eligible veterans may apply after age 37. In 2009, the Office of Personnel Management issued implementation guidance on the Isabella decision: OPM Letter The applicant must also hold American citizenship, have a clean record, and hold a four-year bachelor's degree. In addition, all special agents are required to sign a mobility agreement which indicates a willingness to accept a reassignment to any location as dictated by the needs of the Service.\n\nNew special agents attend the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center at Glynco, Georgia for 18 weeks of training. This training includes comprehensive courses in protective techniques, criminal law, use of special investigative equipment, use of firearms, and defensive measures. Rules of evidence, surveillance techniques, undercover operations, and courtroom demeanor are also studied. Classroom study is supplemented with on-the-job training when agents report to their assigned field stations. As agents in training, they assist in carrying out surveillance activities, participating in raids, interviewing witnesses and suspects, searching for physical evidence and clues, seizing contraband, and serving search warrants. The emphasis on training and the vast experience they gain make U.S. Fish & Wildlife Service Special Agents among the best wildlife law enforcement professionals in the world.\n\nWhen fully staffed, the Office of Law Enforcement includes 261 special agents and 122 wildlife inspectors. Most are \"officers on the beat\" who report through eight regional law enforcement offices. A headquarters Office of Law Enforcement provides national oversight, support, policy, and guidance for Service investigations and the wildlife inspection program; trains Service law enforcement personnel; fields a special investigations unit; and provides budget, management and administrative support for the Office of Law Enforcement.\n\nThe Clark R. Bavin National Fish and Wildlife Forensic Laboratory conducts scientific analyses that support federal, state, and international investigations of wildlife crime. The Office of Law Enforcement also maintains a National Wildlife Property Repository, which supplies abandoned and forfeited wildlife items to schools, universities, museums, and non-government organizations for public education, and operates the National Eagle Repository, which meets the needs of Native Americans for eagles and eagle feathers for religious use.\n\nThe National Eagle and Wildlife Property Repository, near Denver, Colorado stores in a 16,000-square-foot (1,486 square meters) warehouse 1.5 million specimens, mainly products made from endangered animals: tiger, rhinoceros, sea turtle, crocodile and elephant. A row of shelves 50 feet long and 10 feet high stores the hides and mounted heads of big cat: cheetah, tiger, jaguar, margay, ocelot and leopard. An objective of the server is assuring the U.S. complies with the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora. The treaty regulates wildlife commerce to assure the survival of threatened species. The specimens in the repository were seized in customs searches at U.S. ports of entry or being trafficked across state lines. The facility develops educational programs about wildlife trade, endangered species, and conservation laws.\n\nThe current Chief of Law Enforcement for the US Fish and Wildlife Service is William Woody.\n\nSpecial Agents enforce laws regarding the conservation and preservation of many plant and animal species throughout the United States and being brought into the country from elsewhere. Special Agents primarily focus on the enforcement of the following federal laws: \n\nThe Office of Law Enforcement is Headquartered in Falls Church, Virginia. In addition, there are eight regional offices that serve different geographical regions of the U.S.\n\nIn Operation Chameleon the FWS undertook action against several internationally operating reptile smuggling networks. The investigations led to several convictions.\n\nIn her book, \"Hunt for Justice\", retired Special Agent Lucinda Schroeder details the Service's undercover program to arrest and convict Alaskan hunting guides who were conducting illegal hunts in Alaska's northern Brooks Range.\n\n"}
{"id": "170634", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=170634", "title": "Wabi-sabi", "text": "Wabi-sabi\n\nIn traditional Japanese aesthetics, is a world view centered on the acceptance of transience and imperfection. The aesthetic is sometimes described as one of beauty that is \"imperfect, impermanent, and incomplete\". It is a concept derived from the Buddhist teaching of the , specifically , and .\n\nCharacteristics of the \"wabi-sabi\" aesthetic include asymmetry, roughness, simplicity, economy, austerity, modesty, intimacy, and appreciation of the ingenuous integrity of natural objects and processes.\n\nAccording to Leonard Koren, \"wabi-sabi\" can be defined as \"the most conspicuous and characteristic feature of traditional Japanese beauty and it occupies roughly the same position in the Japanese pantheon of aesthetic values as do the Greek ideals of beauty and perfection in the far West.\" Whereas Andrew Juniper notes that \"If an object or expression can bring about, within us, a sense of serene melancholy and a spiritual longing, then that object could be said to be wabi-sabi.\" For Richard Powell, \"Wabi-sabi nurtures all that is authentic by acknowledging three simple realities: nothing lasts, nothing is finished, and nothing is perfect.\"\n\nThe words \"wabi\" and \"sabi\" do not translate easily. \"Wabi\" originally referred to the loneliness of living in nature, remote from society; \"sabi\" meant \"chill\", \"lean\" or \"withered\". Around the 14th century these meanings began to change, taking on more positive connotations. \"Wabi\" now connotes rustic simplicity, freshness or quietness, and can be applied to both natural and human-made objects, or understated elegance. It can also refer to quirks and anomalies arising from the process of construction, which add uniqueness and elegance to the object. \"Sabi\" is beauty or serenity that comes with age, when the life of the object and its impermanence are evidenced in its patina and wear, or in any visible repairs.\n\nAfter centuries of incorporating artistic and Buddhist influences from China, wabi-sabi eventually evolved into a distinctly Japanese ideal. Over time, the meanings of \"wabi\" and \"sabi\" shifted to become more lighthearted and hopeful. Around 700 years ago, particularly among the Japanese nobility, understanding emptiness and imperfection was honored as tantamount to the first step to satori, or enlightenment. In today's Japan, the meaning of wabi-sabi is often condensed to \"wisdom in natural simplicity\". In art books, it is typically defined as \"flawed beauty\".\n\nFrom an engineering or design point of view, \"wabi\" may be interpreted as the imperfect quality of any object, due to inevitable limitations in design and construction/manufacture especially with respect to unpredictable or changing usage conditions; then \"sabi\" could be interpreted as the aspect of imperfect reliability, or limited mortality of any object, hence the phonological and etymological connection with the Japanese word sabi, . Although the kanji characters for \"rust\" is not the same in \"wabi-sabi\", the original spoken word (pre-kanji, \"yamato-kotoba\") is believed to be one and the same.\n\nA good example of this embodiment may be seen in certain styles of Japanese pottery. In the Japanese tea ceremony, the pottery items used are often rustic and simple-looking, e.g. Hagi ware, with shapes that are not quite symmetrical, and colors or textures that appear to emphasize an unrefined or simple style. In fact, it is up to the knowledge and observational ability of the participant to notice and discern the hidden signs of a truly excellent design or glaze (akin to the appearance of a diamond in the rough). This may be interpreted as a kind of wabi-sabi aesthetic, further confirmed by the way the colour of glazed items is known to change over time as hot water is repeatedly poured into them (\"sabi\") and the fact that tea bowls are often deliberately chipped or nicked at the bottom (\"wabi\"), which serves as a kind of signature of the \"Hagi-yaki\" style.\n\n\"Wabi\" and \"sabi\" both suggest sentiments of desolation and solitude. In the Mahayana Buddhist view of the universe, these may be viewed as positive characteristics, representing liberation from a material world and transcendence to a simpler life. Mahayana philosophy itself, however, warns that genuine understanding cannot be achieved through words or language, so accepting wabi-sabi on nonverbal terms may be the most appropriate approach. Simon Brown notes that wabi-sabi describes a means whereby students can learn to live life through the senses and better engage in life as it happens, rather than be caught up in unnecessary thoughts. In this sense wabi-sabi is the material representation of Zen Buddhism. The idea is that being surrounded by natural, changing, unique objects helps us connect to our real world and escape potentially stressful distractions.\n\nIn one sense wabi-sabi is a training whereby the student of wabi-sabi learns to find the most basic, natural objects interesting, fascinating and beautiful. Fading autumn leaves would be an example. Wabi-sabi can change our perception of the world to the extent that a chip or crack in a vase makes it more interesting and gives the object greater meditative value. Similarly materials that age such as bare wood, paper and fabric become more interesting as they exhibit changes that can be observed over time.\n\nThe \"wabi\" and \"sabi\" concepts are religious in origin, but actual usage of the words in Japanese is often quite casual because of the syncretic nature of Japanese belief.\n\nMany Japanese arts over the past thousand years have been influenced by Zen and Mahayana philosophy, particularly acceptance and contemplation of the imperfection, constant flux and impermanence of all things. Such arts can exemplify a wabi-sabi aesthetic. Examples include:\n\nA contemporary Japanese appraisal of this concept is found in the influential essay \"In Praise of Shadows\" by Jun'ichirō Tanizaki.\n\nDesigner Leonard Koren (born 1948) in 1994 published \"Wabi-Sabi for Artists, Designers, Poets & Philosophers\" as an examination of wabi-sabi, contrasting it with Western ideals of beauty. According to Penelope Green, Koren's book subsequently \"became a talking point for a wasteful culture intent on penitence and a touchstone for designers of all stripes.\"\n\nPotter Bernard Leach (1887–1979) was deeply influenced by Japanese aesthetics and techniques and founded an influential European aesthetic movement which also included Dame Lucy Rie and Hans Coper.\n\nSome haiku in English adapt the wabi-sabi aesthetic, with spare, minimalist poems that evoke loneliness and transience, such as Nick Virgilio's \"autumn twilight:/ the wreath on the door/ lifts in the wind\".\n\nThe work of American artist John Connell (born 1940) is centered on the idea of wabi.\n\nFormer Stuckist artist and remodernist filmmaker Jesse Richards (born 1975) employs it in nearly all of his work, along with mono no aware.\n\nDuring the 1990s the concept was borrowed by computer software developers and employed in Agile programming and Wiki to describe acceptance of the state of ongoing imperfection that is the product of these methods.\n\nOn 16 March 2009, Marcel Theroux presented \"In Search of Wabi Sabi\" on BBC Four as part of the channel's \"Hidden Japan\" season of programming. Theroux traveled throughout Japan trying to understand the aesthetic tastes of its people, beginning by comically enacting a challenge from the book \"Living Wabi Sabi\" by Taro Gold to \"ask people on a Tokyo street to describe Wabi Sabi.\" Theroux showed that, just as Gold predicted, \"they will likely give you a polite shrug and explain that Wabi Sabi is simply unexplainable.\" \n\nJack Dorsey, the billionaire founder of Twitter and Square, promotes the Wabi-sabi philosophy of design.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "369251", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=369251", "title": "Worshipful Company of Stationers and Newspaper Makers", "text": "Worshipful Company of Stationers and Newspaper Makers\n\nThe Worshipful Company of Stationers and Newspaper Makers (until 1937 the Worshipful Company of Stationers), usually known as the Stationers' Company, is one of the livery companies of the City of London. The Stationers' Company was formed in 1403; it received a royal charter in 1557. It held a monopoly over the publishing industry and was officially responsible for setting and enforcing regulations until the enactment of the Statute of Anne, also known as the Copyright Act of 1710. Once the company received its charter, “the company’s role was to regulate and discipline the industry, define proper conduct and maintain its own corporate privileges.”\n\nThe company members, including master, wardens, assistants, liverymen, freemen and apprentices) are mostly involved with the modern visual and graphic communications industries that have evolved from the company's original trades. These include printing, papermaking, packaging, office products, engineering, advertising, design, photography, film and video production, publishing of books, newspapers and periodicals and digital media. The Company's principal purpose nowadays is to provide an independent forum where its members can advance the interests (strategic, educational, training and charitable) of the industries associated with the Company.\n\nIn 1403, the Corporation of London approved the formation of a guild of stationers. At this time, the occupations considered stationers for the purposes of the guild were text writers, lymners (illuminators), bookbinders or booksellers who worked at a fixed location (\"stationarius\") beside the walls of St Paul's Cathedral. Booksellers sold manuscript books, or copies thereof produced by their respective firms for retail; they also sold writing materials. Illuminators illustrated and decorated manuscripts.\n\nPrinting gradually displaced manuscript production so that, by the time the guild received a Royal Charter of Incorporation on 4 May 1557, it had in effect become a printers' guild. In 1559, it became the 47th in city livery company precedence. At the time, it was based at Peter's College, which it bought from St Paul's Cathedral. During the Tudor and Stuart periods, the Stationers were legally empowered to seize \"offending books\" that violated the standards of content set down by the Church and state; its officers could bring \"offenders\" before ecclesiastical authorities, usually the Bishop of London or the Archbishop of Canterbury, depending on the severity of the transgression. Thus the Stationers played an important role in the culture of England as it evolved through the intensely turbulent decades of the Protestant Reformation and toward the English Civil War.\n\nThe Stationers' Charter, which codified its monopoly on book production, ensured that once a member had asserted ownership of a text or \"copy\", no other member was entitled to publish it, that is, no one else had the \"right to copy\" it. This is the origin of the term \"copyright\". However, this original \"right to copy\" in England was different from the modern conception of copyright. The stationers' \"copy right\" was a protection granted to the printers of a book; \"copyright\" introduced with the Statute of Anne, or the Copyright Act of 1710, was a right granted to the author(s) of a book based on statutory law. \n\nMembers of the company asserted their ownership of a work by entering it in the \"entry book of copies\" or the Stationers' Company Register. The Register of the Stationers' Company became one of the most essential documentary records in the later study of English Renaissance theatre. (In 1606 the Master of the Revels, who was responsible for licensing the performance of plays rather than their publication, acquired some overlapping authority over publication as well; but the Stationers' Register remained a crucial and authoritative source of information after that date too.) To be sure, enforcement of the rules was always a challenge, in this area as in other aspects of the Tudor/Stuart regime; and plays and other works were sometimes printed surreptitiously and illegally.\n\nIn 1603, the Stationers formed the \"English Stock\", a joint stock publishing company funded by shares held by members of the Company. This profitable business gained many patents of which the richest was for almanacks including Old Moore's Almanack. The business employed out-of-work printers and disbursed some of the profit to the poor.\n\nIn 1606, the Company bought Abergavenny House in Ave Maria Lane and moved out of Peter's College. The new hall burnt down in the Great Fire of 1666 along with books to the value of about £40,000. It was rebuilt and its present interior is much as it was when it reopened in 1673. The Court Room was added in 1748 and in 1800 the external façade was remodelled to its present form.\n\nIn 1695, the monopoly power of the Stationers' Company was diminished, and in 1710 Parliament passed the Copyright Act 1709, the first copyright act.\n\nThe Company established the Stationers' Company's School at Bolt Court, Fleet Street in 1861 for the education of sons of members of the Company. In 1894, the school moved to Hornsey in north London. It closed in 1983.\n\nRegistration under the Copyright Act 1911 ended in December 1923; the Company then established a voluntary register in which copyrights could be recorded to provide printed proof of ownership in case of disputes.\n\nIn 1937, a Royal Charter amalgamated the Stationers' Company and the Newspaper Makers' Company, which had been founded six years earlier (and whose members were predominant in Fleet Street), into the Company of the present name.\n\nThe Company's motto is \"Verbum Domini manet in aeternum\", Latin for \"The Word of the Lord endures forever\".\n\nStationers' Hall is at Ave Maria Lane near Ludgate Hill. The site of the present hall was formerly the site of Abergavenny House, which was purchased by the Stationers in 1606 for £3,500, but destroyed in the Great Fire of London, 1666. The current building and hall date from \"circa\" 1670. The hall was remodelled in 1800 by the architect Robert Mylne and, on 4 January 1950, it was designated a Grade I listed building.\n\nStationers' Hall has hosted the Shine School Media Awards, where students compete in the creation of websites and magazines.\n\n\n\n\n"}
