{"id": "6079498", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6079498", "title": "2000 California Proposition 36", "text": "2000 California Proposition 36\n\nCalifornia Proposition 36, the Substance Abuse and Crime Prevention Act of 2000, was an initiative statute that permanently changed state law to allow qualifying defendants convicted of non-violent drug possession offenses to receive a probationary sentence in lieu of incarceration. As a condition of probation defendants are required to participate in and complete a licensed and/or certified community drug treatment program. If the defendant fails to complete this program or violates any other term or condition of their probation, then probation can be revoked and the defendant may be required to serve an additional sentence which may include incarceration.\nThe proposition was passed with 6,233,422 (60.86%) votes in favor and 4,009,508 (39.14%) against on November 7, 2000 and went into effect on July 1, 2001 with $120 million for treatment services allocated annually for five years. The act is codified in sections 1210 and 3063.1 of the California Penal Code and Division 10.8 of the California Health and Safety Code.\n\nNot all defendants convicted of a non-violent drug possession offense are eligible for probation and treatment under Prop 36. Subdivision (b) of section 1210.1 of the California Penal Code deems the following defendants ineligible for the program:\n\n\nFormer Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger was critical of Proposition 36 because many in the program fail to complete treatment. About 34 percent of drug offenders complete treatment. Schwarzenegger attempted to modify the proposition by enacting Senate Bill 1137. The bill would have given judges the power to sentence jail time for a brief period to drug offenders who relapsed. Proposition 36 supporters objected to the changes and an Alameda County court ordered an injunction on the reforms. Senate Bill 1137 did not go into effect.\n\nProp 36 is not retroactive, meaning that defendants who had to attend unlicensed drug rehabs prior to Prop 36 and the Drug Courts are not afforded the opportunity to have their cases reheard in court. Prop 36 and the Drug Courts have discontinued the use of unlicensed rehabs as sentencing tools, due to concerns that unlicensed treatment could be unethical. Many drug offenders who had used use unlicensed rehabs had been abused and are unable to appeal past convictions due to the formation of the Drug Courts. Unlicensed rehabs are no longer used, but people who relied on them are not afforded any of Prop 36's protection. If Prop 36's benefits had been extended retroactively, these people would have received them; at present, they do not.\n\nThe University of California, Los Angeles, which was chosen to run the required evaluation of Proposition 36, has issued three annual reports on the implementation and impact of the program since 2003. These reports provide data and analysis that help state legislators determine the future of the program each year.\nA UCLA study released in April 2006 showed Proposition 36 is saving taxpayers $2.50 for every $1 invested. According to the Drug Policy Alliance, total savings for taxpayers over the past five years total $1.4 billion. Another UCLA study found that convicted drug users had become more likely to be arrested on new drug charges since the proposition took effect\n\n\n"}
{"id": "752751", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=752751", "title": "Arthur Rudolph", "text": "Arthur Rudolph\n\nArthur Louis Hugo Rudolph (November 9, 1906 – January 1, 1996) was a German rocket engineer who was a leader of the effort to develop the V-2 rocket for Nazi Germany. After World War II, the United States Government's Office of Strategic Services (OSS) brought him to the U.S. as part of the clandestine Operation Paperclip, where he became one of the main developers of the U.S. space program. He worked within the U.S. Army and NASA, where he managed the development of several systems, including the Pershing missile and the Saturn V Moon rocket. In 1984, the U.S. Government investigated him for war crimes, and he agreed to renounce his United States citizenship and leave the U.S. in return for not being prosecuted.\n\nRudolph was born in Stepfershausen, Meiningen, Germany in 1906. His family were farmers, with a long tradition in the area. His father Gustav, died in 1915 while serving in World War I. Arthur and his younger brother Walter were raised by their mother, Ida. When Ida noticed young Arthur had a mechanical gift, she decided he should attend technical training. Walter inherited the family farm. From 1921 on, Rudolph attended the technical school in Schmalkalden for three years. In 1924 he found employment at a silver goods factory in Bremen.\n\nIn August 1927 Rudolph accepted a job at Stock & Co. in Berlin. After a few months, he became a toolmaker at Fritz Werner. In 1928 he attended the Technical College of Berlin— now the Technical University of Berlin —graduating in 1930 with the equivalent of a Bachelor of Science degree in mechanical engineering. On May 1, 1930, Rudolph began working for the Heylandt Works in Berlin where he met rocketry pioneer Max Valier. Valier had use of the factory grounds for his experiments in rocketry and Rudolph became interested, working with Valier in his spare time along with Walter Riedel. Rudolph already had some interest in rocketry, having read \"Wege zur Raumschiffahrt\" (\"Ways to Spaceflight\") by Hermann Oberth and having seen the film \"Woman in the Moon\".\n\nOn May 17, an experimental engine exploded and killed Valier. Dr. Paulus Heylandt forbade further rocket research, but Rudolph continued secretly with Riedel and Alfons Pietsch. Rudolph then developed an improved and safer version of Valier's engine while Pietsch designed a rocket car. Dr. Heylandt conceded to back the project, and the \"Heylandt Rocket Car\" was born and was exhibited at Tempelhof Aerodrome. While it was a technical success, the fuel costs were greater than the admissions received and performances were discontinued. Rudolph joined the Nazi Party in 1931, then later the SA.\n\nRudolph first met Wernher von Braun when he visited a meeting of the \"Verein für Raumschiffahrt\" (VfR, the \"Spaceflight Society\"). In May 1932 Rudolph was laid off and looking for work when he encountered Pietsch. After forming a partnership Rudolph began design on a new engine, while Pietsch looked for a backer. Pietsch met with Walter Dornberger, who had been tasked by the German Ordnance Department to develop a rocket weapons system and had become interested in the VfR.\n\nAfter demonstrating the new engine to Dornberger, Rudolph moved to the proving grounds at Kummersdorf along with Riedel, and began working under von Braun. Rudolph's engine was used in the Aggregat series of rockets. In December 1934, the von Braun team successfully launched two A-2 rockets from the island of Borkum. Static testing on the A-3 engines began in Kummersdorf in late 1936 and were observed by General Werner von Fritsch, the commander-in chief of the German Army High Command.\n\nThe Kummersdorf facilities were inadequate for continued operations, so the von Braun team was moved to Peenemünde in May 1937 where Rudolph was tasked with the building of the A-3 test stand. The Rudolphs lived in nearby Zinnowitz, where their daughter, Marianne Erika, was born on November 26, 1937. The A-3 series was plagued with guidance problems and never proved successful. In early 1938, Dornberger put Rudolph in charge of the design for the new production plant to be built at Peenemünde for the A-4 series, later renamed the V-2 (Vergeltungswaffe-\"Reprisal Weapon\"-2).\n\nIn August 1943, as Rudolph was ready to begin production of the V-2, the British bombed Peenemünde. After Peenemünde was bombed, the V-2 production facility was moved to the Mittelwerk facility, which was near Nordhausen and underground.\n\nMittelwerk was originally a gypsum mine that was being used as a storage facility and was being excavated for production facilities. The labor force consisted of prisoners who were eventually housed at the Mittelbau-Dora concentration camp. Rudolph was in charge of moving the equipment from Peenemünde to Mittelwerk, working under Albin Sawatzki. After the plant was in place, Rudolph was operations director for V-2 missile production. Sawatzki decreed that fifty were to be produced in December. Given the labor and parts issues, Rudolph was barely able to produce four rockets that were later returned from Peenemünde as defective. There are estimates that between 12–20,000 prisoners died while building the V-2 rockets at Mittelwerk. More than the actual V-2 bombardments.\n\nIn 1944, Himmler convinced Hitler to put the V-2 project directly under SS control, and in August replaced Dornberger with SS General Hans Kammler as its director.\n\nIn January 1945 the SS ordered all of the civilians and prisoners, including Rudolph and his team, to attend a public hanging of six to twelve prisoners accused of sabotage. By March 1945, production had stopped due to a lack of parts and Rudolph and his staff were moved to Oberammergau where they met von Braun and others from Peenemünde. They finally surrendered to the U.S. Army and were transported to Garmisch.\n\nRudolph was transferred to the British to participate in Operation Backfire from July to October 1945. He was then transferred back to the Americans. The U.S. Army picked up Martha and Marianne Rudolph from Stepfershausen before it was occupied by the Red Army and the Rudolphs were reunited at Camp Overcast near Landshut. In November 1945, Operation Overcast brought Rudolph, von Braun and the rest of the V-2 team temporarily to the US for six months. Overcast was renamed Operation Paperclip in March 1946 and formally approved by President Truman in August 1946. Most of the group stayed permanently. During a background investigation conducted on January 2, 1954 Rudolph was described as \"a loyal member of the National Socialist German Labor Party (NSDAP), and is the type of person who would not stop at anything if it might further his ambitions. He had the reputation of being a person who, in his enthusiasm for the Nazi Regime, could be dangerous to a fellow employee who did not guard his language.\" Despite this less than enthusiastic review Rudolph was placed in a position of trust and confidence.\n\nAfter a brief interrogation at Fort Strong, the team was sent to White Sands Proving Grounds to work on further V-2 engineering in January 1946. In January 1947 Rudolph was moved to the Ordnance Research and Development Division at Fort Bliss, El Paso, Texas, where his family finally joined him in April. Since he had been brought into the US without a visa, he and others were sent to Juárez, Mexico where he obtained a visa and officially immigrated to the U.S. on April 14, 1949. During his time at Fort Bliss, he acted as a liaison to the Solar Aircraft Company, and spent much of 1947 and 1949 in San Diego, California.\n\nDuring a 1949 inquiry by the FBI, Rudolph made the following statement on his participation in the Nazi party:\nUntil 1930 I sympathized with the Social Democratic party, voted for it and was a member of a Social Democratic union (Bund Techn. Agst. u. Beamt.) After 1930 the economical situation became so serious that it appeared to me to be headed for catastrophe. (I really became unemployed in 1932.) The great amount of unemployment caused the expansion of National Socialist and Communist parties. Frightened that the latter one would become the government I joined the NSDAP (a legally reg. entity) to help, I believed in the preservation of western culture.\n\nOn June 25, 1950 Rudolph was transferred to Redstone Arsenal, Huntsville, Alabama, and his group was re-designated as the Ordnance Guided Missile Center. He was naturalized as an American citizen on November 11, 1954 in Birmingham, Alabama. In 1950 Rudolph was appointed as the technical director for the Redstone missile project. Rudolph was assigned as the project manager for the Pershing missile project in 1956. He specifically selected The Martin Company as the prime contractor for the program. He also chose the Eclipse-Pioneer division of Bendix to develop the guidance system after he personally inspected the plant in Teterboro, New Jersey.\n\nRudolph received an honorary doctorate of science degree from Rollins College in Winter Park, Florida on February 23, 1959. He received the Decoration for Exceptional Civilian Service, the highest Army award for civilians, for his work on Pershing.\n\nAlthough von Braun and his team had been transferred to NASA in 1960, Rudolph stayed with ABMA to continue critical work on Pershing. In 1961 he finally moved to NASA, once again working for von Braun. He became the assistant director of systems engineering, serving as liaison between vehicle development at Marshall Space Flight Center and the Manned Spacecraft Center in Houston. He later became the project director of the Saturn V rocket program in August 1963. He developed the requirements for the rocket system and the mission plan for the Apollo program. The first Saturn V launch lifted off from Kennedy Space Center and performed flawlessly on November 9, 1967, Rudolph's birthday. He was then assigned as the special assistant to the director of MSFC in May 1968 and subsequently retired from NASA on January 1, 1969. During his tenure he was awarded the NASA Exceptional Service Medal and the NASA Distinguished Service Medal. On July 16, 1969, the Saturn V launched Apollo 11, putting man on the Moon.\n\nIn 1979, Eli Rosenbaum of the Office of Special Investigations (OSI) by chance read about Rudolph in a book about moving rocket parts using forced labor. Eli Rosenbaum had conducted research at the National Archives, about the Dora war crimes trial, appearing to connect him with the use of forced labor at Mittelwerk.\nIn September 1982, Rudolph received a letter requesting an interview by the OSI.\nRudolph believed this was one of the series of interrogations he had gone through since his arrival in the U.S. The first of three interviews, it centered on his attitudes on racial superiority, his early participation in the Nazi Party and a possible role in the treatment of prisoners at Mittelwerk.\n\nOn November 28, 1983, Rudolph, purportedly under duress and fearful for the welfare of his wife and daughter, signed an agreement with the OSI stating that he would leave the United States and renounce his United States citizenship. Under the agreement, Rudolph would not be prosecuted, the citizenship of his wife and daughter was not in danger of revocation and Rudolph's retirement and Social Security benefits were left intact. In March 1984 Arthur and Martha Rudolph departed for West Germany where Rudolph renounced his citizenship as agreed. West Germany protested to the United States Department of State, as Rudolph now had no citizenship in any country. In July, West Germany requested documentation from the OSI to determine if Rudolph should be prosecuted or granted citizenship. The World Jewish Congress placed articles in newspapers in January 1985 on behalf of the Department of Justice, searching for survivors of the Mittelwerk.\n\nAfter receiving documentation in April 1985, the case was investigated by Harald Duhn, the Attorney General of Hamburg. In March 1987, the investigation concluded after questioning a number of witnesses and determining no basis for prosecution, since the only crime which had not passed the statute of limitations was murder. Rudolph was granted German citizenship.\n\nMeanwhile, a great deal of controversy occurred back in the U.S. Rudolph had not told his friends of the investigation, but the OSI issued a press release after his departure. Several groups and individuals were calling for an investigation into the OSI's activities regarding Rudolph. These included retired Major General John Medaris (former commander of ABMA), officials of the city of Huntsville, the American Legion and former associates at NASA. Thomas Franklin interviewed Rudolph and wrote a series of articles in the \"Huntsville News\" that questioned the OSI investigation– these were later used as the basis for \"An American in Exile: The Story of Arthur Rudolph\".\n\nIn 1985, Representative Bill Green of New York introduced a bill to strip Rudolph of the NASA Distinguished Service Medal (DSM) and re-introduced it in 1987. Rudolph applied for a visa in 1989 to attend a 20th anniversary celebration of the first Moon landing, but was denied by the State Department. In May 1990, Representative James Traficant of Ohio submitted a motion calling for hearings to determine whether the OSI was \"justified in its actions or violated the rights of Arthur Rudolph.\" The motion failed to receive any co-sponsors and was referred to the Subcommittee on Immigration, Refugees, and International Law in June, with no further action taken.\n\nIn July the Rudolphs entered Canada for a reunion with their daughter. Since the OSI had placed Rudolph on a watch list, he was detained and left Canada of his own accord. Ernst Zündel and Paul Fromm attempted to support Rudolph with demonstrations. After Rudolph left, an immigration hearing was held in his absence; he was represented by Barbara Kulaszka, but Canadian authorities ruled that he could not return to Canada. Rudolph sued to regain his U.S. citizenship, but the case was dismissed in 1993.\n\nIn November 1996, Martha Rudolph wrote to Henry Hyde, then chairman of the House Judiciary Committee. She stated that her husband had signed the agreement after coercion and duress by the OSI and that she was dismayed by the House resolutions to strip her husband of the DSM. Rudolph continued to be defended by Pat Buchanan, Lyndon LaRouche and Friedwardt Winterberg. He was also defended by Holocaust deniers like Robert H. Countess and Martin Hollmann.\n\nRudolph married Martha Therese Kohls (July 5, 1905 – January 3, 1999) on October 3, 1935 in Berlin. Rudolph and his wife retired to San Jose, California to be near their daughter. Soon after moving back to Germany, he had a heart attack and a triple bypass. Arthur Rudolph died in Hamburg on January 1, 1996 from heart failure.\n\nThe character of Hans Udet in the novel \"Voyage\" by Stephen Baxter is based on Rudolph. Udet is described as a senior member of von Braun's V-2 team at the Mittelwerk and as the director of the Saturn V project. Near the end of the novel Udet faces charges on war crimes, renounces his citizenship and returns to Germany.\n\nThe character of Franz Bettmann in the film \"The Good German\", described as the chief production engineer of the V2, is in part based on Rudolph. He is also the central character in the play \"Some Brighter Distance\" by Kevin Reddin.\n\nRudolph was portrayed by Christopher Shaw in the stage play \"Apollo\", written by Nancy Keystone. \"Apollo\" premiered at Portland Center Stage in Portland, Oregon on January 13, 2009.\n\nRudolph's name is linked to several conspiracy theories, particularly UFOs and Area 51.\n\n"}
{"id": "36021004", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36021004", "title": "Batavian Republic constitutional referendum, 1805", "text": "Batavian Republic constitutional referendum, 1805\n\nA constitutional referendum was held in the Batavian Republic on 16 October 1805. Although a new constitution had been approved in an 1801 referendums, the French authorities put pressure on the Batavian State Council to pass a new constitution in which executive power was held by a single person, the Grand pensionary, a post initially filled by Rutger Jan Schimmelpenninck. The new constitution had 87 articles, which provided for a 19-seat Parliament with a three-year term which could pass or reject bills, but not change them. It was approved by 99.96% of voters.\n"}
{"id": "15110478", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15110478", "title": "Belizean constitutional referendum, 2008", "text": "Belizean constitutional referendum, 2008\n\nA national referendum, the nation's first, was held in Belize on February 7, 2008, coinciding with the 2008 general elections.\n\nThe question asked was: \"Should the Senate of Belize be elected?\"\n\nEver since independence from Great Britain in 1981, Belize has had its upper house appointed. Currently, there are 12 senators and a President.\n\nAn elected Senate, according to its proponents, would return the decision over control of the nation's resources and development to the Belizean people.\n\nEarlier in the year, Prime Minister Said Musa had given tacit support to the idea of an elected Senate, and eventually brought up the matter in session of the House of Representatives on December 19, 2007.\n\nMusa introduced a bill to allow for a referendum, to be held in 2008 likely alongside the general elections, to determine Belizeans' thoughts on the issue. The Opposition, led by Dean Barrow, argued against going to a referendum on the basis that Belizeans had not been given enough time for discussion of the issue and charged that the governing People's United Party was trying to hijack the issue to gain votes at the general elections due in the first half of 2008. The PUP countered that the opposition United Democratic Party were on \"the wrong side of history\".\n\nPrime Minister of Belize Said Musa, on Monday January 7, 2008, announced that he had asked the Governor General, Sir Colville Young, to issue a writ of referendum to be held the same day as the general election. There is precedent for multiple voting in Belize: the 2003 elections for general and municipal were held on the same day. In anticipation of the announcement the PUP had released ads condemning the UDP position and encouraging Belizeans to vote for them as well as to vote in favour of an elected Senate, linking the two together. The PUP released its proposal for an elected Senate on January 17.\n\nThe Opposition UDP announced on January 8 that it had asked its supporters to either boycott the poll or vote \"no\". It trumpeted its alternate plan as a solution. Party leader Barrow amended the position later on by simply asking supporters to vote \"no.\"\n\nReaction from the third parties was mixed. Even as many welcome the referendum, they are cautious about mixing it with the general election. Senator Godwin Hulse, Kevin Herrera and Henry Gordon of SPEAR have presented an alternate plan for the elected Senate as part of a list of reforms, to widespread discussion.\n\nThe referendum was held to the same procedures as a general election. All registered voters over 18 were eligible to participate. Separate places in the polling stations were provided for the referendum.\n\nThe voting for the referendum began at 7:00 AM CST (1300 UTC) on election day and finished at 6:00 PM CST (0000 UTC Friday). Counting of votes began at the various counting stations beginning after the counting of votes for the general elections and continuing until a simple majority was reached which declared support or dissent for the question.\n\nThe referendum passed with over 61 percent of the vote nationwide and won in 30 out of 31 constituencies. Only the Queen's Square constituency in Belize City voted against it.\n"}
{"id": "11482477", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11482477", "title": "Bet Tzedek Legal Services – The House of Justice", "text": "Bet Tzedek Legal Services – The House of Justice\n\nBet Tzedek is an American non-profit human and poverty rights organization, internationally recognized for its work in providing unique advocacy and support for people living in poverty, and for communities victimized by discrimination and civil rights abuses.\n\nOne of the United States' leading centers for social justice, Bet Tzedek is based in Los Angeles, California. It was founded in 1974 by a group of Jewish attorneys determined to address the human rights issues and humanitarian needs endemic to Los Angeles. Their social justice philosophy was rooted in a central tenet of Jewish law and teaching: \"Tzedek, tzedek tirdof – Justice, justice you shall pursue.\"\n\nBet Tzedek embraces the fundamental commitment of achieving full and equal access to justice for all people. The United States legal system was created to fairly serve all citizens, yet without equal access to the justice system, low-income citizens are disproportionately victimized by unjust and illegal practices such as coercive labor practices, abuse and neglect of developmentally disabled people, unlawful debt collection and racially targeted victimization.\n\nIn a city with one of the highest poverty rates in the United States, Bet Tzedek offers support to the nearly two million residents of L.A. who live in poverty. Bet Tzedek has taken on widespread systemic injustices taking place in nursing homes, slum housing, and garment factories — identifying and investigating the problems, and winning victories that have directly and measurably expanded equal access to justice for the poor, elderly and disabled.\n\nToday, many of Bet Tzedek's initiatives are the only programs of their kind in existence. Its free legal representation helps low-income people of every race and religion in Los Angeles, and directly empowers people with knowledge and tools needed to protect their rights.\n\nIn the late 1960s and early 1970s, activists throughout the nation began to systemically address the roots of injustice by fighting poverty, disenfranchisement, and discrimination. The City of Los Angeles faced overwhelming crises with devastatingly entrenched areas of urban blight, deteriorating living conditions in slums and ghettos, and an increasingly disempowered population of low-income people.\n\nBet Tzedek's volunteer attorneys provided free legal representation to Angelenos who would never otherwise gain access to the justice system. As the need skyrocketed throughout the mid-1970s, Bet Tzedek rapidly evolved from a part-time, volunteer-run organization into a comprehensive, full-service center providing free legal aid to all of Los Angeles.\n\nBy 1977, Bet Tzedek’s lawyers had won several landmark cases that brought hope and empowerment to thousands of the most vulnerable citizens in the rapidly growing metropolis, including successfully blocking the illegal evictions of low-income elderly residents of Venice, California's Cadillac Hotel. Bet Tzedek's victory won health and safety renovations, and guaranteed the residents' right to remain in a for the rest of their lives, at their current low rents. \nIn 1984, Bet Tzedek affirmed its growing reputation as the leading agency offering free services to Holocaust survivors by winning a landmark decision that provided vital support and justice to thousands of low-income, elderly Holocaust survivors. The U.S. Court of Appeals for the 9th Circuit ruled in favor of Felicia Grunfeder, a Bet Tzedek client and Holocaust survivor who had been denied disability benefits because she received a small survivors’ reparations payment. After multiple appeals, the federal courts ruled that Holocaust reparations payments cannot preclude disability payments—state and federal legislation subsequently codified the decision.\n\nBet Tzedek provided emergency legal services during and in the aftermath of the 1992 Los Angeles riots, when four LAPD officers were acquitted in the beating of black motorist Rodney King. The issues central to the riots – racial profiling, civil rights abuses, endemic poverty, poor housing conditions, and unemployment – were also central to Bet Tzedek's work. L.A. Mayor Tom Bradley commended Bet Tzedek for providing services during and after civil unrest. Advocates continue to see clients at senior centers in the central city during the riots.\n\nIn the early 1990s, Bet Tzedek sued a national HMO alleging fraud and deceptive sales practices in the HMO’s racially targeted victimization of elderly Spanish-speaking enrollees. Ensuing media coverage prompted a federal investigation and a stockholder suit against the company and Bet Tzedek successfully settled the underlying case.\n\nFollowing the 1994 Northridge earthquake, Bet Tzedek provided emergency assistance to earthquake victims with housing issues, home improvement fraud, and Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) claims. For low-income victims, Bet Tzedek was the sole source of free advocacy.\n\nIn 1995, Bet Tzedek initiatives revealed disturbingly negligent conditions in Los Angeles area nursing homes. To address this, Bet Tzedek sponsored major state legislation that provided new standards and protections for low-income elderly residents who were most at risk for elder abuse. In 1999, Bet Tzedek's lawsuit against Hillhaven, one of the largest nursing home chains in the country, resulted in the company agreeing to change business practices that violate state and federal law and led to financial hardship for residents and their families.\n\nIn 1998, Bet Tzedek brought a major class-action suit with pro bono counsel against 16 European-based insurance companies who refused to honor insurance policies purchased by Jews who perished in the Holocaust. With up to 60% of all survivors living in poverty, this advocacy provided desperately needed resources. This advocacy continues to this day, as Bet Tzedek assists survivors with issues centered in the governments of former Nazi nations.\n\nIn 2001, when 61% of Los Angeles apparel contractors were violating wage and hour laws, Bet Tzedek opens the Employment Rights Project in the San Fernando Valley in response to the growing numbers of “working poor” in Los Angeles, who remain in poverty despite working full-time as garment workers, day laborers, domestics, carwash employees, and gardeners.\n\nIn 2002, Bet Tzedek investigated the city’s most-convicted slumlord, unraveling a complex web of fraudulent practices. After filing a lawsuit, Bet Tzedek obtained a major settlement requiring the slumlord to pay $1 million to the City of L.A. and submit to ongoing monitoring of his business practices by Bet Tzedek.\n\nIn 2004, Bet Tzedek helped pass a new state law and established a new legal precedent protecting garment workers, ensuring the safety and proper treatment of hundreds of thousands of workers in L.A. alone.\n\nIn 2012, Bet Tzedek moved from its longtime headquarters in Los Angeles' historically Jewish Fairfax District to a new headquarters on Wilshire Boulevard in Koreatown. The move was motivated in part because Bet Tzedek's services are now provided mainly to non-Jews, and because the organization desired a more centralized location.\n\nBet Tzedek's services include advice, counseling and representation at trials, administrative hearings, and appeals. Bet Tzedek also offers educational programs to clients and other service providers. Services at Bet Tzedek are provided through the following programs:\n\nBet Tzedek's Consumer Protection Unit litigates consumer fraud cases in a variety of areas, including home equity fraud, telemarketing, automobile financing, and health care marketing, and door-to-door sales. Additionally the Consumer Protection Unit provides educational programs throughout Los Angeles County to help residents recognize and avoid fraud. Bet Tzedek also collaborates with various law enforcement agencies and legal services providers to target the most notorious scam artists.\n\nBet Tzedek’s Employment Rights Project advocates on behalf of a variety of low-wage workers, including Day Laborers, domestic workers, and those working in the garment, construction, car wash, restaurant and janitorial industries. The Project represents low-wage workers, regardless of their immigration status, who have been illegally denied wages that they have earned. Client services range from brief advice, counseling and informal advocacy, to representation in hearings before the California Labor Commissioner and litigation in state and federal courts.\n\n AARP and the National Alliance for Caregiving estimate that 4.3 million adults in the State of California provide unpaid care to an adult relative or friend. The total value of familycaregiving is estimated at $276 billion. Caregivers usually do not quit their jobs, or leave their personal relationships, to offer care to their relatives. The Family Caregiving Project at Bet Tzedek responds by providing expert legal counsel, advice and representation to English, Spanish and Chinese speaking adults who care for a loved-one afflicted with Alzheimer's Disease, Dementia or other debilitating illnesses.\n\nDirector of the Bet Tzedek Legal Services Family Caregiver Project, Janet Moris, serves caregivers throughout Los Angeles County with essential education, referrals and legal services. Serving over 300 clients each year Morris is nationally regarded as one of the outstanding advocates and educators in this area of practice. Bet Tzedek Legal Services staff make presentations to over 2,000 family members, social workers, and service professionals annually.\n\nBet Tzedek represents clients on a range of state and federal government benefits, including Social Security, Medi-Cal, Medicare, SSI/SSDI (Disability), in-home supportive services, veterans' benefits, CalWORKS, Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (food stamps), WIC, and Adoption Assistance, KinGAP. Bet Tzedek represents clients in appeals, helps clients to apply for benefits, and identifies appropriate programs.\n\nBet Tzedek Legal Services is the only agency in the world that offers free assistance to Holocaust survivors applying for reparations, pensions and other benefits from Germany and other European countries. Bet Tzedek also has been at the forefront on issues affecting all survivors, including Holocaust-era insurance coverage, the effect of reparations on eligibility for public benefits, and the waiver of wire transfer fees for survivors who receive reparations.\n\nThe Housing Law Project provides legal assistance to tenants in Los Angeles County facing eviction actions and illegal housing conditions. The elderly and persons with disabilities are the focus of much of the service because they are often targeted for eviction in order to circumvent the rent stabilization laws and bring in new tenants at higher rents. The project’s attorney represents these clients, develops solutions to systematic housing legal problems, and recruits, trains, and supervises a network of volunteer attorneys.\n\nBet Tzedek's Sydney M. Irmas Housing Conditions Project is underwritten by a grant from the Irmas Family Foundation to help low-income families secure safe, affordable housing. In 2001, the Irmas Project brought landmark litigation on behalf of tenants' rights group Inquilinos Unidos against one of the most notorious landlords in Los Angeles. The lawsuit was later joined by the Los Angeles City Attorney's office, and the law firm of Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher served as pro bono counsel on the suit. This case represented a landmark victory in the battle against landlords who subject their tenants to substandard health and safety conditions and set a significant precedent in the ability of tenants' groups to successfully prosecute owners attempting to hide behind a web of business identities.\n\nThe Eviction Defense Project at Bet Tzedek Legal Servicesprovides expert advice, counsel and representation those in need of assistance. Bet Tzedek accepts eviction cases on an individual basis, and screens all cases for merit. Annually, Bet Tzedek serves as counsel for 100 families who face illegal eviction from their apartments, with a success rate of over 90 percent.\n\n When parents are unavailable or unable to care for their children, grandparents often step in to provide a loving home and to keep their loved ones safe from the emotional turmoil of foster care placements. Bet Tzedek Legal Services created the Kinship Care Project in 2002 to address the needs of the more than 88,000 children in Los Angeles County who live with their grandparents. The Kinship Care Project offers a variety of services to grandparents and others who are raising their young family members. For the last five years, Bet Tzedek has offered free and expert legal services to these families, who are poor and struggle to provide decent housing, education, and health care for these forgotten or abandoned young children.\n\nBet Tzedek’s Kinship Care Project is unique in Los Angeles County, as no other service provider focuses on this population. The assistance offered by Bet Tzedek Legal Services keeps children out of the foster care system, and ensures that all available government benefits are accessed, that health care is provided, and that rights to decent and safe housing are preserved. Additionally, Bet Tzedek Legal Services published Southern California’s first comprehensive guide for relative caregivers, Caring for a Relative’s Child. The guide is available in both English and Spanish, and is the primary resource of its kind used by social workers throughout Los Angeles County.\n\nThe Nursing Home Advocacy Project (NHAP) has been a signature program that has shaped the development of Bet Tzedek’s nationally regarded elderlaw practice. The project was established in response to a critical need for effective legal assistance for frail, elderly residents of nursing homes. Today, Bet Tzedek aggressively works to improve the quality of care for the institutionalized elderly and provides legal protection against abuse and neglect through advice, education, advocacy, and litigation. Among the many milestones in NHAP’s history are:\n\nNHAP has published the following consumer guides: \"The Nursing Home Companion\" (in English and Spanish); \"If Only I Had Known: Misrepresentations Made by Nursing Homes\" (published with a grant from the Archstone Foundation), and \"How to Get Care From a Residential Care Facility\". Over 200,000 copies of these guides have been distributed nationally, and they remain the first resource consulted by ombudspersons throughout California.\n\nFor more than two decades, Bet Tzedek has comprehensively served the legal needs of low-income seniors in Los Angeles. Because of their expertise, Bet Tzedek is the exclusive provider of free legal services to low-income seniors through contracts with the City and County of Los Angeles. Bet Tzedek staff includes specialists on the legal issues that affect seniors – consumer fraud and elder abuse, nursing homes and residential care facilities, public benefits, family and kinship caregiver needs, and housing — and Bet Tzedek staff regularly meets with clients at more than 30 senior centers in Greater Los Angeles County. In addition to providing one-on-one services, Bet Tzedek has developed four new legal clinics designed to help seniors help themselves. Each clinic provides an overview of a particular legal issue and guides seniors in the preparation of the appropriate legal documents.\n"}
{"id": "31629027", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31629027", "title": "Budget Responsibility and National Audit Act 2011", "text": "Budget Responsibility and National Audit Act 2011\n\nThe Budget Responsibility and National Audit Act 2011 (c. 4) is an Act of the Parliament of the United Kingdom. It provides a statutory footing for the already-established Office for Budget Responsibility, and requires the treasury to set out its approach to fiscal policy in a Charter for Budget Responsibility. It also sets out a new structure for the National Audit Office and repeals the Fiscal Responsibility Act 2010.\n\nIt was introduced in the House of Lords by the Commercial Secretary to the Treasury Lord Sassoon, on behalf of the Government, and it received Royal Assent on 22 March 2011.\n\nThe Office for Budget Responsibility was initially constituted in shadow form by the Conservative party opposition in December 2009. It was then formally created by the new government after the general election in May 2010, before being put on a statutory footing by this Act.\n\nThe OBR provides independent economic forecasts as background to the preparation of the UK budget.\n"}
{"id": "28739059", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28739059", "title": "Commercial code (law)", "text": "Commercial code (law)\n\nIn law, a commercial code is a codification of private law relating to merchants, trade, business entities (especially companies), commercial contracts and other matters such as negotiable instruments.\n\nMany civil law legal systems have codifications of commercial law.\n\n"}
{"id": "50540765", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50540765", "title": "Conscientious objectors in Wales", "text": "Conscientious objectors in Wales\n\nA Conscientious Objector is an \"individual who has refused to take part in the Great War\". There were different meanings for this, for example, religious meanings (not believing in violence and/or killing), freedom of thought, conscience, and disability. In many countries Conscientious Objectors are forced to do other services as a substitute for military service. Conscientious Objectors were often seen as cowards. Many people from across the United Kingdom were considered to be Conscientious Objectors during the First World War, and the movement was as pronounced in Wales as in any other part of the county.\n\nIn Wales there was strong support for the movement from pacifists within the large non-conformist community.\n\nOne of the most vocal opponents of conscription for the Great War was George Maitland Lloyd Davies (30 April 1880 – 16 December 1949), was born in Liverpool. He was imprisoned for opposing the Great War and conscription. He and his friend, Richard Roberts from Blaenau Ffestiniog, formed a Christian society to promote peace during World War I called the \"Fellowship of Reconciliation\" (Cymdeithas y Cymod). They published a magazine under the title \"Y Deyrnas\" from 1916 to 1919, with Thomas Rees, head of Bala-Bangor college as editor.\n\nIn 1937, the Welsh National Pacifist Society was established with George Maitland Lloyd Davies (G.M.LL.D) as president. At the end of 1937 a pamphlet had been published to go along with the launch of the society by the name of \"Ymorthodwn a Rhyfel\" (We Reject War).\n"}
{"id": "1409458", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1409458", "title": "Consociationalism", "text": "Consociationalism\n\nConsociationalism ( ) is often viewed as synonymous with power-sharing, although it is technically only one form of power-sharing.\n\nConsociationalism is often seen as having close affinities with corporatism; some consider it to be a form of corporatism while others claim that economic corporatism was designed to regulate class conflict, while consociationalism developed on the basis of reconciling societal fragmentation along ethnic and religious lines.\n\nThe goals of consociationalism are governmental stability, the survival of the power-sharing arrangements, the survival of democracy, and the avoidance of violence. When consociationalism is organised along religious confessional lines, it is known as confessionalism, as is the case in Lebanon.\n\nPolitical scientists define a consociational state as a state which has major internal divisions along ethnic, religious, or linguistic lines, with none of the divisions large enough to form a majority group, yet nonetheless manages to remain stable, due to consultation among the elites of each of its major social groups. Consociational states are often contrasted with states with majoritarian electoral systems.\n\nConsociation was a term and concept discussed in the 17th century New England Confederation with reference to the interassociation and cooperation of the participant independently self-governing Congregational churches of the various colonial townships of the Massachusetts Bay Colony (which were embedded in the civil legislature and magistracy). It was debated at length in the Boston Synod of 1662, at the time when the Episcopalian Act of Uniformity 1662 was being introduced in England.\n\nConsociationalism was discussed in academic terms by the political scientist Arend Lijphart. However, Lijphart has stated that he had \"merely discovered what political practitioners had repeatedly – and independently of both academic experts and one another – invented years earlier\". John McGarry and Brendan O'Leary trace consociationalism back to 1917, when it was first employed in the Netherlands.\n\nIndeed, Lijphart draws heavily on the experience of the Netherlands in developing his argument in favour of the consociational approach to ethnic conflict regulation. The Netherlands, as a consociational state, was between 1857 and 1967 divided into four non-territorial pillars: Calvinist, Catholic, socialist, and general, although until 1917 there was a plurality (\"first past the post\") electoral system rather than a consociational one. In their heyday, each comprised tightly-organised groups, schools, universities, hospitals and newspapers, all divided along a pillarised social structure. The theory, according to Lijphart, focuses on the role of social elites, their agreement and co-operation, as the key to a stable democracy.\n\nLijphart identifies four key characteristics of consociational democracies:\n\nConsociational policies often have these characteristics:\n\nLijphart also identifies a number of \"favourable conditions\" under which consociationalism is likely to be successful. He has changed the specification of these conditions somewhat over time. Michael Kerr summarises Lijphart's most prominent favourable factors as:\n\nLijphart stresses that these conditions are neither indispensable nor sufficient to account for the success of consociationalism. This has led Rinus van Schendelen to conclude that \"the conditions may be present and absent, necessary and unnecessary, in short conditions or no conditions at all\".\n\nJohn McGarry and Brendan O'Leary argue that three conditions are key to the establishment of democratic consociational power-sharing: elites have to be motivated to engage in conflict regulation; elites must lead deferential segments; and there must be a multiple balance of power, but more importantly the subcultures must be stable. Michael Kerr, in his study of the role of external actors in power-sharing arrangements in Northern Ireland and Lebanon, adds to McGarry and O'Leary's list the condition that \"the existence of positive external regulating pressures, from state to non-state actors, which provide the internal elites with sufficient incentives and motives for their acceptance of, and support for, consociation\".\n\nIn a consociational state, all groups, including minorities, are represented on the political and economic stage. Supporters of consociationalism argue that it is a more realistic option in deeply divided societies than integrationist approaches to conflict management. It has been credited with supporting successful and non-violent transitions to democracy in countries such as South Africa.\n\nBrian Barry has questioned the nature of the divisions that exist in the countries that Lijphart considers to be \"classic cases\" of consociational democracies. For example, he makes the case that in the Swiss example, \"political parties cross-cut cleavages in the society and provide a picture of remarkable consensus rather than highly structured conflict of goals\". In the case of the Netherlands, he argues that \"the whole cause of the disagreement was the feeling of some Dutchman ... that it mattered what all the inhabitants of the country believed. Demands for policies aimed at producing religious or secular uniformity presuppose a concern ... for the state of grace of one's fellow citizens\". He contrasts this to the case of a society marked by conflict, in this case Northern Ireland, where he argues that \"the inhabitants ... have never shown much worry about the prospects of the adherents of the other religion going to hell\". Barry concludes that in the Dutch case, consociationalism is tautological and argues that \"the relevance of the 'consociational' model for other divided societies is much more doubtful than is commonly supposed\".\n\nRinus van Schendelen has argued that Lijphart uses evidence selectively. Pillarisation was \"seriously weakening\", even in the 1950s, cross-denominational co-operation was increasing, and formerly coherent political sub-cultures were dissolving. He argued that elites in the Netherlands were not motivated by preferences derived from the general interest, but rather by self-interest. They formed coalitions not to forge consociational negotiation between segments but to improve their parties' respective power. He argued that the Netherlands was \"stable\" in that it had few protests or riots, but that it was so before consociationalism, and that it was not stable from the standpoint of government turnover. He questioned the extent to which the Netherlands, or indeed any country labelled a consociational system, could be called a democracy, and whether calling a consociational country a democracy isn't somehow ruled out by definition. He believed that Lijphart suffered severe problems of rigor when identifying whether particular divisions were cleavages, whether particular cleavages were segmental, and whether particular cleavages were cross-cutting.\n\nIan Lustick has argued that academics lack an alternative \"control\" approach for explaining stability in deeply divided societies and that this has resulted in the empirical overextension of consociational models. Lustick argues that Lijphart has \"an impressionistic methodological posture, flexible rules for coding data, and an indefatigable, rhetorically seductive commitment to promoting consociationalism as a widely applicable principle of political engineering\", that results in him applying consociational theory to case studies that it does not fit. Furthermore, Lustick states that \"Lijphart's definition of 'accommodation' ... includes the elaborately specified claim that issues dividing polarized blocs are settled by leaders convinced of the need for settlement\".\n\nCritics point out that consociationalism is dangerous in a system of differing antagonistic ideologies, generally conservatism and communism. They state that specific conditions must exist for three or more groups to develop a multi- system with strong leaders. This philosophy is dominated by elites, with those masses that are sidelined with the elites having less to lose if war breaks out. Consociationalism cannot be imperially applied. For example, it does not effectively apply to Austria. Critics also point to the failure of this line of reasoning in Lebanon, a country that reverted to civil war. It only truly applies in Switzerland, Belgium and the Netherlands, and not in more deeply divided societies. If one of three groups gets half plus one of the vote, then the other groups are in perpetual opposition, which is largely incompatible with consociationalism.\n\nConsociationalism focuses on diverging identities such as ethnicity instead of integrating identities such as class, institutionalizing and entrenching the former. Furthermore, it relies on rival co-operation, which is inherently unstable. It focuses on intrastate relations and neglects relations with other states. Donald L. Horowitz argues that consociationalism can lead to the reification of ethnic divisions, since \"grand coalitions are unlikely, because of the dynamics of intraethnic competition. The very act of forming a multiethnic coalition generates intraethnic competition – flanking – if it does not already exist\". Consistent with Horowitz' claims, Dawn Brancati finds that federalism/territorial autonomy, an element of consociationalism, strengthens ethnic divisions if it is designed in a way that strengthens regional parties, which in turn encourage ethnic conflict.\n\nConsociationalism assumes that each group is cohesive and has strong leadership. Although the minority can block decisions, this requires 100 per cent agreement. Rights are given to communities rather than individuals, leading to over-representation of some individuals in society and under-representation of others. Grand coalitions are unlikely to happen due to the dynamics of ethnic competition. Each group seeks more power for itself. Consociationalists are criticized for focusing too much on the set up of institutions and not enough on transitional issues which go beyond such institutions. Finally, it is claimed that consociational institutions promote sectarianism and entrench existing identities.\n\nThe political systems of a number of countries operate or used to operate on a consociational basis, including Belgium, Cyprus (effective 1960–1963), Lebanon, the Netherlands (1917–1967), Switzerland, and South Africa. Some academics have also argued that the European Union resembles a consociational democracy.\n\nAdditionally, a number of peace agreements are consociational, including:\n\nPost-Taliban Afghanistan's political system has also been described as consociational, although it lacks ethnic quotas.\n\nIn addition to the two-state solution, some have argued for a one-state solution under a consociational democracy in the state of Israel to solve the Arab-Israeli Conflict, but this solution is not very popular, nor has it been discussed seriously at peace negotiations.\n\nDuring the 1980s the South African government attempted to reform apartheid into a consociational democracy. The South African Constitution of 1983 applied Lijpart's powersharing ideas by establishing a Tricameral Parliament. During the 1990s negotiations to end apartheid the National Party (NP) and Inkatha Freedom Party (IFP) proposed a settlement based upon consociationalism. The African National Congress (ANC) opposed consociationalism and proposed instead a settlement based upon majoritarian democracy. The NP abandoned consociationalism when the U.S. Department of State came out in favor of the majoritarian democracy model in 1992. in Iran, the present government is based on consociationalism.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3056001", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3056001", "title": "Contractum trinius", "text": "Contractum trinius\n\nA contractum trinius was a set of contracts devised by European bankers and merchants in the Middle Ages as a method of circumventing canonical laws prohibiting usury as a part of Christian finance. At the time, most Christian nations heavily incorporated scripture into their laws, and as such it was illegal for any person to charge interest on a loan of money.\n\nTo get around this, a set of three separate contracts were presented to someone seeking a loan: an investment, a sale of profit and an insurance contract. Each of these contracts were permissible under canon law, but together replicated the effect of an interest-bearing loan.\n\nThe way this procedure worked was as follows: The lender would invest a sum equal to the amount of financing required by the borrower for one year. The lender would then purchase insurance for the investment from the borrower, and finally sell to the borrower the right to any profit made over a pre-arranged percentage of the investment. This system replicated the effects of a loan with any interest rate agreed between the two, yet provided protection to the lender against default, while the borrower remained under the protection of the law when it came to collection of the money by threats or force (loan sharking).\n\nThe Church proved utterly unable to legislate against the \"contractum trinius\", and the idea quickly spread to merchants and bankers across Christendom. It was accepted by writers such as Gabriel Biel; it helped in part to improve public perception of the practice of usury by moneylenders, and ultimately the doctrine was rewritten by the School of Salamanca, and the ban on interest-bearing loans overturned in many Protestant countries, starting with England by Henry VIII.\n\nSome Muslims are of the view that the present practice of Islamic banking relies on devices similar to the contractum trinius as a means of working around a ban of riba (usury) in religious scripture.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48727", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48727", "title": "Corpus Juris Civilis", "text": "Corpus Juris Civilis\n\nThe Corpus Juris (or Iuris) Civilis (\"Body of Civil Law\") is the modern name for a collection of fundamental works in jurisprudence, issued from 529 to 534 by order of Justinian I, Eastern Roman Emperor. It is also sometimes referred to as the Code of Justinian, although this name belongs more properly to the part titled \"Codex Justinianus\".\n\nThe work as planned had three parts: the \"Code\" (\"Codex\") is a compilation, by selection and extraction, of imperial enactments to date; the \"Digest\" or \"Pandects\" (the Latin title contains both \"Digesta\" and \"Pandectae\") is an encyclopedia composed of mostly brief extracts from the writings of Roman jurists; and the \"Institutes\" (\"Institutiones\") is a student textbook, mainly introducing the \"Code\", although it has important conceptual elements that are less developed in the \"Code\" or the \"Digest\". All three parts, even the textbook, were given force of law. They were intended to be, together, the sole source of law; reference to any other source, including the original texts from which the \"Code\" and the \"Digest\" had been taken, was forbidden. Nonetheless, Justinian found himself having to enact further laws and today these are counted as a fourth part of the Corpus, the \"Novellae Constitutiones\" (\"Novels\", literally \"New Laws\").\n\nThe work was directed by Tribonian, an official in Justinian's court. His team was authorized to edit what they included. How far they made amendments is not recorded and, in the main, cannot be known because most of the originals have not survived. The text was composed and distributed almost entirely in Latin, which was still the official language of the government of the Byzantine Empire in 529–534, whereas the prevalent language of merchants, farmers, seamen, and other citizens was Greek. By the early 7th century, the official government language had become Greek during the lengthy reign of Heraclius (610–641).\n\nHow far the \"Corpus Juris Civilis\" or any of its parts was effective, whether in the east or (with reconquest) in the west, is unknown. However, it was not in general use during the Early Middle Ages. After the Early Middle Ages, interest in it revived. It was \"received\" or imitated as private law and its public law content was quarried for arguments by both secular and ecclesiastical authorities. This revived Roman law, in turn, became the foundation of law in all civil law jurisdictions. The provisions of the \"Corpus Juris Civilis\" also influenced the canon law of the Roman Catholic Church: it was said that \"ecclesia vivit lege romana\" – the church lives by Roman law. Its influence on common law legal systems has been much smaller, although some basic concepts from the Corpus have survived through Norman law – such as the contrast, especially in the \"Institutes\", between \"law\" (statute) and custom. The Corpus continues to have a major influence on public international law. Its four parts thus constitute the foundation documents of the Western legal tradition.\n\nJustinian acceded to the imperial throne in Constantinople in 527. Six months after his accession, in order to reduce the great number of imperial constitutions and thus also the number of court proceedings, Justinian arranged for the creation of a new collection of imperial constitutions (Codex Iustinianus). The commission in charge of the compilation process was explicitly authorized to leave out or change text and to delete what was obsolete or contradictory. Soon, in 529, the Codex was completed and was conferred the force of law in the whole empire, replacing all earlier constitutiones and the Theodosian Code.\n\nA little more than a year after the enactment of the first edition of the Code, Justinian appointed a commission to compile the traditional jurists’ law in a new, shortened and contemporary codification: the ‘Digest or Pandects’. The traditional collection of jurists’ law, Justinian believed, was so extensive that it had become unmanageable, necessitating a new compilation. The commission completed its work within three years, in 533.\n\nThe commission surveyed the works of classical jurists who were assumed in Justinian’s time to have the authority to clarify law (\"ius respondendi\") and whose works were still available. In total, there are excerpts from 38 jurists in the Digest. \n\nThe \"Codex\" was the first part to be finished, on 7 April 529. It contained in Latin most of the existing imperial \"constitutiones\" (imperial pronouncements having force of law), back to the time of Hadrian. It used both the \"Codex Theodosianus\" and the fourth-century collections embodied in the \"Codex Gregorianus\" and \"Codex Hermogenianus\", which provided the model for division into books that were themselves divided into titles. These works had developed authoritative standing. This first edition is now lost; a second edition was issued in 534 and is the text that has survived. At least the second edition contained some of Justinian's own legislation, including some legislation in Greek. It is not known whether he intended there to be further editions, although he did envisage translation of Latin enactments into Greek.\n\nNumerous provisions served to secure the status of Christianity as the state religion of the empire, uniting Church and state, and making anyone who was not connected to the Christian church a non-citizen. Note that in this regard the Christianity referred to is orthodox Roman Christianity as defined by the state church, which excluded a variety of other Christian sects in existence at the time.\n\nThe very first law in the Codex requires all persons under the jurisdiction of the Empire to hold the Christian faith. This was primarily aimed against heresies such as Nestorianism. This text later became the springboard for discussions of international law, especially the question of just what persons are under the jurisdiction of a given state or legal system.\n\nOther laws, while not aimed at pagan belief as such, forbid particular pagan practices. For example, it is provided that all persons present at a pagan sacrifice may be indicted as if for murder.\n\nThe \"Digesta\" or \"Pandectae\", completed in 533, is a collection of juristic writings, mostly dating back to the second and third centuries. Fragments were taken out of various legal treatises and opinions and inserted in the Digest. In their original context, the statements of the law contained in these fragments were just private opinions of legal scholars - although some juristic writings had been privileged by Theodosius II's Law of Citations in 426. The Digest, however, was given complete force of law.\n\nAs the \"Digest\" neared completion, Tribonian and two professors, Theophilus and Dorotheus, made a student textbook, called the \"Institutions\" or \"Elements\". As there were four elements, the manual consists of four books. The \"Institutiones\" are largely based on the \"Institutiones\" of Gaius. Two thirds of the \"Institutiones\" of Justinian consists of literal quotes from Gaius. The new \"Institutiones\" were used as a manual for jurists in training from 21 November 533 and were given the authority of law on 30 December 533 along with the \"Digest\".\n\nThe Novellae consisted of new laws that were passed after 534. They were later re-worked into the \"Syntagma\", a practical lawyer's edition, by Athanasios of Emesa during the years 572–77.\n\nThe term \"Byzantine Empire\" is used today to refer to what remained of the Roman Empire in the Eastern Mediterranean following the collapse of the Empire in the West. This Eastern empire continued to practice Roman Law and formalized it via the Corpus Juris Civilis. The law was modified to be adequate for the new social relationships in the Middle ages, and to account for the language shift of the empire's administration from Latin to Greek. Thus the tradition of Byzantine law was created. New Greek legal codes, based on Corpus Juris Civilis, were enacted. The most known are: Ecloga (740)—enacted by emperor Leo the Isaurian, Proheiron (c. 879)—enacted by emperor Basil the Macedonian and Basilika (late 9th century)—started by Basil the Macedonian and finished by his son emperor Leo the Wise. The Basilika was a complete adaptation of Justinian's codification. At 60 volumes it proved to be difficult for judges and lawyers to use. There was need for a short and handy version. This was finally made by Constantine Harmenopoulos, a Byzantine judge from Thessaloniki, in 1345. He made a short version of Basilika in six books, called \"Hexabiblos\". This was widely used throughout the Balkans during the following Ottoman period, and along with the Basilika was used as the first legal code for the newly independent Greek state in the 1820s. Serbian state, law and culture was built on the foundations of Rome and Byzantium. Therefore, the most important Serbian legal codes: Zakonopravilo (1219) and Dušan's Code (1349 and 1354), transplanted Roman-Byzantine Law included in Corpus Juris Civilis, Prohiron and Basilika. These Serbian codes were practised until the Serbian Despotate fell to the Turkish Ottoman Empire in 1459. After the liberation from the Turks in the Serbian Revolution, Serbs continued to practise Roman Law by enacting Serbian civil code in 1844. It was a short version of Austrian civil code (called \"Allgemeines bürgerliches Gesetzbuch\"), which was made on the basis of Corpus Juris Civilis.\n\nJustinian's \"Corpus Juris Civilis\" was distributed in the West but was lost sight of; it was scarcely needed in the comparatively primitive conditions that followed the loss of the Exarchate of Ravenna by the Byzantine empire in the 8th century. The only western province where the Justinianic code was effectively introduced was Italy, following its recovery by Byzantine armies (Pragmatic Sanction of 554), but a continuous tradition of Roman law in medieval Italy has not been proven. As Western Europe was conquered by Germanic tribes, Germanic legal traditions took hold, influenced locally by Roman traditions to some degree, but still largely divorced from the complex Roman legal system.\n\nHistorians disagree on the precise way the Corpus was recovered in Northern Italy about 1070: legal studies were undertaken on behalf of papal authority central to the Gregorian Reform of Pope Gregory VII, which may have led to its accidental rediscovery. Aside from the Littera Florentina (a 6th-century codex of the Pandects that was preserved at Pisa) there may have been other manuscript sources for the text that began to be taught at Bologna, by Pepo and then by Irnerius. Irnerius' technique was to read a passage aloud, which permitted his students to copy it, then to deliver an excursus explaining and illuminating Justinian's text, in the form of glosses. Irnerius' pupils, the so-called Four Doctors of Bologna, were among the first of the \"glossators\" who established the curriculum of medieval Roman law. The tradition was carried on by French lawyers, known as the Ultramontani, in the 13th century.\n\nThe merchant classes of Italian communes required law with a concept of equity, and law that covered situations inherent in urban life better than the primitive Germanic oral traditions. The provenance of the Code appealed to scholars who saw in the Holy Roman Empire a revival of venerable precedents from the classical heritage. The new class of lawyers staffed the bureaucracies that were beginning to be required by the princes of Europe. The University of Bologna, where Justinian's Code was first taught, remained the dominant centre for the study of law through the High Middle Ages.\n\nA two-volume edition of the Digest was published in Paris in 1549 and 1550, translated by Antonio Agustín, Bishop of Tarragona, who was well known for other legal works. The full title of the Digest was \"Digestorum Seu Pandectarum tomus alter\", and it was published by \"Apud Carolam Guillards\". Vol. 1 of the Digest has 2934 pages, while Vol. 2 has 2754 pages. Referring to Justinian's Code as \"Corpus Juris Civilis\" was only adopted in the 16th century, when it was printed in 1583 by Dionysius Gothofredus under this title. The legal thinking behind the \"Corpus Juris Civilis\" served as the backbone of the single largest legal reform of the modern age, the Napoleonic Code, which marked the abolition of feudalism. Napoleon wanted to see these principles introduced to the whole of Europe because he saw them as an effective form of rule that created a more equal society and thus creating a more friendly relationship between the ruling class and the rest of the peoples of Europe.\n\nThe \"Corpus Juris Civilis\" was translated into French, German, Italian, and Spanish in the 19th century. However, no English translation of the entire \"Corpus Juris Civilis \"existed until 1932 when Samuel Parsons Scott published his version \"The Civil Law\". Scott did not base his translation on the best available Latin versions, and his work was severely criticized. Fred. H. Blume used the best-regarded Latin editions for his translations of the Code and of the Novels. A new English translation of the Code, based on Blume's, was published in October 2016.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "265089", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=265089", "title": "Credit derivative", "text": "Credit derivative\n\nIn finance, a credit derivative refers to any one of \"various instruments and techniques designed to separate and then transfer the \"credit risk\"\" or the risk of an event of default of a corporate or sovereign borrower, transferring it to an entity other than the lender or debtholder.\n\nAn unfunded credit derivative is one where credit protection is bought and sold between bilateral counterparties without the protection seller having to put up money upfront or at any given time during the life of the deal unless an event of default occurs. Usually these contracts are traded pursuant to an International Swaps and Derivatives Association (ISDA) master agreement. Most credit derivatives of this sort are credit default swaps. If the credit derivative is entered into by a financial institution or a special purpose vehicle (SPV) and payments under the credit derivative are funded using securitization techniques, such that a debt obligation is issued by the financial institution or SPV to support these obligations, this is known as a funded credit derivative.\n\nThis synthetic securitization process has become increasingly popular over the last decade, with the simple versions of these structures being known as synthetic collateralized debt obligations (CDOs), credit-linked notes or single-tranche CDOs. In funded credit derivatives, transactions are often rated by rating agencies, which allows investors to take different slices of credit risk according to their risk appetite.\n\nCredit market participants, regulators, and courts are increasingly using credit derivative pricing to help inform decisions about loan pricing, risk management, capital requirements, and legal liability.\n\nThe market in credit derivatives started from nothing in 1993 after having been pioneered by J.P. Morgan's Peter Hancock. By 1996 there was around $40 billion of outstanding transactions, half of which involved the debt of developing countries.\n\nCredit default products are the most commonly traded credit derivative product and include unfunded products such as credit default swaps and funded products such as collateralized debt obligations (see further discussion below).\n\nOn May 15, 2007, in a speech concerning credit derivatives and liquidity risk, Geithner stated: “Financial innovation has improved the capacity to measure and manage risk.” Credit market participants, regulators, and courts are increasingly using credit derivative pricing to help inform decisions about loan pricing, risk management, capital requirements, and legal liability.\nThe ISDA reported in April 2007 that total notional amount on outstanding credit derivatives was $35.1 trillion with a gross market value of $948 billion (ISDA's Website). As reported in \"The Times\" on September 15, 2008, the \"Worldwide credit derivatives market is valued at $62 trillion\".\n\nAlthough the credit derivatives market is a global one, London has a market share of about 40%, with the rest of Europe having about 10%.\n\nThe main market participants are banks, hedge funds, insurance companies, pension funds, and other corporates.\n\nCredit derivatives are fundamentally divided into two categories: funded credit derivatives and unfunded credit derivatives.\n\nAn unfunded credit derivative is a bilateral contract between two counterparties, where each party is responsible for making its payments under the contract (i.e., payments of premiums and any cash or physical settlement amount) itself without recourse to other assets.\n\nA funded credit derivative involves the protection seller (the party that assumes the credit risk) making an initial payment that is used to settle any potential credit events. (The protection buyer, however, still may be exposed to the \"credit risk\" of the \"protection seller\" itself. This is known as counterparty risk.)\n\nUnfunded credit derivative products include the following products:\n\nFunded credit derivative products include the following products:\n\nThe credit default swap or CDS has become the cornerstone product of the credit derivatives market. This product represents over thirty percent of the credit derivatives market.\n\nThe product has many variations, including where there is a basket or portfolio of reference entities, although fundamentally, the principles remain the same. A powerful recent variation has been gathering market share of late: credit default swaps which relate to asset-backed securities.\n\nA credit linked note is a note whose cash flow depends upon an event, which may be a default, change in credit spread, or rating change. The definition of the relevant credit events must be negotiated by the parties to the note.\n\nA CLN in effect combines a credit-default swap with a regular note (with coupon, maturity, redemption). Given its note-like features, a CLN is an on-balance-sheet asset, in contrast to a CDS.\n\nTypically, an investment fund manager will purchase such a note to hedge against possible down grades, or loan defaults.\n\nNumerous different types of credit linked notes (CLNs) have been structured and placed in the past few years. Here we are going to provide an overview rather than a detailed account of these instruments.\n\nThe most basic CLN consists of a bond, issued by a well-rated borrower, packaged with a credit default swap on a less creditworthy risk.\n\nFor example, a bank may sell some of its exposure to a particular emerging country by issuing a bond linked to that country's default or convertibility risk. From the bank's point of view, this achieves the purpose of reducing its exposure to that risk, as it will not need to reimburse all or part of the note if a credit event occurs. However, from the point of view of investors, the risk profile is different from that of the bonds issued by the country. If the bank runs into difficulty, their investments will suffer even if the country is still performing well.\n\nThe credit rating is improved by using a proportion of government bonds, which means the CLN investor receives an enhanced coupon.\n\nThrough the use of a credit default swap, the bank receives some recompense if the reference credit defaults.\n\nThere are several different types of securitized product, which have a credit dimension.\n\nCDO refers either to the pool of assets used to support the CLNs or the CLNs themselves.\n\nNot all collateralized debt obligations (CDOs) are credit derivatives. For example, a CDO made up of loans is merely a securitizing of loans that is then tranched based on its credit rating. This particular securitization is known as a collateralized loan obligation (CLO) and the investor receives the cash flow that accompanies the paying of the debtor to the creditor. Essentially, a CDO is held up by a pool of assets that generate cash. A CDO only becomes a derivative when it is used in conjunction with credit default swaps (CDS), in which case it becomes a Synthetic CDO. The main difference between CDOs and derivatives is that a derivative is essentially a bilateral agreement in which the payout occurs during a specific event which is tied to the underlying asset.\n\nOther more complicated CDOs have been developed where each underlying credit risk is itself a CDO tranche. These CDOs are commonly known as CDOs-squared.\n\nPricing of credit derivative is not an easy process. This is because:\n\nRisks involving credit derivatives are a concern among regulators of financial markets. The US Federal Reserve issued several statements in the Fall of 2005 about these risks, and highlighted the growing backlog of confirmations for credit derivatives trades. These backlogs pose risks to the market (both in theory and in all likelihood), and they exacerbate other risks in the financial system. One challenge in regulating these and other derivatives is that the people who know most about them also typically have a vested incentive in encouraging their growth and lack of regulation. Incentive may be indirect, e.g., academics have not only consulting incentives, but also incentives in keeping open doors for research.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16995787", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16995787", "title": "Cypriot nationality law", "text": "Cypriot nationality law\n\nThe Cypriot Nationality Laws dates back to 1967. It is mainly based on \"jus sanguinis\".\n\nThere are several ways to become a Cypriot citizen (citizen of The Republic of Cyprus) :\n\nThe first, being married to a Cypriot national, requires one to be married for at least 3 years, and have completed 2 years of residency in Cyprus prior to the date of the application. \n\nIn the case where the Cypriot national is living abroad, the applicant must either have been married to the Cypriot national for 3 years and submit an accompanying letter explaining why citizenship is desired, or have been married to the Cypriot national for 5 years and have at least one child (in which case an accompanying letter is not required). \n\nThe documents required are: \n\nTo apply through this method, one must be over 18 years old, and naturally, have Cypriot origins, as long as one was born abroad after the 16th of August 1960, with one's parent at the time of birth a Cypriot citizen. One can apply in this way if one is an individual born after the 11th of June 1999, whose mother was a Cypriot citizen at the time of one's birth.\n\nAccompanying the application must be:\n\n\nNaturalization is referred to as the process for which a non-citizen of a country, in this case Cyprus, may become a citizen of that country. The process may be done via a statute or an application to the relevant authorities. \n\nIn March 2014, the Cyprus Council of Ministers revised the \"Scheme for Naturalization of Investors in Cyprus by Exception\" as part of the government's attempts to attract foreign investors to the country. One of these attempts included a citizenship-by-investment program that granted applicants the right to live, work and study in Cyprus and in the European Union.\n\nOn September 13th, 2016 Council of Ministers of Cyprus approved a new program of financial criteria for investors wishing to obtain citizenship of Cyprus.\nApplicants applying for Cypriot citizenship through this citizenship-by-investment option must actively invest in the Cyprus economy, by primarily purchasing real estate at a minimum value of 2m Euro which must be held for at least 3 years, thereafter the property may be sold however they must maintain a property of at least 500,000 Euro indefinitely. Citizenship by investment includes the main applicant and his her spouse and unmarried dependents aged 27 and under. The main applicants parents can also be added for an additional investment of 500,000 Euro.\n\nFollowing recent amendments to procedures, citizenship is now only approved after 6 months rather than 3 months as before.\nPopular cities for real estate investment are as follows: (April 2017)\n\n\nPafos and Agia Napa are tourism town and populations fluctuates dramatically between summer and winter seasons.\n\nThree large Marina projects have now been given the go-ahead: Each set to regenerate their respective areas and therefore offer citizenship investors new options.\n\n1. Limassol Marina - 100% constructed (Aug 2017)\n2. Ayia Napa Marina - 70% complete (Nov 2018) with a completion date set for 2019\n3. Pafos Marina - Not started as yes. Funding remains an obstacle and may mean the project could be rescaled downwards.\n\nAccording to the Republic of Cyprus Citizenship Law of 1967, anyone born on or after 16 August 1960, and with at least one parent being a Cypriot citizen, automatically acquires Cypriot citizenship. Those who were born between 16 August 1960 and 1999 to a Cypriot mother abroad however, do not automatically become citizens of Cyprus, but they may register after they turn 21 years old.\n\nCyprus allows its citizens to hold foreign citizenship in addition to their Cypriot citizenship. Some countries, however, do not permit multiple citizenship e.g. adults who acquired Cypriot and Japanese citizenship by birth must declare, to the latter's Ministry of Justice, before turning 22, which citizenship they want to keep.\n\nCypriot citizens are also Commonwealth citizens as well.\n\nBecause Cyprus forms part of the European Union, Cypriot citizens are also citizens of the European Union under European Union law and thus enjoy rights of free movement and have the right to vote in elections for the European Parliament. When in a non-EU country where there is no Cypriot embassy, Cypriot citizens have the right to get consular protection from the embassy of any other EU country present in that country. Cypriot citizens can live and work in any country within the EU as a result of the right of free movement and residence granted in Article 21 of the EU Treaty.\n\nVisa requirements for Cypriot citizens are administrative entry restrictions by the authorities of other states placed on citizens of Cyprus. In As of May 2018, Cypriot citizens had visa-free or visa on arrival access to 171 countries and territories, ranking the Cypriot passport 14th in terms of travel freedom according to the Henley visa restrictions index.\n\nIn 2017, the Cypriot nationality is ranked twenty-fourth in the Nationality Index (QNI). This index differs from the Visa Restrictions Index, which focuses on external factors including travel freedom. The QNI considers, in addition to travel freedom, on internal factors such as peace & stability, economic strength, and human development as well. \n\n\n\nCitizenship by Investment Process and FASQ(https://www.citizenshippartners.com/far_cyprus_passport_malta_portugal_bulgaria)"}
{"id": "24306493", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24306493", "title": "Disownment", "text": "Disownment\n\nDisownment occurs when a parent renounces or no longer accepts a child as a family member. It differs from giving a child up for adoption. It is a social and interpersonal act and usually takes place later in the child's life. Among other things, it implies no responsibility for future care, making it similar to divorce or repudiation (of a spouse). Disownment may entail disinheritance, familial exile, or shunning, and often all three. \n\nDisownment is often taboo. In many countries it is a form of child abandonment and is illegal when the child is a minor. \n\nIn rare cases, a society and its institutions will accept an act of disownment. For example, the British politician Leo Amery had two adult sons, both young adults at the time of World War II; one fought in the British forces, while the other, John Amery, cast his lot with Nazi Germany and beamed propaganda radio broadcasts to his homeland. After the end of the war in 1945, young Amery was tried and executed for treason, whereupon the bereaved father asked, and received, permission from the editors of \"Who's Who\" to change the terms of his authorized biography from two sons to \"one son\".\n\n"}
{"id": "3070784", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3070784", "title": "Dongfeng Yueda Kia", "text": "Dongfeng Yueda Kia\n\nDongfeng Yueda Kia Motor Co., Ltd. is an automotive manufacturing company headquartered in Yancheng, China and a joint venture between Dongfeng Motor Corporation, Yueda Group and Kia Motors.\n\nDongfeng Yueda Kia was founded in 2002.\n\nIn August 2003 it was announced that Dongfeng Yueda Kia would invest around US$600 million in the construction of a new assembly\nplant in Jiangsu Province with a capacity to produce 400,000 vehicles per year.\n\nIn November 2011 Dongfeng Yueda Kia announced that it would construct its third automobile manufacturing plant in Yancheng. Construction of the plant took place between 2012 and 2014. The plant has an annual production capacity of 300,000 cars.\n\n"}
{"id": "7318603", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7318603", "title": "Ecologically sustainable development", "text": "Ecologically sustainable development\n\nEcologically sustainable development is the environmental component of sustainable development. It can be achieved partially through the use of the precautionary principle; if there are threats of serious or irreversible environmental damage, lack of full scientific certainty should not be used as a reason for postponing measures to prevent environmental degradation.\nAlso important is the principle of intergenerational equity; the present generation should ensure that the health, diversity and productivity of the environment is maintained or enhanced for the benefit of future generations. In order for this movement to flourish, environmental factors should be more heavily weighed in the valuation of assets and services to provide more incentive for the conservation of biological diversity and ecological integrity.\n\nEffective political support is necessary for ecologically sustainable development. The mobilization of governments can be translated into action plans that are crucial to sustainable development. Development efforts can be influenced by patterns of family arrangements, work attitudes, social morality—particularly interpersonal responsibilities, hierarchy of authority, quality of scientific education and implementation, and degree of domestic stability—especially, freedom from social conflict. National policy and development planning requires three conditions to permit ecological sustainability: action-oriented values to which individuals are committed, political authorities that favour long-term ecological benefits over immediate economic gains, and a policy with a politically competent constituency.\n\nCanada has taken an evidence based approach to sustainability development by using Environmental Sustainability Indicators as guiding tool for policy development. At the municipal level, many cities also use evidence based indicators and Ecological Indexes as a tools for policy development.\n\nThe World Conservation Strategy was published in 1980, becoming one of the most encouraging developments that uses a goal-oriented programme for political change concerning ecological sustainability. The publication marked a fundamental policy shift for the global conservation movement. The traditional focus became cure rather than Prevention, confirming the growing trend on the assimilation of preservation and development aims that are key to an ecologically sustainable society. Specifically, the concentration on wildlife conservation drifted into a concern for wider strains degrading the natural environment.\nIt promotes the principles of sustainable development and addresses the environmental concerns introduced by economic development decisions with a format that targets a wide audience. There are three chief conservation objectives:\nOther efforts such as the World Campaign for the Biosphere present environmental obstacles constantly before governmental and scientific authorities. Nicholas Polunin, former president of the Foundation for Environmental Conservation, believed the starting point for the World Campaign effort occurred in 1966 at an UNESCO conference in Finland. The conference examined conditions that hinder ecologically sustainable development such as rapid population growth, proliferation of nuclear weapons, and depletion of natural resources. Similarly, the Global 2000 Report to the President, presents environmental prospective conditions that are likely to worsen if public policies, institutions, and rates of technologic advancement do not change. Findings of this type prompted environmentalists and the Foundation for Environmental Conservation to initiate the World Campaign project and have included the following suggestions:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21976466", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21976466", "title": "Fraudulent Conveyances Act 1571", "text": "Fraudulent Conveyances Act 1571\n\nThe Fraudulent Conveyances Act 1571 (13 Eliz 1, c 5), also known as the Statute of 13 Elizabeth, was an Act of Parliament in England, which laid the foundations for fraudulent transactions to be unwound when a person had gone insolvent or bankrupt. The provisions contained in the 1571 Act were replaced by Part IX of the Law of Property Act 1925, which has since been replaced by Part XVI of the Insolvency Act 1986.\n\nIt is clear from the text of the statute that it was framed in a purposive manner. So if someone had the intention of defrauding a creditor, unless a transaction was made \"bona fide\" and for good consideration, it would be void.\n\nIn 1571, Parliament enacted this statute to prohibit transfers intended to defraud creditors or impede their collection efforts. This statute, known as the Statute of 13 Elizabeth, was passed in response to the widespread use of fraudulent transactions to defeat creditors. Until the 1600s, England had numerous sanctuaries not subject to the King's writ. These sanctuaries included churches but also certain areas defined by custom or royal grant. Debtors would often sell their property to friends or family at unreasonably low prices with the promise of buying it back later, move to a sanctuary, and then wait for creditors to exhaust their efforts or offer a favorable settlement.\n\n\nMany U.S. states enacted their own versions of the Statute of 13 Elizabeth after the American Revolution. The Act was later superseded by the Uniform Fraudulent Conveyances Act of 1918 (UFCA), which in turn was superseded by the Uniform Fraudulent Transfer Act of 1984 (UFTA). To date, UFTA has been enacted in 43 states and the District of Columbia.\n\nBoth the Bankruptcy Act of 1938 and the Bankruptcy Reform Act of 1978 also included their own versions of the UFCA, thus ensuring that bankruptcy trustees can \"avoid\" (in other words, reverse) fraudulent transfers made by the bankrupt person within a certain time window before they filed for bankruptcy.\n\nThe laws of England were incorporated into numerous of the colonies on specified dates. In Western Canada for example, the laws of England were incorporated as the laws of the Northwest Territories (now Saskatchewan, Alberta, the Northwest Territories and Nunavut) as at 1885. Although most former colonies have passed similar legislation, the 1571 Act may still be in effect in some jurisdictions.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19065082", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19065082", "title": "Grant v Australian Knitting Mills", "text": "Grant v Australian Knitting Mills\n\nGrant v Australian Knitting Mills, is a landmark case in consumer and negligence law from 1935, holding that where a manufacturer knows that a consumer may be injured if the manufacturer does not take reasonable care, the manufacturer owes a duty to the consumer to take that reasonable care. It continues to be cited as an authority in legal cases, and used as an example for students studying law.\n\nIn the 19th century, an action for negligence was only available if there was a particular relationship between the injured person and the person said to be negligent. The most common founding of the relationship was that of contract, but only where both people were party to the same contract, referred to as privity of contract. Thus in \"Winterbottom v Wright\", Winterbottom had a contract with the Postmaster-General to drive a mail coach, while Wright had a contract with the Postmaster-General to maintain the mail coach. Wright performed his contract negligently and a wheel fell off the coach and Winterbottom was injured. The Court of Exchequer held that because Winterbottom and Wright were not parties to the same contract, such that Wright had no liability in negligence. There was no privity of contract where goods were sold by an intermediary, or where the goods were bought on behalf of another. There were some exceptions, such as \"Langridge v Levy\" where the seller fraudulently misrepresented that the gun was safe, knowing that the gun was bought on behalf of the buyers son, and \"George v Skivington\" where a chemist negligently compounded a bottle of hair shampoo, knowing it was to be used by the plaintiff's wife. In 1932 the law of negligence however was radically altered by the House of Lords in the decision of \"Donoghue v Stevenson\", where Lord Atkin held that the particular relationships that had hitherto been held to give rise to a duty of care were but instances of a general rule that a person owed a duty of care who ought reasonably have been contemplated as being closely and directly affected by the actions.\n\nIn June 1931 Dr Grant purchased two pairs of woollen underwear and two singlets from John Martin & Co. There was nothing to say the underwear should be washed before wearing and Dr Grant did not do so. He suffered a skin irritation within nine hours of first wearing them. Dr Grant applied calamine lotion, but continued to wear the underwear for the rest of the week. He then wore the second pair for the next week and washed the first pair. This was in an era when changing his underwear only once a week was \"the ordinary custom of ordinary people\". The skin irritation got worse and developed into a severe case of dermatitis. Dr Grant blamed the underwear and sued John Martin & Co. for breach of contract, being the statutory warranties that the goods were fit for the purpose and were of merchantable quality. Dr Grant also sued the manufacturer, Australian Knitting Mills, alleging that they had been negligent in failing to take reasonable care in the preparation of the garments. The garments in question were alleged to contain an excess of sulphur compounds, variously described as sulphur dioxide and sulphites.\n\nThe case was heard in the Supreme Court of South Australia before Murray CJ over 20 days in November and December 1932 . The issues to be determined in the case were whether the underwear caused Dr Grant's dermatitis, whether Dr Grant relied on the salesman's skill & judgment, giving rise to the statutory warranty the underwear was fit for purpose, and the extent of the manufacturer's duty of care to the ultimate consumer. Murray CJ accepted evidence that the dermatitis was caused by exposure to sulphur compounds, and that the sulphur compounds were on the underwear from the scouring, bleaching and shrinking processes. Murray CJ held that the retailer was liable under the statutory warranty because Grant had asked for woollen underwear and relied on the salesman's skill in selecting the \"golden fleece\" brand manufactured by Australian Knitting Mills. The \"Sale of Goods Act\", was founded on the existence of a contract and did not apply to the claim against the manufacturer. Murray CJ applied the landmark decision of \"Donoghue v Stevenson\", which had been decided by the House of Lords less than 12 months previously, holding that the manufacturer owed a duty of care to the consumer because (1) it intended the underwear would reach the consumer for wear in the same condition as when it left the manufacturer, (2) there was no reasonable possibility of testing for the presence of sulphur compounds and (3) Australian Knitting Mills knew that the absence of reasonable care in the preparation of the garments would result in an injury to the purchaser's health. The judgment does not articulate what a reasonable manufacturer would have done differently. Dr Grant was awarded £2,450 in damages.\n\nAustralian Knitting Mills and John Martin & Co appealed to the High Court, where the case was heard over a further 6 days. The majority, Starke, Dixon and McTiernan JJ, upheld the appeal.\n\nStarke J agreed with the findings of Murray CJ that (1) the manufacturing process was the source of some of the sulphur content, but it was not possible to determine the proportion, and (2) the dermatitis was caused by sulphur compounds in the garments. Starke J however upheld the appeal, finding that Australian Knitting Mills was not negligent as it adopted a process that was prudent and reasonable. Starke J held that it was unreasonable to expect James Martin & Co to exercise skill and judgement that the goods were free from irritant chemicals when they had no means of detecting the sulphur compounds.\n\nDixon J noted that, on one view the test from \"Donoghue v Stevenson\" was limited to circumstances where the manufacturer had excluded interference with or examination of the goods, whilst the other view was that it was sufficient if the manufacturer intended the consumer to receive the article as it left the manufacturer. Dixon J did not determine which view was correct, instead holding that the evidence did not establish that the underwear had the sulphur compounds of such a strength so as to have caused Dr Grant's dermatitis. McTiernan J, as he tended to do, agreed with Dixon J, in this case writing a short concurring judgement.\n\nEvatt J dissented, holding that Dr Grant's dermatitis was caused by sulphur compounds and that the manufacturer had failed to fully or completely carry out its washing process. Evatt J dismissed the contention that there was no \"special relationship\" between the manufacturer and consumer, noting that the manufacturer provided a \"guarantee\" to the purchaser that the garments would not shrink if washed in accordance with its directions.\n\nOne of the issues was whether specific identified goods were goods \"bought by description\" within the meaning of the \"Sales of Goods Act\". Dixon J, McTiernan J agreeing, and Evatt J, held that because they were described by Dr Grant as woollen underclothing, the goods were bought by description, even though he was shown specific items.\n\nThe hearing before the Privy Council lasted 9 days, bringing the total hearing days to 35. Grant was represented by G.P Glanfield, argued that the manufacturer's duty was to render the garment safe, in terms reflecting a strict liability rather than a duty to take reasonable care. Australian Knitting Mills and James Martin & Co were represented by Wilfred Greene , and the Australian barrister Wilbur Ham , who had represented them before the High Court and had made the journey to London for the hearing. The headnote writer in the authorised reports of \"Donoguhue v Stevenson\" expressed the duty of care as being confined to ‘the manufacturer of an article of food, medicine or the like’, an argument that was adopted for Australian Knitting Mills in seeking to distinguish the case from one in which an item of clothing was to be worn externally. The other way in which they sought to distinguish \"Donoghue v Stevenson\" the sealed bottle intentionally excluded interference with or examination of the ginger beer before it reached the consumer, whereas the clothing bought by Dr Gran \"might be handled and inspected by others before reaching the\" consumer.\n\nAt the time there was no provision for dissent or separate judgments in the Privy Council. Instead the advice to the King was determined by a majority of judges who heard the appeal and one judge would be chosen to write the judgment. Decisions of the Privy Council tended to be expressed on narrow grounds, a tendency attributed to the need to reflect the agreement of the majority of judges. Lord Wright delivered the judgment of the Privy Council and identified the aspects of the decision in \"Donoghue v Stevenson\" in which the majority, Lord Thankerton, Lord Macmillan and Lord Atkin had agreed, as being the statement by Lord Atkin that: \nA manufacturer of products, which he sells in such a form as to show that he intends them to reach the ultimate consumer in the form in which they left him with no reasonable possibility of intermediate examination, and with the knowledge that the absence of reasonable care in the preparation or putting up of the products will result in an injury to the consumer's life or property, owes a duty to the consumer to take that reasonable care.\n\nThe Privy Council rejected the attempts to distinguish \"Donoghue v Stevenson\", stating \"No distinction however, can be logically drawn for this purpose between a noxious thing taken internally and a noxious thing applied externally\", and that \"The decision in \"Donoghue's Case\" did not depend on the bottle being stoppered and sealed: the essential point in this regard was that the article should reach the consumer or user subject to the same defect as it had when it\nleft the manufacturer.\"\n\nThe judgment took a narrow approach to its expression of the duty of care, limiting it to (1) manufacturers of goods, (2) the presence of deleterious chemicals could not be detected by any examination that could reasonably be made by the consumer, and (3) the risk is known to the manufacturer and unknown to the consumer.\n\nAn appellant who seeks to disturb a decision as to the facts must show the decision was wrong, having regard to the advantage of the tiral judge of seeing and hearing the witnesses. In this case the Privy Council was not satisfied that the trial Judge was wrong. In relation to the manufacturers breach of the duty, the Privy Council held that \"According to the evidence, the method of manufacture was correct: The danger of excess sulphites being left was recognized and guarded against: the process was intended to be fool proof. If excess sulphites were left in the garment, that could only be because someone was at fault\".\n\nDr Grant was held to have relied upon the skill and judgment of the retailer that the garments were fit for wearing, with the Privy Council saying: \nIt is clear that the reliance must be brought home to the mind of the seller, expressly or by implication. The reliance will seldom be express: it will usually arise by implication from the circumstances: thus to take a case like that in question, of a purchase from a retailer, the reliance will be in general inferred from the fact that a buyer goes to the shop in the confidence that the tradesman has selected his stock with skill and judgment: the retailer need know nothing about the process of manufacture: it is immaterial whether he be manufacturer or not: the main inducement to deal with a good retail shop is the expectation that the tradesman will have bought the right goods of a good make: the goods sold must be, as they were in the present case, goods of a description which it is in the course of the seller's business to supply: there is no need to specify in terms the particular purpose for which the buyer requires the goods, which is none the less the particular purpose within the meaning of the section, because it is the only purpose for which any one would ordinarily want the goods. In this case the garments were naturally intended, and only intended, to be worn next the skin.\n\nThus the Privy Council upheld the appeal, finding that the decision of the Supreme Court of South Australia was correct in finding that both the manufacturer, Australian Knitting Mills, and the retailer, James Martin & Co, were liable to the plaintiff.\n\n"}
{"id": "24189739", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24189739", "title": "Internal Revenue Code section 79", "text": "Internal Revenue Code section 79\n\nSection 79 of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code sets out the U.S. Federal income tax law concerning term life insurance plans provided by employers. Tax benefits are available for both employers and participating employees, under certain conditions.\n\nSection 79 details the tax consequences and requirements for employers wishing to install a group-term life insurance plan. Permanent life insurance may also be offered as an added benefit in a Section 79 plan. Section 79 plans are non-qualified as defined by the Internal Revenue Code, but still offer a tax deduction for sponsoring employers.\n\nAn employee must include in gross income for Federal income tax purposes an amount equal to the cost of group-term life insurance coverage on the employee's life to the extent that the cost of the coverage exceeds the sum of $50,000 plus the amount (if any) paid by the employee to purchase the coverage. Contributions to a Section 79 plan are tax-deductible, though for owner(s), and 2% or more shareholders, contributions are deductible only if paid by, and from, a C Corporation.\n\nA Section 79 benefit program may allow the following benefits.\n\n\nA section 79 plan may be used for the following applications\n\nDeath benefits can be determined by a number of different methods at the discretion of the employee: from a minimum coverage of group term insurance to a permanent benefit up to a pre-determined multiple of the employee's reported W-2 income. The tax consequences and funding commitment to the employee will be impacted by the option they choose within the plan. In the case of an employee making $245,000, if a 10× multiple is used, that employee will receive a death benefit equal to $2,450,000 ($245,000 × 10). The resulting contribution depends heavily on what product is being used for funding, as well as the employee's age and health.\n\nIn a non-discriminatory Section 79 plan, the first $50,000 of coverage is provided free to all employees. Any group coverage over this amount is deemed a benefit for which the employee must pay. The pure insurance portion is factored using the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) published Table I rates (scroll to page 5). If using permanent insurance the portion calculated as the 'permanent benefit' takes into account premium(s) paid, accumulated and cash surrender value, and other policy factors.\n\nThere are generally four main conditions which must be met when installing a Section 79 plan:\n\nIn order for a Section 79 plan to maintain its non-discriminatory form other conditions must be met:\n\nIt is possible to have what is deemed a discriminatory Section 79 plan. Under a discriminatory plan the first $50,000 of death benefit coverage is not free for owners and key employees. Cost will again be based on the IRS Table I rates. Rank and file employees maintain their free benefit whether or not the plan is discriminatory.\n\nYet another set of requirements comes into play if the company has less than 10 employees.\n\n\n\nThe cost of employer-provided group-term life insurance on the life of an employee’s spouse or dependent, paid by the employer, is not taxable to the employee if the face amount of the coverage does not exceed $2,000. This coverage is excluded as a \"de minimis\" fringe benefit.\nSome cases may allow more.\n\n"}
{"id": "16286010", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16286010", "title": "International Commission of Inquiry Into the 1932–33 Famine in Ukraine", "text": "International Commission of Inquiry Into the 1932–33 Famine in Ukraine\n\nThe International Commission of Inquiry Into the 1932–1933 Famine in Ukraine was set up in 1984 and was initiated by the World Congress of Free Ukrainians to study and investigate the 1932-1933 Famine in Ukraine. Members of Commission selected and invited by World Congress of Free Ukrainians. None of them represent own country or country authority/institution and act as individual. Most of them (5 out of 7) are retired jurists, one of them (Colonel G.I.A.D. Draper) died before Commission finish their investigations. The Commission was funded by donations from the worldwide Ukrainian diaspora.\n\nThe idea for the formation of an International Commission to investigate 1932-1933 Famine in Ukraine was suggested by Toronto lawyer V.-Yu. Danyliv at the 4th Conference of the World Congress of Free Ukrainians held in December 1983. According to the resolution the commission was to be initiated in New York City in December 1984 and headed by Ignat Bilinsky. Danyliv consulted with justice John Sopinka, lawyers Pavlo Chumak, Stepan Rozsokha and the Canadian Minister for Justice. The Commission had its first meeting in May 1988 in Brussels and was chaired by Professor emeritus Jacob Sundberg. His findings were delivered to the UN Under-Secretary for Human Rights in Geneva on May 9, and to the President of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe on May 10, 1990.\n\nDocumentary evidence exhibits entered into Commission presented predominantly by World Congress of Free Ukrainians, including “Harvest of Sorrow” by Robert Conquest and many other documents by same author, James Mace as also books Ukrainian Diaspora like “Ukrainian Holocaust of 1933” by Wasyl Hryshko, “Black Deeds of Kremlin” 2 Vol by Dobrus and Pidhaynyy, V.Kubiyovych work etc.\n\nThe Commission also examined Douglas Tottle's controversial book \"Fraud, Famine, and Fascism: the Ukrainian Genocide Myth from Hitler to Harvard\", in which he asserts that claims the Holodomor was an intentional genocide are \"fraudulent\", and \"a creation of Nazi propagandists\". Tottle was invited by the commission to attend the hearings, however he ignored the request. The commission president Professor Jacob Sundberg subsequently concluded that Tottle was not alone in his enterprise to deny the famine on the basis that material included in his book could not have been available to a private person without official Soviet assistance.\n\nWorld Congress of Free Ukrainians as petitioner invited a commission to find what the famine was an act of genocide. This invitation resulted in Commission splitting into a number of separate opinions. The Commission majority (5 out of 6) deems it plausible that the constituent elements of genocide were in existence at the time of the famine.\n\nIn the commission's final report, published in 1990, it reached the following conclusions:\n\n\nThe final report was also published in Russian: The International Commission of Inquiry famine in Ukraine years 1932-1933 Final Report in 1990, Kiev - 1992 (Международная комиссия по расследованию голода на Украине 1932—1933 годов Итоговый отчёт 1990 г., Киев −1992).\n\nThe only dissenting opinion came from Professor Sundberg, who concluded that:\n\n\"the evidence shows that the famine situation was well-known in Moscow from the bottom to the top. Very little or nothing was done to provide some relief to the starving masses. On the contrary, a great deal was done to deny the famine, to make it invisible to visitors, and to prevent relief being brought.\n"}
{"id": "57512164", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57512164", "title": "Journal of Law and Society", "text": "Journal of Law and Society\n\nThe Journal of Law and Society is a quarterly peer-reviewed law journal which publishes papers in the field of the sociology of law. It was established in 1974 as the British Journal of Law and Society, obtaining its current name in 1982. It is published by John Wiley & Sons on behalf of the Cardiff School of Law and Politics. Since its founding, the journal's editor-in-chief has been Philip Thomas (Cardiff School of Law and Politics). According to the \"Journal Citation Reports\", the journal has a 2016 impact factor of 0.796, ranking it 81st out of 149 journals in the category \"Law\" and 87th out of 143 journals in the category \"sociology\".\n"}
{"id": "9700387", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9700387", "title": "Lacey Act of 1900", "text": "Lacey Act of 1900\n\nThe Lacey Act of 1900, or simply the Lacey Act () is a conservation law in the United States that prohibits trade in wildlife, fish, and plants that have been illegally taken, possessed, transported, or sold.\n\nIntroduced into Congress by Rep. John F. Lacey, an Iowa Republican, the Act was signed into law by President William McKinley on May 25, 1900. It protects both plants and wildlife by creating civil and criminal penalties for those who violate the rules and regulations. The law authorizes the Secretary of the Interior to aid in restoring game and birds in parts of the U.S. where they have become extinct or rare. It also regulates introduction of birds and other animals to places where they have never existed before. \n\nThe law is still in effect and has been amended several times.\n\nIn 1900, illegal commercial hunting threatened many game species in the United States. The original Act was directed at the preservation of game and wild birds, making it a federal crime to poach game in one state with the purpose of selling the bounty in another. The law prohibited the transportation of illegally captured or prohibited animals across state lines, and addressed potential problems caused by the introduction of non-native species of birds and animals into native ecosystems.\n\nToday, the Lacey Act is used primarily to prevent the importation or spread of potentially dangerous non-native species. The Act also makes it unlawful to import, export, transport, sell, receive, acquire, or purchase in interstate or foreign commerce any plant in violation of the laws of the United States, a state, a Native American tribe, or any foreign law that protects plants.\n\nThe Lacey Act was amended on May 22, 2008, when the Food, Conservation, and Energy Act of 2008 expanded its protection to a broader range of plants and plant products (Section 8204. Prevention of Illegal Logging Practices), largely championed by Senator Ron Wyden (D) Oregon, with some arguing that the motivation for the act was to protect US lumber jobs and the supply-chain reporting provisions encountered opposition from the wood industry including objections to the burden of reporting. \n\nAs a result, between 2009-2012 there was opposition to the bill, leading to the failed introduction of RELIEF Act (2011 H.R. 3210), which died in June 2012.\n\nThis issue attained media prominence in September 2011. Speaker John Boehner cited the Gibson Guitar controversy (see below) in his response to President Obama’s jobs speech.\n\nThe United States Fish and Wildlife Service announced a ban under the Act effective March 23, 2012, on the importation and interstate transportation of four species of constrictor snakes, due to the snakes' impact upon the Florida Everglades.\n\nGibson Guitar Corporation was raided twice by federal authorities in 2009 and 2011. Federal prosecutors seized wood from Gibson facilities, alleging that Gibson had purchased smuggled Madagascar ebony and Indian rosewood. Gibson initially denied wrongdoing and insisted that the federal government was bullying them. \n\nIn August 2012, Gibson entered into a Criminal Enforcement Agreement with the Department of Justice, admitting to violating the Lacey Act. The terms of the agreement required Gibson to pay a fine of $300,000 in addition to a $50,000 community payment, and to abide by the terms of the Lacey Act in the future.\n\nFor violating the Lacey Act, Lumber Liquidators was sentenced to $13.15 million in penalties, five years of probation, and additional government oversight for illegal lumber trafficking. The U.S. Department of Justice said it was the largest financial penalty ever issued under the Lacey Act.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15605490", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15605490", "title": "Law of Ukraine", "text": "Law of Ukraine\n\nThe legal system of Ukraine is based on the framework of civil law, and belongs to the Romano-Germanic legal tradition. The main source of legal information is codified law. Customary law and case law are not as common, though case law is often used in support of the written law, as in many other legal systems. Historically, the Ukrainian legal system is primarily influenced by the French civil code, Roman Law, and traditional Ukrainian customary law. The new civil law books (enacted in 2004) were heavily influenced by the German Bürgerliches Gesetzbuch .\n\nThe primary law making body is the Ukrainian Parliament (\"Verkhovna Rada\"), also referred to as the legislature (). The power to make laws can be delegated to lower governments or specific organs of the State, but only for a prescribed purpose. In recent years, it has become common for the legislature to create \"framework laws\" and delegate the creation of detailed rules to ministers or lower governments (e.g. a province or municipality). After laws are published in Holos Ukrayiny they come into force officially the next day.\n\nUkrainian politicians and analysts have described the system of justice in Ukraine as \"rotten to the core\".\n\nUkrainian law is commonly divided into Public law, Private law, and International law.These areas of the legal system are further subdivided into Civil law (including Family law, Inheritance law, Contract law and Commercial law, Law of Obligations, Property law, Intellectual property law, Companies law, Land law, and Tort law), Criminal law, Constitutional law (including laws on the structure of the state), Administrative law, and International law.\n\nCivil law regulates the everyday life of citizens and other legal entities, such as corporations. The main code of Ukrainian civil law is the Civil Code of Ukraine. It comprises provisions governing ownership, intellectual property rights, contracts, torts, obligations, inheritance law, and the definition of legal entities. The code introduces new types of business contracts into the legal practice, including factoring, franchising, rent service, and inherited contracts. Civil litigation is governed by the Civil Procedural Code of Ukraine.\n\nCriminal law deals with the prosecution and punishment of criminal offenses. The Criminal Code of Ukraine contains the written criminal laws of Ukraine. There is no capital punishment in Ukraine. The maximum criminal punishment is life imprisonment, which can be reduced by decree of the President of Ukraine to 25 years of imprisonment, but only after 20 years of sentence service. The Parliament of Ukraine has the power of amnesty for prisoners not serving life sentences. Criminal proceedings, investigation, and court examination in criminal trials are regulated by The Criminal Procedural Code of Ukraine, which was not changed since 1962 when Ukraine was a republic of the Soviet Union till the Ukrainian Parliament passed the new Code of Criminal Procedure in April 2012.\n\nConstitutional law frames the constitution and the structure of Ukraine. It regulates the powers of democratic institutions, the organization of elections and the division of power between central and local government. See also the article on the Constitution of Ukraine. Only the Constitutional Court of Ukraine is allowed to determine the constitutionality of laws created by the legislature.\n\nAdministrative law is the area of law that regulates the operation of the various levels of Ukrainian Government, including the process for people and legal entities to appeal decisions by the government. This code is referred to as the Administrative Code of Ukraine.\n\nInternational law, also referred to as the Law of Nations, involves the application of international laws in Ukraine. International agreements, ratified by the Parliament of Ukraine, are a part of Ukrainian legislation. The Constitution of Ukraine allows the direct application of most international laws in Ukrainian courts. If an international agreement of Ukraine prescribes rules other than those set by the Law of Ukraine, the rules of that international agreement shall apply. Laws regulating jurisdiction with an international aspect, such as because parties come from different countries, are not part of international law, but form a specific branch of civil law.\n\nOn September 2005, the Law of Ukraine on Private International Law was enacted. The Law sets the procedure for the regulation of private legal relations which are subject to other legal systems in addition to that of Ukraine.\n\nThe Commercial Code of Ukraine describes the details for compliance with the Constitution of Ukraine's clauses for commercial activity. The Code regulates the fundamentals of commercial activity, including business entities, property basis, responsibility for violations, peculiarities of legal regulation, and foreign commerce regulation.\n\n\nUkrainian legal liability includes constitutional liability, which is imposed on President or Deputy [Member of Parliament] by the Parliament of Ukraine, criminal liability, which is imposed by local courts in the form of sentencing, civil liability, which is imposed by local courts in the form of decision, administrative liability, which is imposed by administrative courts in form of decision, and disciplinary liability, which is imposed by superior officials or specially created organizations.\n\nJudges are imposed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Attorneys at law are imposed by the Disciplinary Bar Commission. Notaries are imposed by the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine. Public prosecutors are imposed by regional Superior officials. Policemen are imposed by Superior officials.\n\nThe Constitution of Ukraine is a supreme law of Ukraine. Laws and other legislation should be adopted on its basis and conform to it.\n\nBecause Ukrainian legal system is code-based, there are a number of codified laws in the main spheres of national legislation. These include: \n\nOnly the Parliament of Ukraine is entitled to issue normative acts in the form of laws. The laws of Ukraine are the highest normative acts in Ukraine.\n\nThe secondary legislation of Ukraine comprises other normative acts including decrees, resolutions, and orders issued by the President of Ukraine, Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, National Bank of Ukraine, ministries and other state agencies. They are adopted on the basis and in realization of the general provisions of laws.\n\nUkraine's court system is widely regarded as corrupt. Ukrainian judges have been arrested while taking bribes.\n\nCourts in Ukraine are divided by jurisdiction including constitutional courts, general (criminal and civil jurisdiction) courts, economic courts, and administrative courts. There is also the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, the Supreme Court of Ukraine, Appellate Courts (in every Region oblast of Ukraine), and District Courts in every city, town, or raion (which is a subdivision of oblast). As well, there is the High Administrative Court of Ukraine, Local Administrative Courts in every administrative district, usually oblast, the High Commercial Court of Ukraine, Local Commercial Courts in every administrative district, usually oblast, and Military court in every Appellate Court in every regional oblast. There is also the Tertiary Court created in accordance to the law \"On Tertiary Court\" and registered in Ministry of Justice of Ukraine.\n\nIn order to become a judge in Ukraine, one must be 25 years old. Newly inducted judges are appointed by the President of Ukraine and serve for five years. Afterwards, judges are elected for life by the Parliament of Ukraine. Judges are not elected by the citizenry as practiced in many western countries. The judicial branch of power in Ukraine is not completely independent. To detain or arrest a judge, special permission by the Parliament of Ukraine is needed. \n\nA judge shall not refer to political parties and trade unions, as well as participate in any political activity, have representative mandate, occupy any other paid posts, or do any other paid work except that which is scientific in nature, teaching or creative value. According to the law, a judge, while executing justice, shall follow the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine and shall ensure full, thorough and objective consideration of the cases adhering to the terms set by law. They are also obliged to take measures concerning prevention of unauthorized dissemination of the information the state and/or commercial entity considers secret or is confidential and became known to him/her in the process of doing official duties. Moreover, the Law requires a judge to refrain from the actions that defame a judge and may cause doubt that she/he is objective, as well as unprejudiced and independent.\n\nThe Law sets the system of guarantees of judge's professional activity which are necessary to approve unprejudiced and objective decisions. The Law guarantees to judges their personal immunity, secrecy of court decisions, legal protection, as well as material and social provision. The Law also prohibits any not envisaged by law interference in judge's activity concerning justice execution, detention or arrest of a judge without the consent of the \"Verkhovna Rada\" until bill of indictment concerning him/her is carried out by the court.\n\nUkraine has taken steps to reform its education frameworks in consistence with the Bologna process. By the mid-2000s, Universities started granting undergraduate Bachelor of Laws degrees (about 3 years for full-time students and 4 years for part-time students) and graduate Master of Laws degrees (about 5 years for full-time students and 6 years for part-time students). In Soviet times, the only undergraduate degree (following a 10-year secondary education) was a 5-year Specialist Diploma, with a thesis requirement, usually placing it somewhere between a bachelor's and master's degree in the West. Degrees are awarded by authorities of the State Examination Board of University. The University degree gives people the right to engage in professional legal activities in Ukraine as a legal advisor. However, judges and criminal defense attorneys must take an additional state licensing exam.\n\nThe post-graduate system has not been reformed. Law academic degrees in Ukraine are the Candidate of Science of Jurisprudence (CSJ) and Doctor of Science of Jurisprudence (DSJ), equivalent to Doctor of the Science of Law (L.Sc.D.)\nThe Diploma is awarded after the successful defense of dissertation (thesis) by the Higher Attestation Commission (VAK). Full text of all defended dissertations are kept in the Vernadsky National Library of Ukraine.\n\nScientific degrees awarded by VAK are classified into an established list of specialties, grouped into the following major sections.\n\n\nA database of all practicing Doctors of Science of Jurisprudence is maintained by the Ministry of Education of Ukraine.\n\nA docent of a university is one who has the right to teach. The qualifications include one dissertation (CSJ) and demonstrating the competence of conducting scientific research independently.\n\nA professor of a university is one who has the right to teach. The qualifications include one dissertation (doctoral degree (DSJ)) and demonstrating the competence of conducting scientific research independently.\n\nThe title Academician denotes a full member of the National Academy of Sciences of Law.\n\nThere also exists a lower-rank title, variously translated Corresponding Member or Associate Member of the National academy of Sciences of Law.\n\nLaw is practiced in Ukraine by jurists (legal consultants, counsels, attorneys), professionals awarded a diploma after graduation from a law faculty of a university. Law offices are maintained by lawyers who register it as a law firm in the Ministry of Justice, and are awarded state certification.\n\nThe Constitution of Ukraine defines an attorney's work as \"securing the right for protection against accusation and provide legal assistance while considering cases in courts and other state bodies in Ukraine\". In this case, the Law “On the Bar and Advocate's Activity” defines the Bar as a voluntary professional public association.\n\nIn order to defend a person charged with criminal offense, a person must be an attorney. An attorney under the Law “On the Bar and Advocate's Activity” can be a person who has higher legal education, stated by the diploma of Ukraine, or in line with the international treaties of Ukraine diploma of a foreign country, the work experience in the field of law no less than two years, fluent in the Language of the State, has passed a qualification exam, received a certificate entitling him to practice law, and taken the Ukrainian Oath of the Attorney.\n\nThe Law determines that attorneys cannot hold a previous conviction. The Law also stipulates that the attorney cannot work in court, a prosecutor's or state notary's office, bodies of internal affairs, security service, or state administration bodies.\n\nIn order to defend a person charged with criminal offense, an attorney must have a certificate entitling him to practice law (issued by Regional Qualification-Disciplinary Bar Commission) or a Power of Attorney letter.\nThere are 25 Regional Qualifications- Disciplinary Bar Commissions in Ukraine: each in every Region (oblast) and one in the City of Kiev and the City of Sevastopol.\n\nA list of attorneys is kept and published by the Supreme Qualification Bar Commission of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine.\n\nTo represent a client in a non-criminal case or to be an in-house a person must have a higher legal education.\n\nA list of law firms is kept and published on the official website of Ministry of Justice of Ukraine.\n\nA list of lawyers from Kiev University List of Taras Shevchenko National University of Kyiv people.\n\nA list of lawyers from Ukraine List of jurists.\n\nNotary in Ukraine is based on the guidelines set forth by the law entitled \"On Notariate\". According to the law, the Notariate is a system of bodies and officials obliged to certify rights, certify facts that have legal force and perform other notary actions as stated in the law with the purpose of giving them legal force.\nIn Ukraine, notary operations are carried out by state notaries, private notaries or officials of executive bodies of local (village, settlement, city) councils, if there are no notaries therein. The difference between state and private notaries is the service fees imposed by public notaries are fixed by the state, whereas the only aspect regulated by the State in regards to private notaries is the price floor.\n\nAny person who considers occupation of the notary post must be a citizen of Ukraine, have higher legal education (university, academy, institute), work on probation during 6 months in a state notary office or at private notary, pass a qualification exam and receive a certificate permitting notary actions. A person with any outstanding convictions cannot be a notary by law.\n\nThe Certificate permitting notary activities may be abrogated by the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine in the following cases:\n- on notary's own initiative;\n- loss of Ukrainian citizenship or departure to permanent residence outside Ukraine;\n- notary's non-conformity to the occupied post because of health condition preventing him from accomplishment of notary activities;\n- coming into force of conviction sentence against notary.\n\nNotaries are not allowed by law to work in courts, police, and prosecutor offices, nor represent citizens in courts or any other government offices. The major role of notaries in Ukraine is to notarize documents and contracts between persons in accordance to Civil Code of Ukraine. Every notarized document, agreement, contract, etc. is issued on numerated, special paper form, protected by security features and is registered in the notary's records which is kept after completion in regional (oblast) archives indefinitely. A notary database is kept and accessible to public on the official website of the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine. As of 2007, about 13,000 registered notaries practice in Ukraine.\n\nCriminal Investigations are carried out under official authority by law enforcement personnel\nsuch as the Police, the tax police (tax militia), Public Procurators (Public Prosecutors), and the Security Service of Ukraine.\n\nIn Ukraine and other civil law jurisdictions, the jury holds equal power to three professional judges. The jury and judges first consider the question of guilt. Then, if applicable, they consider the penalty to apply. Juries are only used for severe felony cases with a ten-year or higher sentence.\n\nThe State Department of Ukraine for Enforcement of Sentences oversees the prison system of Ukraine.\n\nAs of 2007, the total prison population in Ukraine was 240,000 people out of the 48 million population.\n\nPrisons in Ukraine are classified as pre-trial or remand prisons (SIZO), high security prisons, medium security prisons, and low security prisons.\n\nThose who are charged with criminal offenses which entail sentencing for three years or more are arrested and held before trial in investigative isolation during the period of criminal investigation and after sentencing is moved to the prison as indicated by the courts in the sentencing decision. Bail is rarely used by courts in Ukraine.\n\nIn Ukraine, every person over 18 years of age must carry a passport or (for foreigners) an alien document. A person unable to provide passport is allowed to be arrested and held in police custody for up to 72 hours in order to establish the identity thereof.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53470829", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53470829", "title": "Law of carriage of goods by sea", "text": "Law of carriage of goods by sea\n\nThe law of carriage of goods by sea is a body of law that governs the rights and duties of shippers, carriers and consignees of marine cargo. \n\nPrimarily concerned with cargo claims, this body of law is an aspect of international commercial law and maritime law.\n\nConsignees (or indeed any lawful holder of the bill of lading) who wishes to make a cargo claim because their goods are substandard or have been lost or damaged at sea, typically have four options: \nA claim having been paid, the assured's rights of claim will be subrogated to the insurer, who may consider proceeding against a party who has caused the damage.\n\nA shipowner may sue a time-charterer or voyage-charterer in the event of breach of contract. For instance, if the charterer exceeds laytime, demurrage will have to be paid; and if the charterer cannot comply with a Notice of Readiness (NOR), the shipowner may repudiate (cancel) the contract of carriage and claim damages for any loss.\n\nIn most contracts of carriage the carrier has greater bargaining power than the shipper, and in the 19th century English judges developed rules to protect the weaker parties. Beginning with the Hague Rules, the various conventions set out to codify and develop such common law principles by providing an international set of basic standards to be met by the carrier, with a view to establishing a universal framework of legal rights and duties. In practice, however, the level of protection was actually reduced because of new provisions allowing the carrier to (i) limit his liability, and (ii) rely on a wide array of exemptions from liability Also, whereas up until about 1885, the carrier's duties were deemed to be strict, by 1905 the duty became one of \"reasonable care\" or \"due diligence\" only.\n\nThe Hague Rules of 1924 effectively codified, albeit in a diluted form, the English common law rules to protect the cargo owner against exploitation by the carrier. Nearly 50 years later, the Hague-Visby \"update\" made few changes, so that the newer Rules still applied only to \"tackle to tackle\" carriage (i.e. carriage by sea) and the container revolution of the 1950s was virtually ignored. The Hague-Visby Rules both excluded cabotage carriage, and declared that deck cargo and live animals were not to be considered as \"goods\" (although the Carriage of Goods by Sea Act 1971 provided that cabotage, deck cargo and live animals are to be covered in English contracts). \n\nThe enormous list of exemptions to liability in Article IV made the Rules seem biased in favour of the carrier. As a result, The United Nations produced its own Hamburg Rules which were both more modern and fairer to cargo-owners; but while these have been enthusiastically adopted by developing nations, the wealthier ship-owning nations have stuck to Hague-Visby. In 2008 the final text of the Rotterdam Rules was agreed at UNCITRAL. These Rules are very extensive, with over 90 Articles against 11 in Hague-Visby. Although the Rotterdam Rules are up-to-date and address multimodal carriage, they have, nine years later, yet to be in force. It now seems doubtful that the Rotterdam Rules will ever be adopted, but there is a slim possibility that a cut-down version of the Rules (\"Rotterdam Lite\") might find favour.\n\nChina has effectively adopted the Hague Rules. The USA, which tends to shun conventions and instead rely on homespun legislation, has its own statutes. These comprise the Carriage of Goods by Sea Act (a mildly updated version of the Hague Rules for goods in foreign commerce), and the Harter Act (for mostly domestic carriage).\n\n"}
{"id": "7109203", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7109203", "title": "Local Government Boundary Commission", "text": "Local Government Boundary Commission\n\nLocal Government Boundary Commission could be the\n"}
{"id": "2032558", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2032558", "title": "Locally unwanted land use", "text": "Locally unwanted land use\n\nIn land-use planning, a locally unwanted land use (LULU) is a land use that creates externality costs on those living within close proximity. These costs include potential health hazards, poor aesthetics, or reduction in home values. Such facilities with such hazards need to be created for the greater benefits that they offer society.\n\nLULUs can include power plants, dumps (landfills), prisons, roads, factories, hospitals and many other developments. Planning seeks to distribute and reduce the harm of LULUs by zoning, environmental laws, community participation, buffer areas, clustering, dispersing and other such devices. Thus planning tries to protect property and environmental values by finding sites and operating procedures that minimize the LULU's effects.\n\n\nAn externality is something that happens as a result of a transaction that affects an uninvolved third party. LULU's present externalities in various ways, most notably those that inflict the senses: harsh smell, reduced aesthetics, noise pollution, and poor livability.\nIt has been suggested that a correlation exists between the location of sites considered as locally unwanted land uses and the proximity to minority populations as a result of market dynamics. That is, externalities associated with LULUs (such as poor aesthetics, lack of desirable amenities, etc.) tend to discourage high-earning buyers from moving to the area, and thus perpetuate the cycle in which low income individuals have few choices except those which happen to be in areas with LULUs such as landfills and highways. This tends to lower home values. Further, the same market forces, especially those that may discriminate against minorities, could make it so that these areas happen to be populated predominantly by minorities.\n\nThroughout the United States, \"three out of five African Americans and Latino Americans live in communities with abandoned toxic waste sites.\" This pattern is typically seen because of discrimination and racism throughout the infrastructure development process. It is becoming more and more common. What makes a LULU such as this unique is that they cause displacement, whereas a landfill, dump, roads, or prisons simply discourage home-buyers from entering the area and keep home prices low. High-end health food stores such as Whole Foods causes displacement by attracting high-earning home buyers into the area, causing rents and home prices to rise. This has been dubbed the \"Whole Foods effect\".\n\nThe \"Whole Foods Effect\", among other amenities being added to neighborhoods in growing communities across the U.S., is one sign pointing toward the larger problem of gentrification. Gentrification is a process of renovation and revival of deteriorated urban neighborhoods. With this process often comes LULU's such as Whole Foods, luxury housing, etc.\n\nSan Francisco, like many other large cities in the United States, has a high cost of living. Its proximity to the Silicon Valley lends itself well to attracting high-income home buyers. As of 2013, 53% of low-income households throughout the entirety of the bay area were undergoing gentrification pressures caused by transit investment and new developments.\n\nBoston has been known historically for the high-cost of living that accompanies residence there, as well as being subject to various Urban renewal projects during America's Urban Renewal era. These renewal projects often caused the displacement of Jewish and Italian immigrants as well as working class individuals in surrounding areas in its earliest years.\n\nSuperfund, or the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980, was created to mitigate the cleanup and costs thereafter of hazardous waste sites. Superfund sites are often thought of when discussing LULUs. Love Canal was the first superfund site, established because of chemical waste that was being dumped into the canal by Hooker Electrical Company, later known as Hooker Chemical Company. The incident attracted widespread media attention and the neighborhoods surrounding Love Canal have since been destroyed. It has been suggested that some of these sites tend to be located in areas that have a high number of low-income, minority residents.\n\nOf the 1,000+ Superfund sites in America, 25% of them (both capped and active) are situated directly on or near Native American reservations. Many of these sites can interfere with various rituals and affect cultural objects, and create further conflict between the Government and affected tribes. As discussed in a report from the All Indian Pueblo's Office of Environmental Protection, \"the Superfund HRS [Hazard Ranking System] model does not account for Indian religious and ceremonial impacts from sites. Due to their importance in Pueblo life, culturally significant plants, animals, ceremonial surface water use, and sacred areas should be considered as critical impacts when evaluating the various pathways of exposure of the HRS.”\n\nThe environmental justice movement began after the discovery of illegal dumping throughout 14 North Carolina counties. 31,000 gallons of Polychlorinated biphenyl (PCB) was dumped by the Ward Transformers Company throughout these counties. The state government in North Carolina devised a landfill diversion plan for this waste after discovering the dumping, but the landfill was sited in Warren County, which had the greatest concentration of African American residents of all North Carolina's 100 counties, and was also the most poor, ranking 97th in GDP of the counties in North Carolina. The environmental justice movement was made popular by the emphasis on wildlife protection and wilderness preservation during the 20th century, but this presented cost barriers to poorer individuals whose concerns were not with wildlife and wilderness preservation. By virtue of the fact that this movement was not championed by poor people in its formative stages, it has caused these individuals to view the movement as \"elitist.\" This elitism is understood through three different forms, according to a study by Denton E. Morrison and Riley E. Dunlap:\nOne of the greatest barriers to entry for poor individuals to join in the environmental justice movement is legal fees. In order to try and prevent the kinds of pollution like that of Warren County, NC, there are a great number of legal fees involved which are often costly. To that end, many of the companies that produce pollution will encourage acceptance of this pollution by communities in order to avoid clean up costs and costs associated with making certain industries more environmentally sustainable. That is, the cost of paying communities to accept pollution is often less than the (initial) cost/s of avoiding pollution all together. Therefore, it can be ascertained that poorer communities are likely to accept compensation for a certain level of pollution, and wealthier communities are willing to accept a smaller amount of pollution and demand a greater level of environmental quality. The difference is that one group is able to pay for environmental quality, and the other group is not.\n\n"}
{"id": "659632", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=659632", "title": "McKenzie friend", "text": "McKenzie friend\n\nA McKenzie friend assists a litigant in person in a court of law in England and Wales, Northern Ireland, the Republic of Ireland and Australia. This person does not need to be legally qualified. The crucial point is that litigants in person (known as \"party litigants\" in Scotland) are entitled to have assistance, lay or professional, unless there are exceptional circumstances.\n\nTheir role was set out most clearly in the eponymous 1970 case \"McKenzie v McKenzie\". Although in many cases a McKenzie friend may be an actual friend, it is often somebody with knowledge of the area, and the trend is heavily in favour of admitting McKenzie friends. He or she may be liable for any misleading advice given to the litigant in person but is not covered by professional indemnity insurance.\n\nThe role is distinct from that of a next friend or of an \"amicus curiae\". A similar, modified principle exists in Singapore.\n\n\"McKenzie v. McKenzie\" was a divorce case in England. Levine McKenzie, who was petitioning for divorce, had been legally aided but the legal aid had been withdrawn before the case went to court. Unable to fund legal representation, McKenzie had broken off contact with his solicitors, Geoffrey Gordon & Co.. However, one day before the hearing, Geoffrey Gordon & Co. sent the case to an Australian barrister in London, Ian Hanger, whose qualifications in law in Australia did not allow him to practise as a barrister in London. Hanger hoped to sit with his client to prompt him, take notes and suggest questions in cross-examination, thereby providing what quiet assistance he could from the bar table to a man representing himself. The trial judge ordered Hanger not to take any active part in the case (except to advise McKenzie during adjournments) and to sit in the public gallery of the court. Hanger assumed his limited role was futile and did not return for the second day of the trial.\n\nThe case went against McKenzie, who then appealed to the Court of Appeal on the basis that he had been denied representation. On 12 June 1970, the Court of Appeal ruled that the judge's intervention had deprived McKenzie of the assistance to which he was entitled and ordered a retrial.\n\nIan Hanger AM QC, the original McKenzie friend, is now a Queen's Counsel (QC) at the Queensland Bar.\n\nIn September 2006, the Subordinate Courts of Singapore started a pilot project called the Lay Assistant Scheme in which persons, usually with some legal knowledge, attend hearings with litigants who are not represented by lawyers to advise them on non-legal issues and help them with administrative tasks. The scheme, a modification of the U.K.'s McKenzie friend system, is intended to assist litigants who are not eligible for legal aid as they have an annual salary exceeding S$10,000 but cannot afford a lawyer. For the litigant to qualify, the other party must be legally represented.\n\nLay assistants are not allowed to act as lawyers and may not address the court; any breach of court rules may render them liable to a maximum fine of $1,000 or imprisonment of up to six months.\n\nPlans for introducing McKenzie friends in court proceedings were first announced by Chief Justice Chan Sek Keong in May 2006. Students from the Pro Bono Group of the Faculty of Law, National University of Singapore, have been participating in the scheme.\n\nIn English courts, where a case is being heard in private, the use of a McKenzie friend has sometimes been contentious. This is a particular problem in family court hearings, where it has been held that the nature of the case is so confidential that no one other than the litigants and their professional legal representatives should be admitted to the court.\n\nA 2005 Court of Appeal case, \"In the matter of the children of Mr O'Connell, Mr Whelan and Mr Watson\", clarified the law in this area. The result of the appeal has legitimised the use of McKenzie friends in the family court and allowed the litigant to disclose confidential court papers to the McKenzie friend.\n\nEngland and Wales allow fee charging McKenzie friends, who may charge for their services, including the giving of legal advice. A recent report by the Legal Service Consumer Panel found that fee charging McKenzie friends were a net benefit. The report stated, \"They should be viewed as providing valuable support that improves access to justice in the large majority of cases.\"\n\nScotland has a separate legal system from England and Wales. The first recorded use of McKenzie friends in Scotland was in April 2007 in the case \"TB & AM v. The Authority Reporter\". The one major difference between England and Scotland is that in Scotland McKenzie friends are not permitted to receive remuneration.\n\n"}
{"id": "34548729", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34548729", "title": "Moldovan constitutional referendum, 1999", "text": "Moldovan constitutional referendum, 1999\n\nA consultative constitutional referendum was held in Moldova on 23 May 1999. It was initiated by President Petru Lucinschi and asked voters whether they approved of changing the system of government to a presidential system. The proposal was approved by 64.2% of voters. However, the Party of Communists of the Republic of Moldova and the Alliance for Democracy and Reforms opposed Lucinschi, and were able to vote several constitutional changes through parliament on 5 July 2000. The changes reduced the powers of the president and strengthened the parliament and government.\n"}
{"id": "780275", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=780275", "title": "NUMMI", "text": "NUMMI\n\nNew United Motor Manufacturing, Inc. (NUMMI) was an automobile manufacturing company in Fremont, California, jointly owned by General Motors and Toyota that opened in 1984 and closed in 2010. On October 27, 2010, its former plant reopened as a 100% Tesla Motors-owned production facility, known as the Tesla Factory. The plant is located in the East Industrial area of Fremont between Interstate 880 and Interstate 680.\n\nNUMMI was established at the former General Motors Fremont Assembly site that closed in 1982; it had been a GM plant since 1962. GM and Toyota reopened the factory as a joint venture in 1984 to manufacture vehicles to be sold under both brands.\n\nGM saw the joint venture as an opportunity to learn about lean manufacturing from the Japanese company, while Toyota gained its first manufacturing base in North America and a chance to implement its Taylorism-inspired production system in an American labor environment, avoiding possible import restrictions. GM employees went to Toyota's Takaoka plant in Japan and improved production at NUMMI, Spring Hill and other sites, particularly after Jack Smith spread the program.\n\nUp to May 2010, NUMMI built an average of 6000 vehicles a week, or nearly eight million cars and trucks since opening in 1984. In 1997, NUMMI produced 357,809 cars and trucks, peaking at 428,633 units in 2006.\n\nGM pulled out of the venture in June 2009 due to its bankruptcy, and several months later Toyota announced plans to pull out by March 2010. The closure was opposed by city officials, including Fremont Mayor Bob Wasserman, who lobbied to keep NUMMI in the city. However, at 9:40am on April 1, 2010, the plant produced its last car, a red Toyota Corolla S believed to be destined for a museum in Japan. Production of Corollas in North America moved to Toyota Motor Manufacturing Mississippi's assembly plant in Blue Springs, Mississippi and Toyota Motor Manufacturing Canada's 'North' assembly plant in Cambridge, Ontario.\n\nOn May 20, 2010, it was announced that Tesla Motors had purchased part of the NUMMI plant and renamed it Tesla Factory, producing the Tesla Model S. By 2016, the plant had 6,000 employees, with plans for more.\n\nThe plant spans the equivalent of about 88 football fields, and is configured into a main building that does the final assembly of vehicles and five other facilities:\n\nIn the initial 20 months of hiring, NUMMI hired 2,200 hourly workers—85% from the old GM-Fremont plant, among them the old union hierarchy. The union also played a role in selecting managers, except for 16 directly assigned by GM and about 30 Toyota managers and production coordinators from Japan, including the CEO, Tatsuo Toyoda, part of the company's founding family. By 2006, the plant had 5,500 employees.\n\nUntil the facility's closure in April 2010, 4,700 workers were employed. NUMMI employees were represented by The International, United Automobile, Aerospace and Agricultural Implement Workers of America (UAW) Local 2244.\n\nThe first model NUMMI produced was the Chevrolet Nova (1984–1988). This was followed by the Geo Prizm (1989–1997), the Chevrolet Prizm (1998–2002) and the Hilux (1991–1995, predecessor of the Tacoma), as well as the Toyota Voltz, the Japanese right-hand drive version of the Pontiac Vibe. Both of the latter are based on the Toyota Matrix.\n\nProduction of the Pontiac Vibe hatchback was discontinued in August 2009 as GM phased out the Pontiac brand in the midst of a bailout. Along with Saturn and Hummer, Pontiac joined Oldsmobile (which had been discontinued after 2004) among the four GM brands that are no longer in production.\n\nBeginning in September 1986, the NUMMI plant produced the Corolla. In January 1995, it began producing the Toyota Tacoma pickup truck. \n\nThe Fremont Assembly factory which NUMMI took over was built by General Motors and operated by them from 1962 to 1982, when the Fremont employees were \"considered the worst workforce in the automobile industry in the United States\", according to the United Auto Workers. Employees drank alcohol on the job, were frequently absent (enough so that the production line couldn't be started), and even committed petty acts of sabotage such as putting \"Coke bottles inside the door panels, so they'd rattle and annoy the customer.\" GM was departmentalized as per Henry Ford's Division of labour, but without the necessary communication; management did not consider workers' view of production, and quantity was preferred over quality.\n\nThe idea of reopening the plant emerged from the need that GM had to build high-quality and profitable small cars and the need Toyota had to start building cars in the United States, a requirement due to the possibility of import restrictions by the U.S. Congress. The goal was to produce high quality at low cost, but supported by including workers in the process. The choice of the Fremont plant and its workers was unusual because of the previous problems. In spite of the history and reputation, when NUMMI reopened the factory for production in 1984, 85% of the troublesome GM workforce was rehired, with some sent to Japan to learn the Toyota Production System. Workers who made the transition identified the emphasis on quality and teamwork by Toyota management as what motivated a change in work ethic. Among the cultural changes were the same uniform, parking and cafeterias for all levels of employment in order to promote the team concept, and a no-layoff policy. Built-in process quality and employee suggestion programs for continual improvement were other changes. Consensus decision-making reached management level, in contrast with the old departmentalization.\n\nBy December 1984, the first car, a yellow Chevrolet Nova rolled off the assembly line. And almost right away, the NUMMI factory was producing cars at the same speed and with as few defects per 100 vehicles as those produced in Japan, with higher worker satisfaction.\n\nIn 1988 NUMMI operated at 58.6% capacity, and had not reached break-even by 1991.\n\nDespite the early success at Fremont, by 1998 (15 years later) GM had still not been able to implement lean manufacturing in the rest of the United States, though GM managers trained at NUMMI were successful in introducing the approach to its unionized factories in Brazil.\n\nNUMMI was Toyota's only unionized plant in the U.S.\n\nSome of the challenges for the factory were higher costs.\nDaily tours of the plant, offered free to the public, were ended on February 27, 2009.\n\nOn June 29, 2009, General Motors announced that they would discontinue the joint venture with Toyota.\nThe announcement was made following GM CEO Fritz Henderson announcing in April that General Motors would discontinue the Pontiac Vibe production at NUMMI. The two automakers were in discussions but could not find a suitable product to be produced at the factory. “After extensive analysis, GM and Toyota could not reach an agreement on a future product plan that made sense for all parties,” GM North America President Troy Clarke said in a statement.\n\"Toyota’s hope was to continue the venture and we haven’t yet decided any plans at the factory,” said Hideaki Homma, Toyota's Tokyo-based spokesman. “While we respect this decision by GM, the economic and business environment surrounding Toyota is also extremely severe, and so this decision by GM makes the situation even more difficult for Toyota.” Before GM decided to sever its stake in the NUMMI joint venture, Toyota was considering offering a version of its Prius hybrid to GM that would be built at the factory and sold as a GM model but Toyota has indicated that it was seriously considering exiting the venture also.\n\nOn August 27, 2009, Toyota announced that it would discontinue its production contract with NUMMI, shifting Tacoma production to its San Antonio, Texas pickup plant and Corolla assembly to Blue Springs, Mississippi. A total of 5,400 employees were affected, including 4,550 UAW hourly workers.\n\nIn November 2009, Toyota's head of U.S. sales took calls from autoworkers, saying that though it has been a difficult decision to shut down the plant, \"the economics of having a plant in California so far away from the supplier lines\" in the Midwest \"just doesn't make business sense\" for Toyota to continue running the NUMMI plant. Meanwhile, autoworkers prepared for the shut down by refreshing skills and planning for career transitions. Federal, state, and local officials also participated in the transition discussions. In March 2010, 90% of the 3,700 UAW workers at the plant approved a $281 million severance package averaging $54,000, paid by Toyota to the plant's 4,700 employees.\n\nProduction of the Toyota models that used to be made at NUMMI was moved to Toyota's plants in southern states.\n\nIn January 2010, a possible use of the land was proposed: a new stadium for home games of the Oakland Athletics of Major League Baseball. It is close to the proposed site of Cisco Field, which was never formally approved.\n\nState officials crafted sales tax exemption on new factory equipment to preserve Nummi. A regional committee was formed in February 2010 to investigate the closure of the plant, and the facility was appraised while operating. \n\nOn March 10, 2010, Aurica Motors announced a proposal to save the NUMMI automotive plant and the jobs associated with it. The company said that it intended to raise investment capital and garner federal economic stimulus funds to help retrain the workers and retool the facility for production of electrical vehicles.\n\nThe NUMMI plant ceased operations on April 1, 2010, ending the Toyota-GM joint venture. California's last automobile manufacturing plant saw its last car, a Corolla, roll off the assembly line. NUMMI sold off equipment at an auction, with robots and tooling going to Toyota plants in Kentucky, Texas and Mississippi. NUMMI sold some equipment to Tesla for $15 million.\n\nOn May 20, 2010, Tesla Motors and Toyota announced a partnership to work on electric vehicle development, which included Tesla's partial purchase (210 of 370 acres) of the former NUMMI site for $42 million, mainly consisting of the factory building, but not equipment. Tesla CEO Elon Musk said the Tesla S sedan will be built at the plant. When Tesla took over the location in 2010, they renamed it the Tesla Factory. Tesla would be collaborating with Toyota on the \"development of electric vehicles, parts, and production system and engineering support\". According to Tesla Motors' plans, the plant would first be used to produce the Tesla Model S sedan with \"future vehicles\" following in the coming years. The plant was projected to produce 20,000 vehicles a year and employ 1,000 workers to start.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12982460", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12982460", "title": "Nationality law of Taiwan", "text": "Nationality law of Taiwan\n\nThe Nationality Act defines and regulates nationality of the Republic of China, commonly known as Taiwan. It was first promulgated by the Nationalist Government on 5 February 1929 and revised by the Taipei-based Legislative Yuan in 2000, 2001, and 2006.\n\nThe Act, like the Constitution of the Republic of China, makes no provision regarding citizenship. Citizenship rights are currently restricted to persons with household registration in the Taiwan Area. The Act sets to define persons in terms of nationality (國籍), terming them as \"nationals\" (國民) rather than \"citizens\" (公民), a term that does not appear in the act.\n\nAccording to the 1895 Treaty of Shimonoseki, Taiwan was ceded to Japan, but people living in Taiwan were given \"the opportunity to choose their nationality\" by either leaving or staying within two years of the treaty being signed. They were subjected to Japanese laws.\n\nOn the other side, the nationality law of ROC was first promulgated by the Nationalist Government on 5 February 1929, when Taiwan was still under Japanese rule. However, in 1946, the ROC government announced that the people living in Taiwan had \"regained\" their status as ROC nationals, which gave rise to diplomatic protests from the UK and the US. Up to the present day, this Nationality Law has been revised by the Taipei-based Legislative Yuan in 2000, 2001, and 2006. The inclusion of native Taiwanese people within its scope of application has also been controversial. Some opponents of the ROC's sovereignty over Taiwan argue that the law has \"forced\" citizenship onto Taiwanese aborigines.\n\nThe nationality law generally follows \"jus sanguinis\". The law spells out four criteria, any one of which may be met to qualify for nationality:\nIn the original version of the law nationality could only be passed from father to child. However, the law was revised in 2000 to allow citizenship to be passed on from either parent, taking effect on those born after 9 February 1980 (those under age 20 at the time of the promulgation).\n\nIn practice, exercise of most citizenship benefits, such as suffrage, and labour rights, requires possession of the Republic of China National Identification Card, which is only issued to persons with household registration in the Taiwan Area aged 14 and older. Note that children of ROC nationals who were born abroad are eligible for ROC passports and therefore considered to be nationals, but often they do not hold a household registration so are referred to as \"unregistered nationals\" in statute. These ROC nationals have no automatic right to stay in Taiwan, nor do they have working rights, voting rights, etc. In a similar fashion, some British passport holders do not have the right of abode in the UK (see British nationality law). Unregistered nationals can obtain a Republic of China National Identification Card only by settling in Taiwan for one year without leaving, two consecutive years staying in Taiwan for a minimum of 270 days a year or five consecutive years staying 183 days or more in each year.\n\nArticle 9 of the ROC Nationality Act requires prospective naturalized citizens to first renounce their previous nationality, possibly causing those persons to become stateless if they then fail to obtain ROC nationality. The United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees has noted that this has caused thousands of Vietnamese women to become stateless. In December 2016, the Legislative Yuan waived Article 9 for the first time, for people who had made \"special contributions\" to Taiwan. Promulgation of an amendment to Article 9 occurred in March 2017. The amendment states that foreigners who have lived in the Republic of China for five years may apply for citizenship without losing their previous citizenship, given that applicants also have expertise in the areas of technology, economics, arts and culture, education, sports or a \"special\" category. Article 9 does not apply to overseas Chinese holding foreign nationality who seek to exercise ROC nationality. Such persons do not need to naturalize because they are already legally ROC nationals.\n\nThe Act does not restrict ROC nationals from becoming dual nationals of other countries. Dual nationals are however restricted by Article 20 from holding most public offices in Taiwan. Indeed, many immigrants to Taiwan give up their original nationality, obtain ROC nationality, then apply again for their original nationality—which some countries will restore, some after a waiting period. (Notably, the United States government has no such procedure.) This entire process is fully legal under ROC law, though statistics are not available regarding how many people do this. The Act also permits former nationals of the ROC to apply for restoration of their nationality.\n\nHowever, by Article 9-1, \"[t]he people of the Taiwan Area may not have household registrations in the Mainland Area or hold passports issued by the Mainland Area.\" Republic of China nationals are not recognised to be dual nationals of the People's Republic of China (PRC), which the Republic of China Government does not recognise. If they obtain the passport of the PRC or household registration within mainland China, they will be deprived of their ROC Passport.\n\nThe Republic of China's official borders encompass all territories governed by the People's Republic of China and persons of these territories are considered under ROC law to be nationals of the Republic of China. Thus, if the residents of mainland China want to travel to the Taiwan Area, they must do so using the Entry Permit of Mainland Residents to the Taiwan Area and residents of Hong Kong and Macau must enter using the Entry Permit of HK and Macau Residents to the Taiwan Area. PRC passports, HKSAR passports, Macau SAR passports, and BN(O) passports are not stamped by Taiwan immigration officers. Mongolia is also within the ROC's official borders, but since 2002, the government has extended recognition to the Mongolian government and permitted citizens of Mongolia to use their passports to enter Taiwan in lieu of an entry permit.\n\nIf the residents of mainland China seek to settle permanently in Taiwan and gain citizenship rights, they do not naturalize like citizens of foreign countries. Instead, they merely can establish household registration, which in practice takes longer and is more complicated than naturalization.\n\nRepublic of China passports are also issued to overseas Chinese, irrespective of whether they have lived or even set foot in Taiwan. The rationale behind this extension of the principle of \"jus sanguinis\" to almost \"all\" Chinese regardless of their countries of residence, as well as the recognition of dual citizenships, is to acknowledge the support given by overseas Chinese historically to the Kuomintang regime, particularly during the Republican Revolution of 1911. The type of passport issued to these individuals is called \"Overseas Chinese Passport\" of the Republic of China (僑民護照) and it is different than the type of passport issued to nationals that possess a national identification card with the former having far more restrictions than the latter. For instance, overseas Chinese passport holders are required to apply for a visa to enter the Schengen area, whereas no visa is required for the regular passport holders. See the passport article for more information about this practice.\n\nBut for the residents of mainland China, Hong Kong, and Macau, only after gaining permanent resident status abroad, or otherwise establishing a period of residency defined by the regulations, they become eligible for a Republic of China passport but do not gain benefits of citizenship.\n\nAccording to the standards and regulations of most international organizations, \"Republic of China\" is not a recognized nationality. In the international standard ISO 3166-1, the proper nationality designation for persons domiciled in Taiwan is not ROC, but rather TWN. This three-letter code TWN is also the official designation adopted by the International Civil Aviation Organization for use on a machine-readable travel document when dealing with entry/exit procedures at immigration authorities outside Taiwan.\n\n"}
{"id": "13466784", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13466784", "title": "New Criminal Law Review", "text": "New Criminal Law Review\n\nThe New Criminal Law Review () is a quarterly peer-reviewed law journal published by University of California Press. It was established in 1997 as the \"Buffalo Criminal Law Review\", but changed names in 2007 after the University of California Press took responsibility for publishing the journal. The \"New Criminal Law Review\" focuses on examinations of crime, philosophy of criminal law, and punishment in domestic, transnational, and international contexts.\n\nThe \"New Criminal Law Review\" is ranked as the number one criminal law review, and is ranked as the tenth journal in the world.\n\nThis is a list of notable papers that have appeared in the journal.\n\n"}
{"id": "33271616", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33271616", "title": "Official Assignee", "text": "Official Assignee\n\nAn Official Assignee is an officer in the law court who distributes a bankrupt's assets to the creditors. He also assists the bankrupt to relieve of his obligations to the creditors.\n\nUnder the bankruptcy system operating in the United Kingdom before 1869, such officers were appointed by the Lord Chancellor, accountants or from the commercial world.\n"}
{"id": "2420085", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2420085", "title": "Pamela Samuelson", "text": "Pamela Samuelson\n\nPamela Samuelson is the Richard M. Sherman '74 Distinguished Professor of Law and Information Management at the University of California, Berkeley with a joint appointment in the UC Berkeley School of Information and Boalt Hall, the School of Law. She was appointed Visiting Professor of Law at Harvard Law School for the Fall 2007 term. She is also Co-Director of the Berkeley Center for Law and Technology and a co-founder of Authors Alliance.\n\nHer principal area of study is intellectual property law. She has written and spoken about the challenges that new information technologies are posing for public policy and traditional legal regimes and is an advisor for the Samuelson Law, Technology and Public Policy Clinic, which she established in 2000 with her husband, Bob Glushko. She is a Fellow of the Association for Computing Machinery (ACM), a Contributing Editor of Communications of the ACM, a past Fellow of the John D. & Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation, an Honorary Professor of the University of Amsterdam and received the Anita Borg Institute Women of Vision Award for Social Impact in 2005. She is a member of the Board of Directors of the Electronic Frontier Foundation and of the Open Source Applications Foundation, as well as a member of the Advisory Board for the Electronic Privacy Information Center. In 2013, she was inducted into the American Academy of Arts and Sciences.\n\nA 1971 graduate of the University of Hawaii and a 1976 graduate of Yale Law School, Samuelson practiced law as a litigation associate with the New York law firm Willkie Farr & Gallagher before becoming an academic. From 1981 through June 1996 she was a member of the faculty at the University of Pittsburgh School of Law, from which she visited at Columbia, Cornell, and Emory Law Schools. She has been a member of the Berkeley faculty since 1996.\n\nOn November 2, 2015, Samuelson gave the Brace Lecture (named for publisher Donald Brace), an annual address by a distinguished figure in the field of domestic copyright law, at Fordham University School of Law.\n\nIn 2016, Samuelson cosigned an \"amicus curiae\" brief for \"Intellectual Property Professors\" in support of Star Athletica in \"Star Athletica v. Varsity Brands\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30592", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30592", "title": "Partial Nuclear Test Ban Treaty", "text": "Partial Nuclear Test Ban Treaty\n\nThe Partial Test Ban Treaty (PTBT) is the abbreviated name of the 1963 Treaty Banning Nuclear Weapon Tests in the Atmosphere, in Outer Space and Under Water, which prohibited all test detonations of nuclear weapons except for those conducted underground. It is also abbreviated as the Limited Test Ban Treaty (LTBT) and Nuclear Test Ban Treaty (NTBT), though the latter may also refer to the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty (CTBT), which succeeded the PTBT for ratifying parties.\n\nNegotiations initially focused on a comprehensive ban, but this was abandoned due to technical questions surrounding the detection of underground tests and Soviet concerns over the intrusiveness of proposed verification methods. The impetus for the test ban was provided by rising public anxiety over the magnitude of nuclear tests, particularly tests of new thermonuclear weapons (hydrogen bombs), and the resulting nuclear fallout. A test ban was also seen as a means of slowing nuclear proliferation and the nuclear arms race. Though the PTBT did not halt proliferation or the arms race, its enactment did coincide with a substantial decline in the concentration of radioactive particles in the atmosphere.\n\nThe PTBT was signed by the governments of the Soviet Union, United Kingdom, and United States in Moscow on 5 August 1963 before being opened for signature by other countries. The treaty formally went into effect on 10 October 1963. Since then, 123 other states have become party to the treaty. Ten states have signed but not ratified the treaty.\n\nMuch of the stimulus for the treaty was increasing public unease about radioactive fallout as a result of above-ground or underwater nuclear testing, particularly given the increasing power of nuclear devices, as well as concern about the general environmental damage caused by testing. In 1952–53, the US and Soviet Union detonated their first thermonuclear weapons (hydrogen bombs), far more powerful than the atomic bombs tested and deployed since 1945. In 1954, the US Castle Bravo test at Bikini Atoll (part of Operation Castle) had a yield of 15 megatons of TNT, more than doubling the expected yield. The Castle Bravo test resulted in the worst radiological event in US history as radioactive particles spread over more than , affected inhabited areas (including Rongelap Atoll and Utirik Atoll), and sickened Japanese fishermen aboard the \"Lucky Dragon\" upon whom \"ashes of death\" had rained. In the same year, a Soviet test sent radioactive particles over Japan. Around the same time, victims of the atomic bombing of Hiroshima visited the US for medical care, which attracted significant public attention. In 1961, the Soviet Union tested the Tsar Bomba, which had a yield of 50 megatons and remains the most powerful man-made explosion in history, though due to a highly efficient detonation fallout was relatively limited. Between 1951 and 1958, the US conducted 166 atmospheric tests, the Soviet Union conducted 82, and Britain conducted 21; only 22 underground tests were conducted in this period (all by the US).\n\nIn 1945, Britain and Canada made an early call for an international discussion on controlling atomic power. At the time, the US had yet to formulate a cohesive policy or strategy on nuclear weapons. Taking advantage of this was Vannevar Bush, who had initiated and administered the Manhattan Project, but nevertheless had a long-term policy goal of banning on nuclear weapons production. As a first step in this direction, Bush proposed an international agency dedicated to nuclear control. Bush unsuccessfully argued in 1952 that the US pursue a test ban agreement with the Soviet Union before testing its first thermonuclear weapon, but his interest in international controls was echoed in the 1946 Acheson–Lilienthal Report, which had been commissioned by President Harry S. Truman to help construct US nuclear weapons policy. J. Robert Oppenheimer, who had led Los Alamos National Laboratory during the Manhattan Project, exerted significant influence over the report, particularly in its recommendation of an international body that would control production of and research on the world's supply of uranium and thorium. A version of the Acheson-Lilienthal plan was presented to the United Nations Atomic Energy Commission as the Baruch Plan in June 1946. The Baruch Plan proposed that an International Atomic Development Authority would control all research on and material and equipment involved in the production of atomic energy. Though Dwight D. Eisenhower, then the Chief of Staff of the United States Army, was not a significant figure in the Truman administration on nuclear questions, he did support Truman's nuclear control policy, including the Baruch Plan's provision for an international control agency, provided that the control system was accompanied by \"a system of free and complete inspection.\"\n\nIn 1954, just weeks after the Castle Bravo test, Indian prime minister Jawaharlal Nehru made the first call for a \"standstill agreement\" on nuclear testing, who saw a testing moratorium as a stepping stone to more comprehensive arms control agreements. In the same year, the British Labour Party, then led by Clement Attlee, called on the UN to ban testing of thermonuclear weapons. 1955 marks the beginning of test-ban negotiations, as Soviet leader Nikita Khrushchev first proposed talks on the subject in February 1955. On 10 May 1955, the Soviet Union proposed a test ban before the UN Disarmament Commission's \"Committee of Five\" (Britain, Canada, France, the Soviet Union, and the US). This proposal, which closely reflected a prior Anglo-French proposal, was initially part of a comprehensive disarmament proposal meant to reduce conventional arms levels and eliminate nuclear weapons. Despite the closeness of the Soviet proposal to earlier Western proposals, the US reversed its position on the provisions and rejected the Soviet offer \"in the absence of more general control agreements,\" including limits on the production of fissionable material and protections against a surprise nuclear strike. The May 1955 proposal is now seen as evidence of Khrushchev's \"new approach\" to foreign policy, as Khrushchev sought to mend relations with the West. The proposal would serve as the basis of the Soviet negotiating position through 1957.\n\nEisenhower had supported nuclear testing after World War II. In 1947, he rejected arguments by Stafford L. Warren, the Manhattan Project's chief physician, concerning the detrimental health effects of atmospheric testing, agreeing instead with James Bryant Conant, a chemist and participant in the Manhattan Project, who was skeptical of Warren's then-theoretical claims. Warren's arguments were lent credence in the scientific community and public by the Castle Bravo test of 1954. Eisenhower, as president, first explicitly expressed interest in a comprehensive test ban that year, arguing before the National Security Council, \"We could put [the Russians] on the spot if we accepted a moratorium ... Everybody seems to think that we're skunks, saber-rattlers and warmongers. We ought not miss any chance to make clear our peaceful objectives.\" Then-Secretary of State John Foster Dulles had responded skeptically to the limited arms-control suggestion of Nehru, whose proposal for a test ban was discarded by the National Security Council for being \"not practical.\" Harold Stassen, Eisenhower's special assistant for disarmament, argued that the US should prioritize a test ban as a first step towards comprehensive arms control, conditional on the Soviet Union accepting on-site inspections, over full disarmament. Stassen's suggestion was dismissed by others in the administration over fears that the Soviet Union would be able to conduct secret tests. On the advice of Dulles, Atomic Energy Commission (AEC) chairman Lewis Strauss, and Secretary of Defense Charles Erwin Wilson, Eisenhower rejected the idea of considering a test ban outside general disarmament efforts. During the 1952 and 1956 presidential elections, Eisenhower fended off challenger Adlai Stevenson, who ran in large part on support for a test ban.\nThe British governments of 1954–58 (under Conservatives Winston Churchill, Anthony Eden, and Harold Macmillan) also quietly resisted a test ban, despite the British public favoring a deal, until the US Congress approved expanded nuclear collaboration in 1958 and until after Britain had tested its first hydrogen bombs. In their view, testing was necessary if the UK nuclear program were to continue to develop. This opposition was tempered by concern that resistance to a test ban might lead the US and Soviet Union to pursue an agreement without Britain having any say in the matter.\n\nMembers of the Soviet military–industrial complex also opposed a test ban, though some scientists, including Igor Kurchatov, were supportive of antinuclear efforts. France, which was in the midst of developing its own nuclear weapon, also firmly opposed a test ban in the late 1950s.\n\nThe proliferation of thermonuclear weapons coincided with a rise in public concern about nuclear fallout debris contaminating food sources, particularly the threat of high levels of strontium-90 in milk (see the Baby Tooth Survey). This survey was a \"campaign [that] effectively employed a variety of media advocacy strategies\" to alarm the public and \"galvanized\" support against atmospheric nuclear testing. Lewis Strauss and Edward Teller, dubbed the \"father of the hydrogen bomb,\" both sought to tamp down on these fears, arguing that fallout [at the dose levels of US exposure] were fairly harmless and that a test ban would enable the Soviet Union to surpass the US in nuclear capabilities. Teller also suggested that testing was necessary to develop nuclear weapons that produced less fallout. While Teller would largely win the contemporary televised debates of 1958 with Linus Pauling, on technical grounds, the emotive \"media advocacy strategies\", of which the Tooth survey is a prominent example, were to cause support in the US public for a test ban to continue to grow from 20% in 1954 to 63% by 1957. Moreover, widespread antinuclear protests were organized and led by theologian and Nobel Peace Prize laureate Albert Schweitzer, whose appeals were endorsed by Pope Pius XII, and Linus Pauling, the latter of whom organized an anti-test petition signed by more than 9,000 scientists across 43 countries (including the infirm and elderly Albert Einstein). Although notably, many health scientists that were asked to sign were critical of Pauling's \"thoroughly unscientific\" fallout assumptions, despite most wishing for a test-ban for other reasons, they could not bring themselves to sign a document that promoted such exaggerations of the dangers, as it would result in eventual public distrust of scientists in the long term.\n\nThe AEC would eventually concede, as well, that even low levels of radiation were harmful. It was a combination of rising public support for a test ban and the shock of the 1957 Soviet \"Sputnik\" launch that encouraged Eisenhower to take steps towards a test ban in 1958.\n\nThere was also increased environmental concern in the Soviet Union. In the mid-1950s, Soviet scientists began taking regular radiation readings near Leningrad, Moscow, and Odessa and collected data on the prevalence of strontium-90, which indicated that strontium-90 levels in western Russia approximately matched those in the eastern US. Rising Soviet concern was punctuated in September 1957 by the Kyshtym disaster, which forced the evacuation of 10,000 people after an explosion at a nuclear plant. Around the same time, 219 Soviet scientists signed Pauling's antinuclear petition. Soviet political elites did not share the concerns of others in the Soviet Union. However; Kurchatov unsuccessfully called on Khrushchev to halt testing in 1958.\n\nOn 14 June 1957, following Eisenhower's suggestion that existing detection measures were inadequate to ensure compliance, the Soviet Union put forth a plan for a two-to-three-year testing moratorium. The moratorium would be overseen by an international commission reliant on national monitoring stations, but, importantly, would involve no on-the-ground inspections. Eisenhower initially saw the deal as favorable, but eventually came to see otherwise. In particular, Strauss and Teller, as well as Ernest Lawrence and Mark Muir Mills, protested the offer. At a meeting with Eisenhower in the White House, the group argued that testing was necessary for the US to eventually develop bombs that produced no fallout (\"clean bombs\"). The group repeated the oft-cited fact, which was supported by Freeman Dyson, that the Soviet Union could conduct secret nuclear tests. In 1958, at the request of Igor Kurchatov, Soviet nuclear physicist and weapons designer Andrei Sakharov published a pair of widely circulated academic papers challenging the claim of Teller and others that a clean, fallout-free nuclear bomb could be developed, due to the formation of carbon-14 when nuclear devices are detonated in the air. A one-megaton clean bomb, Sakharov estimated, would cause 6,600 deaths over 8,000 years, figures derived largely from estimates on the quantity of carbon-14 generated from atmospheric nitrogen and the contemporary risk models at the time, along with the assumption that the world population is \"thirty billion persons\" in a few thousand years. In 1961, Sakharov was part of the design team for a 50 megaton \"clean bomb\", which has become known as the Tsar Bomba, detonated over the island of Novaya Zemlya.\nIn the spring of 1957, the US National Security Council had explored including a one-year test moratorium and a \"cut-off\" of fissionable-material production in a \"partial\" disarmament plan. The British government, then led by Macmillan, had yet to fully endorse a test ban. Accordingly, it pushed the US to demand that the production cut-off be closely timed with the testing moratorium, betting that the Soviet Union would reject this. London also encouraged the US to delay its disarmament plan, in part by moving the start of the moratorium back to November 1958. At the same time, Macmillan linked British support for a test ban to a revision of the Atomic Energy Act of 1946 (McMahon Act), which prohibited sharing of nuclear information with foreign governments. Eisenhower, eager to mend ties with Britain following the Suez Crisis of 1956, was receptive to Macmillan's conditions, but the AEC and the congressional Joint Committee on Atomic Energy were firmly opposed. It was not until after \"Sputnik\" in late 1957 that Eisenhower quickly moved to expand nuclear collaboration with the UK via presidential directives and the establishment of bilateral committees on nuclear matters. In early 1958, Eisenhower publicly stated that amendments to the McMahon Act were a necessary condition of a test ban, framing the policy shift in the context of US commitment to its NATO allies.\n\nIn August 1957, the US assented to a two-year testing moratorium proposed by the Soviet Union, but required that it be linked to restrictions on the production of fissionable material with military uses, a condition that the Soviet Union rejected. While Eisenhower insisted on linking a test ban to a broader disarmament effort (e.g., the production cut-off), Moscow insisted on independent consideration of a test ban.\n\nOn 19 September 1957, the US conducted the first contained underground test at the Nevada Test Site, codenamed \"Rainier\". The \"Rainier\" shot complicated the push for a comprehensive test ban, as underground tests could not be as easily identified as atmospheric tests.\n\nDespite Eisenhower's interest in a deal, his administration was hamstrung by discord among US scientists, technicians, and politicians. At one point, Eisenhower complained that \"statecraft was becoming a prisoner of scientists.\" Until 1957, Strauss's AEC (including its Los Alamos and Livermore laboratories) was the dominant voice in the administration on nuclear affairs, with Teller's concerns over detection mechanisms also influencing Eisenhower. Unlike some others within the US scientific community, Strauss fervently advocated against a test ban, arguing that the US must maintain a clear nuclear advantage via regular testing and that the negative environmental impacts of such tests were overstated. Furthermore, Strauss repeatedly emphasized the risk of the Soviet Union violating a ban, a fear Eisenhower shared.\n\nOn 7 November 1957, after \"Sputnik\" and under pressure to bring on a dedicated science advisor, Eisenhower created the President's Science Advisory Committee (PSAC), which had the effect of eroding the AEC's monopoly over scientific advice. In stark contrast to the AEC, PSAC promoted a test ban and argued against Strauss's claims concerning its strategic implications and technical feasibility. In late 1957, the Soviet Union made a second offer of a three-year moratorium without inspections, but lacking any consensus within his administration, Eisenhower rejected it. In early 1958, the discord within American circles, particularly among scientists, was made clear in hearings before the Senate Subcommittee on Nuclear Disarmament, chaired by Senator Hubert Humphrey. The hearings featured conflicting testimony from the likes of Teller and Linus Pauling, as well as from Harold Stassen, who argued that a test ban could safely be separated from broader disarmament, and AEC members, who argued that a cutoff in nuclear production should precede a test ban.\n\nIn the summer of 1957, Khrushchev was at acute risk of losing power, as the Anti-Party Group composed of former Stalin allies Lazar Kaganovich, Georgy Malenkov, and Vyacheslav Molotov launched an attempt to replace Khrushchev as General Secretary of the Communist Party (effectively the leader of the Soviet Union) with Nikolai Bulganin, then the Premier of the Soviet Union. The attempted ouster, which was foiled in June, was followed by a series of actions by Khrushchev to consolidate power. In October 1957, still feeling vulnerable from Anti-Party Group's ploy, Khrushchev forced out defense minister Georgy Zhukov, cited as \"the nation's most powerful military man.\" On 27 March 1958, Khrushchev forced Bulganin to resign and succeeded him as Premier. Between 1957 and 1960, Khrushchev had his firmest grip on power, with little real opposition.\n\nKhrushchev was personally troubled by the power of nuclear weapons and would later recount that he believed the weapons could never be used. In the mid-1950s, Khrushchev took a keen interest in defense policy and sought to inaugurate an era of détente with the West. Initial efforts to reach accords, such as on disarmament at the 1955 Geneva Summit, proved fruitless, and Khrushchev saw test-ban negotiations as an opportunity to present the Soviet Union as \"both powerful and responsible.\" At the 20th Communist Party Congress in 1956, Khrushchev declared that nuclear war should no longer be seen as \"fatalistically inevitable.\" Simultaneously, however, Khrushchev expanded and advanced the Soviet nuclear arsenal at a cost to conventional Soviet forces (e.g., in early 1960, Khrushchev announced demobilization of 1.2 million troops).\n\nOn 31 March 1958, the Supreme Soviet of the Soviet Union approved a decision to halt nuclear testing, conditional on other nuclear powers doing the same. Khrushchev then called on Eisenhower and Macmillan to join the moratorium. Despite the action being met with widespread praise and an argument from Dulles that the US should reciprocate, Eisenhower dismissed the plan as a \"gimmick\"; the Soviet Union had just completed a testing series and the US was about to begin Operation Hardtack I, a series of atmospheric, surface-level, and underwater nuclear tests. Eisenhower instead insisted that any moratorium be linked to reduced production of nuclear weapons. In April 1958, the US began Operation Hardtack I as planned. The Soviet declaration concerned the British government, which feared that the moratorium might lead to a test ban before its own testing program was completed. Following the Soviet declaration, Eisenhower called for an international meeting of experts to determine proper control and verification measures—an idea first proposed by British Foreign Secretary Selwyn Lloyd.\n\nThe advocacy of PSAC, including that of its chairmen James Rhyne Killian and George Kistiakowsky, was a key factor in Eisenhower's eventual decision to initiate test-ban negotiations in 1958. In the spring of 1958, chairman Killian and the PSAC staff (namely Hans Bethe and Isidor Isaac Rabi) undertook a review of US test-ban policy, determining that a successful system for detecting underground tests could be created. At the recommendation of Dulles (who had recently come to support a test ban), the review prompted Eisenhower to propose technical negotiations with the Soviet Union, effectively detaching test-ban negotiations from negotiations over a halt to nuclear weapons production (the one-time US demand). In explaining the policy shift, Eisenhower privately said that continued resistance to a test ban would leave the US in a state of \"moral isolation.\"\n\nOn 8 April 1958, still resisting Khrushchev's call for a moratorium, Eisenhower invited the Soviet Union to join these technical negotiations in the form of a conference on the technical aspects of a test-ban, specifically the technical details of ensuring compliance with a ban. The proposal was, to a degree, a concession to the Soviet Union, as a test ban would be explored independent of the previously demanded cutoff in fissionable-material production. Khrushchev initially declined the invitation, but eventually agreed \"in spite of the serious doubts\" he had after Eisenhower suggested a technical agreement on verification would be a precursor to a test ban.\n\nOn 1 July 1958, responding to Eisenhower's call, the nuclear powers convened the Conference of Experts in Geneva, aimed at studying means of detecting nuclear tests. The conference included scientists from the US, Britain, the Soviet Union, Canada, Czechoslovakia, France, Poland, and Romania. The US delegation was led by James Fisk, a member of PSAC, the Soviets by Evgenii Fedorov, and the British delegation by William Penney, who had led the British delegation to the Manhattan Project. Whereas the US approached the conference solely from a technical perspective, Penney was specifically instructed by Macmillan to attempt to achieve a political agreement. This difference in approach was reflected in the broader composition of the US and UK teams. US experts were primarily drawn from academia and industry. Fisk was a vice president at Bell Telephone Laboratories and was joined by Robert Bacher and Ernest Lawrence, both physicists who had worked on the Manhattan Project. Conversely, British delegates largely held government positions. The Soviet delegation was composed primarily of academics, though virtually all of them had some link to the Soviet government. The Soviets shared the British goal of achieving an agreement at the conference.\n\nAt particular issue was the ability of sensors to differentiate an underground test from an earthquake. There were four techniques examined: measurement of acoustic waves, seismic signals, radio waves, and inspection of radioactive debris. The Soviet delegation expressed confidence in each method, while Western experts argued that a more comprehensive compliance system would be necessary.\n\nThe Conference of Experts was characterized as \"highly professional\" and productive. By the end of August 1958, the experts devised an extensive control program, known as the \"Geneva System,\" involving 160–170 land-based monitoring posts, plus 10 additional sea-based monitors and occasional flights over land following a suspicious event (with the inspection plane being provided and controlled by the state under inspection). The experts determined that such a scheme would be able to detect 90% of underground detonations, accurate to 5 kilotons, and atmospheric tests with a minimum yield of 1 kiloton. The US had initially advocated for 650 posts, versus a Soviet proposal of 100–110. The final recommendation was a compromise forged by the British delegation. In a widely publicized and well-received communiqué dated 21 August 1958, the conference declared that it \"reached the conclusion that it is technically feasible to set up ... a workable and effective control system for the detection of violations of a possible agreement on the worldwide cessation of nuclear weapons tests.\"\nThe technical findings, released on 30 August 1958 in a report drafted by the Soviet delegation, were endorsed by the US and UK, which proposed that they serve as the basis for test-ban and international-control negotiations. However, the experts' report failed to address precisely who would do the monitoring and when on-site inspections—a US demand and Soviet concern—would be permitted. The experts also deemed detection of outer-space tests (tests more than above the earth's surface) to be impractical. Additionally, the size of the Geneva System may have rendered it too expensive to be put into effect. The 30 August report, which contained details on these limitations, received significantly less public attention than the 21 August communiqué.\n\nNevertheless, pleased by the findings, the Eisenhower administration proposed negotiations on a permanent test ban and announced it would self-impose a year-long testing moratorium if Britain and the Soviet Union did the same. This decision amounted to a victory for John Foster Dulles, Allen Dulles (then the Director of Central Intelligence), and PSAC, who had argued within the Eisenhower administration for separating a test ban from larger disarmament efforts, and a defeat for the Department of Defense and AEC, which had argued to the contrary.\n\nIn May 1958, Britain had informed that US that it would be willing to join a testing moratorium on 31 October 1958, by which point it would have finished its hydrogen-bomb testing, conditional on the US providing Britain with nuclear information following amendment of the McMahon Act. The US Congress approved amendments permitting greater collaboration in late June. Following Soviet assent on 30 August 1958 to the one-year moratorium, the three countries conducted a series of tests in September and October. At least 54 tests were conducted by the US and 14 by the Soviet Union in this period. On 31 October 1958 the three countries initiated test-ban negotiations (the Conference on the Discontinuance of Nuclear Tests) and agreed to a temporary moratorium (the Soviet Union joined the moratorium shortly after this date). The moratorium would last for close to three years.\n\nThe Conference on the Discontinuance of Nuclear Tests convened in Geneva at Moscow's request (the Western participants had proposed New York City). The US delegation was led by James Jeremiah Wadsworth, an envoy to the UN, the British by David Ormsby-Gore, the Minister of State for Foreign Affairs, and the Soviets by Semyon K. Tsarapkin, a disarmament expert with experience dating back to the 1946 Baruch Plan. The Geneva Conference began with a Soviet draft treaty grounded in the Geneva System. The three nuclear weapons states (the \"original parties\") would abide by a test ban, verified by the Geneva System, and work to prevent testing by potential nuclear states (such as France). This was rejected by Anglo-American negotiators due to fears that the verification provisions were too vague and the Geneva System too weak.\n\nShortly after the Geneva Conference began in the fall of 1958, Eisenhower faced renewed domestic opposition to a comprehensive test ban as Senator Albert Gore Sr. argued in a widely circulated letter that a partial ban would be preferable due to Soviet opposition to strong verification measures.\n\nThe Gore letter did spur some progress in negotiations, as the Soviet Union allowed in late November 1958 for explicit control measures to be included in the text of the drafted treaty. By March 1959, the negotiators had agreed upon seven treaty articles, but they primarily concerned uncontroversial issues and a number of disputes over verification persisted. First, the Soviet verification proposal was deemed by the West to be too reliant on self-inspection, with control posts primarily staffed by citizens of the country housing the posts and a minimal role for officials from the international supervisory body. The West insisted that half of a control post staff be drawn from another nuclear state and half from neutral parties. Second, the Soviet Union required that the international supervisory body, the Control Commission, require unanimity before acting; the West rejected the idea of giving Moscow a veto over the Commission's proceedings. Finally, the Soviet Union preferred temporary inspection teams drawn from citizens of the country under inspection, while the West insisted on permanent teams composed of inspectors from the Control Commission.\n\nAdditionally, despite the initial positive response to the Geneva experts' report, data gathered from Hardtack operations of 1958 (namely the underground \"Rainier\" shot) would further complication verification provisions as US scientists, including Hans Bethe (who backed a ban), became convinced that the Geneva findings were too optimistic regarding detection of underground tests, though Macmillan warned that using the data to block progress on a test ban might be perceived in the public as a political ploy. In early 1959, Wadsworth told Tsarapkin of new US skepticism towards the Geneva System. While the Geneva experts believed the system could detect underground tests down to five kilotons, the US now believed that it could only detect tests down to 20 kilotons (in comparison, the Little Boy bomb dropped on Hiroshima had an official yield of 13 kilotons). As a result, the Geneva detection regime and the number of control posts would have to be significantly expanded, including new posts within the Soviet Union. The Soviets dismissed the US argument as a ruse, suggesting that the Hardtack data had been falsified.\n\nIn early 1959, a roadblock to an agreement was removed as Macmillan and Eisenhower, over opposition from the Department of Defense, agreed to consider a test ban separately from broader disarmament endeavors.\n\nOn 13 April 1959, facing Soviet opposition to on-site detection systems for underground tests, Eisenhower proposed moving from a single, comprehensive test ban to a graduated agreement where atmospheric tests—those up to 50 km (31 mi) high, a limit Eisenhower would revise upward in May 1959—would be banned first, with negotiations on underground and outer-space tests continuing. This proposal was turned down on 23 April 1959 by Khrushchev, calling it a \"dishonest deal.\" On 26 August 1959, the US announced it would extend its year-long testing moratorium to the end of 1959, and would not conduct tests after that point without prior warning. The Soviet Union reaffirmed that it would not conduct tests if the US and UK continued to observe a moratorium.\n\nTo break the deadlock over verification, Macmillan proposed a compromise in February 1959 whereby each of the original parties would be subject to a set number of on-site inspections each year. In May 1959, Khrushchev and Eisenhower agreed to explore Macmillan's quota proposal, though Eisenhower made further test-ban negotiations conditional on the Soviet Union dropping its Control Commission veto demand and participating in technical discussions on identification of high-altitude nuclear explosions. Khrushchev agreed to the latter and was noncommittal on the former. A working group in Geneva would eventually devise a costly system of 5–6 satellites orbiting at least above the earth, though it could not say with certainty that such a system would be able to determine the origin of a high-altitude test. US negotiators also questioned whether high-altitude tests could evade detection via radiation shielding. Concerning Macmillan's compromise, the Soviet Union privately suggested it would accept a quota of three inspections per year. The US argued that the quota should be set according to scientific necessity (i.e., be set according to the frequency of seismic events).\n\nIn June 1959, a report of a panel headed by Lloyd Berkner, a physicist, was introduced into discussions by Wadsworth. The report specifically concerned whether the Geneva System could be improved without increasing the number of control posts. Berkner's proposed measures were seen as highly costly and the technical findings themselves were accompanied by a caveat about the panel's high degree of uncertainty given limited data. Around the same time, analysis conducted by the Livermore National Laboratory and RAND Corporation at Teller's instruction found that the seismic effect of an underground test could be artificially dampened (referred to as \"decoupling\") to the point that a 300-kiloton detonation would appear in seismic readings as a one-kiloton detonation. These findings were largely affirmed by pro-ban scientists, including Bethe. The third blow to the verification negotiations was provided by a panel chaired by Robert Bacher, which found that even on-site inspections would have serious difficulty determining whether an underground test had been conducted.\n\nIn September 1959, Khrushchev visited the US While the test ban was not a focus on conversations, a positive meeting with Eisenhower at Camp David eventually led Tsarapkin to propose a technical working group in November 1959 that would consider the issues of on-site inspections and seismic decoupling in the \"spirit of Camp David.\" Within the working group, Soviet delegates allowed for the timing of on-site inspections to be grounded in seismic data, but insisted on conditions that were seen as excessively strict. The Soviets also recognized the theory behind decoupling, but dismissed its practical applications. The working group closed in December with no progress and significant hostility. Eisenhower issued a statement blaming \"the recent unwillingness of the politically guided Soviet experts to give serious scientific consideration to the effectiveness of seismic techniques for the detection of underground nuclear explosions.\" Eisenhower simultaneously declared that the US would not be held to its testing moratorium when it expired on 31 December 1959, though pledged to not test if Geneva talks progressed. The Soviet Union followed by reiterating its decision to not test as long as Western states did not test.\n\nIn early 1960, Eisenhower indicated his support for a comprehensive test ban conditional on proper monitoring of underground tests. On 11 February 1960, Wadsworth announced a new US proposal by which only tests deemed verifiable by the Geneva System would be banned, including all atmospheric, underwater, and outer-space tests within detection range. Underground tests measuring more than 4.75 on the Richter scale would also be barred, subject to revision as research on detection continued. Adopting Macmillan's quota compromise, the US proposed each nuclear state be subject to roughly 20 on-site inspections per year (the precise figure based on the frequency of seismic events).\n\nTsarapkin responded positively to the US proposal, though was wary of the prospect of allowing underground tests registering below magnitude 4.75. In its own proposal offered 19 March 1960 the Soviet Union accepted most US provisions, with certain amendments. First, the Soviet Union asked that underground tests under magnitude 4.75 be banned for a period of four-to-five years, subject to extension. Second, it sought to prohibit all outer-space tests, whether within detection range or not. Finally, the Soviet Union insisted that the inspection quota be determined on a political basis, not a scientific one. The Soviet offer faced a mixed reception. In the US, Senator Hubert Humphrey and the Federation of American Scientists (which was typically seen as supportive of a test ban) saw it as a clear step towards an agreement. Conversely, AEC chairman John A. McCone and Senator Clinton Presba Anderson, chair of the Joint Committee on Atomic Energy, argued that the Soviet system would be unable to prevent secret tests. That year, the AEC published a report arguing that the continuing testing moratorium risked \"free world supremacy in nuclear weapons,\" and that renewed testing was critical for further weapons development. The joint committee also held hearings in April which cast doubt on the technical feasibility and cost of the proposed verification measures. Additionally, Teller continued to warn of the dangerous consequences of a test ban and the Department of Defense (including Neil H. McElroy and Donald A. Quarles, until recently its top two officials) pushed to continue testing and expand missile stockpiles.\n\nShortly after the Soviet proposal, Macmillan met with Eisenhower at Camp David to devise a response. The Anglo-American counterproposal agreed to ban small underground tests (those under magnitude 4.75) on a temporary basis (a duration of roughly 1 year, versus the Soviet proposal of 4–5 years), but this could only happen after verifiable tests had been banned and a seismic research group (the Seismic Research Program Advisory Group) convened. The Soviet Union responded positively to the counterproposal and the research group convened on 11 May 1960. The Soviet Union also offered to keep an underground ban out of the treaty under negotiation. In May 1960, there were high hopes that an agreement would be reached at an upcoming summit of Eisenhower, Khrushchev, Macmillan, and Charles de Gaulle of France in Paris.\n\nA test ban seemed particularly close in 1960, with Britain and France in accord with the US (though France conducted its first nuclear test in February) and the Soviet Union having largely accepted the Macmillan-Eisenhower proposal. But US-Soviet relations soured after an American U-2 spy plane was shot down in Soviet airspace in May 1960. The Paris summit was abruptly cancelled and the Soviet Union withdrew from the seismic research group, which subsequently dissolved. Meetings of the Geneva Conference continued until December, but little progress was made as Western-Soviet relations continued to grow more antagonistic through the summer, punctuated by the Congo Crisis in July and angry exchanges at the UN in September. Macmillan would later claim to President John F. Kennedy that the failure to achieve a test ban in 1960 \"was all the fault of the American 'big hole' obsession and the consequent insistence on a wantonly large number of on-site inspections.\"\n\nEisenhower would leave office with an agreement out of reach, as Eisenhower's technical advisors, upon whom he relied heavily, became mired in the complex technical questions of a test ban, driven in part by a strong interest among American experts to lower the error rate of seismic test detection technology. Some, including Kistiakowsky, would eventually raise concerns about the ability of inspections and monitors to successfully detect tests. The primary product of negotiations under Eisenhower was the testing moratorium without any enforcement mechanism. Ultimately, the goal of a comprehensive test ban would be abandoned in favor of a partial ban due to questions over seismic detection of underground tests.\n\nPolitical scientist Robert Gilpin later argued that Eisenhower faced three camps in the push for a test ban. The first was the \"control\" camp, led by figures like Linus Pauling and astronomer Harlow Shapley, which believed that both testing and possession of nuclear weapons was dangerous. Second, there was the \"finite containment\" camp, populated by scientists like Hans Bethe, which was concerned by perceived Soviet aggression but still believed that a test ban would be workable with adequate verification measures. Third, the \"infinite containment\" camp, of which Strauss, Teller, and members of the defense establishment were members, believed that any test ban would grant the Soviet Union the ability to conduct secret tests and move ahead in the arms race.\n\nThe degree of Eisenhower's interest in a test ban is a matter of some historical dispute. Stephen E. Ambrose writes that by early 1960, a test ban had become \"the major goal of his President, indeed of his entire career,\" and would be \"his final and most lasting gift to his country.\" Conversely, John Lewis Gaddis characterizes negotiations of the 1950s as \"an embarrassing series of American reversals,\" suggesting a lack of real US commitment to arms control efforts. The historian Robert Divine also attributed the failure to achieve a deal to Eisenhower's \"lack of leadership,\" evidenced by his inability to overcome paralyzing differences among US diplomats, military leaders, national security experts, and scientists on the subject. Paul Nitze would similarly suggest that Eisenhower never formulated a cohesive test ban policy, noting his ability to \"believe in two mutually contradictory and inconsistent propositions at the same time.\"\n\nUpon assuming the presidency in January 1961, John F. Kennedy was committed to pursuing a comprehensive test ban and ordered a review of the American negotiating position in an effort to accelerate languishing talks, believing Eisenhower's approach to have been \"insufficient.\" In making his case for a test ban, Kennedy drew a direct link between continued testing and nuclear proliferation, calling it the \"'Nth-country' problem.\" While a candidate, Kennedy had argued, \"For once China, or France, or Sweden, or half a dozen other nations successfully test an atomic bomb, the security of both Russians and Americans is dangerously weakened.\" He had also claimed that renewed testing would be \"damaging to the American image\" and might threaten the \"existence of human life.\" On the campaign trail, Kennedy's test-ban proposal consisted of a continued US testing moratorium, expanded efforts to reach a comprehensive agreement, limit any future tests to those minimizing fallout, and expand research on fallout. Notably, early in his term, Kennedy also presided over a significant increase in defense spending, which was reciprocated by the Soviet Union shortly thereafter, thus placing the test-ban negotiations in the context of an accelerating arms race.\n\nOn 21 March 1961, test-ban negotiations resumed in Geneva and Arthur Dean, a lead US envoy, offered a new proposal in an attempt to bridge the gap between the two sides. The early Kennedy proposal largely grew out of later Eisenhower efforts, with a ban on all tests but low-yield underground ones (below magnitude 4.75), which would be subject to a three-year moratorium. The US and UK proposed 20 on-site inspections per annum, while the Soviet Union proposed three. The verification procedures included in the Anglo-American plan were unacceptable to Tsarapkin, who responded with separate proposals rejected by the Western powers. Specifically, the Soviet Union proposed a \"troika\" mechanism: a monitoring board composed of representatives of the West, the Soviet Union, and nonaligned states that would require unanimity before acting (effectively giving the Soviet Union veto authority). In May 1961, Kennedy attempted via secret contact between Attorney General Robert F. Kennedy and a Soviet intelligence officer to settle on 15 inspections per year. This was rejected by Khrushchev.\n\nAhead of the June 1961 Vienna summit between Kennedy and Khrushchev, Robert F. Kennedy spoke with the Soviet ambassador to the US, who suggested that progress on a test ban was possible in a direct meeting between the leaders. President Kennedy subsequently announced to the press that he had \"strong hopes\" for progress on a test ban. In Vienna, Khrushchev suggested that three inspections per year would have to be the limit, as anything more frequent would constitute espionage. Khrushchev privately believed allowing three inspections to be a significant concession to the West, as other Soviet officials preferred an even less intrusive system, and was angered by US resistance. Khrushchev later told his son, \"hold out a finger to them—they chop off your whole hand.\"\n\nAdditionally, the Soviet Union had once been ready to support an control commission under the aegis of the UN, Khrushchev explained, but it could not longer do so given perceived bias in recent UN action in the Congo. Instead, Khrushchev reiterated the troika proposal. Furthermore, Khrushchev insisted that the test ban be considered in the context of \"general and complete disarmament,\" arguing that a test ban on its own was unimportant; Kennedy said the US could only agree with a guarantee that a disarmament agreement would be reached quickly (the Vienna demands thus amounted to a reversal of both sides' earlier positions). Kennedy also disagreed that a test ban was itself insignificant; the world could expect many more countries in the coming years to cross the nuclear threshold without a test ban. Ultimately, the two leaders left Vienna without clear progress on the subject. The Soviet Union would drop the general-disarmament demand in November 1961.\n\nFollowing the setback in Vienna and Berlin Crisis of 1961, as well as the Soviet decision to resume testing in August (attributed by Moscow to a changed international situation and French nuclear tests), Kennedy faced mounting pressure from the Department of Defense and nuclear laboratories to set aside the dream of a test ban. In June 1961, following stalled talks in Geneva, Kennedy had argued that Soviet negotiating behavior raised \"a serious question about how long we can safely continue on a voluntary basis a refusal to undertake tests in this country without any assurance that the Russians are not testing.\" Whether or not the Soviet Union had actually conducted secret tests was a matter of debate within the Kennedy administration. A team led by physicist Wolfgang K. H. Panofsky reported that while the Soviet Union could have secretly tested weapons, there was no evidence indicating that it actually had. Panofsky's findings were dismissed by the Joint Chiefs of Staff as \"assertive, ambiguous, semiliterate and generally unimpressive.\"\n\nTwo weeks after the lifting of the Soviet moratorium in August 1961, and after another failed Anglo-American attempt to have the Soviet Union agree to an atmospheric-test ban, the US restarted testing on 15 September 1961. Kennedy specifically limited such testing to underground and laboratory tests, but under mounting pressure as Soviet tests continued — during the time period of the Soviet \"Tsar Bomba\" 50 Mt+ test detonation on October 30 over Novaya Zemlya — Kennedy announced and dedicated funds to a renewed atmospheric testing program in November 1961.\n\nA report on the 1961 Soviet tests, published by a group of American scientists led by Hans Bethe, determined \"that [Soviet] laboratories had probably been working full speed during the whole moratorium on the assumption that tests would at some time be resume,\" with preparations likely having begun prior to the resumption of talks in Geneva in March 1961. In January 1962, Bethe, who had once supported a test ban, publicly argued that a ban was \"no longer a desirable goal\" and the US should test weapons developed by its laboratories. In contrast to Soviet laboratories, US laboratories had been relatively inactive on nuclear weapons issues during the moratorium.\nIn December 1961, Macmillan met with Kennedy in Bermuda, appealing for a final and permanent halt to tests. Kennedy, conversely, used the meeting to request permission to test on Christmas Island, with US testing grounds in the Pacific having largely been exhausted. Macmillan agreed to seek to give US permission \"if the situation did not change.\" Christmas Island was ultimately opened to US use by February 1962.\n\nOn this matter of resumed atmospheric tests, Kennedy lacked the full backing of his administration and allies. In particularly, Macmillan, Adlai Stevenson (then the UN ambassador), the State Department, the United States Information Agency, and Jerome Wiesner, the PSAC chairman, opposed resuming atmospheric tests. On the side advocating resumption were the AEC, Joint Committee on Atomic Energy, Joint Chiefs of Staff (which had called for renewed atmospheric tests in October 1961), and Department of Defense, though then-Secretary of Defense Robert McNamara privately acknowledged that such tests were \"not really necessary.\" Teller continued to advocate for atmospheric tests, as well, arguing in early 1962 that nuclear fallout was nothing be concerned about. Teller also argued that testing was necessary to continued advancement of US nuclear capabilities, particularly in terms of the mobility of its weapons and, accordingly, its second-strike capability.\n\nDespite Teller's reassurances, Kennedy himself \"hated the idea of reopening the race\" and was uneasy with continued production of fallout, a negative consequence of resumed testing that its opponents within the administration stressed. Opponents of the tests also argued that renewed atmospheric tests would come at a significant moral cost to the US, given broad public opposition to the plan, and claimed that further tests were largely unnecessary, with the US already having an adequate nuclear arsenal. Arthur Dean believed that public opposition to atmospheric testing was so great that the US would have to halt such tests within four years even without an agreement. John Kenneth Galbraith, then the ambassador to India, had advised Kennedy in June 1961 that resumed testing \"would cause us the gravest difficulties in Asia, Africa and elsewhere.\" Similarly, Hubert Humphrey described the moratorium as \"a ray of hope to millions of worried people.\" Its termination, Humphrey warned, \"might very well turn the political tides in the world in behalf of the Soviets.\"\n\nUltimately, Kennedy sided with those arguing for resumed testing. In particular, an argument by William C. Foster, the head of the Arms Control and Disarmament Agency, swayed Kennedy. Foster argued that if the US failed to respond to the Soviet test series, Moscow could order a second test series, which could give the Soviet Union a significant advantage. Furthermore, a second test series, without US reciprocation, could damage the push for a test ban and make Senate ratification of any agreement less likely. On 2 March 1962, building on the November 1961 announcement, Kennedy promised to resume atmospheric testing by the end of April 1962 if Moscow continued to resist the Anglo-American test-ban proposal. To an extent, the announcement was a compromise, as Kennedy restricted atmospheric tests to those tests which were \"absolutely necessary,\" not feasible underground, and minimized fallout. The condition that testing would resume only if the Soviet Union continued to oppose the Anglo-American proposal also served as a concession to dissenting voices within his administration and to Macmillan.\n\nKennedy portrayed resumed testing as a necessary for the image of US resolve. If the US failed to respond to the Soviet test series, Kennedy explained, Moscow would \"chalk it up, not to goodwill, but to a failure of will—not to our confidence in Western superiority, but to our fear of world opinion.\" Keeping the US in a position of strength, Kennedy argued, would be necessary for a test ban to ever come about.\n\nThe US suspension of atmospheric tests was lifted on 25 April 1962.\n\nBy March 1962, the trilateral talks in Geneva had shifted to 18-party talks at the UN Disarmament Conference. On 27 August 1962, within that conference, the US and UK offered two draft treaties to the Soviet Union. The primary proposal included a comprehensive ban verified by control posts under national command, but international supervision, and required on-site inspections. This was rejected by the Soviet Union due to the inspection requirement. The alternative proposal included a partial test ban—underground tests would be excluded—to be verified by national detection mechanisms, without supervision by a supranational body.\n\nIn October 1962, the US and Soviet Union experienced the Cuban Missile Crisis, which brought the two superpowers to the edge of nuclear war and prompted both Kennedy and Khrushchev to seek accelerated rapprochement. After years of dormant or lethargic negotiations, American and British negotiators subsequently forged a strong working relationship and with Soviet negotiators found common ground on test restrictions later in 1962. After years of pursuing a comprehensive ban, Khrushchev was convinced to accept a partial ban, partly due to the efforts of Soviet nuclear scientists, including Kurchatov, Sakharov, and Yulii Borisovich Khariton, who argued that atmospheric testing had severe consequences for human health. Khrushchev had been concerned by a partial ban due to the greater US experience in underground tests; by 1962, the US had conducted 89 such tests and the Soviet Union just two (the Soviet focus had been on cheaper, larger-yield atmospheric tests). For this reason, many in the Soviet weapons industry argued that a partial ban would give the US the advantage in nuclear capabilities. Khrushchev would later recount that he saw test-ban negotiations as a prime venue for ameliorating tensions after the crisis in Cuba.\n\nShocked by how close the world had come to thermonuclear war, Khrushchev proposed easing of tensions with the US. In a letter to President Kennedy dated 30 October 1962, Kurshchev outlined a range of bold initiatives to forestall the possibility of nuclear war, including proposing a non-aggression treaty between the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) and the Warsaw Pact or even the disbanding these military blocs, a treaty to cease all nuclear weapons testing and even the elimination of all nuclear weapons, resolution of the hot-button issue of Germany by both East and West formally accepting the existence of West Germany and East Germany, and US recognition of the government of mainland China. The letter invited counter-proposals and further exploration of these and other issues through peaceful negotiations. Khrushschev invited Norman Cousins, the editor of a major US periodical and an anti-nuclear weapons activist, to serve as liaison with President Kennedy, and Cousins met with Khrushchev for four hours in December 1962. Kennedy's response to Khrushchev's proposals was lukewarm but Kennedy expressed to Cousins that he felt constrained in exploring these issues due to pressure from hardliners in the US national security apparatus. However Kennedy pursued negotiations for a partial nuclear test ban.\n\nOn 13 November 1962, Tsarapkin indicated that the Soviet Union would accept a proposal drafted by US and Soviet experts involving automated test detection stations (\"black boxes\") and a limited number of on-site inspections. The two sides disagreed over the number of black boxes, however, as the US sought 12–20 such stations and the Soviet Union rejected any more than three. On 28 December 1962, Kennedy lowered the US demand to 8–10 stations. On 19 February 1963, the number was lowered further to seven, as Khrushchev continued to insist on no more than three. Kennedy was willing to reduce the number to six, though this was not clearly communicated to the Soviet Union. On 20 April 1963, Khrushchev withdrew support for three inspections entirely.\n\nProgress was further complicated in early 1963, as a group in the US Congress called for the Soviet proposal to be discarded in favor of the Geneva System. On 27 May 1963, 34 US Senators, led by Humphrey and Thomas J. Dodd, introduced a resolution calling for Kennedy to propose another partial ban to the Soviet Union involving national monitoring and no on-site inspections. Absent Soviet agreement, the resolution called for Kennedy to continue to \"pursue it with vigor, seeking the widest possible international support\" while suspending all atmospheric and underwater tests. The effect of the resolution was to bolster the general push for a test ban, though Kennedy initially was concerned that it would damage attempts to secure a comprehensive ban, and had administration figures (including the Joint Chiefs of Staff) reiterate a call for a comprehensive ban. That same spring of 1963, however, Kennedy had sent antinuclear activist Norman Cousins to Moscow to meet with Khrushchev, where he explained that the political situation in the US made it very difficult for Kennedy agree to a comprehensive ban with Khrushchev's required terms. Cousins also assured Khrushchev that though Kennedy had rejected Khrushchev's offer of three yearly inspections, he still was set on achieving a test ban. In March 1963, Kennedy had also held a press conference in which he re-committed to negotiations with the Soviet Union as a means of preventing rapid nuclear proliferation, which he characterized as \"the greatest possible danger and hazard.\"\nOne of Kennedy's advisors, Walt Whitman Rostow, advised the President to make a test ban conditional on the Soviet Union withdrawing troops from Cuba and abiding by a 1962 agreement on Laos, but Kennedy opted instead for test-ban negotiations without preconditions. On 10 June 1963, in an effort to reinvigorate and recontextualize a test ban, President Kennedy dedicated his commencement address at American University to \"the most important topic on earth: world peace\" and proceeded to make his case for the treaty. Kennedy first called on Americans to dispel the idea that peace is unattainable. \"Let us focus instead on a more practical, more attainable peace,\" Kennedy said, \"based not on a sudden revolution in human nature but on a gradual evolution in human institutions—on a series of concrete actions and effective agreements which are in the interest of all concerned.\" Second, Kennedy appealed for a new attitude towards the Soviet Union, calling Americans to not \"see only a distorted and desperate view of the other side, not to see conflict as inevitable, accommodations as impossible and communication as nothing more than an exchange of threats.\" Finally, Kennedy argued for a reduction in Cold War tensions, with a test ban serving as a first step towards complete disarmament:\n\n... where a fresh start is badly needed—is in a treaty to outlaw nuclear tests. The conclusion of such a treaty—so near and yet so far—would check the spiraling arms race in one of its most dangerous areas. It would place the nuclear powers in a position to deal more effectively with one of the greatest hazards which man faces in 1963, the further spread of nuclear arms. It would increase our security—it would decrease the prospects of war. Surely this goal is sufficiently important to require our steady pursuit, yielding neither to the temptation to give up the whole effort nor the temptation to give up our insistence on vital and responsible safeguards.\n\nKennedy proceeded to announce an agreement with Khrushchev and Macmillan to promptly resume comprehensive test-ban negotiations in Moscow and a US decision to unilaterally halt atmospheric tests. The speech was well received by Khrushchev, who later called it \"the greatest speech by any American President since Roosevelt,\" though was met with some skepticism within the US. The speech was endorsed by Humphrey and other Democrats, but labeled a \"dreadful mistake\" by Republican Senator Barry Goldwater and \"another case of concession\" by Everett Dirksen, the leader of the Senate Republicans. Dirksen and Charles A. Halleck, the second-ranking House Republican, warned that the renewed negotiations might end in \"virtual surrender.\"\n\nDue to prior experience in arms control and his personal relationship with Khrushchev, former Assistant Secretary of War John J. McCloy was first considered the likely choice for chief US negotiator in Moscow, but his name was withdrawn after he turned out to be unavailable over the summer. W. Averell Harriman, a former ambassador to the Soviet Union well respected in Moscow, was chosen instead. The US delegation would also include Adrian S. Fisher, Carl Kaysen, John McNaughton, and William R. Tyler. In Britain, Macmillan initially wanted David Ormsby-Gore, who had just completed a term as foreign minister, to lead his delegation, but there were concerns that Ormsby-Gore would appear to be a US \"stooge\" (Kennedy described him as \"the brightest man he ever knew\"). Instead, Macmillan chose Quintin Hogg. Arthur M. Schlesinger Jr., a special advisor to Kennedy, believed that Hogg was \"ill prepared on the technicalities of the problem and was consumed by a desire to get a treaty at almost any cost.\" Andrei Gromyko, the Soviet Minister of Foreign Affairs, served as Moscow's emissary.\n\nHeading into the negotiations, there was still no resolution within the Kennedy Administration of the question of whether to pursue a comprehensive or partial ban. In an effort to achieve the former, Britain proposed reducing the number of mandated inspections to allay Soviet concerns, but Harriman believed such a reduction would have to be paired with other concessions that Khrushchev would be able to show off within the Soviet Union and to China. Withdrawing PGM-19 Jupiter missiles from Italy and Turkey would have been an option, had they not already been removed in the wake of the Cuban Missile Crisis. In meetings prior to the negotiations, Kennedy informed Harriman that he would be willing to make concessions on the Berlin question.\n\nOn 2 July 1963, Khrushchev proposed a partial ban on tests in the atmosphere, outer space, and underwater, which would avoid the contentious issue of detecting underground tests. Notably, Khrushchev did not link this proposal to a moratorium on underground tests (as had been proposed earlier), but said it should be followed by a non-aggression pact between NATO and the Warsaw Pact. \"A test ban agreement combined with the signing of a non-aggression pact between the two groups of state will create a fresh international climate more favorable for a solution of the major problems of our time, including disarmament,\" Khrushchev said.\n\nAs the nuclear powers pursued a test ban agreement, they also sought to contend with a rising communist China, which at the time was pursuing its own nuclear program. In 1955, Mao Zedong expressed to the Soviet Union his belief that China could withstand a first nuclear strike and more than 100 million casualties. In the 1950s, the Soviet Union assisted the Chinese nuclear program, but stopped short of providing China with an actual nuclear bomb, which was followed by increasingly tense relations in the late 1950s and early 1960s. Khrushchev began the test-ban talks of 1958 with minimal prior discussion with China, and the two countries' agreement on military-technology cooperation was terminated in June 1959. Prior to the Moscow negotiations of the summer of 1963, Kennedy granted Harriman significant latitude in reaching a \"Soviet-American understanding\" vis-à-vis China. Secret Sino-Soviet talks in July 1963 revealed further discord between the two communist powers, as the Soviet Union released a statement that it did not \"share the views of the Chinese leadership about creating 'a thousand times higher civilization' on the corpses of hundreds of millions of people.\" The Soviet Union also issued an ideological critique of China's nuclear policy, declaring that China's apparent openness to nuclear war was \"in crying contradiction to the idea of Marxism-Leninism,\" as a nuclear war would \"not distinguish between imperialists and working people.\"\n\nThe negotiations were inaugurated on 15 July 1963 at the Kremlin with Khrushchev in attendance. Khrushchev reiterated that the Anglo-American inspection plan would amount to espionage, effectively dismissing the possibility of a comprehensive ban. Following the script of his 3 July 1963 speech, Khrushchev did not demand a simultaneous moratorium on underground testing and instead proposed a non-aggression pact. Under instruction from Washington, Harriman replied that the US would explore the possibility of a non-aggression pact in good faith, but indicated that while a test ban could be quickly completed, a non-aggression pact would require lengthy discussions. Additionally, such a pact would complicate the issue of Western access to West Berlin. Harriman also took the opportunity to propose a non-proliferation agreement with would bar the transfer of nuclear weapons between countries. Khrushchev said that such an agreement should be considered in the future, but in the interim, a test ban would have the same effect on limiting proliferation.\n\nFollowing initial discussions, Gromyko and Harriman began examining drafts of a test-ban agreement. First, language in the drafted preamble appeared to Harriman to prohibit the use of nuclear weapons in self-defense, which Harriman insisted be clarified. Harriman additionally demanded that an explicit clause concerning withdrawal from the agreement be added to the treaty; Khrushchev believed that each state had a sovereign right to withdraw, which should simply be assumed. Harriman informed Gromyko that without a clause governing withdrawal, which he believed the US Senate would demand, the US could not assent. Ultimately, the two sides settled upon compromise language:\n\nEach Party shall in exercising its national sovereignty have the right to withdraw from the Treaty if it decides that extraordinary events, related to the subject matter of this Treaty, have jeopardized the supreme interests of its country.\n\nGromyko and Harriman debated how states not universally recognized (e.g., East Germany and China) could join the agreement. The US proposed asserting that accession to the treaty would not indicate international recognition. This was rejected by the Soviet Union. Eventually, with Kennedy's approval, US envoys Fisher and McNaughton devised a system whereby multiple government would serve as depositaries for the treaty, allowing individual states to sign only the agreement held by the government of their choice in association with other like-minded states. This solution, which overcame one of the more challenging roadblocks in the negotiations, also served to allay mounting concerns from Macmillan, which were relayed to Washington, that an agreement would once again be derailed. Finally, in an original Soviet draft, the signature of France would have been required for the treaty to come into effect. At Harriman's insistence, this requirement was removed.\nThe agreement was initialed on 25 July 1963, just 10 days after negotiations commenced. The following day, Kennedy delivered a 26-minute televised address on the agreement, declaring that since the invention of nuclear weapons, \"all mankind has been struggling to escape from the darkening prospect of mass destruction on earth ... Yesterday a shaft of light cut into the darkness.\" Kennedy expressed hope that the test ban would be the first step towards broader rapprochement, limit nuclear fallout, restrict nuclear proliferation, and slow the arms race in such a way that fortifies US security. Kennedy concluded his address in reference to a Chinese proverb that he had used with Khrushchev in Vienna two years prior. \"'A journey of a thousand miles must begin with a single step,'\" Kennedy said. \"And if that journey is a thousand miles, or even more, let history record that we, in this land, at this time, took the first step.\"\n\nIn a speech in Moscow following the agreement, Khrushchev declared that the treaty would not end the arms race and by itself could not \"avert the danger of war,\" and reiterated his proposal of a NATO-Warsaw Pact non-aggression accord. For Khrushchev, the test ban negotiations had long been a means of improving the Soviet Union's global image and reducing strain in relations with the West. There are also some indications that military experts within the Soviet Union saw a test ban as a way to restrict US development of tactical nuclear weapons, which could have increased US willingness to deploy small nuclear weapons on battlefields while circumventing the Soviet nuclear deterrent. Concern that a comprehensive ban would retard modernization of the Soviet arsenal may have pushed Khrushchev towards a partial ban. Counteracting the move towards a partial ban was Khrushchev's interest in reducing spending on testing, as underground testing was more expensive than the atmospheric tests the Soviet Union had been conducting; Khrushchev preferred a comprehensive ban as it would have eliminated the cost of testing entirely. Furthermore, there was internal concern about nuclear proliferation, particularly regarding the prospect of France and China crossing the threshold and the possibility of a multilateral NATO nuclear force, which was seen as a step towards West Germany acquiring nuclear weapons (the first Soviet test ban proposal in 1955 was made in the same month than West Germany joined NATO).\n\nIt was not until after the agreement was reached that the negotiators broached the question of France and China joining the treaty. Harriman proposed to Khrushchev that the US lobby France while the Soviet Union pursued a Chinese signature. \"That's your problem,\" Khrushchev said in reply. Earlier, the Soviet ambassador to the US, Mikhail A. Menshikov, reportedly asked whether the US could \"deliver the French.\" Both Kennedy and Macmillan personally called on de Gaulle to join, offering assistance to the French nuclear program in return. Nevertheless, on 29 July 1963, France announced it would not join the treaty. It was followed by China two days later.\n\nOn 5 August 1963, British Foreign Secretary Alec Douglas-Home, Soviet foreign minister Gromyko, and US Secretary of State Dean Rusk signed the final agreement.\n\nBetween 8 and 27 August 1963, the United States Senate Committee on Foreign Relations held hearings on the treaty. The Kennedy administration largely presented a united front in favor of the deal. Leaders of the once-opposed Joint Chiefs of Staff (JCS) and AEC acknowledged that the treaty would be of net benefit, though Teller, former members of the JCS and AEC, and the commander of the Strategic Air Command made clear their firm opposition. The opponents' argument centered on four themes. First, banning atmospheric tests would prevent the US from ensuring the hardness of its LGM-30 Minuteman missile silos and, second, from developing a capable missile defense system. Third, it was argued that the Soviet Union led the US in high-yield weapons (recall the Soviet Tsar Bomba test of 1961), which required atmospheric testing banned by the treaty, while the US led the Soviet Union in low-yield weapons, which were tested underground and would be permitted by the treaty. Fourth, the ban would prevent peaceful, civilian uses of nuclear detonations. Teller declared that the treaty would be a \"step away from safety and possibly ... toward war.\"\n\nAdministration testimony sought to counteract these arguments. Defense Secretary Robert McNamara announced his \"unequivocal support\" for the treaty before the Foreign Relations Committee, arguing that US nuclear forces were secure and clearly superior to those of the Soviet Union, and that any major Soviet tests would be detected. Glenn T. Seaborg, the chairman of the AEC, also gave his support to the treaty in testimony, as did Harold Brown, the Department of Defense's lead scientist, and Norris Bradbury, the longtime director of the Los Alamos Laboratory. Maxwell D. Taylor, the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, also testified in favor of the deal. Taylor and other members of the JCS, including Curtis LeMay, had made their support for the treaty conditional on four \"safeguards\": (1) a continued, aggressive underground testing program, (2) continued nuclear research programs, (3) continued readiness to resume atmospheric tests, and (4) improved verification equipment. Kennedy emphasized that the US would retain the ability to use nuclear weapons in war, would not be bound by the treaty if the Soviets violated it, and would continue an aggressive underground testing program. Kennedy also stressed that a ban would be a key step in preventing nuclear war.\n\nThe testimonies of the Joint Chiefs were seen as particularly effective in allaying concerns, as were the reassurances issued by Kennedy, who had acquired a reputation for resoluteness against the Soviet Union in the wake of the Cuban Missile Crisis. Additionally, a number of prominent Republicans came out in support of the deal, including Eisenhower, Eisenhower's vice president Richard Nixon, and Senator Everett Dirksen, who had initially been skeptical of the treaty. Eisenhower's science advisor and former PSAC head, George Kistiakowsky, endorsed the treaty. Former President Harry S. Truman also lent his support. Supporters of the deal mounted a significant pressure campaign, with active lobbying in favor by a range of civilian groups, including the United Automobile Workers/AFL-CIO, the National Committee for a Sane Nuclear Policy, Women Strike for Peace, and Methodist, Unitarian Universalist, and Reform Jewish organizations. Jerome Wiesner, the chairman of PSAC, later said that this public advocacy was a primary motivation for Kennedy's push for a test ban. Civil opposition to the deal was less prominent, though the Veterans of Foreign Wars announced opposition to the deal along with the International Council of Christian Churches, which rejected a \"covenant with a godless power.\" Polling in late August 1963 indicated that more than 60% of Americans supported the deal while less than 20% opposed it.\n\nOn 3 September 1963, the Foreign Relations Committee approved the treaty by a 16–1 vote. On 24 September 1963, the US Senate voted 80–14 to approve ratification of the treaty, exceeding the necessary two-thirds majority by 14 votes. The Soviet Union ratified the treaty the following day with a unanimous vote of the Presidium of the Supreme Soviet. On 10 October 1963, the treaty entered into effect.\n\nThe treaty declares as its \"principal aim the speediest possible achievement of an agreement on general and complete disarmament under strict international control,\" and explicitly states the goal of achieving a comprehensive test ban (i.e., one which bans underground tests). The treaty permanently forbids the parties to the treaty from conducting, permitting, or encouraging any nuclear explosion in the atmosphere, outer space, or underwater, as well as \"any other nuclear explosion\" that threatens to send nuclear debris into another state's territory. The wording \"any other nuclear explosion\" prohibited peaceful nuclear explosions, due to the difficulty in differentiating those from military tests without expanded verification measures.\n\nPer the compromise forged by US delegates Adrian S. Fisher and John McNaughton in Moscow, the third article of the treaty allows states to deposit instruments of ratification or accession with the government of Britain, the Soviet Union, or US, thereby avoiding the issue of the treaty appearing to legitimize governments lacking universal recognition. The fourth article reflects the compromise struck by Gromyko and Harriman in Moscow on departure from the treaty. It recognizes the sovereign right of states to withdraw from treaties, as Khrushchev argued, while explicitly granting parties the right to withdraw if \"extraordinary events ... have jeopardized the supreme interests of its country,\" per the US demand.\n\nBy 15 April 1963–6 months after the PTBT went into effect—more than 100 states had joined the treaty as signatories and 39 had ratified or acceded to it. The most recent party to the PTBT is Montenegro, which succeeded to the treaty in 2006. , 126 states were party to the treaty, with 10 other states having signed but not deposited instruments of ratification. Sixty states have not signed the PTBT, including the nuclear states of China, France, and North Korea. Albania, an ideological ally of China at the time of the PTBT's enactment, also has not signed.\n\nThe PTBT's ratification coincided with the beginning of a steep decline in the presence of radioactive particles in the atmosphere (following a \"bomb spike\" in the early 1960s), but did not halt nuclear proliferation. One year after the PTBT's entry into force, China (a non-signatory) conducted the 596 test and became the world's fifth nuclear power. Since China, four other states are known or believed to have acquired nuclear weapons. However, the PTBT has been credited with \"slowing\" proliferation due to the greater expense associated with underground tests. Kennedy had warned in 1963 that without a test ban there could be 10 nuclear states by 1970 and 15–20 by 1975.\n\nThe decade following ratification of the PTBT (1963–72) featured more US nuclear tests than the decade prior (1953–62). In the following decade, the US conducted 385 nuclear tests and 23 peaceful nuclear explosions (PNEs), versus 268 tests and three PNEs in the preceding decade. In contrast, the number of Soviet detonations fell from 218 in the preceding decade to 157 in the following decade, as the Soviet Union was never able to meet the pace of US underground explosions. China and France, both non-signatories, conducted 53 tests between 1963 and 1973. In all, 436 tests were conducted between the signing of the PTBT and 1 July 1973, compared to 499 tests between 16 July 1945 and the signing of the PTBT. In the 1960s and 1970s, China conducted 22 atmospheric tests and France conducted 50. The last atmospheric test was conducted by China in 1980, after French atmospheric testing stopped in 1974. Public opposition to nuclear testing continued following the treaty's enactment. Greenpeace was founded in 1971 in opposition to a planned underground test on the Alaskan island of Amchitka. In 1982, a Greenpeace ship docked at Leningrad without permission demanding that the Soviet Union stop testing.\n\nThe PTBT was a first of a series of nuclear arms control treaties in the second half of 20th century. The PTBT has been considered the stepping stone to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT) of 1968, which made explicit reference to the progress provided by the PTBT. In addition to the NPT, the PTBT was followed within ten years by the Outer Space Treaty and Treaty of Tlatelolco in 1967, Seabed Arms Control Treaty in 1971, and the Anti-Ballistic Missile Treaty in 1972. In 1974, the Threshold Test Ban Treaty prohibited underground tests with yields above 150 kilotons.\n\nIn October 1977, the original parties to the PTBT renewed discussion of a comprehensive test ban in Geneva. Through the end of the 1970s, the US, UK, and Soviet Union reached agreement on draft provisions prohibiting all testing, temporarily banning PNEs, and establishing a verification system including on-site inspections. However, the sides remained at odds over the precise details of verification and talks would permanently disband with the departure of President Jimmy Carter in 1981.\n\nMomentum towards a comprehensive ban reemerged under Mikhail Gorbachev and President Ronald Reagan, with Gorbachev initiating a testing moratorium in 1985. In December 1986, the US indicated support for the \"long-term objective\" of a comprehensive ban, followed by the commencement of testing negotiations between the US and Soviet Union in November 1987. In December 1987, the US and Soviet Union agreed to a joint program of experiments on detecting underground tests. In August 1988, Indonesia, Mexico, Peru, Sri Lanka, Venezuela, and Yugoslavia petitioned to transform the PTBT into a comprehensive ban by extending the treaty to underground tests. At a conference on the plan in January 1991, the US indicated it would not permit efforts to achieve a comprehensive ban by consensus with amendments to the PTBT.\n\nThroughout the 1990s, progress accelerated towards a comprehensive test ban treaty (CTBT). Following a series of international meetings on the subject, the UN General Assembly approved resolution 50/64, which appealed for states to follow the PTBT and called for conclusion of the CTBT talks. In September 1996, the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty was signed and superseded the PTBT, though the PTBT is still in effect for states not party to the CTBT. The CTBT has yet to enter into force, as 8 required states have not ratified the treaty, including the US and China. France, Russia, and the UK have ratified the CTBT. The technology for detecting underground tests has significantly improved since the 1950s and 1960s, with monitors detecting tests down to 1 kiloton with a high degree of confidence.\n\nEarly compliance with the PTBT was believed to be good, though there have been a number of accidental releases of nuclear debris into the atmosphere by parties to the treaty. Additionally, \"venting\" of underground tests by the US and Soviet Union also continued to release radioactive debris into the atmosphere. Fully contained underground tests were not wholly \"clean\" either. Underground testing reduced the risk caused by radionuclides with short half-lives, such as iodine-131, and is generally safer than other forms of testing. However, underground testing may also cause long-lived radionuclides, including caesium-135, iodine-129, and plutonium, to seep into the ground.\n\nA notable atmospheric release of radioactive gas followed the Soviet Chagan test of 15 January 1965 in present-day Kazakhstan. Roughly 20% of the radioactive debris produced by the 140-kiloton detonation was released into the atmosphere, with some fallout occurring over Japan. The US complained to Moscow, but no subsequent action was taken. On 25 April 1966, the \"Pin Stripe\" underground test in Nevada (part of Operation Flintlock) experienced a venting malfunction and produced a radioactive plume headed towards the Midwestern US; the AEC determined that the test did not threaten human health.\n\nAnother accidental release occurred following the \"Baneberry\" shot at the Nevada Test Site on 18 December 1970 (part of Operation Emery). The 10-kiloton underground detonation produced a fissure in the ground, which subsequently allowed radioactive gas to escape into the atmosphere. Radioactive material released by the fissure reached an altitude of and exposed 86 workers to radiation, though none at excessive levels. The incident has since been described as one of the \"world's worst nuclear disasters.\"\n\nDeclassified US documents indicate that the US may have violated the PTBT's ban on atmospheric testing in 1972 by, at the instruction of Henry Kissinger, monitoring and collecting data on French atmospheric tests over the Pacific Ocean, which may have amounted to cooperation with the French program. Declassified documents also indicate that the US and UK circumvented the prescribed verification system in 1964–65 by establishing a series of additional control posts in Australia, Fiji, Mauritius, Pakistan, and South Africa.\n\nThe 1979 Vela Incident in the southern Atlantic Ocean may have been an atmospheric nuclear test in contravention of the PTBT by Israel and South Africa, both of which were parties to the treaty.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52248621", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52248621", "title": "Patexia", "text": "Patexia\n\nPatexia Inc. is a privately held intellectual property (IP) company based in Santa Monica, California, U.S. The company was founded in 2010 with the mission to enhance transparency and efficiency in the IP field through a leveraging of the knowledge of an IP-based online community of researchers, attorneys, and stakeholders—described by the company as a “multidisciplinary social network”—for the purpose of information crowdsourcing. In addition, the company combines patent and litigation databases to provide analytical tools regarding the IP field, including the details of attorneys, law firms, companies, and examiners, for its community members.\n\nIn March 2015, company founder and CEO Pedram Sameni claimed that client feedback formed the basis of a “track record … of 75 percent of cases” regarding successful relevant-prior-art searches.\n\nAs of November 2016, Patexia is officially partnered with the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS), Yahoo, Inc., and NASA. In June 2015, the company was awarded one of 10 new NASA Open Innovation Service (NOIS) Contracts regarding “human space exploration challenges.”\n\nThe company was founded in 2010 by Sameni, whose aim was to address the inefficiency that he observed in the IP field while working in a management role at the IP and licensing department of U.S. power-management-technology company International Rectifier (now part of Infineon Technologies). Sameni explained to the \"Legal NewsLine\" publication in December 2014 that the considerable IP portfolio he was responsible for at International Rectifier revealed major issues regarding the conventional patent processes including the immense backlog “burden” of the United States Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO), which Pedram states was left with more than 600,000 outstanding patent applications at the end of Fiscal Year 2014.\n\nSameni eventually identified crowdsourcing as a viable alternative to traditional prior art search, as “the most relevant prior art references are [most-often] hidden in non-patent-literature or foreign language documents;” that is, given that the compulsory research of each prior-art application is performed by an individual examiner in the U.S., the employment of a research community means that multi-lingual searches can be conducted by tens of thousands of individuals with access to global publications, thereby resulting in a significant efficiency and quality improvement. In December 2014, Sameni explained:\n\nA global crowd of thousands or millions is not bound by the restrictions that apply to an individual or even a single company. If you pose a question to the crowd, they can respond with knowledge across many industries and search for responses in dozens of languages. The crowd takes a variety of creative approaches not bound by a single set of cultural or educational norms, which leads to emergent behavior and new and innovative solutions … patterns often emerge that may otherwise have been overlooked at the individual level.”\n\nIn March 2011, Patexia released the beta version of its first research tool, the “IP Research” platform, to the public. Described by the blog of international patent-search business Landon IP (now part of CPA Global) as a “free patent search system with simple visual analysis tools,” the Patexia press release explained that the platform “covers [the] U.S. patent database from 1976 to late 2010, which includes over 4.1M patents.” In early 2011, the official Patexia blog was also commenced.\n\nIn May 2012, the first-ever Patexia crowdsourcing contest was launched. Participants were required to submit “a new or existing idea that reduces health care costs,” and two US$1,000 prizes were offered. One of the winners was determined by Patexia judges, while a popular vote was used for the other winner.\n\nAt the start of 2013, Patexia was identified by \"Bloomberg News\", alongside other crowdsourced IP firms like Article One Partners (bigger in size than Patexia itself), for its potential in the patent-litigation area, as a PricewaterhouseCoopers U.S. study indicated that the number of filed patent actions had tripled between 1991 and 2011. Regarding litigation matters, Sameni stated in 2014: “Crowdsourcing is an extremely efficient way to search for evidence of use and locate infringing products across different markets.”\n\nIn March 2015, the “Patexia.Defend” program was launched with respect to the patent-litigation area. Again, crowdsourcing underpins the program that was developed to help reduce the monetary costs for technology-sector clients facing a high number of patent-litigation cases. During the launch, active membership programs were offered in terms of the semiconductor sub-sectors such as wireless connectivity, flash memory, and DRAM.\n\nNASA published its press release regarding the awarding of 10 new NOIS contracts—the total combined value of which is $20 million over five years—in mid-2015, with Patexia listed among the recipients alongside other companies including InnoCentive, Inc. and HeroX PBC. The press release for the NASA Tournament Lab explained that the new contracts would initially be used to seek new algorithms for its Robonaut project for both space and Earth purposes, while NASA’s “evolvable Journey to Mars strategy” is the future research subject. NASA’s director of the Center of Excellence for Collaborative Innovation stated that the space organization wanted to exploit “the global nature of the internet to tap into the diverse intellects and talents available around the world.”\n\nPatexia’s activities regarding patent litigation were further developed with the launch of the “Patexia Coalition Funding Initiative” in September 2015. The Initiative’s aim is the reduction of expensive litigation costs through collective action that heightens efficiency, whereby “companies share the burdens they would otherwise face alone.” By forming a “defense coalition,” Sameni explained that individual companies would only be liable for costs around the $50,000 mark, rather than the millions of dollars that can be incurred otherwise.\n\nPatexia’s primary aim was the provision of crowdsourced patent-search services through an online community of subject-matter experts, whereby studies are posted for the purpose of facilitating research and the relevant submissions in the form of different reference types are sought out. Since its founding, its business model has expanded to comprise four areas, as shown on its website.\n\nThe studies that Patexia engages in comprise the patent due diligence regarding litigation and licensing cases. To initiate the search process, contests, which are either private or public, are promoted by the company as “crowdsourced challenges” on its “Contest” Web page, as well as via an email list and an RSS feed. The details of the challenge, including the scoring criteria and the rules, are provided in the announcement.\n\nContest submissions are scored on a 100-point scale and according to the grading rubric that is included with the contest details. The highest-scoring submission is deemed the “winner,” and 60 percent of the overall prize pool is awarded. The contest rewards always vary, with $5,000 awarded to the winner of a “Tire Pressure Monitoring System” contest in October 2016.\n\nPatexia-community members can use the “Community” platform to share news items, analyses/opinions, and IP reviews for which a specific intellectual asset is examined in detail. Patexia has linked the IP-review section to its patent database to show the “real value” of intellectual assets.\n\nPatexia hosts its searchable databases and visualization tools regarding U.S. patents, U.S.-patent lawsuits, industry trends, company portfolios, and the details of patent professionals in its “Research” section. The visualization tool allows users to analyze the information, including the performance of a comparative analysis.\n\nThe “Connect” section of the Patexia website provides a “marketplace” for IP-employment opportunities in the legal and consultancy areas, with the openings including those for litigation associates, patent agents, and technical consultants.\n\nIn addition to the promotion of efficiency, the “driving” of innovation has also been listed as an aim of Patexia, and Sameni has revealed his views on the progression of the IP field through the media. Regarding crowdsourcing, he said to \"Legal NewsLine\" in December 2014 that it can “help with [the] creative idea generation process” and can “serve as the foundation of future patents and innovation within an industry.”\n\nAlso in December 2014, he proposed an “initial opt-in” program to improve the efficiency of the USPTO, whereby “crowdsourced prior art research” would be merged with the organization’s patent-application process. Sameni cited the Pareto Principle, which suggests “80 percent of outcomes are the result of 20 percent of causes,” explaining: “Essentially, we [Patexia] recommend that the USPTO apply crowdsourcing to ‘the 20 percent’ of patent applications thus increasing efficiency overall, rather than applying crowdsourcing to every application under review.”\n\nSemani was invited to sit on a November 2014 USPTO roundtable discussion regarding the use of crowdsourcing for the identification of the relevant prior art for patent applications. The USPTO announcement stated that “crowdsourcing may be a promising way to uncover hard-to-find prior art, especially non-patent literature.”\n\nIn March 2015, Sameni explained the importance of crowdsourcing in patent litigation to the \"InsideCounsel\" publication: “At the root of all of the recent controversy and debate, the real issue with the United States patent system is patent quality. If each patent was trusted to be an unimpeachable asset it would remove many of the reasons behind the high litigation rates we see today.”\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4360581", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4360581", "title": "Perez v. Sharp", "text": "Perez v. Sharp\n\nPerez v. Sharp, also known as Perez v. Lippold or Perez v. Moroney, is a 1948 case decided by the Supreme Court of California in which the court held by a 4–3 majority that the state's ban on interracial marriage violated the Fourteenth Amendment to the United States Constitution.\n\nThe three-justice plurality decision was authored by Associate Justice Roger J. Traynor who would later serve as the Court's Chief Justice. Justice Douglas L. Edmonds wrote his own concurrence of the judgment, leading to a four-justice majority in favor of striking down the law. The dissent was written by Associate Justice John W. Shenk, the second longest-serving member in the Court's history and a notable judicial conservative. The opinion was the first of any state to strike down an anti-miscegenation law in the United States.\n\nAndrea Perez (a Mexican American woman) and Sylvester Davis (an African American man) met while working in the defense industry in Los Angeles.\n\nPerez and Davis applied for a marriage license with the County Clerk of Los Angeles. On the application for a marriage license, Andrea Perez listed her race as \"white\", and Sylvester Davis identified himself as \"Negro\". Under the California law, individuals of Mexican ancestry generally were classified as white because of their Spanish heritage.\n\nThe County Clerk, named W. G. Sharp, refused to issue the license based on California Civil Code, Section 60: \"All marriages of white persons with Negroes, Mongolians, members of the Malay race, or mulattoes are illegal and void\" and on Section 69, which stated that \"no license may be issued authorizing the marriage of a white person with a Negro, mulatto, Mongolian or member of the Malay race\". At the time, California's anti-miscegenation statute had banned interracial marriage since 1850, when it first enacted a statute prohibiting whites from marrying blacks or mulattoes.\n\nPerez, represented by Attorney Daniel G. Marshall, petitioned the California Supreme Court for an original writ of mandamus to compel the issuance of the license. Perez and Davis were both Catholics and wanted a Catholic marriage with a Mass.\n\nOne of their primary arguments, adopted by Justice Douglas Edmonds in his concurring opinion, was that the Church was willing to marry them and so the state's anti-miscegenation law infringed on their right to participate fully in the sacraments of their religion, including the sacrament of matrimony.\n\nThe court held that marriage is a fundamental right and that laws restricting that right must not be based solely on prejudice. The lead opinion by Justice Roger Traynor and joined by Chief Justice Phil Gibson and Justice Jesse Carter, held that restrictions due to discrimination violated the constitutional requirements of due process and equal protection of the laws. The court voided the California statute, holding that Section 69 of the California Civil Code was too vague and uncertain to be enforceable restrictions on the fundamental right of marriage and that they violated the Fourteenth Amendment by impairing the right to marry on the basis of race alone. In a separate concurring opinion, Justice Douglas Edmonds held that the statute violated the religious freedom of the plaintiffs, since the anti-miscegenation law infringed on their right to participate fully in the sacrament of matrimony.\n\nBy its decision in this case, the California Supreme Court became the first court of the 20th century to hold that a state anti-miscegenation law violates the US Constitution. It preceded \"Loving v. Virginia\", the case in which the United States Supreme Court invalidated all such state statutes, by 19 years, and antedated the civil rights milestones such as \"Brown v. Board of Education\" from which Loving benefited. Indeed, in \"Loving\", Chief Justice Warren cited \"Perez\" in footnote 5, and at least one scholar has discussed the extent to which Perez influenced his opinion.\n\n\"Perez\" was much of the basis for the California Supreme Court's 2008 decision, \"In re Marriage Cases\" (2008) 43 Cal. 4th 757, which declared that the California law restricting marriage to be between a man and a woman to be unconstitutional, on \"Perez\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2705547", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2705547", "title": "Plant Patent Act of 1930", "text": "Plant Patent Act of 1930\n\nThe Plant Patent Act of 1930 (enacted on 1930-06-17 as Title III of the Smoot–Hawley Tariff, ch. 497, , codified as 35 U.S.C. Ch. 15) is a United States federal law spurred by the work of Luther Burbank. \n\nThis piece of legislation made it possible to patent new varieties of plants, excluding sexual and tuber-propagated plants (\"see\" Plant Variety Protection Act of 1970). In supporting the legislation, Thomas Edison testified before Congress in support of the legislation and said,\n\nPlant patents PP12, PP13, PP14, PP15, PP16, PP18, PP41, PP65, PP66, PP235, PP266, PP267, PP269, PP290, PP291 and PP1041 were issued to Burbank posthumously.\n"}
{"id": "2681055", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2681055", "title": "Priority date", "text": "Priority date\n\nPriority date is a United States immigration concept – it is the date when a principal applicant first reveals his intent of immigration to the US government. For family-sponsored applicants, the priority date is the date an immigration petition, filed on behalf of him or her, is received by the United States Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS). For employment-based immigration beneficiaries, the priority date is the date an immigration petition is filed at USCIS, under categories where a labor certification is not required, or when the United States Department of Labor receives a labor certification application, under categories where a labor certification is required. In all cases, the priority dates are not established until USCIS approves the immigration petition. The date establishes one's place in the queue for a family-sponsored or employment-based or permanent residency permit (also known as \"green card\") application.\n\nThe United States Department of State publishes a monthly Visa Bulletin which lists cut-off dates for different immigration categories and countries of birth. Only those intending applicants with priority dates before the cut-off date are permitted to file their Adjustment of Status (AOS) applications or attend immigrant visa interviews at consulates. The cut-off dates generally move forward over time as old cases are approved or abandoned. However, in certain cases, such as if a large number of old cases work their way through the system at about the same time, the cut-off dates can actually \"retrogress\" (or roll back). If an individual already has a pending AOS application on file when a retrogression occurs that places the cut-off earlier than the applicant's priority date, USCIS sets the application aside and will not adjudicate it until the priority date is current again. As an example, after months of stagnation, in June 2007 the priority date cut-offs for employment-based second and third-preference (EB2 and EB3) applicants (the bulk of employment-based green card applicants) advanced dramatically for all countries of birth. On the low end, the cut-off advanced eight months for immigrants from mainland China for EB2 category. EB3 for India-born applicants has moved forward 25 months, the most of any category, thus impacting a huge number of workers with jobs requiring bachelor's degrees.\n\nFor individuals starting the employment-based green card process now, country of chargeability and job requirements are paramount in determining how long the overall process will take. Individuals from countries of chargeability other than China or India with jobs requiring a master's degree can complete the entire process, from labor certification to receiving the green card, within approximately 1-2 years from start to finish, if there is no backlog of visa availability, i.e., all priority dates are current. Workers whose immigrant visas are chargeable to China or India with jobs requiring only a bachelor's degree can expect to wait several years after their employer files the labor certification and immigrant visa petition to become eligible to file the final application for the green card itself.\n\n"}
{"id": "1829237", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829237", "title": "Rosika Schwimmer", "text": "Rosika Schwimmer\n\nRosika \"Rózsa\" Bédy-Schwimmer (best known as Rosika Schwimmer, September 11, 1877 – August 3, 1948) was a Hungarian-born pacifist, feminist and female suffragist. She was one of the first world federalists, and served as one of the world's first female ambassadors (from Hungary to Switzerland) in 1918.\n\nRosika Schwimmer was born to a Jewish family in Budapest in Austria-Hungary. She studied music and languages but when family finances deteriorated in 1896, she began to work as a bookkeeper.\n\nIn 1897 she organized the Association of Hungarian Women Clerks and in 1904, Schwimmer founded the Hungarian Feminist Association (), along with other prominent feminists like Eugénia Miskolczy Meller. She helped to found Hungarian National Council of Women, and was a board member in the Hungarian Peace Society. In 1909, the Minister of the Interior appointed her to the governing board of child welfare.\n\nIn 1913, she became a corresponding secretary of the International Woman Suffrage Alliance (IWSA). Schwimmer toured Europe with Carrie Chapman Catt to lecture on female suffrage. She also edited the magazine \"A nő\" (\"The Woman\"). In 1914 Schwimmer moved to London and worked as a correspondent of various European newspapers and press secretary for IWSA. When World War I broke out, she could not return home and began to agitate for the end of hostilities. In 1914, she toured the US to demand President Woodrow Wilson form a neutral conference to end the war. In 1915 she took part in the formation of the Woman's Peace Party.\n\nAt the International Congress of Women, 28 April - 10 May 1915, The Hague, Netherlands Schwimmer's proposal for a Neutral Conference for Continuous Mediation between the governments of the belligerents was adopted. Later that year, she gained the support of Henry Ford, who chartered a Peace Ship to Stockholm. Disappointed with Ford's efforts, she later organized the International Committee for Immediate Mediation in June 1916. After the armistice, Schwimmer became vice-president of the Women's International League for Peace and Freedom.\n\nWhen Hungary gained independence from Austria-Hungary in 1918, prime minister Mihály Károlyi appointed Schwimmer to be ambassador to Switzerland. When the communists gained control of the government in 1919, she opposed them and lost her civil rights. In 1920, when Miklós Horthy's government ousted the communists, she fled to Vienna and in 1921 to the USA. She settled in Chicago and did not move back to Hungary, where she had contributed to building the foundation for future women in Hungarian politics.\n\nHer pacifist beliefs got Schwimmer labeled as a socialist in the US. She spent most of her remaining life fighting slander against her person. When Fred Marvin accused her of being a German spy and a Bolshevist agent, she sued and received $17,000 in damages. However, she could not gain US citizenship because of her pacifism; the US Supreme Court ruled against her in \"United States v. Schwimmer\" (1929). In 1946, \"United States v. Schwimmer\" was overturned in \"Girouard v. United States.\" She spent the rest of her life in the country as a stateless person.\n\nLater in life, Schwimmer tried to create a world government. In 1935, she formed the World Centre for Women's Archives with Mary Ritter Beard. She received the World Peace Prize in 1937. At the same year she formed the Campaign for World Government with Lola Maverick Lloyd, the first World Federalist organization of the 20th century. Later in the 20th century, the federalist movement have successfully led the campaign and coalition for creating an International Criminal Court, which Schwimmer rarely gets credit for. In 1947 she was nominated for Nobel Peace Prize but had no chance of obtaining it as the prize was not awarded the next year.\n\nRosika Schwimmer died of pneumonia on August 3, 1948 in New York City.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28577607", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28577607", "title": "Rwandan constitutional referendum, 2003", "text": "Rwandan constitutional referendum, 2003\n\nA constitutional referendum was held in Rwanda on 26 May 2003. The new constitution created a presidential republic with a bicameral parliament, and banned the incitement of racial hatred. It was approved by 93% of voters with a 90% voter turnout. Following its approval, presidential elections were held on 25 August and parliamentary elections on 29-30 September.\n"}
{"id": "32058761", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32058761", "title": "Semantic Copyright", "text": "Semantic Copyright\n\nSemantic Copyright is a technological system that provides semantic information of intellectual property rights of works in digital format, which identifies by its own morphology. The project began in May 2009 after its presentation at the Role of Copyright Registries en Global Digital Networks and its first version was published and released their rights of use and deployment in March 2011. Its development has been developed by the Copyright Registry Safe Creative, the Artificial Intelligence Department of the Technical University of Madrid and Dialnet, supported by Ministry of Industry, Tourism and Trade of Spain .\n\nProvides a framework based on semantic information, which enables systems to conduct automated telematics intellectual property rights of the files transmitted with content such as text, images, music, video, computer programs, etc. The three subsystems that make up the technological framework that includes Semantic Copyright are:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3871336", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3871336", "title": "Serbian nationality law", "text": "Serbian nationality law\n\nSerbian nationality law is based primarily on the principle of Jus sanguinis. Article 23 of the law stipulates that any foreign national with Serbian descent has the right to acquire Serbian citizenship by written request. The law also allows dual citizenship, allowing an individual the right to retain his or her current citizenship and receive Serbian citizenship.\n\nThe 2007 amendments enabled ethnic Serbs residing outside Serbia the right to citizenship. These amendments, adopted after the Montenegrin independence referendum, 2006, also allowed citizens of Montenegro living in Serbia the right to gain citizenship, if they submit the request within a 5-year period.\n\n\n\nIn 2015, Serbian citizens had visa-free or visa on arrival access to 110 countries and territories, ranking the Serbian passport 43rd in the world according to the Visa Restrictions Index.\n\nThe Serbian passport is one of the 5 passports with the most improved rating globally since 2006 in terms of the number of countries that its holders may visit without a visa.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50617243", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50617243", "title": "Spokeo, Inc. v. Robins", "text": "Spokeo, Inc. v. Robins\n\nSpokeo, Inc. v. Robins, 578 U.S. ___ (2016), was a United States Supreme Court case in which the Court vacated and remanded a ruling by United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit on the basis that the Ninth Circuit had not properly determined whether the plaintiff has suffered an \"injury-in-fact\" when analyzing whether he had standing to bring his case in federal court. The Court did not discuss whether \"the Ninth Circuit’s ultimate conclusion — that Robins adequately alleged an injury in fact — was correct.\"\n\nSpokeo, Inc. operates a .com website featuring a \"people search engine\" with which its users can obtain in-depth consumer reports on individual persons. In 2010, a class action law firm sued Spokeo in the United States District Court for the Central District of California, alleging violations of the Fair Credit Reporting Act (FCRA). Thomas Robins, the named plaintiff, alleged that he was unemployed while Spokeo's profile of him falsely stated that he worked in a professional field, had a graduate degree, was a married parent, had a high level of wealth, and included a false age and profile photograph. In January 2011, Judge Otis D. Wright II dismissed the initial complaint for not alleging \"any actual or imminent harm\" after which Robins amended his complaint to allege employment, stress and anxiety injuries. In May 2011, Judge Wright found Robins had alleged a valid injury-in-fact before then reversing himself and dismissing the case for lack of standing after Spokeo filed for an appeal.\n\nIn June 2012, Spokeo agreed to pay $800,000 to settle a separate FCRA based lawsuit filed by the Federal Trade Commission.\n\nIn February 2014, a unanimous panel of the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit reversed Judge Wright's dismissal and remanded the case. Judge Diarmuid O'Scannlain, joined by Judges Susan P. Graber and Carlos Bea, reasoned that Robins had alleged injuries sufficient to establish standing because FCRA protected individual, rather than collective, rights and Robins was suing for a violation of his own statutory rights. In a footnote, the Circuit explicitly found it did not need to reach Robins' additional allegations regarding injuries to his employment prospects or from anxiety.\n\nThe Supreme Court of the United States granted Spokeo's petition for a writ of certiorari and one-hour of oral arguments were heard on November 2, 2015, where Deputy U.S. Solicitor General Malcom Stewart appeared for the government as a friend in support of Robins.\n\nOn May 16, 2016, the Supreme Court delivered judgment in favor of Spokeo, vacating and remanding by a vote of 6-2. Justice Samuel Alito, joined by Chief Justice John Roberts, as well as Justices Anthony Kennedy, Clarence Thomas, Stephen Breyer, and Elena Kagan, wrote that the circuit below had failed to establish that Robins had standing to file the lawsuit under Article Three of the United States Constitution.\n\nThe Court first explained that the Constitution's Case or Controversy Clause requires any plaintiff to allege an injury-in-fact that is \"concrete and particularized\". While the Ninth Circuit identified particular harms to Robins, it erred, according to the Court, by not also determining that those harms were \"concrete\". Although intangible harms such as risk can be concrete, the Court clarified, \"bare procedural violations\" cannot. The Court remanded the case while taking \"no position as to whether the Ninth Circuit’s ultimate conclusion— that Robins adequately alleged an injury in fact— was correct.\"\n\nJustice Clarence Thomas added a concurrence, alone. He wrote separately to describe his belief that the Constitution's Case or Controversy requirement is founded upon the common law distinction between private rights and public rights as articulated by William Blackstone.\n\nJustice Ruth Bader Ginsburg, joined by Sonia Sotomayor, dissented. Justice Ginsburg wrote that she agreed with much of the Court’s opinion but saw \"no utility\" in remanding the case back to the Ninth Circuit. Justice Ginsburg saw the many inaccuracies published by Spokeo as concretely harming Robins and, as such, she would have simply affirmed.\n\nOn August 15, 2017, the Ninth Circuit again allowed Robins' lawsuit to proceed. Judge O'Scannlain, joined by the same judges as before, now found that Robins had alleged a sufficiently concrete harm to establish an injury in fact under the Constitution. Relying on an \"amicus curiae\" brief filed by the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau in support of Robins, Judge O'Scannlain determined that publishing even flattering inaccuracies could harm a job seeker.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4760452", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4760452", "title": "Tax Day", "text": "Tax Day\n\nIn the United States, Tax Day is a colloquial term for the day on which individual income tax returns are due to be submitted to the federal government. The term may also refer to the same day for individual states, even where the tax return due date is a different day.\n\nSince 1955, for those living in the United States, Tax Day has typically fallen on April 15. For people who file a U.S. tax return and live outside the United States and Puerto Rico, Tax Day has typically fallen on June 15, because of the two-month automatic extension granted to filers by IRS Publication 54.\n\nEmancipation Day, a holiday in Washington, D.C. commemorating the emancipation in April 1862 of enslaved people of African descent and which is observed on the weekday closest to April 16, causes special rules to apply: when April 15 falls on a Friday, tax returns are due the following Monday; when April 15 falls on a Saturday or Sunday, tax returns are due the following Tuesday.\n\nFederal income tax was introduced with the Revenue Act of 1861 to help fund the Civil War, and subsequently repealed, re-adopted, and held unconstitutional. The early taxes were based on assessments, not voluntary tax returns. Tax payment dates varied by act.\n\nThe case of \"Pollock v. Farmers' Loan & Trust Co.\" challenged the constitutionality of the Wilson–Gorman Tariff Act of 1894, which taxed incomes over $4,000 at the rate of two percent. The case was decided by the United States Supreme Court in 1895. The Supreme Court decided that the Act's unapportioned income taxes on interest, dividends, and rents were effectively direct taxes. The Act was therefore unconstitutional because it violated the Constitution's rule that direct taxes be apportioned among the states. In 1913, eighteen years later, the Sixteenth Amendment to the United States Constitution was ratified. This Amendment gave the United States Congress the legal authority to tax all incomes without regard to the apportionment requirement.\n\nThe filing deadline for individuals was March 1 in 1913 (the first year of a federal income tax), and was changed to March 15 in 1918 and again to April 15 in 1955. Today, the filing deadline for U.S. federal income tax returns for individuals remains April 15 or, in the event that the 15th falls on a Saturday, Sunday or holiday, the first succeeding day that is not a Saturday, Sunday or holiday.\n\nTax Day occasionally falls on Patriots' Day, a civic holiday in the Commonwealth of Massachusetts and state of Maine, or the preceding weekend. When this occurred for some time, the federal tax deadline was extended by a day for the residents of Maine, Maryland, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, New York, Vermont, and the District of Columbia, because the IRS processing center for these areas was located in Andover, Massachusetts and the unionized IRS employees got the day off. In 2011, the Monday, April 18, Tax Day fell on Patriots' Day. However, federal filings were directed to Hartford, Connecticut, Charlotte, North Carolina and Kansas City, Missouri and there was no further extension for Maine, Massachusetts or other surrounding states' residents. The Maine state tax filing deadline was still extended to April 19 in 2011 by Patriots' Day.\n\nEmancipation Day is celebrated in Washington D.C. on the weekday nearest April 16, and under a federal statute enacted decades ago, holidays observed in the District of Columbia have an impact nationwide. If April 15 falls on a Friday then Emancipation Day is celebrated on the same day and tax returns are instead due the following Monday, April 18. When April 15 falls on a Saturday or Sunday then Emancipation Day is celebrated on the following Monday and tax returns are instead due on Tuesday.\n\nIn 2007 a powerful storm and flooding affected the eastern coast, and certain states were granted additional time to file. In some cases, the deadline was extended to as late as June 25.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22076843", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22076843", "title": "Taxor", "text": "Taxor\n\nA Taxor was a representative of the University of Cambridge who exercised the University's rights to intervene in trade in the town of Cambridge, England. One senior and one junior taxor was elected each year, and each had to be an MA of the University. These posts have not been filled since 1856.\n\nSince the 13th century the University had special privileges and jurisdiction to control aspects of life in the town. Matters relating to morality and discipline were managed by Proctors and those relating to trade were managed by Taxors, whose responsibilities included:\n\n\nBy the first half of the nineteenth century Benthamite reform had transformed the role of the borough and increasingly the trade and financial privileges of the University caused friction between \"town and gown\", with the town's deputy High Steward declaring in 1842 that supervision of weights and measures by Taxors was \"quite inadequate for the purpose at the present day.\"\n\nIn 1853-4, conflict between the growing jurisdiction of magistrates' courts and the historical duties of the University Proctors was the trigger for a schism between the University and the Borough. The University suggested that the dispute be referred to parliament and Sir John Patteson was appointed as arbitrator to consider their differences. His 1855 report recommended that Proctors should not have to submit to the jurisdiction of magistrates, but called on the University to surrender its rights over trade and licensing. When his proposals were enacted as the Cambridge Award Act 1856, the office of Taxor was discontinued.\n"}
{"id": "13118824", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13118824", "title": "The Road Rights and Liabilities of Wheelmen", "text": "The Road Rights and Liabilities of Wheelmen\n\nThe Road Rights and Liabilities of Wheelmen written by George B. Clementson at the height of the bicycle's golden age, in 1895, was the first treatise on bicycle law. In the 1880s and 1890s, the prevailing legal issue cyclists (or wheelmen as they were then called) faced was the question of the right to the road. In a series of seminal right to the road cases, cyclists gained legal rights that form the basis of cyclist's legal rights today. Although bicycle law has developed substantially since 1895, \"The Road Rights and Liabilities of Wheelmen\" continues to serve as an outstanding resource for those early right to the road cases.\n\n"}
{"id": "7961629", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7961629", "title": "Union democracy", "text": "Union democracy\n\nUnion democracy is a term referring to the governance of trade unions, in terms of the quality of election procedures at ensuring the executives of a union most accurately represent the interests of the members.\n\nIn 1911, a German sociologist, Robert Michels propounded a view that all democratic organisations were prone to become oligarchies because of the growth and size of modern organisations, the need for specialisation of officials, and the necessity that this division of labour would lead the rank and file to struggle to understand the activities of their leaders. Michels argued that this amounted to an iron law of oligarchy: all groups, regardless of how democratic they may be at the start, eventually and inevitably develop into oligarchies with swollen bureaucracies. Michels himself, after falling out with the German Social Democrat Party, migrated to Italy and joined Mussolini's Fascist Party. Nevertheless, his ideas were popularized after the Second World War in particular by Seymour Martin Lipset, Trow, and James Samuel Coleman in a book entitled, \"\" (1957). This book argued that the ITU was an exception to Michels' general law, and that the conditions necessary to ensure democracy were that an opposition to the union's leadership could form. This depended on ensuring the leadership did not monopolize the channels of communication with members. Lipset and his coauthors confined their understanding of \"democracy\" to the existence of organised opposition. They were skeptical that the conditions in the ITU, which made it democratic, were likely to arise in many other unions spontaneously. Following this, in 1959, the US Federal government passed the Landrum-Griffin Act 1959 to mandate democratic principles be followed in union governance.\n\n\nPrinciples include:\n\nWhile there are some superficial similarities to the so-called organizing model of union activity, advocates of union democracy are swift to point out that many of the alleged exemplars of the organizing model do not, in their internal structure, meet the requirements listed above.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22795593", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22795593", "title": "United States and the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea", "text": "United States and the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea\n\nThe United States was among the nations that participated in the third United Nations Conference on the Law of the Sea, which took place from 1973 through 1982 and resulted in the international treaty known as the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS). The United States also participated in the subsequent negotiations of modifications to the treaty from 1990 to 1994. The UNCLOS came into force in 1994. Although the United States now recognizes the UNCLOS as a codification of customary international law, it has not ratified it.\n\nUNCLOS, also called the Law of the Sea Convention or the Law of the Sea Treaty, defines the rights and responsibilities of nations in their use of the world's oceans; it establishes guidelines for businesses, the environment, and the management of marine natural resources. To date, 162 countries and the European Union have joined the Convention.\n\nThe Third United Nations Conference on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS III) was convened in late 1973 in New York. The most significant issues which were covered were setting limits, navigation, archipelagic status and transit regimes, exclusive economic zones (EEZs), continental shelf jurisdiction, deep seabed mining, the exploitation regime, protection of the marine environment, scientific research, and settlement of maritime boundary disputes. With more than 160 nations participating, the Conference continued until its final meeting in late 1982, at which time the final act was signed and the Convention was opened for signature. As time went on, it became clear that the United States, among other developed states, was not willing to agree to Part XI of the Convention concerning deep seabed portions and mining of potentially valuable metals.\n\nThe United States objected to Part XI of the Convention on several grounds, arguing that the treaty was unfavorable to American economic and security interests. The U.S. claimed that the provisions of the treaty were not free-market friendly and were designed to favor the economic systems of the Communist states. The U.S. also argued that the International Seabed Authority established by the Convention might become a bloated and expensive bureaucracy, due to a combination of large revenues and insufficient control over what the revenues could be used for.\n\nThe United States accepted all but Part XI as customary international law. In March 1983 President Ronald Reagan, through Proclamation No. 5030, claimed a 200-mile exclusive economic zone. In December 1988 President Reagan, through Proclamation No. 5928, extended U.S. territorial waters from three nautical miles to twelve nautical miles for national security purposes. However a legal opinion from the Justice Department questioned the President's constitutional authority to extend sovereignty as Congress has the power to make laws concerning the territory belonging to the United States under the U.S. Constitution. In any event, Congress needs to pass laws defining if the extended waters, including oil and mineral rights, are under State or Federal control.\n\nFrom 1983 to 1990, the United States attempted to establish an alternative regime for exploitation of the minerals of the deep seabed. An agreement was made with other seabed mining nations and licenses were granted to four international consortia. Concurrently, the Preparatory Commission was established to prepare for the eventual coming into force of the Convention-recognized claims by applicants, sponsored by signatories of the Convention. Overlaps between the two groups were resolved, but a decline in the demand for minerals from the seabed made the seabed regime significantly less relevant. In addition, the decline of Socialism and the fall of Communism in the late 1980s had removed much of the support for some of the more contentious Part XI provisions.\n\nIn 1990, consultations were begun between signatories and non-signatories (including the United States) over the possibility of modifying the Convention to allow the industrialized countries to join the Convention. The resulting 1994 Agreement on Implementation was adopted as a binding international Convention. It mandated that key articles, including those on limitation of seabed production and mandatory technology transfer, would not be applied, that the United States, if it became a member, would be guaranteed a seat on the Council of the International Seabed Authority, and finally, that voting would be done in groups, with each group able to block decisions on substantive matters. The 1994 Agreement also established a Finance Committee that would originate the financial decisions of the Authority, to which the largest donors would automatically be members and in which decisions would be made by consensus.\n\nThus, modifications to that provision were negotiated, and an amending agreement was finalized in July 1994. The U.S. signed the Agreement in 1994 and now recognizes the Convention as general international law, but has not ratified it at this time. UNCLOS entered into force in November 1994 with the requisite sixty ratifications.\n\nOn April 24, 2004 Jeane Kirkpatrick (Reagan Administration United Nations Ambassador 1981–1985), testified against United States ratification of the treaty before the Senate Armed Services Committee, in which she argued that \"Viewed from the perspective of U.S. interests and Reagan Administration principles, it was a bad bargain,\" and that \"its ratification will diminish our capacity for self-government, including, ultimately, our capacity for self-defense.\"\n\nOn April 11, 2006, the 5-Member UNCLOS Annex VII Arbitral Tribunal, presided over by H.E. Judge Stephen M. Schwebel, rendered after two years of international judicial proceedings, the landmark Barbados/Trinidad and Tobago Award, which resolved the maritime boundary delimitation (in the East, Central and West sectors) to satisfaction of both Parties and committed Barbados and Trinidad and Tobago to resolve their fisheries dispute by means of concluding a new Fisheries Agreement.\n\nOn May 15, 2007, U.S. President George W. Bush announced that he had urged the Senate to approve UNCLOS.\n\nOn September 20, 2007, an Arbitral Tribunal constituted under UNCLOS issued its decision on a longstanding maritime boundary dispute between Guyana and Suriname, which contained a ruling blaming both nations for violating treaty obligations.\n\nOn October 31, 2007, the Senate Foreign Relations Committee voted 17–4 to send the treaty to the full U.S. Senate for a vote.\n\nOn January 13, 2009, speaking at her Senate confirmation hearing as nominee for U.S. secretary of state, Senator Hillary Clinton said that ratification of the Law of the Sea Treaty would be a priority for her.\n\nOn May 23, 2012, Secretary of State Hillary Clinton testified before the U.S. Senate Committee on Foreign Relations and argued for the ratification of the treaty. During the same hearing, Secretary of Defense Leon Panetta and Joint Chiefs of Staff Chairman General Martin Dempsey also urged swift ratification of the Law of the Sea Treaty.\n\nOn June 14, 2012, The U.S. Senate Committee on Foreign Relations held the so-called \"24 Star\" hearing, featuring six four-star generals and admirals representing every branch of the U.S. Armed Forces. Each witness, including the Vice Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, Chief of Naval Operations, Commandant of the Coast Guard, Commander of U.S. Transportation Command, Commander of U.S. Northern Command, and Commander of the U.S. Pacific Command all testified in favor of ratifying the treaty. However, later, the same Committee heard from retired general and flag officers collectively having 33 stars and testifying unanimously against UNCLOS ratification.\n\nOn June 28, 2012, the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, the American Petroleum Institute (API), the National Association of Manufacturers (NAM) and Verizon Communications testified before the U.S. Senate Committee on Foreign Relations that the Law of the Sea Treaty would strengthen the U.S. economy and help create American jobs.\n\nOn July 16, 2012, 34 Republican Senators signed a letter to U.S. Senate Foreign Relations Committee Chairman John Kerry pledging to vote against the treaty. Because treaty ratification in the U.S. requires 2/3 of the United States Senate to vote for approval, the 34 signatories are enough to stop treaty ratificiation. However, Senator Lisa Murkowski later said that the vote to deny passage in 2012 was purely political and that the U.S. Chamber of Commerce would deliver enough Republican votes for passage in the lame duck session.\n\nIn the United States there has been vigorous debate over the ratification of the treaty, with criticism coming mainly from political conservatives who consider involvement in some international organizations and treaties as detrimental to U.S. national interests. A group of Republican senators led by Jim Inhofe of Oklahoma blocked American ratification of the Convention, claiming that it would impinge on U.S. sovereignty. Other commentators have argued that although the Bush administration, the Pentagon and the Senate Foreign Relations Committee favored ratification, other U.S. congressional committees possessing oversight jurisdiction have yet to undertake an open, transparent and substantive public review of this most complex treaty's significant environmental regulatory and judicial enforcement provisions, their relationship to the provisions of other multilateral environmental treaties, and the need to amend U.S. federal environmental, wildlife, chemicals and offshore drilling laws and/or regulations in order to implement the international legal obligations the U.S. would assume upon ratification of UNCLOS. It is arguable whether such a review would have revealed the relationship between U.S. UNCLOS accession efforts, environmental legislation previously proposed by members of the 111th Congress and oceans policies adopted by the Obama administration.\n\n</div>\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "89061", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89061", "title": "University of Bonn", "text": "University of Bonn\n\nThe University of Bonn () is a public research university located in Bonn, Germany. It was founded in its present form as the Rhein University on 18 October 1818 by Frederick William III, as the linear successor of the Kurkölnische Akademie Bonn () which was founded in 1777. The University of Bonn offers a large number of undergraduate and graduate programs in a range of subjects and has 544 professors and 32,500 students. Its library holds more than five million volumes.\n\nAs of August 2018, among its notable alumni, faculty and researchers are 10 Nobel Laureates, 4 Fields Medalists, twelve Gottfried Wilhelm Leibniz Prize winners, Prince Albert, Pope Benedict XVI, Frederick III, Karl Marx, Heinrich Heine, Friedrich Nietzsche, Konrad Adenauer, and Joseph Schumpeter.\n\nThe Times Higher Education World University Rankings 2016 and the Academic Ranking of World Universities 2015 ranked the University of Bonn as one of the 100 best universities in the world.\n\nThe university's forerunner was the \"Kurkölnische Akademie Bonn\" (English: Academy of the Prince-elector of Cologne) which was founded in 1777 by Maximilian Frederick of Königsegg-Rothenfels, the prince-elector of Cologne. In the spirit of the Enlightenment the new academy was nonsectarian. The academy had schools for theology, law, pharmacy and general studies. In 1784 Emperor Joseph II granted the academy the right to award academic degrees (\"Licentiat\" and Ph.D.), turning the academy into a university. The academy was closed in 1798 after the left bank of the Rhine was occupied by France during the French Revolutionary Wars.\n\nThe Rhineland became a part of Prussia in 1815 as a result of the Congress of Vienna. King Frederick William III of Prussia thereafter decreed the establishment of a new university in the new province (German: \"den aus Landesväterlicher Fürsorge für ihr Bestes gefaßten Entschluß, in Unsern Rheinlanden eine Universität zu errichten\") on 18 October 1818. At this time there was no university in the Rhineland, as all three universities that existed until the end of the 18th century were closed as a result of the French occupation. The Kurkölnische Akademie Bonn was one of these three universities. The other two were the Roman Catholic University of Cologne and the Protestant University of Duisburg.\n\nThe new Rhein University (German: \"Rhein-Universität\") was then founded on 18 October 1818 by Frederick William III. It was the sixth Prussian University, founded after the universities in Greifswald, Berlin, Königsberg, Halle and Breslau. The new university was equally shared between the two Christian denominations. This was one of the reasons why Bonn, with its tradition of a nonsectarian university, was chosen over Cologne and Duisburg. Apart from a school of Roman Catholic theology and a school of Protestant theology, the university had schools for medicine, law and philosophy. Initially 35 professors and eight adjunct professors were teaching in Bonn.\n\nThe university constitution was adopted in 1827. In the spirit of Wilhelm von Humboldt the constitution emphasized the autonomy of the university and the unity of teaching and research. Similar to the University of Berlin, which was founded in 1810, the new constitution made the University of Bonn a modern research university.\n\nOnly one year after the inception of the Rhein University the dramatist August von Kotzebue was murdered by Karl Ludwig Sand, a student at the University of Jena. The Carlsbad Decrees, introduced on 20 September 1819 led to a general crackdown on universities, the dissolution of the Burschenschaften and the introduction of censorship laws. One victim was the author and poet Ernst Moritz Arndt, who, freshly appointed university professor in Bonn, was banned from teaching. Only after the death of Frederick William III in 1840 was he reinstated in his professorship. Another consequence of the Carlsbad Decrees was the refusal by Frederick William III to confer the chain of office, the official seal and an official name to the new university. The Rhein University was thus nameless until 1840, when the new King of Prussia, Frederick William IV gave it the official name Rheinische Friedrich-Wilhelms-Universität. (This last sentence conflicts with pg. 176 of \"Die Preussischen Universitäten\", which states a cabinet order on 28 June 1828 gave the university the following name: Rheinische Friedrich-Wilhelms Universität.)\nDespite these problems, the university grew and attracted famous scholars and students. At the end of the 19th century the university was also known as the \"Prinzenuniversität\" (English:\"Princes' university\"), as many of the sons of the king of Prussia studied here. In 1900, the university had 68 chairs, 23 adjunct chairs, two honorary professors, 57 Privatdozenten and six lecturers. Since 1896, women were allowed to attend classes as guest auditors at universities in Prussia. In 1908 the University of Bonn became fully coeducational.\n\nThe growth of the university came to a halt with World War I. Financial and economic problems in Germany in the aftermath of the war resulted in reduced government funding for the university. The University of Bonn responded by trying to find private and industrial sponsors. In 1930 the university adopted a new constitution. For the first time students were allowed to participate in the self-governing university administration. To that effect the student council Astag (German: \"Allgemeine Studentische Arbeitsgemeinschaft\") was founded in the same year. Members of the student council were elected in a secret ballot.\n\nAfter the Nazi takeover of power in 1933, the Gleichschaltung transformed the university into a Nazi educational institution. According to the Führerprinzip the autonomous and self-governening administration of the university was replaced by a hierarchy of leaders resembling the military, with the university president being subordinate to the ministry of education. Jewish professors and students and political opponents were ostracized and expelled from the university. The theologian Karl Barth was forced to resign and to emigrate to Switzerland for refusing to swear an oath to Hitler. The Jewish mathematician Felix Hausdorff was expelled from the university in 1935 and committed suicide after learning about his impending deportation to a concentration camp in 1942. The philosophers Paul Ludwig Landsberg and Johannes Maria Verweyen were deported and died in concentration camps. In 1937 Thomas Mann was deprived of his honorary doctorate. His honorary degree was restored in 1946.\n\nDuring the second World War the university suffered heavy damage. An air raid on 18 October 1944 destroyed the main building.\n\nThe university was re-opened on 17 November 1945 as one of the first in the British occupation zone. The first university president was Heinrich Matthias Konen, who was expelled from the university in 1934 because of his opposition to Nazism. At the start of the first semester on 17 November 1945 the university had more than 10,000 applicants for only 2,500 places.\n\nThe university greatly expanded in the postwar period, in particular in the 1960s and 1970s. Significant events of the postwar era were the relocation of the university hospital from the city center to the Venusberg in 1949, the opening of the new university library in 1960 and the opening of a new building, the Juridicum, for the School of Law and Economics in 1967.\n\nIn 1980 the Pedagogigal University Bonn was merged into the University of Bonn, although eventually all the teachers education programs were closed in 2007. In 1983 the new science library was opened. In 1989 Wolfgang Paul was awarded the Nobel Prize in Physics. Three years later Reinhard Selten was awarded the Nobel Prize in Economics. The decision of the German government to move the capital from Bonn to Berlin after the reunification in 1991 resulted in generous compensation for the city of Bonn. The compensation package included three new research institutes affiliated or closely collaborating with the university, thus significantly enhancing the research profile of the University of Bonn.\n\nIn the 2000s the university implemented the Bologna process and replaced the traditional Diplom and Magister programs with Bachelor and Master programs. This process was completed by 2007.\n\nThe University of Bonn does not have a centralized campus. The main building is the \"Kurfürstliches Schloss\", the former residential palace of the prince-elector of Cologne in the city center. The main building was built by Enrico Zuccalli for the prince-elector of Cologne, Joseph Clemens of Bavaria from 1697–1705. Today it houses the faculty of humanities and theology and the university administration. The \"Hofgarten\", a large park in front of the main building is a popular place for students to meet, study and relax. The Hofgarten was repeatedly the place for political demonstrations as for example the demonstration against the NATO Double-Track Decision on 22 October 1981 with about 250,000 participants.\n\nThe school of law and economics, the main university library and several smaller departments are housed in modern buildings a short distance south of the main building. The department of psychology and the department of computer science are located in a northern suburb of Bonn.\n\nThe science departments and the main science library are located in Poppelsdorf and Endenich, west of the city center, and housed in a mix of historical and modern buildings. Notable is the Poppelsdorf Palace (German: \"Poppelsdorfer Schloss\"), which was built from 1715 to 1753 by Robert de Cotte for Joseph Clemens of Bavaria and his successor Clemens August of Bavaria. Today the Poppelsdorf Palace houses the university's mineral collection and several science departments; its grounds are the university's botanical garden (the Botanische Gärten der Friedrich-Wilhelms-Universität Bonn).\n\nThe school of medicine is located on the Venusberg, a hill on the western edge of Bonn. Several residence halls are scattered across the city. In total the University of Bonn owns 371 buildings.\n\nThe university library was founded in 1818 and started with 6,000 volumes inherited from the library of the closed University of Duisburg. In 1824 the library became legal deposit for all books published in the Prussian Rhine province. The library contained about 200,000 volumes at the end of the 19th century, and about 600,000 volumes at the outbreak of World War II. An air raid on 10 October 1944 destroyed about 200,000 volumes and a large part of the library catalog. After the war the library was housed in several makeshift locations until the completion of the new central library in 1960. The new building was designed by Pierre Vago and Fritz Bornemann and is located close to the main building. In 1983 a new library building was opened in Poppelsdorf, west of the main building. The new library building houses the science, agriculture and medicine collections. Today, the university library system comprises the central library, the library for science, agriculture and medicine and about 160 smaller libraries. It holds 2.2 million volumes and subscribes to about 14,000 journals.\n\nThe university hospital (German:\"Universitätsklinikum Bonn\") was founded at the same time as the university and officially opened on 5 May 1819 in the Poppelsdorf Palace (German:\"Poppelsdorfer Schloss\") west of the main building. In its first year, the hospital had thirty beds, performed 93 surgeries and treated about 600 outpatients. In 1883 the hospital moved to a new building in the city center of Bonn, and after World War II to the Venusberg on the western edge of Bonn. On 1 January 2001 the university hospital became a public corporation. Although the university hospital is since then independent from the university, the School of Medicine of the University of Bonn and the university hospital closely collaborate. Today the university hospital comprises about thirty individual hospitals, employs more than 670 physicians and more than 1,100 nursing and clinical support staff and treated about 39,000 inpatients.\n\nThe Akademisches Kunstmuseum (English: \"Academic Museum of Antiquities\" ) was founded in 1818 and has one of the largest collections of plaster casts of ancient Greek and Roman sculptures in the world. At this time collections of plaster casts were mainly used in the instruction of students at art academies. They were first used in the instruction of university students in 1763 by Christian Gottlob Heyne at University of Göttingen. The Akademisches Kunstmuseum in Bonn was the first of its kind, as at this time collections at other universities were scattered around universities libraries. The first director was Friedrich Gottlieb Welcker, who also held a professorship of archaeology. His tenure was from 1819 until his retirement in 1854. He was succeeded by Otto Jahn and Friedrich Wilhelm Ritschl, who shared the directorship. From 1870 to 1889 Reinhard Kekulé von Stradonitz, nephew of the famous organic chemist Friedrich August Kekulé von Stradonitz, was the director. In 1872 the museum moved to a new building that was formerly used by the department of anatomy. The building was constructed from 1823 to 1830 and designed by Karl Friedrich Schinkel and Hermann Friedrich Waesemann. Other directors of the museum were Georg Loeschcke (from 1889 to 1912), Franz Winter (from 1912 to 1929), Richard Delbrück (from 1929 to 1940), Ernst Langlotz (from 1944 to 1966), Nikolaus Himmelmann (from 1969 to 1994) and Harald Mielsch (since 1994). All directors, with the exception of Friedrich Wilhelm Ritschl held a professorship of archaeology at the university.\n\nThe Egyptian Museum (German: \"Ägyptisches Museum\") was founded in 2001. The collection dates back to the 19th century and was formerly part of the Akademisches Kunstmuseum. Large parts of the collection were destroyed in World War II. Today the collection comprises about 3,000 objects.\n\nThe Arithmeum was opened in 1999. With over 1,200 objects it has the world's largest collection of historical mechanical calculating machines. The museum is affiliated with the Research Institute for Discrete Mathematics.\nThe Teaching Collection of Archaeology and Anthropology (German: \"Archäologisch-ethnographische Lehr- und Studiensammlung\") was opened in 2008. The collection comprises more than 7,500 objects of mostly pre-Columbian art.\n\nThe Botanical Garden was officially founded in 1818 and is located around the Poppelsdorf Palace. A garden existed at the same place at least since 1578, and around 1720 a Baroque garden was built for Clemens August of Bavaria. The first director of the Botanical Garden was Nees von Esenbeck from 1818 to 1830. In May 2003 the world's largest Titan arum, some 2.74 meters high, flowered in the Botanical Garden for three days.\n\nThe natural history museum was opened in 1820 by Georg August Goldfuss. It was the first public museum in the Rhineland. In 1882 it was split into the Mineralogical Museum located in the Poppelsdorf Palace and a museum of palaeontology, now named Goldfuß Museum of Palaeontology.\n\nThe Horst Stoeckel-Museum of the History of Anesthesiology (German: \"Horst Stoeckel-Museum für die Geschichte der Anästhesiologie\") was opened in 2000 and is the largest of its kind in Europe.\n\nThe Museum Koenig is one of the largest natural history museums in Germany and is affiliated with the university. The museum was founded in 1912 by Alexander Koenig, who donated his collection of mounted specimen to the public. See also the separate article Museum Koenig.\n\nThe University of Bonn has 32,500 students, and 4,000 of these are international students. Each year about 3,000 undergraduate students graduate. The university also confers about 800 Ph.D.s and about 60 habilitations. More than 90 programs in all fields are offered. Strong fields as identified by the university are mathematics, physics, law, economics, neuroscience, medical genetics, chemical biology, agriculture, Asian and Oriental studies and Philosophy and Ethics. The university has more than 550 professors, an additional academic staff of 3,900 and an administrative staff of over 1,700. The annual budget was more than 570 million euros in 2016.\n\nFrom the foundation in 1818 to 1928 the University of Bonn had five faculties, that is, the Faculty of Catholic Theology, the Faculty of Protestant Theology, the Faculty of Law and the Faculty of Arts and Science. In 1928, the Faculty of Law and the Department of Economics, that until then was part of the Faculty of Arts and Science, merged into the new Faculty of Law and Economics. In 1934 the until then independent Agricultural University Bonn-Poppelsdorf (German: \"Landwirtschaftliche Hochschule Bonn-Poppelsdorf\") was merged into the University of Bonn as the Faculty of Agricultural Science. In 1936, the science departments were separated from the Faculty of Arts and Science. Today the university is divided into seven faculties:\n\n\nThe Franz Joseph Dölger-Institute studies the late antiquity and in particular the confrontation and interaction of Christians, Jews and Pagans in the late antiquity. The institute edits the \"Reallexikon für Antike und Christentum\", a German language encyclopedia treating the history of early Christians in the late antiquity.\nThe institute is named after the church historian Franz Joseph Dölger who was a professor of theology at the university from 1929 to 1940.\n\nThe Research Institute for Discrete Mathematics focuses on discrete mathematics and its applications, in particular combinatorial optimization and the design of computer chips. The institute cooperates with IBM and Magma Design Automation. Researchers of the institute optimized the chess computer IBM Deep Blue.\n\nThe Bethe Center for Theoretical Physics \"is a joint enterprise of theoretical physicists and mathematicians at various institutes of or connected with the University of Bonn. In the spirit of Hans Bethe it fosters research activities over a wide range of theoretical and mathematical physics.\" Activities of the Bethe Center include short and long term visitors program, workshops on dedicated research topics, regular Bethe Seminar Series, lectures and seminars for graduate students.\n\nThe German Reference Center for Ethics in the Life Sciences (German: \"Deutsches Referenzzentrum für Ethik in den Biowissenschaften\") was founded in 1999 and is modeled after the \"National Reference Center for Bioethics Literature\" at Georgetown University. The center provides access to scientific information to academics and professionals in the fields of life science and is the only of its kind in Germany.\nAfter the German Government's decision in 1991 to move the capital of Germany from Bonn to Berlin, the city of Bonn received generous compensation from the Federal Government. This led to the foundation of three research institutes in 1995, of which two are affiliated with the university:\n\n\n\n\nThe Institute for the Study of Labor (German: \"Forschungsinstitut zur Zukunft der Arbeit\") is a private research institute that is funded by Deutsche Post. The institute concentrates on research on labor economics, but is also offering policy advise on labor market issues. The institute also awards the annual \"IZA Prize in Labor Economics\". The department of economics of the University of Bonn and the institute closely cooperate.\n\nThe Max Planck Institute for Mathematics (German: \"Max Planck-Institut für Mathematik\") is part of the \"Max-Planck-Gesellschaft\", a network of scientific research institutes in Germany. The institute was founded in 1980 by Friedrich Hirzebruch.\n\nThe Max Planck Institute for Radio Astronomy (German: \"Max-Planck-Institut für Radioastronomie\") was founded in 1966 as an institute of the Max-Planck-Gesellschaft. It operates the radio telescope in Effelsberg.\n\nThe Max Planck Institute for Research on Collective Goods (German: \"Max-Planck-Institut zur Erforschung von Gemeinschaftsgütern\") started as a research group in 1997 and was founded as an institute of the Max-Planck-Gesellschaft in 2003. The institute studies collective goods from a legal and economic perspective.\n\nThe Center for Economics and Neuroscience founded in 2009 by Christian Elger, Gottfried Wilhelm Leibniz Prize winner Armin Falk, Martin Reuter and Bernd Weber, provides an international platform for interdisciplinary work in neuroeconomics. It includes the Laboratory for Experimental Economics that can carry out computer-based behavioral experiments with up to 24 participants simultaneously, two magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scanners for interactive behavioral experiments and functional imaging, as well as a biomolecular laboratory for genotyping different polymorphisms.\n\nUniversity of Bonn researchers made fundamental contributions in the sciences and the humanities. In physics researchers developed the quadrupole ion trap and the Geissler tube, discovered radio waves, were instrumental in describing cathode rays and developed the variable star designation. In chemistry researchers made significant contributions to the understanding of alicyclic compounds and Benzene. In material science researchers have been instrumental in describing the lotus effect. In mathematics University of Bonn faculty made fundamental contributions to modern topology and algebraic geometry. The Hirzebruch–Riemann–Roch theorem, Lipschitz continuity, the Petri net, the Schönhage–Strassen algorithm, Faltings's theorem and the Toeplitz matrix are all named after University of Bonn mathematicians. University of Bonn economists made fundamental contributions to game theory and experimental economics. Famous thinkers that were faculty at the University of Bonn include the poet August Wilhelm Schlegel, the historian Barthold Georg Niebuhr, the theologians Karl Barth and Joseph Ratzinger and the poet Ernst Moritz Arndt.\n\nThe university has nine collaborative research centres and five research units funded by the German Science Foundation and attracts more than 75 million Euros in external research funding annually.\n\nThe Excellence Initiative of the German government in 2006 resulted in the foundation of the Hausdorff Center for Mathematics as one of the seventeen national \"Clusters of Excellence\" that were part of the initiative and the expansion of the already existing Bonn Graduate School of Economics (BGSE).\nThe \"Excellence Initiative\" also resulted in the founding of the Bonn-Cologne Graduate School of Physics and Astronomy (an honors Masters and PhD program, jointly with the University of Cologne). Bethe Center for Theoretical Physics was founded in the November 2008, to foster closer interaction between mathematicians and theoretical physicists at Bonn. The center also arranges for regular visitors and seminars (on topics including String theory, Nuclear physics, Condensed matter etc.).\n\nAccording to the 2015 Academic Ranking of World Universities compiled by researchers of the Shanghai Jiao Tong University the University Bonn was ranked 97th internationally.\n\nIn the 2015/16 Times Higher Education World University Rankings, the university placed 94th.\n\nTo date, seven Nobel prizes and three Fields Medals have been awarded to faculty and alumni of the Rheinische Friedrich-Wilhelms-Universität Bonn:\n\n\nAmong its notable alumni and faculty are Pope Benedict XVI, Karl Marx, Joseph Goebbels, Heinrich Heine, Heinrich Hertz, Maria von Linden, Friedrich Hirzebruch, Friedrich Nietzsche, Friedrich August Kekulé von Stradonitz, Joseph Schumpeter, Konrad Adenauer, Max Ernst, Constantin Carathéodory, Karl Weierstrass, Mehmet Celal Bey, Karl Barth, Wolfgang Kaleck, Johannes Sobotta, Margaret Altmann, Hans Riegel, Samson Raphael Hirsch and Sebastian Thrun.\n\n\n"}
