{"id": "20862082", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20862082", "title": "Abortion in Panama", "text": "Abortion in Panama\n\nAbortion in Panama is illegal except in instances that the pregnancy is life-threatening or the health of the woman is at risk, or if the pregnancy is the result of rape or incest.\n\nA penal code was set in place on September 22, 1982, which penalized illegal abortions. This code is still active today.\n\nIn 2005, a poll was conducted with a simple questionnaire. One of the questions asked, \"Do you agree or disagree with abortion?\" 89.4% of those that answered were against abortions. According to the CIA, based upon the population as a whole, 85% of Panamanians are against abortion. Approximately four-fifths of Panama's population practices Roman Catholicism, which has as its official stance that abortion is murder.\n\nIn Panama, abortion is illegal with the exception of two circumstances: if the mother's life is endangered by the pregnancy, or if she is the victim of rape or incest.\n\nThe punishment for a woman who has an illegal abortion is one to three years in prison. The punishment for a doctor or other person who performs the procedure with the woman's consent is 3 to 6 years in prison. If the procedure is done without the woman's consent, the punishment is 5 to 10 years in prison. If the woman dies as a result of the abortion, the punishment for the abortionist is 5–10 years in prison. If the woman's husband is found guilty of performing the abortion, the penalties are increased by one sixth.\n\nThe only abortions allowed to be performed are done by doctors in government-run hospitals.\n\nCondoms, tubal ligation, and some intrauterine devices (IUDs) are available at no cost to a woman. Other forms of contraception that require a fee, such as other IUDs and chemical drugs (like the Depo shot), are available, but the woman does not need to get a prescription to obtain them.\n\nIn 1965, the Asociación Panameña para el Planeamiento de la Familia, or (APLAFA), was founded to help women control the size of their families. A private family planning group, APLAFA has gone to great lengths not just to reduce the rate of teen pregnancy, but also to aid pregnant women with pre- and post-natal care for their unwanted pregnancies. The Panamanian government has also played a constructive role in the family planning movement. It offers services which teach couples about natural birth control methods (such as the ovulation method, the symptothermal method, and the rhythm method), as well as modern methods, which many know as \"the pill\", shots, patches, sterilization, and others.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14425007", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14425007", "title": "Aidchild", "text": "Aidchild\n\nAidchild, a not-for-profit organization incorporated in both Uganda and the United States, was established in 2000 as a hospice center for orphans living with AIDS who did not have the care of extended family members. In 2002, it became the first pediatric facility in Uganda to provide free anti-retroviral drugs to children. Today, more than 3,000 children have received care and treatment through Aidchild's inpatient and outpatient services, including a laboratory, two clinics, homes and academies in Masaka and Mpigi, Uganda.\n\nAidchild is supported by a mix of government and private donors and income-generating activities.\n\nAidchild was founded by Nathaniel Dunigan. \nDunigan first visited Uganda when he was Deputy Director of the Office of the Governor in Tucson, Arizona. A one-month assignment as a volunteer HIV-prevention educator had taken him to Africa where he met many children who were suffering and dying. On his return to the US, he resolved to make a difference, and completed a feasibility study for his Aidchild concept. At the age of 26, he resigned from his job, sold his car and belongings, and moved to Uganda. He had an initial budget of just $3,500. Two years later, Aidchild was chosen by the Ugandan and American governments as a model of pediatric HIV/AIDS care for the entire continent of Africa. A second center was created just after that, as was a treatment laboratory that has served the needs of more than 3,000 children and adults living with AIDS.\n\nAidchild operates the Equation Gallery, an art gallery and café on the Equator line in Uganda; Ten Tables, a restaurant and screening room in Masaka, and Aidchild's Terrace Club, a rooftop barbecue venue and boutique hostel. International travel guides have called the businesses the very best in the whole of Eastern and Central Africa. Clients include international celebrities, Ambassadors, and UN personnel. Lonely Planet calls Aidchild's Equation Café “first class,” and Oscar winner Emma Thompson says it is “possibly the best shop on the planet”. The \"Eye\" magazine named Aidchild’s restaurant the best in the nation in 2008.\n\nThe organization earns 70% of its own budget from these businesses, and is 100% administratively self-sustained thanks to a Ugandan management team.\n\nDr. Nathaniel Dunigan was raised on the Navajo reservation in the southwestern United States.\n\nDunigan has testified before the United States Congress in Washington, DC as an expert witness in the identification of best practices of care for orphans living with AIDS, and other vulnerable children in Africa. In 2004, Dunigan was nominated for the World of Children Award. He is the author of \"We Are Not Mahogany: Three stories about the male African life.\" \n\nAfter living in rural Uganda for nine years, Dunigan completed a master's degree in education at the Harvard Graduate School of Education, specializing in Human Development and Psychology, and a PhD in Leadership and Education at the University of San Diego’s School of Leadership and Education Sciences (SOLES) where he was the Dammeyer Fellow. He was also a Reynolds Fellow in Social Entrepreneurship at the Harvard Kennedy School's Center for Public Leadership, and winner of the 2010 Harvard HDP Marshal Award.\n\nDunigan now divides his time between Uganda and Florida in his role as Chief Executive Officer of Aidchild.\n\nDunigan has personally adopted more than 100 children in Uganda. He and the Ugandan staff continue to receive new children.\n"}
{"id": "1568000", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1568000", "title": "Angelica sinensis", "text": "Angelica sinensis\n\nAngelica sinensis, commonly known as dong quai or \"female ginseng\" is a herb from the family Apiaceae, indigenous to China. \"Angelica sinensis\" grows in cool high altitude mountains in China, Japan, and Korea. The yellowish brown root of the plant is harvested in fall and is a well-known Chinese medicine used over thousands of years.\n\nThe dried root of \"A. sinensis\" is commonly known as Chinese angelica () and is widely used in Chinese traditional medicine for women's health, cardiovascular conditions, osteoarthrosis, inflammation, headache, infections, mild anemia, fatigue and high blood pressure. The dong quai (當歸) means that a husband shall return to his wife, which is implicitly said to help women's sexual health.\n\n\"Dong quai\" is used for menopause vasomotor symptoms such as hot flashes. However, a randomized, double blind, placebo-controlled clinical trial showed that \"dong quai\" was no more effective than placebo.\n\nPotential anti-osteoporotic effects of \"dong quai\" independent of any estrogen mechanism were evaluated in rat models which showed that the extract of \"A. sinensis\" may prevent bone loss. However, more high quality human evidence is needed to confirm same anti-osteoporotic effects of \"dong quai\" in humans.\n\n\"Dong quai\" contains a chemical compound called butylidenephthalide which has antispasmodic activity \"in vitro\" and might relieve dysmenorrhoea muscle cramps by relaxing the uterus muscle. However, this claim lacks evidence of effectiveness in human clinical trials.\n\nIn an animal study, \"Dong quai\" also induced hair growth via the inhibition of apoptosis signaling.\n\nOverall, the U.S. National Library of Medicine states that more evidence is needed to rate the effectiveness of \"dong quai\" for most uses.\n\nThere is evidence that \"A. sinensis\" may affect the muscles of the uterus. Women who are pregnant or planning on becoming pregnant should not use \"A. sinensis\", because it may induce a miscarriage. Taking \"A. sinensis\" can cause skin to become extra sensitive to the sun, leading to a greater risk for skin cancer. One case of gynaecomastia has been reported following consumption of \"dong quai\" root powder pills. Large and prolonged doses of the plant is not advised as it contains compounds that are considered carcinogenic.\n\n\"A. sinensis\" may increase the anticoagulant effects of the drug warfarin (as it contains coumarins) and consequently increase the risk of bleeding.\n\nDue to the antiplatelet and anticoagulant effects of \"A. sinensis\", it should be taken with caution with herbs or supplements (such as ginkgo, garlic, and ginger) that may slow blood clotting to reduce the possible risk of bleeding and bruising.\n\nThe plant's chemical constituents include phytosterols, polysaccharides, ligustilit, b-butyl phtalit, cnidilit, isoenidilit, p-cymen, ferulate, and flavonoids. When isolated from the plant, one of the chemicals, angelica polysaccharide sulfate, has \"in vitro\" antioxidant activity.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15768823", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15768823", "title": "Ardleigh Reservoir", "text": "Ardleigh Reservoir\n\nArdleigh Reservoir is a lake near Colchester in Essex constructed in the valley of the Salary Brook. It supplies water both to Anglian Water and to Veolia Water East. The lake is also used for recreational activities including sailing and angling. Both game and coarse fish are present including pike and zander.\n\nArdleigh Reservoir is also home to the University of Essex Rowing Club.\n"}
{"id": "45019121", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45019121", "title": "Arthur Aron", "text": "Arthur Aron\n\nArthur Aron (born July 2, 1945) is a professor of psychology at the State University of New York at Stony Brook. He is best known for his work on intimacy in interpersonal relationships, and development of the self-expansion model of motivation in close relationships.\n\nArthur Aron received a bachelor's degree in psychology and philosophy in 1967 and a master's degree in social psychology in 1968, both from the University of California at Berkeley. He earned a PhD in social psychology from the University of Toronto in 1970.\n\nAron's work focuses on the role, creation, and maintenance of friendship and intimacy in interpersonal relationships. He developed the self-expansion model of close relationships; it posits that one of the motivations humans have for forming close relationships is self-expansion, i.e., \"expansion of the self\", or personal growth and development.\n\nAron is married to psychologist Elaine Aron.\n\n"}
{"id": "26322858", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26322858", "title": "Avon Longitudinal Study of Parents and Children", "text": "Avon Longitudinal Study of Parents and Children\n\nThe Avon Longitudinal Study of Parents and Children (ALSPAC), also known as Children of the 90s and formerly the Avon Longitudinal Study of Pregnancy and Childhood, is a cohort study of children born in the former county of Avon, England during 1991 and 1992. It is used by researchers in health, education and other social science disciplines.\n\nThe study is hosted at the University of Bristol and was initially led by Jean Golding and is now directed by George Davey Smith. The initial recruits were 15,247 pregnant women with estimated dates of delivery between April 1991 and December 1992. Since then the fathers, siblings and children of the participants have also begun to be studied.\n\nIt is one of a family of similar studies that were set up at around the same time in six countries across Europe, known as the European Longitudinal Study of Pregnancy and Childhood (ELSPAC). ELSPAC included studies in Czechoslovakia and the Isle of Man, in addition to ALSPAC.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4174515", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4174515", "title": "Borromean clinic", "text": "Borromean clinic\n\nThe Borromean clinic is a model of psychoanalytic practice advanced in the late work of Jacques Lacan. It takes its name from the Borromean knot.\n"}
{"id": "51606", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51606", "title": "Causes of mental disorders", "text": "Causes of mental disorders\n\nA mental disorder is \"a clinically significant behavioral or psychological syndrome or psychological pattern that occurs in an individual and that is associated with present disability or with a significantly increased risk of suffering, death, pain, disability, or an important loss of freedom.\"\n\nThe causes of mental disorders are regarded as complex and varying depending on the particular disorder and the individual. Although the causes of most mental disorders are not fully understood, researchers have identified a variety of biological, psychological, and environmental factors that can contribute to the development or progression of mental disorders. Most mental disorders are a result of a combination of several different factors rather than just a single factor.\n\nRisk factors for mental illness include, psychological trauma, adverse childhood environments, genetic predisposition and personality traits. Correlations of mental disorders with drug use include almost all psychoactive substances, e.g., cannabis, alcohol and caffeine.\n\nParticular mental illnesses have particular risk factors, for instance including unequal parental treatment, adverse life events and drug use in depression, migration and discrimination, childhood trauma, bereavement or separation in families, and cannabis use in schizophrenia and psychosis, and parenting factors, child abuse, family history (e.g. of anxiety), and temperament and attitudes (e.g. pessimism) in anxiety. Many psychiatric disorders include problems with impulse and other emotional control.\n\nIn February 2013 a study found common genetic links between five major psychiatric disorders: autism, ADHD, bipolar disorder, major depressive disorder, and schizophrenia. Abnormal functioning of neurotransmitter systems has been implicated in several mental disorders, including serotonin, norepinephrine, dopamine and glutamate systems. Differences have also been found in the size or activity of certain brain regions in some cases. Psychological mechanisms have also been implicated, such as cognitive (e.g. reasoning) biases, emotional influences, personality dynamics, temperament and coping style. Studies have indicated that variation in genes can play an important role in the development of mental disorders, although the reliable identification of connections between specific genes and specific categories of disorder has proven more difficult. Environmental events surrounding pregnancy and birth have also been implicated. Traumatic brain injury may increase the risk of developing certain mental disorders. There have been some tentative inconsistent links found to certain viral infections, to substance misuse, and to general physical health.\n\nSocial influences have been found to be important, including abuse, neglect, bullying, social stress, traumatic events and other negative or overwhelming life experiences. The specific risks and pathways to particular disorders are less clear, however. Aspects of the wider community have also been implicated, including employment problems, socioeconomic inequality, lack of social cohesion, problems linked to migration, and features of particular societies and cultures.\n\nThere are a number of theories or models seeking to explain the causes (etiology) of mental disorders. These theories may differ in regards to how they explain the cause of the disorder, how they treat the disorder, and their basic classification of mental disorders. There may also be differences in philosophy of mind regarding whether, or how, the mind is considered separately from the brain.\n\nDuring most of the 20th century, mental illness was believed to be caused by problematic relationships between children and their parents. This view was held well into the late 1990s, in which people still believed this child-parent relationship was a large determinant of severe mental illness, such as depression and schizophrenia. Today, the belief is held that the child-parent relationship is of small importance in terms of causing mental illness compared to biological and genetic factors. So, the perceived causes of mental illness have changed over time and will most likely continue to alter while more research is done in this area.\n\nOutside the West, community approaches remain a focus.\n\nAn overall distinction is also commonly made between a \"medical model\" (also known as a biomedical or disease model) and a \"social model\" (also known as an empowerment or recovery model) of mental disorder and disability, with the former focusing on hypothesized disease processes and symptoms, and the latter focusing on hypothesized social constructionism and social contexts.\n\nBiological psychiatry has tended to follow a biomedical model focused on organic or \"hardware\" pathology of the brain, where many mental disorders are conceptualized as disorders of brain circuits likely caused by developmental processes shaped by a complex interplay of genetics and experience.\n\nThe primary model of contemporary mainstream Western psychiatry is the biopsychosocial model (BPS), which merges biological, psychological and social factors. For instance one view is that genetics accounts for 40% of a person's susceptibility to mental disorders while psychological and environmental factors account for the other 60%. It may be commonly neglected or misapplied in practice due to being too broad or relativistic, however.\n\nThe most common view is that disorders tend to result from genetic dispositions and environmental stressors, combining to cause patterns of distress or dysfunction or, more sharply, trigger disorders (Diathesis-stress model). A practical mixture of models may often be used to explain particular issues and disorders, although there may be difficulty defining boundaries for indistinct psychiatric syndromes.\n\nPsychoanalytic theories focus on unresolved internal and relational conflicts. These theories have been posited as overall explanations of mental disorder, although today most psychoanalytic groups are said to adhere to the biopsychosocial model and to accept an eclectic mix of subtypes of psychoanalysis. The psychoanalytic theory was originated by Sigmund Freud. This theory focuses on the impact of unconscious forces on human behavior. According to Freud, the personality is made up of three parts: the id, ego, and superego. The id operates under the pleasure principle, the ego operates under the reality principle, and the superego is the \"conscience\" and incorporates what is and is not socially acceptable into a person's value system. Also, according to the psychoanalytic theory, there are five stages of psycho-sexual development that everyone goes through: the oral stage, anal stage, phallic stage, latency stage, and genital stage. Mental disorders can be caused by an individual receiving too little or too much gratification in one of the psycho-sexual developmental stages. When this happens, the individual is said to be fixated in that developmental stage.\n\nAttachment theory is a kind of evolutionary-psychological approach sometimes applied in the context for mental disorders, which focuses on the role of early caregiver-child relationships, responses to danger, and the search for a satisfying reproductive relationship in adulthood. According to this theory, the more secure a child's attachment is to a nurturing adult, the more likely that child will maintain healthy relationships with others in their life. As found by the Strange Situation experiment run by Mary Ainsworth based on the formulations of John Bowlby, there are four main patterns of attachment: secure attachment, avoidant attachment, disorganized attachment and ambivalent attachment. These attachment patterns are found cross-culturally. Later research found a fourth pattern of attachment known as disorganized disoriented attachment. Secure attachments reflect trust in the child-caretaker relationship while insecure attachment reflects mistrust. The security of attachment in a child affects the child's emotional, cognitive, and social competence later in life.\n\nEvolutionary psychology (or more specifically evolutionary psychopathology or psychiatry) has also been proposed as an overall theory, positing that many mental disorders involve the dysfunctional operation of mental modules adapted to ancestral physical or social environments but not necessarily to modern ones. Other theories suggest that mental illness could have evolutionary advantages for the species, including in enhancing creativity. Some related behavioral abnormalities have been found in non-human great apes. Evolutionary psychology applies Darwinian principles to human behavior by saying that human minds are products of natural selection and have specific functions. Humans strive to carry on their genetic legacy through their offspring. This theory identifies the environment as having a great effect on a person's mental development.\n\nPsychiatrists may favour biomedical models because they believe such models make their discipline seem more esteemed. Similarly, families of mentally ill people tend to favour biomedical models because to do so gives less self-blame. If patients are seen by a more ethnically similar doctor, they are more likely to adopt a non-biomedical model.\n\nBiological factors consist of anything physical that can cause adverse effects on a person's mental health. This includes genetics, prenatal damage, infections, exposure to toxins, brain defects or injuries, and substance abuse. Many professionals believe that the sole cause of mental disorders is based upon the biology of the brain and the nervous system.\n\n\"Mind\" mentions genetic factors, long-term physical health conditions, and head injuries or epilepsy (affecting behaviour and mood) as factors that may possibly trigger an episode of mental illness.\n\nFamily-linkage and twin studies have indicated that genetic factors often play an important role in the development of mental disorders. The reliable identification of specific genetic susceptibility to particular disorders, through linkage or association studies, has proven difficult. This has been reported to be likely due to the complexity of interactions between genes, environmental events, and early development or to the need for new research strategies. The heritability of behavioral traits associated with mental disorder may be greater in permissive than in restrictive environments, and susceptibility genes probably work through both \"within-the-skin\" (physiological) pathways and \"outside-the-skin\" (behavioral and social) pathways. Investigations increasingly focus on links between genes and endophenotypes—more specific traits (including neurophysiological, biochemical, endocrinological, neuroanatomical, cognitive, or neuropsychological)—rather than disease categories. With regard to a prominent mental disorder, schizophrenia, for a long time consensus among scientists was that certain alleles (forms of genes) were responsible for schizophrenia, but some research has indicated only multiple, rare mutations thought to alter neurodevelopmental pathways that can ultimately contribute to schizophrenia; virtually every rare structural mutation was different in each individual.\n\nResearch has shown that many conditions are polygenic meaning there are multiple defective genes rather than only one that are responsible for a disorder. Schizophrenia and Alzheimer's are both examples of hereditary mental disorders.\n\nThe increasing understanding of brain plasticity (neuroplasticity) raises questions of whether some brain differences may be caused by mental illnesses, rather than pre-existing and causing them.\n\nAny damage that occurs to a fetus while still in its mother's womb is considered prenatal damage. If the pregnant mother uses drugs or alcohol or is exposed to illnesses or infections then mental disorders can develop in the fetus. According to research, certain conditions, such as autism result from a disruption of early fetal brain progression.\n\nEnvironmental events surrounding pregnancy and birth have been linked to an increased development of mental illness in the offspring. This includes maternal exposure to serious psychological stress or trauma, conditions of famine, obstetric birth complications, infections, and gestational exposure to alcohol or cocaine. Such factors have been hypothesized to affect specific areas of neurodevelopment within the general developmental context and to restrict neuroplasticity.\n\nA number of psychiatric disorders have often been tentatively linked with microbial pathogens, particularly viruses; however while there have been some suggestions of links from animal studies, and some inconsistent evidence for infectious and immune mechanisms (including prenatally) in some human disorders, infectious disease models in psychiatry are reported to have not yet shown significant promise except in isolated cases.\n\nThere have been some inconsistent findings of links between infection by the parasite Toxoplasma gondii and human mental disorders such as schizophrenia, with the direction of causality unclear. A number of diseases of the white matter can cause symptoms of mental disorder.\n\nPoorer general health has been found among individuals with severe mental illnesses, thought to be due to direct and indirect factors including diet, bacterial infections, substance use, exercise levels, effects of medications, socioeconomic disadvantages, lowered help-seeking or treatment adherence, or poorer healthcare provision. Some chronic general medical conditions have been linked to some aspects of mental disorder, such as AIDS-related psychosis.\n\nThe current research on Lyme's disease caused by a deer tick, and related toxins, is expanding the link between bacterial infections and mental illness.\n\nResearch shows that infections and exposure to toxins such as HIV and streptococcus cause dementia and OCD respectively. The infections or toxins trigger a change in the brain chemistry, which can develop into a mental disorder.\n\nAny damage to the brain can cause a mental disorder. The brain is the control system for the nervous system and the rest of the body. Without it the body cannot function properly.\n\nHigher rates of mood, psychotic, and substance abuse disorders have been found following traumatic brain injury (TBI). Findings on the relationship between TBI severity and prevalence of subsequent psychiatric disorders have been inconsistent, and occurrence has been linked to prior mental health problems as well as direct neurophysiological effects, in a complex interaction with personality and attitude and social influences.\n\nHead trauma is classified as either open or closed head injury. In open head injury the skull is penetrated and brain tissue is destroy in a localized area. Closed head injury is more common, the skull is not penetrated but there is an impact of the brain against the skull which can create permanent structural damage (e.g. subdural hematoma). With both types, symptoms may disappear or persist over time. It has been found that typically the longer the length of time spent unconscious and the length of post-traumatic amnesia the worse the prognosis for the individual. The cognitive residual symptoms of head trauma are associated with the type of injury (either open head injury or closed head injury)and the amount of tissue destroyed. Symptoms of closed injury head trauma tend to be the experience of intellectual deficits in abstract reasoning ability, judgement, and memory, and also marked personality changes. Symptoms of open injury head trauma tend to be the experience of classic neuropsychological syndromes like aphasia, visual-spatial disorders, and types of memory or perceptual disorders.\n\nBrain tumors are classified as either malignant and benign, and as intrinsic (directly infiltrate the parenchyma of the brain) or extrinsic (grows on the external surface of the brain and produces symptoms as a result of pressure on the brain tissue). Progressive cognitive changes associated with brain tumors may include confusion, poor comprehension, and even dementia. Symptoms tend to depend on the location of the tumor on the brain. For example, tumors on the frontal lobe tend to be associated with the symptoms of impairment of judgment, apathy, and loss of the ability to regulate/modulate behavior.\n\nFindings have indicated abnormal functioning of brainstem structures in individuals with mental disorders such as schizophrenia, and other disorders that have to do with impairments in maintaining sustained attention. Some abnormalities in the average size or shape of some regions of the brain have been found in some disorders, reflecting genes and/or experience. Studies of schizophrenia have tended to find enlarged ventricles and sometimes reduced volume of the cerebrum and hippocampus, while studies of (psychotic) bipolar disorder have sometimes found increased amygdala volume. Findings differ over whether volumetric abnormalities are risk factors or are only found alongside the course of mental health problems, possibly reflecting neurocognitive or emotional stress processes and/or medication use or substance use. Some studies have also found reduced hippocampal volumes in major depression, possibly worsening with time depressed.\n\nAbnormal levels of dopamine activity have been \"correlated\" with a number of disorders (e.g., reduced in ADHD and OCD, and increased in schizophrenia). Dysfunction in serotonin and other monoamine neurotransmitters (e.g., norepinephrine and dopamine), and their associated neural networks, are also moderately correlated with certain mental disorders, including major depression, obsessive compulsive disorder, phobias, posttraumatic stress disorder, and generalized anxiety disorder. Studies of depleted levels of monoamine neurotransmitters show an association with depression and other psychiatric disorders, but \"... it should be questioned whether 5-HT [serotonin] represents just one of the final, and not the main, factors in the neurological chain of events underlying psychopathological symptoms...\" \n\nSimplistic \"chemical imbalance\" explanations for mental disorders have never received empirical support; and most prominent psychiatrists, neuroscientists, and psychologists have not espoused such ill-defined, facile etiological theories. Instead, neurotransmitter systems have been understood in the context of the diathesis-stress or biopsychosocial models. The following 1967 quote from renowned psychiatric and neuroscience researchers exemplifies this more sophisticated understanding (in contrast to the woolly \"chemical imbalance\" notion).\n\nWhereas specific genetic factors may be of importance in the etiology of some, and possibly all, depressions, it is equally conceivable that early experiences of the infant or child may cause enduring biochemical changes, and that these may predispose some individuals to depressions in adulthood. It is not likely that changes in the metabolism of the biogenic amines alone will account for the complex phenomena of normal or pathological affect.\n\nSubstance abuse, especially long-term abuse, can cause or exacerbate many mental disorders. Alcoholism is linked to depression while abuse of amphetamines and LSD can leave a person feeling paranoid and anxious.\n\nCorrelations of mental disorders with drug use include cannabis, alcohol and caffeine. Caffeine use is correlated with anxiety and suicide. Illicit drugs have the ability to stimulate particular parts of the brain which can affect development in adolescence. Cannabis has been found to worsen depression and lessen an individual's motivation. Alcohol has the potential to damage \"white matter\" in the brain which affects thinking and memory. Alcohol has been found to be a serious problem in many countries due to many people participating in excessive drinking or binge drinking.\n\nThe term \"environment\" is very loosely defined when it comes to mental illness. Unlike biological and psychological causes, environmental causes are stressors that individuals deal with in everyday life. These stressors range from financial issues to having low self-esteem. Environmental causes are more psychologically based thus making them more closely related. Events that evoke feelings of loss or damage are most likely to cause a mental disorder to develop in an individual. Environmental factors include but are not limited a dysfunctional home life, poor relationships with others, substance abuse, not meeting social expectations, low self-esteem and poverty.\n\nMind mentions childhood abuse, trauma, violence or neglect, social isolation, loneliness or discrimination, the death of someone close, stress, homelessness or poor housing, social disadvantage, poverty or debt, unemployment, caring for a family member or friend, significant trauma as an adult, such as military combat, and being involved in a serious accident or being the victim of a violent crime as possibly triggering an episode of mental illness.\n\nRepeating generational patterns have been found to be a risk factor for mental illness.\n\nIt is reported that treatment in childhood and in adulthood, including sexual abuse, physical abuse, emotional abuse, domestic violence and bullying, has been linked to the development of mental disorders, through a complex interaction of societal, family, psychological and biological factors. Negative or stressful life events more generally have been implicated in the development of a range of disorders, including mood and anxiety disorders. The main risks appear to be from a cumulative combination of such experiences over time, although exposure to a single major trauma can sometimes lead to psychopathology, including PTSD. Resilience to such experiences varies, and a person may be resistant to some forms of experience but susceptible to others. Features associated with variations in resilience include genetic vulnerability, temperamental characteristics, cognitive set, coping patterns, and other experiences.\n\nFor bipolar disorder, stress (such as childhood adversity) is not a specific cause, but does place genetically and biologically vulnerable individuals at risk for a more severe course of illness.\n\nPoor parenting has been found to be a risk factor for depression and anxiety. Separation or bereavement in families, and childhood trauma, have been found to be risk factors for psychosis and schizophrenia.\n\nSevere psychological trauma such as abuse can wreak havoc on a person's life. Children are much more susceptible to psychological harm from traumatic events than adults. Once again, the reaction to the trauma will vary based on the person as well as the individual's age. The impact of these events is influenced by several factors: the type of event, the length of exposure the individual had to the event, and the extent to which the individual and their family/friends were personally affected by the event. Human-caused disasters, such as a tumultuous childhood affect children more than natural disasters\n\nNeglect is a type of maltreatment related to the failure to provide needed, age-appropriate care, supervision and protection. It is not to be confused with abuse, which, in this context, is defined as any action that intentionally harms or injures another person. Neglect most often happens during childhood by the parents or caretakers. Oftentimes, parents who are guilty of neglect were also neglected as children. The long-term effects of neglect are reduced physical, emotional, and mental health in a child and throughout adulthood.\n\nAdverse childhood experiences (ACEs) are various forms of maltreatment and household dysfunction experienced in childhood. The Adverse Childhood Experiences Study has shown a strong dose–response relationship between ACEs and numerous health, social, and behavioral problems throughout a person's lifespan, including suicide attempts and frequency of depressive episodes. Children's neurological development can be disrupted when they are chronically exposed to stressful events such as physical, emotional, or sexual abuse, physical or emotional neglect, witnessing violence in the household, or a parent being incarcerated or suffering from a mental illness. As a result, the child's cognitive functioning or ability to cope with negative or disruptive emotions may be impaired. Over time, the child may adopt various harmful coping strategies that can contribute to later disease and disability.\n\nRelationship issues have been consistently linked to the development of mental disorders, with continuing debate on the relative impact of the home environment or work/school and peer groups. Issues with parenting skills or parental depression or other problems may be a risk factor. Parental divorce appears to increase risk, perhaps only if there is family discord or disorganization, although a warm supportive relationship with one parent may compensate. Details of infant feeding, weaning, toilet training etc. do not appear to be importantly linked to psychopathology. Early social privation, or lack of ongoing, harmonious, secure, committed relationships, have been implicated in the development of mental disorders.\n\nSome approaches, such as certain theories of co-counseling, may see all non-neurological mental disorders as the result of the self-regulating mechanisms of the mind (which accompany the physical expression of emotions) not being allowed to operate.\n\nHow an individual interacts with others as well as the quality of relationships can greatly increase or decrease a person's quality of living. Continuous fighting with friends and family can all lead to an increased risk of developing a mental illness. A dysfunctional family may include disobedience, child neglect and/or abuse which occurs regularly. These types of families are often a product of an unhealthy co-dependent relationship on the part of the head of the household (usually to drugs).\n\nLosing a loved one, especially at an early age can have lasting effects on an individual. The individual may feel fear, guilt, anger or loneliness. This can drive a person into solitude and depression. They may turn to alcohol and drugs to cope with their feelings.\n\nDivorce is also another factor that can take a toll on both children and adults alike. Divorcees may suffer from emotional adjustment problems due to a loss of intimacy and social connections. Newer statistics show that the negative effects of divorce have been greatly exaggerated.\nThe effects of divorce in children are based on three main factors: the quality of their relationship with each of their parents before the separation, the intensity and duration of the parental conflict, and the parents' ability to focus on the needs of children in their divorce.\n\nHow individuals view themselves ultimately determines who they are, their abilities and what they can be. Having both too low of self-esteem as well as too high of one can be detrimental to an individual's mental health. A person's self-esteem plays a much larger role in their overall happiness and quality of life. Poor self-esteem whether it be too high or too low can result in aggression, violence, self-deprecating behavior, anxiety, and other mental disorders.\n\nNot fitting in with the masses can result in bullying and other types of emotional abuse. Bullying can result in depression, feelings of anger, loneliness.\n\nStudies show that there is a direct correlation between poverty and mental illness. The lower the socioeconomic status of an individual the higher the risk of mental illness. Impoverished people are actually two to three times more likely to develop mental illness than those of a higher economic class.\n\nLow levels of self-efficiency and self-worth are commonly experienced by children of disadvantaged families or those from the economic underclass. Theorists of child development have argued that persistent poverty leads to high levels of psychopathology and poor self-concepts.\n\nThis increased risk for psychiatric complications remains consistent for all individuals among the impoverished population, regardless of any in-group demographic differences that they may possess. These families must deal with economic stressors like unemployment and lack of affordable housing, which can lead to mental health disorders. A person's socioeconomic class outlines the psychosocial, environmental, behavioral, and biomedical risk factors that are associated with mental health.\n\nAccording to findings there is a strong association between poverty and substance abuse. Substance abuse only perpetuates a continuous cycle. It can make it extremely difficult for individuals to find and keep jobs. As stated earlier, both financial problems and substance abuse can cause mental illnesses to develop.\n\nMental disorders have been linked to the overarching social, economic and cultural system. Some non-Western views take this community approach.\n\nProblems in communities or cultures, including poverty, unemployment or underemployment, lack of social cohesion, and migration, have been associated with the development of mental disorders. Stresses and strains related to socioeconomic position (socioeconomic status (SES) or social class) have been linked to the occurrence of major mental disorders, with a lower or more insecure educational, occupational, economic or social position generally linked to more mental disorders. There have been mixed findings on the nature of the links and on the extent to which pre-existing personal characteristics influence the links. Both personal resources and community factors have been implicated, as well as interactions between individual-level and regional-level income levels. The causal role of different socioeconomic factors may vary by country. Socioeconomic deprivation in neighborhoods can cause worse mental health, even after accounting for genetic factors. In addition, minority ethnic groups, including first or second-generation immigrants, have been found to be at greater risk for developing mental disorders, which has been attributed to various kinds of life insecurities and disadvantages, including racism. The direction of causality is sometimes unclear, and alternative hypotheses such as the Drift Hypothesis sometimes need to be discounted.\n\nSome clinicians believe that psychological characteristics alone determine mental disorders. Others speculate that abnormal behavior can be explained by a mix of social and psychological factors. In many examples, environmental and psychological triggers complement one another resulting in emotional stress, which in turn activates a mental illness Each person is unique in how they will react to psychological stressors. What may break one person may have little to no effect on another. Psychological stressors, which can trigger mental illness, are as follows: emotional, physical or sexual abuse, loss of a significant loved one, neglect and being unable to relate to others.\n\nThe inability to relate to others is also known as emotional detachment. Emotional detachment makes it difficult for an individual to empathize with others or to share their own feelings. An emotionally detached person may try to rationalize or apply logic to a situation to which there is no logical explanation. These individuals tend to stress the importance of their independence and may be a bit neurotic. Oftentimes, the inability to relate to others stems from a traumatic event.\n\nMental characteristics of individuals, as assessed by both neurological and psychological studies, have been linked to the development and maintenance of mental disorders. This includes cognitive or neurocognitive factors, such as the way a person perceives, thinks or feels about certain things; or an individual's overall personality, temperament or coping style or the extent of protective factors or \"positive illusions\" such as optimism, personal control and a sense of meaning.\n"}
{"id": "42240167", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42240167", "title": "Charles Handfield Jones", "text": "Charles Handfield Jones\n\nCharles Handfield Jones (1819–1890) was an English physician. \nThe son of Captain Jones, R.N., he was born in Liverpool, 1 October 1819. He was one of Thomas Arnold's pupils at Rugby School, went on to Catharine Hall, Cambridge in 1837, and graduated B.A. in 1840. After study at St. George's Hospital, London, he took the degree of M.B. at Cambridge in 1843, but never proceeded to that of M.D.\n\nJones became a member of the College of Physicians of London in 1845, and was elected a fellow in 1849. He published a paper of observations on the minute structure of the liver, which led to his election as fellow of the Royal Society in 1850. In 1851 he was elected physician to St. Mary's Hospital, Paddington, and continued on the staff of there till his death.\n\nJones attained a reputation as a histologist and as a clinical observer. In the College of Physicians he was junior censor in 1863–4 and senior censor in 1886, and in 1888 a vice-president. In 1865 he delivered the Lumleian lectures on the pathology of the nervous system.\n\nResident in Green Street, Park Lane, Jones in later years, moved to Montagu Square, London. He died there of cancer of the stomach, 30 September 1890.\n\nJones published with Edward Henry Sieveking, in 1854, a \"Manual of Pathological Anatomy\", and in 1864 \"Clinical Observations on Functional Nervous Disorders\". He wrote also papers in medical journals, the \"Transactions of the Medico-Chirurgical Society of London\", and the \"Transactions of the Pathological Society\".\n\nJones married in 1851 Louisa Holt, and had two sons, who both went into the medical profession.\n\n"}
{"id": "16278918", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16278918", "title": "Contraceptive security", "text": "Contraceptive security\n\nContraceptive security (CS) is a situation in which people are able to reliably choose, obtain, and use quality contraceptives for family planning and the prevention of sexually transmitted diseases. The term refers primarily to efforts undertaken in developing countries to ensure contraceptive availability as an integral part of family planning programs.\n\nOrganizations, usually government health agencies, work to ensure clients have long-term access to a range of high quality contraceptives and other essential health supplies. A framework and tool, the Strategic Pathway to Reproductive Health Commodity Security (SPARHCS), was developed in 2004 by the US Agency for International Development (USAID) and partners to help countries identify and prioritize key commodity security issues; assess current capacity for commodity security among country or regional programs, systems and policies; and shape commodity security strategic plans. Measures taken to provide contraceptive security may include strengthening contraceptive supply chains, forming CS committees, product quality assurance, promoting supportive policy environments, and examining financing options.\n\nStrengthening commodity security requires routine monitoring of donor and government commitment, policies, stakeholder coordination, and supply chain information. Tools including the CS Indicators and the CS Index offer ways of measuring contraceptive security, and allow comparisons over time and across countries. A recent analysis of 48 countries’ CS Index scores between 2003-2012 indicates that all regions improved on measures of supply chain, financing, health and social environment, access, and utilization, with the greatest progress made in sub-Saharan Africa.\n\nSubsidized products, particularly condoms and oral contraceptives, may be provided to increase accessibility for low-income people.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39914061", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39914061", "title": "Direct acoustic cochlear implant", "text": "Direct acoustic cochlear implant\n\nA direct acoustic cochlear implant - also DACI - is an acoustic implant which converts sound in mechanical vibrations that stimulate directly the perilymph inside the cochlea. The hearing function of the external and middle ear is being taken over by a little motor of a cochlear implant, directly stimulating the cochlea. With a DACI, people with no or almost no residual hearing but with a still functioning inner ear, can again perceive speech, sounds and music.\nDACI is an official product category, as indicated by the nomenclature of GMDN.\n\nA DACI tries to provide an answer for people with hearing problems for which no solution exists today. People with some problems at the level of the cochlea can be helped with a hearing aid. A hearing aid will absorb the incoming sound from a microphone, and offer enhanced through the natural way. For larger reinforcements, this may cause problems with feedback and distortion. A hearing aid also simply provides more loudness, no more resolution. Users will view this often as, \"all sounds louder, but I understand nothing more than before.\"\nOnce a hearing aid offers no solution anymore, one can switch to a cochlear implant. A Cochlear implant captures the sound and sends it electrically, through the cochlea, to the auditory nerve. In this way, completely deaf patients can perceive sounds again.\nHowever, As soon as there are problems not only at the level of the cochlea, but also in the middle ear (the so-called conductive losses), then there are more efficient ways to get sound to the partially functioning cochlea.\nThe most obvious solution is a BAHA, which brings the sound to the cochlea via bone conduction.\nHowever, patients who have both problems with the cochlea, as with the middle ear (i.e. patients with mixed losses), none of the above solutions is ideal.\nTo this end, the direct acoustic cochlear implant was developed. A DACI brings the sound directly to the cochlea, and provides the most natural way of sound amplification.\n\nThe first DACI was implanted in Hannover. In Belgium, the first DACI was implanted at the Catholic University Hospital of Leuven. In the Netherlands, the Radboud clinic in Nijmegen was the first while in Poland it was first implanted at the Institute of Physiology and Pathology of Hearing in Warsaw.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18363151", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18363151", "title": "Disease surveillance in China", "text": "Disease surveillance in China\n\nSurveillance for communicable diseases is the main public health surveillance activity in China. Currently, the disease surveillance system in China has three major components:\n\n\nThere are 35 notifiable infectious diseases, which are divided into Classes A, B, and C. The functions of the surveillance include explaining the natural history of infectious diseases, describing the distribution of case occurrence, triggering disease-control effort, monitoring epidemic of infectious diseases during natural disasters, predicting and controlling epidemics and providing the base of policy adjustment.\n\nData collected through the disease surveillance network serve as the basis for formulating health policies and devising strategies for preventing disease. A computerized reporting system for notifiable diseases has been established that links China's 30 provinces, autonomous regions, and municipalities. Mechanisms for providing timely feedback to units that report data and for systematically assessing the quality of those data are important attributes of this system.\n\nIn 1959, a system for reporting infectious diseases was established. Data collected at the village level are reported to prevention units in township hospitals. From the prevention units, data are transmitted through county health and epidemic-prevention stations to provincial centers and then on to the Chinese Academy of Preventive Medicine. Since 1977, the Ministry of Public Health has convened annual meetings to analyze these data on the morbidity and mortality associated with infectious diseases.\n\nIn 1987, a Nationwide Antiepidemic Computer Telecommunication Network (NATCN) was established as an official information system for the National Disease Reporting System (NDRS). The Ministry of Public Health and the provincial centers of health and epidemic prevention support this network, which monitors disease epidemics at various levels within the public health system. As technical facilities of the network improve, use of the NACTN will expand into all aspects of public health surveillance.\n\nAfter receiving approval from the Ministry of Public Health in 1986, the Chinese Academy of Preventive Medicine (CAPM) began to establish a nationwide microcomputer communication network. The purpose was to link all the country's provincial centers of health and epidemic prevention in an effort to improve the system for preventing epidemics. After a year was spent establishing and modifying the system, a network that connected the capitals of 30 provinces, autonomous regions, and municipalities began operating in 1987. The primary function of the network was to collect data on the morbidity and mortality associated with reportable communicable diseases, to obtain information on outbreaks of other types of disease, and to provide monthly and annual reports to local and national health authorities.\n\nEach month, all provinces transmit county-level summaries of the numbers of cases and deaths associated with 35 notifiable communicable diseases to the Academy of Preventive Medicine. Reports are sent on the 13th to 15th day of each month via the NACTN. At the central node of NACTN, the Academy's Center of Computer Science and Health Statistics compiles and analyzes the data, provides feedback to the provinces, and creates national summaries within one week. Copies of the MMMR are distributed regularly to health authorities at various levels.\n\nEach January, all provinces provide supplementary reports to revise and update the monthly reports submitted during the previous year. Age- and occupation-specific reports of mortality and morbidity are also submitted at this time. In April, after the surveillance data have been reviewed at the national meeting on epidemic diseases, the MMAR and other analytical reports are distributed.\n\nUntil the 1980s, no public digital communications system was available in China. In establishing the nationwide communication network, modems with common analog telephone lines had to be used. Making this large communication system run successfully posed major challenges. With some of the problems in mind, the system was designed to have strong fault-tolerant redundancy - with the capability for self-correction - to overcome the myriad of problems caused by poor-quality telephone lines and cumbersome telephone exchange systems.\n\nThe NACTN was enhanced by incorporating the following functions.\n\n\n\n\nIn collaboration with the NACTN, a few provinces have established subnetworks to facilitate local communication.\n\n\nIn the period 1980-1989, the network of DSPs covered 29 provinces, autonomous regions, and municipalities that had a combined population of 10 million persons (<1% of China's population). When the network was proposed in 1978, it was not possible to obtain a population-based random sample. Because participation in the network was voluntary, the data collected were biased, even after attempts were made to adjust the sample to improve national representativeness. Persons covered by the DSPs tended to be from the upper-middle socioeconomic stratum.\n\nIn 1989, efforts were begun to select a new sample of surveillance points. We used stratified cluster random sampling to select 145 DSPs in 30 provinces, autonomous regions, and municipalities, which have a combined population structure similar to that shown in the national census. Data on individual births and deaths, as well as on infectious diseases and certain types of behaviors (e.g., tobacco smoking), are recorded. At the household level, information on socioeconomic indicators, health-care conditions, and environmental factors is collected.\n\nInformation obtained from the DSPs is compared with data obtained from the National Disease Reporting System to enable policymakers to estimate more accurately the burden of morbidity and mortality associated with infectious disease. More importantly, policy makers can evaluate information from the DSPs in relation to the economic development, cultural background, and health-care-service use by the population covered by this surveillance system.\n\nData collected at DSPs:\n\n\nEach month, data collected by the township hospitals and village prevention units are submitted to the country, which then conveys the information through the provincial centers to the Chinese Academy of Preventive Medicine. The Academy distributes monthly reports to the Ministry of Public Health, to provincial health authorities, and to all DSPs. An annual report is also published and distributed.\n\nSurveys and investigations are conducted by the DSPs to improve the quality and promote the use of data collected. These surveys and investigations are designed to generate information that can be used by policymakers. At present, the following activities are being undertaken:\n\n\nSamples of persons already monitored under existing DSPs will be used for data collection to address important and emerging public health issues. Issues to be addressed include a prospective study of the health consequences of smoking, an assessment of drinking-water quality and disease occurrence, an evaluation of the national \"Expanded Program on Immunization\", and an epidemiologic study of hepatitis. By selecting samples in this fashion, investigators can correlate data from these special studies with data routinely collected under the system of DSPs.\n\nThe following are examples of surveillance for specific infectious diseases.\n\n\nQuality control (QC) in association with data collection (DC) has been an important component of disease-surveillance activities in China.\n\n\nSurveillance data have been used to implement and evaluate public health programs.\n\n\nWhen six provinces around the Yangtze River were heavily flooded in 1991, the central government expressed serious concern about disease-prevention activities in these provinces. In response, experts were dispatched to the flooded area, and prevention guidelines were developed and distributed to the affected provinces. Simultaneously, a system for collecting daily reports of disease activity was established. Every 3 days, DSP data on infectious disease morbidity were compared with data from previous years to identify potential outbreaks. For example, rates of hepatitis during the flood were compared with rates for the comparable time periods from the preceding 2 years. Data collected from June to October 1991 indicated that infectious diseases had been controlled effectively during the flood.\n\n\nIn a study sponsored by the World Bank, data collected in DSPs in the period 1986-1989 have been used to study the epidemiologic transition in China. Mortality from leading causes of death was projected for 2010 and 2030. After risk factors were assessed and the impact of preventive programs on these chronic diseases was estimated, mortality rates were recalculated. These analyses were used to develop recommendations for program planning to the Ministry of Health.\n\n\nAfter surveillance data on morbidity from meningitis in China were reviewed by empirical analysis and Boyer's Theorem, it was predicted that morbidity from this disease would peak in 1984 or 1985. Additional analyses suggested that the vaccination program that had been conducted for several years, which provided vaccination only for children <12 months of age, would not be adequate to control the predicted upsurge in disease. Therefore, a new vaccination program was adopted that expanded coverage to all children <5 years of age in areas in which surveillance data (including serum epidemiologic data) identified a high risk of meningitis outbreaks. The results in Henan Province suggested that the intensified vaccination coverage was successful in decreasing rates of meningitis.\n\n\nAfter data from 1988 to 1989 on rates of poliomyelitis and vaccination coverage were reviewed, high-risk areas were identified. In these areas, persons received supplementary vaccination in 1989-1990. By 1991, rates of poliomyelitis had begun to fall.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27211191", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27211191", "title": "Electrodeionization", "text": "Electrodeionization\n\nElectrodeionization is a water treatment technology that utilizes electricity, ion exchange membranes and resin to deionize water and separate dissolved ions (impurities) from water. It differs from other water purification technologies in that it is done without the use of chemical treatments and is usually a polishing treatment to reverse osmosis (RO). There are also EDI units that are often referred to as continuous electrodeionization (CEDI) since the electric current regenerates the resin mass continuously. CEDI technique can achieve very high purity, with conductivity below 0.1 µS/cm. Recently, Argonne National Laboratory developed a process called Resin-Wafer Electrodeionization \n(RW-EDI), which uses a unique porous resin wafer mold made from immobilized loose ion-exchange resin beads. The resin wafer material enhances mass transfer between solid (resin bead) and liquid (feed solution) phases to achieve a high purity, especially when treating impaired or brackish water.\n\nWhen fed with low TDS feed (e.g., feed purified by RO), the product can reach very high purity levels (e.g., 18 Megohms/cm). The ion exchange resins act to retain the ions, allowing these to be transported across the ion exchange membranes. The main applications of EDI technology, such as that supplied by Ionpure, E-cell and SnowPure, are in electronics, pharmaceuticals and power generation.\n\nOne important aspect in the water treatment application is that some types of EDI needs to have feed water that is free from CO2, as well as other dissolved gasses, since these put unnecessary strain on the EDI unit and will reduce performance.\n\nAn electrode in an electrochemical cell is referred to as either an anode or a cathode, terms that were coined by Michael Faraday. The anode is defined as the electrode at which electrons leave the cell and oxidation occurs, and the cathode as the electrode at which electrons enter the cell and reduction occurs. Each electrode may become either the anode or the cathode depending on the voltage applied to the cell. A bipolar electrode is an electrode that functions as the anode of one cell and the cathode of another cell.\n\nEach cell consists of an electrode and an electrolyte with ions that undergo either oxidation or reduction. An electrolyte is a substance containing free ions that behaves as an electrically conductive medium. Because they generally consist of ions in solution, electrolytes are also known as ionic solutions, but molten electrolytes and solid electrolytes are also possible. They are sometimes referred to in abbreviated jargon as lytes.\n\nWater is passed between an anode (positive electrode) and a cathode (negative electrode). Ion-selective membranes allow the positive ions to separate from the water toward the negative electrode and the negative ions toward the positive electrode. High purity deionized water results.\n\nRW-EDI is a process that targets the desalination of impaired water or water with salt levels of 1,000 - 10,000 ppm. RW-EDI process uses a porous ion exchange resin wafer with 195 cm2 cross-section surface area. Water is fed through the wafer, while an electric current is applied to setup. In between resin wafer compartments, there are concentrate compartments, where brine flows out of the system. An anode is setup on the left side of the setup and a cathode is setup on the right side of the setup. The electric current (supplied from various energy sources) charges the ions that make up the contaminants. The positively charged ions flow toward the cathode and are rinsed out in the concentrate stream, and the negatively charged ions flow toward the anode and are rinsed out in another concentrate stream. Purified water flows out through the opposite side of the compartment. The resin-wafer technology increases the energy efficiency of the desalination process significantly, especially when testing impaired water. RO processes have an energy efficiency of 4%, whereas RW-EDI has an energy efficiency ranging from 35-65%. Argonne National Laboratory estimates that 402.83 GWh of energy can be saved a day, if this technology is implemented for the processing of wastewater from industrial plants.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39212712", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39212712", "title": "Electronic referrals", "text": "Electronic referrals\n\nE-referrals or electronic referrals or electronic consultation is an electronic platform that enables the seamless transfer of patient information from a primary to a secondary treating practitioner's client management system. E-referrals have fast become the best replacement of paper-based referrals, and hold great potential toward the ultimate goal of seamless communication and information sharing between practitioners.\n\nElectronic referrals can result in considerable benefits for service providers. Firstly at the patient level, e-referrals ensure significant improvements to follow-up care coordination by the creation of accurate and timely referrals. Medical decisions are enhanced as each provider involved has the full patient information available to them. Duplicate tests are eliminated as patient information is being shared from one provider to another. The speed of communication is improved by removing delays related to paper-based transmission, ensuring a faster response rate. Also transmission of referral information is secured, upholding Consumer privacy.\n\nBenefits can also be seen beyond the patient level, e-referrals can improve practice productivity. Documentation quality is improved by removing the use of illegible handwriting as well as poor quality faxed documentation. E-referrals create a logical and standardised referral template. Auto-population of clinical information ensures referrals are more clinically complete. There are also significant long term operational cost savings between electronic and paper based referrals.\n\nA variety of barriers exist that inhibit the electronic General practitioner referral pathway to secondary care. These include the high start-up costs such as that of hardware, software and training needed to produce, process, send and receive each electronic referral. Difficulties faced when integrating different information systems to allow technology interface. As well as a slow response due to a deep rooted resistance to change and new technologies.\n\nClinical Document Architecture (CDA) is an international standard developed by the organisation Health Level 7 International, outlining the unvarying structure and presentation for clinical documents like that of e-referrals. \nThe CDA:\n\nThe e-referral initiative has been acknowledged globally, with many countries having successfully adopted the system. Including Finland who implemented the e-referral in 1990, Denmark in 1995, Norway in 1996, Netherlands in 2001, New Zealand in 2007. and Australia in 2009.\n<nowiki>*</nowiki> EDI - Electronic Data Interchange\n<nowiki>**</nowiki> ELIN - Electronic Information Exchange\n\nFinland was the first country to implement an e-referral system, introduced in the capital city of Helsinki in 1990. The e-referral project was put in place to allow for a more cost-effective way of treating a bigger number of patients, increase productivity and to improve access to healthcare. There were two hundred general practitioner practices and one million residents originally involved in the project. It took twelve years but by 2002, a total of sixty-seven thousand e-referrals had been sent.\n\nDenmark was the second country to introduce an electronic referral system. This was done so through a nationwide MedCom project implemented in 1995 entitled \"The Danish Health Care Data Network\". This TeleMed project aimed to expand the electronic communication between health service parties, and e-referrals were a part of this. By 2004, forty-one percent of all referrals sent were electronic. Causing a “significant improvement in access to care, quality of care, efficiency and productivity of the health sector”.\n\nThe use of e-referrals began in Norway in 1996, and has been much slower than that of other countries. By January 2009, less than twenty-five percent of all referrals were sent electronically. Remarkably lower than that of Denmark or Finland.\n\nThe development of e-referrals in the Netherlands began in 2001. With one hundred GP’s initially involved, by December 2004 five thousand e-referrals had been sent.\n\nThe e-referral project was launched within New Zealand Hutt District in 2007. The project aimed to “provide complete and relevant referral information electronically and make it available to practitioners involved in the patient’s care to allow prompt and appropriate clinical decision-making.” By 2009, ninety percent of all referrals were electronic. The Hutt Valley District has been acknowledge as the leading district in electronic referrals in New Zealand by the Ministry of Health (New Zealand).\n\nMost recent to initiate an e-referral system was Australia in June 2009. Approximately thirty General practitioners from the Australian Capital Territory used the electronic system to refer to sixty outpatient service specialists. With many plans underway to increase and expand to other nearby areas of Australia \n"}
{"id": "44151429", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44151429", "title": "Gaumard Scientific", "text": "Gaumard Scientific\n\nGaumard Scientific is a Miami, Florida-based company that creates simulators for major teaching hospitals and nursing schools, medical military training and emergency medical services. The company traces its history to 1946 and has 300 employees.\n\nA World War II trauma physician who explored the use of simulators for battlefield surgery founded Gaumard Scientific and developed the company’s first product, which was a synthetic human skeleton used to replace the use of actual human skeletons in medical training programs.\n\nThe company manufactures simulators and training devices in the following categories:\n\nThe Noelle S2200 (\"Victoria\") is a full scale healthcare education simulator produced by Gaumard Scientific that simulates a mother in labor.\nThe Noelle line of simulators including the Victoria model can reproduce events seen during a full-term or premature delivery. Delivery can be programmed to mimic many situations from a normal vaginal birth to a C-section. Complications including breech presentation, shoulder dystocia, maternal bleeding or umbilical cord prolapse can also be simulated. Healthcare personnel can thus hone their skills addressing serious situations that may not occur frequently before working with real patients. \nVictoria is tetherless and contains a rechargeable battery that can operate Victoria for about 8 hours as she is moved through a continuum of care. Additionally, actual medical equipment, such as a fetal monitor, a pulse oximeter and a blood pressure monitor can be used directly on Victoria.\n"}
{"id": "8789644", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8789644", "title": "George Munro, 1st of Auchinbowie", "text": "George Munro, 1st of Auchinbowie\n\nGeorge Munro of Auchinbowie, originally of Bearcrofts was a Scottish born military officer of the late 17th century. He was the first Munro of Auchinbowie.\n\nGeorge Munro was the eldest son of Alexander Munro of Bearcrofts who himself was a descendant of the Munro of Milntown family. The Munro of Milntown family descend from a younger son of Hugh Munro, 9th Baron of Foulis (d.1425). In the published genealogies of the family Alexander Mackenzie's designation of \"of Bearcrofts\" and \"of Auchinbowie\" is different to that given by John Alexander Inglis. The line that Mackenzie designates of Auchinbowie did not come into possession of the Auchinbowie property until the second head of the family, Alexander Monro, who was the son of John Monro, who himself was a younger son of Alexander Munro of Bearcrofts, bought the property from the grandson of the George Munro who is the subject of this article.\n\nDuring the Jacobite rising of 1689, George Munro fought for the Scottish Covenanters as a Captain in the Cameronian Regiment at the Battle of Dunkeld where the Jacobites were defeated. The Battle of Dunkeld is said to have lasted four to five hours and the Cameronian regiment of 1200 men was outnumbered by a force of 5000 Jacobites. In the first hour of the battle the Colonel of the Cameronian Regiment, William Cleland, was killed and the Major was wounded so the command fell to Captain George Munro. It is said that they had to use lead stripped off the roofs of houses and melted in the ground for ammunition. The Jacobites were eventually defeated.\n\nAfter the Battle of Dunkeld, Captain George Munro was promoted to Major and was put in command of an independent company of foot in Perthshire. Later as a Major in Sir Charles Graham's Regiment of Foot he fought at the Siege of Namur in 1695.\n\nGeorge Munro married Margaret Bruce of Auchinbowie in 1693. Margarat was the second daughter of Robert Bruce of Auchinbowie. She had no brothers, and on her father's death the property fell to her elder sister Janet Bruce. However Janet's husband, Captain William Bruce, killed another gentleman in a drunken brawl and he fled from justice, leaving Janet to cope with the debts of the property, which proved too much for her. In 1702 Janet Bruce sold the property to her brother-in-law, Major George Munro, who thus became the Laird of Auchinbowie. They had the following children:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42649432", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42649432", "title": "Head pressing", "text": "Head pressing\n\nHead pressing is a veterinary condition characterized by standing close to a wall or corner face-first without moving. This condition is seen in pets such as dogs and cats, and also other animals such as cows, horses, and goats. Head pressing is usually a sign of a neurological disorder, especially of the forebrain (e.g., prosencephalon disease), or of toxicity due to liver damage, such as portosystemic shunt and hepatic encephalopathy.\n\nIt should be distinguished from bunting, which is a normal behavior found in healthy animals.\n\n\nA liver shunt is a congenital or acquired condition that may lead to toxicity and head pressing. Additional symptoms include drooling and slow maturation early in development. Older animals may suffer from liver cirrhosis.\n\nSeveral viruses that cause encephalitis or meningoencephalitis can lead to the neurological sign of head pressing, see for example Eastern equine encephalitis virus and Bovine herpesvirus 5.\n\n"}
{"id": "2950938", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2950938", "title": "Hypochondroplasia", "text": "Hypochondroplasia\n\nHypochondroplasia (HCH) is a developmental disorder caused by an autosomal dominant genetic defect in the fibroblast growth factor receptor 3 gene (\"FGFR3\") that results in a disproportionately short stature, micromelia and a head that appears large in comparison with the underdeveloped portions of the body. It is classified as short-limbed dwarfism.\n\nIndividuals affected by this disorder appear normal at birth. As the infant grows, however, their arms and legs do not develop properly, and their body becomes thicker and shorter than normal. The following are characteristics consistent with this condition:\n\nHypochondroplasia is transmitted as an autosomal dominant trait affecting the \"FGFR3\" gene on chromosome 4p16.3. There is currently no cure for this condition.\n\nThis disorder results from mutations in the proximal tyrosine kinase domain of the FGFR3 gene.This gene plays an important role in embryonic development, playing a part in regulating activities such as cell division, migration and differentiation. \n\nHypochondroplasia can result from p. Lys650Asn as well. In FGFR3, some 20 different mutations have been associated to hypochondroplasia, and it seems to have a role in skeletal dysplasia.\n\nThe diagnosis of this condition can be done via X-rays (with lack of normal distance L1 to L5), and additionally genetic testing is available to ascertain hypochondroplasia. However, the physical characteristics are one of the most important in determining the condition.\n\nTreatment of hypochondroplasia usually takes the form of orthopedic surgery and physical therapy. Genetic counseling is advised for individuals and their families. Specifically in the case of spinal stenosis, one option is laminectomy.\n\nLife expectancy for individuals with hypochondroplasia is normal; the maximum height is about 147 cm, or 4.8 ft.\n\n"}
{"id": "9393445", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9393445", "title": "Inclusion (disability rights)", "text": "Inclusion (disability rights)\n\nInclusion is a term used by people with disabilities and other disability rights advocates for the idea that all people should take action to freely accommodate people with a physical, mental, cognitive, and or developmental disability. For example providing ramps and accessible toilets in meeting facilities or providing additional intervention and resources in the education system are known as 'universal design' or efforts towards the goal of inclusion.\n\nThe concept of inclusion emphasizes universal design for policy-oriented physical accessibility issues, such as ease-of-use of physical structures and elimination of barriers to ease movement in the world, but the largest part of its purpose is on being culturally transformational. Inclusion typically promotes disability studies as an intellectual movement and stresses the need for disabled people—the inclusion-rights community usually uses the reclaimed word \"cripple\" or \"crip\" instead—to immerse themselves into mainstream culture through various modes of artistic expression. Inclusion advocates argue that melding what they term \"disability-art\" or \"dis/art\" into mainstream art makes integration of different body types unavoidable, direct, and thus positive. They argue it helps able-bodied people deal with their fears of being or becoming disabled, which, unbeknownst to the person, is usually what underlies both the feelings of \"inspiration\" and feelings of pity s/he may have when watching a disabled person moving in his or her unusual way(s), or in participating in activities that obviously draw attention to the person's condition(s). Inclusion advocates often specifically encourage disabled people who choose to subscribe to this set of ideas to take it upon themselves to involve themselves in activities that give them the widest public audience possible, such as becoming professional dancers, actors, visual artists, front-line political activists, filmmakers, orators, and similar professions.\n\nMainstreaming is allowing for a person with a disability to be a member of a \"mainstream\" environment without added difficulty by creating inclusive settings. For example, education acts such as IDEA or No Child Left Behind promotes inclusive schooling or mainstreaming for children with disabilities (such as Autism) so that they can be a part of the larger \"typical\" community.\n\nInclusion, an all-encompassing practice, ensures that people of differing abilities visibly and palpably belong to, are engaged in, and are actively connected to the goals and objectives of the whole wider society, as opposed to being labeled as \"Other\" amongst a \"typically developed\" individual.\n\nInclusivity in the United States works to create a fair environment, accepting of diversity through laws which promote the idea of mainstreaming and inclusivity. This inclusive attitude is quite divergent from how other countries treat those who are disabled. In other countries there is a prevalence of the medical model of disability focusing on the physical and/or mental therapies, medications, surgeries and assistive devices that might help to \"normalize\" or \"fix\" the disabled person so that they may have an easier time in their surrounding environment. This attitude of inclusion, which has a lot in common with the social model of disability, alleges that this entire approach is wrong and that those who have physical, sensory, intellectual, and/or development impairments are automatically put on a much more effective and fulfilling road to a good, complete, and 'full' life if they are, instead, looked at and valued by society from the outset as totally \"normal\" people who just happen to have these \"extra differences\" or are \"differently abled\". Like the social movements of feminism, anti-racism and gay rights before it, inclusion is often derided by critics from the right as naïvité, and by critics from the left as identity politics. As it looks less towards 'overcoming' and 'achieving', and more towards being and existing in the moment, inclusion by its very nature forces others in the world to possibly begin to accept those who may be different than themselves.\n\nOur society is equipped for those without disabilities. This resistance to inclusion in the United States may be that the older architecture of its more prominent cities makes structural adjustment for disabled people costly and supposedly impractical, leading indirectly to a high measure of hostility towards disabled people lest they end up feeling 'entitled' to receive such adjustments automatically and unquestionably . \n\nOthers tend to blame the attitude of Social Darwinism more generally, accusing it of corrupting the attitude of able-bodied people in the US in particular towards disabled people—often to the point that it prevents that country's culture from readily accepting disabled people in aspects and venues that are not directly legality or law-related, e.g. theater, film, dance, and sexuality. \"(See also the article Ableism.)\" \n\n\n"}
{"id": "52342325", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52342325", "title": "Institute of Water Modeling", "text": "Institute of Water Modeling\n\nInstitute of Water Modeling or IWM, is a government owned-national research institute and think tank that carries out research, planning and technology transfer related to water management projects in Bangladesh and is located in Dhaka, Bangladesh.\n\nThe Institute traces its origins to the Surface Water Simulation Modelling Programme which was founded 1986. It functioned under the Water Resources Planning Organisation. On 24 December 1996 the cabinet of Bangladesh Government decided to institutionalized the programme, which was renamed and established as Institute of Water Modeling in 1 August 2002.\n"}
{"id": "49514294", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49514294", "title": "Katherine O. Musgrave", "text": "Katherine O. Musgrave\n\nKatherine L. Ogilvie Musgrave (February 8, 1920 – June 20, 2015) was an American academic, registered dietitian, and nutritional consultant. She taught food science and nutrition at the University of Maine from 1969 to 1986, and after her official retirement continued teaching for close to three decades on the university's online continuing education website, educating thousands of students. During this time she also worked as a dietitian for three Bangor physicians, conducted nutrition workshops and corporate wellness programs across the state, and appeared on a weekly radio show speaking about healthy living.\n\nA member of the American Dietetic Association for over 70 years, she was a two-time president of the Maine Dietetic Association. She received an honorary doctorate of science from the University of Maine in 2006, and was inducted into the Maine Women's Hall of Fame in 2011.\n\nKatherine L. Ogilvie was born in Allisona, Tennessee, to Walter William Ogilvie and his wife, Kathleen Smith Ogilvie. Her mother was a Latin scholar and both her parents were college-educated. She and her three brothers grew up in a farmhouse constructed by their grandfather in the 1860s. She credited her affinity to food and cooking to her mother, who did not enjoy cooking and therefore let her practice as much as she wanted in the kitchen. After graduating high school in 1937, she attended Maryville College in Maryville, Tennessee, graduating with a bachelor of science degree in nutrition in 1941. She interned at Vanderbilt University School of Medicine the following year, becoming a registered dietitian.\n\nFollowing her internship, Musgrave joined the staff of the dietitian division of the Vanderbilt University School of Medicine. In 1945, she took up a position at the University of Alabama School of Medicine, followed by posts at Burnham Hospital in Champaign-Urbana, Illinois, and Cornell University School of Nutrition. In 1968 she earned her master's degree in nutrition from Oklahoma State University. After her husband was hired by the animal science department at the University of Maine in 1968, she began teaching food science and nutrition at the University of Maine as an assistant professor in 1969. She retired as professor emerita in 1986.\n\nFollowing her official retirement in 1986, Musgrave continued to teach and speak full-time on nutrition issues for close to three decades. She presented her FSN 101 Introduction to Food and Nutrition course on the university's online continuing education website to more than 250 students per semester, offered a nutrition course at Penobscot Valley Senior College, and appeared every Monday morning on a WZON radio show speaking about healthy living. She also conducted nutrition workshops and the nutrition segment of corporate wellness programs in Maine and neighboring states, worked as a dietitian for three Bangor physicians, and educated patients at St. Joseph Hospital in Bangor about medical nutrition therapy. \n\nMusgrave co-authored a 1984 nutrition textbook for teachers and parents. She also wrote a nutrition curriculum guide for elementary-school teachers at the behest of the Maine Department of Education, and coordinated nutrition classes reaching 2,000 teachers and school nutrition educators through the state’s Nutrition Education and Training Program. She published a total of 29 papers in professional journals and produced bulletins on subjects such as \"Food for Children, Nutrition Games, Snacking Patterns of Adolescents, and Breast Feeding\".\n\nMusgrave was an outspoken critic of the \"Fit for Life\" diet. She subjected the weekly diet plan to a computerized nutritional analysis that found the levels of Vitamin D, Vitamin B12, zinc, and calcium to be \"undesirably low\" when compared to the United States Recommended Daily Allowance for women aged 23 to 50.\n\nOn the other hand, she spoke at a hearing in support of a 2011 Maine Legislature bill to declare the whoopie pie as the official state dessert of Maine. Musgrave praised the chocolate pie for being rich in flavonoids and antioxidants. Asked to clarify her position on the sugary dessert, she said, \"In all food, moderation is the key word\". The Maine Legislature eventually approved blueberry pie as the official state dessert, and the whoopie pie as the official state treat.\n\nMusgrave was a Fellow of the American Dietetic Association, having joined the organization in 1942 and retained her membership for more than 70 years. She served as president of the Maine Dietetic Association from 1973–1974 and 2006–2007.\n\nIn 1995, Musgrave was the recipient of the Mary Ann Hartman Award from the University of Maine. She was named the 2002 Outstanding Continuing Education Faculty Member by the University Continuing Education Association, New England chapter. In 2011, she received the Medallion Award of the American Dietetic Association; that same year, she was inducted into the Maine Women's Hall of Fame.\n\nIn 1986, the Maine Nutrition Council inaugurated its Katherine O. Musgrave Award, which is awarded annually \"for outstanding work in nutrition policy, education, or research\".\n\nIn 2006, the University of Maine awarded Musgrave an honorary doctorate of science. \n\nShe married Stanley Dean Musgrave (1919–2011) in March 1944. A veteran of the Army Medical Service Corps in World War II, Musgrave pursued a teaching and research career in \"dairy and livestock reproductive physiology, nutrition, genetics, and management\" at the University of Illinois at Urbana–Champaign, Oklahoma State University, and the University of Maine. They had one son and one daughter.\n\nShe died on June 20, 2015 in Orono. She was scheduled to teach another \"Trends in Nutrition Education\" course at the Penobscot Valley Senior College in the coming fall semester.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40921798", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40921798", "title": "Lincolnshire Partnership NHS Foundation Trust", "text": "Lincolnshire Partnership NHS Foundation Trust\n\nLincolnshire Partnership NHS Foundation Trust is an NHS Foundation Trust serving Lincolnshire, England. It was established in June 2002 when social care and health services, formerly provided by Lincolnshire County Council and Lincolnshire Healthcare NHS Trust, were brought together. It was authorised as a foundation trust on 1 October 2007.\n\nThe trust established Universal Health Ltd a joint venture with Lincolnshire and District Medical Services in 2015. It took over the running of the Burton Road Surgery in Lincoln in June 2015.\n\nIt runs Long Leys Court and the Peter Hodgkinson Centre in Lincoln. Long Leys Court cares for 16 people with a learning disability, who often have complex needs. It was closed temporarily in 2015 while police investigated three serious incidents.\n\nIt was named by the Health Service Journal as one of the top hundred NHS trusts to work for in 2015. At that time it had 1886 full-time equivalent staff and a sickness absence rate of 4.6%. 62% of staff recommend it as a place for treatment and 56% recommended it as a place to work.\n\n"}
{"id": "41214581", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41214581", "title": "Medical Technology Group", "text": "Medical Technology Group\n\nThe Medical Technology Group (MTG) is a not for profit organisation in the United Kingdom comprising patient groups, research charities and medical device manufacturers. Its stated aim is to \"work together to improve patient access to effective medical technologies\". The Group launched in 2000.\n\nCurrent members of the MTG are:\n\nNine out of ten regional NHS plans are failing to pay enough attention to the role of medical technology, a report by the Medical Technology Group report found in November 2018. All 44 regional STP plans were analysed in the report ‘STPs and the use of technology’, which concluded that the NHS is risking missing out on the opportunity to benefit from the use of innovative medical technology. Seven recommendations for ensuring healthcare systems assess, procure, commission and deliver technology-based treatments effectively are set out in the report.\n\nIn November 2017, The Medical Technology Group launched its second major study, ‘Keeping Britain Working – How medical technology can help reduce the cost of ill health to the UK economy’. Building on the Work Foundation’s 2011 study, the report explores the societal and economic impact of eight technologies: hip replacements; implantable cardiac defibrillators (ICDs); insulin pumps; diagnostics, including sepsis; fibroid embolisation; pain management; wound care; and coronary angioplasty. The report concluded that £476 million in savings per year could be generated from the use of eight technologies in reduced long-term health costs and benefit payments.\nA review of all 209 Clinical Commissioning Groups (CCGs) in England - published in August 2017 - revealed wide variation in waiting times and access to medical technology for patients. The study The North-South NHS divide: how where you are - not what you need - dictates your care examined five clinical areas in NHS 18 Week Referral to Treatment and NHS Atlas of Variation data. It found that nine out of ten of the poorest performing CCGs were based in the south of England and that almost three times more patients were waiting longer than 18 weeks for treatment compared with November 2012. The report made seven recommendations for improvement including greater transparency so that patients can compare the performance of their local health service and inspections of the poorest performing CCGs by NHS England.\nIn June 2016, the Medical Technology Group published its report 'Déjà Review – what lessons can be learned from the past?'. The report identified 17 different organisations or initiatives that have been launched with the aim of promoting innovation in the NHS over the previous ten years. In Déjà Review, the MTG noted that the NHS has historically and consistently failed to apply any learnings from the previous reviews, including 2011’s much-quoted Innovation, Health and Wealth (IHW).\n\nIn 2015 the Medical Technology Group contacted every acute Trust and Clinical Commissioning Group in England to identify the level of unplanned or emergency hospital admissions for urology, diabetes and heart failure. The research found that unplanned and emergency hospital admissions account for more than a third of all hospital admissions – 5.4 million in total – and two thirds of all hospital bed days. It also found that the NHS spent £434 million in 2013/14 treating over 180,000 hospital patients with an unplanned admission for a urinary tract infection; unplanned admissions owing to diabetic complications cost over £200 million each year. Additional findings were that each NHS Trust handles on average over 100 deaths each year from congestive heart failure, but with regional differences in approach and success rates: for example 66% of presenting heart patients in the Southwest were treated in hospital compared to just 16% in the West Midlands.\n\nIn June 2015 the MTG published its review of the 2011 Innovation, Health & Wealth report by NHS Improvement & Efficiency, Innovation and Service Improvement. The Scorecard reviewed progress against the six areas identified by the NHS as those where Clinical Commissioning Groups and acute Trusts could improve patient care through high impact innovations. The report revealed a very mixed picture, with both CCGs and Trusts in some areas performing much worse than others, and some regions of the country drastically underperforming.\n\nFollowing a Freedom of Information request to all NHS Acute Trusts in England, in September 2014 the MTG published a report: Infection Prevention and Control – Combatting a problem that has not gone away that revealed that the majority of Trusts were unaware of the full scale or the operational and financial impact of five common infections: sepsis; catheter-associated urinary tract infections; catheter-related blood infections; ventilator-associated pneumonia; and norovirus. The MTG called on the Government to develop a strategy for using technology for infection prevention and control.\n\nIn November 2013, the MTG published a report into waiting times for knee and hip replacements on the National Health Service. The report, \"Hip and Knee Surgery: Combating Patient Lotteries\", reviewed ten years of government data on knee and hip replacement, and data from Freedom of Information requests to acute NHS hospital trusts in England. The report suggested that patient experiences vary significantly according to the financial calendar and where they live.\n\nIn November 2011, The Work Foundation published a report, \"Adding Value: The Economic and Societal Benefits of Medical Technology\", funded by a research grant from the MTG. The report, which was launched in the House of Commons, identified three key areas of benefits from medical technologies:\n\n\nIn 2011 the MTG and patient support group FEmISA published a report, \"The provision of and access to Uterine Artery/Fibroid\", a less invasive treatment for fibroids for women. The report, which was welcomed by the British Society of Interventional Radiologists, highlighted a lack of coherent commissioning in England, despite National Institute for Health and Care Excellence clinical guidelines recommending UFE as a first line treatment for symptomatic fibroids.\n\nIn 2010 the MTG made a Freedom of Information request to Primary Care Trusts in England on the provision of insulin pumps to patients with Type 1 diabetes. It found the average to be 3.9 per cent compared to the 12 per cent benchmark recommended by the National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence. The findings were the subject of an Early Day Motion tabled by Adrian Sanders MP on December 9, 2010.\n\nIn 2004, the MTG's report Making the Economic Case for Medical Technology suggested that increasing the provision of medical technology can \"help patients better manage their conditions\" and lead a \"longer and relatively healthy life\". It also suggested that by making greater use of technology there are cost benefits for the National Health Service. The report was the subject of an Early Day Motion tabled by Ian Gibson MP. The motion was signed by 30 Members of Parliament.\n\nThe MTG is chaired by Barbara Harpham, National Director of Heart Research UK. She has been quoted as saying that the UK lags behind other European countries in the take-up of medical technology.\n"}
{"id": "32315242", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32315242", "title": "Mental health in the Middle East", "text": "Mental health in the Middle East\n\nThe study of mental health in the Middle East is an area of research that continues to grow in its scope and content. In 1998, the World Mental Health Survey Initiative was conducted by the World Federation for Mental Health. The (WFMH) was originally created in 1948 and works in concert with the World Health Organization (WHO). The 1998 survey sought to help define and clarify mental health Issues across many societies.\n\nTo accurately evaluate and understand the mental health issues of the Middle East, one must take into account the geographic, historical, cultural, and social influences of that part of the world. While each of the many countries commonly considered part of the \"Middle East\" is unique, there is a binding ethnic fabric that should be considered. Firstly, the Middle East is the origin of many of the major world religions. Christianity, Judaism and Islam, all began in this region. Of these many religions, Islam has had the most lasting and culturally significant influence on the region, encompassing well over ninety percent (90%) of the population by some measurements. The tenets of the Islamic faith, and its strict purpose, certainly have served as both a guide and a hindrance to the practices' of mental health care providers in the Middle East. There is a conflict between ancient religious teachings and the modern day or \"Western world\" approach to the issues of mental health.\n\nMental health in the Middle East, from Pharaonic times through to the Islamic Renaissance, has a rich and complex history. During Pharaonic times, soma and psyche were terms used to define mental disorders, and such disorders were described as problems of the heart or uterus, as stated in Eber's and Kahoun's Papyri. While mystical culture predominated at that time, mental disorders were treated on a somatic basis. In the Islamic era, those with mental illness were not known to have endured any forms of torture, nor were they ostracized; this was due to the belief that possession by a good Muslim genie was possible. The first mental hospital in Europe was located in Spain, as discussed by author Paul Ghalioungui, following the Moorish invasions. Mental hospitals then expanded to other European countries. The occurrence of anxiety, schizophrenia, depression, suicide, conversion disorders, and obsessive compulsive disorders had been reported, and these disorders were treated with some success.\n\nMorality and culture most likely arose from a collective choice of communal decisions to provide an accepted structure of communal living. Geography, tradition, and the specific environment may have been most influential in these decisions. The development or evolution of a social milieu integrated with the culmination of culture. Cultural morality has provided a way of managing conflict within a societal group. Cultural morality and the required behaviors that are cooperative in nature and a cognizance of others within the group, ostracized unhealthy behaviors, and therefore encouraged emotions and actions beneficial to society. These realized constructs provided an outlet and model of motivations and accepted actions within a social group.\nIn a 1992 study, Schwartz, Roccas and Sagiv evaluated how priorities are displayed and altered by a \"social experience\", and how those priorities affect \"behavioral orientation and choices\". The study surmised that the majority of cultures prioritize some of ten particular value types: self-determination, stimulation, hedonism, achievement, power, security, conformity, tradition, benevolence, and universalism. Among these there were values that cultures prioritize to varying degrees.\n\nSchwartz used these findings in developing his theory of specific types of values, allowing varying cultures to be contrasted with one another. Data was collected from 49 countries and applied to a construct of seven value types. This was done according to the specific priority given by a society to its communal value set. Schwartz selected the seven types of values based on their compatibilities and contradictions to one another. The value types he identified were: \"conservatism vs. autonomy\", \"hierarchy vs. egalitarianism\", and \"mastery vs. harmony\". The value types were then used to examine cultures that were closely\nrelated to each other. The theory is based on cultural dimensions so that conclusions can be defined to a degree, while accounting for the entire social matrix. This theory has helped researchers to assess the cultural implications of values on regional cultures. The research also found a correlation between geographical proximity and shared cultural values. Schwartz attributed these relationships to the \"shared history\", religion, level of development, culture contact, and other factors\".\n\nZār (زار) known as possession by a spirit, is exhibited by some Middle Eastern cultures. Specific ceremonies are performed to placate the zār and relieve the symptoms of the afflicted individual. These ritualized ceremonies, organized and facilitated by a leader, include the affected individual and a person previously affected by the zār, and involve \"incense, music, and movement\". The details of the ceremony vary by region. Some leaders may recommend that the patient first seek the help of a doctor, while others believe that interventions by the doctor, such as using needles for injections, may further agitate the zār, creating more problems for the patient. Those who choose traditional treatment for zār remain in isolation for up to seven days. This syndrome has been reported in North African and Middle Eastern countries, including Ethiopia, Egypt, Iran, and Sudan. Signs and symptoms of zār may include dissociative episodes, unexpected laughing, yelling, or singing, or even patients hitting their heads against a wall. Clients may exhibit apathy and be reclusive. Those under the influence of the zār may refuse to eat or carry out activities of daily living, and may develop an extended interaction with the possessing spirit.\n\nThe \"evil eye\" is also known as ʿayn al-ḥasūd (عين الحسود)\" and \"Mal De Ojo\", and has been described by a number of sources. It is also described in Mexican culture The late Professor Alan Dundes theorized that belief in the evil eye had a Middle Eastern, Mediterranean, and Indo European pattern of distribution, and was completely unknown in the Americas, Pacific Islands, Asia, and sub-Saharan Africa until the introduction of European and possibly Moorish culture. He based his ideas upon the ancient underlying belief that water represented life and dryness represented death. Dundes suggested that evil caused by the evil eye came from its power to cause living beings to \"dry up\", specifically referring to infants, lactating mammals, and even young fruit trees. Symptoms included sudden vomiting, diarrhea, and loss of potency in men. Dundes contended that the evil eye dries up liquids, which explained its Middle Eastern and desert origins. This unique syndrome is also mentioned in the DSM-IV TR, Appendix I. The syndrome is also seen in many other Middle Eastern Countries.\n\nPost-traumatic stress syndrome (PTSD) is, unfortunately, common in the Middle East due to the myriad conflicts experienced by people in the region. Diagnostic symptoms for PTSD include recurrent experiencing of the initial traumatic event(s) through flashbacks or recurrent night sweats and nightmares. Those afflicted with post-traumatic stress syndrome often seek to avoid others as well as any stimulus similar to the traumatic occurrence. They may also exhibit increased arousal. Difficulty in falling or staying asleep, unexpected episodic fits of anger, and hypervigilance may also occur. The formal diagnostic criteria for both the DSM-IV-TR and ICD-10) indicate that symptoms last for more than one month and cause significant impairment in social, occupational, and/or other important areas of functioning. There is also some evidence that children suffering from PTSD in the Middle East may experience accelerated aging.\n\nDepression in the Middle East has been specifically studied at Namazi Hospital Shiraz, in Iran. In a 2006 study of nurses, depressive symptoms were seen in 26.9% of the individuals studied. In this cross-sectional survey, the rate of depression in 130 nurses was investigated using the 21-item Beck Depression Inventory. Data collection also involved individual interviews and follow-up by the research team.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3899544", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3899544", "title": "Messiah complex", "text": "Messiah complex\n\nA messiah complex (also known as the Christ complex or savior complex) is a state of mind in which an individual holds a belief that they are destined to become a savior. The term can also refer to a state of mind in which an individual believes that he or she is responsible for saving or assisting others.\n\nThe term \"messiah complex\" is not addressed in the \"Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (DSM)\", as it is not a clinical term nor diagnosable disorder, however, the symptoms of the disorder closely resemble those found in individuals suffering from grandiose delusions or delusions of grandeur. This form of delusional belief is most often reported in patients suffering from bipolar disorder and schizophrenia. When a messiah complex is manifested within a religious individual after a visit to Jerusalem, it may be identified as a psychosis known as Jerusalem syndrome.\n\n"}
{"id": "3408308", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3408308", "title": "Metabolic network modelling", "text": "Metabolic network modelling\n\nMetabolic network reconstruction and simulation allows for an in-depth insight into the molecular mechanisms of a particular organism. In particular, these models correlate the genome with molecular physiology. A reconstruction breaks down metabolic pathways (such as glycolysis and the citric acid cycle) into their respective reactions and enzymes, and analyzes them within the perspective of the entire network. In simplified terms, a reconstruction collects all of the relevant metabolic information of an organism and compiles it in a mathematical model. Validation and analysis of reconstructions can allow identification of key features of metabolism such as growth yield, resource distribution, network robustness, and gene essentiality. This knowledge can then be applied to create novel biotechnology.\n\nIn general, the process to build a reconstruction is as follows:\n\nA metabolic reconstruction provides a highly mathematical, structured platform on which to understand the systems biology of metabolic pathways within an organism. The integration of biochemical metabolic pathways with rapidly available, annotated genome sequences has developed what are called genome-scale metabolic models. Simply put, these models correspond metabolic genes with metabolic pathways. In general, the more information about physiology, biochemistry and genetics is available for the target organism, the better the predictive capacity of the reconstructed models. Mechanically speaking, the process of reconstructing prokaryotic and eukaryotic metabolic networks is essentially the same. Having said this, eukaryote reconstructions are typically more challenging because of the size of genomes, coverage of knowledge, and the multitude of cellular compartments. The first genome-scale metabolic model was generated in 1995 for \"Haemophilus influenzae\". The first multicellular organism, \"C. elegans\", was reconstructed in 1998. Since then, many reconstructions have been formed. For a list of reconstructions that have been converted into a model and experimentally validated, see http://sbrg.ucsd.edu/InSilicoOrganisms/OtherOrganisms.\n\nBecause the timescale for the development of reconstructions is so recent, most reconstructions have been built manually. However, now, there are quite a few resources that allow for the semi-automatic assembly of these reconstructions that are utilized due to the time and effort necessary for a reconstruction. An initial fast reconstruction can be developed automatically using resources like PathoLogic or ERGO in combination with encyclopedias like MetaCyc, and then manually updated by using resources like PathwayTools. These semi-automatic methods allow for a fast draft to be created while allowing the fine tune adjustments required once new experimental data is found. It is only in this manner that the field of metabolic reconstructions will keep up with the ever-increasing numbers of annotated genomes.\n\n\n\n\nA reconstruction is built by compiling data from the resources above. Database tools such as KEGG and BioCyc can be used in conjunction with each other to find all the metabolic genes in the organism of interest. These genes will be compared to closely related organisms that have already developed reconstructions to find homologous genes and reactions. These homologous genes and reactions are carried over from the known reconstructions to form the draft reconstruction of the organism of interest. Tools such as ERGO, Pathway Tools and Model SEED can compile data into pathways to form a network of metabolic and non-metabolic pathways. These networks are then verified and refined before being made into a mathematical simulation.\n\nThe predictive aspect of a metabolic reconstruction hinges on the ability to predict the biochemical reaction catalyzed by a protein using that protein's amino acid sequence as an input, and to infer the structure of a metabolic network based on the predicted set of reactions. A network of enzymes and metabolites is drafted to relate sequences and function. When an uncharacterized protein is found in the genome, its amino acid sequence is first compared to those of previously characterized proteins to search for homology. When a homologous protein is found, the proteins are considered to have a common ancestor and their functions are inferred as being similar. However, the quality of a reconstruction model is dependent on its ability to accurately infer phenotype directly from sequence, so this rough estimation of protein function will not be sufficient. A number of algorithms and bioinformatics resources have been developed for refinement of sequence homology-based assignments of protein functions:\n\nOnce proteins have been established, more information about the enzyme structure, reactions catalyzed, substrates and products, mechanisms, and more can be acquired from databases such as KEGG, MetaCyc and NC-IUBMB. Accurate metabolic reconstructions require additional information about the reversibility and preferred physiological direction of an enzyme-catalyzed reaction which can come from databases such as BRENDA or MetaCyc database.\n\nAn initial metabolic reconstruction of a genome is typically far from perfect due to the high variability and diversity of microorganisms. Often, metabolic pathway databases such as KEGG and MetaCyc will have \"holes\", meaning that there is a conversion from a substrate to a product (i.e., an enzymatic activity) for which there is no known protein in the genome that encodes the enzyme that facilitates the catalysis. What can also happen in semi-automatically drafted reconstructions is that some pathways are falsely predicted and don't actually occur in the predicted manner. Because of this, a systematic verification is made in order to make sure no inconsistencies are present and that all the entries listed are correct and accurate. Furthermore, previous literature can be researched in order to support any information obtained from one of the many metabolic reaction and genome databases. This provides an added level of assurance for the reconstruction that the enzyme and the reaction it catalyzes do actually occur in the organism.\n\nEnzyme promiscuity and spontaneous chemical reactions can damage metabolites. This metabolite damage, and its repair or pre-emption, create energy costs that need to be incorporated into models. It is likely that many genes of unknown function encode proteins that repair or pre-empt metabolite damage, but most genome-scale metabolic reconstructions only include a fraction of all genes.\n\nAny new reaction not present in the databases needs to be added to the reconstruction. This is an iterative process that cycles between the experimental phase and the coding phase. As new information is found about the target organism, the model will be adjusted to predict the metabolic and phenotypical output of the cell. The presence or absence of certain reactions of the metabolism will affect the amount of reactants/products that are present for other reactions within the particular pathway. This is because products in one reaction go on to become the reactants for another reaction, i.e. products of one reaction can combine with other proteins or compounds to form new proteins/compounds in the presence of different enzymes or catalysts.\n\nFrancke \"et al.\" provide an excellent example as to why the verification step of the project needs to be performed in significant detail. During a metabolic network reconstruction of \"Lactobacillus plantarum\", the model showed that succinyl-CoA was one of the reactants for a reaction that was a part of the biosynthesis of methionine. However, an understanding of the physiology of the organism would have revealed that due to an incomplete tricarboxylic acid pathway, \"Lactobacillus plantarum\" does not actually produce succinyl-CoA, and the correct reactant for that part of the reaction was acetyl-CoA.\n\nTherefore, systematic verification of the initial reconstruction will bring to light several inconsistencies that can adversely affect the final interpretation of the reconstruction, which is to accurately comprehend the molecular mechanisms of the organism. Furthermore, the simulation step also ensures that all the reactions present in the reconstruction are properly balanced. To sum up, a reconstruction that is fully accurate can lead to greater insight about understanding the functioning of the organism of interest.\n\nA metabolic network can be broken down into a stoichiometric matrix where the rows represent the compounds of the reactions, while the columns of the matrix correspond to the reactions themselves. Stoichiometry is a quantitative relationship between substrates of a chemical reaction. In order to deduce what the metabolic network suggests, recent research has centered on a few approaches, such as extreme pathways, elementary mode analysis, flux balance analysis, and a number of other constraint-based modeling methods.\n\nPrice, Reed, and Papin, from the Palsson lab, use a method of singular value decomposition (SVD) of extreme pathways in order to understand regulation of a human red blood cell metabolism. Extreme pathways are convex basis vectors that consist of steady state functions of a metabolic network. For any particular metabolic network, there is always a unique set of extreme pathways available. Furthermore, Price, Reed, and Papin, define a constraint-based approach, where through the help of constraints like mass balance and maximum reaction rates, it is possible to develop a ‘solution space’ where all the feasible options fall within. Then, using a kinetic model approach, a single solution that falls within the extreme pathway solution space can be determined. Therefore, in their study, Price, Reed, and Papin, use both constraint and kinetic approaches to understand the human red blood cell metabolism. In conclusion, using extreme pathways, the regulatory mechanisms of a metabolic network can be studied in further detail.\n\nElementary mode analysis closely matches the approach used by extreme pathways. Similar to extreme pathways, there is always a unique set of elementary modes available for a particular metabolic network. These are the smallest sub-networks that allow a metabolic reconstruction network to function in steady state. According to Stelling (2002), elementary modes can be used to understand cellular objectives for the overall metabolic network. Furthermore, elementary mode analysis takes into account stoichiometrics and thermodynamics when evaluating whether a particular metabolic route or network is feasible and likely for a set of proteins/enzymes.\n\nIn 2009, Larhlimi and Bockmayr presented a new approach called \"minimal metabolic behaviors\" for the analysis of metabolic networks. Like elementary modes or extreme pathways, these are uniquely determined by the network, and yield a complete description of the flux cone. However, the new description is much more compact. In contrast with elementary modes and extreme pathways, which use an inner description based on generating vectors of the flux cone, MMBs are using an outer description of the flux cone. This approach is based on sets of non-negativity constraints. These can be identified with irreversible reactions, and thus have a direct biochemical interpretation. One can characterize a metabolic network by MMBs and the reversible metabolic space.\n\nA different technique to simulate the metabolic network is to perform flux balance analysis. This method uses linear programming, but in contrast to elementary mode analysis and extreme pathways, only a single solution results in the end. Linear programming is usually used to obtain the maximum potential of the objective function that you are looking at, and therefore, when using flux balance analysis, a single solution is found to the optimization problem. In a flux balance analysis approach, exchange fluxes are assigned to those metabolites that enter or leave the particular network only. Those metabolites that are consumed within the network are not assigned any exchange flux value. Also, the exchange fluxes along with the enzymes can have constraints ranging from a negative to positive value (ex: -10 to 10).\n\nFurthermore, this particular approach can accurately define if the reaction stoichiometry is in line with predictions by providing fluxes for the balanced reactions. Also, flux balance analysis can highlight the most effective and efficient pathway through the network in order to achieve a particular objective function. In addition, gene knockout studies can be performed using flux balance analysis. The enzyme that correlates to the gene that needs to be removed is given a constraint value of 0. Then, the reaction that the particular enzyme catalyzes is completely removed from the analysis.\n\nIn order to perform a dynamic simulation with such a network it is necessary to construct an ordinary differential equation\nsystem that describes the rates of change in each metabolite's concentration or amount. To this end, a rate law, i.e., a kinetic equation that determines the rate of reaction based on the concentrations of all reactants is required for each reaction. Software packages that include numerical integrators, such as COPASI or SBMLsimulator, are then able to simulate the system dynamics given an initial condition. Often these rate laws contain kinetic parameters with uncertain values. In many cases it is desired to estimate these parameter values with respect to given time-series data of metabolite concentrations. The system is then supposed to reproduce the given data. For this purpose the distance between the given data set and the result of the simulation, i.e., the numerically or in few cases analytically obtained solution of the differential equation system is computed. The values of the parameters are then estimated to minimize this distance. One step further, it may be desired to estimate the mathematical structure of the differential equation system because the real rate laws are not known for the reactions within the system under study. To this end, the program SBMLsqueezer allows automatic creation of appropriate rate laws for all reactions with the network.\nSynthetic accessibility is a simple approach to network simulation whose goal is to predict which metabolic gene knockouts are lethal. The synthetic accessibility approach uses the topology of the metabolic network to calculate the sum of the minimum number of steps needed to traverse the metabolic network graph from the inputs, those metabolites available to the organism from the environment, to the outputs, metabolites needed by the organism to survive. To simulate a gene knockout, the reactions enabled by the gene are removed from the network and the synthetic accessibility metric is recalculated. An increase in the total number of steps is predicted to cause lethality. Wunderlich and Mirny showed this simple, parameter-free approach predicted knockout lethality in \"E. coli\" and \"S. cerevisiae\" as well as elementary mode analysis and flux balance analysis in a variety of media.\n\n\nReconstructions and their corresponding models allow the formulation of hypotheses about the presence of certain enzymatic activities and the production of metabolites that can be experimentally tested, complementing the primarily discovery-based approach of traditional microbial biochemistry with hypothesis-driven research. The results these experiments can uncover novel pathways and metabolic activities and decipher between discrepancies in previous experimental data. Information about the chemical reactions of metabolism and the genetic background of various metabolic properties (sequence to structure to function) can be utilized by genetic engineers to modify organisms to produce high value outputs whether those products be medically relevant like pharmaceuticals; high value chemical intermediates such as terpenoids and isoprenoids; or biotechnological outputs like biofuels.\n\nMetabolic network reconstructions and models are used to understand how an organism or parasite functions inside of the host cell. For example, if the parasite serves to compromise the immune system by lysing macrophages, then the goal of metabolic reconstruction/simulation would be to determine the metabolites that are essential to the organism's proliferation inside of macrophages. If the proliferation cycle is inhibited, then the parasite would not continue to evade the host's immune system. A reconstruction model serves as a first step to deciphering the complicated mechanisms surrounding disease. These models can also look at the minimal genes necessary for a cell to maintain virulence. The next step would be to use the predictions and postulates generated from a reconstruction model and apply it to discover novel biological functions such as drug-engineering and drug delivery techniques.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38279535", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38279535", "title": "Michael G. Santos", "text": "Michael G. Santos\n\nMichael Gerard Santos (born January 15, 1964) is an American prison consultant, author of several books about prison, a professor of criminal justice, and an advocate for criminal justice reform. Santos spent twenty-six years inside nineteen different United States federal prisons. During his decades inside federal prison, Santos committed to transforming his life, obtained an education, got married, wrote several books, blogged, and worked to prepare himself for a successful law-abiding life. Santos served more than twenty-six years of a forty-five year sentence.\n\nAfter release from prison, Santos taught a course for criminal justice students at San Francisco State University, works as a prison consultant, motivational speaker and life coach and continues to advocate for reforming America's criminal justice system.\n\nMichael Santos grew up in Lake Forest Park, a suburb of North Seattle, Washington with two sisters and had a relatively stable family life. Santos is the son of a Cuban immigrant father and a mother of Spanish descent. His parents were small business owners. While in high school, Santos received probation for receiving stolen property as part of a gambling debt owed to him, which was his only arrest and/or conviction before his conviction for distributing cocaine. Santos graduated from Shorecrest High School in 1982 and was a mediocre student. Santos played football and skied in high school.\n\nAfter graduating from high school, Santos worked for a highway construction firm that his family had operated since 1970. In 1985, Santos and a friend became involved in a cocaine transaction involving several kilograms. After this first big sale, Santos got involved in buying and selling cocaine. Although he made thousands of dollars in Seattle, he wanted more, so he moved to Miami to work with suppliers.\n\nSantos eventually relocated to Key Biscayne, South Florida in search of better prices for cocaine. His lifestyle was influenced by the movies \"Scarface\" and \"Miami Vice.\" Santos purchased cocaine from a source in Miami, a friend transported it from Miami to Seattle, and the friend from the original purchase would distribute it locally in Seattle. In June 1986, Drug Enforcement Administration Agents arrested Santos' friend in Seattle.\n\nIn 1987, at the age of 23, Santos was arrested by federal agents for leading a scheme to distribute cocaine. In exchange for his cooperation, Santos' friend received a four-year prison term, for which he served about 27 months.\n\nIn contrast, Santos on the advice of retained counsel took his case to trial. Santos' partners testified against him at his trial. Moreover, Santos testified on his own behalf in the trial stemming from the first indictment against him. Santos was found guilty on all counts. Although Santos was not initially charged with the distribution of cocaine that took place after his arrest, he made a statement to the U.S. attorney accepting full responsibility for distribution while incarcerated and admitted that he perjured himself during the trial. Santos separately agreed to plead guilty to charges of perjury and for helping others to distribute cocaine that was left over from the previous indictment.\n\nAs Santos awaited sentencing, he picked up a copy of \"Treasury of Philosophy\" by Dagobert D. Runes and learned about Socrates. Santos told Judge Jack Edward Tanner: \"I have to find a way to reconcile with society.\" Santos set three goals: to educate himself, to find a way to contribute to society, and to start building a support network of law-abiding citizens who could mentor him.\n\nJudge Tanner sentenced Santos to a 45-year sentence for \"operating a continuing criminal enterprise\". Santos was tried and convicted during Ronald Reagan's heightened War on Drugs that included creating mandatory minimum sentencing. Once he was determined to be guilty, this resulted in the federal government using Santos' sentencing to make an example to deter other criminals.\n\nMichael served his sentence in many different prisons of every security level, from high-security United States Penitentiaries to minimum-security federal prison camps across the United States. Santos began his sentence at the infamous United States Penitentiary, Atlanta. Santos also was imprisoned at Federal Correctional Institution, McKean, Federal Correctional Institution, Fairton, Federal Correctional Institution, Fort Dix, and Federal Correctional Institution, Lompoc, among others.\n\nWhen Santos arrived at the Atlanta penitentiary his then-wife divorced him. Santos' father lost his business; his parents separated. Despite such adversity Santos remained disciplined and stuck to his goals. By 1992 Santos earned a bachelor's degree from Mercer University (with a degree in human resources management). By 1995 Santos earned a master's degree from Hofstra University, and began work toward his doctorate at the University of Connecticut; however, a Bureau of Prisons warden blocked Santos from completing his studies to earn a doctorate.\n\nAfter the warden ended his education opportunities Santos shifted focus to develop programs and resources to help fellow inmates and their families. Additionally, while incarcerated Santos authored seven books and had published a number of articles, including for \"The Huffington Post\" and \"Forbes\". Since prisons did not offer access to computers, Santos in longhand manually wrote all books and articles. Santos' wife Carole would then transcribe his work into computer format. Carole also served as a liaison with publishers.\n\nWith help from his wife and family, from within prison Santos nevertheless built a significant presence on the Internet. Through the website MichaelSantos.com chronicled his long arduous journey. Moreover, the appeal of his writing resulted in Santos receiving widespread popularity. Media publications cite Santos saying his published writings are his way of contributing to society. His wife maintained his contributions to a blog. Those writings resulted in his receiving significant recognition and universities use his work in courses that teach criminal justice.\n\nThe Bureau of Prisons released Michael Santos to community confinement in August 2012, when he was 48. At that time he had served more than 25 years in federal prison, a (total of 9,135 days in federal custody). Michael remained in federal custody for another year within the confines of the halfway house. He concluded his obligation to the Bureau of Prisons after more than 26 years on August 12, 2013. \"The San Francisco Chronicle\" published an article describing Michael Santos' lengthy odyssey. Michael claimed that he could maintain a high level of discipline and energy because he kept his focus on reconciling with society and emerging with his dignity intact. The Chronicle quoted Distinguished Stanford Professor Joan Petersilia as saying that Michael was a \"Messiah\" to other prisoners.\n\nAfter his release Michael continued to work toward ending mass incarceration and toward helping others who were being prosecuted by the criminal justice system. Along with Justin Paperny of The Michael G. Santos Foundation, Michael developed programs to help people emerge from the prison experience successfully; he worked to help the formerly incarcerated transition into the labor market; and he worked to bring more awareness to social breakdowns which he believes are spawned by \"America's commitment to mass incarceration\". He is also a public speaker on overcoming adversity, using the context of his journey as evidence that anyone can become more than external circumstances. Michael has also lectured at numerous universities, including Stanford Law School, the University of San Francisco, and UC Berkeley.\n\nIn 2014, PBS's Newshour did video feature story on Santos' efforts to help empower people incarcerated in America and Santos' criticism of America's commitment to mass incarceration.\n\nIn 2015, Santos teamed with the Maine Department of Corrections to improve the outcomes of the state's prison system through programs designed by Santos.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8977671", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8977671", "title": "Michigan State Asylum", "text": "Michigan State Asylum\n\nMichigan State Asylum may refer to any number of early mental institutions in the state. Michigan became a state in 1837 and five years later accepted that the principal caring for the mentally afflicted was a state problem. In 1848 a joint resolution required an annual return from the adviser of the number of insane, deaf, dumb, and blind in the state. In that same year the legislature set aside of land for buildings, next year nearly double that amount, and in 1850, . Not until 1853 was money, $20,000, appropriated out of the general fund of the state treasury. Many hospitals/prisons have been referred to as \"Michigan State Asylum\". There were once 16 State-operated psychiatric facilities in Michigan. Between 1987 and 2003 Michigan closed three quarters of its 16 state psychiatric facilities. Here is a partial list.\n\n\nThe large hospital complex in Nankin Township called Eloise was not a Michigan State Asylum. It was founded as a poor house and farm in 1839 and grew into a large hospital complex. At one time there was a T.B. Sanitarium on the grounds which was phased out in 1923. Wayne County was the only one of Michigan's 83 counties that operated a psychiatric hospital, a general hospital, and an infirmary division all at the same place.\n\nMichigan's three remaining State-operated in-patient psychiatric facilities are:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52703649", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52703649", "title": "Military biscuit", "text": "Military biscuit\n\nThe Military Biscuit (; ; ; ;) is a food component of the Swiss army.\n\nOscar J. Kambly, the second-generation boss of the traditional swiss company \"Kambly SA\", developed the recipe for flavor-neutral pastries in 1959. It was to replace the military Zwieback known as \"Bundesziegel\" in German language (federal brick) and should be compatible with cheese or sausage as well as with chocolate. It should have a shelf life of at least three years. Since 1959, the army has distributed about a million servings of the military biscuits to the soldiers every year. The military biscuits are also popular by the civilian population of Switzerland.\n\nSome private traders sold military biscuits, which the DDPS initially wanted to prevent, because the trade with army food is forbidden. This is also noted on the packaging. Since 2010, Kambly, still a manufacturer of military biscuits, is allowed to sell these to large distributors. The packaging has to be different from the biscuits produced for the military.\n\nSince 2009, the biscuits have also been distributed together with the military chocolate in a gift box with the dedication of the Chief of the Armed Forces to the soldiers who have fulfilled their military service obligations. 25,000 such gift boxes include the recurring yearly production for a year's release for the soldiers in Switzerland.\nIn addition to the standard packaging, the Military Biscuit is also available as promotional merchandise with two pieces packed to a 9g small packaging.\n\nIngredients\n\nNutritional values per 100 grams\n\n"}
{"id": "3173242", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3173242", "title": "Murder of Sylvia Likens", "text": "Murder of Sylvia Likens\n\nThe murder of Sylvia Likens took place in Indianapolis, Indiana, United States in October 1965. The 16-year-old was held captive, abused and tortured to death over a period of three months by Gertrude Baniszewski, Baniszewski's children, and other neighborhood children. Likens' parents, who were carnival workers, had initially left her and her sister Jenny in the care of the Baniszewski family, paying Gertrude $20 a week to care for the sisters.\n\nBaniszewski, her daughter Paula, her son John, and two neighborhood youths, Coy Hubbard and Richard Hobbs, were tried and convicted of torturing and murdering Likens. The case was described by the prosecutor in Baniszewski's trial as \"the most terrible crime ever committed in the state of Indiana\".\n\nGertrude Nadine Baniszewski (; September 19, 1929 – June 16, 1990) was born in Indianapolis, Indiana to Mollie Myrtle (\"née\" Oakley) and Hugh Marcus Van Fossan Sr., both of whom were originally from Illinois and were of American and Dutch descent. Baniszewski was the third of six children. On October 5, 1939, Baniszewski witnessed her 50-year-old father's death from a sudden heart attack. Six years later, she dropped out of school to marry 18-year-old John Stephan Baniszewski (1926–2007), who was originally from Youngsville, Pennsylvania, with whom she had six children. Although John Baniszewski had a volatile temper, the two stayed together for ten more years before divorcing.\n\nBaniszewski, then 34, moved in with 22-year-old Dennis Lee Wright, who abused her. She had one child with Dennis, Dennis Lee Wright Jr. (later given the name Denny Lee Wright by his adoptive mother), but after his birth, Wright abandoned Gertrude.\n\nSylvia Marie Likens (January 3, 1949 – October 26, 1965) was the third child of carnival workers Lester Cecil Likens (1926–2013) and his wife Elizabeth Frances \"Betty\" (née Grimes, 1927–1998). She was born between two sets of fraternal twins: Diana and Danny (two years older), and Jenny and Benny (one year younger, the former disabled by polio).\n\nLikens' parents' marriage was unstable. The family moved frequently, and the parents had financial difficulties. Likens and her sister Jenny were often boarded out or forced to live with relatives, such as their grandmother, so that their schoolwork would not suffer while their parents were on the road. To earn money, Likens babysat and ironed, the same kind of work that was done by Gertrude Baniszewski. At the time of Likens' death, her favorite rock band was The Beatles.\n\nIn July 1965, Sylvia and Jenny Likens were living with their mother, Betty, in Indianapolis. During that time, Betty was arrested and jailed for shoplifting. Lester Likens, who had recently separated from his wife, arranged for his daughters to board with Gertrude Baniszewski, the mother of the girls' new friend Paula Baniszewski (aged 17) and Paula's six siblings, Stephanie (15), John (12), Marie (11), Shirley (10), James (8), and few-months-old Dennis Lee Wright Jr. During her early time with the Baniszewski family, she would sing with Baniszewski's daughter, Stephanie.\n\nAlthough the Baniszewskis were poor, Lester \"didn't pry\" into the condition of the house (as he reported at the trial), and he encouraged Baniszewski to \"straighten his daughters out.\"\n\nLester Likens agreed to pay Baniszewski $20 a week in exchange for her care of the Likens girls. Baniszewski, described by \"The Indianapolis Star\" as a \"haggard, underweight asthmatic\", was suffering from depression and the stress of several failed marriages. When the weekly payment arrived late, Baniszewski beat the Likens girls on their bare buttocks with paddles.\n\nBaniszewski soon focused her abuse exclusively on Sylvia. She accused her of stealing candy that she had bought, and humiliated her when she admitted that she once had a boyfriend. Baniszewski's daughter, Paula, who was pregnant at the time, kicked Likens in the genitals and accused her of being pregnant. Later medical examination proved that Likens was not pregnant and could not have been. Baniszewski began allowing her older children to beat Likens and repeatedly push her down stairs for entertainment. During a church function, Baniszewski force-fed Likens a hot dog overloaded with condiments. Likens vomited afterwards, which she was later forced to consume. Baniszewski also accused Likens of prostitution and delivered misogynistic sermons about the filthiness of prostitutes and women in general.\n\nLikens was later accused of spreading rumors within Arsenal Technical High School that Paula and Stephanie Baniszewski were prostitutes. This supposedly provoked Stephanie's boyfriend, Coy Hubbard, to physically attack Likens. Hubbard and his classmates soon made frequent visits to the Baniszewski residence to torment Likens, often collaborating with Bansizewski's own children and Baniszewski herself. With Baniszewski's encouragement, they routinely beat her, forced her to eat feces and drink urine, used her as a practice dummy in violent judo sessions, lacerated her, burnt her body with lit cigarettes over 100 times and severely injured her genitals. To entertain Gertrude and her teenage accomplices, Likens was forced to strip naked in the living room and insert an empty Coca-Cola bottle into her own vagina.\n\nPaula Baniszewski once beat Likens in the face with such force that she broke her own wrist. She later had to wear a cast, which she used to further beat Likens.\n\nGertrude Baniszewski later forced Jenny to hit her sister, beating her if she did not comply.\n\nMeanwhile, Raymond and Phyllis Vermillion, a middle-aged couple who moved next door, saw Gertrude to be an ideal caretaker for their two children. They visited the Baniszewski residence on two occasions, where they witnessed Paula, with Gertrude's approval, abusing Likens and boasting about it in front of them. The Vermillions refused to report the abuse to the authorities out of fear on both occasions. \n\nBaniszewski eventually forbade Likens from attending school after Likens confessed to having stolen a gym suit from the school when Baniszewski would not buy a gym suit for her. She brutally beat and whipped Sylvia and did the same for Jenny after remembering that she supposedly stole a tennis shoe. Baniszewski then switched the topic to the \"evils\" of premarital sex and brutally kicked Sylvia repeatedly in the genitals. She also burned all of her fingers with matches and further whipped her. \n\nLikens eventually became incontinent due to the severity of the torture. She was denied access to the bathroom and so was forced to wet herself. As punishment for her incontinence, Baniszewski threw her in the basement and locked her in. Throughout her captivity, Baniszewski frequently, with the assistance of her children and their friends, restrained Likens in a bathtub filled with scalding water and rubbed salt onto her burns. She was often kept naked and rarely fed. At times, Baniszewski and her twelve-year-old son John Jr. would make Likens eat her own feces, as well as urine and feces from the diaper of Gertrude Baniszewski's one-year-old son. She also made abusing Likens a pastime, charging the neighborhood children five cents to see the \"display\" of Likens' naked body and tie, beat, burn and mutilate her. Likens attempted to alert the neighbors for help by screaming and hitting the walls of the basement with a spade, ultimately to no avail.\n\nThe Likens sisters had no way to contact other family members to inform them of the abuse. Jenny, especially, struggled to do this since she was constantly threatened by Baniszewski that she would be abused and tortured next like her sister. She was also bullied by the neighborhood girls and beaten whenever she alluded to Sylvia's situation. Nonetheless, they encountered Diana, their older and married sister, at the local park. Since Diana was forbidden by her parents to make contact with the sisters due to her estrangement, she initially assumed that the punishments Sylvia and Jenny were receiving were related to this. Neither party was aware that they lived less than a mile and a half apart. Diana eventually learned that Sylvia and Jenny were staying at a strangers' home and she attempted to visit them. Upon her visit, Bansizewski told Diana, unaware of who Baniszewski was, that the Likens sisters were not allowed to see her and ordered her off her property. At one point, Diana secretly gave a starving Sylvia a sandwich. Sylvia remained silent about the matter but after Marie Baniszewski revealed it, Paula and Gertrude choked and paddled Sylvia before subjecting her to another scalding bath. Shortly thereafter, a neighbor made an anonymous report, which prompted an in-home visit by a public health nurse. The nurse entered the home and made inquiries, but had no choice but to leave without further investigation. She told Baniszewski the report was about Likens; Baniszewski replied she had kicked Likens out of her house, and that her whereabouts were unknown. The nurse had no way of knowing that the subject of her inquiry was right below her in the basement. \n\nLikens was often deprived of water. Jenny later speculated, during her court testimony, that Likens was unable to produce tears due to dehydration.\n\nOn October 22, Likens was forced by John to eat a bowl of soup with her fingers. John quickly took away the bowl when Likens attempted to eat it. Baniszewski eventually allowed her to sleep upstairs, under the condition that she learned not to wet herself. That night, Likens whispered to Jenny to give her a glass of water before falling asleep. On October 23, Baniszewski discovered that Likens had urinated herself. As punishment, Likens was forced to masturbate with an empty glass Coca-Cola bottle in front of Baniszewski's children. After that, she stripped Likens naked and carved the words \"I'M A PROSTITUTE AND PROUD OF IT\" onto Likens' abdomen with a heated needle. When Baniszewski was unable to finish the branding, she had Richard Hobbs finish. Hobbs continued to brand Likens as Baniszewski calmly took Jenny to the groceries. Hobbs and 10-year-old Shirley Baniszewski then used an iron poker in an attempt to burn the letter \"S\" into Likens' chest; the burn scar ended up looking like the number \"3.\" Baniszewski later taunted Likens about how she would never be able to marry a man due to the words carved onto her stomach. Likens was taken back to the basement, where Coy Hubbard arrived to tie her up and slam her body against the walls six to seven times. That night, Likens confided to her sister, \"I'm going to die. I can tell\". The next day, Baniszewski woke Likens, then dictated a letter to her, intending to mislead her parents into believing that she had run away. The letter also tried to frame a group of anonymous boys for abusing and mutilating Likens after she supposedly agreed to have sexual relations with them. After Likens finished the letter, Baniszewski formulated a plan to have John Jr. and Jenny take Sylvia to a nearby forested area and leave her there to die.\n\nOn October 25, Likens tried to escape after overhearing Baniszewski's plan to blindfold her and dump her body in Jimmy's Forest, a wooded area nearby. Likens fled to the front door but due to her extensive injuries, Baniszewski caught her in time. Likens was provided with toast but was unable to eat it due to her severe dehydration. Baniszewski shoved the toast into her mouth and struck her face several times with a curtain rod. She violently threw Likens into the basement and with the assistance of Hubbard, she tied and bludgeoned her until she was unconscious. Likens managed to recover but was unable to speak intelligibly and move her limbs properly. Likens tried to exit the basement but collapsed before she could make it to the stairs. Baniszewski crushed her head with her feet and stood there for several moments. \n\nOn October 26, after multiple beatings, burnings, and scalding baths, Likens died of a brain hemorrhage, shock, and malnutrition. She was 16 years old.\n\nWhen Stephanie Baniszewski and Richard Hobbs realized that Likens was not breathing, Stephanie tried to give her mouth-to-mouth resuscitation. Banzisewski, however, shouted at them that Likens was \"faking it\".\n\nWhen Baniszewski finally realized that Likens was dead, she sent Hobbs to call the police from a nearby payphone. When police arrived, Gertrude Baniszewski handed them the letter she had forced Likens to write a few days previously. Before the police officers left the house, however, Jenny Likens approached them and said, \"Get me out of here and I'll tell you everything.\" Her statement, combined with the discovery of Likens' body, prompted the officers to arrest Gertrude, Paula, Stephanie and John Baniszewski, Richard Hobbs, and Coy Hubbard for murder. Other neighborhood children present at the time—Mike Monroe, Randy Lepper, Darlene McGuire, Judy Duke, and Anna Siscoe—were arrested for \"injury to person\".\n\nBaniszewski, her children, Hobbs, and Hubbard were held without bail pending their trials.\n\nAn examination and autopsy of Likens' body revealed numerous burns, bruising, muscle and nerve damage. All of her fingernails were also broken backwards and most of the skin's outer layer peeled off. Her severely mutilated body led authorities to initially believe that it was the work of an \"anonymous madman\". In her death throes, Likens bit through her lips, partially severing each of them. Her vaginal cavity was nearly swollen shut, although an examination of the canal determined that her hymen was still intact, which meant it was possible she was still a virgin, discrediting Baniszewski's assertions that Likens was a prostitute and her insistence that she was pregnant. The official cause of death was brain swelling, internal hemorrhaging of the brain, and shock from severe and prolonged damage to her skin.\n\nDuring the highly publicized trial, Gertrude Baniszewski denied being responsible for Likens' death. She pleaded not guilty by reason of insanity. She claimed that she was too distracted by her ill health and depression to control her children.\n\nFour minors who took part in the abuse of Likens were also put on trial. They were:\n\n\nThe attorneys for the minors claimed that they had been pressured by Baniszewski.\n\nWhen Gertrude's 11-year-old daughter, Marie Baniszewski, was called to the stand as a witness for the defense, she broke down and admitted that she had been forced to heat the needle with which Hobbs had carved Likens' skin. She also testified that she had seen her mother beating Likens and forcing her into the basement.\n\nIn his closing statement, Baniszewski's lawyer said: \"I condemn her for being a murderess ... but I say she's not responsible because she's not all here!\" He tapped his head to make his point about her state of mind.\n\nOn May 19, 1966, Gertrude Baniszewski was convicted of first-degree murder. She was spared the death penalty and was sentenced to life imprisonment.\n\nPaula Baniszewski, who had given birth to a daughter during the trial, was convicted of second-degree murder. She was also sentenced to life imprisonment.\n\nRichard Hobbs, Coy Hubbard, and John Baniszewski Jr. were all convicted of manslaughter and given two 2-to-21-year prison sentences.\n\nHobbs, Hubbard, and John Baniszewski Jr. each served two years in a reformatory before being paroled in 1968.\n\nIn 1971, Gertrude and Paula Baniszewski were granted another trial by the Indiana Supreme Court, largely for reasons of a prejudicial atmosphere due to heavy news media publicity before and during the trial. Paula Baniszewski pleaded guilty to voluntary manslaughter and was released from prison one year later. Gertrude Baniszewski, however, was again convicted of first-degree murder and sentenced to life in prison. Over the course of the next 14 years, Baniszewski became a model prisoner at the Indiana Women's Prison, working in the sewing shop and becoming a \"den mother\" to younger female inmates. By the time she came up for parole in 1985, she was known by the prison nickname \"Mom\".\n\nThe news of Baniszewski's parole hearing sent shockwaves through the Indiana community. Jenny Likens and her family appeared on television to speak out against Baniszewski; the members of two anti-crime groups, Protect the Innocent and Society's League Against Molestation, travelled to Indiana to oppose her parole and support the Likens family, beginning a sidewalk picket campaign. Over the course of two months, the groups collected over 40,000 signatures from the citizens of Indiana, including those who were too young to remember the case, demanding that Baniszewski be kept behind bars. Despite the efforts, Baniszewski was granted parole. During the hearing, she stated: \"I'm not sure what role I had in it ... because I was on drugs. I never really knew her ... I take full responsibility for whatever happened to Sylvia.\" The parole board, taking her good behavior in prison into account, voted in favor of granting Baniszewski's freedom 3–2, and she was released.\n\nBaniszewski was released from prison on December 4, 1985, and traveled to Iowa, where she called herself Nadine Van Fossan, using her middle name and maiden name. She lived in obscurity until her death in Laurel, Iowa, from lung cancer, on June 16, 1990, aged 60.\n\nWhen Jenny Likens, who was then married and living in Beech Grove, Indiana, saw Gertrude Baniszewski's obituary in a newspaper, she clipped it and mailed it to her mother with the note: \"Some good news. Damn old Gertrude died. Ha ha ha! I am happy about that.\" Jenny Likens Wade died of a heart attack on June 23, 2004, at the age of 54.\n\nRichard Hobbs died of cancer on January 2, 1972, at the age of 21, four years after being released from the reformatory.\n\nAfter the Westside Middle School massacre, John Baniszewski Jr., by then calling himself John Blake, made a statement claiming that young criminals are not beyond help and describing how he had turned his life around. He died of diabetes at General Hospital in Lancaster, Pennsylvania, on May 19, 2005, at the age of 52.\n\nCoy Hubbard, Stephanie Baniszewski's boyfriend (who had beaten Likens) was in and out of prison after his release. He was later charged with the murder of two men but was acquitted. He died of a heart attack on June 23, 2007, at the age of 56 in Shelbyville, Indiana. \n\nPaula Baniszewski, the eldest of Gertrude's seven children, received a prison sentence of twenty years to life for her part in Likens' death. Her baby daughter, Gertrude, whom she gave birth to while incarcerated, was later adopted. In 1971, she twice tried unsuccessfully to escape from prison. In 1972, she was paroled and assumed a new identity. She eventually married, has two children, and reportedly lives in a small town in Iowa today. She worked as an aide to a school counselor for 14 years at the Beaman-Conrad-Liscomb-Union-Whitten (BCLUW) school district in Iowa, having changed her name to Paula Pace and lied to the school district when applying for the job. She was fired in 2012 when the school discovered her deception.\n\nThe murder charge against Gertrude Baniszewski's second-eldest daughter, Stephanie (aged 15), was dropped after she turned state's evidence against the other defendants. She assumed a new name and became a school teacher. She married and has several children.\n\nThe injury-to-person charges against the younger juveniles, Anna Ruth Siscoe, Judy Darlene Duke, Michael John (Mike) Monroe, Darlene McGuire, and Randy Gordon Lepper, were dropped. Siscoe married and had children and grandchildren; she died on October 23, 1996 at the age of 44. Lepper died on November 14, 2010 in Indianapolis at the age of 56.\n\nOn May 10, 2015, Likens' sister Diana (who was using the name Dianna Bedwell) and her husband, Cecil Knutson, were reported missing by their son, Robert Acosta. Dianna and Cecil had been gambling at the Valley View Casino in Valley Center, California. Surveillance video recorded the couple leaving the casino at about 2 p.m. by car, but they did not show up at their son's house in La Quinta. Acosta contacted the police and appeared on television, asking the public's help in finding his parents. On May 25, 2015, the couple was found in a mountainous area of an Indian reservation by members of a volunteer Jeep patrol. Cecil was dead and Dianna was severely dehydrated after surviving on just rainwater and some food. Dianna was airlifted to a hospital in serious condition. She told investigators they were looking for a shortcut when they got lost and became stuck on a rugged road.\n\nThe house at 3850 East New York Street in which Likens was tortured and murdered stood vacant and rundown for many years after the murder. Although there was some discussion of purchasing it for renovation and using it as a women's shelter, the necessary funds were never raised. The house was demolished on April 23, 2009. The property is now a church parking lot.\n\nA block of granite was dedicated in June 2001 as a memorial to Likens in Willard Park, 1700 E. Washington Street. The dedication was attended by several hundred people.\n\nThe case has since been the subject of numerous fictional and non-fictional accounts.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5923227", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5923227", "title": "Ontario College of Family Physicians", "text": "Ontario College of Family Physicians\n\nThe Ontario College of Family Physicians is an organization in Ontario for family physicians. It is known for its review of the health effects of pesticides.\n\nIn 2004 researchers from the Ontario College of Family Physicians reviewed the epidemiological literature from 1992-2003 on health effects and concluded that \"exposure to all the commonly used pesticides — phenoxyherbicides, organophosphates, carbamates, and pyrethrins — has shown positive associations with adverse health effects\" Shortly after its release the review was criticized by the UK's Advisory on Pesticides Committee, which the authors responded to. In 2007 related reviews were published in separate articles on the cancer effects and the non-cancer effects.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51030874", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51030874", "title": "PT Foundation", "text": "PT Foundation\n\nPT Foundation is a community-based, voluntary non-profit making organization providing HIV/AIDS education, prevention, care and support programmes, sexual health and empowerment programmes for vulnerable communities in Malaysia. PT Foundation is the largest community-based HIV/AIDS organization in Malaysia and has benefited more than 100,000 people.\n\nPT Foundation was also one of the seven founding members of the Malaysian AIDS Council (MAC). \n\nPink Triangle Sdn Bhd was founded in 1987 to provide a telephone counseling service for HIV/AIDS and sexuality issues. It was founded to cater for gay men in Malaysia. The foundation started in a small room in an apartment on the 13th floor of City Tower in Jalan Alor, Kuala Lumpur before moving to Jalan Inai and finally to its current location at Jalan Ipoh Kecil. In 2000, PT Foundation was registered under the Register of Companies and took over the assets of Pink Triangle Sdn Bhd and was formally recognized as a Foundation in Malaysia. The foundation has evolved to provide support and care services to four other vulnerable communities: \"Maknyah\" (a Malay term for a male-to-female transgender people), commercial sex workers, drug users and people living with HIV.\n\nPT Foundation is the first NGO in Malaysia to offer HIV/AIDS counseling, prevention, support and care services.\n\nPT Foundation provides telephone and face-to-face counseling, anonymous HIV and STI screening, outreach programmes, and support for key affected populations mainly drug users, sex workers, transsexuals, men who have sex with men (MSM), and people living with HIV/AIDS (PLHIV).\n\nCHCC is a centre located in Sentul, Kuala Lumpur. The centre is managed as a social enterprise, where beneficiaries of the programme pay a small fee for HIV and other sexually-transmitted diseases tests and counselling services. The centre is accredited as an Impact Driven Enterprise by the Finance Ministry. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "42609992", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42609992", "title": "Pharmaceutical Association of Mauritius", "text": "Pharmaceutical Association of Mauritius\n\nThe Pharmaceutical Association of Mauritius (PAM) is a professional society serving pharmacists in Mauritius. It was founded by a group of pharmacists in 1979.\n\nThe goal of the association \"is to meet members' needs, encourage personal and professional growth and provide information about events, issues and continuous education opportunities, industrial news, and a wide variety of membership activities, and to ensure the well-care of patients\".\n\nThe total number of association members is reaching 400 pharmacists out of Mauritius' population of nearly 1,300,000 inhabitants.\n\nThe Executive Committee of PAM is composed of 11 members who are elected at its Annual General Meeting, and is constituted as follows:\n\nThe pharmacy sector in Mauritius is regulated by two laws: the Pharmacy Act 1985 and the Dangerous Drugs Act 2000.\nPAM works in close collaboration with the Pharmacy Board of the Mauritius Ministry Of Health and Quality of Life on different matters, such as The National Pharmacovigilence.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46527964", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46527964", "title": "Photophthalmia", "text": "Photophthalmia\n\nPhotophthalmia ( pho·toph·thal·mia (\"fōt″of-thal´me-ah\") ) is ophthalmia or inflammation of the eye, especially of the cornea and conjunctiva due to exposure to intense light of short wavelength (as ultraviolet light), as in snow blindness.\n\nIt involves occurrence of multiple epithelial erosions due to the effect of ultraviolet rays, especially between 311 and 290 nm. Snow blindness occurs due to reflection of ultraviolet rays from snow surface. Photoretinitis is another form that can occur due to infra-red rays (eclipse burn of retina).\n\nIt can present with the following:\n\nCrooke’s glass is a prophylactic aid consisting of a spectacle lens combined with metallic oxides to absorb ultraviolet or infrared rays and should be used by those who are prone to exposure e.g. Welding workers, cinema operators.\n\nThe following may provide relief:\n"}
{"id": "167941", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=167941", "title": "Plain language", "text": "Plain language\n\nPlain language is writing designed to ensure the reader understands as quickly, easily, and completely as possible. Plain language strives to be easy to read, understand, and use. It avoids verbose, convoluted language and jargon. In many countries, laws mandate that public agencies use plain language to increase access to programs and services. The United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities includes plain language as one of the \"modes, means and formats of communication\".\n\nMost literacy and communications scholars agree that plain language means:\n\nPlain language focuses on ways of writing a text so that it is clear, concise, pertinent, efficient, and flows well for the reader. The Center for plain language states that: \"[a] document, web site or other information is in plain language if the target audience can read it, understand what they read, and confidently act on it\". Writing in plain language does not mean oversimplifying the concepts, but presenting the information in a way that makes it easier to understand and use by a wider audience. Texts written in plain language are still formal, but are easier to read and inspire confidence for the reader.\n\nUsing plain language in communications ultimately improves efficiency, because there is less ambiguity for the readers, and less time is taken for clarifications and explanations. Clear communication improves the user's experience with the organization, ultimately creating trust in the company.\n\nWriters who wish to write in plain language must first and foremost consider their target audience. This should have an influence on what information is included in the text and on how it is written. Different audiences have different needs, and require different information. When writing, it is important to consider what the target audience needs to accomplish, and what and how much information they need to complete it. The target audience will also affect the chosen vocabulary: writing for someone in the same field as the author is different than writing for someone for whom English is his or her second language.\n\nThe text must be organized logically: the most important information should be mentioned first, in the text as a whole and in every individual paragraph. Headings help the reader skim the text more rapidly to find what he or she is looking for. Sentences should be kept short, and only include the necessary information. A long, verbose sentence tends to present too much information at once, and blurs its main point. The text should be direct and concise, and have an easy flow to it.\n\nThe chosen vocabulary must remain simple and familiar. Everyday language should be favoured against acronyms, jargon and legal language. Plain language favours the use of the verb form of the word, instead of the noun form. To enhance clarity, plain language privileges the active voice, in which the subject does the action of the verb. Sentences written in plain language have a positive construction and address the reader directly.\n\nWriting in plain language also takes into account the presentation of the text. It is important to choose a font that is easy to read, and set it to an adequate size. Sentences written in capital letters are harder to read because the letters are less distinguishable from one another. Simple design elements like leaving white spaces, using bullets, and choosing contrasting colours encourages a user to read the text and makes it easier to read.\n\nCicero argued, \"When you wish to instruct, be brief; that men's minds take in quickly what you say, learn its lesson, and retain it faithfully. Every word that is unnecessary only pours over the side of a brimming mind.\" Cicero writes that the plain style is not easy. While it may seem close to everyday speech, achieving the effect in formal discourse is a high and difficult art: \"Plainness of style seems easy to imitate at first thought, but when attempted, nothing is more difficult.\"\n\nPlainness does not mean the absence of all ornaments, only the more obvious ones. Cicero recognizes what Aristotle had already pointed out, that a well-turned metaphor or simile can help us see a relation we had not recognized. In fact, he makes use of metaphor and simile to teach us what the plain style is all about: \n\n... although it is not full-blooded, it should nevertheless have some of the sap of life so that, though it lack great strength, it may be, so to speak, in sound health... Just as some women are said to be handsomer when unadorned... so this plain style gives pleasure when unembellished... All noticeable pearls, as it were, will be excluded. Not even curling irons will be used. All cosmetics, artificial white and red, will be rejected. Only elegance and neatness will remain. (The Orator, xxiii, 76-79)\nShakespeare parodied the pretentious style, as in the speeches of Dogberry in \"Much Ado About Nothing\". \nThe plain, or native style, was, in fact, an entire literary tradition during the English Renaissance, from John Skelton through Ben Jonson and include such poets as Barnabe Googe, George Gascoigne, Walter Raleigh, and perhaps the later work of Fulke Greville. In addition to its purely linguistic plainness, the Plain Style employed an emphatic, pre-Petrarchan prosody (each syllable either clearly stressed or clearly unstressed).\n\nBy the end of the 19th century, scholars began to study the features of plain language. A. L. Sherman, a professor of English literature at the University of Nebraska, wrote \"Analytics of Literature: A Manual for the Objective Study of English Prose and Poetry\" in 1893. In this work, Sherman showed that the typical English sentence has shortened over time and that spoken English is a pattern for written English.\n\nSherman wrote: \nLiterary English, in short, will follow the forms of the standard spoken English from which it comes. No man should talk worse than he writes, no man writes better than he should talk... The oral sentence is clearest because it is the product of millions of daily efforts to be clear and strong. It represents the work of the race for thousands of years in perfecting an effective instrument of communication.\nTwo 1921 works, Harry Kitson's \"The Mind of the Buyer\", and Edward L. Thorndike's \"The Teacher's Word Book\" picked up where Sherman left off. Kitson's work was the first to apply empirical psychology to advertising. He advised the use of short words and sentences. Thorndike's work contained the frequency ratings of 10,000 words. He recommended using the ratings in his book to grade books not only for students in schools but also for average readers and adults learning English. Thorndike wrote:\nIt is commonly assumed that children and adults prefer trashy stories in large measure because they are more exciting and more stimulating in respect to sex. There is, however, reason to believe that greater ease of reading in respect to vocabulary, construction, and facts, is a very important cause of preference. A count of the vocabulary of \"best sellers\" and a summary of it in terms of our list would thus be very instructive.\nThe 1930s saw many studies on how to make texts more readable. In 1931, Douglas Tyler and Ralph Waples published the results of their two-year study, \"What People Want to Read About\". In 1934, Ralph Ojemann, Edgar Dale, and Ralph Waples published two studies on writing for adults with limited reading ability. In 1935, educational psychologist William S. Gray teamed up with Bernice Leary to publish their study, \"What Makes a Book Readable\".\n\nGeorge Orwell's 1946 essay \"Politics and the English Language\" decried the pretentious diction, meaninglessness, vagueness, and worn-out idioms of political jargon. In 1979, the Plain English Campaign was founded in London to combat \"gobbledegook, jargon and legalese\".\n\nLyman Bryson at Teachers College in Columbia University led efforts to supply average readers with more books of substance dealing with science and current events. Bryson's students include Irving Lorge and Rudolf Flesch, who became leaders in the plain-language movement. In 1975, Flesch collaborated with J. Peter Kincaid to create the Flesch-Kincaid readability test, which uses an algorithm to produce grade level scores that predict the level of education required to read the selected text. The instrument looks at word length (number of letters) and sentence length (number of words) and produces a score that is tied to a U.S. grade school level. For example, a score of 8.0 means that an eighth grader can read the document.\n\nOthers who later led plain language and readability research include educator Edgar Dale of Ohio State, Jeanne S. Chall of the Reading Laboratory of Harvard, and George R. Klare of Ohio University. Their efforts spurred the publication of over 200 readability formulas and 1,000 published studies on readability.\n\nBeginning in 1935, a series of literacy surveys showed that the average reader in the U.S. was an adult of limited reading ability. Today, the average adult in the U.S. reads at the 9th-grade level.\n\nAccess to health information, educational and economic development opportunities, and government programs is often referred to in a social justice context. To ensure more community members can access this information, many adult educators, legal writers, and social program developers use plain language principles when they develop public documents. The goal of plain language translation is to increase accessibility for those with lower literacy levels.\n\nIn the United States, the movement towards plain language legal writing began with the 1963 book \"Language of the Law\", by David Mellinkoff. However, the movement was popularized by Richard Wydick’s 1979 book \"Plain English for Lawyers.\" This was followed by famous plain language promissory notes by Nationwide Mutual Insurance and Citibank in the 1970s.\n\nConcerned about the large number of suits against its customers to collect bad debts, the bank voluntarily made the decision to implement plain language policies in 1973. That same decade, the consumer-rights movement won legislation that required plain language in contracts, insurance policies, and government regulations. American law schools began requiring students to take legal writing classes that encouraged them to use plain English as much as possible and to avoid legal jargon, except when absolutely necessary. Public outrage with the skyrocketing number of unreadable government forms led to the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980.\n\nIn 1972, the Plain Language Movement received practical political application, when President Richard Nixon decreed that the \"Federal Register be written in layman's terms\". On March 23, 1978, U.S. President Jimmy Carter signed Executive Order 12044, which said that federal officials must see that each regulation is \"written in plain English and understandable to those who must comply with it\". President Ronald Reagan rescinded these orders in 1981, but many political agencies continued to follow them. By 1991, eight states had also passed legislation related to plain language. Plain Language Association International (PLAIN) was formed in 1993 as the Plain Language Network. Its membership is international; it was incorporated as a non-profit organization in Canada in 2008. \nIn June 1998, President Bill Clinton issued a memorandum that called for executive departments and agencies to use plain language in all government documents. Vice President Al Gore subsequently spearheaded a plain language initiative that formed a group called the Plain Language Action Network (PLAIN) to provide plain language training to government agencies.\n\nOther organizations have formed recently. Clarity is an international association promoting plain legal language. The organization publishes a journal. The Plain Language Information and Action Network (also known as PLAIN) is a group of volunteer US federal employees working to improve communications from the federal government to the public. The Center for Plain Language is a US-based nonprofit organization promoting the use of plain language in the public and private sectors. The organization hosts annual symposia in Washington DC. The Center also gives ClearMark Awards to outstanding examples of clear communication, and WonderMark awards to examples of truly bad communication.\nOrganizations that have endorsed plain language include the Legal Writing Institute, the Canadian Bar Association, and the Canadian Bankers Association.\n\nPLAIN provided guidance to federal executive agencies when President Barack Obama signed the Plain Writing Act of 2010, which required federal executive agencies to put all new and revised covered documents into plain language. The Act's sponsor, U.S. Representative Bruce Braley, noted upon its passage that \"The writing of documents in the standard vernacular English language will bolster and increase the accountability of government within America and will continue to more effectively save time and money in this country.\"\n\nPlain language is also gaining traction in U.S. courts and legal aid agencies. California was the first state to adopt plain language court forms and instructions, for which it received the 2003 Burton Award for Outstanding Reform. A 2006 comparative study of plain language court forms concluded that \"plain language court forms and instructions are better understood, easier to use, and more economical\".\n\nThe European Union provides European standards for making information easy to read and understand. The rules are comparable to the rules for plain language. Based in Germany there is a dictionary for plain language called Hurraki. In France, a 2002 decision by the Constitutional Council recognized a constitutional goal of ensuring the \"clarity and intelligibility\" of French law.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "166138", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=166138", "title": "Power of attorney", "text": "Power of attorney\n\nA power of attorney (POA) or letter of attorney is a written authorization to represent or act on another's behalf in private affairs, business, or some other legal matter. The person authorizing the other to act is the \"principal\", \"grantor\", or \"donor\" (of the power). The one authorized to act is the \"agent\" or, in some common law jurisdictions, the attorney-in-fact.\n\nFormerly, the term \"power\" referred to an instrument signed under seal while a \"letter\" was an instrument under hand, meaning that it was simply signed by the parties, but today a power of attorney need not be signed under seal. Some jurisdictions require that powers of attorney be notarized or witnessed, but others will enforce a power of attorney as long as it is signed by the grantor.\n\nThe term \"attorney-in-fact\" is used in many jurisdictions instead of the term \"agent\". That term should be distinguished from the term \"attorney-at-law\". In the United States, an attorney-at-law is a solicitor who is also licensed to be an advocate in a particular jurisdiction. An attorney-in-fact may be a layperson and is authorized to act pursuant to the powers granted by a power of attorney, but may not engage in acts that would constitute the unauthorized practice of law.\n\nIn the context of the unincorporated reciprocal inter-insurance exchange (URIE) the attorney-in-fact is a stakeholder/trustee who takes custody of the subscriber funds placed on deposit with him, and then uses those funds to pay insurance claims. When all the claims are paid, the attorney-in-fact then returns the leftover funds to the subscribers.\n\nThe Uniform Power of Attorney Act employs the term \"agent\". As an agent, an attorney-in-fact is a fiduciary for the principal, so the law requires an attorney-in-fact to be completely honest with and loyal to the principal in their dealings with each other.\n\nCare must be taken when selecting an attorney-in-fact, as some attorneys-in-fact have used their authority to steal the assets of vulnerable individuals such as the elderly (see elder abuse).\n\nThe person who creates a power of attorney, known as the grantor, can only do so when he/she has the requisite mental capacity. Suppose the grantor loses capacity to grant permission after the power of attorney has been created (for example, from Alzheimer's disease or a head injury in a car crash); then the power will probably no longer be effective. In some powers of attorney the grantor states that he/she wishes the document to remain in effect even after he/she becomes incapacitated. This type of power is commonly referred to as a durable power of attorney. If someone is already incapacitated, it is not possible for that person to execute a valid power. If a person does not have the capacity to execute a power of attorney (and does not already have a durable power in place), often the only way for another party to act on their behalf is to have a court impose a conservatorship or a guardianship.\n\nDepending on the jurisdiction, a power of attorney may be oral and, whether witnessed, will hold up in court, the same as if it were in writing. For some purposes, the law requires a power of attorney to be in writing. Many institutions, such as hospitals, banks and, in the United States, the Internal Revenue Service, require a power of attorney to be in writing before they will honor it, and they will usually keep a duplicate original or a copy for their records. Nursing homes often follow the same practice.\n\nThe equal dignity rule is a principle of law that requires an authorization for someone performing certain acts for another person to have been appointed with the same formality as required for the act the representative is going to perform. This means, for example, that if a principal authorizes someone to sell the principal's house or other real property, and the law requires a contract for the sale of real property to be in writing (which is required under the Statute of Frauds in most U.S. jurisdictions), then the authorization for the other person to sign the sales contract and deed must be in writing too. Likewise, in common-law jurisdictions other than the U.S., a power of an attorney to execute a deed (i.e. instrument under seal or executed in presence of two witnesses) must be itself executed as a deed.\n\nIn order for a power of attorney to become a legally enforceable document, at a minimum it must be signed and dated by the principal. Some jurisdictions also require that a power of attorney be witnessed, notarized, or both. Even when not required, having the document reviewed and signed (and often stamped) by a notary public may increase the likelihood of withstanding a legal challenge.\n\nIf the attorney-in-fact is being paid to act on behalf of the principal, a contract for payment may be separate from the document granting power of attorney. If that separate contract is in writing, as a separate document it may be kept private between the principal and agent even when the power of attorney is presented to others for the purposes of carrying out the agent's duties.\n\nA power of attorney may be: \"special\" (also called \"limited\"), \"general\", or \"temporary\". A special power of attorney is one that is limited to a specified act or type of act. A general power of attorney is one that allows the agent to make all personal and business decisions A temporary power of attorney is one with a limited time frame. If ever required, a durable power of attorney can be revoked or changed as long as the principal is still mentally competent to act.\n\nUnder the common law, a power of attorney becomes ineffective if its grantor dies or becomes \"incapacitated,\" meaning unable to grant such a power, because of physical injury or mental illness, for example, unless the grantor (or principal) specifies that the power of attorney will continue to be effective even if the grantor becomes incapacitated. This type of power of attorney is called \"power of attorney with durable provisions\" in the United States or \"enduring power of attorney\" elsewhere. In effect, under a durable power of attorney (DPA), the authority of the attorney-in-fact to act and/or make decisions on behalf of the grantor continues until the grantor's death.\n\nIn some jurisdictions, a durable power of attorney can also be a \"health care power of attorney.\" This particular affidavit gives the attorney-in-fact the authority to make health-care decisions for the grantor, up to and including terminating care and life support. The grantor can typically modify or restrict the powers of the agent to make end-of-life decisions. In many jurisdictions a health care power of attorney is also referred to as a \"health care proxy\" and, as such, the two terms are sometimes used interchangeably.\n\nRelated to the health care power of attorney is a separate document known as an advance health care directive, also called a \"living will\". A living will is a written statement of a person's health care and medical wishes but does not appoint another person to make health care decisions. Depending upon the jurisdiction, a health care power of attorney may or may not appear with an advance health care directive in a single, physical document. For example, the California legislature has adopted a standard power of attorney for health care and advance health care directive form that meets all of that state's legal wording requirements for a power of attorney and advance health care directive in a single document. Compare this to New York State, which enacted a Health Care Proxy law that requires a separate document be prepared appointing one as your health care agent.\n\nIn some U.S. states and other jurisdictions, it is possible to grant a \"springing power of attorney\"; i.e., a power that takes effect only after the incapacity of the grantor or some other definite future act or circumstance. After such incapacitation the power is identical to a durable power, but cannot be invoked before the incapacity. This power may be used to allow a spouse or family member to manage the grantor's affairs in case illness or injury makes the grantor unable to act. If a \"springing\" power is used, the grantor should specify exactly how and when the power \"springs\" into effect. As the result of privacy legislation in the U.S., medical doctors will often not reveal information relating to capacity of the principal unless the power of attorney specifically authorizes them to do so.\n\nDetermining whether the principal is \"disabled\" enough to initiate this type of representation is a formal process. Springing powers of attorney are not automatic, and institutions may refuse to work with the attorney-in-fact. Disputes are then resolved in court.\n\nUnless the power of attorney has been made irrevocable by its own terms or by some legal principle, the grantor may revoke the power of attorney by telling the attorney-in-fact it is revoked. However, if the principal does not inform third parties and it is reasonable for the third parties to rely upon the power of attorney being in force, the principal might still be bound by the acts of the agent, though the agent may also be liable for such unauthorized acts.\n\nStandardized forms are available for various kinds of powers of attorney, and many organizations provide them for their clients, customers, patients, employees, or members. However, the grantor should exercise caution when using a standardized POA form obtained from a source other than a lawyer because there is considerable variation in approved formats among the states. In some states statutory power of attorney forms are available. Examples include the California Statutory Form Power of Attorney, New York Form Power of Attorney and Wisconsin Form Power of Attorney.\n\nAlthough a power of attorney grants the agent powers to perform acts in the absence of the grantor, the POA cannot grant powers to the agent that conflict with rules and regulations governing people and companies that the agent deals with. For example, if a bank has regulations that require the grantor to be physically present in the bank to perform certain actions, the POA cannot grant the agent power to perform those actions in the absence of the grantor.\n\nRobert's Rules of Order notes that proxy voting involves granting a power of attorney. The term \"proxy\" refers to both the power of attorney itself and the person to whom it is granted.\n\nIn financial situations wherein a principal requests a securities broker to perform extensive investment functions on the principal's behalf, independent of the principal's advice, power of attorney must be formally granted to the broker to trade in the principal's account. This rule also applies to principals who instruct their brokers to perform certain specific trades and principals who trust their brokers to perform certain trades in the principal's best interest.\n\nIn Australia, anyone with capacity can grant a power of attorney. This can be done either for a pre-defined period of time, or in perpetuity (\"enduring\"). The power of attorney can be granted to one individual, or to multiple individuals. When granted to multiple individuals, they may be authorised either to act jointly (all together) or to act severally (each can act individually). \n\nIn English and Welsh law, anyone with capacity can grant a power of attorney. These can be general (i.e., to do anything which can legally be done by an attorney), or relate to a specific act (e.g., to sell freehold property). A power of attorney is only valid while the donor has the capacity to ratify the attorney's actions, unless it is made in the form of a lasting power of attorney and registered with the Office of the Public Guardian. This new form of power of attorney was introduced in 2007 under the Mental Capacity Act 2005 and replaced the former enduring power of attorney, although EPAs correctly made before the law changed are still valid. EPAs only need to be registered if the donor has since lost capacity.\n\nThe Office of the Public Guardian provides online process for registering power of attorney.\n\nMany of the provisions in the earlier paragraphs above use terminology different from either common UK usage or terms used in the Mental Capacity Act 2005. Examples are enduring power of attorney, advance directive, and notary public.\n\nIn Irish law there are two forms of power of attorney:\nThe death of the donor ends both.\n\nThe relevant legislation is the Powers of Attorney Act 1996 and the Enduring Powers of Attorney Regulations 1996 (SI No. 196/1996) as amended by SI No. 287/1996. Part 7 of the Assisted Decision-Making (Capacity) Act 2015 provides for new arrangements for those who wish to make an Enduring Power of Attorney and once the 2015 act is commenced, no new powers of attorney will be created under the 1996 act.\n\nA solicitor is not necessary when creating Power of Attorney - it can be created when signed by the donor in the presence of a witness.\n\nCreating an Enduring Power of Attorney requires the following:\n\nThe courts play a general supervisory role in the implementation of the power.\n\nUnder Russian law, specifically art. 185 of the Russian Civil Code, a power of attorney may be executed under hand or in notarial form. The power of attorney to act must be notarially executed. Notarial execution is required for any power of attorney made for concluding a contract subject to special public recordation, namely those dealing with interests in immovable property.\n\nA power of attorney, pursuant to art. 186 of the Russian Civil Code, must also be dated. Any POA without an express date of execution is void.\n\nA power of attorney cannot be irrevocable. The grantor may terminate the POA at any time at his or her sole discretion. Any waiver of this right is void, as provided by the Civil Code.\n\nThe Office of the Public Guardian in Scotland offers the eAttorney Electronic Power of Attorney (EPOAR) system for the submission and payment of powers of attorney registrations.\n\n"}
{"id": "7583193", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7583193", "title": "Project Mercy", "text": "Project Mercy\n\nProject Mercy, Inc. is a Christian, non profit organization located in Yetebon, Ethiopia, founded in 1977 by Marta Gabre-Tsadick and Deme Tekle-Wold. Over the past 18 years, Project Mercy's original mission has been expanded to include community development and self-help programs.\n\nThe international ministry of Project Mercy was started to provide emergency relief and relocation assistance to Ethiopian refugees. The ministry has expanded to reach to a number of additional countries including Ivory Coast, Djibouti, Guinea, Iraq, Kenya, Malawi and Sudan. In 1993, the organization shifted its focus to creating a relief and development model that can be used by others to help break the cycle of famine and poverty in communities. They have taken a holistic community development approach in aiding the Yetebon community (a farming district in Central Ethiopia) With a variety of programs to aid both the physical and spiritual needs of the area.\n\nYetebon is a small village located 9 km from Butajira, and is about a two-hour drive south of Addis Ababa. It has a population of about 70,000 people. Yetebon is the home of the Gurahge people who are tradesmen, herdsmen, and farmers. Project Mercy sits on of land, donated by the elders of Yetebon. The people Project Mercy serves in Yetebon are predominantly Muslim believers. There are many mosques and Ethiopian Orthodox churches in the area.\n\nIn 1974, Marta Gabre-Tsadick, her husband, Demeke Tekle-Wold, and their children were all forced to flee Ethiopia, barely escaping the chaos of the emerging Marxist government. Marta, the first woman senator in the Ethiopian government, had been identified as a supporter of Emperor Haile Selassie, and because of this, her execution was assured. After hearing this news, Marta and Deme made the decision to flee to Kenya. After first finding help there, the family soon moved to the United States. Eventually, they all became U.S. citizens, but Marta and Deme intended to return to help the people in Ethiopia. So, in 1977, they established Project Mercy in Yetebon, the birthplace of Marta's father. It was started to provide emergency relief and relocation help to refugees. They wanted to \"one day return to their homeland to do everything they could to educate its future leaders in restoring its rich heritage\" (casefoundation.org). Marta eventually had the opportunity to return to Ethiopia. She received word that a few of the elders of Yetebon wanted to meet with her. The elders expressed to her how they feared for their children's future because there was no hope (people were dying from preventable diseases, the community was illiterate, and there was no clean water or usable roads). Project Mercy is affiliated with Share Our Strength (SOS). Share Our Strength works with organizations like Project Mercy to identify the most efficient ways of expanding existing social services, and to replicate exemplary models. Project Mercy was originally started as a school for children, grades K-10. In December 2002 Project Mercy used a US$20,000 donation from SOS to feed 600 people for six weeks, focusing on severely malnourished children and their parents. In 1983, Marta wrote and published a book, Sheltered by the King, which describes the hardships she and Demeke, along with their children, endured while fleeing Ethiopia to find safety in the U.S., and eventually establish Project Mercy.\n\nWhen it started, Project Mercy provided emergency relief and relocation assistance to African refugees. Project Mercy enlarged its initial focus and, for nearly two decades, it not only provided emergency relief aid, but has expanded its help to educational assistance and support for refugee evangelists. Project Mercy provides social services, including emergency feeding, job training, health care, including HIV/AIDS education, irrigation systems, agricultural development, orphan support, and education. Project Mercy not only responds to crises, but also focuses on self-sufficiency, sustainability and measurable impact.\n\n\"In order to fight against poverty you have to attack it from many different directions and then pluck it out,\" said Marta in 2009 as she described the community development model of Project Mercy. \"We cannot educate children if the only outcome is to make them discontented with the limited job opportunities currently available to them. We cannot just treat symptoms of malnutrition in the clinic and not also improve nutrition and agricultural production. We cannot teach good hygiene practices if people still need to bathe and drink from the same contaminated water supply. Clean water piped into each home is possible but only if economic conditions are improved for the entire community. Project Mercy is involved in all these things in order to be a means of transformation through which God's love can renew the heart of the nation.\"\n\nProject Mercy recently embarked on a new orphan and foster care program called the “Children’s Institute”. This was in response to a request by the local government of the Oromiya Region in Ethiopia if they would accept and provide care for vulnerable children, many of whom are HIV/AIDS victim orphans. The plan provides for an intimate and nurturing environment for 200 young children in a family-like setting of one house mother and up to eight children per home, and anticipates the construction of 30 family homes. The homes will each have a garden along with a cow to provide ongoing nutrition and care. Construction has begun with significant progress being made on the first section of six homes. Currently a number of orphans are being housed and cared for with other foster children at the Yetebon compound.\nMany of the students give back to the community by teaching literacy, HIV/AIDS prevention, family planning, basic arithmetic and back yard gardening to families in the hard to reach mountain areas surrounding Yetebon. Thousands of people have benefited from this initiative and nearly 8,000 can now read and write for the first time because of these programs.\n\nThe Medhane-Alem School has about 1,600 students enrolled in Kindergarten through grade 12, and there are over 90 graduates of the high school who are currently enrolled in various universities within Ethiopia. The School Meal Program also provides two meals per school day to each of the students.\n\nA Skills Enhancement Program is empowering men and women from the community by training them in marketable skills that they can use to earn an income. Women are being trained in traditional spinning of cotton, weaving baskets, creating embroidered table linens and making elegant jewelry. Men are learning masonry, construction material fabrication, carpentry and metal working. In addition to learning a valuable trade, every individual enrolled in our Skills Enhancement Program must also learn basic reading, writing and arithmetic.\n\nProject Mercy operates the Glenn C. Olsen Primary General Hospital. This state of the art facility is equipped with diagnostic services, as well as a Surgical Ward, Pediatric Ward, Delivery Ward and Medical Ward.\nAdditionally, health classes are taught on personal hygiene, food keeping, housekeeping, and communicable and non-communicable disease control.\nThe hospital also has people from the community who have gone through training to become sanitarians. They go into the mountains and outer areas of the region and teach families about hygiene and sanitation practices.\n\nProviding a means for ongoing food sources is the key to eradicating future famine. Initiating family food security measures provide sustenance and also a means for income. Project Mercy’s agricultural program’s focus began as a result of the 2003 famine. Project Mercy worked very hard during that time to deliver monthly dry rations dispersed to 200,000 heads of families at sites within a 180-mile circumference from Yetebon. Project Mercy also cared for hundreds of the most severe cases of malnutrition in its emergency feeding centers. Project Mercy’s Supplemental Care program involved 75,000 children who were fed five times per day. An additional 1,300 children and elderly were cared for (fed intravenously due to the severity of malnutrition) in our Therapeutic Feeding Program. In spite of the horrendous effects of the famine, most of the children and elderly were saved.\n\nThe farmers in the rural areas of Ethiopia had not been taught many of the newer farming techniques or how to replenish their land. Project Mercy started large demonstration gardens in order to teach the school students as well as local farmers some of the methods that can be used to enhance their crops. Gardens were started using a variety of nutritious vegetables – many of which were new to the people of Yetebon. Once the vegetables matured, many from the community had their first introduction to broccoli, carrots, tomatoes, kale, spinach, etc. The seeds of some of the new vegetables were also dried for the next planting and shared with those in the community who were interested. The Project Mercy gardens are also used to provide a large portion of the food for the School Meal Program.\n\nDepending solely upon their small one acre farms for sustenance was something disastrous for farmers due to long periods of no rain or torrential rains that would wash out their crops. Project Mercy began experimenting with drip irrigation within its own gardens to manage the effects of the weather cycles. After it proved to be successful in the demonstration gardens, the drip irrigation program expanded through the dispersion of drip irrigation bucket kits.\n\nECHO (Educational Concerns for Hunger Organization) has been extremely helpful and gracious in supplying expertise along with a variety of fruit tree seedlings, including avocado, mango and papaya seeds. Once the trees reach a certain growth stage, they can be used for grafting. The avocado, mango and papaya survive well with little water and are excellent sources of nutrition. Once the root stock is built up and growing strong, grafts will be provided to local residents. These trees will generate nutritious fruit at home sites throughout the community to produce a cash crop in good times and serve as a buffer in times of scarcity.\n\nAdditional funding and expertise continues to be invested in a Dairy Cattle Breeding Program, which hopes to dramatically increase the milk production through successful crossbreeding and artificial insemination. The number of new calves born under the program continues to grow. Barns have been constructed on the 350 acre site in Cha Cha, Ethiopia and new equipment is in place to also plant and assist with crop management.\n\n\nPersonal Letter From Marta Gabre-Tsadick, December 13, 2005.\n"}
{"id": "38430559", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38430559", "title": "Restorative justice in social work", "text": "Restorative justice in social work\n\nThe practice of Restorative justice offers an alternative approach for dealing with harm caused by crime. It uses a three-dimensional approach that includes the victim, the offender, and the community. Restorative justice programs are used as a method of improving victim and/or offender satisfaction, increasing offender compliance with restitution, and decreasing the recidivism of offenders as an alternative to traditional criminal justice methods of response (i.e., incarceration, probation, court-ordered restitution, etc.). The current approach to crime, as Stinchcomb and Fox (1999) point out, “does little to reinforce any sense of either personal responsibility on the part of the offender or personal involvement in the justice process on the part of the victim.\" Restorative justice practices in social work are often geared towards cultivating alternative spaces, which value personal responsibility and involvement.\n\nLatimer, Dowden, and Muise (2005) define restorative justice as:\n\nThe fundamental premise of the restorative justice paradigm states that crime is a violation of people and relationships rather than just a violation of law. A violation of relationships requires a restoration process which incorporates voluntariness, truth telling, and a face-to-face encounter.\n\nModels of restorative justice can be grouped into three categories: circles, conferences, and victim-offender mediations. The principles upheld in each remain relatively similar.\n\nMethods of restorative justice benefit both victims and offenders by emphasizing the recovery of the victim through redress, vindication, and healing and by encouraging recompense by the offender through reparation, fair treatment, and habilitation. In the process of coming together to restore relationships, the community is also provided with an opportunity to heal through the reintegration of victims and offenders.\n\nThe history of restorative justice has its roots in the indigenous rituals of New Zealand communities where shaming of the offender was used as punishment for wrongdoings. Other communities—including African American, Latin@, Canadian Mennonite, and Native American—have also engaged in various restorative justice practices for many years.\n\nHoward Zehr is known as the grandfather of the Americanized restorative justice movement and refers to the three pillars of restorative justice:\nThe traditional justice system utilizes a one-dimensional adversarial approach with attention given primarily to the offender, as opposed to the alternative approach, restorative justice, which provides a holistic approach including all involved in the injustice.\n\nIn 1994, Mark Umbreit founded the Center for Restorative Justice & Peacemaking at the School for Social Work in the University of Minnesota. This was the first academic-based center for restorative justice that sponsored both research and training in the field. Having already been established in the School for Social Work since the early 1980's, Umbreit developed the Humanistic Approach to Mediation, emphasizing how restorative dialogue humanizes the resolution process as parties connect more deeply with the humanity of the other party. Mediators, through deep listening and mindfulness, learn to practice an indirect approach to facilitation by knowing when to \nstep out of the way so that victimized and offending parties can experience direct, heart-to-heart conversation.\n\nRestorative justice through a social work lens exists as an alternative to punitive methods of justice. It works to humanize all people involved, including ones being held responsible for an injustice. Social justice is one of the core values of social work. As a core value, it calls for more restorative methods of justice to be adopted, in order to break off the continuation of marginalizing systems, such as the prison-industrial complex. Restorative methods of justice seek peace and reconciliation. They focus attention on the harm done by an injustice and repairing the hurt caused, as opposed to the focus being on punishing the perpetrator of the injustice. It is in accordance with social work as a field to redistribute justice and counteract the present societal state of affairs.\n\nRestorative justice practices have the potential to decrease recidivism of offenders, fewer long-term effects of victimization, and strengthening of the aggregate well-being of a community. This three-dimensional approach to handling interpersonal injustices can be beneficial for all parties involved. \nVan Wormer (2002) describes restorative justice as a practice requiring societal institutions to work towards repairing the damage incurred by those who have been injured, while reintegrating perpetrators into society. Additionally, those most directly affected by crime (including victims and family members) should have the voluntary opportunity to participate in the response to crime. \n\nThe three types of restorative justice practices specific to social work are victim–offender mediation (VOM), family group conferencing (FGC), and peacemaking circles. \nVan Wormer and Bednar (2002) offer a bridge between restorative justice and the strengths perspective, which is a widely used social work approach that takes into consideration client capabilities and positive characteristics as a vehicle for change and coping. For example, an integrated theoretical understanding applied to battering males is termed “the restorative-strengths approach” and offers a new application for social work practice utilizing restorative justice practices.\n\n"}
{"id": "10074639", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10074639", "title": "SSM Health", "text": "SSM Health\n\nSSM Health is a Catholic, not-for-profit United States health care system with more than 1,600 employed physicians and 40000 other employees in four states, including Wisconsin, Oklahoma, Illinois, and Missouri. SSM Health is one of the largest employers in the cities it serves. \n\nSSM Health adopted the electronic health record early on, and provides care in a range of settings, including hospitals, pediatric medical centers, outpatient centers, clinics, surgery centers, nursing homes, assisted living facilities, physician offices, emergency centers, rehabilitation facilities, urgent care centers, home care, and hospice.\n\nBased in St. Louis, Missouri, SSM Health operates 20 hospitals, and has affiliations with 39 additional hospitals. SSM Health also owns two nursing homes and has a variety of partnerships with physicians.\n\nIn 2013, Dean Health System, a large multi-specialty physician group and health plan, finalized a deal to merge Dean and its subsidiaries, including Dean Health Plan, into SSM Health. The merger became effective on September 1, 2013, after all necessary regulatory approvals were received.\n\nSSM Health is sponsored by the Franciscan Sisters of Mary and is one of the largest Catholic hospital systems in the United States.\nRecently SSM Health has acquired Agnesian HealthCare from Fond du Lac, Wisconsin. This acquisition included 3 hospitals, Waupun Memorial, Ripon Medical, St Agnes Hospital along with a surgery center in Fond du lac. This included various clinics, nursing homes/hospice care, urgent care facilities.\n\nSSM Health traces its roots to 1872, when Mother Mary Odilia Berger and four other sisters came to St. Louis from Germany, after caring for sick and wounded soldiers during the Franco-Prussian War. Facing religious persecution in Germany, they came to the United States. When they arrived in St. Louis they began providing nursing care to people in their own homes. That winter, when a smallpox epidemic hit St. Louis, the sisters cared for the sick and dying. For a short time, people referred to them as the Smallpox Sisters. In 1874, the congregation received its formal name: the Sisters of St. Mary (SSM) from the parish where their convent was located, St. Mary of Victories near the riverfront in St. Louis.\n\nFive years after their arrival in St. Louis, the sisters borrowed $16,000, to open their first hospital, St. Mary’s Infirmary. Almost 60 percent of their patients were unable to pay for their health care services. Account ledgers from this time identify those who were unable to pay for their services as an “ODL,” a designation that stood for “Our Dear Lord’s.” During this time, the sisters relied on God to provide for their needs as they cared for the poor.\n\nMost of the health care facilities that today belong to SSM Health were previously part of a group of hospitals owned by the Sisters of St. Mary and centrally governed, but not centrally managed. In the mid-1980s, the sponsoring congregation decided to reorganize its hospitals into a system of centrally managed health care providers, and SSM Health was created in 1986. Today the system is managed by a team of professionals—both lay and religious—and governed by members of the sponsoring congregation as well as by laypersons from the communities served by its facilities.\n\nIn 2012, SSM Health stated that it was 'disappointed with the contraceptive mandate' regarding being legally forced to cover such items by the Affordable Care Act, against Catholic freedom of conscience.\n\nHeadquarters\n\nService Areas\n\nLocations\n\nEmployees\n\nPhysicians\n\nIn 2002, SSM Health became the first health care organization in history to receive the Malcolm Baldrige National Quality Award, the highest award for quality in the U.S.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9609222", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9609222", "title": "SmartCare", "text": "SmartCare\n\nThe SmartCare electronic health record system (EHR) has been developed and deployed by the Zambia Ministry of Health (MoH) in collaboration with the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) and many other implementing partners.\n\nSmartCare is:\n\n\nSmartCare is also the name of a child care management software solution available in the United States.\n\n\nTo enable the delivery of cost-effective, confidential, quality health care for everyone, everywhere, every time, by improving health records and related health information systems.\n\n\n\n\nIn addition to Zambia, SmartCare is also being used in Ethiopia and South Africa. However, it was only available for use by partner organizations. \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4559113", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4559113", "title": "Smart drink", "text": "Smart drink\n\nSmart drinks, also known as nootropic drinks, are beverages made from a mix of fruit juices, vitamins, herbal supplements, and a variety of amino acid supplements.\n\nThe consumption of smart drinks and \"smart drugs\" began in the early 1980s when baby boomers started using because they believed these products would improve job performance and give them a competitive edge in the workplace. The popularity of smart drinks peaked during the early 1990s, as all-night techno and house music parties took place, events of the underground dance culture at the time, known as \"raves.\" Rave enthusiasts preferred drugs such as ecstasy, methamphetamine, ketamine, or \"poppers\" to alcohol. Instead of drinking alcoholic beverages at raves, the dancers would drink smart drinks. Smart drinks not only held a novelty factor for the vibrant social subculture, but they also helped rave promoters by eliminating the need to secure alcohol sales permits and therefore allowed raves to be held outside of the traditional nightclub, bar or pub scene.\n\nSmart drink ingredients often include substances such as DL-phenylalanine or L-phenylalanine, L-tyrosine, choline (trimethylaminoethanol), pyroglutamic acid, B vitamins, glucuronolactone, and DMAE (dimethylaminoethanol). These amino acids were claimed to have positive or enhanced effects on alertness, stress resistance and energy levels. Some of the acids, then considered \"foods\" and nutritional supplements by government agencies like the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA), changed in status and have since been removed from store shelves. Others are still available when prescribed by a doctor.\n\n"}
{"id": "54842660", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54842660", "title": "Smoking in Hungary", "text": "Smoking in Hungary\n\nSmoking in Hungary is viewed as an important public health issue. Several studies have shown that smoking of tobacco or narcotics (e.g. cannabis) have different negative impacts on the society. (Vide Health effects of tobacco, Effects of cannabis) That is why this topic has come into discussion in different political, economical, scientific and medical forums.\n\nAccording to the World Health Organization 28.2% of the population were regularly smokers out of people aged 15 or above.\n\nIt has been forbidden to smoke in 5 meter radius from the entrance of primary schools, secondary schools, universities, dormitories and other higher education institutions. Furthermore, it is not allowed to smoke in public transport, pubs, bars, restaurants and in national institutions.\n\nIt is also forbidden for children under the age of 18 to buy cigarettes.\n\nThe sale of tobacco is limited to state-controlled (but privately owned) tobacco shops called \"Nemzeti Dohánybolt\" (\"National Tobacco Shop\").\n\nIn 2013 the World Health Organization awarded Prime Minister Viktor Orbán in \"accomplishments in the area of tobacco control\".\n\nIn Hungary several types of cigarettes can be found. The three big tobacco companies in Hungary have producing facilities in the country.\n\nThere are also many import products on the market.\n\n"}
{"id": "10962251", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10962251", "title": "Structured Clinical Interview for DSM-IV", "text": "Structured Clinical Interview for DSM-IV\n\nThe Structured Clinical Interview for DSM-IV Axis I Disorders (SCID-I) is a diagnostic exam used to determine DSM-IV Axis I disorders (major mental disorders). The SCID-\"II\" is a diagnostic exam used to determine Axis II disorders (personality disorders). There are at least 700 published studies in which the SCID was the diagnostic instrument used. Major parts of the SCID have been translated into other languages, including Danish, French, German, Greek, Hebrew, Italian, Portuguese, Spanish, Swedish, Turkish, and Zulu.\n\nAn Axis I SCID assessment with a psychiatric patient usually takes between 1 and 2 hours, depending on the complexity of the subject's psychiatric history and their ability to clearly describe episodes of current and past symptoms. A SCID with a non-psychiatric patient takes 1/2 hour to 1-1/2 hours. (See editions below.) A SCID-II personality assessment takes about 1/2 to 1 hour.\n\nThe instrument was designed to be administered by a mental health professional, for example a psychologist or psychiatrist. This must be someone who has relevant professional training and has had experience performing unstructured, open-ended question, diagnostic evaluations. However, for the purposes of some research studies, non-clinician research assistants, who have extensive experience with the study population in question, and who have demonstrated competence, have been trained to use the SCID. The less clinical experience and specific education the potential interviewer has had, the more training is required.\n\nThere are several editions of the SCID-I addressed to different audiences:\n\nThe SCID-II for DSM-IV comes in a single edition.\n\nThe first version of the SCID for DSM-5, intended for researchers, was released on 24 November 2014. American Psychiatric Association Publishing offers four versions the Structured Clinical Interview for DSM-5 (SCID-5), and pricing varies according to intended use.\n\nThe DSM-III SCID had one edition per axis: SCID-P/SCID-NP and SCID-II.\n\nThe reliability and validity of the SCID for DSM-III-R has been reported in several published studies. With regard to reliability, the range in reliability is enormous, depending on the type of the sample and research methodology (i.e., joint vs. test-retest, multi-site vs. single site with raters who have worked together, etc.)\n\nThe \"Structured Clinical Interview for DSM-IV\" Dissociative disorders (SCID-D) is widely used to diagnose dissociative disorders, especially in research settings. This interview takes about 30 minutes to 1.5 hours, depending on individual's experiences. The SCID-D has been translated into Dutch and is used in the Netherlands.\n\n"}
{"id": "1151047", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1151047", "title": "The Biggest Loser (U.S. TV series)", "text": "The Biggest Loser (U.S. TV series)\n\nThe Biggest Loser is an American competition reality show that has run on NBC for 17 seasons, from 2004 to 2016. The show features obese or overweight contestants competing to win a cash prize by losing the highest percentage of weight relative to their initial weight. The show has not been officially cancelled, but no new seasons have been announced.\n\n\"The Biggest Loser\" has been fairly popular for some of its run, ranking among the top 50 shows in the United States from 2004 to 2005 and again from 2009 to 2011. It has also attracted significant controversy, including both general critiques of its approach of rapid weight loss, and specific allegations that contestants have been malnourished, dehydrated, overexerted and, in some cases, been given weight loss pills, in order for them to lose as much weight as possible.\n\nThe \"Biggest Loser\" format has been highly popular around the world, spawning over 30 international adaptations, some of which remain on the air.\n\nEach season of \"The Biggest Loser\" starts with a weigh-in to determine the contestants' starting weights, which serve as the baseline for determining the overall winner.\n\nThe contestants are grouped into teams of three, each wearing separate colored T-shirts. Depending on the season a team may work with a specific trainer or all trainers may work with all contestants. The trainers are responsible (in conjunction with medical personnel retained by the show) for designing comprehensive workout and nutrition plans and teaching them to the contestants. However, the contestants are individually responsible for implementing the principles taught.\n\nDuring an episode, various challenges and temptations (see below) are featured. Those who win a particular challenge are given special privileges, such as a weight advantage for the next weigh-in or even full immunity from being voted off the show.\n\nEach week culminates in another weigh-in to determine which team has lost the most weight for that week, in percentage of total weight lost. The team that has lost the least percentage during that week (known as \"falling below the yellow line\", which refers to a line featured on a video screen showing the cutoff between safety and being at-risk) will have one member voted off (unless the team consists of only one remaining member, in which case there is no vote). The vote is usually made by the other teams, though some episodes feature one team making the decision alone. Some episodes feature a second, \"red line\"; if a contestant falls below the red line the contestant is automatically off the show with no vote. Other episodes allow for the contestants, if successfully meeting a goal at the weigh-in, to all receive immunity for the week.\n\nWhen the number of contestants has shrunk to a predetermined smaller number (unknown to the contestants), the teams are dissolved and the contestants compete one-on-one against each other.\n\nThe season finale features both the contestants remaining on the show and those sent home early; the latter are brought back for the final show. Those sent home early compete for a smaller prize while those on the show compete for a larger prize and the title of \"The Biggest Loser\".\n\nEpisodes are typically two hours long. Some episodes have been aired in a shortened one-hour format to accommodate adjacent network programming such as \"The Voice\" and the State of the Union address. Each episode features some, but not all, of the following activities (some contestants may not participate in an activity with physical requirements if placed on medical restrictions):\n\n\nAccording to LiveScience.com, \"physicians and nutritionists worry the show's focus on competitive weight loss is, at best, counterproductive and, at worst, dangerous\". Contestants on the show lose upwards of 10 pounds per week (in the very first week, some contestants have lost 20–30+ pounds in that one week alone), whereas the established medical guidelines for safe weight loss are between 1 and 2 pounds per week. This is true even though that weight-loss rate originates from an examination of the database from the National Weight Control Registry, where members have lost a minimum of 30 pounds and maintained that weight loss for a minimum of a year. So while researchers did find a correlation between that rate, on average, with members of the Registry, all this correlation can mean—if there is any causal correlation at all (there is no control group) -- is that it is more likely, on average, for someone to be successful at losing a large amount of weight, and more successful at maintaining that weight loss. There is no way of stating whether this rate is more \"healthy\" than any other rate, simply because (a) there is no comparison with any other rate, and not even any comparison between disease or mortality rates of members of this Registry and any other random group.\n\nOther health writers take it even further, suggesting that everything from the shows dietary guidelines to workout routines are completely flawed.\n\nNutritionist Dr. Barry Sears sums up the wellness paradox: \"First, eating less can cause stress to the system causing more hunger. Second, the more people exercise, the hungrier they become.\" Dr. Sears continues by claiming that \"even with the most intense training, people are unlikely to add more than five pounds of muscle in 12 weeks of weight training. The reason viewers see their muscles emerging as the show goes on is because as the layer of fat surrounding the muscles is lost, muscles become more visible. Those muscles were always there but covered by a mass of fat tissue.\n\nAt the end of every telecast, the following disclaimer is shown:\n\nDespite this claim of supervision, however, all contestants are required to sign a waiver that states: \"no warranty, representation or guarantee has been made as to the qualifications or credentials of the medical professionals who examine me or perform any procedures on me in connection with my participation in the series, or their ability to diagnose medical conditions that may affect my fitness to participate in the series\".\n\nThe weight-loss regimen used in the show—severe caloric restriction combined with up to six hours a day of strenuous exercise—involves risks including a weakening of the heart muscle, irregular heartbeat and dangerous reductions in potassium and electrolytes. Contestants, regardless of their weight, are required to certify that they believe they are \"in excellent physical, emotional, psychological and mental health\".\n\n\"\" included a one-mile foot race in its first week, an event that led to the hospitalization of two of its contestants; Rob Huizenga, the show's medical consultant, when asked about the foot race said that \"If we had it to do over, we wouldn’t [have done] it\" and noted that in response, the show's producers have \"changed a lot of the way [they] do things\" (including the close monitoring of contestants’ body temperatures during exercise).\n\nOne attempt to create a more healthy environment after Season 8's dangerous foot race was to include an Endless Pool for low-impact cardio. This helped contestants to lose weight in a healthier and safer way than some previous exercise routines on earlier seasons.\n\nBecause the show is a contest that involves eliminations from it, some contestants are encouraged to take risks that endanger their health. Ryan C. Benson, the winner of the program’s first season, publicly admitted that \"he dropped some of the weight by fasting and dehydrating himself to the point that he was urinating blood\". Also since the show Benson has regained all of his weight, but 10–12 lbs. In 2009, Kai Hibbard (runner-up from the third season) told \"The New York Times\" that \"she and other contestants would drink as little water as possible in the 24 hours before a weigh-in\" and would \"work out in as much clothing as possible\" when the cameras were off. She further stated that two weeks after the show ended, she had regained about 31 pounds, mostly from staying hydrated. In a June 2010 interview, Hibbard said, \"I do still struggle [with disordered eating]. I do. My husband says I’m still afraid of food... I’m still pretty messed up from the show.\"\n\nIn a July 2011 press conference with the Television Critics Association, comedian and actor Jerry Lewis was critical of the competitive nature of \"The Biggest Loser\", claiming that the show is about contestants \"knocking their brains out trying to see how we beat the fat lady at 375 pounds, and in four months she's going to be 240. Who cares? It's ridiculous.\"\n\nAccording to a report by \"The New York Post\", California authorities inquired the show due to allegations of doping contestants. The show dismissed these allegations as false and without merit. The show is under internal investigation as of July 2018.\n\nIn 2016, the results of a long term study by the US National Institute of Health (NIH) were released that documented the weight gain and loss of contestants in Season 8, which aired in 2009. The study found that most of the 16 contestants regained their weight, and in some case gained more than before they entered the contest. Their metabolisms had slowed to the point where they were burning hundreds of calories a day less than other people of their new, reduced, size. The \"New York Times\" reported: \"What shocked the researchers was what happened next: As the years went by and the numbers on the scale climbed, the contestants’ metabolisms did not recover... It was as if their bodies were intensifying their effort to pull the contestants back to their original weight.\" The article quoted Dr. Michael Rosenbaum who said, \"The difficulty in keeping weight off reflects biology, not a pathological lack of willpower.\"\n\nAfter the study results were revealed, former contestants demanded NBC cancel the show.\n\nSeasons two and three of \"The Biggest Loser\" have been filmed at the Hummingbird Nest Ranch. The ranch is an equestrian estate in Simi Valley, California, northwest of Los Angeles. Recent seasons have been filmed at King Gillette Ranch on Mulholland Highway near Malibu Creek State Park.\n\nGiven to the person losing the most percentage of body weight under the eliminated contestants.\n\nA spin-off of \"The Biggest Loser\", \"The Biggest Loser: Special Edition\" features a team of people competing against another team, with each competition airing in two one-hour episodes. They spend 11 days on the ranch working with Bob and Jillian and then return home to continue to lose weight. The announced groups included \"family vs. family\", where two families with restaurants of different cultures competed to lose weight, \"engaged couple vs. engaged couple\", and \"Marines vs. Navy\". Each episode featured one of the mini-competitions from start to finish.\n\n\"Losing It with Jillian\" was a reality program that debuted on NBC on June 1, 2010. The spin-off involved former Biggest Loser trainer Jillian Michaels helping families lose weight in one week. The series was cancelled after 7 episodes.\n\nThe following table contains records for the American version of \"The Biggest Loser\". Only records which were officially announced on the show are included.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18769057", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18769057", "title": "UCLPartners", "text": "UCLPartners\n\nUCLPartners is an academic health science centre located in London, England. It is the largest academic health science centre in the world, treats more than 1.5 million patients each year, has a combined annual turnover of around £2 billion and includes around 3,500 scientists, senior researchers and consultants.\n\nThe members of UCLPartners include Barts Health NHS Trust, Great Ormond Street Hospital for Children NHS Trust, Moorfields Eye Hospital NHS Foundation Trust, Queen Mary University of London, Royal Free London NHS Foundation Trust, University College London (UCL), The Tavistock and Portman NHS Foundation Trust and University College London Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust.\n\nIn July 2007 the then Health Minister Lord Darzi recommended the establishment of a number of academic health science centres in the UK.\n\nGreat Ormond Street Hospital for Children NHS Trust, Moorfields Eye Hospital NHS Foundation Trust, Royal Free Hampstead NHS Trust (now Royal Free London NHS Foundation Trust), UCL and University College London Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust announced their intention to form UCLPartners in August 2008. In February 2009 Professor Sir Cyril Chantler was appointed as the first Chair of UCLPartners and it was officially designated as one of the UK’s first academic health science centres by the UK Department of Health in March 2009.\n\nKey strategic appointments were made in summer 2009, including Professor David Fish as Managing Director and seven Programme Directors. An alliance between UCL, UCLPartners, Yale University and Yale-New Haven Hospital was announced in October 2009. The UCLPartners academic strategy and key research priorities were agreed in November 2009. In October 2011 it was announced that Barts and The London NHS Trust and Queen Mary, University of London had agreed to join UCLPartners, making it the largest academic health science centre in the world.\n\nBarking, Havering and Redbridge University Hospitals NHS Trust agreed to join UCLPartners in April 2012.\n\nIn May 2013 UCLPartners was officially designated as one of 15 Academic Health Science Networks established by the NHS in England.\n\nIn April 2014 UCLPartners established MedCity, an initiative to develop the life sciences cluster in London and the wider \"golden triangle\", in partnership with the Mayor of London, King's Health Partners, Imperial College Academic Health Science Centre and the Universities of Cambridge and Oxford.\n\nThe governing body of UCLPartners is UCLPartners Ltd, a company limited by guaranteed. The governance arrangements consist of:\n\n\nAccording to the independent Thomson ISI Essential Science Indicators, which assesses organisations according to the number of highly cited publications produced, UCLPartners is ranked: first in the world for research into ophthalmology; second in the world (and first in Europe) for neuroscience; first in Europe for clinical medicine; and second in Europe for immunology.\n\nUCLPartners’ research priorities are divided into the following 11 key programme areas:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38545126", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38545126", "title": "Water supply terrorism", "text": "Water supply terrorism\n\nWater supply terrorism involves intentional sabotage to a water supply system, through chemical or biological warfare or infrastructural sabotage. Throughout military history and the history of terrorism, water supply \nattacks have been perpetrated by eco-terrorist and political groups, intending to scare, cause death, or drought.\n\nIn 1984 members of the Rajneeshee religious cult contaminate a city water supply tank in The Dalles, Oregon, using Salmonella and infecting 750.\n\nIn 1992 The Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) put lethal concentrations of potassium cyanide in the water tanks of a Turkish Air Force compound in Istanbul.\n\nIn 2000, workers at the Cellatex chemical plant in northern France dumped 5000 liters of sulfuric acid into a tributary of the Meuse River when they were denied workers’ benefits.\n\nIn 2000 in Queensland, Australia, police arrested a man for using a computer and radio transmitter to take control of the Maroochy Shire wastewater system and release sewage into parks, rivers and property.\n\nDespite the fact that it is impractical and very unlikely to produce any effect at large scale, during the 1960s a great deal of attention was paid to the notion that counter-culture figures could intoxicate a whole city by putting a small dose of LSD in the water supply.\n\nOn 19 March 1966 \"London Life\" ran an interview claiming that anyone could take control of London in under eight hours by putting 'acid' in the water system. Dr Donald Johnson claimed: “It is quite feasible that LSD could be used to take over a city or even a country. I agree if it were put into reservoirs, it would disable people sufficiently for an enemy to take control.” \nOn November 1966 \"Vue magazine\" ran “Why They Had to Outlaw LSD”, in which writer WH Carr claimed that “[A] few ounces of it, dumped in the water supply of a major city, could shake up millions.” \n\nCounter-culture icon Abbie Hoffman threatened to put LSD in Chicago's water-supply to protest the Vietnam War during the Democratic convention.\n\nIn Lusaka, Zambia, in 1999, a bomb destroyed the main water pipeline, cutting off water for the city 3 million.\n\nIn 2001 Water flow to Kumanovo (population 100,000) was cut off for 12 days in conflict between ethnic Albanians and Macedonian forces.\n\nThe Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia (FARC) detonated a bomb inside a tunnel in the Chingaza Dam, which provides most of Bogotá’s water.\n\nFour incendiary devices were found in the pumping station of a Michigan water-bottling plant. The Earth Liberation Front (ELF) claimed responsibility, accusing Ice Mountain Water Company of stealing water for profit.\n\nIn 2003 Jordanian authorities arrested Iraqi agents in connection with a failed plot to poison the water supply that serves American troops in the eastern Jordanian desert near the border with Iraq.\n\nIn 2006 Tamil Tiger rebels cut the water supply to government-held villages in northeastern Sri Lanka. Sri Lankan government forces then launched attacks on the reservoir, declaring the Tamil actions to be terrorism.\n\nThe draining of the Mesopotamian Marshes occurred in Iraq and to a smaller degree in Iran between the 1950s and 1990s to clear large areas of the marshes in the Tigris-Euphrates river system. Formerly covering an area of around , the main sub-marshes, the Hawizeh, Central, and Hammar Marshes were all drained at different times for different reasons. Initial draining of the Central Marshes was intended to reclaim land for agriculture but later all three marshes became a tool of war and revenge.\n\nMany international organizations such as the U.N. Human Rights Commission, the Supreme Council of the Islamic Revolution in Iraq (SCIRI), the International Wildfowl and Wetlands Research Bureau, and Middle East Watch have described the draining as a political attempt to force the Ma'dan people out of the area through water diversion tactics.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13766136", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13766136", "title": "Water testing", "text": "Water testing\n\nWater testing is a broad description for various procedures used to analyze water quality. Millions of water quality tests are carried out daily to fulfill regulatory requirements and to maintain safety.\n\nTesting may be performed to evaluate:\n\nGovernment regulations related to water testing and water quality for some major countries is given below.\n\nThe Ministry of Environmental Protection of the People's Republic of China is the nation's environmental protection department charged with the task of protecting China's air, water, and land from pollution and contamination. Directly under the State Council, it is empowered and required by law to implement environmental policies and enforce environmental laws and regulations. Complementing its regulatory role, it funds and organizes research and development. \"See\" Ministry of Environmental Protection of the People's Republic of China.\n\nIn late 2009, a survey was carried out by China Ministry of Housing and Urban-Rural Development to assess the water quality of urban supplies in China's cities, which revealed that \"at least 1,000\" water treatment plants out of more than 4,000 plants surveyed at the county level and above failed to comply with government requirements. The survey results were never formally released to the public, but in 2012, China's Century Weekly published the leaked survey data. In response, Wang Xuening, a health ministry official, released figures derived from a pilot monitoring scheme in 2011 and suggested that 80% of China's urban tap water was up to standard.\n\nChina's new drinking water standards involve 106 indicators. Of China's 35 major cities, only 40% of cities have the capacity to test for all 106 indicators. The department in charge of local water and the health administration department will enter into a discussion to determine results for more than 60 of the new measures; hence it is not required to test the water using every indicator. The grading of water quality is based on an overall average of 95% to fulfill government requirements. The frequency of water quality inspections at water treatment plants is twice yearly.\n\nEstablished in 1964, the Pakistan Council of Research in Water Resources aims to conduct, organize, coordinate and promote research in all aspects of water resources. As a national research organization, it undertakes and promotes applied and basic research in different disciplines of water sector.\n\nIn March 2013, Minister for Science and Technology Mir Changez Khan Jamali notified the National Assembly that groundwater samples collected revealed that only 15-18% samples were deemed safe for drinking both in urban and rural areas in Pakistan. The Ministry has created 24 Water Quality Testing Laboratories across Pakistan, developed and commercialized water quality test kits, water filters, water disinfection tablets and drinking water treatment sachets, conducted training for 2,660 professionals of water supply agencies and surveyed 10,000 water supply schemes out of a grand total of 12,000 schemes.\n\nThe Drinking Water Inspectorate is a section of Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs set up to regulate the public water supply companies in England and Wales. Water testing in England and Wales can be conducted at the environmental health office at the local authority. \"See\" Drinking Water Inspectorate.\n\nThe U.S. Department of Homeland Security is a cabinet department of the United States federal government, created in response to the September 11 attacks, and with the primary responsibilities of protecting the United States of America and U.S. territories (including protectorates) from and responding to terrorist attacks, man-made accidents, and natural disasters. \"See\" United States Department of Homeland Security.\n\nThe Homeland Security Presidential Directive 7 designates the Environmental Protection Agency as the sector-specific agency for the water sector's critical infrastructure protection activities. All Environmental Protection Agency activities related to water security are carried out in consultation with the Department of Homeland Security. Possible threats to water quality include contamination with deadly agents, such as cyanide, and physical attacks like the release of toxic gaseous chemicals.\n\nThe principal U.S. federal laws governing water testing are the Safe Drinking Water Act and the Clean Water Act. The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) issues regulations under each law specifying analytical test methods. EPA' s annual \"Regulatory Agenda\" sets a schedule for specific objectives on improving its oversight of water testing.\n\nUnder the Safe Drinking Water Act, public water systems are required to regularly monitor their treated water for contaminants. Water samples must be analyzed using EPA-approved testing methods, by laboratories that are certified by EPA or a state agency.\n\nThe 2013 revised total coliform rule and the 1989 total coliform rule are the only microbial drinking water regulations that apply to all public water systems. The revised rule highlights the frequency and timing of microbial testing by water systems based on population served, system type, and source water type. It also places a legal limit on the level for \"Escherichia coli.\" Potential health threats must be disclosed to EPA or the appropriate state agency, and public notification is required in some circumstances.\n\nMethods for measuring acute toxicity usually take between 24 and 96 hours to identify contaminants in water supplies.\n\nAll facilities in the United States that discharge wastewater to surface waters (e.g. rivers, lakes or coastal waters} must obtain a permit under the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System, a Clean Water Act program administered by EPA and state agencies. The facilities covered include sewage treatment plants, industrial and commercial plants, military bases and other facilities. Most permittees are required to regularly collect wastewater samples and analyze them for compliance with permit requirements, and report the results either to EPA or the state agency.\n\nPrivate wells are not regulated by the federal government. In general, private well owners are responsible for testing their wells. Some state or local governments regulate well construction and may require well testing.\n\nPeer-reviewed test methods have been published by government agencies private research organizations and international standards organizations for ambient water, wastewater and drinking water. Approved published methods must be used when testing to demonstrate compliance with regulatory requirements.\n\nThe Energy Policy Act of 2005 created a loophole that exempts companies drilling for natural gas from disclosing the chemicals involved in fracturing operations that would normally be required under federal clean water laws. The loophole is commonly known as the \"Halliburton loophole\" because Dick Cheney, the former chief executive officer of Halliburton, was reportedly instrumental in its passage. Even though the Safe Drinking Water Act excludes hydraulic fracturing from the Underground Injection Control regulation in section 1421 (d)(1), the use of diesel fuel during hydraulic fracturing is still regulated. In addition, there may be additional regulations for hydraulic fracturing by state oil and gas agencies. States or EPA have the authority under the Clean Water Act to regulate discharge of produced waters from hydraulic fracturing operations.\n\nIn December 2011, federal environment officials scientifically linked underground water pollution with hydraulic fracturing for the first time in central Wyoming. EPA stated that the water supply contained at least 10 compounds known to be used in fracking fluids. The findings in the report contradicted arguments by the drilling industry on the safety of the fracturing process, such as the hydrologic pressure that naturally forces fluids downwards instead of upwards. EPA also commented that the pollution from 33 abandoned oil and gas waste pits were responsible for some degree of minor groundwater pollution in the vicinity.\n\nIn January 2013, the Alaska Oil and Gas Conservation Commission, which is responsible for overseeing oil and gas production in Alaska, proposed new rules for regulating hydraulic fracturing in the state, which contains over two billion barrels of shale oil (second only to the Bakkan) and over 80 trillion cubic feet of natural gas. Companies will be required to conduct water testing at least 90 days prior to and up to 120 days after hydraulically fracturing a well, which includes analysis of pH, alkalinity, total dissolved solids, and total petroleum hydrocarbons. The proposed rules necessitate disclosure of the identity and volume of chemicals used in fracturing fluid. \"See\" Alaska Oil and Gas Conservation Commission.\n\nIn February 2013, the state of Illinois introduced the Illinois Hydraulic Fracturing Regulatory Act, H.B. 2615, which imposes strict controls on fracturing companies, such as chemical disclosure requirements and water testing requirements. The bill includes baseline and periodic post-frack testing of potentially affected waters, such as surface water and groundwater sources near fracturing wells, to identify contamination associated with hydraulic fracturing. Fracturing wells will be closed if fracturing fluid is released outside of the shale rock formation being fractured.\n\nDetectable levels of pharmaceuticals and personal care products, in the parts per trillion, are found in many public drinking water systems in the US as many water treatment plants lack the technological know-how to remove these chemical compounds from raw water. There are now increasing worries about how these compounds degrade and react in the environment, during the treatment process, inside our bodies, and the long-term exposure to multiple contaminants at low levels. Out of over 80,000 chemicals registered with the EPA, the US federal drinking water rules mandate testing for only 83 chemicals, which calls for increased monitoring of pharmaceuticals on the presence and concentrations of chemical compounds in rivers, streams, and treated tap water. As traditional waste water regulations and treatment systems target microorganisms and nutrients, there are no federal standards for pharmaceuticals in drinking water or waste water.\n\nIn May 2012, the Environmental Protection Agency released a new list of contaminants, known as the unregulated contaminant monitoring regulation 3 (UCMR3), that will be part of municipal water systems testing starting this year and continuing through 2015. The UCMR3 testing will help municipal water system operators measure the occurrence and exposure of contamination levels that may endanger human health. The State Hygienic Laboratory at the University of Iowa is the only state environmental public health laboratory that has been certified and approved to test for all 28 chemical contaminants on the new list.\n\nIn March 2013, the Environmental Protection Agency developed a new rapid water quality test that provides accurate same day results of contamination levels, which marks a significant improvement from current tests that require at least 24 hours to obtain results. The new test will help authorities determine whether beaches are safe for swimming to keep the public from falling sick and could help prevent beaches from being closed.\n\nThe International Maritime Organization, known as the Inter-Governmental Maritime Consultative Organization until 1982, was established in Geneva in 1948, and came into force ten years later, meeting for the first time in 1959. \"See\" International Maritime Organization.\n\nThe International Maritime Organization has been at the forefront of the international community by taking the lead in addressing the transfer of aquatic invasive species through shipping. On 13 February 2004, the International Convention for the Control and Management of Ships' Ballast Water and Sediments was adopted by consensus at a diplomatic conference held at the International Maritime Organization headquarters in London. According to the convention, all ships are required to implement a ballast water and sediments management plan. All ships will have to carry a Ballast Water Record Book and will be required to carry out ballast water management procedures to a given standard. Parties to the Convention are given the option to take additional measures which are subject to criteria set out in the Convention and to International Maritime Organization guidelines. Ballast water management is subjected to the ballast water exchange standard and the ballast water performance standard. Ships performing ballast water exchange shall do so with an efficiency of 95 per cent volumetric exchange of ballast water and ships using a ballast water management system (BWMS) shall meet a performance standard based on agreed numbers of organisms per unit of volume. The Convention will enter into force 12 months after ratification by 30 States, representing 35 per cent of world merchant shipping tonnage. \"See\" Ballast water discharge and the environment.\n\nThe EarthEcho Water Challenge is an international education and outreach program that generates public awareness and involvement in safeguarding water resources globally by engaging citizens to conduct water testing of local water bodies. Participants learn how to conduct simple water quality tests, analyze common indicators of water health, specifically dissolved oxygen, pH, temperature, and turbidity. The program was originally called \"World Water Monitoring Day\" and later \"World Water Monitoring Challenge\", and was established in 2003. EarthEcho International encourages participants to conduct their monitoring activities as part of the \"EarthEcho Water Challenge\" during any period between March 22 (World Water Day) and December of each year.\n\nAs of 2009, the global water test market, which includes in-house, small commercial and large laboratory groups, is approximately US$3.6 billion. The global market for low-end test equipment is roughly $300–400 million. The global market for in-line monitors is approximately $100–130 million.\n\nKey products include analytical systems, instrumentation, and reagents for water quality and safety analysis. Reagents are chemical testing compounds that identify presence of chlorine, pH, alkalinity, turbidity and other metrics.\n\nThe equipment market comprises low-end, onsite field testing equipment, in-line monitors, and high-end testing laboratory instruments. High-end lab equipment are Mass Spectrometry devices that conduct organic analysis, using Gas Chromatography and Liquid Chromatography, or metals analysis, using Inductively Coupled Plasma.\n\nSeveral trends to monitor include digital sensor plug-and-play techniques and luminescent dissolved oxygen meters replacing sensors.\n\nThe water test market is approximately two-thirds equipment and one-third consumables. Reagents are used with each test and generate recurring revenue for companies. Aftermarket maintenance agreements, operator training and parts replacement help to ensure resources are maximized. The market leader with an estimated 21% market share, Danaher, is able to reap EBIT margins in the high-teens-to-low-20% on test equipment, but can command 40%+ margins on the water test reagents. \"See\" Freebie marketing.\n\nCompanies tend to employ the \"direct-to-end-user\" model for most products, but may also try to sell low-end equipment via the Internet to reduce distribution costs.\n\nPricing depends on application and type of product. Instruments range from as low as $10 to thousands of dollars.\n\nThe low-end test equipment is dominated by few large suppliers, notably Germany's Loviband and Merck, DelAgua Water Testing of the UK who work globally, and US-based LaMotte. Major manufacturers of in-line equipment include Siemens and Danaher's Hach. Thermo Scientific and Waters are key producers of high-end test equipment.\n\nThe end markets include municipal water plants, industrial users, such as beverage and electronics, and environmental agencies, such as the United States Geological Survey.\n\nThere are two main types of laboratories: commercial and in-house.\n\nIn-house laboratories are usually present in municipal water and waste water facilities, breweries and pharmaceutical manufacturing plants. They account for roughly half of all tests run annually.\n\nMost of the commercial laboratories are single-site firms that only service institutions in the geographical region. The employee head count for each laboratory is usually fewer than five people, and revenues are under $1 million. These laboratories account for one quarter of all tests. There are several major laboratory groups, such as UK-based Inspicio and Australia-based ALS, which account for another quarter of all tests.\n\nThe conventional impression is that private water systems, which sources groundwater from rural areas, produce higher water quality compared to public water systems. Studies have demonstrated that groundwater is vulnerable to antibiotic-resistant bacteria, which necessitates frequent water testing. However, critics like Charrois argue that inconvenience and time constraint impede regular testing in private wells and water systems, which poses risk of poor water quality to consumers.\n\nIn 1998, Sydney, Australia's water supply, 85% controlled by Suez Lyonnaise des Eaux until 2021, contained high concentrations of parasites Giardia and Cryptosporidium. However, the public was not immediately informed of the water contamination when it had first occurred. \"See\" Suez (company) and 1998 Sydney water crisis.\n\nIn Ontario, Canada, the Harris government introduced the \"Common Sense Revolution\" to cut the large provincial deficit accumulated under the previous Rae government, implementing major cuts to the environment budget, privatizing water testing labs, deregulating water protection infrastructure, and firing trained water testing experts. \"See\" Mike Harris.\n\nIn 1999, in spite of a Canadian federal government study that found a third of Ontario's rural wells were contaminated with E. coli, the Ontario government dropped testing for E.coli from its Drinking Water Surveillance Program and subsequently closed the program in 2000. In June 2000, there was a wave of E. coli outbreaks in several communities in rural Ontario, where at least seven people died from consuming the water in Walkerton. The private testing company, A&L Laboratories, detected E. coli in the water but failed to disclose the contamination to provincial authorities due to a loophole in the \"common sense\" regulation. A&L Laboratories claimed that the test results were \"confidential intellectual property\" and therefore belonged only to the \"client\", who was the authorities of Walkerton who lacked the training for proper assessment. \"See\" Escherichia coli.\n\nIn 2011, Hong Kong Education Secretary Michael Suen was diagnosed with Legionnaires' disease. The bacteria contamination stemmed from Hong Kong's HK$5.5 billion government headquarters site, where traces of the bacteria were found to be up to 14 times above acceptable levels.\n\nIn March 2013, French consumer magazine 60 Millions de Consommateurs and non-governmental organization Fondation France Libertés conducted an investigation that found traces of pesticides and prescription drugs, including a medicine for breast cancer treatment, in almost one in five French brands of bottled water, which are commonly touted as cleaner, healthier and purer alternatives to French tap water. Out of 47 brands of bottled water commonly available in French supermarkets, 10 brands contained \"residues from drugs or pesticides\".\n\nIn March 2013, almost 200 water fountains in Jersey City public schools were found to contain lead above regulatory standards, where one of the water fountains had lead contamination at levels more than 800 times the EPA's standard. The situation warrants concern because exposure to lead in water could lead to mental retardation for children.\n\nIn March 2013, a defense lawyer asked a federal judge to dismiss charges against the owner of Mississippi Environmental Analytical Laboratories Inc. accused of falsifying records on industrial waste water samples. According to the indictment, Borg Warner Emissions Systems Inc. hired Tennie White, the owner of the laboratory, to test waste water discharge at its car parts plant in Water Valley. White is accused of creating three reports in 2009 that indicated tests were completed when they were not. The motion to dismiss was based on the lawyer's argument that the documents referred to in the indictment were not signed and were not submitted to a government agency.\n\nWater quality testing for private wells in Chemung County is affected by budget cuts.\n\n"}
{"id": "46502153", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46502153", "title": "Women in nursing", "text": "Women in nursing\n\nHistorically, women have made up a large majority of the profession and academic discipline of nursing. Women's nursing roles include both caring for patients and making sure that the wards and equipment are clean. Currently, females make up the majority of the field of nursing. Statistics show that in 2005, \"women comprised 92.3% of Registered Nurses (RNs). Additionally, registered nurses are projected to create the second largest number of new jobs among all occupations between 2004 and 2014, increasing by 29.4%.\"\n\nNurses in the past were required to work long days and care for many patients, for very little pay. In addition, the typical university setting where nurses learned the work of the trade was not in existence back then. Instead, nurses learned the trade while working in the field. Another difference was that nursing students were called probationers. As probationers, they were required to follow the strict rules and regulations that were set forth by the institution. Additionally, probationers were required to follow all physicians’ orders without question and perform various household duties. After learning how to take orders, probationers were then sent to the operating room for a 6-week rotation. During that 6-week period, probationers learned how to inventory sterile bandages, keep operating room meticulously clean and provide sterile water for surgeons during surgery. Upon completion of their training, probationers turned into nurses. \nAs nurses, some of their roles included providing patient education concerning nutrition and child related illnesses when needed. In general, nurses were the ones responsible for bathing patients, inserting catheters, dispensing medications, administering enemas, keeping the ward clean, and making sure that everything was documented correctly. During that time, there were no nurses' aides available to help with the daily care of patients. Thusly, all tasks fell upon the nurse. To add to that long list of tasks, a nurse was also responsible for preparing any holistic medications that were needed at the time to treat the various alignments that patients presented with. In the present time, holistic medications are hardly used, and any medications that are required are generally handled and prepared by a pharmacy. This is with the expectation of some intravenous (IV), antibiotics, and insulin preparations that the nurse will prepare on the floor (after receiving an order from a doctor). Listed below are more duties of nurses in these time periods.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nDuring this time nursing uniforms were very similar to \"servants’ uniforms, which consisted of a full black or printed gown with a white gathered or banded cap and a white apron.\" Around 1840, the field of nursing gained more respect and nurses were trained more.  With this said the uniforms worn at this time started to change from the servant uniforms to the more classic \"ladylike gowns with white aprons and caps to indicate that they were nurses.\" During this time a very influential nurse started their career in the field of nursing; that nurse was Florence Nightingale.  She brought many different things to the field.  For instance she helped to make the field a more respectable one with the introduction of both better schooling and uniforms.  The improvements in uniforms helped us to determine the rank of all the different nurses practicing.  This was accomplished by having nurses wear a hat with a different color band depending on their rank. \"Fresh nurse students would wear ribbon bands of pink, blue, or other pastel colors. Senior nurses and nursing teachers would wear black ribbon bands to indicate seniority.\"\n\nThis period brought about the start of change in the uniforms by adding white bibs and pockets to the dresses. In addition, large hats were worn that resembled a nun’s hat and veil. These types of uniforms stayed in practice up until the First World War, when it was decided that the uniforms needed to be revamped to make them more practical and improve nurses' efficiency. For instance, the sleeves on the uniforms were changed so that they rolled up, the bulky aprons were removed, and the shirts shortened. All these things helped with convenience and allowed nurses to function better, and were often coupled with shoulder-covering capes, which were usually navy or dark blue in colour on the outside with red lining on the inside.\n\nBy the 1950s, paper hats and simple folded hats replaced the large, elaborate crown-like caps that were worn by nurses during the First World War. The simple paper hats were more comfortable. The policy to use hats to denote seniority level was abolished, since the morality of nurses was affected by the discrimination. Dresses also evolved, since no one has the time to launder elaborately tailored clothing anymore. Dresses became less form fitting and were easy to wash, iron and wear.\" \n\nBy the 1970s with the appearance of males in the field wearing scrubs, the female uniforms once again changed, they \"became less gendered\". The hat was lost and uniforms become less formal. In addition, they started to resemble normal clothing. By the 1980s, the cap and the cloth apron was gone. To replace the cloth apron, nurses started to wear disposable ones.\n\nNurses today continue to wear scrubs with many different colors and patterns available. The scrubs usually consist of drawn string pants and a V-neck top.  The formal uniform (i.e. color and patterns allowed) though varies by policy.  In some facilities it is required that the different types of employees all wear different color scrubs so that their specific job title can be determined by their scrub color. For example, \"nurses in one color, techs in another, etc.\" Additionally \"some hospitals are even going back to requiring that nurses wear white, though they haven't yet returned to skirts, hats, and stockings.\"\n\n\nSee List of nurses.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24300979", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24300979", "title": "World Suicide Prevention Day", "text": "World Suicide Prevention Day\n\nWorld Suicide Prevention Day (WSPD) is an awareness day observed on 10 September every year, in order to provide worldwide commitment and action to prevent suicides, with various activities around the world since 2003. The International Association for Suicide Prevention (IASP) collaborates with the World Health Organization (WHO) and the World Federation for Mental Health (WFMH) to host World Suicide Prevention Day. In 2011 an estimated 40 countries held awareness events to mark the occasion. According to WHO's Mental health Atlas released in 2014, no low-income country reported having a national suicide prevention strategy, while less than 10% of lower-middle income countries, and almost a third of upper-middle and high-income countries had.\n\nOn its first event in 2003, the 1999 World Health Organization's global suicide prevention initiative is mentioned with regards to the main strategy for its implementation, requiring:\n\nAs of recent WHO releases, challenges represented by social stigma, the taboo to openly discuss suicide, and low availability of data are still to date obstacles leading to poor data quality for both suicide and suicide attempts: \"given the sensitivity of suicide – and the illegality of suicidal behaviour in some countries – it is likely that under-reporting and misclassification are greater problems for suicide than for most other causes of death.\"\n\nAn estimated one million people per year die by suicide or about one person in 10,000 (1.4% of all deaths), or \"a death every 40 seconds or about 3,000 every day\". As of 2004 the number of people who die by suicide is expected to reach 1.5 million per year by 2020.\n\nOn average, three male suicides are reported for every female one, consistently across different age groups and in almost every country in the world. \"Conversely, rates of suicide attempts tend to be 2-3 times higher in women than in men, although the gender gap has narrowed in recent years.\" More people die from suicide than from murder and war; it is the 13th leading cause of death worldwide.\nAccording to WHO there are twenty people who have a suicide attempt for every one that is fatal, at a rate approximately one every three seconds. Suicide is the \"most common cause of death for people aged 15 – 24.\"\n\nAccording to WHO, suicide accounts for nearly half of all violent deaths in the world. Brian Mishara, IASP president, noted that, \"more people kill themselves than die in all wars, terrorist acts and interpersonal violence combined.\" As of 2008, the WHO refers the widest number of suicides occur in the age group 15 - 29, while the lowest in the 80+ although representing as well the one with the highest rate (per 100,000) of all age groups, with 27.8 suicides and 60.1 for females and males respectively. In 2015 the reported global age-standardized rate is 10.7 per 100,000.\n\nSocial norms play a significant role in the development of suicidal behaviors. Late 19th century's sociological studies recorded first ever observations on suicide: with statistics of the time at hand, sociologists mentioned the effects of industrialization as in relations between new urbanized communities and vulnerability to self-destructive behavior, suggesting social pressures have effects on suicide. Today, differences in suicidal behavior among different countries can show significant.\n\n\nSuicide prevention's priorities, as declared on the 2012 World Suicide Prevention Day event, are stated below:\n\nFollows a brief summary of key quotes on the subject of suicide from different sources:\nPhysical and especially mental health disabling issues such as depression, are among the most common of the long list of complex and interrelated factors, ranging from financial problems to the experience of abuse, aggression, exploitation and mistreatment, that can contribute to the feelings of pain and hopelessness underling suicide. Usually substances and alcohol abuse also play a role. Prevention strategies generally emphasize public awareness towards social stigma and suicidal behaviors.\n\nIn 1999, death by self-inflicted injuries was the fourth leading cause of death among aged 15–44, in the world. In a 2002 study it's reported the countries with the lowest rates tend to be in Latin America, 'Muslim countries and a few Asian countries', and noted a lack of information from most African countries (see map). Data quality is to date a concern for suicide prevention policies. Incidence of suicide tends to be under-reported and misclassified due to both cultural and social pressures, and possibly completely unreported in some areas. Since data might be skewed, comparing suicide rates between nations can result in statistically unsound conclusions about suicidal behavior in different countries. Nevertheless the statistics are commonly used to directly influence decisions about public policy and public health strategies.\n\nOf the 34 member countries of the OECD, a group of mostly high-income countries that uses market economy to improve the Human Development Index, South Korea had the highest suicide rate in 2009. In 2011 South Korea's Ministry of Health and Welfare enacted legislation coinciding with WSPD to address the high rate.\n\nIn 2008 it was reported that young people 15–34 years old in China were more likely to die by suicide than by any other mean, especially young Chinese women in rural places because of 'arguments about marriage'. By 2011 however, suicide rate for the same age group had been declining significantly according to official releases, mainly by late China’s urbanisation and migration from rural areas to more urbanised: since the 1990s indeed, overall national chinese suicide rate dropped by 68%.\n\nAccording to WHO, in 2009 the four countries with the highest rates of suicide were all in Eastern Europe; Slovenia had the fourth highest rate preceded by Russia, Latvia, and Belarus. This stays within findings from the start of the WSPD event in 2003 when the highest rates were also found in Eastern European countries. As of 2015 the highest suicide rates are still in Eastern Europe, Korea and the Siberian area bordering China, in Sri Lanka and the Guianas, Belgium and few Sub-Saharan countries.\n\nAccording to WHO's Mental health Atlas released in 2014, no low-income country reported having a national suicide prevention strategy, while less than 10% of lower-middle income countries, and almost a third of upper-middle and high-income countries had. Focus of the WSPD is the fundamental problem of suicide, considered a major public health issue in high-income and an emerging problem in low and middle-income countries. Among high-income countries (besides South Korea) highest rates in 2015 are found across some Eastern European countries, Belgium and France, Japan, Croatia and Austria, Uruguay and Finland.\n\nSocioeconomic status plays an important role in suicidal behavior, and wealth is a constant with regards to Male–Female suicide rate ratios, being that excess male mortality by suicide is generally limited or non existent in low- and middle-income societies, whereas it is never absent in high-income countries (see table).\n\nSuicidal behavior is also subject of study for economists since about the 1970s: although national costs of suicide and suicide attempts (up to 20 for every one completed suicide) are very high, suicide prevention is hampered by scarce resources for lack of interest by mental health advocates and legislators; and moreover, personal interests even financial are studied with regards to suicide attempts for example, in which insights are given that often \"individuals contemplating suicide do not just choose between life and death [..] the resulting formula contains a somewhat paradoxical conclusion: attempting suicide can be a rational choice, but only if there is a high likelihood it will cause the attempter's life to significantly improve.\" In the United States alone, yearly costs of suicide and suicide attempts are comprised in 50-100 billion dollars.\n\nThe United Nations issued 'National Policy for Suicide Prevention' in the 1990s which some countries also use as a basis for their assisted suicide policies nevertheless the UN noted that suicide bombers' deaths are seen as secondary to their goal of killing other people or specific targets and the bombers are not otherwise typical of people committing suicide.\n\nAccording to a 2006 WHO press release, one third of worldwide suicides were committed with pesticides, \"some of which were forbidden by United Nations (UN) conventions.\" WHO urged the highly populated Asian countries to restrict pesticides that are commonly used in failed attempts, especially organophosphate-based pesticides that are banned by international conventions but still made in and exported by some Asian countries. WHO reports an increase in pesticide suicides in other Asian countries as well as Central and South America. It is estimated that such painful failed attempts could be reduced by legalizing controlled voluntary euthanasia options, as implemented in Switzerland.\n\nAs of 2017, it is estimated that around 30% of global suicides are still due to pesticide self-poisoning, most of which occur in rural agricultural areas in low- and middle-income countries (consisting in about 80% world population). In high-income countries consisting of the remaining 20% world population most common methods are firearms, hanging and other self-poisoning.\n\nEuropean and American societies report a higher male mortality by suicide than any other, while various Asian a much lower. According to most recent data provided by WHO, about 40,000 females of the global three hundred thousand female suicides and 150,000 males of the global half million male suicides, deliberately take their own life every year in Europe and the Americas (consisting of about thirty percent world population). , apart from a few South and East Asian countries home to twenty percent of world population, Morocco, Lesotho, and two Caribbean countries, because of changing gender roles suicide rates are globally higher among men than women.\n\nIn western countries men are about 300% or thrice as likely to die by suicide than females, while a few countries (counting over a hundred million residents overall) exceed the 600% figure. Most considerable difference in male–female suicide ratios is noted in countries of the former Soviet Bloc and in some of Latin America.\n\nGlobally, in 2015 women had higher suicide rates in eight countries. Due to permanence of traditional gender roles, in China (almost a fifth of world population) women were up to 30% more likely than men to commit suicide and up to 60% in some other South Asian countries: overall South Asian (including South-Eastern Asia, a third of world population) age-adjusted ratio however, was \"around\" global average of 1.7 : 1 (men being around 70% more likely than women to die by suicide).\n\nSome suicide reduction strategies do not recognize the separate needs of males and females. Researchers have recommended aggressive long-term treatments and follow up for males that show indications of suicidal thoughts. Studies have also found that because young females are at a higher risk of attempting suicide, policies tailored towards this demographic are most effective at reducing overall rates.\n\nShifting cultural attitudes about gender roles and social norms, and especially ideas about masculinity, may also contribute to closing the gender gap: social status and working roles are assumed to be crucial for men's identity.\n\n"}
{"id": "18045928", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18045928", "title": "Your Candidates-Your Health", "text": "Your Candidates-Your Health\n\nYour Candidates–Your Health is an initiative launched by Research!America and partner organizations to inform voters of their presidential and congressional candidates’ views on health and research. The resource is a free, online voter education tool featuring candidates’ responses to questions about health and research.\n\nIn 2006, all candidates for the United States House of Representatives and Senate were invited to respond to a 10-question survey on several health and research issues, including stem cell research, research funding and global competitiveness in innovation. Candidates' responses, along with the public’s view on the same questions, were posted on the \"Your Candidates–Your Health\" website and were available to educate voters’ decisions in the 2006 congressional elections.\n\nThe initiative continued in 2007 with attention shifted to the 2008 United States presidential election. Presidential candidates from both parties were asked 17 questions in a survey on health, research and other related issues. The questionnaire covered topics such as the American health care system and its costs; health care coverage; electronic health records; global health; stem cell research; global competitiveness in innovation; and funding for the National Institutes of Health (NIH), the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), the Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality (AHRQ) and the Food and Drug Administration (FDA).\n\nThe nonpartisan initiative was advertised in key primary states in early 2008. As part of its promotion, voters were asked to contact candidates and encourage them to respond to the survey. Presidential candidate Senator Barack Obama and Senator John McCain responded.\n\nThe initiative is now collecting responses from the 2012 presidential and congressional candidates. As March 2012, responses from President Barack Obama and presidential candidate Newton Gingrich are available. \n\n"}
