{"id": "18642741", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18642741", "title": "2008 Lok Sabha vote of confidence", "text": "2008 Lok Sabha vote of confidence\n\nThe United Progressive Alliance (UPA), the governing alliance in India elected in 2004, faced its first confidence vote in the Lok Sabha (the lower house of Parliament) on 22 July 2008 after the Communist Party of India (Marxist)-led Left Front withdrew support over India approaching the IAEA for the Indo-US nuclear deal. The vote was so crucial that the UPA and the opposition parties summoned MPs from their sick beds and even from prison cells to take part in the vote, which was eventually won by the Government.\n\nThe following list indicates the official position of the political parties before the voting.\nUPA and supporters: 268 MPs for the government \nNDA and others: 263 MPs against the government \nUndecided: 11 MPs \nNon-voting: 1 MP\n\nIn the 543 member Lok Sabha, the UPA needed 272 votes for the government to enjoy a simple majority. The UPA won the confidence vote with 275 votes to the opposition's 256, (10 members abstained from the vote) to record a 19-vote victory.\n\nTen members abstained from the voting despite some of them having received strict contrary instructions from their parties. \nAmong the 10, 2 MPs followed their party decision of abstaining so as to not be seen as supporting the UPA or the BJP, Left led opposition. Those two were:\n\nThe other 8 members who abstained defied their party stand. These 8 were: \n\nThe 7 members of the UPA who cross-voted against the government were:\n\nConversely, there were at least four members of the opposition who cross-voted in favour of the government proposal. These 4 were\n\nThree BJP MPs – Ashok Argal (Morena), Faggan Singh Kulaste (Mandla) and Mahavir Bhagora (Salumber) amidst discussion walked towards the Speaker Somnath Chatterjee and placed two brown and black leather bags on a table. They pulled out bundles of and alleged that Samajwadi Party leader Amar Singh had tried to offer them bribe to vote in favour of the government. The BJP MP Kulaste, alleged that Amar Singh and Congress leader Ahmed Patel, an aide to Sonia Gandhi tried to offer bribe of to remain absent from the confidence vote. Amar Singh denied the charges. Speaker Somnath Chatterjee asked the police chief of New Delhi to investigate the bribery issue. Indian news channel \"CNN IBN\" which carried out the sting operation by recording using hidden cameras agreed to share the material with Indian authorities. A joint parliamentary committee formed to investigate the issue submitted its report to the Lok Sabha on 15 December 2008, after finding no evidence for bribery against the MPs Amar Singh and Ahmad Patel, thereby exonerating them.\n\nAs a result of not obeying the instructions issued by their political parties, many MPs were expelled as an aftermath of the vote.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21134245", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21134245", "title": "2009 in politics", "text": "2009 in politics\n\nThese are some of the notable events relating to politics in 2009:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50098963", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50098963", "title": "2016 Icelandic anti-government protests", "text": "2016 Icelandic anti-government protests\n\nThe 2016 Icelandic anti-government protests were a series of protests against the Icelandic government following the release of the Panama Papers.\n\nIn 2007, Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson and his wife, Anna Sigurlaug Pálsdóttir, set up Wintris Inc via the law firm Mossack Fonseca. The company was registered in the British Virgin Islands, \"a well-known offshore tax haven.\" In January 2009, Sigmundur Davíð was elected as the Chairman of the Progressive Party, and in the 2009 parliamentary election was elected as a member of the Althing. On the last day of 2009, Sigmundur Davíð sold his share in the company to his wife for $1, just before a new law came into force that would have forced him to declare his ownership as a conflict of interest. Wintris Inc lost millions of dollars as a result of the financial crisis.\n\nFollowing the 2013 parliamentary election, the Progressive Party and the Independence Party, both of which had won 19 seats, formed a coalition government. Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson, as Chairman of the Progressive Party, became Prime Minister, and Bjarni Benediktsson, Chairman of the Independence Party, became Minister of Finance. As Prime Minister, Sigmundur Davíð pledged to fight demands from foreign creditors for full repayment by the Icelandic banks.\n\nIn March 2016, it was revealed that Anna Sigurlaug Pálsdóttir, the wife of the Prime Minister, Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson, was a creditor for Iceland's three failed banks, Landsbanki, Kaupthing Bank and Glitnir. Her company, Wintris Inc, was claiming a total of ISK 515 million from the three banks, due to losses incurred during the financial crisis. Following this revelation, a number of Icelandic MPs criticised the arrangement, with Svandís Svavarsdóttir, a former minister, calling for the government to resign and for new elections.\n\nIn the Panama Papers, released on 3 April 2016, not only Sigmundur Davíð, but also the finance minister, Bjarni Benediktsson, and the interior minister, Ólöf Nordal, were implicated in having offshore tax arrangements. The news was also broadcast in Iceland on a special edition of the current affairs program, Kastljós.\n\nIn the wake of the Panama Papers revelations, on 3 April people began to use Facebook to organise a protest for the following day. According to Facebook, 10,000 people were planning to attend the protest.\n\nAt midday on 4 April, Sigmundur Davíð did a live television interview during which he said he would not be resigning, but did apologise for his performance in an earlier television interview. The protest was scheduled to take place at 5pm, and people slowly began gathering in Austurvöllur, the park just outside of Alþingishúsið, the building that houses the Althing. One early protester was arrested for throwing tubs of skyr at the building. When the protests began, members of the Althing were still sitting in a parliamentary session. The size of the crowd was estimated to be between 9,000 and 23,000 people by different sources, although was acknowledged to be one of the biggest political demonstrations in Iceland's history. The planned parliament session for the following day, 5 April, was cancelled.\n\nOn the morning of 5 April, Sigmundur Davíð announced via Facebook his intention to dissolve parliament and call early elections. Later on that morning, he met with the President of Iceland, Ólafur Ragnar Grímsson, who had just returned from a private visit to the United States. During the meeting, the Prime Minister asked the President to dissolve parliament and call new elections. Ólafur Ragnar refused this request, on the grounds that the Prime Minister had not consulted his coalition partner, the Independence Party, on this issue. The President also said that it was \"inappropriate\" to drag him into disputes between political parties.\n\nIn the afternoon on 5 April, a meeting of Progressive Party MPs concluded that Sigmundur Davíð should resign as Prime Minister. The meeting proposed Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson, who was Minister of Fisheries and Agriculture, as his successor. The same day, another protest took place in Austurvöllur, with a smaller crowd than the day before. At 6:30pm, the protesters left Austurvöllur and began protesting outside the Progressive Party headquarters in Hverfisgata, a different part of Reykjavik. Protesters were calling for the government to resign and for new elections. That evening, foreign correspondents revealed a government press release saying that the Prime Minister \"has not resigned\" and was handing over the office to Sigurður Ingi \"for an unspecified amount of time.\" This confusion of the matter was condemned by a number of opposition politicians, as well as Icelandic historian Guðni Th. Johannesson.\n\nOn 7 April, a new government was appointed, with Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson as the Prime Minister. Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson, the former foreign affairs minister, replaced Sigurður Ingi as the agriculture and fisheries minister. Lilja Dögg Alfreðsdóttir, who is not a sitting MP, was brought in as the new foreign affairs minister, on the personal recommendation of former Prime Minister Sigmundur Davíð. The government announced early elections for autumn, saying that it was necessary for them to stay in power to complete the removal of capital controls. Protests taking place in Reykjavík coincided with the appointment of the new government, which took place at Bessastaðir.\n\nOn 8 April, the new government was in parliament for the first time. In the morning, ministers discussed their plans, strategies and ongoing projects. In the afternoon, the focus was on the opposition's motion of no confidence, and vote on a new election. At least three coalition MPs had expressed dismay at the government's actions before the votes were taken. The government survived the two votes put forward by the opposition parties, winning the no confidence 38-25, and the vote for new elections 37-26. Following the votes, Bjarni Benediktsson told reporters that it had been \"a very tough week.\"\n\nProtests resumed with increased further on 9 April, when some estimates put the number of protesters in attendance at 14,000.\n\n"}
{"id": "8974081", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8974081", "title": "ARTHUR (radar)", "text": "ARTHUR (radar)\n\nARTHUR is an acronym for \"Artillery Hunting Radar\", is a Counter-battery radar\nsystem originally developed jointly for and in close co-operation with the Norwegian and Swedish armed forces by Ericsson Microwave Systems in both Sweden and Norway. \n\nIt is a mobile, passive electronically scanned array C-Band radar for the purpose of enemy field artillery acquisition and\nwas developed for the primary role as the core element of a brigade or division level counter battery sensor system. The vehicle carrying the radar was originally a Bandvagn 206 developed and produced by Hägglunds, but is now more often delivered on trucks with ISO fasteners. The radar is now developed by SAAB Electronic Defence Systems (after EMW was sold to SAAB in June 2006) and Saab Technologies Norway AS.\n\nThe ARTHUR detects hostile artillery by tracking projectiles in flight. The original ARTHUR Mod A can locate guns at 15 - 20 km and 120 mm mortars at 30 - 35 km with a circular error probable of 0.45% of range. This is accurate enough for effective counter-battery fire by friendly artillery batteries. ARTHUR can operate as a stand-alone medium-range weapons locating radar or a long-range weapon locating system, consisting of two to four radars working in coordination. This flexibility enables the system to maintain a constant surveillance of an area of interest. \n\nThe upgraded ARTHUR Mod B meets the British Army's MAMBA requirement for locating guns, mortars or rockets. It can locate guns at 20 - 25 km and 120 mm mortars at 35 - 40 km with a circular probable error of 0.35% of range. MAMBA was successfully used by the British Army in Iraq and Afghanistan.\n\nARTHUR Mod C has a larger antenna and can detect guns at 31 km, mortars at 55 km and rockets at 50 - 60 km depending on their size, and locate targets at a rate of 100 per minute with CEP 0.2% of range for guns and rockets and 0.1% for mortars.\n\nIt can be carried by a C-130 or slung under a heavy lift helicopter such as a Chinook. Its air mobility allows it for use by light and rapid reaction forces such as airborne and marine units.\n\nThe use of the ARTHUR in Nordic Battle Groups will primarily concentrate on preventing the use of artillery barrages in civilian areas, since the radar can identify an artillery unit guilty of targeting civilians. It will also be used to warn friendly mission troops of incoming indirect fire.\n\nARTHUR can be operated in two main modes: Weapon locating and Fire direction. Weapon locating is used to determine the location of the guns, mortars or rocket launchers that fired and their target area. Fire direction is used to adjust the fire of own artillery onto target coordinates.\n\nWhen locating enemy artillery, the radar tracks the up-going trajectory of shells, calculates their points of origin and impact and, with other information, displays it to the radar operator(s). Depending on national tactics, techniques, procedures, the commander's orders and the situation, this information may be used to alert any troops in the impact area and engage the hostile batteries with counter-battery fire. If the users have digital communications networks these messages may be sent automatically. \nThe ARTHUR can determine whether the artillery piece is of artillery-type, rocket-type or mortar-type based upon the curve of the trajectory, the munition's speed, and its range.\n\nWhen in Fire direction mode the radar calculates the expected impact location of the friendly fire. From this corrections are calculated and reported to hit the target coordinates. \n\nSweden also uses the radar for 'fall of shot' calibration. \n\nRadars are easy to detect and locate if the enemy has the necessary ELINT/ESM capability. The consequences of this detection are likely to be attack by artillery fire or aircraft (including anti-radiation missiles) or ECM. In other circumstances ground attack with direct fire or short range indirect fire are the main threat. The usual measures against the first are using a radar horizon to screen from ground-based detection, minimising transmission time, deploying radars singly and moving frequently. Swedish ARTHUR units usually operate in groups of three that guard the immediate surroundings.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57769321", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57769321", "title": "Afghanistan Institute of Peace", "text": "Afghanistan Institute of Peace\n\nAfghanistan Institute of Peace (AFGIP) an independent think-tank headquartered in Kabul, Afghanistan. A non-governmental organization (NGO) and a non-for-profit organization, it advocates for positive community change and peacebuilding initiatives in Afghanistan. \n\nThe Institute works with local Afghan peace-builders and international partners to bring sustainable positive change in Afghan communities, particularly in the conflict zones. AFGIP has a nationwide local peace-builders team which works with international experts in a unique approach to build local capacity of community people and establish the foundation for positive community change initiatives. AFGIP works with the community people using community's available assets. AFGIP believes that scaling up the capacity of community people and the use of their available resources including human energy will lead to long-term stability and peace in these communities. They are conducting research studies to understand the roots and causes of conflict in conflict zones and simultaneously prepare a response strategy per district to react and to respond to the community level issues by using the early warning signs and data. Their mission is to promote positive community change initiatives and youth empowerment through the religious channels to bringing long-term peace in Afghanistan.\n\nAFGIP was officially registered with the Afghanistan Government as an NGO in 2015. However, the organization was heavily involved in peacebuilding initiatives long before this which was structured as a voluntarily mechanism where a number of like-minded peacebuilders were working on peacebuilding activities. The founder and CEO of AFGIP, Mr. Yasar Ahmadzai, was featured and recognized for his peacebuilding efforts by different organizations, including the United State Institute of Peace (USIP) and World Peace Center. In 2015 he was featured by USIP among the top 10 peace builders across the globe for the year 2015. \n\nMore than four decades of conflict have fundamentally destroyed trust in peacekeeping and has built dangerous alternatives for the Afghan people to survive. While it’s not impossible, but also not easy, peacebuilding and peacekeeping can be built in Afghanistan. The question of how is contingent on how we preserve and build peace. The approach the AFGIP so far took has been focusing on youths and building youth peace ambassadors. They believe that youth extremism has become a serious challenge not only to the Afghan government but to the entire region and mainly to the families where these youths are coming from. To construct the efforts made in this regard by various stakeholder in the past, AFGIP is working on a bottom-up approach to raise awareness and conduct peace sensitization in the hotspot communities. Looking back not undermining what has been achieved in regards to peacebuilding efforts in Afghanistan, the impact of what has been done is limited to the main cities where already peoples’ access to information and resources are high. So, to encounter peace in the hotspots AFGIP focused on the conflict zones and this became a priority for them since they are formally established. While all the provinces, but particularly the South, East, and South-Western provinces of Afghanistan are the main target of the insurgents that drives the youths to extremism and became the hotspots in last decade and so. AFGIP by intervening in these hotspots through its violence prevention activities work with religious networks and through families to provide alternatives to the at-risk youths in these communities. Previous interventions to address and prevent youth extremism in these provinces have been relatively unsuccessful, due in part, to poor targeting and unrealistic assessment of the true underlying causes of youth extremism in these hotspots. So to not repeat the same mistake, AFGIP took a bottom-up approach which adopts a multi-prong approach to address at-risk youths and tackle extremism in a different but practical lens. Their approach allows for a broader engagement which provides an opportunity to gradually transform the targeted hotspots into a peaceful environment where youth will actively play their roles to build long-term peace in their communities.\n\nPeace is the most important element in any community and where it is lacking, it creates moments of anxiety that stifles growth. Drive the force of the community, especially the youths, in the wrong directions and can contribute to unstable environments that threaten everything in that community. In particular AFGIP: \n\n"}
{"id": "413773", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=413773", "title": "Aleksandar Stamboliyski", "text": "Aleksandar Stamboliyski\n\nAleksandar Stoimenov Stamboliyski (, variously transliterated such as Aleksandar/Alexander Stamboliyski/Stamboliiski/Stamboliski; 1 March 1879 – 14 June 1923) was the prime minister of Bulgaria from 1919 until 1923. Stamboliyski was a member of the Agrarian Union, an agrarian peasant movement which was not allied to the monarchy, and edited their newspaper. He opposed the country's participation in World War I and its support for the Central Powers. In a famous incident during 1914 Stamboliyski's patriotism was challenged when members of the Bulgarian parliament questioned whether he was Bulgarian or not, to which he shouted in response \"At a moment, like the current, when our brothers South Slavs are threatened, I am neither a Bulgarian nor a Serb, I am a South Slav (Yugoslav)!\". This statement relates to his belief in a Balkan Federation which would unite the region and supersede many of the national identities which existed at the time. He was court-martialed and sentenced to life in prison in 1915 due to his opposition to Bulgaria joining the Central Powers in WWI.\n\nIn 1918, with the defeat of Bulgaria as an ally of the Central Powers, Tsar Ferdinand abdicated in favor of his son Tsar Boris III who released Stamboliyski from prison. He joined the government in January, 1919, and was appointed prime minister on October 14 of that year. On March 20, 1920, the Agrarian Union won national elections and Stamboliyski was confirmed as prime minister.\n\nDuring his term in office, Stamboliyski made a concerted effort to improve relations with the rest of Europe. This resulted in Bulgaria becoming the first of the defeated states to join the League of Nations in 1920. Though popular with the peasants, he antagonized the middle class and military. Many considered him to be a virtual dictator or a peasant thug. He was ousted in a military coup in June 1923. He attempted to raise a rebellion against the new government, but was captured by the IMRO, who detested him for renouncing Bulgarian claims on the territory of Macedonia, was brutally tortured, and killed.\n\nBorn to a farmer, Aleksandar Stamboliyski spent his childhood in his birth village of , the same village where he would later gather several thousand insurrectionists from the region and advance against the town of Pazardzhik. However, before this grand counter-insurgence was to transpire, Stamboliyski had to work himself up the ranks of the nation’s political scene as the leader of the Bulgarian Agrarian People's Union. Although successful in his political ambition of acquiring the highest political office of the state, the unstable political atmosphere of Bulgaria in the early inter-war years ultimately contributed to Stamboliyski’s demise.\n\nUntil the mid 20th century Bulgaria was primarily a land of small, independent peasant farmers. The proportion of the population (approximately 4/5) who were peasants was roughly the same in 1920 as it had been in 1878. The Bulgarian Agrarian National Union, or BANU, emerged in 1899 in reaction to the low standard of living facing the agrarian peasants of Bulgaria as well as the general focus on the towns and cities which marked the political situation at the turn of the twentieth century. By 1911, as the leader of the BANU, Stamboliyski was a notorious anti-monarchist and led the opposition to Tsar Ferdinand of Bulgaria. On September 25, 1918, in order to gain the BANU’s acceptance, the regime was forced to release a number of political detainees, most notably Aleksandar Stamboliyski, who had been sentenced to life in prison after his meeting with Tsar Ferdinand to protest the war effort on 18 September 1915; two weeks before Bulgaria entered World War I on the side of the Central Powers. When the regime released Stamboliyski from prison, it did so with the hope that he would contain the growing unrest within the army, which at that time was essentially in full rebellion and heading for Sofia. While he initially tried to quell the rebellion, his fellow agrarian party activist Rayko Daskalov, who had been sent with Stamboliyski for the same purpose, quickly joined the rebellion and became its de facto leader. Rayko Daskalov issued a declaration under his name and that of Stamboliyski, which named Bulgaria a people's republic and the tyrannical regime of Tsar Ferdinand was denounced and told to surrender to the new provisional government headed on paper by the BANU leader. Even though Stambolyiski had not been informed of Daskalov's decision (his name had been added to the declaration without his knowledge) and he immediately went to Sofia to inform the government that he did not support the uprising, a warrant was issued for his arrest.\n\nThe rebellion, centered to the west of Sofia in the town of Radomir threatened to develop into a national revolution, but the movement for a new, agrarian republic was quickly eliminated due to several factors and was left without the sufficient means to bring about the change it desired. Lasting from only 28 September until 2 October, the rebellion although short-lived found some early success. The mutineers managed to enter Bulgaria's capital where tsarist forces, led by general Alexander Protogerov, crushed the rebellion killing an estimated 2000 soldiers and arresting an estimated 3000. Unlike many of his supporters, Stamboliyski was able to escape the fate of imprisonment or execution and, instead, went into hiding until he was to re-surface in the political arena during the reign of Tsar Boris III. The movement, however, could not be considered a total failure by the Agrarian Union as it was successful in eliminating the rule of Tsar Ferdinand, who fled Bulgaria by train on 3 October 1918, in the wake of Allied occupation. Ferdinand was to be succeeded by his son, Boris III, with the approval of the Allied Powers.\n\nAfter Tsar Boris III took the throne, the emerging political factions in Bulgaria were the Agrarians, the Socialists, and the Macedonian extremists. However, due to the loss of the territory of Macedonia immediately following Bulgaria’s surrender to the Allied forces, the Macedonian faction fell out of contention leaving the Agrarian and Communists factions struggling for political supremacy. As the general election of 1919 approached, Stamboliyski came out of hiding and won the election of prime minister of the new coalition cabinet. However, because the election was so close, Stamboliyski was forced to form a government coalition between the agrarians and the left-wing parliamentary parties. By March 1920, however, Stamboliyski was able to form a solely BANU government with another decisive election victory and some tactical manipulation of the parliamentary system (common practice at the time). From his complete acquisition of power in March 1920, until his death on 14 June 1923, Stamboliyski ruled Bulgaria with a strong personality leading many to remember him as a kind of strongman, dictator, or thug. This is in spite of his electoral successes.\n\nStamboliyski’s government immediately faced pressures from the political left and right, a harsh international occupation force, debt amounting to a “preposterous sum”, as well as national problems such as food shortages, general strikes, and a great flu epidemic. His goal was to transform the political, economic, and social structures of the state while at the same time rejecting the rhetoric of radicalism and its Bolshevik associations. He aimed at establishing the rule of the peasant, which comprised over 80% of the population of Bulgaria in 1920. Part of his objective was to offer each member of the dominant group an equitable distribution of property and access to the cultural and welfare facilities in all villages. The local BANU cooperative organizations known at the Druzhbi were to play a vital role in linking the peasant economy to the national and international markets in addition to offering the benefits of large scale agriculture without resorting to Soviet style collectivization. Stamboliyski founded the BANU Orange Guard, a peasant militia that both protected him and carried out his agrarian reforms. In foreign policy, Stamboliyski abided by the terms he helped set in the peace treaty signed at Neuilly-sur-Seine in November 1919, which was eventually exploited by the extreme right factions of Bulgaria as he failed to lessen the outstanding reparations payments until 1923. Stamboliyski rejected territorial expansion and aimed at forming a Balkan federation of agrarian states, a policy which began with a détente with Yugoslavia. His administration was successful in bringing out land redistribution legislation, creating maximum property holding regulations. It also increased the vocational element in education, especially in rural areas. Being ardently anti-war himself he kept the army below the low level set by the Neuilly treaty, further angering the military by restriction their social status and opportunities for advancement. However, importantly Stamboliyski never settled the Macedonian problem.\n\nOn February 2, 1923, Stamboliyski survived an assassination attempt carried out by the Internal Macedonian Revolutionary Organization (IMRO).\n\nOn March 23, 1923 he signed the Treaty of Niš with the Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenes and undertook the obligation to suppress the operations of the IMRO carried out from Bulgarian territory. On 9 June 1923, Stamboliyski’s government was overthrown by a coup composed of the right wing factions of the Military League, IMRO, the National Alliance, and the army led by Aleksandar Tsankov. Italian agents sent by Mussolini in retaliation against Stamboliyski's refusal to ally with him against Yugoslavia also aided in the coup. With the Communist faction refusing to intervene and the international community uninterested, Stamboliyski was isolated.\n\nAs important as the overthrow of Stambolyiski was for Bulgaria, the refusal of the Communist Party of Bulgaria to unite with the Stamboliyski's Agrarians had important ideological consequences for the young Soviet Russia next door. The passivity of the Bulgarian Communists during the June 9th, coup in 1923 was bitterly disappointing to nearly all factions within the Russian government and the Bolshevik Party. Stalin, who, by 1923, was gathering power in the absence of Lenin in the leadership of the new Soviet Russian government, had sought close relations with the Stamboliyski government. Firstly, the Soviet government sought a means to break the ring of isolation that the western powers had erected around the new Soviet nation. Secondly, although the Bulgarian proletariat was growing, it was still a very small part of the Bulgarian economy. Accordingly, following the Russian example, Russian Communists were strongly of the opinion that the Communists in Bulgaria should aid and support the liberal petty bourgeoisie—in the form of Stamboliyski's Agrarian Party as a means to advance the interests of the workers in Bulgaria. Indeed, this was the thinking of the Fourth Congress of the Communist International which was held in Moscow in November, 1922. At the Fourth Congress, delegates instructed the Bulgarians to support the Stamboliyski government. Yet in the right wing coup of Alexander Tsankov in June, 1923, the Bulgarian Communist Party refused to come to the aid of Stamboliyski and following the coup the Communist Party was forced \"underground\" by the Tsankovist Terror that followed the coup. The Communist International then \"ordered\" the Bulgarian Communist Party to redress this error of passivity in the face of a reactionary coup. Accordingly, the Bulgarian Communist Party denied that they had suffered a defeat in the June coup and rose in a hastily arranged uprising in September 1923. This uprising however was quickly defeated by the Tsankov government.\n\nThus, ended the third and last real attempt by the Soviet Russian government to initiate a revolution in Europe. It had long been an article of faith among the Bolshevik leaders of Soviet Russia that the Russian Revolution needed an accompanying revolution among the more industrialized nations of Europe to prevent the capitalist nations from gathering together and eventually crushing Soviet Russia. However, the defeat in Bulgaria following the defeat of the Red Army in front of Warsaw in August 1920 which prevented a workers government in Poland from being established and more importantly a failure of the March 1921 uprising in Germany convinced the Bolshevik leaders that revolution in Europe was not going to happen any time soon.\n\nIn the June, 1923, coup, Stamboliyski was taken prisoner in his native village of Slavovitsa, where he was relocated following the coup d’état. From his native village, Stamboliyski was organizing a counter-insurgence that was large in number but weak in arms. He was brutally tortured and murdered by the IMRO. The IMRO members were extremely brutal in assassinating him because of his signature on the Treaty of Niš. His hand that signed the Treaty of Niš was cut off. He was also blinded in his torture and his head was cut off and sent to Sofia in a box of biscuits.\n\nIn 1979 the then Communist government of Bulgaria renamed the town previously known as \"Novi Krichim\" to \"Stamboliyski\", in honour of Aleksandar Stamboliyski.\n\n"}
{"id": "50006196", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50006196", "title": "Amy Bailey", "text": "Amy Bailey\n\nAmy Bailey OJ, OD, OBE, MBE (27 November 1895 – 3 October 1990) was a Jamaican educator, social worker and women's rights advocate. She was a co-founder of the Jamaican aid organization Save the Children and was the driving force behind the drive for introducing birth control to the island. She received many honours and awards in her career, including the Order of the British Empire, the Jamaican Order of Distinction and the Marcus Garvey Award for Excellence in 1988. In 1990, shortly before her death, she was honoured with the Order of Jamaica.\n\nAmy Beckford Bailey was born on 27 November 1895 in Walderston, Manchester Parish, Jamaica, to Anne (née Lawson) and William Frederick Bailey. Bailey was the fifth of eight children born to her parents who were both teachers. Her father was the founder of the Jamaica Union of Teachers and encouraged all of his children to become teachers, as there were few other opportunities open to black Jamaicans. After attending elementary school at Mount Olivet Primary School, Bailey studied at Shortwood Teacher’s College, graduating in 1917. Soon thereafter, she was stricken with severe dysmenorrhea. While recuperating, she studied on her own to earn accounting, bookkeeping, and shorthand.\n\nIn January 1920, Bailey began teaching at the Kingston Technical High School (KTHS), when she was hired to replace her sister who was taking a three-month leave of absence. Ivy didn't return to the school, and Bailey, who began as a shorthand instructor, remained until 1958. After she retired from KTHS, Bailey taught at the College of Arts Science and Technology between 1958 and 1963.\n\nIn 1936, Bailey and her sister Ina founded the Women’s Liberal Club (WLC), with the goal of helping women improve their employment opportunities, as rarely were women promoted for their qualifications, but instead by having to curry favour from prominent men. They believed that by improving the socio-economic status of women, they would improve their cultural and national pride. In 1939 WLC organized a conference to allow women to discuss the problems they faced. Issues they highlighted were that women were barred from participation in the Legislative Council; could not be appointed as officials, such as inspectors, jurors, justices of the peace, or police officers; were barred from upper positions in civil service jobs; and that racial discrimination impacted their employment opportunity. Bailey formalized these issues into recommendations, which were submitted to the governor in 1941 and led to a law prohibiting sex discrimination. The law allowed women to hold public office and eliminated employment bans for women.\n\nConcerned with the discrimination she saw in the class hierarchy enshrined in Jamaica at the time, Bailey wrote a series of editorials that were published in \"The Gleaner\". She openly addressed the racial discrimination that relegated black-skinned Jamaicans to menial jobs and poverty, brown-skinned Jamaicans to middle-class blue-collar jobs and white Jamaicans to positions of authority. In one article written in 1937, entitled \"Not Wanted—I\", she discussed how it was especially difficult for women to attain positions in line with their skills and training. A few months later, she published \"Discrimination\", in which she urged women to boycott institutions and establishments that did not treat them fairly. These articles drew criticism from some factions of society, which claimed Bailey was trying to start a race war. Bailey countered that she was simply trying to bring the issue into the open and prompt laws to address disparity. Though the WLC conference had proposed a law end to racial discrimination be passed, that was one of the recommendations upon which the government refused to act.\n\nBailey and May Farquharson joined forces in 1937 and began working on other strategies to improve the lives of women. One of the issues they discussed was family planning, and another was an initiative called Save the Children Fund, which they founded in 1938. Joining forces with them were Mary Morris Knibb, Dr. Jai Lal Varma, and Dr. Pengelley. With seed money given by May’s father Arthur Farquharson, Bailey travelled to London with Una Marson to raise funds for providing food, clothing and textbooks to Jamaican school children. The fund drive was a resounding success and the organization is still thriving. While in England, Bailey became the first Jamaican to testify to the Royal Commission headed by Walter Guinness, 1st Baron Moyne about labour unrest, the burgeoning trade union movement, as well as the political unrest plaguing Jamaica at that time. She also met with proponents of family planning, and when she returned to Jamaica a birth control drive was launched in 1939 with a seminar held at the Ward Theater.\n\nLeading up to the meeting, Dr. Varma, an Indian-born doctor who was residing in Jamaica, and several other prominent figures published their views on the matter in \"The Gleaner\". Varma and Dr. William Edward Mcculloch were the only physicians willing to publish their views in favour of controlling the birth rate. Their view was that the extremely high birth rate in Jamaica was a hindrance to economic progress. The doctor's views were refuted by the churches, which though concerned about illegitimacy, felt that birth control was a family matter. Bailey, saw the issue as one that addressed gender and racial inequalities. She organized, with the help of Farquharson and Judith Decordova, a charity worker, a three-month lecture tour throughout Jamaica by Edith How-Martyn, a British feminist and birth control advocate. They established their first clinic in 1939 at 24 East Race Course, and provided nursery care and parenting classes. The women successfully continued the programme, despite the various organizations that disapproved, until the government finally took over Family Planning.\n\nAnother initiative launched in 1938 occurred when Bailey met with Governor Edward Brandis Denham to express her concern about the limited opportunities available to black youths. She expressed the frustration of her students who had graduated with technical skills but were barred from working in civil service jobs. Believing that her outspokenness would result in reprimand, she was surprised when a committee was set up within two weeks of the governor's visit with her to investigate the situation. Meeting between 1938 and 1939, the committee recommended that civil service exams be opened to all graduates of the Technical High School. Beginning in 1939, banking and business employment became open to the students.\n\nIn 1944, the adviser to the Comptroller for Colonial Development and Welfare for the West Indies publicly criticized Jamaican women for their lack of contribution to their nation. Bailey took the words as a call to action and founded the Homecraft Training Centre as a way to build their dignity and self-respect while teaching them skills. In 1946 with her own funds, she made a down-payment on the property at 4 Rosedale Avenue in Kingston and began offering home economics courses. The centre offered training in catering, cooking, domestic skills, and sewing, as well as English language and arithmetic to girls. She headed the centre until 1978, when she retired. \n\nBailey died on 3 October 1990 at Nuttall Memorial Hospital in Kingston, Jamaica.\n\nThroughout her lifetime, Bailey received many awards and honours. In 1978, she was awarded the Jamaican Order of Distinction for her public service. In January 1988, she was awarded the Marcus Garvey Award for Excellence for her dedication to the development of social programs of Jamaica. In 1990, a documentary on the lives of Bailey and Farquharson, their remarkable friendship, and their work for women's political and economic equality was produced by Sistren Research. On International Women's Day, 8 March 1990, Bailey and Farquharson, were awarded the Order of Jamaica for their contributions to women's rights. A ceremony bestowing the order was held on 5 June 1990.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50554466", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50554466", "title": "Androgen Insensitivity Syndrome Support Group Australia", "text": "Androgen Insensitivity Syndrome Support Group Australia\n\nThe Androgen Insensitivity Syndrome Support Group Australia (AISSGA) is possibly the oldest known intersex organization, established in 1985. It provides peer and family support, information and advocacy. The group is run by volunteers, for people with intersex variations such as androgen insensitivity syndrome.\n\nThe Androgen Insensivitity Syndrome Support Group Australia may be the oldest intersex organization, established in 1985, prior to the Androgen Insensitivity Syndrome Support Group (UK), established in 1988, and the Intersex Society of North America (ISNA) in 1993.\n\nThe AISSGA was founded by Dr Garry Warne, then the Director of Paediatric Endocrinology at the Royal Children's Hospital, Melbourne. It is now run by a board of people with intersex variations, and parents. Notable members include Bonnie Hart, Phoebe Hart and Tony Briffa. Many members of the group took part in Phoebe Hart's 2010 autobiographical road movie, \"Orchids, My Intersex Adventure\".\n\nThe core activity of the Group is to provide peer and family support, information and advocacy. It produces regular newsletters, known as dAISy, an annual conference, and regular meetings in Brisbane, Melbourne and Sydney.\n\nThe group has advocated on intersex human rights issues since at least the turn of the century, with submissions on discrimination and prenatal terminations dating back to 2003. Tony Briffa was published in Nature in April 2004, calling for an end to irreversible sex assignment treatments in infancy. The group has also made a similar submission to a 2013 Australian Senate inquiry on involuntary or coerced sterilisation of people with disabilities.\n\nIn March 2017, representatives of Androgen Insensitivity Syndrome Support Group Australia participated in an Australian and Aotearoa/New Zealand consensus \"Darlington Statement\" by intersex community organizations and others. The statement calls for legal reform, including the criminalization of deferrable intersex medical interventions on children, an end to legal classification of sex, and improved access to peer support.\n\nAndie Hider, then president of AISSGA, took part in the ABC television program Four Corners in July 2005. Current president Bonnie Hart appeared on Australian television with Intersex Human Rights Australia president Morgan Carpenter in March 2015, and in a short video for the National LGBTI Health Alliance QLife project, later that year.\n\nThe AISSGA is a member of the National LGBTI Health Alliance.\n\n"}
{"id": "7718117", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7718117", "title": "Associationalism", "text": "Associationalism\n\nAssociationalism or associative democracy is a political movement in which \"human welfare and liberty are both best served when as many of the affairs of a society as possible are managed by voluntary and democratically self-governing associations.\" Associationalism \"gives priority to freedom in its scale of values, but it contends that such freedom can only be pursued effectively if individuals join with their fellows\"\n\nAssociationalism is a European political theory, stemming from 19th and early 20th century social and political theorists from the continent. In France, such political thinkers as de Tocqueville, Proudhon, Durkheim, and Duguit. In England, such pluralists as Cole, Figgis, Laski, Barker, and Maitland. The theory provides an alternative to the previously popular doctrines of state-centered and collectivist ideals which had all but dominated twentieth-century politics: Western social democracy and Eastern bloc Marxist–Leninism.\n\nAlexis de Tocqueville's idea of associationalism “...stressed volunteerism, community spirit and independent associational life as protections against the domination of society by the state, and indeed as a counterbalance which helped to keep the state accountable and effective”. In Tocqueville’s vision then, economic freedom fosters greed, which engenders political apathy, which results in excessive individualism and passive reliance on the state. This political apathy will in turn result in the almost inevitable growth of government if left unchecked by associationalism. Thus, Tocqueville predicted that “It is easy to see the time coming in which men will be less and less able to produce, by each alone, the commonest bare necessities of life. The tasks of government must therefore perpetually increase, and its efforts to cope with them must spread its net ever wider. The more government takes the place of associations, the more will individuals lose the idea of forming associations and need the government to come to their help. That is a vicious cycle of cause and effect”.\n\nAssociational democracy is, in essence, both a political structure and system of relations with the goal of easing pluralist social negotiation and priorities. It became an important aspect of public policy, countering previous laissez-faire traditions. Critics considered laissez-faire, which essentially equated to liberal individualism, as not conducive to the fostering of upward mobility in society. Associationalism, as opposed to liberal individualism, embodies a deliberate commitment to social cooperation as well as public well-being.\n\"Association...grew out of a sense of difference; for the middle class, it meant crossing class lines to bring together people of diverse identities and conditions\". According to David Lewis, during the late 19th and early 20th century the new middle class required “...sanctioned private accumulation underwritten by a state which maintained legal order and stability\"· As a result, the state needed to become powerful enough to maintain order, but not so strong as to become oppressive; neither laissez-faire nor statist. Finding this balance between transgressing autonomy and dangerous accumulation of power could prove difficult, and associationalism appeared to be a possible solution.\nAssociationalism brought together several political ideologies which, until its conception, were frequently at odds: pluralism, socialism, and cooperative mutualism. It provides for a pluralist rather than a statist or constraining collectivist socialism, yet it also provides for a mutualist and cooperative pluralism. This, as opposed to pluralism which reacts so far to statist communitarianism that it slides into an unrestricted competitive asociality.\n\nUrban politics in late 19th century America proved an ideal situation for the emergence of associationalism, ripe with several qualifications discussed by early associationalists. In addition, voter turnout was relatively high, though usually confined to party lines. Despite this fact, the two large national parties at the time (Democrats and Republicans) lacked significant ideological differences on specific issues. Respected members of communities across the country began to propose associationalism as a solution to America's social political problems. Several Protestant ministers such as Lyman Abbot, Washington Gladden, Josiah Strong, and Walter Raushenbusch began to call for a “social gospel.” “The next great principle,” Rauschenbusch proclaimed in 1896, “is association”. These growing political currents in favor of associationalism perhaps culminated when voters elected William McKinley and Theodore Roosevelt, a left statist associationalist who would become president shortly thereafter, in 1900.\n\n“Associationalism is fundamentally about collective governance – about the legal constitution of groups and bodies politic and the rules and bylaws that regulate the interrelationships of members”. During the early 20th century Congress passed a great deal of “protective legislation,” which was, in essence, legislated associationalism. Labor received improved work conditions resulting in fewer work-related injuries. Wages were increased while hours were decreased. In addition, probably the most important protective legislation pertained to the legal establishment and organization of large labor unions.\n\nOn the other side of the coin, employer costs went up resulting in outsourcing and decreased cash flow into such areas as research and development, slowing technological progress. Fewer hours and the fact that labor was more organized (allowing for an increase in strikes and protests) resulted in less production. Finally, such strong government influence over labor could lead to an abuse of power, favoring certain unions. The results of these legislated regulations suggested to critics that associationalism tends to benefit labor (the \"people”) directly at the cost of both corporate management and technological progress.\n\n Theodore Roosevelt (President 1901-1908) was the first true champion of American associationalism as evidenced by his intervention into the United Mine Workers strike of 1902. For the first time representatives from government, labor, and management met collectively and were able to resolve the conflict. When management was uncooperative, Roosevelt threatened to employ the military on behalf of labor to arrive at a resolution.\n\nInstead, a five-member commission was established to communicate with the company management. Also, wages were increased by ten percent and the length of the work day was cut from ten hours to nine, keeping union membership sound. By demonstrating a new role for the state in such conflicts (aside from the previously held military positions) associationalism took root in American society and politics, and there wasn't another major coal strike in the country until the 1920s.\n\nWoodrow Wilson (President 1913-1920), a regulatory liberal, employed associationalism during World War I to control and regulate capital, ensuring a steady flow of war supplies while minimizing the risk of breaks in manufacturing vital to the war effort. The establishment of such government agencies as the National War Labor Board were instrumental in preventing strikes and ensuring collective bargaining. In addition, Wilson appointed the country's first Secretary of Labor that was pro labor (William B. Wilson). The policies were implemented as America successfully met its goals in wartime production. There were nearly no strikes, many companies saw enormous profits, and the Allies won the war.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36026354", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36026354", "title": "Boolean hierarchy", "text": "Boolean hierarchy\n\nThe boolean hierarchy is the hierarchy of boolean combinations (intersection, union and complementation) of NP sets. Equivalently, the boolean hierarchy can be described as the class of boolean circuits over NP predicates. A collapse of the boolean hierarchy would imply a collapse of the polynomial hierarchy.\n\nBH is defined as follows:\n\n\nDefining the conjunction and the disjunction of classes as follows allows for\nmore compact definitions. The conjunction of two classes contains the languages that are the intersection of a language of the first class and a language of the second class. Disjunction is defined in a similar way with the union in place of the intersection.\n\nAccording to this definition, DP = NP ∧ coNP. The other classes of the Boolean hierarchy can be defined as follows.\n\nThe following equalities can be used as alternative definitions of the classes of the Boolean hierarchy:\n\nAlternatively, for every \"k\" ≥ 3:\n\nHardness for classes of the Boolean hierarchy can be proved by showing a reduction from a number of instances of an arbitrary NP-complete problem A. In particular, given a sequence {\"x\", ... \"x\"} of instances of A such that \"x\" ∈ A implies \"x\" ∈ A, a reduction is required that produces an instance \"y\" such that \"y\" ∈ B if and only if the number of \"x\" ∈ A is odd or even:\n\n\nSuch reductions work for every fixed . If such reductions exist for arbitrary , the problem is hard for P.\n"}
{"id": "57064840", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57064840", "title": "Cannabis policy of the George H. W. Bush administration", "text": "Cannabis policy of the George H. W. Bush administration\n\nDuring the administration of American President George H. W. Bush (1989–1993), the United States largely followed the precedents set by the cannabis policy of the Reagan administration, including prosecution of the War on Drugs.\n\nIn 1989, Bush appointed William Bennett director of the Office of National Drug Control Policy. Bennet once stated: \"why in God's name foster the use of a drug that makes you stupid?\"\n\nIn 1989, the Bush administration began Operation Green Merchant, a nationwide investigation and operation targeting businesses advertising specialized horticultural equipment that was supposedly used to grow cannabis. The program also traced lists of customers who had bought such materials, and raided their homes.\n\nIn 1990, the Bush administration began a program which called for states to further punish drug offenses, including cannabis use, with a six month driver's license suspension, and threatened to withhold federal highway funds from states that did not comply by 1995. Since the law did not require that the drug offense be at all related to driving, it was nicknamed \"Smoke a Joint, Lose Your License.\"\n\nIn 1978, the Carter Administration founded the Compassionate Investigational New Drug program to provide federally-produced cannabis grown by the University of Mississippi to a limited number of patients. In the 1980s, the list of approved recipients was expanded to include persons suffering from AIDS. The Bush administration closed the program to new applicants in 1992, possibly as a response to an increasing number of applicants suffering from AIDS who used cannabis to improve their appetites to counter wasting, and also in response to findings that cannabis was not medically effective. The director of Compassion IND, James O. Mason stated: \"If it is perceived that the Public Health Service is going around giving marijuana to folks, there would be a perception that this stuff can't be so bad.\"\n"}
{"id": "14675061", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14675061", "title": "Coordinating Council on Jerusalem", "text": "Coordinating Council on Jerusalem\n\nThe Coordinating Council on Jerusalem was a lobbying group launched on October 23 2007, in order to unite American Jewish organizations on behalf of a secure and unified Jerusalem. The creation of political strategist Jeff Ballabon, it was founded to provide a united public front of Jewish American organizations towards the principle of keeping Jerusalem united. Initial funding was provided by Rabbi Pesach Lerner, Executive Vice President of the National Council of Young Israel. It has been endorsed by hundreds of Jewish leaders in the Diaspora and Israel.\n\nIn preparation for the Annapolis Peace summit with Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas and United States Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice, ministers of Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Olmert’s government put forth their view that Jerusalem was negotiable and opened the door to concessions of parts of Jerusalem, including the Temple Mount, which is considered by many to be Judaism’s holiest site. Following his ministers’ remarks, Olmert himself questioned the value of maintaining Jewish sovereignty over certain Jerusalem neighborhoods. As a result, many Jewish leaders around the world who held to a policy of not publicly challenging decisions of Israel's government, have chosen to coalesce around the position: opposing Israeli negotiations which include any discussion of ceding sovereignty over part or all of Jerusalem.\n\nThrough his reading of the significance of negotiating on Jerusalem, Rabbi Lerner asked Jeffrey Ballabon, a nationally experienced strategist with expertise in issue campaigns, crisis management and government relations to recommend and execute a broad-based international strategy to ensure continued Israeli sovereignty over all of Jerusalem. As a first step, the two called for the creation of a body to coordinate and leverage efforts in Israel and the Diaspora to secure Jewish interests in Jerusalem’s future.\n\nThe formation of the Coordinating Council for Jerusalem marks the first time since the establishment of the State of Israel that a significant group of American Jewish organizations have created a broad united front to pursue a policy directly involving Israel that is based on an explicit principle that supersedes deference to the sitting Israeli government. Notably, many of the organizations on the Coordinating Council are among the State of Israel’s most loyal and active supporters.\n\nWithin hours of the announcement of their intent to create the Coordinating Council, Lerner and Ballabon were contacted by many groups, within the U.S. and Israel, which also had decided to coordinate their efforts against any Jerusalem negotiations.\n\nIn coordination with CCJ's efforts, a majority of the Israeli Knesset signed on to a letter declaring that they would not support any division of Jerusalem. Subsequently, the Knesset passed a law requiring a two-thirds supermajority of Knesset in order to make any changes to the borders or status of Jerusalem.\n\nCCJ also announced from the outset that it would be working closely and coordinating efforts with major Christian Zionist organizations and leaders.\n\nCCJ and CCJ member organizations have held meetings to put forward their position with U.S. national leaders, including former Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice, former President George W. Bush's National Security Adviser Stephen Hadley and former Deputy National Security Advisor Elliott Abrams, to inform them of the opposition to any negotiations that would cede any part of Jerusalem. Olmert has stated that American Jews and Jewish groups have no right or place to interfere with Israel's government matters.\n\nThe Coordinating Council on Jerusalem includes Americans for a Safe Israel, Association for Jewish Outreach Programs, Emunah of America, Hineni, Jerusalem Reclamation Project, National Conference of Synagogue Youth, National Council of Young Israel, One Israel Fund, Poalei Agudath Israel of America, Rabbinic Alliance to Save Jerusalem, Rabbinical Alliance of America, Rabbinical Council of America, Religious Zionists of America, Russian Jewish Community Foundation, Union of Orthodox Jewish Congregations (OU), Unity Coalition for Israel, Young Israel Council of Rabbis, and Zionist Organization of America.\n\nIn January 2008, Coordinating Council on Jerusalem publicly announced a strategic alliance with Natan Sharansky's One Jerusalem.\n\nWhile there is a steady group of supporters for the CCJ and its position, groups affiliated with the traditional Jewish left have stated opposition to CCJ and support for Olmert's position. Olmert himself was critical of CCJ and publicly denounced the involvement of Diaspora Jews within a few days of the announcement of the formation of CCJ. He subsequently backtracked on that position.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50204706", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50204706", "title": "Debate chamber", "text": "Debate chamber\n\nA debate chamber is a room for people to discuss and debate. Debate chambers are used in governmental and educational bodies, such as a parliament, congress, city council, or a university, either for formal proceedings or for informal discourse, such as a deliberative assembly. When used for legislative purposes, a debate chamber may also be known as a council chamber, legislative chamber, or similar term. Some countries, such as New Zealand, use the term debating chamber as a formal name for the room that houses the national legislature.\n\nDebating can happen almost anywhere. Whether informal or structured as a discourse between select individuals or small groups with an audience, debates often occur with an audience. The debate does not \"directly\" involve the audience as they are not participants - they may even be remote, watching on television. The \"debating chamber\" is where the debate participants engage: the stage, panel or council table, or the presentation station. The audience is separate, even if the lines between participants and audience are not always distinct. The positioning of the debating participants is normally oppositional (to each other) or side-by-side in a fan-shape with the focus being the moderator's table (or audience). If there is an audience present, the moderator is normally positioned to the side or with their back to the audience (or cameras). For this style of debate there are more than 2 and rarely more than approximately 15 participants. More than this typically involves a formally debating body or organization, such as a legislative body, which usually meets in a designated place or chamber, often purpose-built for this function.\n\nThe configuration of seating affects interpersonal communication on conscious and subconscious levels. For example, negotiations over the shape of a negotiation table delayed the Vietnam War peace talks for almost a year.\n\nInterpersonal communication involves both visual and aural senses. Our eyes and ears (our receptors) need to face our focus of interest. Our faces are important senders of both visual and information (e.g. expressions and voice). We confront and communication directly through \"face to face\" interaction with our facial sensors and projector \"tools\" aimed at our communication partner, whether friend or foe. The geometry of position can support or influence a position of opposition/confrontation, hierarchy/dominance, or collaboration/equality. Position can be locational or attitudinal, both, and be supportive or a determining factor of the other. The more direct this is, the more potentially oppositional the position. The less direct, the more \"shoulder to shoulder\" the position. A two-person (or two-group) meeting can be face-to-face (participants are 180 degrees apart, in opposition), side-by-side (participants are 0 degrees apart, in partnership), or between the two (participants are, for example, 90 degrees apart, in collaboration). Geometry dictates that a circular gathering with three participants provides the only non-oppositional configuration of more than two persons that allows equal sightlines (all 120 degrees apart). The more participants, the greater disparity of sightlines between those sitting immediately adjacent and those more directly across, whose position in turn becomes more oppositional.\n\nThis can be observed in debate chambers, meeting rooms, and at dining room or restaurant tables. With a long rectangular table, those seated at the \"head\" or \"end\" of the tables are in a position of dominance; they can see everybody, normally everybody can see them, but the others are restricted in seeing only those across from them. Circular, square, or elliptical shaped tables allow for more equal status and equality of line of sight. The smaller the group and setting, the more equality of participants and sight lines. Winston Churchill recognized this when as prime minister he insisted the British House of Commons be rebuilt (after wartime bombing) in a similar size and configuration to maintain the intimate form of debate and its adversarial which he believed was responsible for the creating the British form of government, the two-party, government-opposition system.\n\nWhether outdoors or in an enclosed space or chamber, such as a cave, it is likely that the earliest designated places for group discourse or debate occurred around a fire, for light, heat, or protection from predators. Throughout recorded history there have been a variety of places and spaces designated for similar purposes. An early gathering for assembly purposes was the Ecclesia of ancient Athens, a popular assembly open to all male citizens with two years of military service. This was held in an Ekklesiasterion, which varied from small amphitheaters to a variety of buildings, including ones that could accommodate over 5,000 people. These assemblies were also held in amphitheater-like, open air theaters. Bouleuterions, also translated as council house, assembly house, and senate house, was a building in ancient Greece which housed the council of citizens of a democratic city state. In Ancient Rome, the earliest recorded debating chamber was for the deliberative body of the Roman Senate.\n\nThe first official debating model that emerged (centuries later) after the fall of the Roman Empire was the Magnum Concilium, or Great Council, after the Norman Conquest of England in 1066. These were convened at certain times of the year when church leaders and wealthy landowners were invited to discuss the affairs of the country with the king (of England, Normandy, and France). In the 13th century this developed into the Parliament of England (concilium regis in parliamento). Similar models emerged at roughly the same time with the Parliament of Scotland and Parliament of Ireland. These were later consolidated into the Parliament of Britain and the current Parliament of the United Kingdom (or British Parliament). The system of government that emerged in this model is known as the Westminster system. In Europe, similar models to parliament emerged, termed \"Diet\" and Thing, or Ting, \"thing\" derived from old Norse for \"appointed time\" or \"assembly\". The \"parliament\" that claims to have the longest continuous existence is the Tynwald of the Isle of Man. In 19th century Russia, the Duma emerged to perform similar advisory functions to the monarch.\n\nIn the 14th century, the king of France established the Estates General, a legislative and consultative assembly of the different classes (or \"estates\") of French subjects. In the 18th Century French Revolution, this was transformed into the National Assembly (1789), the National Constituent Assembly (1789-1791), the Legislative Assembly (1971-1792), the National Convention (1792-1795), the Council of Five Hundred (1795-1799), and eventually the tricameral (three-house) French Consulate during the reign of Napolean Bonaparte. These bodies met in a variety of palaces, a riding academy, a large theater, and a tennis court.\n\nIn the late 18th century the United States of America established the U.S. Congress, a bicameral legislative model that would form the template of many newly emergent republics around the world. The form adopted involved two legislative bodies, each with its own chamber. The lower house, the U.S. House of Representatives, was intended to provide representation based on population. The upper house, the U.S. Senate, was intended to provide more deliberative oversight on legislation and was to represent the States (equally). Each was created and its chambers designed before political parties were well established.\n\nThe names given to debating places or spaces may refer to an activity, such as assembly or debating; it may refer to the persons performing that activity, such as \"noblemen\" (\"Oireachtas\" in Ireland), lords, or estates; or it may refer to both, such as Senate (derived from the Latin for \"elder\", and \"assembly\"). Some examples of the more common names for debating spaces:\n\n\nThere are several common configurations of seating used in debate chambers: auditorium, rectangular, fan-shaped, circular, and hybrids. The shapes of the room vary and do not necessarily reflect or match the seat configurations. The architectural design of the chamber can shape the style of debating: a semicircular design may promote discussion for the purpose of reaching a consensus, while an arrangement with two opposing sides may promote adversarial debating.\n\nThe auditorium form of seating (and chamber) is a large audience facing a stage, often with a proscenium. The model is similar to direct instruction whereby the communication is unidirectional without active interaction or debate. Response is limited to applause or speakers coming onto the stage, from the audience or backstage, to provide a subsequent presentation to the audience. Given the scale and format, there is little opportunity for any direct discourse.\n\nExamples and images: USSR Supreme Soviet\nThe council and courtroom configuration of seating is one that fosters interaction between the \"panel\" (court, council, board, or other officials) and the public. The panel members may debate or engage in discourse amongst themselves, particularly in a council of elected officials, but that is not normally the main portion of discourse. The more linear the seating arrangement is, the less supportive of it is for discourse. City Council chamber are less likely to use a linear configuration whereas judges in a court of law (where there is more than one judge in a sitting) frequently sit in a straight or nearly straight line.\n\n\"Examples and images:\"\nThe rectangular (bifurcated) seating configuration comprises two opposing rows of seats or benches facing towards a central aisle which bisects the room. At one end is commonly found a chair, throne, or podium for a Speaker, a monarch or president, or chairperson, respectively. This format is used in the Westminster style of parliamentary debating chambers, such as in the Parliaments of the UK, Canada, Australia, New Zealand, and other former British colonies. In this configuration, on one side of the aisle is the government and the other the opposition. This supports oppositional or divided groupings, from which emerged in the 19th century the two-party political system in the UK, and its dominions and colonies. Each person speaking is nominally directing his or her comments towards the speaker, but they do so facing the opposing members with their own group facing the same way they are. Without having one's own side turn around, it is not possible to face all members of the chamber simultaneously. In the British Parliament, the traditional method of recorded voting is called \"division of the assembly\" is by members placing themselves in separate rooms called \"division lobbies\", one each for the \"Ayes\" and \"Noes\". (This is derived from the Roman Senate which voted by division, by a senator seating himself on one side of the chamber or the other to indicate a vote.\n\nCommon folklore speaks of the aisle between the government and the opposition sides as being \"two sword lengths\", or \"two sword lengths plus an inch\", apart, although there is no record of this being a criterion.\n\nExamples and images: House of Commons of Canada, Senate of Canada\n\nA hybrid of the bifurcated and semi-circular seating configurations combines a central aisle with a curved end at one end facing the focal point (e.g. Speaker's chair) at the other.\nAnother hybrid form is one that is rectangular, but not bi-furcated; the overall arrangement is rectangular, as is each of the three seat groupings. For example, in both the lower house of the Czech Republic's Chamber of Deputies and in the Palace of Assembly at Chandigarh, India, the seating arrangement is a series of straight rows all facing inward in three groupings, two on either side of a central aisle and one at the end facing the podium.\n\nExamples and images: India's Lok Sabha, Australia's House of Representatives, National Assembly of South Africa, Legislative Assembly of Manitoba.\n\nThe hemicycle or semi-circular seating configuration originated in late 18th century France when the post-revolutionary leaders selected the amphitheater form as one that would symbolize and foster unity, in contrast to the \"impression of parliamentary fragmentation\" of the British configuration. This configuration was soon emulated in other parts of Europe and in the United States Congress, the Capitol Building being designed by French architect Benjamin Latrobe. This adoption of the ancient Greek theater form coincided with the Greek revival movements in architecture, including literal use of the symbology of the ancient democracy.\nIts form allows for presentation by a single person, or small group, to speak or present to all members of the chamber on a face-to-face basis from a podium (or similar element) at the focal point of the room. The primary hierarchy of position is largely distance from the podium, and is not in a position of support or opposition. This position gives pride of place to the podium, is not inherently partisan, and if each member of the group is given the chance to address the group, everyone has a (theoretically) equal position.\n\nExamples and images: France's Chamber of Deputies, U.S. Senate, German Bundestag, South Africa's National Council of Provinces\n\nCircular seating configurations for places of discourse have been envisioned as early as the 12th Century story of the Knights of the Round Table. As with many later versions, this was intended to be a collaborative forum. In the late 1940s, facilities for the United Nations Security Council, a body formed during and immediately after the world's greatest conflict, were designed to support collaboration and avoid confrontation.\n\nSince the early 1990s, several debating chambers have been constructed that support, or were designed to support, consensus-style or collaboration-style discourse and government. These include legislative assembly facilities for indigenous and non-indigenous peoples in Northern Canada, Great Britain, and Polynesia. Most are for bodies that do not involve formal political parties.\n\nExamples and images: United Nations Security Council, Senedd of Wales, Wilp Si A'yuukhl Nisga'a), Legislative Assembly of Nunavut, Legislative Assembly of the Northwest Territories, meeting halls of the Society of Friends, National Parliament of the Solomon Islands.\nThe introduction of regular live television broadcasts of legislative chambers, which began with the Canadian House of Commons in 1977, has influenced debate and extended the audience well beyond the physical location of the debate chamber. More recently this has developed into direct two-way communication in small and large meeting rooms (virtual events), and even through personal hand-held devices into nearly every corner of the world. This has both changed the nature of the physical nature of the debating environment into a digital and virtual one, and in a non-literal sense into a series of ever-changing and highly varied configuration and collection of spaces determined by where each debate participant happens to be located. This may also have the added effect of drawing others into the debate, whether as passive observers or active participants, unwittingly, uninvited, or by active invitation of a single participant. For those meetings or debates who remain grounded in a structured location, such as a conference room or legislative chamber who connect to one or several remote participants via video-conferencing, the configuration of the room may be re-focused onto the video screen and away from those in the room.\n\n"}
{"id": "2906161", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2906161", "title": "Democratic Labour Party (UK)", "text": "Democratic Labour Party (UK)\n\nThe Democratic Labour Party was a small British left-wing political party in Walsall, sometimes known as the Walsall Democratic Labour Party. It was founded as a breakaway from the Labour Party after left-wing members were expelled in the mid-90s.\n\nDave Church (known as \"Citizen Dave\"), his deputy John Rothery, and others on the left of Walsall Labour Party had supported a policy of radical decentralisation of power since the early 1980s, but the right-wing of the party had held power as Metropolitan Borough of Walsall councillors, preventing the enactment of the policies. In May 1995, after three years during which the left-wing councillors were suspended from the party for 'operating their own caucus', the left gained control of the council. They sacked nine council department heads, proposing to replace them with 54 directly-elected neighbourhood councils. The spectre of the \"Loony left\" alarmed Labour Party central office, who suspended the district party that August. Church faced claims of 'intimidation tactics', and Church, Rothery and Brian Powell were expelled from the Labour Party by the National Executive Committee in November 1995 for running a \"party within a party\" called the Walsall Socialist Group. Eleven councillors in all broke away from the Labour Party.\n\nThe Democratic Labour Party was officially registered in 1999.\n\nNone of the 10 Democratic Labour candidates in the 1998 local elections won a seat, losing four seats including that of the deputy leader John Rothery to Labour. Labour returned to overall control of the council, and Democratic Labour were left with six councillors. The party lost its remaining seats in the 1999 election, three to Labour and three to the Conservatives, and despite standing 15 candidates at the 2000 election did not win back any seats.\n\nJoined by other local left-wingers, they helped set up their local Socialist Alliance, and stood as candidates under its banner in elections until it was disbanded. Dave Church stood for the Socialist Alliance in Walsall North in the 2001 general election, gaining 410 votes (1.3%).\n\nIn the 2005 general election, Church stood for Democratic Labour, again in Walsall North, receiving 770 votes (2.3%).\n\nIn 2007, Pete Smith won a council seat on Walsall Council from Labour in the Blakenall ward. Smith also stood in Walsall North and gained 842 votes, 2.3% of the vote at the 2010 general election. He lost his council seat in 2011 but was re-elected in 2012 on an anti-cuts platform; the DLP then affiliated to the Trade Unionist and Socialist Coalition.\nIn 2016 the DLP effectively ceased to exist for a second time when Smith lost his council seat in the local elections.\n"}
{"id": "7764514", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7764514", "title": "Directorate-General for Interpretation", "text": "Directorate-General for Interpretation\n\nThe Directorate-General for Interpretation (shortly called DG Interpretation and commonly abbreviated as SCIC for its former French name \"Service Commun Interprétation-Conférences\") is a Directorate-General of the European Commission. It is the European Commission's interpreting service and conference organiser and provides interpreters for around 11,000 meetings every year, thus being the largest interpreting service in the world.\n\nDG Interpretation manages the allocation of Commission meeting rooms and provides support for the smooth running of meetings in many languages that are held there. It also organises conferences for Directorates-General and departments of the Commission, typically in the range of over 40 main events per year.\n\nAs of 2013, head of DG Interpretation is Marco Benedetti, Director-General, and it refers to Androulla Vassiliou, European Commissioner for Education, Culture, Multilingualism and Youth.\n\n"}
{"id": "53746276", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53746276", "title": "Ebrahim Raisi presidential campaign, 2017", "text": "Ebrahim Raisi presidential campaign, 2017\n\nEbrahim Raisi, chairman of Astan Quds Razavi launched his election campaign for 2017 presidential election in April 2017.\n\nIn February 2017, Ebrahim Raisi was said to be backed by the Front of Islamic Revolution Stability and emerging as the conservative camp consensus candidate. A senior member of the front told press that his party tried to “persuade Ebrahim Raisi to run in the elections, but did not succeed”. On 23 February 2017, Raisi won the majority of votes during the meeting held by Popular Front of Islamic Revolution Forces, a newly established umbrella organization of conservatives.\n\n50 out of the 88 members of the Assembly of Experts, whose names has not been disclosed, have signed a letter supporting Raisi for president in March 2017.\n\nRaisi's campaign pursues a populist agenda.\n\nIt focuses on presenting him as a symbol of Mohammad Beheshti, Iran's chief justice assassinated in 1981. His campaign portrays him as \"man of the people\"; when Mashhad was hit by an earthquake in early April, he cancelled his meeting in Tehran and said “it is necessary to be with the religious people of this land”.\n\nRaisi has publicized pictures of his visits to poverty-stricken areas in remote villages, and opening an apartment complex for the families of Afghan fighters killed in Syrian civil war.\n\nOn 17 April 2017, Raisi wrote an open letter to Hassan Rouhani, recommending him to “observe moral codes”. Raisi's campaign symbol is \"National identity card\".\nOn 15 May 2017, conservative candidate Mohammad Bagher Ghalibaf withdrew his candidacy in favor of Raisi. It is speculation that Ghalibaf will be Raisi's first vice president if he elect. They also joined in a campaign rally in Tehran with each other.\n\nIranian moderates and reformists have criticized Iran's state-run television, Islamic Republic of Iran Broadcasting (IRIB), for \"excessively reporting\" on Raisi. According to \"Etemaad\" newspaper, the television has been showing Raisi as the prayer Imam regularly in recent days. Raisi however wrote an open letter to IRIB head Abdulali Ali-Asgari, claiming it has 'biased advertisements' toward Rouhani because of coverage of his speeches as the President of Iran.\n\nIn March 2017, a determined campaign began in social media with circulating pictures of mostly young people, including liberal-looking women loosely wearing a \"hijab\", holding pictures with the hashtag #RaisiCome ().\n\nRaisi has said “I see the activation of a resistance economy as the only way to end poverty and deprivation in the country”. He supports development of the agricultural sector, rather than spending money on shopping malls, which “will eventually benefit foreign brands”. Raisi sees economic sanctions as an opportunity.\n\nHe has promised to triple the monthly state benefits, currently 450,000 rials per citizen, to tackle corruption and create six million jobs.\n\nAnswering reporters about his foreign policy, he said it “would be to establish ties with every country except Israel”.\n\nEbrahim Raisi is one of the supporters of Sex segregation. He said in a 2014 interview that \"I think this is a good move because the majority of women do a better job in a totally relaxed atmosphere and fit are required\", said about a plan segregation in Tehran Municipality. He is also supporter of Islamization of universities, revision of the Internet and deal with Western culture.\n\n\n\n\n\nRaisi's practice of distributing flour among the poor has been criticized and compared to Mahmoud Ahmadinejad's similar distribution of potatoes before 2009 presidential election.\n"}
{"id": "8627581", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8627581", "title": "Elterngeld", "text": "Elterngeld\n\nElterngeld (translated literally from German as \"parents' money\"), is a tax-financed payment for couples which pays an amount of money to support the costs of bringing up a child. Elterngeld schemes exists in Germany, France, and Scandinavia.\n\nIt generally does not provide full support of the costs of bringing up a child. It is only provided for a limited period, ranging from until one year after birth until 18 years of age in Norway. The amount of Elterngeld granted depends in some places on the income of the parents.\n\nThe need for Elterngeld schemes is illustrated by the declining birth rates in Western European countries. For instance, in Germany the present birth rate is 1.3 children per woman, which is below what is calculated at the economically stable rate of 2.1 children per woman. 25 European Union states currently have birth rates below this level. The issues behind the declining birth rate include the higher costs of maintaining a child, and the greater dependence within the household budget economically on women.\n\nElterngeld is effectively a third state-level subsidy for some parents – on top of maternity allowance and state income benefits. Economists argue that this has created a complex and costly system of state benefit which could be simplified and reduced in expenses.\n\nEconomists and critics also argue that the allowance creates shifting birth patterns. In December 2006, media reports suggested that German parents were seeking ways to delay the births of their children until 1 January 2007, so that they would gain access to Elterngeld of up to 25,200 euros (two-thirds of their former salary for up to a year), up from 7,200 euros per annum.\n\n\nSeveral proposals have been offered to use elterngeld-style payments to combat the effects of sex-selective abortion in Asia.\n\n"}
{"id": "2478339", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2478339", "title": "Estimate of the Situation", "text": "Estimate of the Situation\n\nThe Estimate of the Situation was a document supposedly written in 1948 by the personnel of United States Air Force's Project Sign - including the project's director, Captain Robert R. Sneider - which explained their reasons for concluding that the extraterrestrial hypothesis was the best explanation for unidentified flying objects.\n\nAs late as 1960, USAF personnel stated that the document never existed. However, several Air Force officers, and one consultant, claim the report as being a real document that was suppressed. Jenny Randles and Peter Hough describe the \"Estimate\" as the \"Holy Grail of ufology\" and state that Freedom of Information Act requests for the document have been fruitless.\n\nThough Sign investigated earlier UFO reports, historian David M. Jacobs writes that the highly publicized Chiles-Whitted UFO Encounter of July 24, 1948 \"had a great impact at Sign\". In that encounter, two experienced airline pilots claimed a torpedo-shaped object nearly collided with their commercial airplane. Sign personnel judged the report convincing and compelling, partly because the alleged object also closely matched the description of an independent sighting from The Hague a few days earlier.\n\nAccording to Michael D. Swords, Sign personnel \"intensely investigated\" the Chiles-Whitted sighting for several months. Despite the lack of physical evidence, some Sign personnel judged this and other UFO reports quite persuasive, and concluded that UFOs could have only a non-earthly source.\n\nSwords writes,\n\nGiven that there was no evidence that either the U.S. or the U.S.S.R. had anything remotely like the UFOs reported, Sign personnel gradually began considering extraterrestrial origins for the objects.\n\nSwords argues that this consideration of non-earthly origin was \"not as incredible in intelligence circles as one might think.\" Because many in the military were \"pilots, engineers and technical people\" they had a \"'can do' attitude\" and tended to regard unavailable technologies not as impossibilities, but as challenges to be overcome. Rather than dismissing UFO reports out of hand, they considered how such objects might function. This perspective, argues Swords, \"contrasted markedly with many scientists' characterizations of such concepts as impossible, unthinkable or absurd.\"\n\nAccording to Ruppelt, the \"Estimate\" was rejected by Vandenberg primarily due to lack of supporting physical evidence, and was \"batted back down\" the chain of command. In a letter dated November 3, 1948, Cabell wrote to Sign, via McCoy, describing flying saucers as real, but rejecting the interplanetary hypothesis and asking for another Estimate.\n\nCabell wrote:\nMcCoy responded in a somewhat defensive letter dated November 8, 1948. He noted that many of the UFO reports were misidentified everyday phenomena (see Identified flying object), but also restated the rejected ideas of the \"Estimate\" without explicitly endorsing the interplanetary hypothesis; as Swords writes,\" [Project Sign] just had their knuckles rapped, so they defended themselves.\"\n\nMcCoy wrote,\nWhen Sign personnel refused to abandon the interplanetary hypothesis, many were reassigned, and Sign was renamed Project Grudge in 1949. According to Ruppelt, \"The \"Estimate\" died a quick death. Some months later it was completely declassified and relegated to the incinerator. A few copies, one of which I saw, were kept as mementos of the golden days of the UFOs.\"\n\nThe first public report of the \"Estimate\" was in Captain Edward J. Ruppelt's 1956 book, \"The Report on Unidentified Flying Objects\".\n\nHe wrote:\nClark notes that \"No copies of this near-legendary document have surfaced since.\"\n\nRuppelt's 1956 book, which first publicly disclosed the \"Estimate\", was cleared by the Air Force. Clark writes, that as late as 1960, Air Force officials denied that the \"Estimate\" was real, despite the fact that censors had approved Ruppelt's book a few years before. According to Clark, the U.S. Air Force later formally admitted the \"Estimate\" was real, but Clark's bibliography does not make clear what statement or document confirmed the \"Estimate\"s reality.\n\nAdditionally, according to Clark, the \"Estimate\"s existence was confirmed by U.S. Air Force Major Dewey J. Fournet, who as an Air Force major in the Pentagon served as liaison with official UFO project headquartered at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base in Dayton, Ohio. Fournet has been described as being \"unimpressed\" with the \"Estimate\", and was furthermore quoted as describing the ET conclusion as an \"extreme extrapolation\" based on scant evidence.\n\nAn Air Force consultant, astronomer Dr. Allen Hynek, also verified the \"Estimate\"s existence.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19326372", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19326372", "title": "Fassa Association", "text": "Fassa Association\n\nFassa Association (\"Associazione Fassa\"), often referred simply as Fassa (\"Fassa\"), is a minor Christian-democratic political party in Trentino, Italy. The party seeks to represent the Ladin minority in the Province and especially Ladins living in Fassa Valley.\n\nFassa was formed as Fassa List (\"Lista Fassa\") in August 2008 as a centre-right alternative to the centre-left Ladin Autonomist Union (UAL), which used to garner a large majority of Ladin votes in Fassa Valley. Its first leader was Gino Fontana, mayor of Vigo di Fassa and, formerly, provincial councillor for Daisy Civic List, a centrist party aligned with the centre-left. A year later, the List was institutionalised and became a fully fledged party under the current name.\n\nIn the 2008 provincial election the party won 0.6% of the vote (26.6% in Fassa Valley), while the UAL gained 1.2% (54.0%).\n\nIn March 2012 the party replaced its leadership during an assembly: Elena Testor was elected president and Luca Guglielmi secretary. In September 2013 Riccardo Franceschetti, mayor of Moena and leading member of the UAL, left that party in order to join Fassa.\n\nIn the 2013 provincial election the party won 0.8% of the vote (31.9% in Fassa Valley), but still lost to the UAL, which gained 1.1% (51.8%).\n\nHowever, in 2015, the party prevailed over the UAL in the first Fassa community election and Testor was elected Attorney General.\n\nIn the Italian constitutional referendum, 2016 won Fassa supported the No with 57.9 % against the UAL supported Yes in Fassa Valley.\n\nIn the 2018 general election Testor, affiliated to Forza Italia, was elected to the Italian Senate from the single-seat constituency of Pergine Valsugana.\n\nResults are expressed in %.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27354212", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27354212", "title": "Fatwa on Terrorism", "text": "Fatwa on Terrorism\n\nThe Fatwa on Terrorism and Suicide Bombings is a 600-page (Urdu version), 512-page (English version) Islamic decree by scholar Muhammad Tahir-ul-Qadri which demonstrates from the Quran and Sunnah that terrorism and suicide bombings are unjust and evil, and thus un-Islamic. It was published in London as a book. The English edition was published in the UK by Minhaj-ul-Quran Publications. Qadri released the fatwa on 2 March 2010. \n\nThis fatwa is a direct refutation of the ideology of Al-Qaeda and the Taliban. It is one of the most extensive Islamic anti-terrorism rulings, an \"absolute\" condemnation of terrorism without \"any excuses or pretexts\" which goes further than ever and declares that terrorism is kufr under Islamic law. The launch was organised by Minhaj-ul-Quran UK. Qadri said during the launch that \"Terrorism is terrorism, violence is violence and it has no place in Islamic teaching and no justification can be provided for it, or any kind of excuses or ifs or buts.\"\nThe fatwa received widespread media attention and was positively covered by the international press.\n\nAccording to CNN, some experts see the fatwa as a significant blow to terrorist recruiting. CNN's Amanpour show added the fatwa summary to its website and declared it to be fatwa for peace, while the US State Department declares the fatwa to be significant step in taking Islam back from terrorists.\n\nBefore it had been released, Douglas Murray described the Fatwa on Terrorism, in an article in the \"Evening Standard\", as \"potentially important\", although he said \"A single-fatwa will not change the level of denial and self criticism inherent in so much of modern Islam\".\n\nITV news channel questioned the credibility of the fatwa and asks if it was not by the British government because senior counter-terrorism officials from Scotland Yard and MI5 were present at the launch.\n\nThe 512-page English book version of the fatwa, \"Fatwa on Terrorism and Suicide Bombings\", (London: Minhaj-ul-Quran, 2011. ) has a foreword by John Esposito and an introduction by Joel Hayward, both of whom share Qadri's scholarly assessment that, regardless of any intention, the evil of terrorism remains evil and must be exposed, opposed and condemned.\n\nThe Fatwa on Terrorism has been officially endorsed by Al-Azhar University in Cairo, Egypt. In January 2011, the fatwa was discussed at the World Economic Forum Annual Meeting 2011. In June 2011, Pope Benedict XVI received a copy of the fatwa from representatives of Minhaj Interfaith Relations. The Pope reportedly appreciated that it promoted peace, harmony and interfaith dialogue.\n\nThe Fatwa on Terrorism has been reviewed positively by international scholars including Kemal Argon who published a review in \"The Journal of Rotterdam Islamic and Social Sciences\", Vol. 2, No. 1, 2011, pp. 149–160. Islamic University of Rotterdam, Netherlands.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "163267", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=163267", "title": "Free State Project", "text": "Free State Project\n\nThe Free State Project (FSP) is a proposed political migration founded in 2001 to recruit at least 20,000 libertarians to move to a single low-population state (New Hampshire, selected in 2003) in order to make the state a stronghold for libertarian ideas. The project seeks to overcome the historical ineffectiveness of limited government activism which they believe was caused by the small number and diffuse population of libertarian activists across the 50 United States and around the world.\n\nParticipants sign a statement of intent declaring that they intend to move to New Hampshire within five years of the drive reaching 20,000 participants. This statement of intent is intended to function as a form of assurance contract. , 20,000 people have signed this statement of intent—completing the original goal—and 1,909 people are listed as \"early movers\" to New Hampshire on the FSP website, saying they had made their move prior to the 20,000-participant trigger. Approximately a dozen Free Staters were elected to the New Hampshire House of Representatives in the 2012 election and about 18 in the 2014 election.\n\nThe FSP is a social movement generally based upon decentralized decision making. The group hosts various events, but most of FSP's activities depend upon volunteers, and no formal plan dictates to participants or movers what their actions should be in New Hampshire.\n\nThe FSP mission statement, adopted in 2005, states: \n\n\"Life, liberty, and property\" are rights that were enumerated in the October 1774 Declaration and Resolves of the First Continental Congress and in Article 12 of the New Hampshire Constitution.\n\nTo become a participant of the Free State Project, a person is asked to agree to the Statement of Intent (SOI): \n\nThe FSP is open to people with a minimum age of 18 and United States citizenship is not required; people who promote violence, racial hatred, or bigotry are not welcome in the FSP.\n\nThe Free State Project was founded in 2001 by Jason Sorens, then a Ph.D. student at Yale University. Sorens published an article in \"The Libertarian Enterprise\" highlighting the failure of libertarians to elect any candidate to federal office and outlining his ideas for a secessionist movement, calling people to respond to him with interest. Sorens soon published a follow-up article backing away from secession, \"and it never played a role in the FSP’s philosophy from then on.\" Sorens has stated that the movement continues an American tradition of political migration, which includes groups such as Mormon settlers in Utah, Amish religious communities and the \"Jamestown Seventy\", an earlier effort to influence the politics of a particular state through deliberate migration.\nThe organization began without a specific state in mind. A systematic review started by narrowing potential states to those with a population of less than 1.5 million and those where the combined spending in 2000 by the Democratic and Republican parties was less than $5.2 million, the total national spending by the Libertarian Party in that year. Hawaii and Rhode Island were eliminated from this list because of their propensity for centralized government.\n\nIn September 2003, the state vote was held and participants voted using the Condorcet method to choose the state. New Hampshire was the winner, with Wyoming coming in second by a 57% to 43% margin. Alaska, Delaware, Idaho, Maine, Montana, North Dakota, South Dakota and Vermont were also on the list.\n\nNew Hampshire was chosen because the perceived individualist culture of the state was thought to resonate well with libertarian ideals. However, the Free State Project has drawn criticism from some New Hampshire residents concerned about population pressure and opposition to increased taxation. On the other hand, some Republicans have responded more favorably to the project because they also favor a small government.\n\nIn December 2012, state representative Cynthia Chase (D-Keene) said \"Free Staters are the single biggest threat the state is facing today. There is, legally, nothing we can do to prevent them from moving here to take over the state, which is their openly stated goal. In this country you can move anywhere you choose and they have that same right. What we can do is to make the environment here so unwelcoming that some will choose not to come, and some may actually leave. One way is to pass measures that will restrict the “freedoms” that they think they will find here\".\n\nIn 2012, the Concord Police Department applied for $258,000 in federal government funding to buy a Lenco BearCat armored vehicle for protection against terrorist attacks, riots, or shooting incidents. The application said: \"Groups such as the Sovereign Citizens, Free Staters and Occupy New Hampshire are active and present daily challenges\". The grant from the United States Department of Homeland Security was successful and the Concord City Council unanimously approved of the grant after having revised the application to remove references to those political movements.\n\nIn September 2014, Republican Party Senate nominee Scott Brown, a former United States Senator from Massachusetts, said his election campaign needed \"Freestaters\" to support him in his one-minute closing statement at the Granite State Debate.\n\nOn February 3, 2016, the Free State Project announced via social media that 20,000 people had signed the Statement of Intent. In a press conference later that day, then FSP president Carla Gericke officially announced that the move had been triggered and that signers were expected to follow up on their pledge. The project organization will change focus from recruiting signers to encouraging them to move to New Hampshire, stating \"we want 20,000 movers\".\n\nThe Free State Project aligns itself with no political party, takes no official political positions, supports no candidates in elections and neither supports nor opposes any particular legislation.\n\nThe Free State Project receives its funding from individual donors interested in moving as part of the FSP or attending one of the annual events. Donations are tax deductible as the FSP is a tax-exempt nonprofit educational organization, falling under category 501(c)(3). This affects all donations since July 20, 2009.\n\nSeveral early movers have been elected to the New Hampshire legislature. In 2006, one of its participants, Joel Winters, was elected to the state legislature, running as a Democrat. He was re-elected in 2008, but defeated in 2010. In 2010, 12 Republican Free Staters were elected to the New Hampshire House of Representatives.\n\nOn December 5, 2012, Free Stater and self-described anarchist Tim O'Flaherty was elected to the state House of Representatives under the Democratic Party ticket, representing Manchester Ward 5. He was defeated for re-election in 2014.\n\nIn 2012, elected participants wrote and passed House Bill 418 which requires state agencies to consider open source software and data formats when making acquisitions. However, it died in the Senate.\n\nThe Free State Project is the official organizer of two annual events in New Hampshire:\n\nIn 2006, Democrat Joel Winters became the first known free stater to become elected to the 400-member New Hampshire House of Representatives. Every two years, the entire House is up for election. In 2010, 12 Free Staters were elected. In 2012, 11 more were elected. In 2014, at least 18 were elected. In 2016, at least 15 were elected (out of 32).\n\n\n\n\nOn February 17, 2006, economist Walter Block publicly expressed his support for the FSP and is quoted as saying:\nJeffrey Tucker reflected about his experiences at the New Hampshire Liberty Forum in Nashua, saying in part: \"If you are willing to look past mainstream media coverage of American politics, you can actually find exciting and interesting activities taking place that rise above lobbying, voting, graft and corruption\".\n\nThe project has been endorsed by Ron Paul and Gary Johnson.\n\nIn 2010, Lew Rockwell from the Mises Institute endorsed the project and referred to the city of Keene, New Hampshire as \"The northern capital of libertarianism\".\n\nIn 2011, Peter Schiff said he had considered moving at one point.\n\nCritics argue that the Free State Project is \"radical\", a \"fantasy\", or that they \"go too far\" in seeking to restrict government.\n\nThe Free State Project was the centerpiece of the 2011 documentary film \"Libertopia\" as well as the 2014 crowdfunded documentary \"101 Reasons: Liberty Lives in New Hampshire\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2064394", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2064394", "title": "Great Coalition", "text": "Great Coalition\n\nThe Great Coalition was a grand coalition of political parties that brought the two Canadas together (Canada East and Canada West) in 1864. The previous collapse after only three months of a coalition government formed by George-Étienne Cartier and Conservative John A. Macdonald and liberal George Brown, (the sixth government in six years) had demonstrated that continued governance of Canada East and Canada West under the 1840 Act of Union had become untenable. In order to reform the political system, a coalition was formed between the Clear Grits under George Brown, the Parti bleu under George-Étienne Cartier, and the Liberal-Conservatives under John A. Macdonald. The formation of this coalition took place between June 14 and June 30, 1864 and was officially completed on June 22, 1864 under George-Étienne Cartier and John A. Macdonald, as the colonies of the Canadas, and was significant to Canadian Confederation in 1867. The coalition persisted by the government of the Province of Canada until the moment of Confederation.\n\nThe Great Coalition was created to eradicate the political deadlock between Canada West and Canada East. The government at that time was unable to pass any legislation because of the need for a double majority. In order for a bill to pass in the Legislative Assembly, there had to be a vote in both Canada East and Canada West sections of the assembly. As the French and the English could never agree on anything, this caused political deadlock. This coalition was intended to create resolution with long-term impacts in solving some of these problems and unify Canada.\n\nThe deadlock led to three conferences that preceded confederation. The first was the Charlottetown Conference, which was convened for the purpose of negotiating a Maritime union. However, the politicians began to discuss the possibility of a larger union that would include all of British North America. This continued at the Quebec Conference where they further discussed the union of British North America and defined the details of the government's shape. They also settled on the division of provincial and federal responsibilities. The London Conference revised the Quebec Resolutions.\n"}
{"id": "5316598", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5316598", "title": "Historians Against the War", "text": "Historians Against the War\n\nHistorians Against the War is a network of history teachers, scholars, and activists seeking to bring historical analysis to bear on U.S. foreign policy and its social/political impact.\n\nHAW has issued several statements on which membership in the organization has been based.\n\nHistorians Against the War (HAW) was founded in Chicago, Illinois at the 2003 Annual Meeting of the American Historical Association. A group of historians drafted the following statement which 2209 people subsequently signed:\n\nAfter the start of the 2003 Iraq War, HAW drafted a new Statement on the U.S. Occupation of Iraq:\n\nHAW's Steering Committee issued this statement on July 27, 2006 on the Israel/Palestine/Lebanon fighting.\n\nIn the spring of 2009, the steering committee of HAW drafted a new mission statement and put it to the vote of the signatories of the original statement. It passed with overwhelming support.\n\nHAW is led by a 20-member steering committee elected by the membership every January. The steering committee is allowed by its rules to invite additional members. The steering committee is headed by two co-chairs (currently Jim O'Brien of the University of Massachusetts Boston and Marc Becker of Truman State University). The steering committee forms ad hoc working groups as needed to organize events, draft statements and do other work.\n\nCurrently, voting membership is defined as encompassing all those who have signed the 2009 HAW mission statement.\n\nHAW has held two national conferences , the first in 2006 and the second in 2008.\n\nThe first HAW conference \"Empire, Resistance, and the War in Iraq: A Conference for Historians and Activists\" was held at the University of Texas, Austin, February 17–19, 2006. This was the first scholarly conference in the U.S. to examine the origins of and opposition to the war in Iraq in historical perspective. It featured a plenary session with Howard Zinn.\n\nThe HAW's second conference \"War and Its Discontents: Understanding Iraq and the U.S. Empire\" was held at Georgia State University in Atlanta in April 11–13, 2008. It was co-sponsored by the Peace History Society. About 150 people came for the conference, and about 200 additional people to the Friday evening keynote plenary featuring Bill Fletcher Jr. and Naomi Klein. In addition to four plenary sessions, 21 panels and workshops were held in four time slots on Saturday and Sunday. Presenters included people from 46 different colleges and universities as well as several high schools and non-academic activists.\n\nHAW's first publication was Stuart Schaar and Marvin E. Gettleman, \"Annotated Bibliography of English-Language Sources and Studies on The Middle East and Muslim South West Asia\", subsequently revised Spring 2007\n\nIn 2004, HAW member Margaret Power produced \"Torture American Style\" .\n\nIn June 2006, HAW member Carl Mirra edited \"Join Us? Testimonies of Iraq War Veterans and Their Families\" for HAW's Oral History Working Group . A shortened on-line version was carried in Artvoice, an alternative weekly in Buffalo, NY. Mirra also put together \"Conducting Oral History with Iraq War Veterans and Their Families: A Brief Guide\" for the Oral History Working Group .\n\nAlan Dawley wrote \"Why Peace Movements Are Important\" for the History News Network in March 2006 .\n\nHAW also published \"The Bush - Cheney Years\", A Historians Against the War Roundtable at the American Historical Association Annual Meeting, January 3, 2009, New York, NY, with contributions by Alice Kessler - Harris (Columbia University), David Montgomery (Yale University), Vijay Prashad (Trinity College), Ellen Schrecker (Yeshiva University), Barbara Weinstein (New York University) .\n\nHAW also issued an occasional electronic Newsletter. One in October 2005, edited by Jeri Fogel, consisting of documents and reflections on HAW members' participation in the September 24, 2005 antiwar demonstration in Washington; and one in January 2006, edited by Alan Dawley, consisting of reports on HAW's participation in the AHA convention in Philadelphia. In September 2006, the name of the electronic newsletter was changed to HAW Notes.\n\nHAW stimulated dozens of campus teach-ins, forums, and other events on campus related to the Iraq War . In the fall of 2006 over forty campuses held educational events or teach ins to educate students and faculty about the war and what they could do to oppose it. Part of the organizing effort was to compile and post a list of about sixty experts on the war, on US foreign policy, and on the antiwar movement who were willing to speak at campus events.\n\nHAW co-sponsored with War Times a September 19, 2008 teach-in on the Iraq War in Berkeley, as part of a week of Bay Area events marking the 40th anniversary of 1968 and its social movements worldwide.\n\nHAW was a member of United for Peace and Justice (UFPJ) since its founding in early 2003, only a few months after UFPJ was founded. Van Gosse and Andor Skotnes attended the first UFPJ National Assembly in June 2003 in Chicago, where Van Gosse was elected to the UFPJ Steering Committee to represent HAW. On the Steering Committee, HAW functioned as the de facto representative of the academic sector. HAW mobilized its members and marched as a contingent in major UFPJ demonstrations. UFPJ publicized HAW's first major publication, the Torture pamphlet. Van Gosse and Rusti Eisenberg were very involved in setting up the Legislative Working Group of UFPJ in spring-summer of 2005, one of its most successful initiatives.\n\nHAW organized a small contingent for the Washington demonstration called by United for Peace and Justice on January 27, 2007. About forty people either marched in the contingent or gathered with HAW at a meeting place across the street from the mall. The large Historians Against the War banner got a lot of notice from bystanders and other march participants.\n\nHAW runs a blog at http://blog.historiansagainstwar.org/. The blog became a focus of controversy in libertarian and conservative circles when in the process of discussing a 2009 change to the mission statement two members David T. Beito and Thaddeus Russell used the blog to denounce the mission statement . Rather than posting their objection in the comments section as other members were doing, they posted their complaints as a new posts at the top of the blog. When HAW web editor Marc Becker moved their post to the comments section, they reposted it again at the top of the blog. Fearing an attempt to subvert the organization's attempt to discuss a new mission statement, HAW's steering committee decided to remove their privilege of creating new posts. Beito and Russell contended that this move was ideologically motivated. Charging that the steering committee intended to maintain HAW as a closed \"leftist social club,\" Beito and Russell both resigned from HAW .\n\nHAW has a regular presence at the annual meetings of the American Historical Association (AHA).\n\nAt the 2006 AHA annual meeting in Philadelphia, HAW voted to join the \"Urgent Appeal to Save Iraq's Academics\" that publicized the indiscriminate killing that has taken the lives of 250 Iraqi colleagues as well as the United Nations University report that 84 percent of Iraq's institutions of higher education have already been burnt, looted or destroyed. HAW also debated resolutions scheduled for the AHA Business Meeting opposing the \"so-called\" academic bill of rights. HAW played the lead role in this effort, initiating discussion, delegated drafting the text to Ellen Schrecker, and gathered almost one hundred co-sponsors. The \"Resolution opposing Academic and Student Bills of Rights and Similar Regulations of the Academic Community,\" was approved by HAW, the AHA Business Meeting and received unanimous approval from the American Historical Association Council. HAW also sponsored two breakfasts and an evening social.\n\nHAW also sponsored a well attended roundtable on \"Historical Perspectives on Bush's Foreign Policy.\" Alan Dawley chaired the session and discussion which produced vibrant and vital debate and discussion on the central question of how U.S. foreign policy can be changed after elites run the country into a war. The speakers were John Prados, \"How We Were Hoodwinked on Iraq,\" Rusti Eisenberg, \"Historical Lessons from the Vietnam Era,\" and Larry Wittner, \"The Role of Peace Movements in Ending Wars.\"\n\nJohn Prados talked about splits in ruling circles as a factor in undoing the policy of war. In his opening comment, he showed how the Bush inner circle was so fixated on going to war with Iraq that it did not request CIA intelligence for fear that it might upset the applecart by showing there were no weapons of mass destruction.\n\nTo Rusti Eisenberg, on the other hand, there was no point in looking to the \"National Security/Welfare State\" for a change of course. Having learned virtually nothing from the Vietnam experience, the Bush circle is almost as irrational as the Nixon-Kissinger team in pursuing a policy that is doomed to fail, though not before slaughtering countless innocents. The only hope for change is a mass movement that will pressure elected representatives to change course, just as Congress cut off funding for Vietnam. For those wanting to believe that the peace movement can effect policy change, Larry Wittner offered some hopeful evidence. In an insightful review of the role of peace movements in ending U.S. wars from 1812 to Vietnam, he argued that even warmongers like Reagan had to change course in response to the worldwide movement against nuclear weapons. Having been invited to comment, Bruno Cartosio (editor of the Italian U.S-studies journal \"Acoma\") affirmed the importance of social movement in mobilizing opposition in Italy even before the Iraq war began.\n\nIn numerous exchanges between audience and panelists, analysis of the way to end war was deepened, often in reference to the anti-war movement of the Vietnam era. One important issue that emerged in discussion was that of \"linkage\" among movements. Where some felt strength lay in a single-issue focus on war, others felt worldwide opposition to the anticipated Iraq war was as strong as it was because it grew out of the post-Seattle anti-globalization movement. This raised the question of whether the ultimate causes of war lay in the needs of capitalist expansion, the imperatives of the National Security State, the tribalism of US v. Them, or some other cause.\n\nThe AHA's annual business meeting, January 6, 2007, voted overwhelmingly in favor of the HAW-initiated resolution deploring the Iraq War's effect on open inquiry and democratic processes and calling on historians \"to do whatever they can to bring the Iraq war to a speedy conclusion.\" The AHA Council referred the resolution to the membership via an electronic ballot and set up a blog for members to post comments prior to the voting. The results, announced on March 12, showed that about 2,000 AHA members had voted, and that slightly over three-quarters had voted in favor of the resolution. This is the first time that the AHA has taken a position against any US-led war.\n\nAt the January 2008 AHA convention in Washington, DC, HAW sponsored a panel on military resistance which included Carl Mirra and Margaret Power.\n\nAt the January 2009 AHA convention HAW sponsored a panel discussion on \"The Bush-Cheney Legacy.\" Van Gosse and Margaret Power organized the panel and chaired the session. The panelists were Alice Kessler-Harris, David Montgomery, Vijay Prashad, Ellen Schrecker, and Barbara Weinstein. HAW also co-sponsored a small reception held by the Peace History Society.\n\nAt the January 2011 AHA meeting in Boston, HAW members spoke panels focused on \"The Public Uses of History and the Global War on Terror\" and \"The Global War on Terror: Historical Perspectives and Future Prospects.\" \n\nIn September 2007, Several SC members (Roxanne Dunbar-Ortiz, Margaret Power, Enrique Ochoa, and Walter Hixson) took part in a HAW-organized panel at the Latin American Studies Association (LASA) annual conference in Montreal. The topic was \"U.S. Imperialist Policies in Latin America and the Middle East.\" Greg Grandin, Rula Abisaab, and Malek Abisaab also took part in the panel.\n\nHAW also has had a frequent presence at the meetings of the Organization of American Historians (OAH) and the Left Forum in New York.\n\n"}
{"id": "3959769", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3959769", "title": "International arbitration", "text": "International arbitration\n\nInternational arbitration is arbitration between companies or individuals in different states, usually by including a provision for future disputes in a contract.\n\nThe predominant system of rules is the UNCITRAL Arbitration Rules, as well as the United Nations Convention on the Recognition and Enforcement of Foreign Arbitral Awards of 1958 (the \"New York Convention\"). The International Centre for the Settlement of Investment Disputes (ICSID) also handles arbitration, but it is particularly focused on investor-state dispute settlement and hears relatively few cases.\n\nThe New York Convention was drafted under the auspices of the United Nations and has been ratified by more than 150 countries, including most major countries involved in significant international trade and economic transactions. The New York Convention requires the states that have ratified it to recognize and enforce international arbitration agreements and foreign arbitral awards issued in other contracting states, subject to certain limited exceptions. These provisions of the New York Convention, together with the large number of contracting states, have created an international legal regime that significantly favors the enforcement of international arbitration agreements and awards. It was preceded by the 1927 Convention on the Execution of Foreign Arbitral Awards in Geneva.\n\nInternational arbitration allows the parties to avoid local court procedures. International arbitration has different rules than domestic arbitration, and has its own non-country-specific standards of ethical conduct. \n\nThe process may be more limited than typical litigation and forms a hybrid between the common law and civil law legal systems. For example, the International Bar Association (IBA)'s Rules on the Taking of Evidence in International Commercial Arbitration, revised in 2010, do not adopt common law broad disclosure procedures (discovery) or follow the civil law in eliminating entirely the ability of engaging in some disclosure-related practices. The IBA Rules blend common and civil systems so that parties may narrowly tailor disclosure to the agreement's particular subject matter. \n\nDavid Rivkin, who chaired the committee that drafted the rules, has noted that the wide adoption of these rules in international arbitration has led in practice to an unexpected use by common law practitioners to limit disclosure and by civil law practitioners to expand it. \n\nThe rules can be further impacted by arbitral rules that may be agreed between the parties.\n\nMost countries, especially in the developed world, are signatories of the New York Convention. Consequently, judgements can be enforced across the world. The New York Convention, more formally known as the United Nations Convention on the Recognition and Enforcement of Foreign Arbitral Awards, provides for court recognition and enforcement of foreign arbitration decisions, allowing arbitration proceedings to piggyback on the authority of domestic jurisdictions across the world. \n\nIn contrast, there is no equivalent treaty for the international recognition of court decisions with a large membership although the Hague Convention of 30 June 2005 on Choice of Court Agreements entered into force in 2015 for the European Union and Mexico. Similarly, no equivalent treaty exists so far for the international recognition of settlements achieved in mediation or conciliation:so far, a meeting of the UNCITRAL Working Group II in New York has taken place in February 2015 subsequent to a US proposal for that working group to develop a convention on the enforcement of conciliated settlement agreements for international commercial disputes. Within the EU, the enforceability of mediation agreements is ruled by Directive 2008/52/EC.\n\nUnder the New York Convention, if a party to arbitration files a lawsuit in breach of an arbitration agreement, the court is obligated to stay the proceedings. Chapter 2 of the Federal Arbitration Act sets forth the statutory basis for an American court to issue a stay in connection with contracts falling within the ambit of the New York Convention.\nBut it is important to adopt one organization related to arbitration.\n\nUnder the New York Convention, Article V provides for seven reasons that a court can use to refuse to enforce an arbitration judgment .\n\nPublic information on overall and specific arbitration cases is quite limited as there is no need to involve the courts at all unless there is a dispute, and in most cases the loser pays voluntarily. In China, a review of disputed cases in China found that from 2000 to 2011, in 17 cases the Supreme People's Court upheld the refusal to enforce the arbitration agreement due to a provision in Article V; China has an automatic appeal system to the highest court, so this includes all such refusals.\n\nA number of essential elements should be included in almost all international arbitration agreements, with model language available. These include the agreement to arbitrate, a definition of the scope of disputes subject to arbitration, the means for selecting the arbitrator(s), a choice of the arbitral seat, and the adoption of institutional or ad hoc arbitration rules. A number of other provisions can also be included in international arbitration clauses, including the language for the conduct of the arbitration, choice of applicable law, arbitrator qualifications, interim relief, costs, and procedural matters.\n\nIn order to bridge the gap when parties to an international agreement have difficulty in agreeing upon an arbitral institution, some international arbitration specialists recommend using an arbitration clause that authorizes two arbitral institutions in the same city. Those clauses generally empower the party \"commencing\" the arbitration to select the arbitral institution.\n\nA mnemonic device, “BLINC LLC”, reflects some of the most important clauses: broad, law, institutional, number, costs, location, language, and carve-out.\n\nSeveral major international institutions and rule making bodies set out rules and appoint arbitrators. The most significant are:\n\nOther Important Institutions for Arbitration in North America are JAMS International, the British Columbia International Commercial Arbitration Centre (BCICAC, Canada).\n\nSpecialist ADR bodies also exist, such as the World Intellectual Property Organisation (WIPO), which has an arbitration and mediation center and a panel of international neutrals specialising in intellectual property and technology related disputes. \n\nA number of arbitral institutions have adopted the UNCITRAL Rules for use in international cases. See for example, Australia's adoption of the UNCITRAL Rules in its 6 July 2010 amendment to the 'International Arbitration Act 1974' (Cth).\n\nThe most salient feature of the rules of the ICC is its use of the \"terms of reference.\" The \"terms of reference\" is a summary of the claims and issues in dispute and the particulars of the procedure and is prepared by the tribunal and signed by the parties near the beginning of the proceedings.\n\nIn a more recent development, the Swiss Chambers of Commerce and Industry of Basel, Berne, Geneva, Lausanne, Lugano, Neuchâtel and Zurich have adopted a new set of Swiss Rules of Commercial Mediation that are designed to integrate fully with the Swiss Rules of International Arbitration that were previously adopted by these chambers to harmonize international arbitration and mediation proceedings across Switzerland.\n\nThe International Arbitration Institute, headed by Emmanuel Gaillard, was created in 2001, under the auspices of the Comité français de l’arbitrage (CFA), to promote exchanges and transparency in the international commercial arbitration community.\n\nThe Association for International Arbitration is a non-profit organisation founded in Paris in 2001 by Johan Billiet which provides information, training and educational activities but does not appoint arbitrators.\n\nThe International Centre for the Settlement of Investment Disputes (ICSID) is an ad hoc tribunal established pursuant to UNCITRAL Rules to arbitrate International Investment Agreements and provide foreign investors with a means for redress against states for breaches of contract. The ICSID was designed so that it cannot be reviewed by domestic courts which in theory makes it more enforceable. However, state immunity to lawsuits and judgments poses a barrier to collection.\n\nThe legal protection of foreign direct investment is guaranteed by a network of more than 2750 Bilateral Investment Treaties (BITs), Multilateral Investment Treaties, most notably the Energy Charter Treaty and a number of free trade agreements containing chapter on investment protection through investor-state dispute settlement, such as NAFTA. The overall number of cases concluded reached 244. Of them, approximately 42% were decided in favour of the state and approximately 31% in favour of the investor. Approximately 27% of the cases were settled.\n\nArbitration has been used for centuries, including in antiquity, for the resolution of disputes between states and state-like entities. After a period of relative disuse, Jay's Treaty between the United States and Great Britain revived international arbitration as a means of resolving interstate disputes. The 1899 and 1907 Hague Conferences addressed arbitration as a mechanism for resolving state-to-state disputes, leading to the adoption of the Hague Conventions for the Pacific Settlement of International Disputes. The Conventions established the Permanent Court of Arbitration and a rudimentary institutional framework for international arbitration of interstate disputes. In recent years, international arbitration has been used to resolve a number of disputes between states or state-like entities, including Eritrea v. Yemen, the Abyei Arbitration, the OSPAR Arbitration, and the Iron Rhine Arbitration.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "761292", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761292", "title": "Jagdish Bhagwati", "text": "Jagdish Bhagwati\n\nJagdish Natwarlal Bhagwati (born July 26, 1934) is an Indian-born American economist. \nHe is a University Professor of economics and law at Columbia University. Bhagwati is notable for his research in international trade and for his advocacy of free trade.\n\nBhagwati was born in 1934, into a Gujarati family in the Bombay Presidency during the British Raj, and received a BA from Sydenham College, Mumbai. He then traveled to England to study at St. John's College, Cambridge, receiving a second BA at Cambridge (in Economics) in 1956. Between 1957 and 1959 he studied at Nuffield College, Oxford. He received the Ph.D. in Economics from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in 1961 for a thesis titled \"Essays in International Economics\", supervised by Charles P. Kindleberger.\n\nBhagwati is married to Padma Desai, also a Columbia economist and Russia-specialist; they have one daughter. He is the brother of P.N. Bhagwati, former Chief Justice of India and also of S.N. Bhagwati, an eminent neurosurgeon. Bhagwati and Desai's joint 1970 OECD study \"India: Planning for Industrialization\" was a notable contribution at the time.\n\nAfter completing his PhD, Bhagwati returned to India in 1961, first to teach briefly at the Indian Statistical Institute, Kolkata, and then as professor of international trade at the Delhi School of Economics at the University of Delhi, from 1962 to 1968. From 1968 until 1980, Bhagwati was an economics professor at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. Bhagwati currently serves on the Academic Advisory Board of Human Rights Watch (Asia) and on the board of scholars of the Centre for Civil Society. He is a Senior Fellow of the Council on Foreign Relations. Bhagwati has previously served as an external advisor to the Director General of the World Trade Organization in 2001, as a special policy advisor on globalization to the United Nations in 2000, and as an economics policy advisor to the Director-General of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, from 1991 to 1993.\n\nIn 2000, Bhagwati was signatory to an amicus briefing, coordinated by the American Enterprise Institute, with the Supreme Court of the United States to contend that the Environmental Protection Agency should, contrary to a prior ruling, be allowed to take into account the costs of regulations when setting environmental standards.\n\nIn January 2004, Bhagwati published \"In Defense of Globalization,\" a book in which he argues: \n\n... this process [of globalization] has a human face, but we need to make that face more agreeable.\nIn May, 2004, Bhagwati was one of the experts who took part in the Copenhagen Consensus project.\n\nIn 2006, Bhagwati was a member of the Panel of Eminent Persons who reviewed the work of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD). In early 2010, Bhagwati joined the advisory board of the Institute for Migrant Rights, Cianjur – Indonesia.\n\nAt present, he is professor of economics and law at Columbia University.\n\n\nOther awards include the Bernhard Harms Prize (Germany), the Kenan Enterprise Award (United States), the Freedom Prize (Switzerland), and the John R. Commons Award (United States). He has also received honorary degrees from the University of Sussex and Erasmus University, as well as others.\n\nPaul Samuelson, on the occasion of Bhagwati's 70th birthday \"festschrift\" conference in Gainesville, Florida on January 2005 said:\n\nI measure a scholar's prolific-ness not by the mere number of his publishings. Just as the area of a rectangle equals its width times its depth, the quality of a lifetime accomplishment must weight each article by its novelties and wisdoms. ... Jagdish Bhagwati is more like Haydn: a composer of more than a hundred symphonies and no one of them other than top notch. ... In the struggle to improve the lot of mankind, whether located in advanced economies or in societies climbing the ladder out of poverty, Jagdish Bhagwati has been a tireless partisan of that globalization which elevates global total-factor – productivities both of richest America and poorest regions of Asia and Africa.\nJagdish Bhagwati was the fictional winner of the Nobel Prize in Economics in The Simpsons episode Elementary School Musical (The Simpsons).\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "962356", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=962356", "title": "Jeju uprising", "text": "Jeju uprising\n\nFrom April 1948 to May 1949, the Korean province of Jeju Island was subjected to a communist insurgency and subsequent anticommunist suppression campaign, during which between 14,000 and 30,000 people were killed. The proximate cause of the rebellion was the scheduling of elections for May 10, 1948, by the United Nations Temporary Commission on Korea (UNTCOK) in the hope of creating a new government for all of Korea. The elections, however, were only planned for the south of the country, the area controlled by UNTCOK. Fearing the elections would further reinforce division, guerrilla fighters of the communist South Korean Labor Party (SKLP) reacted with protests by attacking local police and rightist paramilitary groups stationed on Jeju Island.\n\nThough atrocities were committed by both sides, historians have noted that the methods used by the South Korean government to suppress protesters and rebels were especially cruel. On one occasion, American soldiers discovered the bodies of 97 people including children, killed by government forces. On another, American soldiers reported government police forces carrying out an execution of 76 villagers, including women and children.\n\nUp to 10% of the island's population died during or as a result of the conflict, and another 40,000 fled to Japan. In the decades after the uprising, memory of the event was suppressed by the government through censorship and repression. In 2006, almost 60 years after the rebellion, the South Korean government apologized for its role in the killings. The government also promised reparations but as of 2018, nothing had been done to this end.\n\nAfter Imperial Japan surrendered to Allied forces on August 15, 1945, the 35-year Japanese occupation of Korea finally came to an end. Korea was subsequently divided at the 38th parallel north, with the Soviet Union assuming trusteeship north of the line and the United States south of the line. In September 1945, Lt. General John R. Hodge established a military government to administer the southern region, which included Jeju Island. In December 1945, U.S. representatives met with those from the Soviet Union and United Kingdom to work out joint trusteeship. Due to lack of consensus, however, the U.S. took the \"Korean question\" to the United Nations for further deliberation. On November 14, 1947, the United Nations General Assembly passed UN Resolution 112, calling for a general election on May 10, 1948, under UNTCOK supervision.\n\nFearing it would lose influence over the northern half of Korea if it complied, the Soviet Union rejected the UN resolution and denied the UNTCOK access to northern Korea. UNTCOK nevertheless went through with the elections, albeit in the southern half of the country only. The Soviet Union responded to these elections in the south with an election of its own in the north on August 25, 1948.\n\nResidents of Jeju island were some of the most active participants in the Korean independence movement against colonial Japanese occupation. Due to the island's relative isolation from the mainland peninsula, Jeju experienced relative peace after the Japanese surrender, contrasting with the period of heavy unrest in the southern region of mainland Korea. As with the mainland, the period immediately following the Japanese surrender was characterized by the formation of People's Committees, local, autonomous counsels tasked with coordinating the transition towards Korean independence. When the American military government arrived on Jeju in late 1945, the Jeju People's Council was the only existing government on the island. As a testament to this relative stability, the US military governor under the United States Army Military Government in Korea (USAMGIK) John R. Hodge stated in October 1947 that Jeju was \"a truly communal area that is peacefully controlled by the People's Committee without much Comintern influence.\"\n\nThe Jeju People's Council had come under the directive of the South Korean Labor Party (SKLP) by late 1946. The SKLP encouraged the People's Council to establish military and political committees, as well as mass organizations. The 1946 USAMGIK dissolution of the provisional People's Republic of Korea and their associated People's Committees on the mainland sparked the Autumn Uprising of 1946, which did not spread to Jeju (as its PC still operated virtually unperturbed by the American military government) but did contribute to rising tensions on the island.\n\nResidents of Jeju began protesting against the elections a year before they took place. Particularly concerned about permanently dividing the peninsula, the SKLP planned gatherings on March 1, 1947 to denounce the elections and simultaneously celebrate the anniversary of the March 1st Movement. An attempt by the security forces to disperse the crowds only brought more citizens of Jeju out in support of the demonstrations. In a desperate attempt to calm the boisterous crowd, Korean police fired indiscriminate warning shots above their heads, some of which went into the crowd. Although these shots successfully pacified the demonstrators, six civilians were killed, including a six-year-old child.\n\nOn March 8, 1947, a crowd of about a thousand demonstrators gathered at the Chong-myon jail, demanding the release of SKLP members the military government had arrested during the Sam-Il demonstrations. When the demonstrators started throwing rocks and subsequently rushed the jail, the police inside shot at them in a panic, killing five. In response, SKLP members and others called on the military government to take action against the police officers who fired on the crowd. Instead, 400 more police officers were flown in from the mainland, along with members of an extreme right-wing paramilitary group known as the Northwest Youth League. Although both the police and paramilitary groups employed violent and harsh tactics in their suppression of the locals, the Northwest Youth League was especially ruthless, described as borderline terroristic.\n\nAs the May 10, 1948 elections approached, SKLP leaders hardened in their opposition to the involvement of UNTCOK in Korean affairs, as they believed the elections would concretize the 38th parallel partition as a border, rendering a unified, independent Korea much less likely. In January 1948, Pak Hon-yong, the leader of the SKLP, called on SKLP members south of the 38th parallel to oppose the elections by whatever means necessary, and called for a general strike to begin on February 7. At this point, there were at least 60,000 members of the SKLP on Jeju, and at least 80,000 active supporters. These members and supporters not only went on strike but in some cases attacked government installations and engaged with police forces in open conflict. These engagements between SKLP guerrillas against rightist groups and police continued through March 1948.\n\nAlthough skirmishes had been taking place on Jeju Island since early 1947, April 3, 1948 is considered as the day the Jeju uprising officially began. Some sources claim it came about when military police \"fired on a demonstration commemorating the Korean struggle against Japanese rule,\" igniting mass insurrection. Other sources, however, make no mention of this demonstration incident, and claim that SKLP plans to attack on April 3, 1948 had been in the works for some time. Whatever the case, around 02:00 around 500 SKLP guerrillas alongside up to 3,000 sympathizers attacked Northwest Youth League positions as well as 11 of the 24 police stations on the island, killing 30 police officers, specifically targeting those who were known to have previously collaborated with the Japanese.\n\nLieutenant General Kim Ik-ryeol, commander of police forces on the island, attempted to end the insurrection peacefully by negotiating with the rebels. He met several times with rebel leader Kim Dal-sam of the SKLP but neither side could agree on conditions. The government wanted a complete surrender and the rebels demanded disarmament of the local police, dismissal of all governing officials on the island, prohibition of paramilitary groups, and the re-unification and liberation of the Korean peninsula.\n\nIn the wake of these failed peace negotiations, the fighting continued. The U.S. military government responded to guerrilla activity by transferring another regiment to Jeju from Busan and deploying police companies, each 1,700 strong, from the southern provinces of the mainland. The guerrillas retreated to their bases in the forests and caves around Hallasan, an extinct volcano and the highest mountain in South Korea. On April 29, the Korean, non-military, governor of Jeju province abandoned his post, defected, and joined the guerrillas. This caused many police officers, disillusioned by the atrocities they were ordered to commit against their own, to do the same. In response, U.S. military provincial governor William F. Dean ordered a purge of SKLP sympathizers from the ranks of the Korean Constabulary, and three sergeants were summarily executed.\n\nFighting continued through the May 10 elections. During election week, the guerrillas \"cut telephone lines, destroyed bridges, and blocked roads with piles of stones to disrupt communications.\" The SKLP Women's League campaigned for residents to hide in the mountainous region controlled by guerillas the night before the election so they could not be brought out to vote at gunpoint, and thousands did. Many election officials even declined to show up. These campaigns, along with sporadic arson, violent demonstrations and attacks on three government installations on election day rendered the election useless. The turnout in Jeju was the lowest in all of South Korea, so low that the two seats reserved for Jeju province in the new national assembly were left vacant.\n\nFearing an upsurge in guerrilla activities after they succeeded in getting what they wanted out of the election, General Dean requested a US Navy blockade of the island on May 11, so that sympathizers from the mainland could not reach Jeju. The Navy sent the USS John R. Craig (DD-885) to enforce the blockade.\n\nAlthough guerrilla activities waned during the summer months of 1948, they picked up again in August after the Soviet Union held elections north of the 38th parallel to form the Democratic People's Republic of Korea (DPRK). In conjunction with these elections, the Workers' Party of North Korea organized \"underground elections\" for those wanting to participate south of the 38th parallel, including on Jeju Island. Although the turnout of these elections is disputed, they succeeded at emboldening SKLP military forces. In the months following the elections, conditions worsened to the point that Republic of Korea (ROK) officials decided to send the Fourteenth Regiment of the Korean Constabulatory, stationed near the southern port city of Yeosu, to Jeju Island to assist counter-guerrilla efforts. Not wanting to \"murder the people of Jeju,\" however, thousands of these troops mutinied on October 20, 1948, just as they were preparing to depart. They killed many of the high-ranking officers and former Japanese collaborators and seized Yeosu and surrounding areas before retreating into the areas around Jirisan mountain and setting up guerrilla bases, much as the Jeju guerrillas did while hiding out in Hallasan. Embarrassed by this incident, Syngman Rhee, the newly elected president of the ROK, intensified the government's efforts to stamp out the rebellion. On November 17, 1948, Syngman Rhee proclaimed martial law in order to quell the rebellion. During this period, ROK police forces engaged in numerous war crimes. One report describes the events of December 14, 1948 at a small Jeju village, in which ROK forces attacked the village and kidnapped many young men and girls. The girls were gang-raped over a two-week period and were then executed along with the young men.\n\nBy the end of 1948, the ROK's harsh tactics and effective suppression campaigns had reduced the number of guerrilla forces to just 300.\n\nOn January 1, 1949, the guerrillas launched one last offensive against ROK police. They attacked at Odong-ni and Jeju City, but were beaten back by ROK police and driven to the island's interior mountains. ROK police pursued the guerrillas and continued to commit atrocities, including rounding up whole villages and killing them all. The ROK forces, now determined to destroy the remaining SKLP guerrillas, launched an eradication campaign in March 1949. During the campaign, 2,345 guerrillas and 1,668 civilians were killed. With the campaign now effectively over, the ROK held elections on Jeju Island to fill the province's empty seats in the National Assembly; Jeju Island was now effectively and symbolically under ROK jurisdiction.\n\nAt the beginning of the uprising, the island was controlled by the United States Army Military Government in Korea. Only a small number of Americans were present. Jimmie Leach, then a captain in the U.S. Army, was an adviser to the South Korean Constabulary and claimed that there were six Americans on the island, including himself, and that they could call on two small L-4 scout planes and two old minesweepers converted to coastal cutters, manned by Korean crews. On March 8, 1949, the US Armed Forces sent an investigation team headed by Colonel James A. Casteel to Jeju to investigate the causes of the rebellion. They summarized that February 1948 Jeju general strike prior to the rebellion was caused by instigation by the South Korean Labor Party and hostility towards the police as a result of shootings. They also described the strike as \"communist inspired\" but participated by both the left and right in response to the March 1 shootings.\n\nBy spring of 1949 four South Korean Army battalions arrived and joined the local constabulary, police forces, and right-wing Northwest Youth Association partisans to brutally suppress protests. The combined forces quickly destroyed or disabled most of the remaining rebel forces. On August 17, 1949, the leadership of the movement fell apart following the killing of major rebel leader Yi Tuk-ku. The U.S. military later called the complete destruction of Jungsangan village a \"successful operation\".\n\nThe National Committee for the Investigation of the Truth about the Jeju April 3 Incident concluded that the U.S. Army Military Government in Korea and the Korean Military Advisory Group shared responsibility for the incident as it occurred under the rule of the military government and an American colonel was in charge of the security forces of Jeju.\n\nAfter the outbreak of the Korean War, the U.S. assumed command of the South Korean armed forces. Brigadier General William Lynn Roberts commanded Americans on Jeju.\n\nThe U.S. military documented massacres but did not intervene. On May 13, 1949 the American ambassador to South Korea wired Washington that the Jeju rebels and their sympathizers had been, \"killed, captured, or converted.\" \"Stars and Stripes\" reported on the South Korean Army's brutal suppression of the rebellion, local support for the rebels, as well as rebel retaliation against local rightist opponents.\n\nImmediately after the North Korean invasion of South Korea, the South Korean military ordered \"preemptive apprehension\" of suspected leftists nationwide. Thousands were detained on Jeju, then sorted into four groups, labeled A, B, C and D, based on the perceived security risks each posed. On August 30, 1950, a written order by a senior intelligence officer in the South Korean Navy instructed Jeju's police to \"execute all those in groups C and D by firing squad no later than September 6.\"\n\nIn one of its first official acts, the South Korean National Assembly passed the National Traitors Act in 1948, which among other measures, outlawed the Workers Party of South Korea. For almost fifty years after the uprising, it was a crime punishable by beatings, torture and a lengthy prison sentence if any South Korean even mentioned the events of the Jeju uprising. The event had been largely ignored by the government. In 1992, President Roh Tae Woo's government sealed up a cave on Mount Halla where the remains of massacre victims had been discovered. After civil rule was reinstated in the 1990s, the government admitted that the events on Jeju Island took place. A decade later in 2006, the government of South Korea issued an official apology.\n\nIn October 2003, President Roh Moo-hyun apologized to the populace of Jeju for the brutal suppression of the uprising, stating, \"Due to wrongful decisions of the government, many innocent people of Jeju suffered many casualties and destruction of their homes.\" Roh was the first South Korean president to apologize for the 1948 massacre. In March 2009, the Truth and Reconciliation Commission revealed that, \"At least 20,000 people jailed for taking part in the popular uprisings in Jeju, Yeosu and Suncheon, or accused of being communists, were massacred in some 20 prisons across the country,\" when the Korean War broke out.\n\nThe commission reported 14,373 victims, 86% at the hands of the security forces and 14% at the hands of armed rebels, and estimated that the total death toll was as high as 30,000. Some 70 percent of the island's 230 villages were burned to the ground and over 39,000 houses were destroyed. Of the 400 villages before the uprising only 170 remained afterwards. In 2008, bodies of massacre victims were discovered in a mass grave near Jeju International Airport.\n\nFamilies of victims of the uprising and associated massacres, as well as various civic organizations, continuously attempted to openly discuss the uprising but the national government suppressed all materials and discussions, and even made the topic of the uprising illegal. The first published recollection in South Korea of the massacre was the 1978 novel \"Sun-i Samch'on\" (, \"Uncle Suni\") which is set during the event. However, it was swiftly banned by the ROK government and its author, Hyun Ki-young, was arrested and tortured for three days by the National Intelligence Service.\n\nHowever, on November 23, 1998, after the democratization of South Korea, former president Kim dae-jung stated that \"the Jeju uprising was a communist rebellion, but there are a lot of people who died under false accusations as innocents, so now we have to reveal the truth and clear their false charges.\" On December 26, 1999, the National Assembly passed the bill, 'A special law for the Jeju uprising truth ascertainment and the regaining impaired reputation of the victims'. On January 12, 2000, the National Assembly legislated a law so the Korean government could begin conducting an investigation of the uprising. Due to this decision, it could be possible to expand the human rights of the residents of Jeju. On October 15, 2003, a truth ascertainment committee of the Jeju uprising was assembled according to the special law, and ascertained a fact-finding report of the Jeju uprising. In line with the finding of the committee, on October 31, 2003, former president Roh moo-hyeon admitted that the brutal suppression of the uprising was a massive abuse of governmental power and made a public apology to the people of Jeju on behalf of the Republic of Korea.\n\nSome right wing groups, including the Wallganjosun (), and Jaehyanggooninhoe () argued that the Jeju uprising was led and instigated by the Workers' Party of South Korea.\n\nKim Gwang-dong, the director of researching policy in Korea argued that though the fundamental characteristic of the uprising is 'subversion of the system', there are a lot of skewed and biased studies that criticize the Korean government's faults when suppressing the rebellion. He said \"it was an armed struggle and revolt of the forces who advocate communism against forces who support liberal democracy.\" \n\nA Presbyterian minister, Lee Jong-yoon spoke at a church in Seoul that \"the Jeju rising was incurred by the leftist forces and they provoked the rebellion to disturb the May 10 general election\". This statement was broadcast through the CTS channel.\n\nThere are controversies about the legality of martial law which took effect on November 17, 1948. One side that thinks it is illegal argued that effectuating martial law before the enactment of martial law is illegal according to the first constitution of South Korea. The other side argued that martial law from the Japanese colonial era still existed at the time so there are any violence of the effectuating martial law. This part continued before August 15, 1948 and after the formation of the South Korean government.\n\nAlthough the report of the accident started in June 2000, it was found to be 14,028 victims, but it is expected that the number will be higher since there are either unidentified or unidentifiable victims. On the other hand, about 180 soldiers died in combat, and 140 policemen died in the April 3 incident. October 31, 2003, a fact-finding commission in accordance with the opinion of the president is (Roh Moo-hyun) of the Nam-ro party, Jeju-si, Jeju-do, a clique mujangdae and the armed conflict and by state power in the course of suppression of a punitive force., and admitted to having made huge sacrifices. He issued a formal apology to the bereaved family and Jeju residents. On March 28, 2008, the Korea Institute of Science and Technology opened a 4-pyeong chemical aid project in Bonggae-dong, Jeju as part of a joint compensation program for the Jeju April 3 incident.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23689846", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23689846", "title": "Jos van Rey", "text": "Jos van Rey\n\nJozef Franciscus Bernard \"Jos\" van Rey (; born 15 April 1945) is a Dutch businessman and politician from Roermond. He has been a member of the municipal council of Roermond for the Liberal People's Party Roermond since 2014 and a member of the States of Limburg for the People's Party Limburg since 2015.\n\nFor the People's Party for Freedom and Democracy, Van Rey was a member of the municipal council of Roermond (1974–1986; 1991–2002), an alderman of Roermond (1979–1982; 1998–2012), a member of the States of Limburg (1982; 1995–2011), a member of the House of Representatives (1982–1989; 1991–1998), and member of the Senate (2011–2012). In 2013, he was expelled from the People's Party for Freedom and Democracy after co-founding the Liberal People's Party Roermond.\n\nBetween 2012 and 2016, he was investigated for political corruption. In 2016 and 2017, he was convicted for bribery, disclosure of confidential information, electoral fraud, and money laundering. He received a suspended prison sentence of one year and was disqualified to hold public office for two years.\n\nJozef Franciscus Bernard van Rey was born on 15 April 1945 in Roermond in the Netherlands.\n\nVan Rey has worked in insurance since 1965. He founded an insurance company named after himself, Jos van Rey, and was director between 1975 and October 1982. He is the owner of a real estate company named after himself, Jos van Rey Vastgoed BV.\n\nVan Rey became a member of the People's Party for Freedom and Democracy in 1965.\n\nBetween 1974 and 2012, he had several and sometimes concurrent positions in the municipality of Roermond, the province of Limburg, and the Netherlands for the People's Party for Freedom and Democracy. He was a member of the municipal council of Roermond (1974–1986; 1991–2002), an alderman of Roermond (1979–1982; 1998–2012), a member of the States of Limburg (1982; 1995–2011), a member of the House of Representatives (1982–1989; 1991–1998), and member of the Senate (2011–2012).\n\nFollowing the start of the investigation into political corruption in 2012, Van Rey resigned as alderman and senator.\n\nIn 2013, he co-founded the Liberal People's Party Roermond (LVR), after which he was expelled from the People's Party for Freedom and Democracy (VVD) due to a conflict of interest. In 2014, Van Rey was installed as a member of the Municipal Council in Roermond for the LVR.\n\nIn 2015, he was installed as a member of the States of Limburg for the People's Party Limburg.\n\nBetween 2012 and 2016, Van Rey was investigated for political corruption and prosecuted for bribery, disclosure of confidential information, and electoral fraud. The criminal trial started in the court of Rotterdam on 4 April 2016. Van Rey was convicted for two counts of bribery, one count of disclosure of confidential information, and one count of electoral fraud and he received a community sentence of 240 hours on 12 July 2016. On 20 December 2017, the Court of Appeal of The Hague gave Van Rey a twelve months' suspended prison sentence and disqualified him from holding public office for the duration of two years, for bribery, disclosure of confidential information, electoral fraud and money laundering.\n"}
{"id": "1729727", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1729727", "title": "Junta of National Reconstruction", "text": "Junta of National Reconstruction\n\nThe Junta of National Reconstruction (\"Junta de Gobierno de Reconstrucción Nacional\") officially ruled Nicaragua from July 1979 to January 1985. Effective power was in the hands of the Sandinista National Liberation Front's National Directorate, led by Daniel Ortega.\n\nThe Sandinista rebels announced the Junta as its provisional government on June 16, 1979, as the civil war against the Anastasio Somoza Debayle regime entered its final phase. It was composed of five members: a member of the FSLN directorate, Daniel Ortega, two left-wing activists, Sergio Ramírez and Moisés Hassan Morales, and two right-wing representatives, Alfonso Robelo and Violeta Barrios de Chamorro.\n\nIn the first half of July, United States government envoy William Bowdler pressured the Sandinistas to broaden the junta by adding more members, such as Adolfo Calero, Ismael Reyes, and Mariano Fiallos.\n\nAfter the fall of Somoza, it quickly became apparent to Robelo and Chamorro that they did not have any real power and Chamorro resigned on April 19, 1980, followed by Robelo three days later. On May 18, they were replaced by Arturo Cruz and Rafael Córdova Rivas. Cruz would resign in March 1981, though he agreed for a time to be ambassador to the United States. \n\nOn March 4, Cruz's appointment to Washington was announced, together with Hassan's departure for the Council of State and Ortega's promotion to Coordinator of the now three-member junta. While the junta may have offered little authority to its non-Sandinista members, the public role did help to solidify Ortega's primacy within the FSLN directorate and enhance Ramírez's prominence.\n\nOn November 4, 1984, a presidential election was held, which was won by leading junta member and revolutionary Daniel Ortega and his running mate, Sergio Ramírez as vice president. However, some opposition parties boycotted it, claiming unfair conditions. While the Reagan administration and many mainstream United States media outlets alleged the election would be neither free nor fair, numerous electoral watchers affiliated with Western European governments, as well as United States non-governmental organizations, declared the results legitimate. Ortega took office on January 10, 1985, and the junta was dissolved.\n\n"}
{"id": "35260454", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35260454", "title": "Karnataka Wakf Board Land Scam", "text": "Karnataka Wakf Board Land Scam\n\nThe Karnataka Wakf Board Land Scam concerns the alleged misappropriation of in Indian property funds, made public by a report submitted by the Karnataka State Minorities Commission in 2012.\n\nIn March 2012, Anwar Manippady, the Chairman of the Karnataka State Minorities Commission submitted a report to the chief minister of Karnataka state, D.V. Sadananda Gowda, which alleged that 27,000 acres of land controlled by the Karnataka Wakf Board had either been misappropriated or allocated illegally. The value of the land has been estimated at Rs. 2 trillion (short scale) (US$39 billion).\n\nThe Karnataka Wakf Board is a Muslim charitable trust that manages and oversees property that has typically been donated for the use of the poor. The report commissioned by Manippady alleges that the Karnataka Wakf Board had allowed almost 50% of its land to be misappropriated by politicians and board members, in collusion with the real estate mafia for a fraction of its market value.\n\nManippady has recommended that the government established a committee to investigate corrupt activities on the Wakf Board and appoint a task force to recover properties that have been illegally sold by the Wakf Board. The Income Tax Department has already initiated a probe into this.\n\n"}
{"id": "6714024", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6714024", "title": "List of Canadian ministries", "text": "List of Canadian ministries\n\nThis is a list of Canadian ministries, the collective body of ministers of the Crown that advises the Canadian monarch—presently Queen Elizabeth II—on how to exercise their Crown prerogatives. Since Canadian Confederation, July 1, 1867, there have been 29 ministries.\n\nIn Canada, a ministry is formed when a new prime minister is appointed and dissolved when that individual leaves office. The one exception occurred in 1917, when incumbent Prime Minister Sir Robert Borden formed a new national unity government (the 10th Canadian Ministry) as a wartime coalition composed primarily of members of his own Conservative Party with some individual Liberal Party members of parliament.\n\nIn contrast to various other Commonwealth realms (such as Australia and the United Kingdom) where a \"new\" ministry is considered to have been formed after every general election regardless of the winner, elections in Canada do not cause dissolution of the ministry unless they result in the government's defeat. As such, the current 29th Ministry, chaired by Prime Minister Justin Trudeau, began governing shortly before the opening of the 42nd Parliament in 2015.\n\nWith a duration of 15 years, 87 days, the 8th Ministry, under the leadersip of Sir Wilfrid Laurier, was the lengthiest; the 68-day-long 7th Ministry, under the leadership of Sir Charles Tupper, was the briefest. William Lyon Mackenzie King led three ministries—the 12th, 14th, and 16th—the most for any Canadian prime minister.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22088280", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22088280", "title": "Local government in the Philippines", "text": "Local government in the Philippines\n\nOfficially local government in the Philippines, often called local government units or LGUs, are divided into three levels – provinces and independent cities; component cities and municipalities; and barangays. In one area, above provinces and independent cities, is an autonomous region, the Autonomous Region of Muslim Mindanao. Below barangays in some cities and municipalities are sitios and puroks. All of these, with the exception of sitios and puroks, elect their own executives and legislatures. Sitios and puroks are often led by elected barangay councilors.\n\nProvinces and independent cities are organized into national government regions but those are administrative regions and not separately governed areas with their own elected governments.\n\nAccording to the Constitution of the Philippines, the local governments \"shall enjoy local autonomy\", and in which the Philippine president exercises \"general supervision\". Congress enacted the Local Government Code of the Philippines in 1991 to \"provide for a more responsive and accountable local government structure instituted through a system of decentralization with effective mechanisms of recall, initiative, and referendum, allocate among the different local government units their powers, responsibilities, and resources, and provide for the qualifications, election, appointment and removal, term, salaries, powers and functions and duties of local officials, and all other matters relating to the organization and operation of local units.\"\n\nAutonomous regions have more powers than other local governments. The constitution limits the creation of autonomous regions to Muslim Mindanao and the Cordilleras but only one autonomous region exists: the Autonomous Region in Muslim Mindanao (ARMM). In 2001, a plebiscite in the ARMM confirmed the previous composition of the autonomous region and added Basilan (except for the city of Isabela) and Marawi City in Lanao del Sur. Isabela City remains a part of the province of Basilan despite rejecting inclusion in the ARMM. A Cordillera Autonomous Region has never been formed because no plebiscite has received the required support.\n\nAn autonomous region is governed by the regional governor and a legislature such as the ARMM Regional Legislative Assembly.\n\nOutside the lone autonomous region, the provinces are the highest-level local government. The provinces are organized into component cities and municipalities. A province is governed by the governor and a legislature known as the Sangguniang Panlalawigan.\n\nMunicipal government in the Philippines is divided into three – independent cities, component cities, and municipalities (sometimes referred to as towns). Several cities across the country are \"independent cities\" which means that they are not governed by a province, even though like Iloilo City the provincial capitol might be in the city. Independent city residents do not vote for nor hold provincial offices. Far more cities are \"component cities\" and are a part of a province. Municipalities are always a part of a province except for Pateros which was separated from Rizal to form Metro Manila.\n\nCities and municipalities are governed by mayors and legislatures, which are called the Sangguniang Panlungsod in cities and the Sangguniang Bayan in municipalities.\n\nEvery city and municipality in the Philippines is divided into barangays, the smallest of the Local Government Units. Barangays can be further divided into sitios and puroks but those divisions do not have leaders elected in formal elections supervised by the national government.\n\nA barangay's executive is the Punong Barangay or barangay captain and its legislature is the Sangguniang Barangay, composed of barangay captain, the Barangay Kagawads (barangay councilors) and the SK chairman. The SK chairman also leads a separate assembly for youth, the Sangguniang Kabataan or SK.\n\nLocal governments have two branches: executive and legislative. All courts in the Philippines are under the Supreme Court of the Philippines and therefore there are no local-government controlled judicial branches. Nor do local governments have any prosecutors or public defenders, as those are under the jurisdiction of the national government.\n\nThe executive branch is composed of the regional governor for the Autonomous Region in Muslim Mindanao, governor for the provinces, mayor for the cities and municipalities, and the barangay captain for the barangays.\n\nThe legislatures review the ordinances and resolutions enacted by the legislatures below. Aside from regular and \"ex-officio\" members, the legislatures above the barangay level also have three sectoral representatives, one each from women, agricultural or industrial workers, and other sectors.\n\nAll elected officials have 3-year terms, and can only serve a maximum of three consecutive terms before being ineligible for reelection.\n\n\nThere are 21 offices in a government, whether it is municipal, city or provincial. There are some mandatory and optional offices to the government.\n\nLegend:\n\n√ - \"Mandatory\"\n\n? - \"Optional\"\n\nX - \"Not Applicable\"\n\nSource: \"Local Government Code of 1991\"\n\nAmong the social services and facilities that local government should provide, as stipulated in Section 17 of the Local Government Code, are the following:\n\nAs a matter of principle, higher legislative entities have the power to create, divide, merge, abolish, or substantially alter boundaries of any lower-level local government through a law or ordinance, all subject to approval by a majority of the votes cast in a plebiscite to be conducted by the Commission on Elections (COMELEC) in the local government unit or units directly affected. The Local Government Code has also set requisites for creating local government units. A summary can be found in the table below:\n\n<nowiki>*</nowiki>either area or population; meeting only one of these requirements is sufficient<br>\n^The ARMM Regional Assembly was conferred by Congress (through Article VI, Section 19 of Republic Act 9054) the power to create or modify lower-level LGUs under its jurisdiction, including provinces and cities. However, the Supreme Court's decision on the unconstitutionality of the now-defunct province of Shariff Kabunsuan has effectively confined the regional assembly's powers to creating or modifying only municipalities and barangays.\n\n"}
{"id": "18130200", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18130200", "title": "MILPAS", "text": "MILPAS\n\nThere were two armies with the acronym MILPAS in Nicaragua. The first, \"Milicias Populares Anti-Somocistas\", fought alongside the Sandinista National Liberation Front against the regime of Anastasio Somoza Debayle. The second, \"Milicias Populares Anti-Sandinistas\", was one of the earliest rebel groups that would form the contra movement.\n\nBeginning in September 1978, the Frente Obrero and MAP-ML organized the Milicias Populares Anti-Somocistas. In rural areas, they fought in the north with Germán Pomares, \"El Danto.\" They also played important roles in the liberation of Leon, Chinandega and other cities and towns, and in Managua they fought on the barricades put up in the working class barrios, taking part in the final destruction of the National Guard in its last stronghold. Among the hundreds of MILPAS fighters killed was Hernaldo Herrera Tellez, “Nano,” the general secretary of FO and a member of the national leadership of MAP-ML. MAP-ML and FO then dissolved the MILPAS they led on July 25,1979--several days after victory. Thereafter, MAP-ML and FO called upon the former Milicias Populares Anti-Somocistas fighters and others to support and join the Sandinista Popular Army and Militias as the contra war flared up against the new government, with many heeding their call. \n\nThe earliest contras inside Nicaragua were the MILPAS (\"Milicias Populares Anti-Sandinistas\"), peasant militias led by disillusioned Sandinistas. Founded by Pedro Joaquín González, whose nom de guerre was \"Dimas\", the Contra Milpistas were also known as \"chilotes\" (green corn). Even after his death, other MILPAS bands sprouted during 1980-1981. The Milpistas were composed largely of the campesino highlanders and rural workers who would later form the rank and file of the rebellion.\n\nThis MILPAS assimilated into the Nicaraguan Democratic Force (FDN). By 1985, most of the FDN's regional commands were headed by MILPAS veterans. By late 1987, the ranks of ex-MILPAS regional commanders included:\n\n"}
{"id": "43904163", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43904163", "title": "Martin Kaltschmitt", "text": "Martin Kaltschmitt\n\nMartin Kaltschmitt (born April 18, 1961) is a German engineer and professor at Technical University of Hamburg. He is head of the Institute for Environmental technology and Energy industry (Institut für Umwelttechnik und Energiewirtschaft) at Technical University of Hamburg.\n\nAfter having studied drilling engineering at Clausthal University of Technology from 1981 to 1986, Kaltschmitt obtained his PhDs at Stuttgart University in 1990, researching the possibilities and limits of wind power and solar energy generation in Baden-Württemberg. In 1997 he successfully wrote a habilitation work about renewable energy use in Germany. After that he was assigned with King's College London, and University of California, Berkeley. From 2001 to 2008 he was director of Institut für Energetik und Umwelt, Leipzig. In 2006 he became head of the Institut für Umwelttechnik und Energiewirtschaft at Technical University of Hamburg.\n\nFrom 2008 to 2010 he was scientific director of the German Biomass Research Center, Leipzig. He is a member of the Academy of Sciences and Humanities in Hamburg. In 2008 he was awarded the Medal of Honor of German Engineers Association Verein Deutscher Ingenieure.\n\nTogether with Hermann Hofbauer, Kaltschmitt is editor-in-chief of the scientific journal \"Biomass Conversion and Biorefinery\", edited by Springer.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28668021", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28668021", "title": "Ministry of Culture (Estonia)", "text": "Ministry of Culture (Estonia)\n\nThe Ministry of Culture of Estonia () is a Cabinet-level governmental agency in Estonia in charge of conducting and organising the country's cultural affairs and policies.\n\nThe ministry is headed by the minister who interacts with undersecretaries on Fine Arts, Cultural Heritage, International Relations and Cultural Diversity, and Sports. The ministry is responsible for creating favorable legislative and financial conditions for promotion and development of Estonian culture, its heritage, and sports.\n\nThe areas the Ministry of Culture is responsible for are:\n\nIndrek Saar is the current minister since 9 April 2015. The Secretary General of the Ministry is currently Tarvi Sits.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21587102", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21587102", "title": "Ministry of Interior, Public Safety and Decentralization (Niger)", "text": "Ministry of Interior, Public Safety and Decentralization (Niger)\n\nThe Ministry of Interior, Public Safety and Decentralization of the Government of Niger is the government authority responsible for policing, internal security and the ongoing process of decentralization of authority to the Regions, Departments, and Communes of Niger. The National Police and Paramilitary FNIS report to the Interior minister. Unlike the Interior ministry in some nations, courts, Justice, and prosecution are handled by the Ministry of Justice of Niger. The Civil Defense Directorate, which coordinates disaster, fire, and civil defense responses nationwide reports to the Ministry of the Interior. The Ministry of the Interior is headed by the \"Minister of State for the Interior, Public Safety and Decentralization\", a political appointment who sits in the Council of Ministers of Niger, reporting directly to the President of Niger.\n\nInterior and border control, including some policing duties, are carried out through the General Directorate of Territorial Administration (\"Direction Générale de l’Administration Territoriale\"), which consists of the eight Regional Governorates (now administrative posts, previously the appointed governors of the eight regions) (see Regions of Niger), the Directorate of General Affairs and Transborder Administrative Cooperation (\" Direction des Affaires Générales et de la Coopération Administrative Transfront\"), and the Directorate of Decentralisation (\"Direction de la décentralisation et du contentieux territorial\").\n\n\"Public Safety\" was appended to the title in 2004 when the National Police and FNIS were transfer to the Interior Ministry from the Defense Ministry of Niger.\n\n\"Decentralization\" was appended to the title by the 1999 constitution. The Minister of Interior in previous governments was the head of local government institutions. Following the move to decentralize government powers in the 1990s, most of the duties of the local appointed Prefect—who was chosen and answered to the Ministry—was taken over by the Communes of Niger, as well as the Departments and Regions. The Ministry of Interior still appoints prefects, but they play a much more limited role, as local representatives of national government. In some largely uninhabited areas, especially those in the Sahara Desert, the Interior Ministry still appoints heads of \"Postes Administratif\" (Administrative Posts). Previously drawn from the Military of Niger they now are officers of the FNIS.\n\nBelow is a partial list of Interior Ministry chiefs (Minister of the Interior of Niger):\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8043290", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8043290", "title": "Natalie de Bogory", "text": "Natalie de Bogory\n\nNatalie de Bogory (also known as Natalie Debogory or Natalie DeBogory-Mokriyevich) (1887–1939) is primarily known for her work in translating from the Russian language into the English language, and subsequently distributing and participating in having published the first or second American edition in the United States of the document known as the Protocols of the Elders of Zion. There were two different editions printed in the United States in 1920. The earlier, entitled \"The Protocols and World Revolution\", associated with Boris Brasol and published by Small, Maynard and Company. The later, entitled \"Praemonitus Praemunitus\" associated with Harris A. Houghton and published by the Beckwith Company.\n\nShe was the granddaughter of two servicemen of the tsar of Russia. One of her grandfathers resigned being a colonel-lieutenant, another one was a major. Her father Vladimir Karpovich Debogory-Mokriyevich (May 24, 1848 - Nov. 2, 1926) had been imprisoned under the tsarist government for revolutionary activities. He was a well-known Russian Revolutionary-Narodnik (Populist), who escaped from prison in Siberia and later married her mother Julie Gortynsky (1860 -1933?) in Switzerland. \n\nHer mother Julie Gortynsky was from a noble family and educated at the Kiev Institute for noble girls in Kiev (Gortynsky family clan produced many well educated women: Julie's cousin Maria Gortynsky-Pavlova (1854 - 1938) was the first Russian woman - professor of Paleontology and academician of Academy of Sciences of USSR, her other cousin Olga Gortynsky (1855 - 1903) was among the first Russian women licensed to practice as a Doctor of Medicine). Upon graduation Julie studied in Paris and Geneva. \n\nNatalie was born in Geneva on April 15, 1887 and was in Russia a few times until 1895 when her mother Julie was exiled from Russia with no permission to return due to her unreliability and close ties with emigre Vladimir Debogory-Mokrievich. After Nicholas II's amnesty of 1905 Julie returned to Russia and Natalie had never seen her mother again. Natalie married Albert Sonnichsen, a writer, had one child Eric in 1909, and was divorced from him in 1919. Eventually she moved to Paris, after losing custody of her son in a very public legal fight, and she worked as Sol Hurok's publicity person in Europe and eventually a writer for the \"International Herald Tribune\". She died in 1939 in Paris, and her ashes are interred in vault no. 4780 in the columbarium at Père Lachaise Cemetery in Paris.\n\nShe worked as the assistant of the physician and military intelligence officer in the service of the U.S. War Department, Harris Ayers Houghton, who paid for her services out of his own private funds. Houghton engaged her as his personal and investigative assistant for nine months, and subsequently claimed that no public funds were used for her services. She had obtained a Russian version of the Protocols of Zion from the notorious White Russian and extremely antisemitic tsarist officer Boris Brasol, and thereafter she requested, under her own initiative and received authorization to translate it into the English language. She did not work alone, however, but with close consultation with Brasol, and another former tsarist officer, General G. J. Sosnowsky.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42835760", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42835760", "title": "New Russia Party", "text": "New Russia Party\n\nThe New Russia Party (), or Novorossiya Party, is a political party operating in Novorossiya, a union of self-declared separatist states within the internationally recognized borders of Ukraine. The organization was founded by pro-Russian separatists, under the leadership of Pavel Gubarev, on 14 May 2014. The party is formally known as the Social-Political Movement \"New Russia Party\" (). It is not registered with the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine.\n\nThe party was banned from participating in the 2014 Donbass parliamentary elections because they \"were not able to hold a founding conference.\"<ref name=\"http://www.mk.ru/politics/2014/10/30/dadut-li-novorossii-sdelat-vybor.html\"> Will the New Russia to make a choice?, Moskovskij Komsomolets (31 October 2014)</ref> Members of the party took part in the election on the election lists of \"Free Donbass\".\n\nAccording to the party, their aim is \"the withdrawal of all south-eastern Ukrainian lands from the jurisdiction of the Kiev authorities ... based on the principle of direct democracy ... creating a new, truly fair, scientifically and technologically advanced state.\"\n\nThe New Russia Party was founded on 13 May 2014 in Donetsk, Ukraine. Its creation was announced by Pavel Gubarev, then acting as \"People's Governor\" of Donetsk, who stated, \"The new party will be led only by those people who in this difficult time showed themselves as true patriots of their Motherland and proved themselves as true fighters and defenders of their Fatherland.\"\n\nThe first congress was attended by pro-Russian separatist officials of the Donetsk People's Republic, Donbass Militia. Notable figures were involved, including: Donetsk Republic leader Pavel Gubarev (member of the Neo-Nazi Russian National Unity), writer Alexander Prokhanov, fascist political scientist and Eurasia Party leader Aleksandr Dugin, and Valery Korovin. The congress announced the creation of a new self-declared confederate state called 'New Russia'. The state would, according to Dugin, have its capital city in Donetsk, Russian Orthodox Christianity as the state religion, and would nationalize major industries. According to Gubarev the state would also include (the major cities currently not under control of separatists) Kharkiv, Kherson, Dnipropetrovsk, Mykolaiv and Zaporizhia.\n\nOn 2 November 2014, internationally unrecognized elections were held in the Donetsk and Lugansk People's Republics. The New Russia Party was refused registration in the DPR because it had not held a founding conference. It subsequently stood candidates under the Free Donbass grouping, which received 31.6% of the vote.\n\nEkaterina Gubareva was set to head the election list of Free Donbass party for the People's Soviet of the Donetsk People's Republic of 11 November 2018 but on 29 September 2018 she was excluded from this list after she was hold in custody by unknown people. After this incident she left for Rostov-on-Don (in Russia).\n\nAs part of the sanctions imposed during the Ukrainian crisis, the party was placed on US sanctions lists on 19 December 2014. The Treasury Department stated that the party, which had been \"created to unite all supporters for the establishment of an independent federal state of Novorossiya and to withdraw all southeastern lands in Ukraine from the authority of Kyiv\", was \"designated because it has engaged in actions or policies that threaten the peace, security, stability, sovereignty, or territorial integrity of Ukraine\".\n"}
{"id": "239465", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=239465", "title": "Old Firm", "text": "Old Firm\n\nThe Old Firm is the collective name for the Scottish football clubs Celtic and Rangers, which are both based in Glasgow. The two clubs are by far the most successful and popular in Scotland, and the rivalry between them has become deeply embedded in Scottish culture. It has reflected, and contributed to, political, social, and religious division and sectarianism in Scotland. As a result, the fixture has had an enduring appeal around the world.\n\nBetween them the two clubs have won 103 Scottish League championships (Rangers with 54 and Celtic with 49), 71 Scottish Cups, and 45 Scottish League Cups. Interruptions to their ascendancy have occurred rarely, most recently with the challenge of the New Firm of Aberdeen and Dundee United in the first half of the 1980s. Since the 1985–86 season, one half of the Old Firm has won the Scottish League consistently and in all but one of seventeen seasons between 1995–96 and 2011–12, both clubs finished in the top two places. In recent years Rangers have endured financial difficulties, and were liquidated in 2012. Subsequently, they were re-established as a new company and entered the fourth tier of the Scottish league. Celtic have won the last seven consecutive Scottish championships.\n\nCeltic and Rangers have played each other 414 times in major competitions: Rangers have won 159 matches, Celtic 156 matches, and 99 ended in a draw.\n\nThe clubs have large fan bases around Glasgow and Scotland, and have supporters clubs in most towns throughout Scotland and Northern Ireland and in many cities around the world. In 2005 the presence of Rangers and Celtic was estimated to be worth £120 million to the Scottish economy each year.\n\nThe origin of the term is unclear but may derive from the two clubs' initial match in which the commentators referred to the teams as \"like two old, firm friends\", or alternatively may stem from a satirical cartoon published in a magazine prior to the 1904 Scottish Cup Final between the sides, depicting an elderly man with a sandwich board reading \"Patronise The Old Firm: Rangers, Celtic Ltd\", highlighting the mutual commercial benefits of their meetings. The name may also be a reference to these two teams being among the original eleven members of the Scottish Football League formed in 1890.\n\nThe competition between the two clubs had roots in more than just a simple sporting rivalry. It has as much to do with Northern Ireland as Scotland and this can be seen in the flags, cultural symbols, and emblems of both clubs. It was infused with a series of complex disputes, sometimes centred on religion (Catholic and Protestant), Northern Ireland-related politics (Loyalist and Republican), national identity (British or Irish Scots), and social ideology (Conservatism and Socialism).\n\nAnother primary contributor to the intensity of the rivalry in the west of Scotland was that Rangers supporters are historically native Scots and Ulster Scots, and Celtic supporters are historically Irish-Scots. Although the confrontation between the two sets of supporters was often labelled as 'Sectarianism', 'Native-Immigrant tension' was an equally accurate catalyst for hostility between the two teams' supports in Scotland. Rangers' traditional support was largely from the Protestant community, and for decades the club had an unwritten rule whereby they would not knowingly sign a player of the Catholic faith. The policy was decried by Graeme Souness when he became manager, and he brought ex-Celtic forward Mo Johnston to the club in a very public move away from the practice, which no longer continues. Celtic's support was largely from those of Irish Roman Catholic backgrounds and while the club practiced no exclusion of Protestants and signed many of them to play for the team, there was a pro-Catholic mindset among some of the employees. One effect is that Scottish flags are rarer than might be expected amongst both sets of supporters; Celtic fans are more likely to wave the Irish tricolour while Rangers fans tend to wave the Union Jack.\n\nCeltic were founded in 1887 on the promise that the club would deliver much-needed money and resources to a poverty-stricken Irish Catholic population in East Glasgow (although records indicated little of this income reached those causes) and quickly drew large crowds at their matches, becoming a symbol for that section of the local population which were marginalised in other areas of society and had previously shown little interest in the emerging sport. Rangers had been founded much earlier in 1872 and had no particular religious leanings in their early decades, indeed they were described by the press as friends of Celtic in match reports at the turn of the 20th century. In that era Rangers had won three successive championships and expanded their stadium at great expense, only for one of the new wooden stands to collapse during a Scotland v England fixture in April 1902, killing 25 and injuring hundreds of others. The disaster forced the club to rebuild Ibrox for a second time and financed this by selling off their best players, with Celtic in particular taking advantage of the weakness to win six successive titles between 1905 and 1910 before Rangers returned to their previous strength. The sporting side of the rivalry was now established, with their meetings providing considerable financial benefit as seen in the Scottish Cup finals of 1904 (which appears to be the origin of the 'Old Firm' term) and 1909 when they drew twice and a further replay was ordered, with supporters of both teams deciding to riot on the assumption the results were being fixed to make more money – amid multiple injuries and considerable damage to Hampden Park, the trophy was withheld.\n\nThe political aspect of the feud also developed in that period, with perhaps the most significant development occurring in 1912 when Belfast shipbuilders Harland and Wolff (a company which already had anti-Catholic hiring practices) set up a new yard in Glasgow due to instability in Ireland. Hundreds of Ulster Protestant workers, many of Scottish descent, also made the move, and they adopted Rangers – the closest large club to the Govan yard – as their new team. Other events such as World War I and the Easter Rising contributed to the club being adopted as a symbol of the Scottish establishment and of British Unionism in the face of Irish Catholic rebellion personified by the success of Celtic and from that time on, many across Scotland and Northern Ireland (and the diaspora of those communities in England, North America and elsewhere) became supporters of Rangers or Celtic over and above their local teams according to their own political and religious leanings, including polarised attitudes towards 'The Troubles'.\n\nNevertheless, this dividing line seems to be blurred in 21st century Glasgow: religious adherence in general is falling, \"mixed marriages\" between Protestants and Catholics have never been higher and the old certainties — the Rangers supporter voting Conservative and the Celtic supporter voting Labour — are no longer in evidence. In 2005 both Celtic and Rangers joined a project to tackle bigotry and sectarianism in sport, but there was little change in the behaviour and subsequent prosecution of the fans.\n\nThe majority of Rangers and Celtic supporters do not get involved in sectarianism, but serious incidents do occur with a tendency for the actions of a minority to dominate the headlines. The Old Firm rivalry fuelled many assaults on Derby days, and some deaths in the past have been directly related to the aftermath of Old Firm matches. An activist group that monitors sectarian activity in Glasgow has reported that on Old Firm weekends, violent attacks increase ninefold over normal levels. An increase in domestic abuse can also be attributed to Old Firm fixtures.\n\nA freedom of information request found that Strathclyde Police incurred costs of £2.4 million for the seven derbies played during the 2010–11 season, with the clubs only contributing £0.3 million towards that. Other high-profile games involving Rangers and Celtic incurred much lower costs. The reason for the disparity in costs and the contribution made is that Strathclyde Police had to increase its activity elsewhere in Glasgow and beyond, while the clubs were only responsible for costs incurred in the vicinity of their stadium. In a period between April 2016 and December 2017, when nine matches were contested (three each at the club's stadia and three at Hampden), more than £550,000 was spent by Celtic, Rangers, the SFA and the SPFL on policing inside the stadium alone. Rangers paid more than Celtic despite having a smaller capacity and a plan for the away support at Ibrox which required less of a 'human barricade' of officers to separate the rival supporters than was necessary at Celtic Park.\n\nIn 2015, former Rangers player Brian Laudrup said that the Old Firm topped all of the rivalries he had played in, which included the Milan derby and the Fiorentina-Juventus meetings in Italy; ex-Celtic striker Henrik Larsson, who experienced El Clásico in Spain and De Klassieker in the Netherlands, has made similar comments. Jim Bett, who had already played in Iceland prior to joining Rangers in the 1980s and thereafter moved to Belgium, stated that he declined an opportunity to return to the Ibrox club due to the sectarianism associated with life as a footballer in the west of Scotland, in contrast to his positive experiences living abroad.\n\nSupporters of both clubs, when interviewed, have conceded that they do not particularly enjoy the intense atmosphere of Old Firm matches. Opposing fans fought an on-pitch battle in the aftermath of Celtic's 1–0 victory in the 1980 Scottish Cup Final at Hampden. This remains one of the worst invasions onto a football pitch ever reported, and was instrumental in alcohol being banned from football grounds in Scotland.\n\nIn January 1994, Rangers chairman David Murray announced that Celtic fans had been banned from Ibrox due to repeated instances of vandalism to the stadium which Celtic refused to take financial responsibility for. Only one fixture, which ended 1–1, was played before the ban was rescinded (the Scottish Football League passed a resolution preventing clubs from taking that action in future).\n\nThere was serious fan disorder during an Old Firm match played on a Sunday evening in May 1999 at Celtic Park, with the usual tensions heightened by the fact that Rangers could clinch the league title with victory (and it became clear that they would do so from the early stages of the match). Several objects were thrown by Celtic fans, one of which struck referee Hugh Dallas forcing the game to be stopped while he received medical treatment. With many of those in attendance having spent a full weekend drinking alcohol prior to the event, at least four Celtic fans invaded the field of play to confront Dallas during the game, and more missiles were thrown at players on the pitch after the game. Since the events of that day, Old Firm league matches have normally been played in the early afternoon and the possibility of an Old Firm title decider has been deliberately avoided.\n\nOver the hundreds of matches played between the rivals, players and staff have been involved in many incidents beyond the usual bad tackles and red cards commonly associated with derby mataches around the world; in the modern age of video footage, such incidents are more frequently observed, reviewed and scrutinised. In 1987, four players were charged by the police with breach of the peace for their conduct during a match at Ibrox and had to appear at court, with two (Chris Woods and Terry Butcher) convicted and fined. While warming up on the touchline at Celtic Park in January 1998, Rangers' Paul Gascoigne was caught on television reacting to verbal abuse from the stands by briefly miming the playing of a flute (representing The Sash and the typical repertoire of songs on an Orange walk, considered an offensive gesture by Celtic's many supporters of an Irish Catholic background). Gascoigne, who had pleaded his ignorance of the situation after he made the same gesture in a friendly just after joining Rangers in 1995 and had been sent off on his last visit to Celtic six weeks earlier, was fined for the provocative act and left the club later that year. He has stated that he later received threats via telephone calls from persons purporting to be members of the IRA over his behaviour.\n\nIn 2000, after being sent off during an Old Firm match, Rangers midfielder Barry Ferguson was involved in a violent brawl with Celtic fans at a hotel later in the same evening; a year later, Ferguson (by now club captain) was sitting in the stand when he appeared to throw ice packs towards the Celtic dugout after Rangers conceded a late goal, however the referee missed the incident and no action was taken. In that same match, a Celtic supporter was photographed making an 'aeroplane' gesture towards American Rangers player Claudio Reyna a few weeks after the September 11 attacks. A 2004 match at Ibrox which \"descended into even more mayhem and madness than usual\" led to a police enquiry over the conduct of the players and staff.\n\nIn February 2006, Celtic goalkeeper Artur Boruc was cautioned by the police for gestures he made to Rangers supporters during a match at Ibrox; six months later, it was clarified that this was for \"Conduct which appears to incite disorder\" rather than simply making the sign of the cross as he entered his area, as some had thought. He also blessed himself in the fixture in December of that year, annoying Rangers fans who saw it as a provocative act, although the police stated that no offence had been committed. Boruc, who became known as the 'Holy Goalie' for his overt displays of his Catholic faith, escaped personal punishment in 2008 for displaying a t-shirt with the slogan \"God bless the Pope\" and an image of fellow Pole Pope John Paul II after an Old Firm win at Parkhead in April 2008, although Celtic faced scrutiny from FIFA as it was an unauthorised garment under their regulations on slogans. He was fined £500 and warned for (non-religious) gestures made towards Rangers fans in a defeat at the same venue in September of the same year. Prior to an international match between Northern Ireland and Poland in 2009, graffiti of a threatening nature mentioning Boruc appeared on walls in a Rangers-supporting area of Belfast.\n\nIn March 2011, an angry exchange took place on the touchline at Celtic Park between Celtic manager Neil Lennon and Rangers assistant coach Ally McCoist, requiring police officers to separate them, at the end of a match in which three players had also been dismissed; again captured on live television footage, the incident resulted in both men being banned from the dugout for disconduct. A 'crisis meeting' was convened involving the clubs, the Scottish Government and Strathclyde Police some days later regarding the trend of violence among supporters away from the pitch increasing on Old Firm mathdays and concerns that incidents during the matches was a factor. The incident occurred during the tense environment of a season where seven Old Firm matches took place (including a League Cup final and a fight for the title eventually won by Rangers by one point).\n\nDuring the 2018 close season, Rangers announced that they would be cutting the ticket allocation for Celtic fans at Ibrox from around 7,000 (the entire Broomloan Stand) to 800, situated in a corner where smaller travelling supports were usually accommodated, following a fan survey backing the proposal as well as an upturn in season ticket sales. In response, Celtic indicated they would do likewise, bringing to an end a long tradition of both clubs offering an generous proportion of their stadium to their rivals. The development was criticised by former players as diluting the famous atmosphere of the fixtures, although others praised the extra income the change would likely generate.\n\nIn the first Old Firm fixture at Celtic Park under the new arrangements, many more home fans were able to attend but segregation was still required outside the stadium to keep them apart from the smaller away support. In the minutes before kick-off, a main access road was closed as part of the amended segregation plan and thousands of spectators approaching Celtic Park from both directions were directed to the narrow enclosed walkway below the North Stand to reach the opposite side of the stadium, along with those trying to enter that stand via turnstiles. The volume of people in the walkway area built up to the extent that many were unable to move forward with more approaching from either side, and crushing was experienced in the congested area for some minutes, causing panic, with several fans scaling a high perimeter wall and fence to escape; one of them fell from the wall and later required hospital treatment, while four other persons were treated at the scene as the situation subsided. Those involved expressed their anger afterwards regarding the arrangements and the policing at the stadium on the day, with Celtic issuing an official apology to the fans.\n\nFrom 1 March 2012, the police were given more powers to act against Sectarian acts at football matches through the new Offensive Behaviour at Football and Threatening Communications (Scotland) Act 2012. The law was designed specifically to target the Old Firm rivalry by reducing the religious hatred between the two opposing sides. The Act created two new offences, one covering behaviour in and around football matches and the other related to posts sent by either electronic or postal methods. People convicted under the act could face up to five years imprisonment, a much higher sentence than was previously in place. It was hoped it would make it much easier to prosecute this misbehaviour, which had proved difficult in the past.\n\nIn March 2013 a protest by a number of Celtic fans took place to protest against the new laws and the subsequent match bans that a number of fans had received for breaking the Act. The protesters, known as the \"Green Brigade,\" had marched without police authority and the event was therefore cracked down on by local authorities resulting in thirteen arrests. The protestors claim that the police instigated the trouble that occurred at this march. Following the march, media coverage reported that the fans were growing further apart from the police than ever before. They claimed that the trust the fans hold with the police to work in cooperation with them is falling dramatically. The march that took place resulted in a number of complaints from both Celtic and Rangers fan groups that they were harassed by the police.\n\nLabour MSP James Kelly introduced the \"Offensive Behaviour at Football and Threatening Communications (Repeal) (Scotland) Bill\" in June 2017. Kelly had described the 2012 legislation as having \"completely failed to tackle sectarianism\" and as \"illiberal\" which \"unfairly targets football fans\", and was \"condemned by legal experts, human rights organisations and equality groups\". Professor Sir Tom Devine previously spoke of the Football Act as \"\"the most illiberal and counterproductive act passed by our young Parliament to date\" and a \"stain on the reputation of the Scottish legal system for fair dealing\"\". Much was made of when a Sheriff described the law as \"mince\".\n\nAfter passing through the parliamentary process in early 2018, on 19 April the bill received royal assent, repealing the 2012 Act.\n\nGlasgow-based brewers Tennent's were the primary commercial sponsor of both teams for several years; any local business that only sponsored one would likely lose half its customers. Previously, glazing company CR Smith (who later had a deal with Celtic alone), communications firm NTL and English brewers Carling had also sponsored both clubs.\n\nIn 2012, Rangers suffered a financial collapse leading to the liquidation of the commercial entity, however the sporting assets were acquired by a new company which allowed its playing membership to continue unbroken (albeit in the lowest division of the Scottish football league system). As a result, this would mean that for the first time in 120 years, no fixtures would be played between Rangers and Celtic.\n\nThe status of the Old Firm was also challenged, following the logic that since Rangers 'died' during the events of 2012, the rivalry also expired and any matches played since that point would be between Celtic and a 'new Rangers', albeit playing at the same stadium, in the same colours, with the same supporters and some of the same players as before. Adherents to this point of view refer to the club disparagingly as \"Sevco\" (the original name of the post-2012 holding company), and Rangers supporters as 'zombies' or 'the undead'. This difference of opinion became a new factor in the rivalry.\n\nSome Celtic supporters were particularly vociferous in their assertions, to the extent of a group paying for a full-page newspaper advertisement in January 2015 announcing that their club would soon play its first fixture against the new Rangers.\n\nIt is regarded as a continuation of the same club by the SPFL chief executive Neil Doncaster; external governing bodies such as UEFA, the European Club Association and FIFA have never formally stated their position on Rangers but have issued general remarks about the continuation of a club's history when controlled by a new company.\n\nIn 2013 numerous complaints were made to the Advertising Standards Authority (ASA) over official marketing communications from Rangers which stated they were \"Scotland’s most successful club\", with this claim being disputed as the complainants declared the club had only been in existence for one year. Having considered the evidence including advice from UEFA, the ASA did not uphold the complaints.\n\nIn July 2012, a large banner was displayed at Celtic Park during a game showing a cartoon zombie representing Rangers rising from the grave before being shot by a sniper, drawing criticism due to the gunman resembling a paramilitary from the Northern Ireland conflict, although Celtic escaped formal punishment over the matter. Celtic fan groups have continued to display banners claiming Rangers are ‘dead’ as well as mocking other aspects of their economic problems.\n\nCeltic and their followers also became involved in other legal proceedings relating to Rangers, including the outcome of the long-running EBT investigation.\n\nIt took Rangers four years to climb through the lower divisions and re-take their place in the Scottish Premiership for the 2016–17 season; in the interim only two cup semi-finals were played between the clubs and Celtic won all four league titles by significant margins (never less than 15 points). The rivalry resumed in earnest by way of six matches during 2016–17, with Celtic eliminating Rangers from both cups at the semi-final stage on the way to lifting the trophies and emerging victorious in three of the matches in the league championship, which they also won without losing a game to secure their sixth successive title and a domestic treble. The 2017–18 season was much the same: Celtic won three of the Old Firm league fixtures plus a Scottish Cup semi-final meeting and lifted all three domestic trophies; Rangers finished third, behind Aberdeen.\n\nSince the administration and liquidation of \"The Rangers Football Club plc\", the clubs have faced each other fourteen times. Celtic have won eleven of these matches, with Rangers winning a single match via a penalty shootout. The remaining two fixtures were drawn.\n\n\"Updated following match on 2 September 2018\"\n\nThere are a number of matches between the two clubs that are not recognised in the official records, such as their first competitive meeting in the 1888–89 Glasgow Cup, in which Celtic defeated Rangers 6–1.\n\nDuring the Second World War, the Scottish Football League and Scottish Cup were suspended and in their place unofficial regional league competitions were set up (these were dominated by Rangers). One of these games was a New Year's Day derby in 1943 which Rangers won 8–1.\n\n<nowiki>*</nowiki> \n\n\n\n\n\nThe ferocity of the rivalry has made it rare for a player to represent both teams during his career. Players who played for both sides of the Old Firm included Alec Bennett, Scott Duncan, Robert Campbell, and George Livingstone, who all played before the intensity of the rivalry had started prior to 1912, as well as later players: Alfie Conn, Maurice Johnston, Kenny Miller, Steven Pressley and Mark Brown (none of whom moved directly between the two clubs).\n\n\n\n\n\"As of end of season 2017–18. Any current players in bold.\"\n\n\"As of end of season 2017–18. Any current players in bold.\"\n\n\"As of 2 September 2018. Minimum 10 Old Firm games as manager.\"\n\nThe stadium attendance records for Rangers' Ibrox (118,567, January 1939) and Celtic's Celtic Park (at least 83,500, January 1938) were both set at Old Firm matches; however while the Ibrox figure is the Rangers club record (and the record for any domestic league match in the United Kingdom), Celtic's biggest 'home' attendance was the 1969–70 European Cup semi-final with Leeds United, moved to the larger Hampden Park due to the anticipated interest: the crowd of 136,505 is a record for any match in European international club competitions.\n\nHampden, Scotland's national stadium and home of Queen's Park, is situated roughly an equal distance from Ibrox and Celtic Park in Glasgow. Due to the frequency of the two teams appearing in semi-finals and finals held there (often facing one another), its West and East stands are always allocated to the same club and are informally known as the \"Rangers end\" and \"Celtic end\" respectively. That stadium, once the largest in the world, attracted the largest Old Firm attendance of all time with 132,870 at the 1969 Scottish Cup Final (it is not the record for the competition, with 147,365 having attended the 1937 final which also featured Celtic, versus Aberdeen). The record Scottish League Cup final attendance (107,609; October 1965) was an Old Firm affair, although the tournament record was set in 1947 when Rangers overcame Hibernian in a semi-final before 123,830.\n\nThe 1971 Ibrox disaster – in which 66 Rangers supporters died in a crush on an exterior stairway – occurred at the end of an Old Firm match, although the identity of the opposition was not a factor in the incident other than having drawn a large crowd of at least 75,000 to the event.\n\nSince redevelopments completed in the 1990s, all three venues are all-seater with much smaller capacities of between 50,000 and 60,000, meaning the above records may never be beaten – the attendance of 72,069 at 'old style' Hampden for the Old Firm 1989 Scottish Cup Final has become a landmark figure as no match in Scotland has come close to matching it since.\n\nWhen compared to other clubs in Scotland, the Old Firm maintain considerably higher attendances; Celtic's recorded crowds tend to be higher than Rangers as their stadium holds approximately 9,000 more seats. Both clubs (among others) have been accused of inflating their attendance figures by counting all season ticket holders in the crowd when many have not actually attended the match in question, with the accurate figures reported to the police for crowd control being lower.\n\nThe average attendances of both Old Firm clubs are regularly within the top twenty across Europe.\n\nThe intensity of the rivalry is fuelled by the clubs' historical duopoly in Scottish football, with most meetings between them being pivotal in deciding the destiny of a championship or cup and anything but a title-winning season seen as a major disappointment, particularly as it would usually mean 'the enemy' has won the trophy.\n\nStatistics show that Rangers and Celtic have been by far the most successful clubs involved in the Scottish Football League since its formation in 1890. The pair were the only participants in every edition of the competition until 2012, when Rangers were removed from the top tier for economic reasons; they returned for the 2016–17 season. Of the 121 championships played, 103 (85%) have been won by one of the Old Firm with Rangers ahead on 54 titles to Celtic's 49, and 19 between ten other clubs (including a shared title between Rangers and Dumbarton).\n\nAlthough there have been brief periods when silverware went elsewhere, there have also been long spells of domination by each Old Firm club, the longest run of 9-in-a-row being first set by Celtic between 1966 and 1974, matched by Rangers between 1989 and 1997.\n\nOn just five occasions since 1891 have neither of the Glasgow giants been the league winner nor the runner-up. This includes 1964–65, the only season in which both Rangers and Celtic failed to finish in the top three places. The Old Firm have finished 1st and 2nd 48 times overall. Between the resurgence of Celtic in the mid-1990s and the liquidation of Rangers in 2012, '1–2' finishes were recorded in all but one of 17 \"SPL-era\" seasons.\n\nThe longest sequence without an Old Firm title is three years between 1983 and 1985, while the longest unbroken run of championships between the two clubs began immediately afterwards and is ongoing: 33 seasons and counting since 1986 (overtaking a previous sequence of 27 years between 1905 and 1931).\n\n\"As of end of season 2017–18. Runners-up in (parentheses)\"\n\nAlthough the initial Scottish Cup was played in 1874, 15 years before Celtic were formed, they have still won the competition more than any other club - 38 times, plus 18 runners-up - with Rangers not far behind on 33 (also 18 runners-up).\n\nThere have been 14 Old Firm finals, while there have been just 39 finals involving neither Rangers or Celtic, 17 of which were in the 1800s.\n\nThe longest run of Old Firm wins is 11 between 1971 and 1981.\n\n\"As of end of season 2017–18. Runners-up in (parentheses)\"\n\n\nThe Scottish League Cup has been contested 73 times since 1946–47. Rangers are dominant in terms of wins with 27 from 34 finals, with Celtic some way behind on 18 wins from 33 finals. 13 other clubs share 28 wins between them. 14 of its finals have been Old Firm occasions, while 20 featured neither of them.\n\nThe longest run of Old Firm wins is 8 between 1964 and 1971.\n\n\"As of end of the 2018–19 competition which concluded in December 2018. Runners-up in (parentheses)\"\n\n\nThe Rangers–Celtic rivalry in women's football has existed only in the 21st century, with Rangers W.F.C. having formed in 2008, one year after the Celtic F.C. women's team. The footballing environment is also very different, with a third team in the city – Glasgow City F.C. – not merely competing in the same division as the more famous names and attracting a similar fanbase, but dominant over them in the domestic league, with eleven consecutive titles up to 2017. Rangers have only finished above Celtic once (2014), and neither club has won the Scottish Women's Cup; Celtic have lifted the SWPL Cup on one occasion, in 2010.\n\nFixtures between the teams generate extra media interest due to their association with the parent clubs and are referred to as \"Old Firm\" matches as a result. On 13 April 2016, Celtic women’s team played their first competitive match at Celtic Park, marking the occasion with a 5–1 victory over Rangers.\n\n"}
{"id": "49187631", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49187631", "title": "Pink capitalism", "text": "Pink capitalism\n\nPink capitalism (also called rainbow capitalism, homocapitalism or gay capitalism) is a term used to describe, from a critical perspective, the incorporation of the LGBT movement and sexual diversity to capitalism and the market economy; especially as this incorporation pertains to the gay, cisgender, western, white, and upper middle class communities and market.\n\nSpecifically, the term refers to the targeted inclusion of the gay community, which has acquired sufficient purchasing power (referred to in this context as pink money) to generate a market focused specifically on them. Examples of such targeted inclusion are bars and nightclubs, LGBT tourism, or specialized culture consumption.\n\nThe term is often used in discussions of the conflict between an increasing opportunity for homosocialization and the drive towards an assimilation of sexual diversity caused by companies' definition of new consumption patterns. The new body aesthetics and fashion trends set by advertising canons employing pink capitalism, for example, are sometimes argued to push gender-diverse communities towards socially accepted sexual standards.\n\nAccording to some authors, the global evolution of \"pink capitalism\" has been parallel to the development of modern capitalism in the West. Although historical evidence shows that diversity of sexualities has always existed, different periods in businesses' development targeted at the LGBTI community, which have contributed to the construction of diverse sexual identities, can be distinguished.\n\nSince the last decades of the 19th century, bars, cabarets, brothels, and even some magazines targeted specifically at the gay community have existed in cities across Europe and the United States. Although members of the LGBTI community were still often publicly persecuted, the creation of these businesses corresponded to the beginning of the first drive for LGBTQ rights. This first LGBT movement was disintegrated between the First and Second World Wars and the rise of fascism in Europe.\n\nAfter the Second World War, Western culture was influenced by the homophobia of fascism. Although LGBTI consumption remained marginal, during this time various homophile associations were created to seek positive assessment of homosexuality by society through meetings, publications, or charity parties. These associations opposed behaviors associated with homosexuals deemed marginal and perverted, such as promiscuity, cruising, prostitution, saunas, and erotic magazines.\n\nThe Stonewall riots of 1969 marked the beginning of the LGBT liberation movement, characterized by increased public visibility of homosexuality, the aim of decriminalizing homosexuality, and increased social and political integration. The movement resulted in a negative social response, in part driven by the HIV/AIDS pandemic, which in turn led to the development of the queer movement by discriminated gay groups.\n\nDuring the 1990s, the discrimination of the gay community diminished, broadening LGBT people's access to formerly heteronormative jobs. This resulted in increased purchasing power for the LGBT community, or the creation of \"pink money\". Homosexuals in particular represented a large portion of this purchasing power. The trend is closely related to that of DINKs, couples with two incomes and no children.\n\nThese processes are especially evident in the dynamics of gay neighborhoods, which attracted LGBT people with their affordability and the social security provided by living with other sexual minorities. These neighborhoods, after decreasing social stigma made them \"trendy\", then gradually underwent the gentrification process. Rising prices expelled the LGBT population that could not afford the new expenses. An increasingly specialized market developed around LGBTI community in parallel with these other events. This market specifically serving the needs of the LGBTI community by selling services and products exclusively designed to meet their needs. Different companies and firms in turn began incorporating the defense of LGBT rights into their company policies and codes of conduct, and even financing LGBT events.\n\nThis kind of sociosexual relations appraisement is characteristic of gay modelling, which has its origin in the companies' new formation of a concentrated sexual market through rainbow capitalism.\n\nAlthough it is likely that without the political legitimacy given by the capitalist model of consumption some civil and political rights would not have been achieved, the acquisition of these has come at the expense of the integration of LGBT people in a heteronormative consumerist framework. In this sense, pink capitalism is similar to patriarchal postfordist capitalism, which has promoted the integration of women into productive labour while at the same time stimulating the incorporation of men to reproductive labor.\n\nSome argue that capitalist society has not accepted all sexually-diverse people equally and a greater social tolerance exists if LGBTI people have greater access to resources, tying discussions of sexual identity to discussions of gender, ethnicity, ability, and social class. Many critics maintain that only gay, cisgender, western, able-bodied, white, urban, and middle- or upperclass men tend to be accepted into the social context of consumption. This framework may promote an homogeneous and heteronormative ideal of the gay man, who has a certain beauty, a muscular and hyper-sexualized body, masculine behavior, career success and a specific purchasing power, establishing which bodies are desirable and which are not, and marginalizing those do not fit this aesthetic model, even from the gay community itself.\n\nWhile rainbow capitalism has resulted in the achievement of some symbolic rights (such as equal marriage or recognition of gender identity), these rights are subordinated to the people's resources, income, and social position.\n\nIn this regard, the trend the gay movement has not defined the political agenda, but instead has adapted heteropatriarchal and heteronormative capitalism into a new form of patriarchal capitalism. This new capitalism incorporates the social vision of family, property, body, economic organization, and sexual experience from the heterosexual community. It has struggled for equal marriage, without questioning the concept of marriage, making the fight for equal marriage a goal of the LGBT movement that makes it seem there is nothing else to fight for.\n\nAlthough the first political movements advocating sexual freedoms (like Queer anarchism) fell within the radical left, LGBT claims have only belatedly been integrated into the more moderate left political struggle – largely a result of rainbow capitalism. Historically, the political left has treated the LGBT movement (similarly to the treatment of feminism) as extravagance, without attending to the specific needs of non-heterosexual people, merely lumping them in with the rest of the working class. Lesbians, transsexuals, and effeminate gays are relegated to unskilled jobs because they do not possess a certain patriarchal masculinity.\n\nToday the LGBT movement is increasingly being used for political and economic purposes; the achievement of \"symbolic rights\" for the community is used to justify profiting off celebrations of sexual identity. The requirement of the protection of LGBT rights to give aid to developing countries, and the use of LGBT equality to support nationalistic and anti-immigration policies are also examples of pink capitalism. The LGBT community, traditionally skeptical of the governments, has become increasingly supportive of homonationalism.\n\nIn many parts of the globe, there have existed for decades political groups that denounce \"pink capitalism\" and commodification of LGBTI rights often as queer or pink blocs within LGBTI Pride Parades.\n\nFollowing the pass of equal marriage in Spain, members of the LGBTQ community felt the Pride Parade was no longer protest demonstration and instead becoming a tourist business. Since 2006, several demonstrations against LGBTI commodification have been held annually in suburbs of Madrid, called \"Alternative Pride\" or \"Critical Pride\" (\"Orgullo Alternativo or Orgullo Crítico\").\n\nThe first \"Indignant Pride\" (\"Orgullo Indignado\") parade was held, calling for a different sexuality regardless of economic performance which should take into account gender, ethnicity, age, and social class intersectionalities besides other non-normative corporalities.\n\nLater, the event retrieved the name \"Critical Pride\" (\"Orgullo Crítico\"), based on in part on objections to \"pink capitalism\". Movements in other cities, such as Barcelona and Seville, have also been organizing events in this direction.\n\nAlso in 2011, the momentum of 15-M collects for the International Day of Action for Trans Depathologization to vindicate the social space for other identities that did not fit within the gender binary system. Every October, various activities included in Trans October (\"Octubre Trans\") are organized to question heteropatriarchy and \"pink capitalism\".\n"}
{"id": "548419", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=548419", "title": "Shtadlan", "text": "Shtadlan\n\nA shtadlan (, ; , ) was an intercessor for a local European Jewish community. They represented the interests of the community, especially those of a town's ghetto, and worked as a \"lobbyist\" negotiating with the authorities holding power for the safety and benefit of Jews. The process of Jewish intercession is known as \"shtadlanus\" ().\n\nShtadlanim (plural of shtadlan) relied on many tactics to intercede on the behalf of the Jewish community. These included emotional appeals, such as begging, rational appeals such as trying to implement charters or decrees, and also gifts of money or other goods to gain favor. Elyakim Zelig from Jampol, reported specifically on the need to beg for the Pope’s favor during a mission to Rome in 1757, in which he tried to gain support for defending Jews against blood libel.\n\nTypically, a Jewish community (\"qahal\") governed its own internal affairs. The interactions with the outside society, such as tax collection and enforcement of various restrictions and compulsions imposed on the community, were arranged by an internal governing board.\n\nThe \"shtadlan\" emerged to prominence in 17th century Europe, with the rise of absolutism, as an intermediator between the resident Jewish community and the monarchical government in control of the region. The position was appointed by the government, and could even be named as a royal official. Although he officially represented the Jewish community only, the \"shtadlan\" became a tool of the government.\n\nShtadlan played large roles in the Jewish communities, especially in the Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth. One prominent shtadlan was Barukh ben David Yavan born in the early 1700s. Yavan was instrumental in many secret missions between the king of Poland, Augustus III and Frederick II of Prussia, helping to end the War of the Austrian Succession. Yavan was also in contact with a papal nuncio in Warsaw allowing him to save many Talmuds after the Kamieniec disputation that led to most Talmuds being burned. Jacob Teitel, born in 1851 under czarist Russian rule, is another example of an influential shtadlan. After a pogrom began in the city of Saratov, he used his connection to the regional governor to stop anti-Jewish actions from continuing.\n\nDuring the late 19th century, the use of the press and public opinion as leverage for \"shtadlanus\" activity became the most important change in the work of the shadlan, becoming closely associated with relief efforts for victims of pogroms in Russia as well as the early foundings of Political Zionism.\n\nTraditionally, \"shtadlanim\" were seen as great protectors of Jewish communities, and received from the communities' governing Jewish religious authorities.\n\n"}
{"id": "25693313", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25693313", "title": "Sybil Morrison", "text": "Sybil Morrison\n\nSybil Morrison (2 January 1893 – 26 April 1984) was a British pacifist and a suffragist as well as being active with several other radical causes.\n\nAs a young and enthusiastic suffragist, Morrison was persuaded by Emmeline Pankhurst that she was too young to go to prison. During World War I she began in 1916 to drive ambulances in London, and attributed her decision to become a pacifist to the sight of a Zeppelin being shot down over Potters Bar. \"In the streets of London, ordinary, decent people were clapping and cheering and dancing as though at a play or a circus……..I suddenly saw that war made yet another impact on human beings; it deprived them of their humanity. I became a pacifist then and nothing has happened since to alter my conviction that war is a crime against God and humanity.\"\n\nMorrison became in 1936 one of the first women members of the Peace Pledge Union (PPU), a British pacifist organisation and UK section of War Resisters International (WRI). She served as a Campaign Organiser and Chair and wrote the first history of the PPU. In 1940 she spent a month in Holloway Prison, having spoken against the war at London's Speakers' Corner. Morrison was an active member of the Women's International League for Peace & Freedom (WILPF), being at one stage the Chair of its British branch.\n\nSybil Morrison was secretary of the short-lived Women's Peace Campaign, set up by the PPU at the end of 1939. It had been hoped to obtain the signatures of one million women against the Second World War but as Morrison admitted: \"The invasion of Scandinavia has, of course, made it much more difficult now to approach people about signing an appeal for negotiations because opinion is hardening against the pacifist.\" The Campaign was doomed after the surrender of the French in June, 1940 but the collapse may also have had something to do with the opposition of John Middleton Murry, editor of Peace News. Murry was described as having a \"frightful\" attitude towards women and was not at all supportive of the campaign.\n\nMorrison was the Organising Secretary and Chair of the Six Point Group (c.1948-1950). The Group campaigned for legislation on assault against children, on support for widows, on legislation in support of unmarried mothers, and on issues of equal rights and equal pay. Another member of the Group was Dora Russell, second wife of Bertrand Russell. Morrison was also active with the Howard League for Penal Reform and the National Peace Council. She was a vice-president of the Fellowship Party, a small British political party that attracted many peace activists.\n\nShe was a close friend of leading peace activists Donald Soper and Fenner Brockway, and of the pacifist actress Sybil Thorndike - they each referred to 'the other Sybil'. She was a lesbian who was once described as \"the most famous dyke in London\". For the last few years of her life she shared a house with Myrtle Solomon, who was the general secretary of the Peace Pledge Union and later the chair of WRI. In the 1930s she had a relationship with another suffragist, Dorothy Evans, which was considered shocking at the time.\n\nOther people with whom Sybil worked included Vera Brittain, Alex Comfort, Laurence Housman, Hugh Brock, and Kathleen Lonsdale and many other leading individuals in radical politics during much of the 20th century. Even towards the end of her life she took an active interest in politics, turning up at the beginning of an anti Falklands War march.\n"}
{"id": "29807194", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29807194", "title": "Synergia Ranch", "text": "Synergia Ranch\n\nSynergia Ranch is an ecovillage founded in 1969 by John P. Allen, the inventor and former Director of Research of Biosphere 2 and Marie Harding, its present manager. \n\nSynergia Ranch operates as a private retreat and workshop center for small groups. It is located in Santa Fe County, New Mexico, 15 miles south of the city of Santa Fe.\n\n"}
{"id": "34339598", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34339598", "title": "Tehran Peace Museum", "text": "Tehran Peace Museum\n\nThe Tehran Peace Museum is a member of the International Network of Museums for Peace. The main objective of the museum is to promote a culture of peace through raising awareness about the devastating consequences of war, with a focus on the health and environmental impacts of chemical weapons.\n\nCurrently housed in a building donated by the municipality of Tehran within the historic City Park, the Tehran Peace Museum is as much an interactive peace center as a museum.\n\nOn June 29, 2007, a memorial for the poison gas victims of the Iran–Iraq War (1980–88), along with a Peace Museum, was completed in a park in Tehran, capital of Iran. These facilities were established by the Society for Chemical Weapons Victims Support (an Iranian NGO), the city of Tehran, some other NGOs, and individuals and groups in Hiroshima.\n\nThe museum coordinates a peace education program that holds workshops on humanitarian law, disarmament, tolerance, and peace education. At the same time, it hosts conferences on the culture of peace, reconciliation, international humanitarian law, disarmament, and peace advocacy.\n\nAdditionally, the museum houses a documentary studio that provides a workspace wherein the individual stories of victims of warfare can be captured and archived for the historical record. The museum’s peace library includes a collection of literature spanning topics from international law to the implementation of peace to oral histories of veterans and victims of war. The 3D Holographic images are exhibited here. They have been made from the portraits of Iran–Iraq War's Martyrs. They designed by Hesam Bani-Eghbal and his team on Hesam Animation Studio.\n\nPermanent and rotating peace-related art exhibitions, displaying the work of amateur international and Iranian artists and children's drawings, are also housed in the museum complex. Finally, the Iranian secretariat for the international organization Mayors for Peace is housed in the Tehran Peace Museum.\n\nIts founding began with a conversation between the founders of the Tehran-based Society for Chemical Weapons Victims Support (SCWVS) and a coordinator for the International Peace Museums Network. This, as well as a visit to Hiroshima, Japan by members of SCWVS, fed into the desire for a museum in Tehran.\n\nIt was in Hiroshima where the suffering from atomic arms was able to convert most powerfully into a drive for peace manifested via a peace museum. This ability to use the intense suffering of war to highlight the need for peace made the Tehran Peace Museum’s founders realize Iran's parallel suffering from chemical arms and the need for a parallel drive for peace.\n\nWhile visiting Hiroshima Peace Memorial Museum, the founders of the Tehran Peace Museum realized the necessity of involving the victims of war in the creation of the museum. Only these individuals could provide credible accounts of the harsh realities of war and their correlating desire for peace. The most moving, enthusiastic, and relevant of these war survivors emerged as the Iranian victims of Saddam Hussein's chemical weapons attacks, the majority of whom were already in contact with SCWVS. This group of victims has proven to be extremely passionate about sharing their stories and serving as living monuments to the atrocities of war.\n\nOn June 29, 2011, concurrent with the anniversary of the gas attack on the city of Sardasht in 1987 and the Day of Campaign against Chemical Weapons, the new building of the Tehran Peace Museum was officially opened for public. during the ceremony, a number of guests from different countries, including the director of Hiroshima peace museum, a delegation representing the survivors of Hiroshima atomic bombing, survivors of chemical weapons attack from Halabja, Northern Iraq, as well many Iranian activists and war veterans attended.\n\nAn observance of the International Day of Remembrance for all victims of chemical warfare was held in the Tehran Peace Museum on Sunday, April 29, 2012. Many participants attended the event, including survivors of chemical warfare, representatives of international organizations, academics, journalists, and others.\n\nIn the memorial ceremony, messages of the UN Secretary General and the OPCW (Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons) Director General were delivered.\n\nOther parts of the program included a statement by a representative of the Iranian victims of chemical warfare, music performance, and the planting of olive trees.\n\nAddress: Northern gate of the City Park (Park-e Shahr), Tehran, Iran.\n\nTel: +98-21-66731076\n\nDays closed: Friday\n\nOpening Hours: From 9 am to 5 pm every day\n\nAdmission: Free\n\n"}
{"id": "47533003", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47533003", "title": "Teleadministration", "text": "Teleadministration\n\nTeleadministration is based on the concept that documents in electronic format have legal value. Administrative informatics is not new, but for many years it was merely Information Technology applied to legal documents, that is, the reproduction of paper-based legal documents into electronic file systems. Instead, Teleadministration turns this approach into its head. It is based on research conducted in 1978, the year when, at a conference promoted by the Court of Cassation, launched the then-futuristic idea that an electronic document could have legal value. 1978 was also the year in which the first research on digital signatures (RSA) was published in the United States, yet it would take more than twenty-five years for jurists and mathematicians to start working together.\n\nFor many years, and even before 1978, IT helped Public Administration but kept a “safe distance”, assuming that the ‘sacred nature’ of the Law demanded the use of pen and paper. Information Technology merely managed and filed copies of legal documents: it was known as “parallel IT”, since it was an accessory to the activity with formal value, the one based on pen and paper.\n\nThus, the logical, legal and material premise of Teleadministration is the conferment of legal value to IT documents.\n\nIn Italy, the linguistic expression teleamministrazione was first used in 1991 at the Roman ‘La Sapienza’ university, during a conference organised by the Court of Cassation, in which it was said that: «the new system of administrative information technology is called “teleadministration” because all the work of the Public Administration will be carried out through devices, that could also be computers, linked to the central server through a network.» Teleadministration was indeed considered a type of teleworking.\n\nWith Teleadministration, amministrative procedures become electronic administrative procedures and, more specifically, those that are initiated by a party realize the electronic One Stop Shop.\n\nIn the decades from 1970 to 1990, the Court of Cassation was at the core of research on the relationship between IT and Law, organising international conferences every five years on the topic. The 1993 international conference featured the fundamentals of teleadministration, providing the details of the administrative systems behind the One Stop Shop concept:\nIt should be noted that the 5th fundamental mentions electronic rather than digital signatures. This is because, in the jurists’ domain, digital signatures were not yet known. The generic reference to the electronic signature is however valid, and its general nature is actually suitable for the rules contained six years later in the Directive 1999/93/EC.\nAs we will see, the Directive refers in particular to all procedures initiated by private citizens, but the system remains valid for all procedures initiated by the administration offices as well.\n\nThe legally accepted form of acts and documents evolved according to the following stages:\nIn Italy, Phase 2 was launched by Art 15, para, 2, Law N. 59 of 15 March 1997, (the so-called ‘Bassanini 1’ law: it established the legal value of electronic documents, while regulations would establish the authentication criteria). The EC intervened later with its Directive 1999/93/EC of the European Parliament and the Council of 13 December 1999 (Transposed by Law Decree N.10 of 23 January 2002), which imposes an obligation on Member States to give legal value to documents with digital signatures (not directly named as such, but all their features are described in the directive). It also establishes that electronic documents should not be rejected a priori, hence opening to a range of different solutions to establish the authorship of a document (the so-called ‘weak signatures’).\n\nThe 1993 Directive was revoked and absorbed (for reasons of legal certainty and clarity) by Regulation 910/2014 of the European Parliament and Council of 23 July 2014 (also known as eIDAS regulation) in the OJEU 28 August 2014, which did not renege on the principle of also accepting the so-called ‘weak signatures’.\nIn Italy, The move to Phase 3 was established by Art.40 of Legislative sl. Decree N.82 of 7 March 2007, Code of Digital Administration (CAD), entitled “Creation of electronic documents”, which states: “Public Administrations make the original copy of their documents with electronic means, according to the provisions of the present Code and the technical specifications of Article 71”. Exceptions are extremely rare: Comma 3 states: by means of appropriate regulations…. , proposed by the delegated Ministers for Public Functions, Innovation and Technology and the Minister for Cultural Heritage and Activities, the categories of administrative documents that can be created on paper in original are identified, having regard to the special historical and archive value they will have by nature” (think, for example, of the resignation of a President of the Republic).\n\nUnfortunately, national administrations are ignoring this provision, and today it is only private companies that are no longer allowed paper-based communication with public administrations (Art. N. 5 bis of the CAD and D.P.C.M. 22 July 2011); compulsory electronic invoicing was added on 31 March 2015 by Law N. 44 of 24 December 2007, Art. N. 1, para 209-214 implemented by Ministerial Decree N.55 of 3 April 2013, further clarified by Ministerial circular N.1 of 9 March 2015.\nThe modernisation of procedures was also touched by Presidential Decree N. 447 of 20 October 1998 (creation of the One Stop Shop, but only for production activities, and paper based), while interest for a telematic procedure only began with Legislative Decree N. 82 of 7 March 2005, CAD, which is not as relevant in its first version but was later modified by several interventions, particularly Legislative Decree N. 335 of 10 December 2013.\n\nEuropean sources are also essential. The EC, and later the European Union, have undertaken a wide range of actions on e-government: one of the most important was the launch of the IDABC programme (and financing) for Interoperable Delivery of European eGovernment Services to public Administrations, Business and Citizens, via Decision 2004/387/EC of the European Parliament and Council of 21 April 2004. However, the ultimate acknowledgement of the principles of teleadministration, with the telematic One Stop Shop, is contained in the Directive 2006/123/EC of the European Parliament and Council of 12 December 2006, on the Internal market for services, which provides for Member States to set up an electronic One Stop Shop in the wide field of administrative procedures.\n\nThis article is not meant to argue the great effect that teleadministration has on the efficiency of administrative activity, as we assume that the reader is fully aware that, once paper based documents are abandoned, the real-time flow of documents greatly improves time management and responsibility of the single offices/ operators, while direct online access improves transparency. Rather, this paragraph wants to emphasize how teleadministration promotes maximum usage of the “star procedure”, known and researched in Germany as “Sternverfahren”. This procedure, an alternative to the sequential procedure, which has by nature longer head times, in the paper-based world would require making several copies of the administrative file (which can be extremely voluminous) for each office and each administration that needs to express an opinion or issue an authorisation. With the One Stop Shop, the administration initiating the process is charged with this task. Electronic files clearly provide evident benefits for these procedures, since all involved administrations can directly and simultaneously access the file, view the part they need to evaluate and add their opinion or authorisation directly, using a star-shaped scheme.\n\nAs a scientific proposition, teleadministration sketched the system of telematic administrative procedures well ahead of the law, and particularly the electronic One Stop Shop concept. Both concepts are based on the dematerialisation of documents and on telematic administrative work.\n\nThe concept of documents’ dematerialisation, in existence since 1978 as a scientific notion, was first embraced in Italy (Law N. 59 of 15 March 1997, Art. 15, para 2) and later by the E.C. in Directive 1999/93/EC.\n\nOnce the principle that an electronic document can have legal value was accepted, it was possible to deal with its management within a telematic procedure.\nAs mentioned, configuring this procedure within the rules of teleadministration is today accepted in both European and Italian laws. European laws also provide quite a detailed description of the electronic One Stop Shop, with rules that fit nicely within the scientific rules of teleadministration; their main limitation is that they were specifically designed for the free circulation of services within Europe, and hence for the procedures these require. It is the above-mentioned 1996/123/EC Directive, whose Art.6 establishes the One Stop Shop and Art. 8 provides that it should be managed “remotely and electronically”, leaving further details to the Commission. And indeed the Commission, with its Decision of 16 October 2009, provided a number of measures to facilitate the use of electronic procedures through the “One Stop Shop” under Directive 2006/123/EC. These sources are clear and they apply to a wide-ranging sector: the problem is that any sector or procedure that is not related to the supply of services within the Union is not regulated, and Member States are therefore able to carry on with old-fashioned paper-based procedures.\n\nIn light of this limitation, a group of illustrious European Law academics, coordinated by Giovanni Duni, has drafted the most effective text for a Directive providing a universal system of telematic administrative procedure.\n\nItalian sources are based on the Code of Digital Administration, the above-mentioned Law Decree N.82 of 7 March 2005 in its current version, following several modifications, which (if correctly interpreted and implemented) should make it compulsory for all public administrations to use teleadministration, thus making the telematic administrative procedure the default procedural method. Art. 14, the key provision, establishes that the proceeding administration creates an electronic file, to which all involved administrations can and should have access, and feed it with the acts of their competence. Private citizens can also access it under Law 241/90\nThus the electronic file is the technical and organizational specification of the telematic administrative procedure, as it is clear that its creation is an operative stage of the procedure and not simply a new filing system for the archives.\n\nArt. 10 of the CAD appears at first to be at odds with this interpretation, since it establishes that the One Stop Shop for productive activities provides its services electronically but leaves doubts about the possibility that the back office activities could be still paper-based. However, if Art. 10 and Art. 41 are interpreted together, the only possible conclusion is that the former is a clarification of front office activities, but all the administrative activity is based on the general rule of electronic files, and therefore on the teleadministration and the One Stop Shop. \nCompared to European and Italian law, reality is somewhat behind. Eight years after Directive 1996/123/CE, there would be grounds for an infraction procedure against Italy. But since Italy enjoys the company of several other non-compliant Member States, they are all ‘safe’ for the time being.\n\nThough the letter of the CAD may be not be respected, it seems very unlikely that this may determine the invalidity or nullity of the acts for violation of Art. 41(electronic file) or Art. 40 (statutory requirement of digital signature), because in front of a claim of this nature, the administrative judge would apply Artt. 21 septies and 21 octies of Law 241/90. The claimant should demonstrate that the use of the electronic format and electronic file would have led to a different outcome.\n\n1995 Utah Code, paras 46-3-101 to 46-3-504 (Enacted by Law 1995, Ch. 61). US Senate, S. 1594, Digital Signature and Electronic Authentication Law (SEAL) of 1998. — US House of Representatives, H.R. 3472, Digital Signature and Electronic Authentication Law (SEAL) of 1998\n\nThe telematic procedures in the European Union. Introducing a draft Directive, research coordinated by Duni, G., in CNR ITTIG Informatica e diritto, Vol. XXI, 2012, n. 2, pp. 113–129 and in www.teleamministrazione.it.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46969253", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46969253", "title": "The Iron Heel of Oligarchy", "text": "The Iron Heel of Oligarchy\n\nThe Iron Heel of Oligarchy ( Zheleznaya pyata oligarkhii) is a 1999 Russian drama film directed by and starring Aleksandr Bashirov. It tells the story of a man who tries to organise a revolution against the oligarchs in Russia. The film is loosely based on episodes from Jack London's novel \"The Iron Heel\". It received a Tiger Award at the 1999 International Film Festival Rotterdam.\n\n"}
{"id": "1903980", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1903980", "title": "Unintended Consequences (novel)", "text": "Unintended Consequences (novel)\n\nUnintended Consequences is a novel by John Ross, first published in 1996 by Accurate Press. The story chronicles the history of the gun culture, gun rights, and gun control in the United States from the early 1900s through the late 1990s. Although clearly a work of fiction, the story is heavily laced with historical fact, including historical figures who play minor supporting roles. The protagonist is very active in competitive shooting sports, as is the author; so unusually detailed and intricate facts, figures and explanations of firearms-related topics, ornament the narrative and drive the plot.\n\nThe cover has a picture of Lady Justice being assaulted by an ATF agent.\n\nThe book was listed by \"The New York Times\"' Sunday Book Review as one of the most sought after out-of-print books of 2013.\n\nThe story hinges upon the enactment and subsequent unintended consequences of several important pieces of U.S. gun control legislation and regulation: the National Firearms Act of 1934, the Gun Control Act of 1968, the Firearm Owners Protection Act of 1986, the Assault Weapons Importation Ban enacted by Presidential executive order in 1989 and the Federal Assault Weapons Ban of 1994.\n\nIts thesis, as discussed in the \"Author's Note – A Warning and Disclaimer\" in the beginning of the book, is that enough bullying, by what is widely perceived as a hostile occupation government, will inevitably end in revolt if the occupied area is large enough and has a culture that is significantly different from the occupying state, and that this revolt will be undefeatable if the rebels use very low-tech \"leaderless resistance.\"\n\nHenry Bowman is the principal character, although the story begins in 1906, long before Bowman's birth on January 10, 1953. The story is told primarily from his perspective when he is in his early forties. Bowman grows up in the St. Louis, Missouri area, where much of the story takes place. He is a trained geologist, a self-taught expert marksman, a firearms, ammunition, and self-defense authority, and a pilot. Bowman lives on a rural acreage near the St. Louis, Missouri metropolitan area. There is an abandoned stone quarry on his land which Bowman uses for recreational shooting. Bowman, in the novel, enjoys owning performance automobiles and driving at high speed on interstate highways. In one part of the novel, he races his hot-rodded GMC truck against a rival Porsche, with Bowman winning, driving in excess of 140 mph to win. Bowman also has several forged identities that he uses for various purposes in the novel\n\n. Bowman is a proficient skydiver.\n\nWalter \"Blackout\" Bowman is Henry's father. A skilled pilot and U.S. Navy officer, he trained 437 naval aviators during World War II, retiring at the rank of Lieutenant Commander. He represents the studious, responsible and thoughtful side of the younger Bowman. The author has stated that the elder Bowman is based on his own father.\n\nMax Collins is Bowman's uncle. He is portrayed as a larger-than-life character who is an expert marksman, professional gambler and accomplished ladies' man. He served in the airborne troops of D-Day, and killed a German army officer in combat with his sniper rifle. In the novel, at a 1960s Nevada shooting competition, he bets on his nephew Henry's shooting, winning $10,000. He represents the adventurous, spontaneous and aggressive side of Henry Bowman. The author has stated that Collins is based on his own uncle.\n\nIrwin Mann is a survivor of The Holocaust and the Warsaw Ghetto, and a key participant in the Warsaw Ghetto Uprising. His inclusion in the story permits a study of the use of firearms by average citizens to repel an oppressive government and connects Nazi gun control measures to U.S. gun control efforts.\n\nRay Johnson is a New York City attorney, originally from Aspen, Colorado, who moves to Africa in 1963 and becomes a big-game safari guide. His return to the U.S. in 1994 serves to illustrate how much U.S. gun owners' freedoms have been eroded, due to legislation and an executive order enacted during his absence. At the airport, the customs officials attempt to confiscate an English double rifle worth some US$40,000, a Belgian FN FAL semi-automatic rifle, a Smith & Wesson 2\" Chief's Special revolver, and his hat which wears a leopard skin hat band. Ray calls his friend Henry, and Henry calls in a favor with a friend who is a high-ranking agent of Customs. Ray is allowed to keep his firearms and enter the United States.\n\nAllen Kane is a major machine gun dealer who is Henry's lifelong friend. A major shift in the novel's plot occurs when Henry finds corrupt ATF agents framing Allen, himself, and another firearms dealer. Allen aids and accompanies Henry in much of the novel.\n\nCindy Caswell is a victim of childhood abuse and organized crime who becomes important in the freedom struggle as it develops. She is from Rolla, Missouri. She is abducted by mafia thugs during a trip to Chicago, Illinois, who force her to become a sex slave for mafia bosses and leaders. After several years, she escapes and meets Henry Bowman at an Alcoholics Anonymous meeting. She assassinates many pro-gun control and big-government politicians and legislators in the novel. The author has been criticized for creating an \"adolescent fantasy\" with this character. Ten years after writing the novel, Ross met Tammy Chapman, whose early life shares a resemblance to that of the fictional Caswell. Ross and Chapman now live together in St. Louis.\n\nThe novel's protagonist, Henry Bowman, shows an early proficiency with firearms, practicing whenever he can find the time. Encouraged by his father, he gathers an impressive firearms collection and gains extensive experience in piloting small aircraft. During college, Bowman is robbed, beaten, and sodomized by a rural gang. The incident nearly destroys him and causes him to become an alcoholic for a period.\n\nWhile at a gun show in Indianapolis, Indiana with friend Allen Kane, Bowman publicly embarrasses an agent of the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives (ATF), Wilson Blair. One of Blair's men was trying to trick and entrap a fellow firearms dealer. Blair takes the offense personally, and with the support of the ATF's director, begins to plan revenge. Several years later, Blair and subordinate agents of the ATF plan to frame Henry and his friends as terrorists, smugglers, and counterfeiters. They plan to plant \"evidence\" when the men are away on vacation. Unbeknownst to Blair, Bowman delays his departure at the last minute due to a work commitment, and is on a friend's property when the agents arrive. Bowman assumes the agents are burglars and engages in a gun battle with them, killing or capturing all and in the process discovering the truth about the raid.\n\nBowman realizes that his life has been irrevocably changed. He makes Blair record a video taped confession of his illegal actions, then kills Blair and disposes of all forensic evidence of the agents' presence. Afterwards, he hunts down and kills Blair's remaining subordinates. Bowman and his closest friends begin to systematically kill ATF agents around the nation – whom Bowman views as supporting the infringement of citizen's constitutional rights, and abusing government powers – as well as politicians who had supported unconstitutional gun control legislation. Simultaneously Bowman releases the video tape of Blair to CNN, which claims that Blair and his companions have had a change of heart, realize what they are doing is wrong, and are now dedicated to killing other ATF agents. Amidst the national search for Blair and company, Bowman continues to rack up the body count.\n\nEventually, as the ATF and FBI are unable to effectively track down those responsible for the killings, the President of the United States is forced to give an address to the nation relating his intent to repeal the unconstitutional laws, including the National Firearms Act of 1934 and Gun Control Act of 1968.\n\nThe story contains several items of historical fiction (accounts of real events with fictionalized thoughts & dialog) that are not widely known. These advance the book's premise and plot. The following events are featured prominently:\n\n\nThe novel sold over 60,000 copies of over four printings. After having been out of print for several years, a paperback edition was reissued in June, 2013.\n\nThe author's web site states that he is working on a shorter sequel that was originally scheduled for publication in 2006. However, this sequel has not yet been released.\n\nTimothy McVeigh read the novel while awaiting his trial for the Oklahoma City bombing. He loved the book, and noted that if it had come out a few years earlier, he would have given serious consideration to using sniper attacks in a war of attrition against the government instead of bombing a federal building:\n\nJohn Ross has posted a response to Timothy McVeigh's comments on his website:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13107678", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13107678", "title": "Vaccination policy", "text": "Vaccination policy\n\nVaccination policy refers to the health policy a government adopts in relation to vaccination. Vaccinations are voluntary in some countries and mandatory in others, as part of their public health system. Some governments pay all or part of the costs of vaccinations in a national vaccination schedule.\n\nVaccination policies aim to produce immunity to preventable diseases. Besides individual protection from getting ill, some vaccination policies also aim to provide the community as a whole with herd immunity. Herd immunity refers to the idea that the pathogen will have trouble spreading when a significant part of the population has immunity against it. This protects those unable to get the vaccine due to medical conditions, such as immune disorders.\n\nVaccine-preventable diseases remain the most common cause of childhood mortality with an estimated three million deaths each year. Each year, vaccination prevents between two and three million deaths worldwide, across all age groups, from diphtheria, tetanus, pertussis and measles.\n\nWith some vaccines, a goal of vaccination policies is to eradicate the disease – make it disappear from Earth altogether. The World Health Organization coordinated the effort to eradicate smallpox globally through vaccination, the last naturally occurring case of smallpox was in Somalia in 1977. Endemic measles, mumps and rubella have been eliminated through vaccination in Finland. The WHO has targeted polio for eradication by the year 2018.\n\nRational individuals will attempt to minimize the risk of illness, and will seek vaccination for themselves or their children if they perceive a high threat of disease and a low risk to vaccination. However, if a vaccination program successfully reduces the disease threat, it may reduce the perceived risk of disease enough so that an individual's optimal strategy is to encourage everyone but their family to be vaccinated, or (more generally) to refuse vaccination once vaccination rates reach a certain level, even if this level is below that optimal for the community. For example, a 2003 study found that a bioterrorist attack using smallpox would result in conditions where voluntary vaccination would be unlikely to reach the optimum level for the U.S. as a whole, and a 2007 study found that severe influenza epidemics cannot be prevented by voluntary vaccination without offering certain incentives. Governments often allow exemptions to mandatory vaccinations for religious or philosophical reasons, but decreased rates of vaccination may cause loss of herd immunity, substantially increasing risks even to vaccinated individuals. However, mandatory vaccination policies raise ethical issues regarding parental rights and informed consent.\n\nTo eliminate the risk of disease outbreaks, at various times governments and other institutions established policies requiring vaccination. For example, an 1853 law required universal vaccination against smallpox in England and Wales, with fines levied on people who did not comply. In the United States, the Supreme Court ruled in \"Jacobson v. Massachusetts\" (1905) that states have the authority to require vaccination against smallpox during a smallpox epidemic. All U.S states require that children be vaccinated in order to attend school; only three states (Mississippi, West Virginia, and California) do not provide exemptions based on religious or philosophical beliefs. A few other countries also follow this practice. Compulsory vaccination greatly reduces infection rates for associated diseases. Beginning in the nineteenth century, these policies stirred resistance from a variety of groups, collectively called anti-vaccinationists, who objected on ethical, political, medical safety, religious, and other grounds. Common objections included government intervention in personal matters or that proposed vaccinations were not sufficiently safe. Many modern vaccination policies allow exemptions for people with compromised immune systems, allergies to vaccination components, or strongly held objections.\n\nIn 1904 in the city of Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, following an urban renewal program that displaced many poor, a government program of mandatory smallpox vaccination triggered the Vaccine Revolt, several days of rioting with considerable property damage and a number of deaths.\n\nCompulsory vaccination is a difficult policy issue, requiring authorities to balance public health with individual liberty:\n\n\"Vaccination is unique among de facto mandatory requirements in the modern era, requiring individuals to accept the injection of a medicine or medicinal agent into their bodies, and it has provoked a spirited opposition. This opposition began with the first vaccinations, has not ceased, and probably never will. From this realisation arises a difficult issue: how should the mainstream medical authorities approach the anti-vaccination movement? A passive reaction could be construed as endangering the health of society, whereas a heavy-handed approach can threaten the values of individual liberty and freedom of expression that we cherish.\"\n\nInvestigation of different types of vaccination policy finds strong evidence that standing orders and allowing healthcare workers without prescription authority (such as nurses) to administer vaccines in defined circumstances increases vaccination rates, and sufficient evidence that requiring vaccinations before attending child care and school does so. but insufficient evidence to assess effectiveness of requiring vaccinations as a condition for hospital and other healthcare jobs.\n\nVaccines as a positive externality\n\nThe promotion of high levels of vaccination produces the protective effect of herd immunity as well as positive externalities in society. Vaccinations are public goods, they are both non-rivalrous and non-excludable, and given these traits, individuals may avoid the costs of vaccination by \"free-riding\" off the benefits of others being vaccinated. The costs and benefits to individuals and society have been studied and critiqued in stable and changing population designs. Other surveys have indicated that free-riding incentives exist in individual decisions, and in a separate study that looked at parental vaccination choice, the study found that parents were less likely to vaccinate their children if their children's friends had already been vaccinated.\n\nCost-benefit analysis for population-level vaccination programs—United States\n\nSince the first economic analysis of routine childhood immunizations in the United States in 2001 that reported cost savings over the lifetime of children born in 2001, other analyses of the economic costs and potential benefits to individuals and society have since been studied, evaluated, and calculated. In 2014, the American Academy of Pediatrics published a decision analysis that evaluated direct costs (program costs such as vaccine cost, administrative burden, negative vaccine-linked reactions, and transportation time lost to parents to seek health providers for vaccination). The study focused on diphtheria, tetanus, pertussis, Haemophilus influenza type b conjugate, poliovirus, measles/mumps/rubella (MMR), hepatitis B, varicella, 7-valent pneumococcal conjugate, hepatitis A, and rotavirus vaccines, but excluded influenza. Estimated costs and benefits were adjusted to 2009 dollars and projected over time at 3% annual interest rate. Of the theoretical group of 4,261,494 babies beginning in 2009, that had regular immunizations through childhood in accordance with the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices guidelines \"will prevent ∼42 000 early deaths and 20 million cases of disease, with net savings of $13.5 billion in direct costs and $68.8 billion in total societal costs, respectively.\" In the United States, and in other nations, there is an economic incentive and \"global value\" to invest in preventive vaccination programs, especially in children as a means to prevent early infant and childhood deaths.\n\nIn 2006, the World Health Organization and UNICEF created the Global Immunization Vision and Strategy (GIVS). This organization created a ten-year strategy with four main goals:\n\nThe Global Vaccination Action Plan was created by the World Health Organization and endorsed by the World Health Assembly in 2012. The plan which is set from 2011–2020 is intended to \"strengthen routine immunization to meet vaccination coverage targets; accelerate control of vaccine-preventable diseases with polio eradication as the first milestone; introduce new and improved vaccines and spur research and development for the next generation of vaccines and technologies\".\n\nIn an effort to boost vaccination rates in Australia, the Australian government has decided that starting on 1 January 2016, certain benefits (such as the universal 'Family Allowance' welfare payments for parents of children) will no longer be available for conscientious objectors of vaccination; those with medical grounds for not vaccinating will continue to receive such benefits. The policy is supported by a majority of Australian parents as well as the Australian Medical Association (AMA) and Early Childhood Australia. In 2014, about 97 percent of children under 7 years have been vaccinated, though the number of conscientious objectors to vaccination has increased by 24,000 to 39,000 over the past decade.\n\nThe government began the Immunise Australia Program to increase national immunisation rates. They fund a number of different vaccinations for certain groups of people. The intent is to encourage the most at-risk populations to get vaccinated. The government maintains an immunization schedule.\n\nSee also: Health in Australia\n\nChildren get compulsory vaccines under a state-sponsored health programme at hospitals and disease control centres. DPT vaccine has been given to children since the 1970s. Hepatitis B, rabies and influenza vaccines are optional and provided mainly on a commercial basis. Both the Changsheng Bio-Technology Co Ltd and the Wuhan Institute of Biological Products have been fined for selling ineffective vaccines. \n\nSee also: Health in China\n\nIn France, the High Council of Public Health is in charge of proposing vaccine recommendations to the Minister of Health. Each year, immunization recommendations for both the general population and specific groups are published by the Institute of Epidemiology and Surveillance. Since some hospitals are granted additional freedoms, there two key people responsible for vaccine policy within hospitals: the Operational physician (OP), and the Head of the hospital infection and prevention committee (HIPC). Mandatory immunization policies on BCG, diphtheria, tetanus, and poliomyelitis began in the 1950s and policies on Hepatitis B began in 1991. Recommended but not mandatory suggestions on influenza, pertussis, varicella, and measles began in 2000, 2004, 2004, and 2005, respectively. According to the 2013 INPES Peretti-Watel health barometer, between 2005 and 2010, the percentage of French people between 18–75 years old in favor of vaccination dropped from 90% to 60%.\n\nSince 2009, France has recommended meningococcus C vaccination for infants 1–2 years old, with a catch up dosage up to 25 years later. French insurance companies have reimbursed this vaccine since January 2010, at which point coverage levels were 32.3% for children 1–2 years and 21.3% for teenagers 14–16 years old. In 2012, the French government and the Institut de veille sanitaire launched a 5-year national program in order to improve vaccination policy. The program simplified guidelines, facilitated access to vaccination, and invested in vaccine research. In 2014, fueled by rare health-related scandals, mistrust of vaccines became a common topic in the French public debate on health. According to a French radio station, as of 2014, 3 to 5 percent of kids in France were not given the mandatory vaccines. Some families may avoid requirements by finding a doctor willing to forge a vaccination certificate, a solution which numerous French forums confirm. However, the French State considers \"vaccine refusal\" a form of child abuse. In some instances, parental vaccine refusals may result in criminal trials. France's 2010 creation of the Question Prioritaire Constitutionelle (QPC) allows lower courts to refer constitutional questions to the highest court in the relevant hierarchy. Therefore, criminal trials based on vaccine refusals may be referred to the Cour de Cassation, which will then certify whether the case meets certain criteria. In May 2015, France updated its vaccination policies on diphtheria, tetanus, acellular pertussis, polio, Haemophilus influenzae b infections, and hepatitis B for premature infants. As of 2015, while failure to vaccinate is not necessarily illegal, a parent's right to refuse to vaccinate his or her child is technically a constitutional matter. Additionally, children in France cannot enter schools without proof of vaccination against diphtheria, tetanus, and polio. French Health Minister, Marisol Touraine, finds vaccinations \"absolutely fundamental to avoid disease,\" and has pushed to have both trained pharmacists and doctors administer vaccinations. Most recently, the Prime Minister's 2015–2017 roadmap for the \"multi-annual social inclusion and anti-poverty plan\" includes free vaccinations in certain public facilities. Vaccinations within the immunization schedule are given for free at immunization services within the public sector. When given in private medical practices, vaccinations are 65% reimbursed.\n\nSee also: Health in France\n\nIn Germany, the Standing Committee on Vaccination (STIKO) is the federal commission responsible for recommending an immunization schedule. The Robert Koch Institute in Berlin (RKI) compiles data of immunization status upon the entry of children at school, and measures vaccine coverage of Germany at a national level. Founded in 1972, the STIKO is composed of 12–18 volunteers, appointed members by the Federal Ministry for Health for 3-year terms. Members include experts from many scientific disciplines and public health fields and professionals with extensive experience on vaccination. The independent advisory group meets biannually to address issues pertaining to preventable infectious diseases. Although the STIKO makes recommendations, immunization in Germany is voluntary and there are no official government recommendations. German Federal States typically follow the Standing Vaccination Committee's recommendations minimally, although each state can make recommendations for their geographic jurisdiction that extends beyond the recommended list. In addition to the proposed immunization schedule for children and adults, the STIKO recommends vaccinations for occupational groups, police, travelers, and other at risk groups. Vaccinations recommendations that are issued must be in accordance with the Protection Against Infection Act (), which regulates the prevention of infectious diseases in humans. If a vaccination is recommended because of occupational risks, it must adhere to the Occupational Safety and Health Act involving Biological Agents. Criteria for the recommendation include disease burden, efficacy and effectiveness, safety, feasibility of program implementation, cost-effectiveness evaluation, clinical trial results, and equity in access to the vaccine. In the event of vaccination related injuries, federal states are responsible for monetary compensation. Germany's central government does not finance childhood immunizations, so 90% of vaccines are administered in a private physician's office and paid for through insurance. The other 10% of vaccines are provided by the states in public health clinics, schools, or day care centers by local immunization programs. Physician responsibilities concerning immunization include beginning infancy vaccination, administering booster vaccinations, maintaining medical and vaccination history, and giving information and recommendations concerning vaccines.\n\nSee also: Health in Germany\n\nIn the Republic of Ireland, childhood vaccination (up to age 16) requires the consent of the parents. The Department of Health strongly recommend vaccinations.\n\nSee also: Health in the Republic of Ireland\n\nAs aging populations in Italy bring a rising burden of age-related disease, the Italian vaccination system remains complex. The fact that services and decisions are delivered by 21 separate regional authorities creates many variations in Italian vaccine policy. There is a National committee on immunizations that updates the national recommended immunization schedule, with input from the ministry of health representatives, regional health authorities, national institute of health, and other scientific societies. Regions may add more scheduled vaccinations, but cannot exempt citizens from nationally mandated or recommended ones. For instance, a nationwide plan for eliminating measles and rubella began in 2001. Certain vaccinations in Italy are based on findings from the National Centre for Epidemiology, Surveillance and Health Promotion are also used to determine miscellaneous vaccination mandates. \n\nChildhood vaccinations included in national schedules are guaranteed free of charge for all Italian children and foreign children who live in the country. Estimated insurance coverage for the required three doses of HBV-Hib-IPV vaccines is at least 95% when the child is 2 years old. Later, Influenza is the only nationally necessary vaccine for adults, and is administered by general practitioners. To mitigate some public concerns, Italy currently has a national vaccine injury compensation program. Essentially, those who are ill or damaged by mandatory and recommended vaccinations may receive funding from the government as compensation. One evaluation of vaccine coverage in 2010, which covered the 2008 birth cohort, showed a slight decline in immunization insurance coverage rates of diphtheria, hepatitis B, polio, and tetanus after those specific vaccinations had been made mandatory. However, vaccination levels continued to pass the Italian government's goal of 95% outreach. \n\nAiming to integrate immunization strategies across the country and equitize access to disease prevention, the Italian Ministry of Health issued the National Immunization Prevention Plan (Piano Nazionale Prevenzione Vaccinale) in 2012. This plan for 2012–2014 introduced an institutional \"lifecourse\" approach to vaccination to complement the Italian health policy agenda. HPV vaccine coverage increased well, and pneumococcal vaccine and meningococcal C vaccines faced positive public reception. However, both infant vaccine coverage rates and influenza immunization in the elderly have been decreasing. A 2015 government plan in Italy aimed to boost vaccination rates and introduce a series of new vaccines, triggering protests among public health professionals. Partially in response to the statistic that less than 86% of Italian children receive the measles shot, the National Vaccination Plan for 2016–18 (PNPV) increased vaccination requirements. For instance, nationwide varicella shots would be required for newborns. Under this plan, government spending on vaccines would double to €620 million annually, and children could be barred from attending school without proving vaccination. Although these implementations would make Italy a European frontrunner in vaccination, some experts questioned the need for several of the vaccines, and some physicians worried about the potential punishment they may face if they do not comply with the proposed regulations.\n\nThere were 5,000 cases of measles in 2017, up from 870 in 2016, 29% of all those in the European Union. The law compelling children to have 10 vaccinations in order to enrol at state schools came into effect in March 2018 but in August 2018 the Five Star Movement pushed legislation through the Italian Senate abolishing it. It has not yet passed the Chamber of Deputies but parents do not now have to provide schools with a doctor’s note to show their children have been vaccinated.\n\nSee also: Health in Italy\n\nAccording to a 2011 publication in \"CMAJ\": The notion of \"mandatory\" in Latvia differs from that of other nations. Latvia appears unique in that it compels health care providers to obtain the signatures of those who decline vaccination. Individuals have the right to refuse a vaccination, but if they do so, health providers have a duty to explain the health consequences.\n\nVaccines that are not mandatory are not publicly funded, so the cost for those must be borne by parents or employers, she adds. Funded vaccinations include tuberculosis, diphtheria, measles, hepatitis B, human papilloma virus for 12-year-old girls, and tick-borne encephalitis until age 18 in endemic areas and for orphans.\n\nSee also: Health in Latvia\nIn Malaysia, mass vaccination is practised in public schools. The vaccines may be administered by a school nurse or a team of other medical staff from outside the school. All the children in a given school year are vaccinated as a cohort. For example, children may receive the oral polio vaccine in Year One of primary school (about six or seven years of age), the BCG in Year Six, and the MMR in Form Three of secondary school. Therefore, most people have received their core vaccines by the time they finish secondary school.\n\nHealth in Malaysia\nIn Nigeria, the Expanded Programme on Immunization (EPI), was introduced in 1978 to provide free immunization against polio, measles, diphtheria, whooping cough, tuberculosis, and yellow fever to Nigerian children less than 2 years old. This free immunization can be obtained at any primary health centre in the country. The vaccines are usually administered by a government health care worker. They also conduct routine vaccination visits in schools where all the children in a given school are vaccinated.\n\nFacing numerous minor polio epidemics, the Pakistani government has now ruled that the polio vaccination as mandatory and indisputable. In a statement from Pakistani Police Commissioner Riaz Khan Mehsud \"There is no mercy, we have decided to deal with the refusal cases with iron hands. Anyone who refuses [the vaccine] will be sent to jail\".\n\nSee also: Health in Pakistan\nAccording to a 2011 publication in \"CMAJ\": Slovenia has one of the world's most aggressive and comprehensive vaccination programs. Its program is mandatory for nine designated diseases. Within the first three months of life, infants must be vaccinated for tuberculosis, tetanus, polio, pertussis, and Haemophilus influenza type B. Within 18 months, vaccines are required for measles, mumps and rubella, and finally, before a child starts school, the child must be vaccinated for hepatitis B. While a medical exemption request can be submitted to a committee, such an application for reasons of religion or conscience would not be acceptable. Failure to comply results in a fine and compliance rates top 95%, Kraigher says, adding that for nonmandatory vaccines, such as the one for human papilloma virus, coverage is below 50%.\n\nMandatory vaccination against measles was introduced in 1968 and since 1978, all children receive two doses of vaccine with a compliance rate of more than 95%. For TBE, the vaccination rate in 2007 was estimated to be 12.4% of the general population in 2007. For comparison, in neighboring Austria, 87% of the population is vaccinated against TBE.\n\nSee also: Health in Slovenia\nThe South African Vaccination and Immunisation Centre began in 2003 as an alliance between the South African Department of Health, vaccine industry, academic institutions and other stakeholders. SAIVC works with WHO and the South African National Department of Health to educate, do research, provide technical support, and advocate. They work to increase rates of vaccination in order to improve the nation's health.\n\nSee also: Health in South Africa\n\nSpain's 19 autonomous communities, consisting of 17 Regions and 2 cities, follow health policies established by the Inter-Territorial Health Council that was formed by the National and Regional Ministries of Health. This Inter-Territorial Council is composed of representatives from each region and meets to discuss health related issues spanning across Spain. The Institute of Health Carlos III (ISCIIII) is a public research institute that manages biomedical research for the advancement of health sciences and disease preventions. The ISCIII may suggest the introduction of new vaccines into Spain's Recommended Health Schedule and is under direct control of the Ministry of Health. Although the Ministry of Health is responsible for the oversight of health care services, the policy of devolution divides responsibilities among local agencies, including health planning and programing, fiscal duties, and direct management of health services. This decentralization proposes difficulties in collecting information at the national level. The Inter-Territorial Council's Commission on Public Health works to establish health care policies according to recommendations by technical working groups via letters, meetings, and conferences. The Technical Working Group on Vaccines review data on vaccine preventable diseases and proposes recommendations for policies. No additional groups outside the government propose recommendations. Recommendations must be approved by the Commission of Public Health and then by the Inter-Territorial Council, at which point they are incorporated into the National Immunization Schedule.\n\nThe Spanish Association of Pediatrics, in conjunction with the Spanish Medicines Agency, outlines specifications for vaccination schedules and policies and provides a history of vaccination policies implemented in the past, as well as legislature pertaining to the public currently. Spain's Constitution does not mandate vaccination, so it is voluntary unless authorities require compulsory vaccination in the case of epidemics. In 1921 vaccination became mandatory for smallpox, and in 1944 the Bases Health Act mandated compulsory vaccination for diphtheria and smallpox, but was suspended in 1979 after the elimination of the threat of an epidemic. The first systematic immunization schedule for the provinces of Spain was established in 1975 and has continuously been updated by each autonomous community in regard to doses at certain ages and recommendation of additional vaccine not proposed in the schedule. The 2015 schedule proposed the newest change with the inclusion of pneumococcal vaccine for children under 12 months. For 2016, the schedule plans to propose a vaccine against varicella in children at 12–15 months and 3–4 years. Furthermore, the General Health Law of 1986 echoes Article 40.2 from the Constitution guaranteeing the right to the protection of health, and states employers must provide vaccines to workers if they are at risk of exposure. Due to vaccination coverage in each Community, there is little anti-vaccine activity or opposition to the current schedule, and no organized groups against vaccines. The universal public health care provides coverage for all residents, while central and regional support programs extend coverage to immigrant populations. However, no national funds are granted to the Communities for vaccine purchases. Vaccines are financed from taxes, and paid in full by the Community government. Law 21 in Article 2.6 establishes the need for proper clinical documentation and informed consent by the patient, although written informed consent is not mandated in the verbal request of a vaccine for a minor. The autonomous regions collect data, from either electronic registries or written physician charts, to calculate immunization coverage.\n\nSee also: Health in Spain\n\nAccording to the World Health Organization vaccination coverage in Tanzania was more that 90% in 2012. An Electronic Immunisation Register has been established, which permits online access to the medical records of mothers and infants, enabling vaccination teams in remote areas to operate more effectively, especially with nomadic people. It also helps to coordinate stock levels and order new supplies.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, the purchase and distribution of vaccines is managed centrally, and recommended vaccines are provided for free by the NHS. In the UK, no laws require vaccination of schoolchildren.\n\nSee also: Health in the United Kingdom\n\nThe Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices makes scientific recommendations which are generally followed by the federal government, state governments, and private health insurance companies.\n\nAll 50 states in the U.S. mandate immunizations for children in order to enroll in public school, but various exemptions are available depending on the state. All states have exemptions for people who have medical contraindications to vaccines, and all states except for California, West Virginia, and Mississippi allow religious exemptions, while eighteen states allow parents to cite personal, conscientious, philosophical, or other objections. An increasing number of parents are using religious and philosophical exemptions: researchers have cited this increased use of exemptions as contributing to loss of herd immunity within these communities, and hence an increasing number of disease outbreaks.\n\nThe American Academy of Pediatrics (AAP) advises physicians to respect the refusal of parents to vaccinate their child after adequate discussion, unless the child is put at significant risk of harm (e.g., during an epidemic, or after a deep and contaminated puncture wound). Under such circumstances, the AAP states that parental refusal of immunization constitutes a form of medical neglect and should be reported to state child protective services agencies.\n\nSee Vaccination schedule for the vaccination schedule used in the United States.\n\nImmunizations are often compulsory for military enlistment in the U.S.\n\nAll vaccines recommended by the U.S. government for its citizens are required for green card applicants. This requirement stirred controversy when it was applied to the HPV vaccine in July 2008 because of the cost of the vaccine, and because the other thirteen required vaccines prevent diseases which are spread by a respiratory route and are considered highly contagious, while HPV is only spread through sexual contact. In November 2009, this requirement was canceled.\n\nSee also: Health in the United States\nThe United States has a long history of school vaccination requirements. The first school vaccination requirement was enacted in the 1850s in Massachusetts to prevent the spread of smallpox. The school vaccination requirement was put in place after the compulsory school attendance law caused a rapid increase in the number of children in public schools, increasing the risk of smallpox outbreaks. The early movement towards school vaccination laws began at the local level including counties, cities, and boards of education. By 1827, Boston had become the first city to mandate that all children entering public schools show proof of vaccination. In addition, in 1855 the Commonwealth of Massachusetts had established its own statewide vaccination requirements for all students entering school, this influenced other states to implement similar statewide vaccination laws in schools as seen in New York in 1862, Connecticut in 1872, Pennsylvania in 1895, and later the Midwest, South and Western US. By 1963, 20 states had school vaccination laws.\n\nThese school vaccination resulted in political debates throughout the United States. An example of this political controversy occurred in 1893 in Chicago, where less than 10 percent of the children were vaccinated despite the twelve year old state law. Resistance was seen at the local level of the school district as some local school boards and superintendents opposed the state vaccination laws, leading the state board health inspectors to examine vaccination policies in schools. Resistance proceeded during the mid-1900s and in 1977 a nationwide Childhood Immunization Initiative was developed with the goal of increasing vaccination rates among children to 90% by 1979. During the two-year period of observation, the initiative reviewed the immunization records of more than 28 million children and vaccinated children who had not received the recommended vaccines.\n\nIn 1922 the constitutionality of childhood vaccination was examined in the Supreme Court case \"Zucht v. King\". The court decided that a school could deny admission to children who failed to provide a certification of vaccination for the protection of the public health. In 1987, a measles epidemic occurred in Maricopa County, Arizona and another court case, \"Maricopa County Health Department vs. Harmon\", examined the arguments of an individual's right to education over the states need to protect against the spread of disease. The court decided that it is prudent to take action to combat the spread of disease by denying un-vaccinated children a place in school until the risk for the spread of measles had passed. \nSchools in the United States require an updated immunization record for all incoming and returning students. While all states require an immunization record, this does not mean that all students must get vaccinated. Opt-out criteria is determined at a state level. In the United States, opt-outs take one of three forms: medical, in which a vaccine is contraindicated due to a component ingredient allergy or existing medical condition; religious; and personal philosophical opposition. As of 2015, 47 states allow religious exemptions, with some states requiring proof of religious membership. Only Mississippi, West Virginia and California do not permit religious exemptions. 18 states allow personal or philosophical opposition to vaccination.\n\n"}
{"id": "12368324", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12368324", "title": "Victims of the Night of the Long Knives", "text": "Victims of the Night of the Long Knives\n\nVictims of the Night of the Long Knives () – the Nazi purge in which Hitler and the Nazi regime used the Schutzstaffel (SS) to deal with the problem of Ernst Röhm and his Sturmabteilung (SA) brownshirts (the original Nazi paramilitary organization), as well as past opponents of the party – numbered at least 85 people murdered. It took place in Germany between June 30 and July 2, 1934.\n\nAlthough most of those killed in what came to be known as \"The Night of the Long Knives\" were members of the SA, other victims included close associates of Vice Chancellor Franz von Papen, several \"Wehrmacht\" (German Army) generals – one of whom, Kurt von Schleicher, was formerly the Chancellor of Germany – and their associates; Gregor Strasser, Hitler's former competitor for control of the Nazi Party; at least one person killed in a case of mistaken identity; and several innocent victims killed because they \"knew too much.\"\n\nThe total number of victims is heavily disputed between historians; some estimates put the number in the hundreds.\n\nThe precise number of victims is disputed and will probably never be known with certainty. During the Purge itself official radio and newspaper reports only gave the names of 10 people killed: the six SA-leaders executed in Stadelheim Prison on June 30; Kurt von Schleicher, a German general and a former Chancellor of the Weimar Republic, and his wife; Karl Ernst, who was wrongly reported to have been shot in Stadelheim, whereas in fact he was shot in the barracks of Hitler's Personal Guard Unit in Berlin Lichterfelde; and Ernst Röhm.\n\nWhile the German newspapers avoided disclosing the names of further victims of the purge, in the weeks and months to follow, the international press would set out to detail a more comprehensive account of how many people had been killed between June 30 to July 2. They managed to present about 100 names of people allegedly killed, although a number of those eventually turned out to have survived, such as the former SA chief of Berlin Wolf-Heinrich Graf von Helldorf (who was actually one of the organizers of the purge - e.g. he warned Werner von Alvensleben, Schleicher's go-between to Hitler—but not Schleicher—to spend the fateful weekend at his hunting lodge; and was himself only killed after participating in the fateful 20th of July 1944 coup attempt.) and Adolf Morsbach, the head of the cosmopolitan-minded Akademischer Austauschdienst (Academic Exchange Programme), who had instead been sent to a Nazi concentration camp.\n\nImmediately after the events of the purge the Gestapo compiled an official list of those killed at the order of Hitler himself who wished to gain an overall view on the number and identity of those killed in order to prepare the Reichstag speech in which he intended to present his interpretation of the occurrences of June 30 to July 2 to the German public and the world in general, and which he finally delivered on July 13. \nThis \"Gestapo List\" comprised a total of 77 names.\n\nIn his Reichstag speech Hitler sub-divided those into 61 persons who had been shot during \"the action\"; allegedly 13 had died resisting arrest while three committed suicide. In his speech Hitler revealed the names of 11 of those 77 (Ferdinand von Bredow, Georg von Detten, Karl Ernst, Hans Hayn, Edmund Heines, Peter von Heydebreck, Ernst Röhm, Kurt von Schleicher, Gregor Strasser, and Julius Uhl).\n\nHowever, the list of 77 was far from being complete: Hitler admitted that some excesses had taken place and stated that he had handed over the cases of several people who had been killed as part of unauthorized actions by subordinate organs to the authorities, who were supposed to implement a regular prosecution of the perpetrators. Among those cases who were at first subject to regular investigation and prosecution by the locally responsible Attorney Offices were those of the city clerk Kuno Kamphausen who was murdered at the order of an SS officer who bore a grudge against him for refusing to give a construction permission to his brother and the cases of four Jews and two Communists who were killed without permission from Berlin in the course of arbitrary actions by lower SS echelons in the province of Silesia. In September 1934 Heinrich Himmler—eager to shield his SS men from legal prosecution—managed to convince Hitler to change his mind on the latter six people, whose names as a consequence, were subsequently added to the official list whose killing was to be considered rightful and which now encompassed 83 names.\n\nThe list of 77 or 83 names respectively was kept in several copies—which were stored under lock and key—in the Ministry of Justice and the Gestapo Headquarters. After a law entitled \"Gesetz über Maßnahmen der Staatsnotwehr\" (\"Law pertaining to the Measures of Self-Defense of the State\") had been passed by the Reich Cabinet on July 3, which declared: \"Die zur Niederschlagung hoch- und landesverräterischer Angriffe am 30. Juni, 1. und 2. Juli 1934 vollzogenen Maßnahmen sind als Staatsnotwehr rechtens\" (\"The measures taken to clamp down on the treasonous attacks of June 30th, July 1st and 2nd are rightful, due to having been acts of self-defense of the State.\") it was decided that the killing of everybody on that list was to be considered lawful and that therefore the police and Attorney Offices were prohibited from investigating and prosecuting anyone for those killings. The lists thus were used by the Ministry and the Gestapo as a referential tool which could be consulted to decide, whether requests of relatives and friends of those killed to be given information on the circumstances of death of their beloved ones, or requests to prosecute those responsible for their killing would be answered in the affirmative (people killed and not mentioned on the Gestapo list) or in the negative (people whose names were to be found on the list). The same applied to requests of other state authorities (especially police departments and Attorney Offices) who inquired at the Ministry of Justice or the Gestapo headquarters whether they should open and or continue investigation of a specific killing that had taken place on the three days from June 30 to July 2.\n\nThe official list of those killed was first published in 1964 by Heinrich Bennecke (1902-1972) in the appendix of his book \"Die Reichswehr und der \"Röhm-Putsch\"\".\n\nLater research by historians has shown that in addition to those listed by the Gestapo a number of others also had been killed. Heinrich Bennecke complemented the names of the city clerk Kuno Kamphausen from Waldenburg and the music critic Willi Schmid to his reprint of the official Gestapo list, whereupon he concluded that at least 85 people were killed during the purge. Later, Hans Günther Richardi, in his study on the Dachau concentration camp, added the names of four inmates of Dachau (lawyer Julius Adler (1882–1934), worker Erich Gans (1908-1934), and worker Adam Hereth (1897-1934)), claiming they were murdered by the SS during the purge. In 1993 Otto Gritschneder published a book on the post–World War II prosecution of those involved in the killings which lists 90 names of people killed (adding the doctor and Röhm associate Karl Günther Heimsoth to the list).\n\nRichard J. Evans states that at least 85 people were killed and more than 1,000 were arrested. Ian Kershaw also cites the number of deaths at 85. Kershaw notes that \"some estimates...put the total number killed at between 150 and 200.\" William L. Shirer writes in his \"Rise and Fall of the Third Reich\", that \"\"The White Book of the Purge\", published by émigrés in Paris claims 401 deaths, but lists only 116 of them. At the 1957 trial in Munich the figure 'more than 1,000' was used.\" Both of those figures are much higher than the ones most historians of the period rely on, and that Shirer himself was not necessarily citing the figures as accurate, but was simply relaying them in his book. The most recent study on the matter lists by name 89 people who were definitely killed, as well as two other cases of whom it is unclear whether they were murdered during the events or slightly earlier or later.\n\n\nThe list of victims was retrieved from the German Wikipedia unless otherwise stated.\n\nNotes\n\nBibliography\n\n"}
{"id": "12761470", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12761470", "title": "Vision Montreal Crisis, 1997", "text": "Vision Montreal Crisis, 1997\n\nThe Vision Montreal Crisis of 1997 was one of the most severe internal party crises in Montreal politics.\n\nIn January 1997, Mayor Pierre Bourque tried to dismiss two members of Montreal's Executive Committee: Deputy Chairman Sammy Forcillo and Pierre Goyer. Yet, the city charter of 1921 clearly states that appointments to the Executive Committee are irrevocable. Forcillo and Goyer left Vision Montreal (Bourque's party) to sit as independents, but exercised their right to stay on the committee. Therefore, management by consensus became nearly impossible to reach for the remainder of Bourque's term.\n\nThat incident as well as allegations of authoritarian tendencies led thirteen other Vision Montreal councillors to leave the party and sit as independents with their colleagues of the opposition.\n\nBy August 1997, only a minority of the council members (24 out of 51) were members of Vision Montreal and the credibility of the Bourque administration was undermined. Most of the defectors were supporters of Jacques Duchesneau's \"Nouveau Montréal\" party, but others backed Jean Doré's \"Équipe Montréal\", the \"RCM\" or even came back to \"Vision Montreal\" briefly before the next election. The severity of the crisis was such that for a while it appeared to seriously affect Bourque's chances of re-election.\n\nNonetheless, Bourque was re-elected in 1998, as were a substantial majority of his candidates.\n\nThe defectors were:\n\nMembers of the Executive Committee are indicated with bold fonts.\n"}
{"id": "32022641", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32022641", "title": "Znanie (publishing company)", "text": "Znanie (publishing company)\n\nZnanie (, ; ) was a publishing company based in St. Petersburg, Russia founded by Konstantin Pyatnitsky and other members of the Committee for Literacy. It operated from 1898 to 1913.\n\nZnanie initially published books for a mass audience on natural science, history, education, and art. Maxim Gorky joined Znanie in 1900 and became its director in late 1902. Through Znanie, Gorky brought together many of the best known realist writers of the time. Znanie published the collected works of Gorky (9 vols.), Alexander Serafimovich, Alexander Kuprin, Vikenty Veresaev, Stepan Skitalets, Nikolai Teleshov and many others.\n\nZnanie became known as the most progressive of all Russian publishing houses directed toward broad democratic reader-ships. In 1904 the publishing house began issuing the Znanie Collections, which brought together short stories, novels, poetry and essays written by Russian writers, and by foreign writers such as Emile Verhaeren, publishing 40 volumes by 1913. Vladimir Lenin wrote that Gorky was aiming through these collections \"at a concentration of the best forces of Russian literature.\" The circulation of the collections reached 65,000 copies. They included the works of Gorky, Anton Chekhov, Kuprin, Serafimovich, Leonid Andreev, Ivan Bunin, Veresaev, Dmitry Mamin-Sibiryak, Sergey Gusev-Orenburgsky, Evgeny Chirikov and Nikolai Garin-Mikhailovsky, among others.\nThe writers featured in the collections from 1905 to 1907 were united in their protest against tsarism, oppression, national discord, religious prejudice, and bourgeois morality. Gorky and Serafimovich, on one hand, used socialist realism; Andreyev and certain others, however, were subject to the influences of the decadent movement. After the 1905 Russian Revolution this difference became more marked. In 1911 principal editorship of the Znanie collections was transferred to Viktor Mirolyubov.\n\nIn addition to publishing the collected works of young writers and the Znanie Collections, the Znanie Association issued the so-called Penny Library, in which the short works of Znanie writers were published. Gorky also carried out assignments for the Bolsheviks, publishing a series of sociopolitical pamphlets, including the works of Karl Marx, Friedrich Engels, Paul Lafargue and August Bebel. The Penny Library issued over 300 publications, with editions totaling nearly four million copies.\n\nDuring the period of reaction after the 1905 Russian Revolution many participants in Znanie left the publishing house. Gorky, forced to live abroad during this period, severed his ties with the publishing house in 1912.\n\n"}
