{"id": "50238943", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50238943", "title": "André Mouëzy-Éon", "text": "André Mouëzy-Éon\n\nAndré Mouëzy-Éon (9 June 1880 - 23 October 1967) was a French dramatist, author of comedies, librettist, screenwriter and dialoguist.\n\nAndré Mouëzy-Éon begins his career by writing short plays for the Théâtre de Cluny, located in the Latin quarter of Paris. After his conscription and before World War I, he became famous by going into the military vaudeville, a popular genre at the time with plays llke \"Tire au flanc\", \"Le Tampon du capiston\", then \"Les Dégourdis de la 11e\".\n\nAfter the war, he collaborated with Nicolas Nancey on \"L'Héritier du bal Tabarin\" in 1919 and \"Il est cocu, le chef de gare\" in 1925.\n\nDuring the 1920s, he gained interest in operetta and created several extravaganza pieces, operettas and sketch comedies with a famous author by the name of Albert Willemetz.\n\nIn 1924, the operetta \"Les Amants de Venise\" is created at the Opéra-Comique. The piece is performed again in 1928, at the théâtre Marigny under the title \"Venise\".\n\nIn 1950 le théâtre du Châtelet sets up \"Pour Don Carlos\", music by Francis Lopez, libretto by André Mouëzy-Éon.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8100340", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8100340", "title": "Animere language", "text": "Animere language\n\nAnimere (sometimes \"Anyimere\" or \"Kunda\", the latter being a toponym) is a language spoken in Ghana, in the Kecheibe and Kunda villages of the \"Benimbere\" people. It is most closely related to Kebu or Akebu of Togo. Both are Ghana Togo Mountain languages (GTM), classified as members of the Ka-Togo group by Heine (1968). Like most other GTM languages, Animere is a noun-class language.\n\nAnimere is an endangered language which is no longer being passed on to children; the speaker count is approximately 30 (Blench 2006). Already in 1965 Adele, another GTM language, was the dominant language among the younger generation in the Animere area, and only elderly people spoke Animere among themselves, leading Heine (1968) to expect that 'the language is going to be extinct in a few decades'. Knowledge of Twi, a dominant regional language, is also widespread among the Benimbere.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2607", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2607", "title": "Antoine Thomson d'Abbadie", "text": "Antoine Thomson d'Abbadie\n\nAntoine Thomson d'Abbadie d'Arrast (3 January 181019 March 1897) was an Irish-born French explorer, geographer, ethnologist, linguist and astronomer notable for his travels in Ethiopia during the first half of the 19th century. He was the older brother of Arnaud Michel d'Abbadie, with whom he travelled.\n\nd'Arrast was born a British subject, in Dublin, Ireland, from a partially Basque noble family of the French province of Soule. His father, Michel Abbadie, was born in Arrast-Larrebieu and his mother was Irish. His grandfather Jean-Pierre was an abbot and a notary in Soule. The family moved to France in 1818 where the brothers received a careful scientific education. In 1827, Antoine received a bachelier (bachelor) degree in Toulouse. Starting in 1829, he began his education in Paris, where he studied law.\n\nHe married Virginie Vincent de Saint-Bonnet on 21 February 1859, and settled in Hendaye where he purchased 250ha to build a castle, and became the mayor of the city from 1871 to 1875.\n\nAbbadie was a knight of the Legion of Honour, which he received on 27 September 1850, and a member of the French Academy of Sciences. He died in 1897, and bequeathed the Abbadi domain and castle in Hendaye, yielding 40,000 francs a year, to the Academy of Sciences.\n\nIn 1835 the French Academy sent Antoine on a scientific mission to Brazil, the results being published at a later date (1873) under the title of \"Observations relatives à la physique du globe faites au Brésil et en Éthiopie\". In 1837, the two brothers started for Ethiopia, landing at Massawa in February 1838. They journeyed throughout Ethiopia, travelling as far south as the Kingdom of Kaffa, sometimes together and sometimes separately. In addition to his studies in the sciences, he delved into the political fray exerting influence in favour of France and the Catholic missionaries. While in Ethiopia they returned to France in 1848 with notes on the geography, geology, archaeology, and natural history of the region.\n\nAntoine became involved in various controversies relating both to his geographical results and his political intrigues. He was especially attacked by Charles Tilstone Beke, who impugned his veracity, especially with reference to the journey to Kana. But time and the investigations of subsequent explorers have shown that Abbadie was quite trustworthy as to his facts, though wrong in his contention—hotly contested by Beke—that the Blue Nile was the main stream. The topographical results of his explorations were published in Paris between 1860 and 1873 in \"Géodésie d'Éthiopie\", full of the most valuable information and illustrated by ten maps. Of the \"Géographie de l'Éthiopie\" (Paris, 1890) only one volume was published. In \"Un Catalogue raisonné de manuscrits éthiopiens\" (Paris, 1859) is a description of 234 Ethiopian manuscripts collected by Antoine. He also compiled various vocabularies, including a \"Dictionnaire de la langue amariñña\" (Paris, 1881), and prepared an edition of the \"Shepherd of Hermas\", with the Latin version, in 1860. He published numerous papers dealing with the geography of Ethiopia, Ethiopian coins and ancient inscriptions. Under the title of \"Reconnaissances magnétiques\" he published in 1890 an account of the magnetic observations made by him in the course of several journeys to the Red Sea and the Levant. The general account of the travels of the two brothers was published by Arnaud in 1868 under the title of \"Douze ans dans la Haute Ethiopie\".\n\nAntoine was responsible for streamlining techniques towards geodesy, along with inventing a new theodolite for measuring angles.\n\nBasque through his father, Abbadie developed a particular interest about the Basque Language after meeting the Prince Louis Lucien Bonaparte in London. He started his academic work on Basque in 1852.\n\nA speaker of both Souletin and Lapurdian, a resident of Lapurdi, Abbadie considered himself a Basque from Soule. The popularity of the motto Zazpiak Bat is attributed to Abbadie, coined in the framework of the \"Lore Jokoak\" Basque festivals, fostered by himself.\n\nAbbadie gave his castle home the name \"Abbadia\", which is the name still used in Basque. However, in French it is usually referred to as \"Chateau d'Abbadie\" or \"Domaine d'Abbadia\", and locally it is not unusual for it to be called \"le Chateau d'Antoine d'Abbadie\".\n\nThe château was built between 1864 and 1879 on a cliff by the Atlantic Ocean, and was designed by Viollet Le Duc in the Neo Gothic style, and is considered one of the most important examples of French Gothic Revival Architecture. It is divided in three parts : the observatory and library, the chapel, and the living quarters.\n\nNowadays the château still belongs to the Academy of Science to which it was bequeathed in 1895 on condition of its producing a catalogue of half-a-million stars within fifty years' time, with the work to be carried out by members of religious orders.\n\nThe château was classified as a protected historical monument by France in 1984. Most of the château property now belongs to the Coastal Protection Agency, and is managed by the city of Hendaye.\n\nAntoine received the French Legion of Honor on 27 September 1850 with the order of chevalier or knight. He was a member of the Bureau des Longitudes and also the French Academy of Sciences. Both brothers received the grand medal of the Paris Geographical Society in 1850.\n\n"}
{"id": "803", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=803", "title": "Arabic", "text": "Arabic\n\nArabic () ' or () ' or ) is a Central Semitic language that first emerged in Iron Age northwestern Arabia and is now the of the Arab world. It is named after the Arabs, a term initially used to describe peoples living from Mesopotamia in the east to the Anti-Lebanon mountains in the west, in northwestern Arabia, and in the Sinai Peninsula. Arabic is classified as a macrolanguage comprising 30 modern varieties, including its standard form, Modern Standard Arabic, which is derived from Classical Arabic.\n\nAs the modern written language, Modern Standard Arabic is widely taught in schools and universities, and is used to varying degrees in workplaces, government, and the media. The two formal varieties are grouped together as Literary Arabic (\"), which is the official language of 26 states and the liturgical language of Islam. Modern Standard Arabic largely follows the grammatical standards of Classical Arabic, and uses much of the same vocabulary. However, it has discarded some grammatical constructions and vocabulary that no longer have any counterpart in the spoken varieties, and has adopted certain new constructions and vocabulary from the spoken varieties. Much of the new vocabulary is used to denote concepts that have arisen in the post-classical era, especially in modern times.\n\nDuring the Middle Ages, Literary Arabic was a major vehicle of culture in Europe, especially in science, mathematics and philosophy. As a result, many European languages have also borrowed many words from it. Arabic influence, mainly in vocabulary, is seen in European languages, mainly Spanish and to a lesser extent Portuguese, Galician, and Catalan, owing to both the proximity of Christian European and Muslim Arab civilizations and 800 years of Arabic culture and language in the Iberian Peninsula, referred to in Arabic as \". Sicilian has about 500 Arabic words as result of Sicily being progressively conquered by Arabs from North Africa, from the mid-9th to mid-10th centuries. Many of these words relate to agriculture and related activities (Hull and Ruffino). Balkan languages, including Greek and Bulgarian, have also acquired a significant number of Arabic words through contact with Ottoman Turkish.\n\nArabic has influenced many languages around the globe throughout its history. Some of the most influenced languages are Persian, Turkish, Spanish, Urdu, Kashmiri, Kurdish, Bosnian, Kazakh, Bengali, Hindi, Malay, Maldivian, Indonesian, Pashto, Punjabi, Tagalog, Sindhi, and Hausa, and some languages in parts of Africa. Conversely, Arabic has borrowed words from other languages, including Greek and Persian in medieval times, and contemporary European languages such as English and French in modern times.\n\nClassical Arabic is the liturgical language of 1.8 billion Muslims, and Modern Standard Arabic is one of six official languages of the United Nations. All varieties of Arabic combined are spoken by perhaps as many as 422 million speakers (native and non-native) in the Arab world, making it the fifth most spoken language in the world. Arabic is written with the Arabic alphabet, which is an abjad script and is written from right to left, although the spoken varieties are sometimes written in ASCII Latin from left to right with no standardized orthography.\n\nArabic is a Central Semitic language, closely related to the Northwest Semitic languages (Aramaic, Hebrew, Ugaritic, and Phoenician), the Ancient South Arabian languages, and various other Semitic languages of Arabia such as Dadanitic. The Semitic languages changed a great deal between Proto-Semitic and the establishment of the Central Semitic languages, particularly in grammar. Innovations of the Central Semitic languages—all maintained in Arabic—include:\nThere are several features which Classical Arabic, the modern Arabic varieties, as well as the Safaitic and Hismaic inscriptions share which are unattested in any other Central Semitic language variety, including the Dadanitic and Taymanitic languages of the northern Hejaz. These features are evidence of common descent from a hypothetical ancestor, Proto-Arabic. The following features can be reconstructed with confidence for Proto-Arabic:\n\nArabia boasted a wide variety of Semitic languages in antiquity. In the southwest, various Central Semitic languages both belonging to and outside of the Ancient South Arabian family (e.g. Southern Thamudic) were spoken. It is also believed that the ancestors of the Modern South Arabian languages (non-Central Semitic languages) were also spoken in southern Arabia at this time. To the north, in the oases of northern Hejaz, Dadanitic and Taymanitic held some prestige as inscriptional languages. In Najd and parts of western Arabia, a language known to scholars as Thamudic C is attested. In eastern Arabia, inscriptions in a script derived from ASA attest to a language known as Hasaitic. Finally, on the northwestern frontier of Arabia, various languages known to scholars as Thamudic B, Thamudic D, Safaitic, and Hismaic are attested. The last two share important isoglosses with later forms of Arabic, leading scholars to theorize that Safaitic and Hismaic are in fact early forms of Arabic and that they should be considered Old Arabic.\n\nBeginning in the 1st century CE, fragments of Northern Old Arabic are attested in the Nabataean script across northern Arabia. By the 4th century CE, the Nabataean Aramaic writing system had come to express varieties of Arabic other than that of the Nabataeans.\n\nIn late pre-Islamic times, a transdialectal and transcommunal variety of Arabic emerged in the Hejaz which continued living its parallel life after literary Arabic had been institutionally standardized in the 2nd and 3rd century of the Hijra, most strongly in Judeo-Christian texts, keeping alive ancient features eliminated from the \"learned\" tradition (Classical Arabic). This variety and both its classicizing and \"lay\" iterations have been termed Middle Arabic in the past, but they are thought to continue an Old Higazi register. It is clear that the orthography of the Qur'an was not developed for the standardized form of Classical Arabic; rather, it shows the attempt on the part of writers to record an archaic form of Old Higazi.\n\nIn the late 6th century AD, a relatively uniform intertribal \"poetic koine\" distinct from the spoken vernaculars developed based on the Bedouin dialects of Najd, probably in connection with the court of al-Ḥīra. During the first Islamic century, the majority of Arabic poets and Arabic-writing persons spoke Arabic as their mother tongue. Their texts, although mainly preserved in far later manuscripts, contain traces of non-standardized Classical Arabic elements in morphology and syntax. The standardization of Classical Arabic reached completion around the end of the 8th century. The first comprehensive description of the \"ʿarabiyya\" \"Arabic\", Sībawayhi's \"al\"-\"Kitāb\", is based first of all upon a corpus of poetic texts, in addition to Qur'an usage and Bedouin informants whom he considered to be reliable speakers of the \"ʿarabiyya\". By the 8th century, knowledge of Classical Arabic had become an essential prerequisite for rising into the higher classes throughout the Islamic world.\n\nCharles Ferguson's koine theory (Ferguson 1959) claims that the modern Arabic dialects collectively descend from a single military koine that sprang up during the Islamic conquests; this view has been challenged in recent times. Ahmad al-Jallad proposes that there were at least two considerably distinct types of Arabic on the eve of the conquests: Northern and Central (Al-Jallad 2009). The modern dialects emerged from a new contact situation produced following the conquests. Instead of the emergence of a single or multiple koines, the dialects contain several sedimentary layers of borrowed and areal features, which they absorbed at different points in their linguistic histories.\nAccording to Veersteegh and Bickerton, colloquial Arabic dialects arose from pidginized Arabic formed from contact between Arabs and conquered peoples. Pidginization and subsequent creolization among Arabs and arabized peoples could explain relative morphological and phonological simplicity of vernacular Arabic compared to Classical and MSA.\n\n\"Arabic\" usually designates one of three main variants: Classical Arabic, Modern Standard Arabic and \"colloquial\" or \"dialectal\" Arabic. Classical Arabic is the language found in the Quran, used from the period of Pre-Islamic Arabia to that of the Abbasid Caliphate. Theoretically, Classical Arabic is considered normative, according to the syntactic and grammatical norms laid down by classical grammarians (such as Sibawayh) and the vocabulary defined in classical dictionaries (such as the Lisān al-ʻArab). In practice, however, modern authors almost never write in pure Classical Arabic, instead using a literary language with its own grammatical norms and vocabulary, commonly known as Modern Standard Arabic (MSA).\n\nMSA is the variety used in most current, printed Arabic publications, spoken by some of the Arabic media across North Africa and the Middle East, and understood by most educated Arabic speakers. \"Literary Arabic\" and \"Standard Arabic\" ( \") are less strictly defined terms that may refer to Modern Standard Arabic or Classical Arabic.\n\nSome of the differences between Classical Arabic (CA) and Modern Standard Arabic (MSA) are as follows:\n\nMSA uses much Classical vocabulary (e.g., ' 'to go') that is not present in the spoken varieties, but deletes Classical words that sound obsolete in MSA. In addition, MSA has borrowed or coined a large number of terms for concepts that did not exist in Quranic times, and MSA continues to evolve. Some words have been borrowed from other languages—notice that transliteration mainly indicates spelling and not real pronunciation (e.g., ' 'film' or \" 'democracy').\n\nHowever, the current preference is to avoid direct borrowings, preferring to either use loan translations (e.g., ' 'branch', also used for the branch of a company or organization; ' 'wing', is also used for the wing of an airplane, building, air force, etc.), or to coin new words using forms within existing roots ( ' 'apoptosis', using the root \"m/w/t\" 'death' put into the Xth form, or ' 'university', based on ' 'to gather, unite'; ' 'republic', based on ' 'multitude'). An earlier tendency was to redefine an older word although this has fallen into disuse (e.g., ' 'telephone' < 'invisible caller (in Sufism)'; \"\" 'newspaper' < 'palm-leaf stalk').\n\n\"Colloquial\" or \"dialectal\" Arabic refers to the many national or regional varieties which constitute the everyday spoken language and evolved from Classical Arabic. Colloquial Arabic has many regional variants; geographically distant varieties usually differ enough to be mutually unintelligible, and some linguists consider them distinct languages. The varieties are typically unwritten. They are often used in informal spoken media, such as soap operas and talk shows, as well as occasionally in certain forms of written media such as poetry and printed advertising.\n\nThe only variety of modern Arabic to have acquired official language status is Maltese, which is spoken in (predominantly Catholic) Malta and written with the Latin script. It is descended from Classical Arabic through Siculo-Arabic, but is not mutually intelligible with any other variety of Arabic. Most linguists list it as a separate language rather than as a dialect of Arabic.\n\nEven during Muhammad's lifetime, there were dialects of spoken Arabic. Muhammad spoke in the dialect of Mecca, in the western Arabian peninsula, and it was in this dialect that the Quran was written down. However, the dialects of the eastern Arabian peninsula were considered the most prestigious at the time, so the language of the Quran was ultimately converted to follow the eastern phonology. It is this phonology that underlies the modern pronunciation of Classical Arabic. The phonological differences between these two dialects account for some of the complexities of Arabic writing, most notably the writing of the glottal stop or \"hamzah\" (which was preserved in the eastern dialects but lost in western speech) and the use of ' (representing a sound preserved in the western dialects but merged with ' in eastern speech).\n\nThe sociolinguistic situation of Arabic in modern times provides a prime example of the linguistic phenomenon of diglossia, which is the normal use of two separate varieties of the same language, usually in different social situations. In the case of Arabic, educated Arabs of any nationality can be assumed to speak both their school-taught Standard Arabic as well as their native, mutually unintelligible \"dialects\"; these dialects linguistically constitute separate languages which may have dialects of their own. When educated Arabs of different dialects engage in conversation (for example, a Moroccan speaking with a Lebanese), many speakers code-switch back and forth between the dialectal and standard varieties of the language, sometimes even within the same sentence. Arabic speakers often improve their familiarity with other dialects via music or film.\n\nThe issue of whether Arabic is one language or many languages is politically charged, in the same way it is for the varieties of Chinese, Hindi and Urdu, Serbian and Croatian, Scots and English, etc. In contrast to speakers of Hindi and Urdu who claim they cannot understand each other even when they can, speakers of the varieties of Arabic will claim they can all understand each other even when they cannot. The issue of diglossia between spoken and written language is a significant complicating factor: A single written form, significantly different from any of the spoken varieties learned natively, unites a number of sometimes divergent spoken forms. For political reasons, Arabs mostly assert that they all speak a single language, despite significant issues of mutual incomprehensibility among differing spoken versions.\n\nFrom a linguistic standpoint, it is often said that the various spoken varieties of Arabic differ among each other collectively about as much as the Romance languages. This is an apt comparison in a number of ways. The period of divergence from a single spoken form is similar—perhaps 1500 years for Arabic, 2000 years for the Romance languages. Also, while it is comprehensible to people from the Maghreb, a linguistically innovative variety such as Moroccan Arabic is essentially incomprehensible to Arabs from the Mashriq, much as French is incomprehensible to Spanish or Italian speakers but relatively easily learned by them. This suggests that the spoken varieties may linguistically be considered separate languages.\n\nThe influence of Arabic has been most important in Islamic countries, because it is the language of the Islamic sacred book, the Quran. Arabic is also an important source of vocabulary for languages such as Amharic, Baluchi, Bengali, Berber, Bosnian, Chaldean, Chechen, Croatian, Dagestani, English, German, Gujarati, Hausa, Hindi, Kazakh, Kurdish, Kutchi, Kyrgyz, Malay (Malaysian and Indonesian), Pashto, Persian, Punjabi, Rohingya, Romance languages (French, Catalan, Italian, Portuguese, Sicilian, Spanish, etc.) Saraiki, Sindhi, Somali, Sylheti, Swahili, Tagalog, Tigrinya, Turkish, Turkmen, Urdu, Uyghur, Uzbek, Visayan and Wolof, as well as other languages in countries where these languages are spoken. France has recently been emphasizing the learning and usage of Arabic in their classroom(s)/school(s). Arabic is considered to be a popular second-language choice in France.\n\nIn addition, English has many Arabic loanwords, some directly, but most via other Mediterranean languages. Examples of such words include admiral, adobe, alchemy, alcohol, algebra, algorithm, alkaline, almanac, amber, arsenal, assassin, candy, carat, cipher, coffee, cotton, ghoul, hazard, jar, kismet, lemon, loofah, magazine, mattress, sherbet, sofa, sumac, tariff, and zenith. Other languages such as Maltese and Kinubi derive ultimately from Arabic, rather than merely borrowing vocabulary or grammatical rules.\n\nTerms borrowed range from religious terminology (like Berber \"taẓallit\", \"prayer\", from \"salat\" ( \"\")), academic terms (like Uyghur \"mentiq\", \"logic\"), and economic items (like English \"coffee\") to placeholders (like Spanish \"fulano\", \"so-and-so\"), everyday terms (like Hindustani \"lekin\", \"but\", or Spanish \"taza\" and French \"tasse\", meaning \"cup\"), and expressions (like Catalan \"a betzef\", \"galore, in quantity\"). Most Berber varieties (such as Kabyle), along with Swahili, borrow some numbers from Arabic. Most Islamic religious terms are direct borrowings from Arabic, such as (\"salat\"), \"prayer\", and (\"imam\"), \"prayer leader.\"\n\nIn languages not directly in contact with the Arab world, Arabic loanwords are often transferred indirectly via other languages rather than being transferred directly from Arabic. For example, most Arabic loanwords in Hindustani and Turkish entered through Persian though Persian is an Indo-Iranian language. Older Arabic loanwords in Hausa were borrowed from Kanuri.\n\nArabic words also made their way into several West African languages as Islam spread across the Sahara. Variants of Arabic words such as \"kitāb\" (\"book\") have spread to the languages of African groups who had no direct contact with Arab traders.\n\nSince throughout the Islamic world, Arabic occupied a position similar to that of Latin in Europe, many of the Arabic concepts in the fields of science, philosophy, commerce, etc. were coined from Arabic roots by non-native Arabic speakers, notably by Aramaic and Persian translators, and then found their way into other languages. This process of using Arabic roots, especially in Kurdish and Persian, to translate foreign concepts continued through to the 18th and 19th centuries, when swaths of Arab-inhabited lands were under Ottoman rule.\n\nThe most important sources of borrowings into (pre-Islamic) Arabic are from the related (Semitic) languages Aramaic, which used to be the principal, international language of communication throughout the ancient Near and Middle East, Ethiopic, and to a lesser degree Hebrew (mainly religious concepts). In addition, many cultural, religious and political terms have entered Arabic from Iranian languages, notably Middle Persian, Parthian, and (Classical) Persian, and Hellenistic Greek (\"kīmiyāʼ\" has as origin the Greek \"khymia\", meaning in that language the melting of metals; see Roger Dachez, \"Histoire de la Médecine de l'Antiquité au XXe siècle\", Tallandier, 2008, p. 251), \"alembic\" (distiller) from \"ambix\" (cup), \"almanac\" (climate) from \"almenichiakon\" (calendar). (For the origin of the last three borrowed words, see Alfred-Louis de Prémare, \"Foundations of Islam\", Seuil, L'Univers Historique, 2002.) Some Arabic borrowings from Semitic or Persian languages are, as presented in De Prémare's above-cited book:\n\nThere have been many instances of national movements to convert Arabic script into Latin script or to Romanize the language. Currently, the only language derived from Classical Arabic to use Latin script is Maltese.\n\nThe Beirut newspaper \"La Syrie\" pushed for the change from Arabic script to Latin letters in 1922. The major head of this movement was Louis Massignon, a French Orientalist, who brought his concern before the Arabic Language Academy in Damacus in 1928. Massignon's attempt at Romanization failed as the Academy and population viewed the proposal as an attempt from the Western world to take over their country. Sa'id Afghani, a member of the Academy, mentioned that the movement to Romanize the script was a Zionist plan to dominate Lebanon.\n\nAfter the period of colonialism in Egypt, Egyptians were looking for a way to reclaim and re-emphasize Egyptian culture. As a result, some Egyptians pushed for an Egyptianization of the Arabic language in which the formal Arabic and the colloquial Arabic would be combined into one language and the Latin alphabet would be used. There was also the idea of finding a way to use Hieroglyphics instead of the Latin alphabet, but this was seen as too complicated to use. A scholar, Salama Musa agreed with the idea of applying a Latin alphabet to Arabic, as he believed that would allow Egypt to have a closer relationship with the West. He also believed that Latin script was key to the success of Egypt as it would allow for more advances in science and technology. This change in alphabet, he believed, would solve the problems inherent with Arabic, such as a lack of written vowels and difficulties writing foreign words that made it difficult for non-native speakers to learn. Ahmad Lutfi As Sayid and Muhammad Azmi, two Egyptian intellectuals, agreed with Musa and supported the push for Romanization. The idea that Romanization was necessary for modernization and growth in Egypt continued with Abd Al-Aziz Fahmi in 1944. He was the chairman for the Writing and Grammar Committee for the Arabic Language Academy of Cairo. However, this effort failed as the Egyptian people felt a strong cultural tie to the Arabic alphabet. In particular, the older Egyptian generations believed that the Arabic alphabet had strong connections to Arab values and history, due to the long history of the Arabic alphabet (Shrivtiel, 189) in Muslim societies.\n\nThe Quran introduced a new way of writing to the world. People began studying and applying the unique styles they learned from the Quran to not only their own writing, but also their culture. Writers studied the unique structure and format of the Quran in order to identify and apply the figurative devices and their impact on the reader.\n\nThe Quran inspired musicality in poetry through the internal rhythm of the verses. The arrangement of words, how certain sounds create harmony, and the agreement of rhymes create the sense of rhythm within each verse. At times, the chapters of the Quran only have the rhythm in common.\n\nThe repetition in the Quran introduced the true power and impact repetition can have in poetry. The repetition of certain words and phrases made them appear more firm and explicit in the Quran. The Quran uses constant metaphors of blindness and deafness to imply unbelief. Metaphors were not a new concept to poetry, however the strength of extended metaphors was. The explicit imagery in the Quran inspired many poets to include and focus on the feature in their own work. The poet ibn al Mu'tazz wrote a book regarding the figures of speech inspired by his study of the Quran. Poets such as badr Shakir al sayyab expresses his political opinion in his work through imagery inspired by the forms of more harsher imagery used in the Quran.\nThe Quran uses figurative devices in order to express the meaning in the most beautiful form possible. The study of the pauses in the Quran as well as other rhetoric allow it to be approached in a multiple ways.\n\nAlthough the Quran is known for its fluency and harmony, the structure can be best described as chaotic. The suras also known as chapters of the Quran are not placed in chronological order. The only constant in their structure is that the longest are placed first and shorter ones follow. The topics discussed in the chapter often have no relation to each other and only share their sense of rhyme. The Quran introduces to poetry the idea of abandoning order and scattering narratives throughout the text. Harmony is also present in the sound of the Quran. The elongations and accents present in the Quran create a harmonious flow within the writing. Unique sound of the Quran recited, due to the accents, create a deeper level of understanding through a deeper emotional connection.\n\nThe Quran is written in a language that is simple and understandable by people. The simplicity of the writing inspired later poets to write in a more clear and clear-cut style. The words of the Quran, although unchanged, are to this day understandable and frequently used in both formal and informal Arabic. The simplicity of the language makes memorizing and reciting the Quran a slightly easier task.\n\nThe writer al-Khattabi explains how culture is a required element to create a sense of art in work as well as understand it. He believes that fluency and harmony the Quran possess are not the only elements that make it beautiful and create a bond between the reader and the text. \nWhile a lot of poetry was deemed comparable to the Quran in that it is equal to or better than the composition of the Quran, a debate rose that such statements are not possible because humans are incapable of composing work comparable to the Quran.\nBecause the structure of the Quran made it difficult for a clear timeline to be seen, Hadith were the main source of chronological order. The Hadith were passed down from generation to generation and this tradition became a large resource for understanding the context. Poetry after the Quran began possessing this element of tradition by including ambiguity and background information to be required to understand the meaning.\n\nAfter the Quran came down to the people, the tradition of memorizing the verses became present. It is believed that the greater the amount of the Quran memorized, the greater the faith. As technology improved over time, hearing recitations of Quran became more available as well as more tools to help memorize the verses. \nThe tradition of Love Poetry served as a symbolic representation of a Muslim's desire for a closer contact with their Lord.\n\nWhile the influence of the Quran on Arabic poetry is explained and defended by numerous writers, some writers such as Al- Baqillani believe that poetry and the Quran are in no conceivable way related due to the uniqueness of the Quran. Poetry's imperfections prove his points that they cannot be compared with the fluency the Quran holds.\n\nClassical Arabic is the language of poetry and literature (including news); it is also mainly the language of the Quran. Classical Arabic is closely associated with the religion of Islam because the Quran was written in it. Most of the world's Muslims do not speak Classical Arabic as their native language, but many can read the Quranic script and recite the Quran. Among non-Arab Muslims, translations of the Quran are most often accompanied by the original text. At present, Modern Standard Arabic (MSA) is also used in modernized versions of literary forms of the Quran.\n\nSome Muslims present a monogenesis of languages and claim that the Arabic language was the language revealed by God for the benefit of mankind and the original language as a prototype system of symbolic communication, based upon its system of triconsonantal roots, spoken by man from which all other languages were derived, having first been corrupted. Judaism has a similar account with the Tower of Babel.\n\n\"Colloquial Arabic\" is a collective term for the spoken dialects of Arabic used throughout the Arab world, which differ radically from the literary language. The main dialectal division is between the varieties within and outside of the Arabian peninsula, followed by that between sedentary varieties and the much more conservative Bedouin varieties. All of the varieties outside of the Arabian peninsula (which include the large majority of speakers) have a large number of features in common with each other that are not found in Classical Arabic. This has led researchers to postulate the existence of a prestige koine dialect in the one or two centuries immediately following the Arab conquest, whose features eventually spread to all of the newly conquered areas. (These features are present to varying degrees inside the Arabian peninsula. Generally, the Arabian peninsula varieties have much more diversity than the non-peninsula varieties, but have been understudied.)\n\nWithin the non-peninsula varieties, the largest difference is between the non-Egyptian North African dialects (especially Moroccan Arabic) and the others. Moroccan Arabic in particular is hardly comprehensible to Arabic speakers east of Libya (although the converse is not true, in part due to the popularity of Egyptian films and other media).\n\nOne factor in the differentiation of the dialects is influence from the languages previously spoken in the areas, which have typically provided a significant number of new words and have sometimes also influenced pronunciation or word order; however, a much more significant factor for most dialects is, as among Romance languages, retention (or change of meaning) of different classical forms. Thus Iraqi \"aku\", Levantine \"fīh\" and North African \"kayən\" all mean 'there is', and all come from Classical Arabic forms (\"yakūn\", \"fīhi\", \"kā'in\" respectively), but now sound very different.\n\nTranscription is a broad IPA transcription, so minor differences were ignored for easier comparison. Also, the pronunciation of Modern Standard Arabic differs significantly from region to region.\n\nAccording to Charles A. Ferguson, the following are some of the characteristic features of the koine that underlies all of the modern dialects outside the Arabian peninsula. Although many other features are common to most or all of these varieties, Ferguson believes that these features in particular are unlikely to have evolved independently more than once or twice and together suggest the existence of the koine:\n\n\nOf the 29 Proto-Semitic consonants, only one has been lost: , which merged with . But the consonant is still found in many colloquial Arabic dialects. Various other consonants have changed their sound too, but have remained distinct. An original lenited to , and - consistently attested in pre-Islamic Greek transcription of Arabic languages - became palatalized to or by the time of the Quran and , , or after early Muslim conquests and in MSA (see Arabic phonology#Local variations for more detail). An original voiceless alveolar lateral fricative became . Its emphatic counterpart was considered by Arabs to be the most unusual sound in Arabic (Hence the Classical Arabic's appellation ' or \"language of the '\"); for most modern dialects, it has become an emphatic stop with loss of the laterality or with complete loss of any pharyngealization or velarization, . (The classical \"\" pronunciation of pharyngealization still occurs in the Mehri language and the similar sound without velarization, , exists in other Modern South Arabian languages.)\n\nOther changes may also have happened. Classical Arabic pronunciation is not thoroughly recorded and different reconstructions of the sound system of Proto-Semitic propose different phonetic values. One example is the emphatic consonants, which are pharyngealized in modern pronunciations but may have been velarized in the eighth century and glottalized in Proto-Semitic.\n\nReduction of and between vowels occurs in a number of circumstances and is responsible for much of the complexity of third-weak (\"defective\") verbs. Early Akkadian transcriptions of Arabic names shows that this reduction had not yet occurred as of the early part of the 1st millennium BC.\n\nThe Classical Arabic language as recorded was a poetic koine that reflected a consciously archaizing dialect, chosen based on the tribes of the western part of the Arabian Peninsula, who spoke the most conservative variants of Arabic. Even at the time of Muhammed and before, other dialects existed with many more changes, including the loss of most glottal stops, the loss of case endings, the reduction of the diphthongs and into monophthongs , etc. Most of these changes are present in most or all modern varieties of Arabic.\n\nAn interesting feature of the writing system of the Quran (and hence of Classical Arabic) is that it contains certain features of Muhammad's native dialect of Mecca, corrected through diacritics into the forms of standard Classical Arabic. Among these features visible under the corrections are the loss of the glottal stop and a differing development of the reduction of certain final sequences containing : Evidently, final became as in the Classical language, but final became a different sound, possibly (rather than again in the Classical language). This is the apparent source of the \"alif maqṣūrah\" 'restricted alif' where a final is reconstructed: a letter that would normally indicate or some similar high-vowel sound, but is taken in this context to be a logical variant of \"alif\" and represent the sound .\n\nAlthough Classical Arabic was a unitary language and is now used in Quran, its pronunciation varies somewhat from country to country and from region to region within a country. It is influenced by colloquial dialects.\n\nThe \"colloquial\" spoken dialects of Arabic are learned at home and constitute the native languages of Arabic speakers. \"Formal\" Literary Arabic (usually specifically Modern Standard Arabic) is learned at school; although many speakers have a native-like command of the language, it is technically not the native language of any speakers. Both varieties can be both written and spoken, although the colloquial varieties are rarely written down and the formal variety is spoken mostly in formal circumstances, e.g., in radio and TV broadcasts, formal lectures, parliamentary discussions and to some extent between speakers of different colloquial dialects. Even when the literary language is spoken, however, it is normally only spoken in its pure form when reading a prepared text out loud and communication between speakers of different colloquial dialects. When speaking extemporaneously (i.e. making up the language on the spot, as in a normal discussion among people), speakers tend to deviate somewhat from the strict literary language in the direction of the colloquial varieties. In fact, there is a continuous range of \"in-between\" spoken varieties: from nearly pure Modern Standard Arabic (MSA), to a form that still uses MSA grammar and vocabulary but with significant colloquial influence, to a form of the colloquial language that imports a number of words and grammatical constructions in MSA, to a form that is close to pure colloquial but with the \"rough edges\" (the most noticeably \"vulgar\" or non-Classical aspects) smoothed out, to pure colloquial. The particular variant (or \"register\") used depends on the social class and education level of the speakers involved and the level of formality of the speech situation. Often it will vary within a single encounter, e.g., moving from nearly pure MSA to a more mixed language in the process of a radio interview, as the interviewee becomes more comfortable with the interviewer. This type of variation is characteristic of the diglossia that exists throughout the Arabic-speaking world.\nAlthough Modern Standard Arabic (MSA) is a unitary language, its pronunciation varies somewhat from country to country and from region to region within a country. The variation in individual \"accents\" of MSA speakers tends to mirror corresponding variations in the colloquial speech of the speakers in question, but with the distinguishing characteristics moderated somewhat. Note that it is important in descriptions of \"Arabic\" phonology to distinguish between pronunciation of a given colloquial (spoken) dialect and the pronunciation of MSA by these same speakers. Although they are related, they are not the same. For example, the phoneme that derives from Classical Arabic has many different pronunciations in the modern spoken varieties, e.g., including the proposed original . Speakers whose native variety has either or will use the same pronunciation when speaking MSA. Even speakers from Cairo, whose native Egyptian Arabic has , normally use when speaking MSA. The of Persian Gulf speakers is the only variant pronunciation which isn't found in MSA; is used instead, but may use [j] in MSA for comfortable pronunciation. Another reason of different pronunciations is influence of colloquial dialects. The differentiation of pronunciation of colloquial dialects is the influence from other languages previously spoken and some still presently spoken in the regions, such as Coptic in Egypt, Berber, Punic or Phoenician in North Africa, Himyaritic, Modern South Arabian and Old South Arabian in Yemen and Oman, Aramaic and Canaanite languages (including Phoenician) in the Levant and Mesopotamia.\n\nAnother example: Many colloquial varieties are known for a type of vowel harmony in which the presence of an \"emphatic consonant\" triggers backed allophones of nearby vowels (especially of the low vowels , which are backed to in these circumstances and very often fronted to in all other circumstances). In many spoken varieties, the backed or \"emphatic\" vowel allophones spread a fair distance in both directions from the triggering consonant; in some varieties (most notably Egyptian Arabic), the \"emphatic\" allophones spread throughout the entire word, usually including prefixes and suffixes, even at a distance of several syllables from the triggering consonant. Speakers of colloquial varieties with this vowel harmony tend to introduce it into their MSA pronunciation as well, but usually with a lesser degree of spreading than in the colloquial varieties. (For example, speakers of colloquial varieties with extremely long-distance harmony may allow a moderate, but not extreme, amount of spreading of the harmonic allophones in their MSA speech, while speakers of colloquial varieties with moderate-distance harmony may only harmonize immediately adjacent vowels in MSA.)\n\nModern Standard Arabic has six pure vowels (while most modern dialects have eight pure vowels which includes the long vowels ), with short and corresponding long vowels . There are also two diphthongs: and .\n\nThe pronunciation of the vowels differs from speaker to speaker, in a way that tends to reflect the pronunciation of the corresponding colloquial variety. Nonetheless, there are some common trends. Most noticeable is the differing pronunciation of and , which tend towards fronted , or in most situations, but a back in the neighborhood of emphatic consonants. Some accents and dialects, such as those of the Hejaz region, have an open or a central in all situations. The vowel varies towards too. Listen to the final vowel in the recording of \"\" at the beginning of this article, for example. The point is, Arabic has only three short vowel phonemes, so those phonemes can have a very wide range of allophones. The vowels and are often affected somewhat in emphatic neighborhoods as well, with generally more back or centralized allophones, but the differences are less great than for the low vowels. The pronunciation of short and tends towards and , respectively, in many dialects.\n\nThe definition of both \"emphatic\" and \"neighborhood\" vary in ways that reflect (to some extent) corresponding variations in the spoken dialects. Generally, the consonants triggering \"emphatic\" allophones are the pharyngealized consonants ; ; and , if not followed immediately by . Frequently, the fricatives also trigger emphatic allophones; occasionally also the pharyngeal consonants (the former more than the latter). Many dialects have multiple emphatic allophones of each vowel, depending on the particular nearby consonants. In most MSA accents, emphatic coloring of vowels is limited to vowels immediately adjacent to a triggering consonant, although in some it spreads a bit farther: e.g., ' 'time'; ' 'homeland'; \"\" 'downtown' (sometimes or similar).\n\nIn a non-emphatic environment, the vowel in the diphthong tends to be fronted even more than elsewhere, often pronounced or : hence ' 'sword' but ' 'summer'. However, in accents with no emphatic allophones of (e.g., in the Hejaz), the pronunciation or occurs in all situations.\n\nThe phoneme is represented by the Arabic letter ' () and has many standard pronunciations. is characteristic of north Algeria, Iraq, also in most of the Arabian peninsula but with an allophonic in some positions; occurs in most of the Levant and most North Africa; and is used in most of Egypt and some regions in Yemen and Oman. Generally this corresponds with the pronunciation in the colloquial dialects. In some regions in Sudan and Yemen, as well as in some Sudanese and Yemeni dialects, it may be either or , representing the original pronunciation of Classical Arabic. Foreign words containing may be transcribed with , , , , , or , mainly depending on the regional spoken variety of Arabic or the commonly diacriticized Arabic letter. Note also that in northern Egypt, where the Arabic letter ' () is normally pronounced , a separate phoneme , which may be transcribed with , occurs in a small number of mostly non-Arabic loanwords, e.g., 'jacket'.\n\nIn many varieties, () are actually epiglottal (despite what is reported in many earlier works).\n\nThe emphatic consonant was actually pronounced , or possibly —either way, a highly unusual sound. The medieval Arabs actually termed their language \"\" 'the language of the Ḍād' (the name of the letter used for this sound), since they thought the sound was unique to their language. (In fact, it also exists in a few other minority Semitic languages, e.g., Mehri.)\n\nArabic has consonants traditionally termed \"emphatic\" (), which exhibit simultaneous pharyngealization as well as varying degrees of velarization , so they may be written with the \"Velarized or pharyngealized\" diacritic () as: . This simultaneous articulation is described as \"Retracted Tongue Root\" by phonologists. In some transcription systems, emphasis is shown by capitalizing the letter, for example, is written ; in others the letter is underlined or has a dot below it, for example, .\n\nVowels and consonants can be phonologically short or long. Long (geminate) consonants are normally written doubled in Latin transcription (i.e. bb, dd, etc.), reflecting the presence of the Arabic diacritic mark ', which indicates doubled consonants. In actual pronunciation, doubled consonants are held twice as long as short consonants. This consonant lengthening is phonemically contrastive: ' 'he accepted' vs. \"\" 'he kissed'.\n\nArabic has two kinds of syllables: open syllables (CV) and (CVV)—and closed syllables (CVC), (CVVC) and (CVCC). The syllable types with two morae (units of time), i.e. CVC and CVV, are termed \"heavy syllables\", while those with three morae, i.e. CVVC and CVCC, are \"superheavy syllables\". Superheavy syllables in Classical Arabic occur in only two places: at the end of the sentence (due to pausal pronunciation) and in words such as ' 'hot', ' 'stuff, substance', ' 'they disputed with each other', where a long ' occurs before two identical consonants (a former short vowel between the consonants has been lost). (In less formal pronunciations of Modern Standard Arabic, superheavy syllables are common at the end of words or before clitic suffixes such as \"\" 'us, our', due to the deletion of final short vowels.)\n\nIn surface pronunciation, every vowel must be preceded by a consonant (which may include the glottal stop ). There are no cases of hiatus within a word (where two vowels occur next to each other, without an intervening consonant). Some words do have an underlying vowel at the beginning, such as the definite article \"al-\" or words such as ' 'he bought', ' 'meeting'. When actually pronounced, one of three things happens:\n\nWord stress is not phonemically contrastive in Standard Arabic. It bears a strong relationship to vowel length. The basic rules for Modern Standard Arabic are:\n\nExamples:' 'book', ' 'writer', ' 'desk', ' 'desks', ' 'library' (but ' 'library' in short pronunciation), ' (Modern Standard Arabic) 'they wrote' = ' (dialect), ' (Modern Standard Arabic) 'they wrote it' = ' (dialect), ' (Modern Standard Arabic) 'they (dual, fem) wrote', ' (Modern Standard Arabic) 'I wrote' = ' (short form or dialect). Doubled consonants count as two consonants: ' 'magazine', \"\" \"place\".\n\nThese rules may result in differently stressed syllables when final case endings are pronounced, vs. the normal situation where they are not pronounced, as in the above example of ' 'library' in full pronunciation, but ' 'library' in short pronunciation.\n\nThe restriction on final long vowels does not apply to the spoken dialects, where original final long vowels have been shortened and secondary final long vowels have arisen from loss of original final \"-hu/hi\".\n\nSome dialects have different stress rules. In the Cairo (Egyptian Arabic) dialect a heavy syllable may not carry stress more than two syllables from the end of a word, hence ' 'school', ' 'Cairo'. This also affects the way that Modern Standard Arabic is pronounced in Egypt. In the Arabic of Sanaa, stress is often retracted: ' 'two houses', ' 'their table', ' 'desks', ' 'sometimes', \"\" 'their school'. (In this dialect, only syllables with long vowels or diphthongs are considered heavy; in a two-syllable word, the final syllable can be stressed only if the preceding syllable is light; and in longer words, the final syllable cannot be stressed.)\n\nThe final short vowels (e.g., the case endings \"-a -i -u\" and mood endings \"-u -a\") are often not pronounced in this language, despite forming part of the formal paradigm of nouns and verbs. The following levels of pronunciation exist:\n\nThis is the most formal level actually used in speech. All endings are pronounced as written, except at the end of an utterance, where the following changes occur:\n\nThis is a formal level of pronunciation sometimes seen. It is somewhat like pronouncing all words as if they were in pausal position (with influence from the colloquial varieties). The following changes occur:\n\nThis is the pronunciation used by speakers of Modern Standard Arabic in extemporaneous speech, i.e. when producing new sentences rather than simply reading a prepared text. It is similar to formal short pronunciation except that the rules for dropping final vowels apply \"even\" when a clitic suffix is added. Basically, short-vowel case and mood endings are never pronounced and certain other changes occur that echo the corresponding colloquial pronunciations. Specifically:\n\nAs mentioned above, many spoken dialects have a process of \"emphasis spreading\", where the \"emphasis\" (pharyngealization) of emphatic consonants spreads forward and back through adjacent syllables, pharyngealizing all nearby consonants and triggering the back allophone in all nearby low vowels. The extent of emphasis spreading varies. For example, in Moroccan Arabic, it spreads as far as the first full vowel (i.e. sound derived from a long vowel or diphthong) on either side; in many Levantine dialects, it spreads indefinitely, but is blocked by any or ; while in Egyptian Arabic, it usually spreads throughout the entire word, including prefixes and suffixes. In Moroccan Arabic, also have emphatic allophones and , respectively.\n\nUnstressed short vowels, especially , are deleted in many contexts. Many sporadic examples of short vowel change have occurred (especially → and interchange ↔). Most Levantine dialects merge short /i u/ into in most contexts (all except directly before a single final consonant). In Moroccan Arabic, on the other hand, short triggers labialization of nearby consonants (especially velar consonants and uvular consonants), and then short /a i u/ all merge into , which is deleted in many contexts. (The labialization plus is sometimes interpreted as an underlying phoneme .) This essentially causes the wholesale loss of the short-long vowel distinction, with the original long vowels remaining as half-long , phonemically , which are used to represent \"both\" short and long vowels in borrowings from Literary Arabic.\n\nMost spoken dialects have monophthongized original to in most circumstances, including adjacent to emphatic consonants, while keeping them as the original diphthongs in others e.g. . In most of the Moroccan, Algerian and Tunisian (except Sahil and Southeastern) Arabic dialects, they have subsequently merged into original .\n\nIn some dialects, there may be more or fewer phonemes than those listed in the chart above. For example, non-Arabic is used in the Maghrebi dialects as well in the written language mostly for foreign names. Semitic became extremely early on in Arabic before it was written down; a few modern Arabic dialects, such as Iraqi (influenced by Persian and Kurdish) distinguish between and . The Iraqi Arabic also uses sounds , and uses Persian adding letters, e.g.: \"\" – \"a plum\"; \" – \"a truffle\" and so on.\n\nEarly in the expansion of Arabic, the separate emphatic phonemes and coalesced into a single phoneme . Many dialects (such as Egyptian, Levantine, and much of the Maghreb) subsequently lost fricatives, converting into . Most dialects borrow \"learned\" words from the Standard language using the same pronunciation as for inherited words, but some dialects without interdental fricatives (particularly in Egypt and the Levant) render original in borrowed words as .\n\nAnother key distinguishing mark of Arabic dialects is how they render the original velar and uvular plosives , (Proto-Semitic ), and :\n\nPharyngealization of the emphatic consonants tends to weaken in many of the spoken varieties, and to spread from emphatic consonants to nearby sounds. In addition, the \"emphatic\" allophone automatically triggers pharyngealization of adjacent sounds in many dialects. As a result, it may difficult or impossible to determine whether a given coronal consonant is phonemically emphatic or not, especially in dialects with long-distance emphasis spreading. (A notable exception is the sounds vs. in Moroccan Arabic, because the former is pronounced as an affricate but the latter is not.)\n\nAs in other Semitic languages, Arabic has a complex and unusual morphology (i.e. method of constructing words from a basic root). Arabic has a nonconcatenative \"root-and-pattern\" morphology: A root consists of a set of bare consonants (usually three), which are fitted into a discontinuous pattern to form words. For example, the word for 'I wrote' is constructed by combining the root ' 'write' with the pattern ' 'I Xed' to form ' 'I wrote'. Other verbs meaning 'I Xed' will typically have the same pattern but with different consonants, e.g. ' 'I read', ' 'I ate', ' 'I went', although other patterns are possible (e.g. ' 'I drank', ' 'I said', ' 'I spoke', where the subpattern used to signal the past tense may change but the suffix ' is always used).\n\nFrom a single root , numerous words can be formed by applying different patterns:\n\nNouns in Literary Arabic have three grammatical cases (nominative, accusative, and genitive [also used when the noun is governed by a preposition]); three numbers (singular, dual and plural); two genders (masculine and feminine); and three \"states\" (indefinite, definite, and construct). The cases of singular nouns (other than those that end in long ā) are indicated by suffixed short vowels (/-u/ for nominative, /-a/ for accusative, /-i/ for genitive).\n\nThe feminine singular is often marked by /-at/, which is reduced to /-ah/ or /-a/ before a pause. Plural is indicated either through endings (the sound plural) or internal modification (the broken plural). Definite nouns include all proper nouns, all nouns in \"construct state\" and all nouns which are prefixed by the definite article /al-/. Indefinite singular nouns (other than those that end in long ā) add a final /-n/ to the case-marking vowels, giving /-un/, /-an/ or /-in/ (which is also referred to as nunation or tanwīn).\n\nAdjectives in Literary Arabic are marked for case, number, gender and state, as for nouns. However, the plural of all non-human nouns is always combined with a singular feminine adjective, which takes the /-ah/ or /-at/ suffix.\n\nPronouns in Literary Arabic are marked for person, number and gender. There are two varieties, independent pronouns and enclitics. Enclitic pronouns are attached to the end of a verb, noun or preposition and indicate verbal and prepositional objects or possession of nouns. The first-person singular pronoun has a different enclitic form used for verbs (/-ni/) and for nouns or prepositions (/-ī/ after consonants, /-ya/ after vowels).\n\nNouns, verbs, pronouns and adjectives agree with each other in all respects. However, non-human plural nouns are grammatically considered to be feminine singular. Furthermore, a verb in a verb-initial sentence is marked as singular regardless of its semantic number when the subject of the verb is explicitly mentioned as a noun. Numerals between three and ten show \"chiasmic\" agreement, in that grammatically masculine numerals have feminine marking and vice versa.\n\nVerbs in Literary Arabic are marked for person (first, second, or third), gender, and number. They are conjugated in two major paradigms (past and non-past); two voices (active and passive); and six moods (indicative, imperative, subjunctive, jussive, shorter energetic and longer energetic), the fifth and sixth moods, the energetics, exist only in Classical Arabic but not in MSA. There are also two participles (active and passive) and a verbal noun, but no infinitive.\n\nThe past and non-past paradigms are sometimes also termed perfective and imperfective, indicating the fact that they actually represent a combination of tense and aspect. The moods other than the indicative occur only in the non-past, and the future tense is signaled by prefixing ' or ' onto the non-past. The past and non-past differ in the form of the stem (e.g., past ' vs. non-past '), and also use completely different sets of affixes for indicating person, number and gender: In the past, the person, number and gender are fused into a single suffixal morpheme, while in the non-past, a combination of prefixes (primarily encoding person) and suffixes (primarily encoding gender and number) are used. The passive voice uses the same person/number/gender affixes but changes the vowels of the stem.\n\nThe following shows a paradigm of a regular Arabic verb, \"\" 'to write'. Note that in Modern Standard, the energetic mood (in either long or short form, which have the same meaning) is almost never used.\n\nLike other Semitic languages, and unlike most other languages, Arabic makes much more use of nonconcatenative morphology (applying a large number of templates applied roots) to derive words than adding prefixes or suffixes to words.\n\nFor verbs, a given root can occur in many different derived verb stems (of which there are about fifteen), each with one or more characteristic meanings and each with its own templates for the past and non-past stems, active and passive participles, and verbal noun. These are referred to by Western scholars as \"Form I\", \"Form II\", and so on through \"Form XV\" (although Forms XI to XV are rare). These stems encode grammatical functions such as the causative, intensive and reflexive. Stems sharing the same root consonants represent separate verbs, albeit often semantically related, and each is the basis for its own conjugational paradigm. As a result, these derived stems are part of the system of derivational morphology, not part of the inflectional system.\n\nExamples of the different verbs formed from the root ' 'write' (using ' 'red' for Form IX, which is limited to colors and physical defects):\nForm II is sometimes used to create transitive denominative verbs (verbs built from nouns); Form V is the equivalent used for intransitive denominatives.\n\nThe associated participles and verbal nouns of a verb are the primary means of forming new lexical nouns in Arabic. This is similar to the process by which, for example, the English gerund \"meeting\" (similar to a verbal noun) has turned into a noun referring to a particular type of social, often work-related event where people gather together to have a \"discussion\" (another lexicalized verbal noun). Another fairly common means of forming nouns is through one of a limited number of patterns that can be applied directly to roots, such as the \"nouns of location\" in \"ma-\" (e.g. ' 'desk, office' < ' 'write', ' 'kitchen' < ' 'cook').\n\nThe only three genuine suffixes are as follows:\n\nThe spoken dialects have lost the case distinctions and make only limited use of the dual (it occurs only on nouns and its use is no longer required in all circumstances). They have lost the mood distinctions other than imperative, but many have since gained new moods through the use of prefixes (most often /bi-/ for indicative vs. unmarked subjunctive). They have also mostly lost the indefinite \"nunation\" and the internal passive.\n\nThe following is an example of a regular verb paradigm in Egyptian Arabic.\n\nThe Arabic alphabet derives from the Aramaic through Nabatean, to which it bears a loose resemblance like that of Coptic or Cyrillic scripts to Greek script. Traditionally, there were several differences between the Western (North African) and Middle Eastern versions of the alphabet—in particular, the \"faʼ\" had a dot underneath and \"qaf\" a single dot above in the Maghreb, and the order of the letters was slightly different (at least when they were used as numerals).\n\nHowever, the old Maghrebi variant has been abandoned except for calligraphic purposes in the Maghreb itself, and remains in use mainly in the Quranic schools (zaouias) of West Africa. Arabic, like all other Semitic languages (except for the Latin-written Maltese, and the languages with the Ge'ez script), is written from right to left. There are several styles of script, notably naskh, which is used in print and by computers, and ruqʻah, which is commonly used in handwriting.\n\nAfter Khalil ibn Ahmad al Farahidi finally fixed the Arabic script around 786, many styles were developed, both for the writing down of the Quran and other books, and for inscriptions on monuments as decoration.\n\nArabic calligraphy has not fallen out of use as calligraphy has in the Western world, and is still considered by Arabs as a major art form; calligraphers are held in great esteem. Being cursive by nature, unlike the Latin script, Arabic script is used to write down a verse of the Quran, a hadith, or simply a proverb. The composition is often abstract, but sometimes the writing is shaped into an actual form such as that of an animal. One of the current masters of the genre is Hassan Massoudy.\n\nIn modern times the intrinsically calligraphic nature of the written Arabic form is haunted by the thought that a typographic approach to the language, necessary for digitized unification, will not always accurately maintain meanings conveyed through calligraphy.\n\nThere are a number of different standards for the romanization of Arabic, i.e. methods of accurately and efficiently representing Arabic with the Latin script. There are various conflicting motivations involved, which leads to multiple systems. Some are interested in transliteration, i.e. representing the \"spelling\" of Arabic, while others focus on transcription, i.e. representing the \"pronunciation\" of Arabic. (They differ in that, for example, the same letter is used to represent both a consonant, as in \"you\" or \"yet\", and a vowel, as in \"me\" or \"eat\".) Some systems, e.g. for scholarly use, are intended to accurately and unambiguously represent the phonemes of Arabic, generally making the phonetics more explicit than the original word in the Arabic script. These systems are heavily reliant on diacritical marks such as \"š\" for the sound equivalently written \"sh\" in English. Other systems (e.g. the Bahá'í orthography) are intended to help readers who are neither Arabic speakers nor linguists with intuitive pronunciation of Arabic names and phrases. These less \"scientific\" systems tend to avoid diacritics and use digraphs (like \"sh\" and \"kh\"). These are usually simpler to read, but sacrifice the definiteness of the scientific systems, and may lead to ambiguities, e.g. whether to interpret \"sh\" as a single sound, as in \"gash\", or a combination of two sounds, as in \"gashouse\". The ALA-LC romanization solves this problem by separating the two sounds with a prime symbol ( ′ ); e.g., \"as′hal\" 'easier'.\n\nDuring the last few decades and especially since the 1990s, Western-invented text communication technologies have become prevalent in the Arab world, such as personal computers, the World Wide Web, email, bulletin board systems, IRC, instant messaging and mobile phone text messaging. Most of these technologies originally had the ability to communicate using the Latin script only, and some of them still do not have the Arabic script as an optional feature. As a result, Arabic speaking users communicated in these technologies by transliterating the Arabic text using the Latin script, sometimes known as IM Arabic.\n\nTo handle those Arabic letters that cannot be accurately represented using the Latin script, numerals and other characters were appropriated. For example, the numeral \"3\" may be used to represent the Arabic letter . There is no universal name for this type of transliteration, but some have named it Arabic Chat Alphabet. Other systems of transliteration exist, such as using dots or capitalization to represent the \"emphatic\" counterparts of certain consonants. For instance, using capitalization, the letter , may be represented by d. Its emphatic counterpart, , may be written as D.\n\nIn most of present-day North Africa, the Western Arabic numerals (0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9) are used. However, in Egypt and Arabic-speaking countries to the east of it, the Eastern Arabic numerals ( – – – – – – – – – ) are in use. When representing a number in Arabic, the lowest-valued position is placed on the right, so the order of positions is the same as in left-to-right scripts. Sequences of digits such as telephone numbers are read from left to right, but numbers are spoken in the traditional Arabic fashion, with units and tens reversed from the modern English usage. For example, 24 is said \"four and twenty\" just like in the German language (\"vierundzwanzig\") and Classical Hebrew, and 1975 is said \"a thousand and nine-hundred and five and seventy\" or, more eloquently, \"a thousand and nine-hundred five seventy\"\n\nAcademy of the Arabic Language is the name of a number of language-regulation bodies formed in the Arab League. The most active are in Damascus and Cairo. They review language development, monitor new words and approve inclusion of new words into their published standard dictionaries. They also publish old and historical Arabic manuscripts.\nArabic has been taught worldwide in many elementary and secondary schools, especially Muslim schools. Universities around the world have classes that teach Arabic as part of their foreign languages, Middle Eastern studies, and religious studies courses. Arabic language schools exist to assist students to learn Arabic outside the academic world. There are many Arabic language schools in the Arab world and other Muslim countries. Because the Quran is written in Arabic and all Islamic terms are in Arabic, millions of Muslims (both Arab and non-Arab) study the language. Software and books with tapes are also important part of Arabic learning, as many of Arabic learners may live in places where there are no academic or Arabic language school classes available. Radio series of Arabic language classes are also provided from some radio stations. A number of websites on the Internet provide online classes for all levels as a means of distance education; most teach Modern Standard Arabic, but some teach regional varieties from numerous countries.\n\nWith the sole example of Medieval linguist Abu Hayyan al-Gharnati - who, while a scholar of the Arabic language, was not ethnically Arab - scholars of the Arabic language made no efforts at studying comparative linguistics, considering all other languages inferior.\n\nIn modern times, the educated upper classes in the Arab world have taken a nearly opposite view. Yasir Suleiman wrote in 2011 that \"studying and knowing English or French in most of the Middle East and North Africa have become a badge of sophistication and modernity and ... feigning, or asserting, weakness or lack of facility in Arabic is sometimes paraded as a sign of status, class, and perversely, even education through a mélange of code-switching practises.\" Arab-American professor Franck Salamah went as far as to declare Arabic a dead language conveying dead ideas, blaming its stagnation for Arab intellectual stagnation and lamenting that great writers in Arabic are judged by their command of the language and not the merit of the ideas they express with it.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38469862", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38469862", "title": "Bintauna language", "text": "Bintauna language\n\nBintauna is a Philippine language spoken in North Sulawesi (Celebes), Indonesia.\n"}
{"id": "551722", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=551722", "title": "Biosemiotics", "text": "Biosemiotics\n\nBiosemiotics (from the Greek βίος \"bios\", \"life\" and σημειωτικός \"sēmeiōtikos\", \"observant of signs\") is a field of semiotics and biology that studies the prelinguistic meaning-making, or production and interpretation of signs and codes in the biological realm. Biosemiotics attempts to integrate the findings of biology and semiotics and proposes a paradigmatic shift in the scientific view of life, demonstrating that semiosis (sign process, including meaning and interpretation) is one of its immanent and intrinsic features. The term \"biosemiotic\" was first used by Friedrich S. Rothschild in 1962, but Thomas Sebeok and Thure von Uexküll have implemented the term and field. The field, which challenges normative views of biology, is generally divided between theoretical and applied biosemiotics.\n\nBiosemiotics is \"biology interpreted as a sign systems study\", or, to elaborate, a study of \n\nAccording to the basic types of semiosis under study, biosemiotics can be divided into \n\nAccording to the dominant aspect of semiosis under study, the following labels have been used: biopragmatics, biosemantics, and biosyntactics.\n\nApart from Charles Sanders Peirce (1839–1914) and Charles W. Morris (1903–1979), early pioneers of biosemiotics were Jakob von Uexküll (1864–1944), Heini Hediger (1908–1992), Giorgio Prodi (1928–1987), Marcel Florkin (1900–1979) and Friedrich S. Rothschild (1899–1995); the founding fathers of the contemporary interdiscipline were Thomas Sebeok (1920–2001) and Thure von Uexküll (1908–2004).\n\nIn the 1980s a circle of mathematicians active in Theoretical Biology, René Thom (Institut des Hautes Etudes Scientifiques), Yannick Kergosien (Dalhousie University and Institut des Hautes Etudes Scientifiques), and Robert Rosen (Dalhousie University, also a former member of the Buffalo group with Howard H. Pattee), explored the relations between Semiotics and Biology using such headings as \"Nature Semiotics\", \"Semiophysics\", or \"Anticipatory Systems\" and taking a modeling approach.\n\nThe contemporary period (as initiated by Copenhagen-Tartu school) include biologists Jesper Hoffmeyer, Kalevi Kull, Claus Emmeche, Terrence Deacon, semioticians Martin Krampen, Marcel Danesi, philosophers Donald Favareau, John Deely, John Collier, Guenther Witzany and complex systems scientists Howard H. Pattee, Michael Conrad, Luis M. Rocha, Cliff Joslyn and León Croizat.\n\nIn 2001, an annual international conference for biosemiotic research known as the Gatherings in Biosemiotics was inaugurated, and has taken place every year since.\n\nIn 2004, a group of biosemioticians – Marcello Barbieri, Claus Emmeche, Jesper Hoffmeyer, Kalevi Kull, and Anton Markos – decided to establish an international journal of biosemiotics. Under their editorship, the \"Journal of Biosemiotics\" was launched by Nova Science Publishers in 2005 (two issues published), and with the same five editors \"Biosemiotics\" was launched by Springer in 2008. The book series \"Biosemiotics\" (Springer, since 2007) is edited by Jesper Hoffmeyer, Kalevi Kull, and Alexei Sharov.\n\nThe International Society for Biosemiotic Studies was established in 2005 by Donald Favareau and the five editors listed above. A collective programmatic paper on the basic theses of biosemiotics appeared in 2009.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "253636", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=253636", "title": "COBUILD", "text": "COBUILD\n\nCOBUILD, an acronym for Collins Birmingham University International Language Database, is a British research facility set up at the University of Birmingham in 1980 and funded by Collins publishers.\n\nThe facility was initially led by Professor John Sinclair. The most important achievements of the COBUILD project have been the creation and analysis of an electronic corpus of contemporary text, the \"Collins Corpus\", later leading to the development of the Bank of English, and the production of the monolingual learner's dictionary \"Collins COBUILD English Language Dictionary\", again based on the study of the COBUILD corpus and first published in 1987.\n\nA number of other dictionaries and grammars have also been published, all based exclusively on evidence from the Bank of English.\n\n"}
{"id": "8230888", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8230888", "title": "Chilean Sign Language", "text": "Chilean Sign Language\n\nChilean Sign Language, or \"Lengua de Señas Chilena\" (LSCh), is the sign language of Chile's seven deaf institutions. It is used by people all over Chile and is the primary language used by the deaf community, being used for television interpretations. There is variation within the language depending on factors such as geographical location, age, and educational background.\n\nMainly spoken all across Chile\n\n\nIn 2004, it had been estimated that about 292,700 people (1.8%) of the Chilean population had some type of auditory deficiency. About half of the people with auditory deficiency are over the age of 65. This leaves the estimated amount of users who actually use LSCh at only about 21,000 people.\n\nThere have been many movements to get the Chilean government to try to get LSCh (chilean sign language) regulated within the country. Schools and churches are trying to create more programs to try to encourage deaf leadership training and empowering deaf people to make decisions for their own communities.\n\nThere are no government services specifically for sign language and deaf people. Fondo Nacional de la Discapacidad (FONADIS) is the government department responsible for the providing services. There are also no laws to prevent discrimination while applying for jobs, although there is a branch created to look for jobs for deaf people.\n\nThere are about 20 schools spread across Chile geared towards deaf students. There is not one system of doing it with different towns doing it differently. For example, in the town of Santiago, students are only identified as speech only or sign only and learn in different environments. Students with implants are identified as speech only. There are 4 universities developed for deaf students based on standardized test scores. Studies show that out of 17 people, about 10 were taught LSCh through school while the other 7 were either taught by a family member or out of school environments.\n\nLSCh has a couple of standard Spanish-to-LSCh dictionaries, such as the \"Diccionario Bilingüe Lengua de Señas Chilena-Español\". In 2008, 30 representatives from all across Chile came together to create a standard dictionary.\n\nThe manual alphabet of LSCh has 27 letters, and, as in many sign languages, is used to spell names and words that do not have standard signs. Fingerspelling is defined as a visual form that reflects the graphemes that make up words, providing a means by which to gain access to the segmental information of words. It has been integrated into the deaf community for a variety reasons which include \"when a concept lacks a specific sign, for proper nouns, for loan signs, or when signs are ambiguous.\"\n"}
{"id": "4549298", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4549298", "title": "Common technical regulation", "text": "Common technical regulation\n\nCommon Technical Regulation (CTR). In telecommunications, CTR refers to a rule governing the connection of terminal equipment to networks. CTRs are drawn up, under the provisions of the EU directive 98/13/EC by the Telecommunications research and action center (TRAC) and European Telecommunications Standards Institute (ETSI), at the request of ACTE, which is chaired by the European Commission. These rules apply to all EU member states.\n\n"}
{"id": "33183258", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33183258", "title": "Dair language", "text": "Dair language\n\nDair (also Dabab, Daier, Thaminyi) is a moribund Hill Nubian language spoken in the northern Nuba Mountains in the south of Sudan. It was spoken by around 1,000 people in 1978 in the Jibaal as-Sitta hills, between Dilling and Delami.\n"}
{"id": "33183272", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33183272", "title": "Dilling language", "text": "Dilling language\n\nDilling (also Delen, Warkimbe; autonym: \"Warki\") is a Hill Nubian language spoken in the northwestern Nuba Mountains in the south of Sudan. It is spoken by around 11,000 people in the town of Dilling and surrounding hills, including Kudur. \"Ethnologue\" reports that Dilling is moribund, with only older adults speaking the language and not using it with their children. All speakers also use Sudanese Arabic. The Dilling call themselves \"Warki\", while the Dilling speakers of Kudur call themselves \"Kwashe\".\n\nDilling has one dialect – Debri, which is spoken on the mountain Gebel Debri, south of Ghulfan.\n"}
{"id": "197015", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=197015", "title": "Drug cartel", "text": "Drug cartel\n\nA drug cartel is any criminal organization with the intention of supplying drug trafficking operations. They range from loosely managed agreements among various drug traffickers to formalized commercial enterprises. The term was applied when the largest trafficking organizations reached an agreement to coordinate the production and distribution of cocaine. Since that agreement was broken up, drug cartels are no longer actually cartels, but the term stuck and it is now popularly used to refer to any criminal narcotics related organization.\n\nThe basic structure of a drug cartel is as follows:\n\n\nThere are other operating groups within the drug cartels. For example, the drug producers and suppliers, although not considered in the basic structure, are critical operators of any drug cartel, along with the financiers and money launderers. In addition, the arms suppliers operate in a completely different circle, and are technically not considered part of the cartel's logistics.\n\n\n\nThe United States of America is the world's largest consumer of cocaine and other illegal drugs. This is a list of American criminal organizations involved in illegal drug traffic, drug trade and other related crimes in the United States:\n\n\nItalian immigrants to the United States in the early 19th century formed various small-time gangs which gradually evolved into sophisticated crime syndicates which dominated organized crime in America for several decades. Although government crackdowns and a less-tightly knit Italian-American community have largely reduced their power, they remain an active force in the underworld.\n\n\n\n\n\"Certain members of the Black Panther Party, particularly the Oakland chapter, also engaged in criminal activities such as drug dealing and extortion.\"\n\n\nMexican cartels (also known in Mexico as: La Mafia (the mafia or the mob), La Maña (the skill / the bad manners), Narcotraficantes (Narco-Traffickers), or simply as Narcos) usually refers to several, rival, criminal organizations that are combated by the Mexican government in the Mexican War on Drugs (List sorted by branches and heritage):\n\n\n\n\n\nUntil 2011 Colombia remained the world's largest cocaine producer, however with a strong anti-narcotic strategy in 2012 the country achieved a great decrease in cocaine production and fell to the third position, behind Peru and Bolivia. Cocaine production in Colombia reached an all-time high in 2017.\n\nThe current main actors in the drug trade are:\n\nHistorical actors in the drug trade were:\n\n\nHistorically Venezuela has been a path to the United States for illegal drugs originating in Colombia, through Central America and Mexico and Caribbean countries such as Haiti, the Dominican Republic, and Puerto Rico.\n\nAccording to the United Nations, there has been an increase of cocaine trafficking through Venezuela since 2002. In 2005 Venezuela severed ties with the United States Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA), accusing its representatives of spying. Following the departure of the DEA from Venezuela and the expansion of DEA's partnership with Colombia in 2005, Venezuela became more attractive to drug traffickers. Between 2008 and 2012, Venezuela's cocaine seizure ranking among other countries declined, going from being ranked fourth in the world for cocaine seizures in 2008 to sixth in the world in 2012.\nThe cartel groups involved include:\n\n\nPasquale, Paolo and Gaspare Cuntrera were expelled from Venezuela in 1992, \"almost secretly smuggled out of the country, as if it concerned one of their own drug transports. It was \nimperative they could not contact people on the outside who could have used their political connections to stop the expulsion.\" Their expulsion was ordered by a commission of the Venezuelan Senate headed by Senator Cristobal Fernandez Dalo and his money laundering investigator, Thor Halvorssen Hellum. They were arrested in September 1992 at Fiumicino airport (Rome), and in 1996 were sentenced to 13–20 years.\n\n\nIn May 2015, \"The Wall Street Journal\" reported from United States officials that drug trafficking in Venezuela increased significantly with Colombian drug traffickers moving from Colombia to Venezuela due to pressure from law enforcement. One United States Department of Justice official described the higher ranks of the Venezuelan government and military as \"a criminal organization\", with high ranking Venezuelan officials, such as National Assembly President Diosdado Cabello, being accused of drug trafficking. Those involved with investigations stated that Venezuelan government defectors and former traffickers had given information to investigators and that details of those involved in government drug trafficking were increasing.\n\n\n\n\n\n\"See also Kenji Doihara's criminal activities\"\n\nThe yakuza of Japan are similar to the Italian mafias in that they originated centuries ago and follow a rigid set of traditions, but have several aspects that make them unique, such as their full-body tattoos and their fairly open place in Japanese society. Many yakuza groups are umbrella organizations, smaller gangs reporting to a larger crime syndicate.\n\n\n\nThe Triads is a popular name for a number of Chinese criminal secret societies, which have existed in various forms over the centuries (see for example Tiandihui). However, not all Chinese gangs fall into line with these traditional groups, as many non-traditional criminal organizations have formed, both in China and the Chinese diaspora.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nAlthough organized crime existed in the Soviet era, the gangs really gained in power and international reach during the transition to capitalism. The term Russian Mafia, 'mafiya' or mob is a blanket (and somewhat inaccurate) term for the various organized crime groups that emerged in this period from the 15 former republics of the USSR and unlike their Italian counterparts does not mean members are necessarily of Russian ethnicity or uphold any ancient criminal traditions, although this is the case for some members.\n\n\n\"See also Caucasus Emirate\"\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nBalkan organized crime gained prominence in the chaos following the communist era, notably the transition to capitalism and the wars in former Yugoslavia.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19772225", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19772225", "title": "Eldrid Lunden", "text": "Eldrid Lunden\n\nEldrid Lunden (born 5 October 1940) is a Norwegian poet, and Norway's first professor in creative writing, at Telemark University College. She was awarded the Dobloug Prize in 1989, and the Brage Prize honorary award in 2000. \n\nLunden belonged to the circle surrounding the modernist literary magazine \"Profil\".\n\nShe was born in Naustdal and took her cand.philol. degree at the University of Oslo. She is a sister of Kåre Lunden.\n\n"}
{"id": "723612", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=723612", "title": "Eunoia", "text": "Eunoia\n\nIn rhetoric, eunoia () is the goodwill a speaker cultivates between themself and their audience, a condition of receptivity. In Book VIII of the \"Nicomachean Ethics\", Aristotle uses the term to refer to the kind and benevolent feelings of goodwill a spouse has which form the basis for the ethical foundation of human life. Cicero translates with the Latin word .\n\nIt is also a rarely-used medical term referring to a state of normal mental health. \"Eunoia\" is the shortest English word containing all five main vowel graphemes.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "405425", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=405425", "title": "Francysk Skaryna", "text": "Francysk Skaryna\n\nFrancysk Skaryna or Francisk Skorina ( ; , ; – before 29 January 1552) was a Belarusian humanist, physician, translator and one of the first book printers in Eastern Europe, laying the groundwork for the development of the Belarusian language.\n\nSkaryna was born into the family of a wealthy merchant in Polatsk, then a major trade and manufacturing center of the Grand Duchy of Lithuania. His older brother, Ivan, was also a merchant. The brothers had a property, possibly ancestral, in Polatsk.\n\nThe exact date of Skaryna's birth is unknown. The year 1490 is often proposed based on the assumption that he was 14 when he came to study in Kraków in 1504. The date is an upper boundary; while new students younger than 14 were rare, older ones were not unusual, and Skaryna could have started his studies at the age of 18 or even older. N. Shchakacihin suggested that the overlapping sun and moon on Skaryna's personal emblem indicates he was born around the time of the 1486 solar eclipse, which was observed in Polatsk.\n\nIt is conjectured that he received his primary education in Polatsk and possibly partly in Vilnius. In 1504, Skaryna is recorded as a student of Jagiellonian University. In 1506, he graduated with a Bachelor of Arts degree. In 1512, after passing all required tests, he received a doctorate in medicine at the University of Padua in Italy. The records suggest that he requested to take his examination in Padua but had not studied in the city. Earlier, he obtained an \"artium doctor\" degree, but the exact date and place are unknown.\n\nSkaryna arrived in Prague by 1517. According to one hypothesis, he had been a student of Charles University in Prague, but there is no documentary evidence. In the same year, he rented the printing house from merchant Severin in Prague and started publishing a new translation of the Bible with his own prefaces.\n\nOn 6 August 1517, his first edition was released in the Old Belarusian (Old Ruthenian): “The Psalter”. “The Psalter” nearly comprises all, what was in other biblical books of Holy Scripture. “It contains everything people needed for the welfare of human life on earth.” Then he released a new book every two months (10 September, 6 October, 5 December, 2 January 1518, 9 January, 19 January). Then, on the 10th of August, he published four books at the same time. The culmination of his life's work was printing a translation of the Bible in twenty-three books during 1517 to 1519.\n\nIn 1520, Skaryna became involved in combating an epidemic of a deadly disease in Prague. The epidemic subsided later that year but civil unrest broke out in the autumn in Bohemia. Skaryna left the country and moved to Vilnius, the capital of the Grand Duchy of Lithuania.\n\nIn 1522, Skaryna opened the first printing house in Vilnius. Initially he published “The Little Travel Book”. Then in 1525 “Apostol” was published. \"Apostol\" was released in the same order as it is used in Orthodox worship now.\n\nIn the late 1520s or early 1530s, he visited Moscow. He wished to distribute his books in Moscow but was unsuccessful.\n\nSkaryna married Margarita, the widow of a Vilnius city councilor. In 1529, following his brother's death, he went to Poznań and obtained a share of Ivan's property. In 1530, he moved with his wife to Königsberg but they soon returned to Vilnius. The 1530 fire in Vilnius destroyed three-quarters of the city, probably including Skaryna's publishing house.\n\nIn 1532, he worked as a doctor and secretary of John, Bishop in Vilnius. After two years creditors of his brother Ivan considered Skaryna as the main brother’s heir and put him into Pazan jail. He was there for several months. Roman Skaryna, Ivan's son and Francysk’s nephew, actively helped his uncle in this situation. Roman had a meeting with the king. When Skaryna was released he sent a complaint letter with a counterclaim against the creditors to the King Sigismund I. Later in the response to the complaint letter, he was awarded two royal privilege certificates (from 21 November and 25 November 1532). Those certificates exempted him from the jurisdiction of all authorities except the King.\n\nThe last information about Skaryna is mentioned only in the archives of 1534. He moved from Vilnius to Prague. Probably he served in the royal garden in Prague until his death. According to some theories, Skaryna taught as a professor at the Charles University in Prague. It is possible however it is not a fact. Presumably he died in 1551 or 1552.\n\nIn 1552, his son Simeon Rus Skaryna got a royal certificate according to which he, as the sole heir, was given all the property of his father. The property included manuscripts, letters and books.\n\nIt is not known for sure whether Skaryna was Catholic or Orthodox. His name is Catholic, but it is often suggested that he changed it before entering the university. A single copy of a document in which he is called \"Georgius Franciscus\" instead of just \"Franciscus\" gave birth to a theory that \"Georgius\" was his original name; today, however, it is mostly accepted to be a scribe's error (the presumed correct reading being \"egregius Franciscus\", \"venerable Francysk\"). In any case the once popular theory that he changed his name from \"Georgius\" to \"Franciscus\" to be able to enter the university is without ground: the name \"Georgius\" was equally popular among the Catholic and the Orthodox in the region, and in fact in Skaryna's year there were more students named \"Georgius\" than \"Franciscus\" in Kraków.\n\nIn 1552, after Skaryna's death (and long after his final departure from the country) king Sigismund August mentioned in a letter that a man from his country printed a translation of the Bible and tried to sell his edition in Moscow, the books were burned there because they were produced \"by a subject of the Roman Church\". The books mentioned in the letter are most probably Skaryna's.\n\nSkaryna devoted his life to the publication of the biblical texts. He sought to make the Bible more available to the common people and write it in an easy language. Skaryna also composed prefaces to his editions, in which he emphasized that the purpose of his publishing activities is to help ordinary people \"become acquainted with wisdom and science\". He contributed to the development of the Belarusian literary language. This Bible became the second printed Bible in the Slavic world, following the publication of a Czech edition.\n\nIn 1517 Skaryna started his publishing career in Prague. He printed his Psalter, and then twenty-two books of the Old Testament under the common name \"Biblia Ruska.\" His books were not very characteristic for the West European printed Bibles of that time. The reason is that all of them are published in the format of a fourth part of a leaf [quarto?]. Texts of the Bible are printed in the Church Slavonic language with a large amount of Ruthenian words. More than that Belarusian linguists can identify the influence of the Polish and Czech languages.\n\nSkaryna's Bible breaks the existing rules of that time. It contains text from the publisher, his comments, forewords and afterwords. In addition it contains prints with his image. It is the first such case and the last in the history of the publication of Bibles in Eastern Europe.\n\nAll Skaryna’s editions are very rare, especially those published in Vilnius. Copies are stored in libraries in Minsk, Moscow, St. Petersburg, Kiev, Vilnius, Lviv, London, Prague, Copenhagen, and Kraków.\n\nSkaryna was one of the first to publish in the Cyrillic script, but not the first, as the \"Oktoikh\" was published by Schweipolt Fiol in 1491. While it was an Eastern Slavic language, it is difficult to determine precisely what language he used as there was no conventional Belarusian language as we know it today. Some researchers maintain that Skaryna's books were in Church Slavonic heavily saturated with Ruthenian. Nevertheless, there is no doubt that Skaryna laid the foundations of the Belarusian literary language.\n\nSome Belarusian scholars see Skaryna as a Renaissance man, on par with Copernicus and Erasmus, whose work was a part of European Reformation in the Slavic lands.\n\nAfter the dissolution of the Soviet Union, Minsk, the capital of Belarus, had Skaryna Avenue (\"praspiekt Franciška Skaryny\"). However, in 2005, under the rule of Alexander Lukashenko, it was renamed into Independence Avenue (\"praspekt Nezalezhnastsi\"). The Old Barysau Path (\"Starabarysauski trakt\") was renamed into Skaryna Street (\"vulica Skaryny\").\n\nTwo awards presented by Belarus were named in honor of Skaryna: the Medal of Francysk Skaryna and Order of Francysk Skaryna.\n\nSeveral cultural organizations are named after Skaryna, particularly the Frantsishak Skaryna Belarusian Language Society and the Francis Skaryna Belarusian Library and Museum, London.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1674106", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1674106", "title": "Gilbert Harman", "text": "Gilbert Harman\n\nGilbert Harman (born 1938) is an American philosopher, who taught at Princeton University from 1963 until his retirement in 2017. He has published widely in philosophy of language, cognitive science, philosophy of mind, ethics, moral psychology, epistemology, statistical learning theory, and metaphysics. He and George Miller co-directed the Princeton University Cognitive Science Laboratory. Harman has taught or co-taught courses in Electrical Engineering, Computer Science, Psychology, Philosophy, and Linguistics.\n\nHarman has a BA from Swarthmore College and a Ph.D. from Harvard University, where he was supervised by Willard Van Orman Quine. He taught at Princeton from 1963 until his retirement in 2017 as the James S. McDonnell Distinguished University Professor in Philosophy. He has been named a Fellow of the Cognitive Science Society and a Fellow of the Association for Psychological Science. He is also a Fellow of the American Academy of Arts & Sciences. He received the Jean Nicod Prize in Paris in 2005. In 2009 he received Princeton University's Behrman award for distinguished achievement in the humanities. His acceptance speech was titled \"We need a linguistics department.\"\n\nSome of his well-known PhD students include Graham Oppy, Stephen Stich, Joshua Greene, Joshua Knobe, David Wong, Richard Joyce, James Dreier, and Nicholas Sturgeon.\n\nHis daughter Elizabeth Harman is also a philosopher and a member of the philosophy department and the Center for Human Values at Princeton University.\n\nHarman's 1965 account of the role of \"inference to the best explanation\"—inferring the existence of that which we need for the best explanation of observable phenomena—has been very influential. In later work, he argued that all inference or reasoning should be conceived as rational \"change in view,\" balancing conservatism against coherence, where simplicity and explanatory considerations are relevant to positive coherence and where avoiding inconsistency is relevant to negative coherence. He has expressed doubts about appeals to a priori knowledge and has argued that logic and decision theory are theories of implication and consistency and should not be interpreted as theories that can be followed: they are not theories of inference or reasoning.\n\nIn \"Thought\" and \"Change in View\" Harman argued that intuitions about knowledge are useful in thinking about inference. More recently, he and Brett Sherman have suggested that knowledge can rest on assumptions that are not themselves known. He and Sanjeev Kulkarni have suggested that elementary statistical learning theory offers a kind of response to the philosophical problem of induction.\n\nHarman has also argued that perceptual experience has \"intentional content\" and that it is important not to confuse qualities of the intentional object of experience with qualities of the experience. Perceivers are only aware of qualities that are presented to them in experience, as opposed to properties of experience that represent what we experience as a kind of mental paint.\n\nHe has also proposed that perceptual and other psychological states are self-reflective so that the content of a perceptual experience might be: this very experience is the result of perceiving a tree with such and such features (except that the experience is not in language). The content of an intention might be: this very intention will lead me to go home by six o'clock.\n\nIn \"The Nature of Morality,\" Harman, relying on inference to the best explanation, argued that there are no objective moral facts because we do not need such facts to explain our moral judgments. He has argued that there is not a single true morality. In that respect, moral relativism is true. (This sort of moral relativism is not a theory about what ordinary people mean by their moral judgments.)\n\nHarman has rejected attempts to base moral theory on conceptions of human flourishing and character traits and has expressed skepticism about the need for a good person to be susceptible to moral guilt or shame.\n\nMonographs:\n\nEdited:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28727108", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28727108", "title": "Gustav Höcker", "text": "Gustav Höcker\n\nGustav Höcker (28 September 1832 - 11 October 1911) was a German author and translator of popular historical novels.\n\nGustav Höcker was born on 28 September 1832 in a suburb of Eilenburg. His father was a colorist in the textile industry, and his younger brother was Oskar Höcker, who also became a writer. He spent his childhood in Eilenburg, an early industrial center, and received his secondary education in Chemnitz. Until the age of 26 he was, against his will, a merchant (in 1862 he published \"Kaufmännische Carrieren: Wahrheit und Dichtung aus dem Geschäftsleben\", inspired by his career in trade), an occupation he left to become a professional writer.\n\nHöcker made a name for himself as a writer of narratives, many of which recount the events of the nineteenth century. He published studies and biographies of drama authors and politicians, and of musicians such as Ludwig van Beethoven, Joseph Haydn, and Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart. A book with \"simply written life-stories\" on Haydn, \"Joseph Haydn: a study of his life and time for youth\", was translated into English and published in Chicago in 1907. He also wrote crime novels and assisted his brother Oskar, himself a prolific writer. He was influenced by Charles Dickens, besides Karl Gutzkow and Ferdinand Stolle. He spent much of his life in Karlsruhe, and died in Breslau on 11 October 1911.\n\nHe attained a measure of commercial success with adaptations of novels in English, including novels by James Fenimore Cooper (\"The Deerslayer\" and two collections of adapted \"Leatherstocking Tales\"), Robert Montgomery Bird (\"Nick of the Woods\"), and Daniel Defoe (\"Robinson Crusoe\"). His version of Charles Sealsfield's \"Tokeah, or the White Rose\" was only one of many German versions of the late 1890s.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26664150", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26664150", "title": "Honduran Spanish", "text": "Honduran Spanish\n\nHonduran Spanish is the Spanish language as spoken in the country of Honduras in Central America. The voseo is routinely used in Honduras.\n\nThese words are some slang words used in Honduras. Some may also be used in neighboring El Salvador and elsewhere.\n"}
{"id": "43813409", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43813409", "title": "Ivan G. Istomin", "text": "Ivan G. Istomin\n\nIvan Grigoryevich Istomin (; February 7, 1917 – 1988) was a Nenets and Komi writer.\n\nIstomin was born into a family of Komi fishermen. In 1934, he graduated from the seven-year middle school in Muzhi. He graduated with distinction from the national pedagogical institute in Salekhard four years later, in 1938. While studying at the pedagogical institute, he helped organize the institute’s literary society.\n\nFrom 1938 to 1950, he taught Russian, Nenets and drawing at schools in the Yamalo-Nenets Autonomous Okrug. After that, he worked as the sub-editor for the Nenets-language newspaper \"Nyaryana Ngerm\". In 1955, he was admitted to the Soviet Union of Writers. From 1958 to 1965, he served as the assistant managing editor of national literature at the Tyumen Publishing House.\n\nIn 1936, a local newspaper published his first poem ”Reindeer”. Later on, his poems and short stories were published in literary magazines such as \"Siberian Lights\", \"Druzhba Narodov\", \"Ural\", \"Neva\", \"Voyvyv kodzuv\". In 1953, \"Our North\", Istomin’s first anthology of Nenets poems, was published as a stand-alone edition. Since then, more than 20 editions of his short stories, novellas, and novels, including his novels \"Zhivun\" and \"Vstany-trava,\" have been published in Russian, Nenets and Komi. In addition to his literary talents, Istomin also studied painting and two of his paintings are on display in the local museum in Salehkard.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37846797", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37846797", "title": "Jewish Koine Greek", "text": "Jewish Koine Greek\n\nJewish Koine Greek, or Jewish Hellenistic Greek, is the variety of Koine Greek or \"common Attic\" found in a number of Alexandrian dialect texts of Hellenistic Judaism, most notably in the Septuagint translation of the Hebrew Bible and associated literature, as well as in Greek Jewish texts from Palestine. The term is largely equivalent with Greek of the Septuagint as a cultural and literary rather than a linguistic category. The minor syntax and vocabulary variations in the Koine Greek of Jewish authors are not as linguistically distinctive as the later language Yevanic, or Judeo-Greek, spoken by the Romaniotes Jews in Greece.\n\nThe term \"Jewish Koine\" is to be distinguished from the concept of a \"Jewish koine\" as a literary-religious, not a linguistic concept.\n\nPrimary work on this area was conducted by scholars such as Henry Barclay Swete in chapter 4 of his \"Introduction to the Old Testament in Greek\". However, Swete's emphasis on the peculiarity of the Greek of the Septuagint compared to other Greek texts of the period has largely been retracted by later scholars as plentiful non-Jewish Koine domestic and administrative papyri and inscriptions have been better recovered and studied. Since Swete the equation of Jewish common Attic with the \"Greek of the Septuagint\" has also been broadened, placing the Septuagint in the context of a wide range of Jewish texts of the period, most recently including the Greek texts among the Dead Sea scrolls.\n\nNo ancient or medieval writer recognizes a distinct Jewish dialect of Greek. General academic consensus is that the Greek used in the Jewish Koine Greek texts does not differ significantly enough from pagan Koine Greek texts to be described as \"Jewish Greek.\" This also applies to the language of the New Testament. Due to the dominant influence of the Septuagint the first documents of \"Christian Greek\" and early \"Patristic Greek\" are both an extension of classical Greek on the one hand, and of biblical and Jewish-Hellenistic Greek on the other.\n\nOnly a thousand years later did there arise a true Jewish dialect of Greek, Yevanic.\n\nKoine Greek grammar already departs from earlier Greek grammar in several areas, but the Jewish texts are generally consistent with Gentile texts, with the exception of a small number of grammatical semitisms. As would be expected many Jewish texts show virtually no departures from the Koine or \"common Attic\" used by Gentile authors. Authors writing for Gentile audiences such as Josephus and Philo of Alexandria observe a standard of Greek grammar well above that of many surviving pagan sources.\n\nA major difference between the Septuagint, and associated literature, and contemporary non-Jewish Koine texts is the presence of a number of pure neologisms (new coinages) or new usage of vocabulary. However hapax legomena may not always indicate neologisms, given the specialist subject matter of the Septuagint. Also some of the \"neologisms\" of the Septuagint are not totally new coinages and may be combinations of existing terms as \"Neubildungen\" in German, such as the large number of compound words representing two or more Hebrew words.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2942390", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2942390", "title": "List of Telugu-language television channels", "text": "List of Telugu-language television channels\n\nThis is a list of satellite television channels in Telugu language (spoken in the Indian states of Andhra Pradesh and Telangana) broadcasting at least throughout Andhra Pradesh and Telangana states.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1571680", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1571680", "title": "List of document markup languages", "text": "List of document markup languages\n\nThe following is a list of document markup languages. You may also find the List of markup languages of interest.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1161621", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1161621", "title": "Ludic language", "text": "Ludic language\n\nLudic, or \"Ludian\", or \"Ludic Karelian\" (\"Luudi, Lyydi\" or \"lüüdi\"), is a Finnic language in the Uralic language family. It is transitional between the Olonets Karelian language and the Veps language. It originated as a northern dialect of Veps transformed under heavy Karelian influence. It is spoken by 3,000 Karelians in the Republic of Karelia in Russia, near the northwestern shore of Lake Onega, including a few children.\n\nIn the Finnish research tradition, Ludic has been considered, on historical grounds, a transitional dialect area between Karelian and Veps, while in the Russian research tradition it is, on ethnographic grounds, normally considered a dialect of Karelian. A status as an independent language has been proposed in recent times. Ludic is characterised by a specific mixture of Karelian-like traits (such as the diphthongisation of the Proto-Finnic non-open long vowels: e.g. *pää > \"piä\" 'head', *soo > \"suo\" 'swamp', contrast Veps \"pä\", \"so\") and Veps-like traits (such as an almost complete loss of consonant gradation).\n\nLudic comprises three main dialect groups:\nThe strongest Karelian influence is found in Northern Ludic, while the Kuďäŕv dialect shares the most features with Veps.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9930171", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9930171", "title": "Magsud Ibrahimbeyov", "text": "Magsud Ibrahimbeyov\n\nMagsud Mammadibrahim oglu Ibrahimbeyov, also spelled Ibragimbekov (; 11 May 1935 – 22 March 2016), was an Azerbaijani writer and member of the National Assembly of Azerbaijan.\n\nIbrahimbeyov was born in Baku, Azerbaijan to Mammad Ibrahimbeyov and Fatima Meshadibeyova. He was the older brother of Rustam Ibragimbekov, a prominent Russian screenwriter. In 1960, he received a B.A. in Industrial and Civil Construction from Baku Polytechnical Institute. He later worked at the Azerbaijan SSR Ministry of Construction and tried himself as a reporter representing Azerbaijan at the All-Union Radio and Television. At this stage he began focusing on literary studies and attended courses for advanced screenwriting and directing in Moscow from 1960 until 1964. Since\nAfter that time he became known as a Russophone Azerbaijani writer. Some of his plays were later acted out in theatres throughout the USSR. He also wrote screenplays for 12 feature-length movies and 11 documentary films.\n\nMagsud Ibrahimbeyov entered politics in 1985. He was elected to the National Assembly of Azerbaijan twice: in 2000 and in 2004. Even though during the elections he ran as an independent candidate, he was known for his extreme loyalty to the ruling New Azerbaijan Party. When in 2005 an independent Azerbaijani journalist Elmar Huseynov (famous for his criticism of Azerbaijani authorities) was murdered, Ibrahimbeyov refused to stand in his memory during a minute of silence in the Azerbaijani parliament, which provoked severe criticism and hostility towards him.\n\nShort stories by Ibrahimbeyov:\n"}
{"id": "52401375", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52401375", "title": "Manon Steffan Ros", "text": "Manon Steffan Ros\n\nManon Steffan Ros (born in ) is a Welsh novelist, playwright, games author, and scriptwriter. She is the daughter of Steve Eaves.\n\n"}
{"id": "985749", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=985749", "title": "Manyika dialect", "text": "Manyika dialect\n\nManyika is a dialect of the Shona language largely spoken by the Manyika people in the eastern part of Zimbabwe and across the border in Mozambique. It includes dialects ChiBocha, ChiUngwe, and ChiManyika, from which the broad Manyika language gets its name.\n\nChiManyika is spoken by people in the northern parts of Manicaland Province of Zimbabwe, (Nyanga, Honde Valley Mutasa area) whilst ChiBocha is spoken by people in the southern part of Manicaland. Manyika differs from the more predominant Zezuru dialect in a variety of small ways.\n\nCertain variations in vocabulary and word prefixes exist. For example, the prefix 'va-' (used in Shona before male names to signify seniority and respect) is replaced by 'sa-' in the Manyika language. Also the prefix 'va-' used as in people, for example standard Shona \"vanhu vakaenda vakawanda\", is replaced by 'wa-' to become \"wanhu wakaenda wakawanda\". As a result, the Manyika do not use the prefix 'va' in any form as they pronounce it as either 'sa' or 'wa'. This is how they are generally recognised as being Manyika.\n\nThe verbs in this language are tonally divided into two groups. The tonal patterns of the verbs belonging to one group are as shown below in the case of the infinitive, which has ku- as its prefix:\n\nThese tonal patterns can be represented by kuCV’CV’CV’X, kuÓCV’CV’CV’X, kuŔXCá, where X stands for a string of phonemes of any length, O for an object prefix, and R for a reflexive prefix, with an adjustment rule to the first two formulae that if X=Ø, the last CV’ can be Ø, and if both are Ø, the second CV’ can also be Ø, and with one to the last formula that if X=Ø, Cá becomes Ca.\n\nThe tonal patterns of the verbs belonging to the other group are as shown below:\n\nThe tonal representation would be: kuX, kuÓCV’X, kuŔXCá.\n\nThis language has many indicative tenses (such as Remote Past, Recent Past, Past Progressive, Present, etc.) including negative ones.\n\n"}
{"id": "48629035", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48629035", "title": "Maria Elsa da Rocha", "text": "Maria Elsa da Rocha\n\nMaria Elsa da Rocha was a Goan short-story writer and poet in Portuguese.\n\nMaria Elsa da Rocha was a school teacher by profession, which took her all over Goa (and Damão). The experiences she accrued would feed into her stories, which were also often based on hearsay and anecdotes.\n\nThroughout the 1960s, Rocha contributed short stories to the Margão-based Portuguese language newspaper \"A Vida\", in which she co-edited a cultural page together, and the Portuguese-language programme 'Renascença' broadcast on All-India Radio.\n\nIn 2005 a collection of her short stories appeared under the title \"Vivências Partilhadas\" [Shared Lives].\n\n\"Vivências Partilhadas\" provides widest range of representations of the Goan subaltern in Portuguese-language Goan literature post-1961, with a particular focus on the experiences of women, though this deep-seated sympathy at times appears to be at cross-purposes with a certain social conservatism. Rocha's writing is notable for the use she makes of particularly Goan-inflected Portuguese and the considerable use of Konkani in her dialogues.\n\n4. Cielo G. Festino \"Sharing Lives in Maria Elsa Da Rocha´s Vivências Partilhadas\" In Muse India. Goan Literature in Portuguese. Issue 70. Nov-Dec, 2016.\n\nMaria Elsa da Rocha. \"Vivências Partilhadas\". Panjim, India: Third Millennium, 2005.\n"}
{"id": "1419654", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1419654", "title": "Money shot", "text": "Money shot\n\nA money shot is a moving or stationary visual element of a film, video, television broadcast, or print publication that is disproportionately expensive to produce or is perceived as essential to the overall importance or revenue-generating potential of the work.\n\nOriginally, in general film-making usage, the \"money shot\" was simply the scene that cost the most money to produce. In general, a money shot (also called a \"money-making shot\") is a provocative, sensational, or memorable sequence in a film, on which the film's commercial performance is perceived to depend. The scene may or may not be a special-effects sequence, but may be counted on to become a selling point for the film. For example, in an action thriller, an expensive special-effects sequence of a dam bursting might be considered the money shot of the film. Many filmmakers read a script and look for the most dramatic or climactic moment—the money shot—in the proposed film. Even though the costs or technical challenges of filming such an impressive scene may be huge, producers and directors will do whatever it takes to get that shot completed. It is because of its box-office importance and expensive set-up, that this climactic scene is often referred to as a money shot.\n\nMore broadly, it can be any notably dramatic or emotional footage.\n\nThe term money shot has also been used as another name for a cum shot in pornographic films. Referring to the ejaculation scene as a money shot has been attributed to producers paying the male actors extra for it. According to Steven Ziplow, author of \"The Film Maker's Guide to Pornography\", \"the cum shot, or, as some refer to it, 'the money shot', is the most important element in the movie and that everything else (if necessary) should be sacrificed at its expense.\" It has also been argued that this is the filmed moment that the audience has paid to see. In her book \"Hard Core\", Linda Williams argues that the money shot is not simply desired in and of itself, but proves to the audience that the sex is real.\n"}
{"id": "1249586", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1249586", "title": "Namaste", "text": "Namaste\n\nNamaste (, Devanagari: नमस्ते,\n), sometimes spoken as \"Namaskar\" and \"Namaskaram\", is a customary Hindu greeting. The term has origins in the Vedic period on the Indian subcontinent. In the contemporary era, it is found on the Indian subcontinent, Southeast Asia and among the Hindu diaspora worldwide. It is used both for salutation and valediction. \"Namaste\" is usually spoken with a slight bow and hands pressed together, palms touching and fingers pointing upwards, thumbs close to the chest. This gesture is called \"Añjali Mudrā\" or \"Pranamasana\".\n\nIn Hinduism, it means \"I bow to the divine in you\". Namaste may also be spoken without the gesture or the namaste gesture performed wordlessly.\n\n\"Namaste\" (\"Namah\" + \"te\", Devanagari: नम:+ ते = नमस्ते) is derived from Sanskrit and is a combination of the word \"namah\" and the second person dative pronoun in its enclitic form, \"te\". The word \"namaḥ\" takes the Sandhi form \"namas\" before the sound \"te\".\n\nThe term \"namas\" is found in the Vedic literature. \"Namas-krita\" and related terms appear in the Hindu scripture \"Rigveda\" such as in the \"Vivaha Sukta\", verse 10.85.22 in the sense of \"worship, adore\", while \"Namaskara\" appears in the sense of \"exclamatory adoration, homage, salutation and worship\" in the \"Atharvaveda\", the \"Taittiriya Samhita\", and the \"Aitareya Brahmana\". It is an expression of veneration, worship, reverence, an \"offering of homage\" and \"adoration\" in the Vedic literature and post-Vedic texts such as the \"Mahabharata\". The phrase \"Namas-te\" appears with this meaning in \"Rigveda\" 8.75.10, \"Atharvaveda\" verse 6.13.2, \"Taittirya Samhita\" 2.6.11.2 and in numerous other instances in many early Hindu texts. It is also found in numerous ancient and medieval era sculpture and \"mandapa\" relief artwork in Hindu temples.\nAccording to the Indologist Stephen Phillips, the terms \"\"te\" and \"tvam\"\" are an informal, familiar form of \"you\" in Sanskrit, and it is typically not used for unfamiliar adults. It is reserved for someone familiar, intimate, divine or a child. By using the dative form of \"tvam\" in the greeting \"Namas-te\", there is an embedded secondary, metaphorical sense in the word. This is the basis of the pragmatic meaning of \"Namas-te\", that is \"salutations to the (divine) child (in your heart)\", states Phillips.\n\nIn the contemporary era, \"Namaḥ\" means 'bow', 'obeisance', 'reverential salutation' or 'adoration' and \"te\" means 'to you' (singular dative case of 'tvam'). Therefore, Namaste literally means \"bowing to you\". In Hinduism, it also has a spiritual import reflecting the belief that \"the divine and self (atman, soul) is same in you and me\", and connotes \"I bow to the divine in you\". According to sociologist Holly Oxhandler, it is a Hindu term which means, “the sacred in me recognizes the sacred in you”.\n\nA less common variant is used in the case of three or more people being addressed namely \"Namo vaḥ\" which is a combination of \"namaḥ\" and the enclitic 2nd person plural pronoun \"vaḥ\". The word \"namaḥ\" takes the Sandhi form \"namo\" before the sound \"v\". An even less common variant is used in the case of two people being addressed, namely, \"Namo vām\", which is a combination of \"namaḥ\" and the enclitic 2nd person dual pronoun \"vām\".\n\nExcavations for Indus civilization have revealed many male and female terracotta figures in \"Namaste\" posture. These archaeological findings are dated to be between 3000 BC to 2000 BC.\n\nThe gesture is widely used throughout the Indian subcontinent, parts of Asia and beyond where people of South and Southeast Asian origins have migrated. Namaste or namaskar is used as a respectful form of greeting, acknowledging and welcoming a relative, guest or stranger. In some contexts, Namaste is used by one person to express gratitude for assistance offered or given, and to thank the other person for his or her generous kindness.\n\nNamaskar is also part of the 16 upacharas used inside temples or any place of formal Puja (worship). \"Namaste\" in the context of deity worship, scholars conclude, has the same function as in greeting a guest or anyone else. It expresses politeness, courtesy, honor, and hospitality from one person to the other. It is used in goodbyes as well. This is sometimes expressed, in ancient Hindu scriptures such as Taittiriya Upanishad, as Atithi Devo Bhava (literally, treat the guest like a god).\nNamaste is one of the six forms of pranama, and in parts of India these terms are used synonymously.\n\nIn the Hindi and Nepalese speaking populations of the Indian subcontinent, Namaste (, Devanagari: नमस्ते) and Namaskār are used synonymously. In Nepal, people generally use Namaskāra for greeting and respecting their elders. In Odia Namaste is also known as ନମସ୍କାର (namaskār) General greeting. In Kannada, Sharanu (ಶರಣು) is used in Northern Karnataka and Namaskāra (ನಮಸ್ಕಾರ) for singular and Namaskaragalu (ನಮಸ್ಕಾರಗಳು) is widely used in the rest of Karnataka for Namaste. In Telugu, Namaste is also known as Dandamu (దండము) or namaskaram (నమస్కారం) for singular and Dandaalu or namaskaralu for plural form. Pranamamu (ప్రణామము) is also used in formal Telugu. In Bengali, the Namaste gesture is expressed as Nōmōshkar (নমস্কার), and as Prōnäm (Bengali: প্রণাম) informally. In Assamese, Nômôskar (নমস্কাৰ) is used. In Marathi, Namaskār (नमस्कार) is used. In Tamil, Namaste is known as \"Vanakkam\" (வணக்கம்) which is derived from the root word \"vanangu\" (வணங்கு) meaning \"to bow\" or \"to greet\". In Malayalam, Namaskāram (നമസ്കാരം) is used. The Sinhalese word \"namaskāra\" (නමස්කාර) which derived from Pali also has the same meaning as namaskār/namaskāra in Hindi, Nepali, Odia and Kannada languages, or a different greeting word is \"āyubōvan\" (ආයුබෝවන්) which has the meaning \"wishing long life\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "238244", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=238244", "title": "Nautical chart", "text": "Nautical chart\n\nA nautical chart is a graphic representation of a maritime area and adjacent coastal regions. Depending on the scale of the chart, it may show depths of water and heights of land (topographic map), natural features of the seabed, details of the coastline, navigational hazards, locations of natural and human-made aids to navigation, information on tides and currents, local details of the Earth's magnetic field, and human-made structures such as harbours, buildings and bridges. Nautical charts are essential tools for marine navigation; many countries require vessels, especially commercial ships, to carry them. Nautical charting may take the form of charts printed on paper or computerized electronic navigational charts. Recent technologies have made available paper charts which are printed \"on demand\" with cartographic data that has been downloaded to the commercial printing company as recently as the night before printing. With each daily download, critical data such as Local Notice to Mariners is added to the on-demand chart files so that these charts will be up to date at the time of printing.\n\nNautical charts are based on hydrographic surveys. As surveying is laborious and time-consuming, hydrographic data for many areas of sea may be dated and not always reliable. Depths are measured in a variety of ways. Historically the sounding line was used. In modern times, echo sounding is used for measuring the seabed in the open sea. When measuring the safe depth of water over an entire obstruction, such as a shipwreck, the minimum depth is checked by sweeping the area with a length of horizontal wire. This ensures that difficult to find projections, such as masts, do not present a danger to vessels navigating over the obstruction.\n\nNautical charts are issued by power of the national hydrographic offices in many countries. These charts are considered \"official\" in contrast to those made by commercial publishers. Many hydrographic offices provide regular, sometimes weekly, manual updates of their charts through their sales agents. Individual hydrographic offices produce national chart series and international chart series. Coordinated by the International Hydrographic Organization, the international chart series is a worldwide system of charts (\"INT\" chart series), which is being developed with the goal of unifying as many chart systems as possible.\n\nThere are also commercially published charts, some of which may carry additional information of particular interest, e.g. for yacht skippers.\n\nThe nature of a waterway depicted by a chart may change, and artificial aids to navigation may be altered at short notice. Therefore, old or uncorrected charts should never be used for navigation. Every producer of nautical charts also provides a system to inform mariners of changes that affect the chart. In the United States, chart corrections and notifications of new editions are provided by various governmental agencies by way of Notice to Mariners, Local Notice to Mariners, Summary of Corrections, and Broadcast Notice to Mariners. In the U.S., NOAA also has a printing partner who prints the \"POD\" (print on demand) NOAA charts, and they contain the very latest corrections and notifications at the time of printing. To give notice to mariners, radio broadcasts provide advance notice of urgent corrections.\n\nA good way to keep track of corrections is with a \"Chart and Publication Correction Record Card\" system. Using this system, the navigator does not immediately update every chart in the portfolio when a new \"Notice to Mariners\" arrives, instead creating a card for every chart and noting the correction on this card. When the time comes to use the chart, he pulls the chart and chart's card, and makes the indicated corrections on the chart. This system ensures that every chart is properly corrected prior to use. A prudent mariner should obtain a new chart if he has not kept track of corrections and his chart is more than several months old.\n\nVarious Digital Notices to Mariners systems are available on the market such as Digitrace, Voyager, or ChartCo, to correct British Admiralty charts as well as NOAA charts. These systems provide only vessel relevant corrections via e-mail or web downloads, reducing the time needed to sort out corrections for each chart. Tracings to assist corrections are provided at the same time.\n\nThe Canadian Coast Guard produces the Notice to Mariners publication which informs mariners of important navigational safety matters affecting Canadian Waters. This electronic publication is published on a monthly basis and can be downloaded from the Notices to Mariners (NOTMAR) Web site. The information in the Notice to Mariners is formatted to simplify the correction of paper charts and navigational publications.\n\nVarious and diverse methods exist for the correction of electronic navigational charts.\n\nIn 1973 the cargo ship \"MV Muirfield\" (a merchant vessel named after Muirfield, Scotland) struck an unknown object in waters charted at a depth of greater than 5,000 metres (16,404 ft), resulting in extensive damage to her keel. In 1983, HMAS \"Moresby\", a Royal Australian Navy survey ship, surveyed the area where \"Muirfield\" was damaged, and charted in detail a previously unsuspected hazard to navigation, the Muirfield Seamount. The dramatic accidental discovery of the Muirfield Seamount is often cited as an example of limitations in the vertical geodetic datum accuracy of some offshore areas as represented on nautical charts, especially on small-scale charts. \n\nA similar incident involving a passenger ship occurred in 1992 when the Cunard liner \"Queen Elizabeth 2\" struck a submerged rock off Block Island in the Atlantic Ocean. In November 1999, the semi-submersible, heavy-lift ship \"Mighty Servant 2\" capsized and sank after hitting an uncharted single underwater isolated pinnacle of granite off Indonesia. Five crew members died and \"Mighty Servant 2\" was declared a total loss. More recently, in 2005 the submarine USS \"San Francisco\" ran into an uncharted sea mount (sea mountain) about 560 kilometres (350 statute miles) south of Guam at a speed of , sustaining serious damage and killing one seaman. In September 2006 the jack-up barge \"Octopus\" ran aground on an uncharted sea mount within the Orkney Islands (United Kingdom) while being towed by the tug \"Harold\". £1M worth of damage was caused to the barge and delayed work on the installation of a tidal energy generator prototype. As stated in the Mariners Handbook and subsequent accident report: \"No chart is infallible. Every chart is liable to be incomplete\".\n\nThe Mercator projection is used on the vast majority of nautical charts. Since the Mercator projection is conformal, that is, bearings in the chart are identical to the corresponding angles in nature, courses plotted on the chart may be used directly as the course-to-steer at the helm.\n\nThe gnomonic projection is used for charts intended for plotting of great circle routes. NOAA uses the polyconic projection for some of its charts of the Great Lakes, at both large and small scales.\n\nPositions of places shown on the chart can be measured from the longitude and latitude scales on the borders of the chart, relative to a geodetic datum such as WGS 84.\n\nA bearing is the angle between the line joining the two points of interest and the line from one of the points to the north, such as a ship's course or a compass reading to a landmark. On nautical charts, the top of the chart is always true north, rather than magnetic north, towards which a compass points. Most charts include a compass rose depicting the variation between magnetic and true north.\n\nHowever, the use of the Mercator projection is not without its drawbacks. Mercator's technique was to make the lines of longitude parallel. On the real globe, the lines of longitude converge as one goes north or south away from the equator, until they meet at the pole. This distortion means that horizontal distances are exaggerated. Mercator's solution, imperfect as it might be, was to increase the distance between lines of latitude in proportion; in a Mercator's projection map, a square is a square no matter where you are on the chart, but a square on the Arctic Circle is much bigger than a square at the equator, even though both occupy the same number of degrees on the globe. The result of this is that scale in a nautical chart is dependent on latitude. In practical use, this is less of a problem than it sounds. One minute of latitude is, for practical purposes, a nautical mile. Distances in nautical miles can therefore be measured on the latitude gradations printed on the side of the chart.\n\nConventional nautical charts are printed on large sheets of paper at a variety of scales. Mariners will generally carry many charts to provide sufficient detail for the areas they might need to visit. Electronic navigational charts, which use computer software and electronic databases to provide navigation information, can augment or in some cases replace paper charts, though many mariners carry paper charts as a backup in case the electronic charting system fails.\n\nNautical charts must be labeled with navigational and depth information. There are a few commercial software packages that do automatic label placement for any kind of map or chart.\n\nMany countries' hydrographic agencies publish a \"Chart 1\", which explains all of the symbols, terms and abbreviations used on charts that they produce for both domestic and international use. Each country starts with the base symbology specified in IHO standard INT 1, and is then permitted to add its own supplemental symbologies to its domestic charts, which are also explained in its version of Chart 1. Ships are typically required to carry copies of Chart 1 with their paper charts.\n\nThe chart uses symbols to provide pilotage information about the nature and position of features useful to navigators, such as sea bed information, sea mark, and landmarks. Some symbols describe the sea bed with information such as its depth, materials as well as possible hazards such as shipwrecks. Other symbols show the position and characteristics of buoys, lights, lighthouses, coastal and land features and structures that are useful for position fixing. The abbreviation \"ED\" is commonly used to label geographic locations whose existence is doubtful.\n\nColours distinguish between man-made features, dry land, sea bed that dries with the tide, and seabed that is permanently underwater and indicate water depth.\n\nDepths which have been measured are indicated by the numbers shown on the chart. Depths on charts published in most parts of the world use metres. Older charts, as well as those published by the United States government, may use feet or fathoms. Depth contour lines show the shape of underwater relief. Coloured areas of the sea emphasise shallow water and dangerous underwater obstructions. Depths are measured from the chart datum, which is related to the local sea level. The chart datum varies according to the standard used by each national Hydrographic Office. In general, the move is towards using lowest astronomical tide (LAT), the lowest tide predicted in the full tidal cycle, but in non-tidal areas and some tidal areas Mean Sea Level (MSL) is used.\n\nHeights, e.g. a lighthouse, are generally given relative to mean high water spring (MHWS). Vertical clearances, e.g. below a bridge or cable, are given relative to highest astronomical tide (HAT). The chart will indicate what datum is in use.\n\nThe use of HAT for heights and LAT for depths, means that the mariner can quickly look at the chart to ensure that they have sufficient clearance to pass any obstruction, though they may have to calculate height of tide to ensure their safety.\n\nTidal races and other strong currents have special chart symbols. Tidal flow information may be shown on charts using tidal diamonds, indicating the speed and bearing of the tidal flow during each hour of the tidal cycle.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29140829", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29140829", "title": "Ouargli language", "text": "Ouargli language\n\nOuargli, or Teggargrent (also \"Twargrit, Təggəngusit\"), is a Zenati Berber language. It is spoken in the oases of Ouargla (\"Wargrən\") and N'Goussa (\"Ingusa\") in Algeria.\n\nAs of 1987, Ouargli had no more than 10,000 speakers. Ethnologue estimated only 5,000 speakers as of 1995.\n\nThere are some differences between the dialects of Ouargla (\"Təggargrənt\") and N'Goussa (\"Təggəngusit\"), notably in the position of pronominal clitics; within Ouargla, there are minor differences between the three tribes At-Brahim, At-Sisin and At-Waggin.\n\nSpeakers from Ouargla regard the varieties of Ouargla, N'Goussa, Tugurt/Temacine and Tumzabt/Mozabite, and possibly other Zenati varieties, as dialects of a single language they call \"Twargrit\". According to Delheure (1987:355), \"at Wargrən fəhhəmən d awəḥdi tawsint\", \"the Ouarglis understand Temacine very well.\"\n\nThe principal grammatical study is Biarnay (1908); a less detailed sketch is provided in Basset (1893). Its lexicon is fairly extensively documented in Delheure's (1987) dictionary. The bilingual texts in Biarnay and Basset are more recently supplemented by the texts on daily life in Delheure (1988) and the folk tale collection in Delheure (1989); the latter, unlike other work on Ouargli, includes texts from N'Goussa as well.\n\n"}
{"id": "33316583", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33316583", "title": "Patwin language", "text": "Patwin language\n\nPatwin (Patween) is a critically endangered Wintuan language of Northern California. As of 2003, there was \"at least one first language speaker of Patwin.\" As of 2010, Patwin language classes were taught at the Yocha Dehe Wintun Nation (formerly Rumsey Rancheria) tribal school (Dubin 2010).\n\nPatwin has two (excl. Southern Patwin) or three (incl. Southern Patwin) dialects: \"River Patwin (or Valley Patwin) was traditionally spoken along the Sacramento River in Colusa County ... Hill Patwin, was spoken in the plains and foothills to the west.\"\n\nSouthern Patwin became extinct shortly after contact. It is very poorly attested, and may be a separate Southern Wintuan language (Mithun 1999).\n\nAs of 2012, the Tewe Kewe Cultural Center of the Yocha Dehe Wintun Nation has \"a California Indian Library Collection and an extensive Patwin language and history research section.\"\n\nPatwin has 24 consonant phonemes. In the table below, the IPA form(s) of each consonant are given. This is followed by the form commonly used in published Patwin linguistics literature, if this is different from the IPA form.\n\n\nPatwin has 10 vowels:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52586493", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52586493", "title": "Peter Anthony Freeman", "text": "Peter Anthony Freeman\n\nPeter Anthony Freeman is a Welsh author and storyteller. Freeman was heavily involved with the Welsh community in Los Angeles where he was President of the Welsh League of Southern California, won the Eisteddfod Honorary Recognition for Bardic Achievements in 2013, and wrote several books on Welsh culture. Freeman also served as History and Mythology Editor of Celtic Family Magazine from 2013 to 2015. In 2017 he was elected a council member for Plaid Cymru in Pembrey, Wales.\n\nFreeman was born in Llanelli, Wales and returned in retirement after living in Los Angeles, California. He currently is pursuing community engagement.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "648049", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=648049", "title": "Promotion and relegation", "text": "Promotion and relegation\n\nIn sports leagues, promotion and relegation is a process where teams are transferred between multiple divisions based on their performance for the completed season. The best-ranked team(s) in the lower division are \"promoted\" to the higher division for the next season, and the worst-ranked team(s) in the higher division are \"relegated\" to the lower division for the next season. In some leagues, playoffs or qualifying rounds are also used to determine rankings. This process can continue through several levels of divisions, with teams being exchanged between levels 1 and 2, levels 2 and 3, levels 3 and 4, and so on. During the season, teams that are high enough in the league table that they would qualify for promotion are sometimes said to be in the \"promotion zone\", and those at the bottom are in the \"relegation zone\" (or, colloquially, the \"drop zone\" or \"facing the drop\").\n\nAn alternate system of league organisation which is used primarily in the USA and Canada is a closed model based on licensing or franchises. This maintains the same teams from year to year, with occasional admission of expansion teams and relocation of existing teams, and with no team movement between the major league and minor leagues.\n\nThe number of teams exchanged between the divisions is almost always identical. Exceptions occur when the higher division wishes to change the size of its membership, or has lost one or more of its clubs (to financial insolvency or expulsion, for example) and wishes to restore its previous membership size, in which case fewer teams are relegated from that division, or (less often) more teams are accepted for promotion from the division below. Such variations usually cause a \"knock-on\" effect through the lower divisions. For example, in 1995 the Premier League voted to reduce its numbers by two and achieved the desired change by relegating four teams instead of the usual three, whilst allowing only two promotions from Football League Division One. Even in the absence of such extraordinary circumstances, the pyramid-like nature of most European sports league systems can still create knock-on effects at the regional level. For example, in a higher league with a large geographical footprint and multiple feeder leagues each representing smaller geographical regions, should most or all of the relegated teams in the higher division come from one particular region then the number of teams to be promoted or relegated from each of the feeder leagues may have to be adjusted, or one or more teams playing near the boundary between the feeder leagues may have to transfer from one feeder league to another to maintain numerical balance.\n\nThe system is said to be the defining characteristic of the \"European\" form of professional sports league organization. Promotion and relegation have the effect of allowing the maintenance of a hierarchy of leagues and divisions, according to the relative strength of their teams. They also maintain the importance of games played by many low-ranked teams near the end of the season, which may be at risk of relegation. In contrast, a low-ranked US or Canadian team's final games serve little purpose, and in fact losing may be beneficial to such teams, yielding a better position in the next year's draft.\n\nAlthough not intrinsic to the system, problems can occur due to the differing monetary payouts and revenue-generating potential that different divisions provide to their clubs. For example, financial hardship has sometimes occurred in leagues where clubs do not reduce their wage bill once relegated. This usually occurs for one of two reasons: first, the club can't move underperforming players on, or second, the club is gambling on being promoted back straight away and is prepared to take a financial loss for one or two seasons to do so. Some leagues (most notably English football's Premier League) offer \"parachute payments\" to its relegated teams for the following year(s). The payouts are higher than the prize money received by some non-relegated teams and are designed to soften the financial hit that clubs take whilst dropping out of the Premier League. However, in many cases these parachute payments just serve to inflate the costs of competing for promotion among the lower division clubs as newly relegated teams retain a financial advantage.\n\nIn some countries and at certain levels, teams in line for promotion may have to satisfy certain non-playing conditions in order to be accepted by the higher league, such as financial solvency, stadium capacity, and facilities. If these are not satisfied, a lower-ranked team may be promoted in their place, or a team in the league above may be saved from relegation.\n\nWhile the primary purpose of the promotion/relegation system is to maintain competitive balance, it may also be used as a disciplinary tool in special cases. On several occasions, the\nItalian Football Federation has relegated clubs found to have been involved in match-fixing. This occurred most recently in 2006, when the season's initial champions Juventus were relegated to Serie B, and two other teams were initially relegated but then restored to Serie A after appeal (see 2006 Serie A scandal). In some Communist nations, particularly several in Europe after World War II, clubs were promoted and relegated for political reasons rather than performance; clubs in East Germany, Romania, and Yugoslavia were given top-flight placements by the Communist authorities from their beginnings, and often held onto their places with these authorities' backing.\n\nPromotion and relegation may be used in international sports tournaments. In tennis, the Davis Cup and Fed Cup have promotion and relegation, with a 'World Group' (split into two divisions in the Fed Cup) at the top and series of regional groups at a lower level. The World Groups in both use a knockout tournament format, with the first-round losers entering play-offs with winners from regional groups to avoid relegation. In international tournaments, this format allows teams from countries in which a sport is less well established to have competitive matches, while opening up the possibility of competing against higher ranked nations as a sport grows. Other international tournaments which employ promotion and relegation include the Ice Hockey World Championships, Bandy World Championships, Floorball World Championships, the UEFA Nations League, the World Cricket League and the European Team Championships in athletics.\n\nIn baseball, the earliest American sport to develop professional leagues, the National Association of Base Ball Players (NABBP) was established in 1857 as a national governing body for the game. In many respects, it would resemble England's Football Association when founded in 1863. Both espoused strict amateurism in their early years and welcomed hundreds of clubs as members.\n\nBaseball's National Association was not able to survive the onset of professionalism. It responded to the trend — clubs secretly paying or indirectly compensating players — by establishing a \"professional\" class for 1869. As quickly as 1871, most of those clubs broke away and formed the National Association of Professional Base Ball Players (NAPBBP). That new, professional Association was open at a modest fee, but it proved to be unstable. It was replaced by the National League of Professional Base Ball Clubs in 1876, which has endured to the present day. The founders of the new League judged that in order to prosper, they must make baseball's highest level of competition a \"closed shop\", with a strict limit on the number of teams, each member having exclusive local rights.\n\nThe modest National League guarantee of a place in the league year after year would permit the owners to monopolize fan bases in their exclusive territories and give them the confidence to invest in infrastructure, such as improved ballparks. In turn, those would guarantee the revenues to support traveling halfway across a continent for games. Indeed, after its first season, the new league banked on its still doubtful stability by expelling its members in New York and Philadelphia (the two largest cities), because they had breached agreements to visit the four western clubs at the end of the season.\n\nThe NL's dominance of baseball was challenged several times but only by entire leagues, after its first few years. Eight clubs, the established norm for a national league, was a prohibitively high threshold for a new venture. Two challengers succeeded beyond the short-term, with the National League fighting off a challenge from the American Association after a decade (concluded 1891). In 1903 it accepted parity with the American League and the formation of the organization that would become Major League Baseball. The peace agreement between the NL and the AL did not change the \"closed shop\" of top-level baseball but entrenched it by including the AL in the shop. This was further confirmed by the Supreme Court's 1922 ruling in \"Federal Baseball Club v. National League\", giving MLB a legal monopoly over professional baseball in the US.\n\nThe other major professional sports leagues in the United States and Canada have followed the MLB model of a closed shop with no merit-based promotion or relegation since their inceptions.\n\nIn contrast to baseball's NABBP, the first governing body in English football survived the onset of professionalism, which it formally accepted in 1885. Perhaps the great geographical concentration of population and the corresponding short distances between urban centres was crucial. Certainly it provided the opportunity for more clubs' developing large fan bases without incurring great travel costs. Professional football did not gain acceptance until after the turn of the 20th century in most of Southern England. The earliest league members travelled only through the Midlands and North.\n\nWhen The Football League (now the English Football League) was founded in 1888, it was not intended to be a rival of The Football Association but rather the top competition within it. The new league was not universally accepted as England's top-calibre competition right away. To help win fans of clubs outside The Football League, its circuit was not closed; rather, a system was established in which the worst teams at the end of each season would need to win re-election against any clubs wishing to join.\n\nA rival league, the Football Alliance, was formed in 1889. When the two merged in 1892, it was not on equal terms; rather, most of the Alliance clubs were put in the new Football League Second Division, whose best teams would move up to the First Division in place of its worst teams. Another merger, with the top division of the Southern League in 1920, helped form the Third Division in similar fashion. Since then no new league has been formed of non-league clubs to try to achieve parity with The Football League (only to play at a lower level, like independent professional leagues in American baseball today).\n\nFor decades, teams finishing near the bottom of The Football League's lowest division(s) faced re-election rather than automatic relegation. But the principle of promotion and relegation had been firmly established, and it eventually expanded to the football pyramid in place today. Meanwhile, The FA has remained English football's overall governing body, retaining amateur and professional clubs rather than breaking up.\n\nPromotion and relegation has been used in several eSports leagues. In the World Cyber Games realm, Blizzard Entertainment's video game \"\" uses a seven-level promotion and relegation system for its tournament structure. Individual players and pre-made teams can be promoted and relegated during the first few weeks of a league season, which generally lasts around 11 weeks, with promotion and relegation taking place based on a hidden skill rating, which is in turn based on wins and losses. The most professional \"League of Legends\" leagues like the League of Legends Championship Series and League of Legends Champions Korea use a promotion and relegation system. The \"\" Majors use a similar system wherein the top eight finishers of one of the tri-annual Majors are designated with the \"Legends\" seed and automatically qualified for the next Major tournament. The bottom eight teams must play in a qualifying tournament in order to compete at the next Major.\n\nFrom 1993 until 2003, the Eurovision Song Contest used various systems of relegation to reconcile the number of countries wishing to participate (approximately 30 at the time) with the number of performances allowed considering time constraints of a live television program. The addition of a semi-final in 2004 allowed for more than 26 songs, but in 2008 automatic qualification of the previous year's top 10 to the final was removed.\n\nFrom 1957 to 1966 and from 1981 to the present, the Argentine First Division has used a system called \"Promedios\" based on the average performance over a number of seasons. Originally the previous two seasons, and later three or four seasons, clubs avoid relegation by having a high coefficient, which is obtained by dividing the points achieved in the last four seasons by the number of matches played in the same period. Teams with the lowest points coefficient at the end of the season are relegated to the Primera B Nacional.\n\nThis system has both positive and negative aspects, since all of the matches played for the championship in the last seasons are included in the coefficient for the clubs. Teams have an incentive to score points in every match of the season, meaning teams that are not challenging for the title or fighting relegation in the current season want to win even in the final matches to reduce the risk of relegation in the next season; examples are Club Atlético Banfield being champion of the Torneo Apertura in 2009 and last place in the next championship, the Torneo Clausura 2010, without being relegated until the end of the Torneo Apertura 2010 with a second-to-last place finish.\n\nSimilarly, River Plate finished last in the Torneo Apertura 2008 and after two bad campaigns and a regular one was relegated in the Torneo Clausura 2011 despite being in fifth place and qualifying for the 2011 Copa Sudamericana. This system forces the newly promoted teams to fight relegation from the very beginning of the season. It also allows teams with a low budget with previous good campaigns to compete in international competitions without having to prioritize the championship to avoid relegation; examples of this are Club Atlético Lanús, winner of the 2013 Copa Sudamericana, or Club Atlético Talleres, winner of the 1999 Conmebol Cup. The Uruguayan First Division adopted the same system in 2016.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5425320", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5425320", "title": "Prosleptic syllogism", "text": "Prosleptic syllogism\n\nA prosleptic syllogism (; from Greek πρόσληψις \"proslepsis\" \"taking in addition\") is a class of syllogisms that use a prosleptic proposition as one of the premises.\n\nThe term originated with Theophrastus.\n\nProsleptic syllogisms are classified in three figures, or potential arrangements of the terms according to the figure of the prosleptic proposition used.\nFirst figure: \"A is universally predicated of everything that is universally predicated of G\"\nSecond figure: \"Everything predicated universally of A is predicated universally of G\"\nThird figure: \"A is universally predicated of everything of which G is universally predicated\"\n\nConsequently, a third figure prosleptic syllogism would read \"A is universally affirmed of everything of which G is universally affirmed; G is universally affirmed of B; therefore, A is universally affirmed of B.\" (\"All G are A; all B are G; therefore, all B are A\" or \"Statement A is always true of everything for which statement G is always true; statement G is true of all things B; therefore, statement A is true of all things B.\")\n\n"}
{"id": "12310990", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12310990", "title": "Separation of protection and security", "text": "Separation of protection and security\n\nIn computer sciences the separation of protection and security is a design choice. Wulf et al. identified protection as a mechanism and security as a policy, therefore making the protection-security distinction a particular case of the separation of mechanism and policy principle.\n\nThe adoption of this distinction in a computer architecture, usually means that protection is provided as a fault tolerance mechanism by hardware/firmware and kernel, whereas the operating system and applications implement their security policies. In this design, security policies rely therefore on the protection mechanisms and on additional cryptography techniques.\n\nThe major hardware approach for security or protection is the use of hierarchical protection domains. Prominent example of this approach is ring architecture with \"supervisor mode\" and \"user mode\"). Such approach adopts a policy already at the lower levels (hardware/firmware/kernel), restricting the rest of the system to rely on it. Therefore, the choice to distinguish between protection and security in the overall architecture design implies rejection of the hierarchical approach in favour of another one, the capability-based addressing.\n\nExamples of models with protection and security separation include: access matrix, UCLA Data Secure Unix, take-grant and filter. Such separation is not found in models like: high-water mark, Bell–LaPadula (original and revisited), information flow, strong dependency and constraints.\n\n"}
{"id": "511762", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=511762", "title": "Shadow person", "text": "Shadow person\n\nA shadow person (also known as a shadow figure, shadow being or black mass) is the perception of a patch of shadow as a living, humanoid figure, particularly as interpreted by believers in the paranormal or supernatural as the presence of a spirit or other entity.\n\nA number of religions, legends, and belief systems describe shadowy spiritual beings or supernatural entities such as shades of the underworld, and various shadowy creatures have long been a staple of folklore and ghost stories.\n\nThe \"Coast to Coast AM\" late night radio talk show helped popularize modern beliefs in shadow people. The first time the topic of shadow people was discussed at length on the show was April 12, 2001 when host Art Bell interviewed Native American elder Thunder Strikes, who is also known as Harley \"SwiftDeer\" Reagan. During the show, listeners were encouraged to submit drawings of shadow people that they had seen and a large number of these drawings were immediately shared publicly on the website. In October that year, Heidi Hollis published her first book on the topic of shadow people, and later became a regular guest on \"Coast to Coast\". Hollis describes shadow people as dark silhouettes with human shapes and profiles that flicker in and out of peripheral vision, and claims that people have reported the figures attempting to \"jump on their chest and choke them\". She believes the figures to be negative, alien beings that can be repelled by various means, including invoking \"the Name of Jesus\".\n\nAlthough participants in online discussion forums devoted to paranormal and supernatural topics describe them as menacing, other believers and paranormal authors do not agree whether shadow people are either evil, helpful, or neutral, and some even speculate that shadow people may be the extra-dimensional inhabitants of another universe. Some paranormal investigators and authors such as Chad Stambaugh claim to have recorded images of shadow people on video.\n\nShadow people feature in two episodes of ITV paranormal documentary series \"Extreme Ghost Stories\", where the phenomenon is described as a \"black mass\".\n\nSeveral physiological and psychological conditions can account for reported experiences of shadowy shapes seeming alive. A sleep paralysis sufferer may perceive a \"shadowy or indistinct shape\" approaching them when they lie awake paralyzed and become increasingly alarmed. Neuroscientists Baland Jalal and V.S. Ramachandran have recently proposed neurological theories for why people hallucinate shadow figures during sleep paralysis.\n\nA person experiencing heightened emotion, such as while walking alone on a dark night, may incorrectly perceive a patch of shadow as an attacker.\n\nMany methamphetamine addicts report the appearance of \"shadow people\" after prolonged periods of sleep deprivation. Psychiatrist Jack Potts suggests that methamphetamine usage adds a \"conspiratorial component\" to the sleep deprivation hallucinations. One interviewed subject said that \"You don't see shadow dogs or shadow birds or shadow cars. You see shadow people. Standing in doorways, walking behind you, coming at you on the sidewalk.\" These hallucinations have been directly compared to the paranormal entities described in folklore.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31688344", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31688344", "title": "Siona language", "text": "Siona language\n\nThe Siona language (otherwise known as Sioni, Pioje, Pioche-Sioni, Ganteyabain, Ganteya, Ceona, Zeona, Koka, Kanú) is a Tucanoan language of Colombia and Ecuador.\n\nAs of 2013, Siona is spoken by about 550 people.\nTeteté dialect (Eteteguaje) is extinct.\n\nThere are 6 oral vowels and six nasal vowels. Only nasal vowels occur next to a nasal consonant or .\n\nThere are two series of obstruent consonant. Both often produce a noticeable delay before the onset of the following vowel: the 'fortis' series (written \"p t č k kw s h hw\") tends to be aspirated, with a noisy transition to the vowel, while the 'lenis' series (written \"b d g gw ’ z\"), optionally voiced, is glottalized, with a silent transition to the vowel, which in turn tends to be laryngealized. The glottal stop is faint, and noticeable primarily in the laryngealizing effect it has on adjacent vowels.\n is realized as between vowels. is realized as next to nasal vowels.\nStress is obligatory on all verb stems, root words, and some suffixes. It disappears when the syllable is not the nucleus of a phonological word. Some monosyllabic morphemes have both stressed and unstressed forms. Although the position of stress within a word is not contrastive, vocalic and consonantal allophony depends on whether a syllable is stressed. Initial stressed vowels followed by unstressed vowels are long and have a falling tone.\n\n"}
{"id": "1048806", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1048806", "title": "Talian dialect", "text": "Talian dialect\n\nTalian (or Brazilian Venetian, , , but ) is a dialect of the Venetian language, spoken primarily in the Serra Gaúcha region in the northeast of the state of Rio Grande do Sul in Brazil. It is also spoken in other parts of Rio Grande do Sul, as well as in parts of Espirito Santo and of Santa Catarina.\n\nDespite the similar names, Talian is not derived from standard Italian (usually called or \"grammatical Italian\" in Brazil), but is mainly a mix of Venetian dialects influenced by other Gallo-Italian languages as well as local Portuguese.\n\nItalian settlers first began arriving into these regions in a wave of immigration lasting from approximately 1875 to 1914. These settlers were mainly from Veneto, a region in Northern Italy, where Venetian was spoken, but also from Trentino and Friuli-Venezia Giulia. In the south of Brazil these immigrants settled as smallholders in the region of Encosta da Serra. There they created three settlements: Conde D'Eu (now, Garibaldi, Rio Grande do Sul), Dona Isabel (now Bento Gonçalves, Rio Grande do Sul), and Campo dos Bugres (now Caxias do Sul). As more people arrived, the Italian settlement expanded beyond these localities. Approximately 100,000 immigrants from Northern Italy arrived between 1875 and 1910. As time went by, a uniquely southern Brazilian dialect emerged. Veneto became the basis for Italian-Brazilian regionalism.\n\nTalian was very much influenced not only by other Italian languages but by Portuguese, the national language of Brazil. However, because its grammar and lexicon remain predominantly Venetian, Talian is not considered a creole language, despite the preponderance of non-Venetian loanwords. It has been estimated that there have been 130 books published in Talian, including works of both poetry and prose.\n\nLike Riograndenser Hunsrückisch (\"hunsriqueano riograndense\"), the main German dialect spoken by southern Brazilians of German origin, Talian has suffered great deprecation since the 1940s. At that time, then-President Getúlio Vargas started a campaign of nationalization (similar to the Nacionalismo of neighboring Argentina) to try to force non-Portuguese speakers of Brazil to \"better integrate\" into the national mainstream culture. Speaking Talian or German in public, especially in education and press, was forbidden.\n\nTalian is mainly spoken in the southern Brazilian states of Rio Grande do Sul, Santa Catarina and Paraná, as well as in Espirito Santo. Nowadays, there are approximately 3 million people of Italian ancestry in Rio Grande do Sul, about 30% of the local population, and approximately 1.7 million people in Espirito Santo, which accounts for 65% of the local population. According to some estimates, there are up to one million speakers of Talian today; Ethnologue reported 4,000,000 speakers in the year 2006. During the \"Estado Novo\" period of the government of Getúlio Vargas, the use of Talian was declared illegal. As a result of the traumas of Vargas' policies, there is, even to this day, a stigma attached to speaking these languages. \n\nIn 2009, the legislative assemblies of the states of Rio Grande do Sul and Santa Catarina approved laws declaring the Talian dialect to be an integral part of the historical heritage of their respective states. In 2009, the city of Serafina Corrêa, in the State of Rio Grande do Sul, elected Talian as co-official language, alongside Portuguese. Finally, in 2014 Talian was declared to be part of the cultural heritage of Brazil (\"Língua e referência cultural brasileira\") by the National Institute of Historic and Artistic Heritage. According to the figure given at this time, there would be about 500,000 active speakers in 133 towns.\n\nNewspapers in the Talian-speaking region feature articles written in the language. There are approximately 500 radio programs broadcast in Talian.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2414231", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2414231", "title": "Tsimshianic languages", "text": "Tsimshianic languages\n\nThe Tsimshianic languages are a family of languages spoken in northwestern British Columbia and in Southeast Alaska on Annette Island and Ketchikan. All Tsimshianic languages are endangered, some with only around 400 speakers. Only around 2,170 people of the ethnic Tsimshian population in Canada still speak a Tsimshian language; about 50 of the 1,300 Tsimshian people living in Alaska still speak Coast Tsimshian. Tsimshianic languages are considered by most linguists to be an independent language family, with four main languages: Coast Tsimshian, Southern Tsimshian, Nisg̱a’a, and Gitksan.\n\nThe Tsimshianic languages were included by Edward Sapir in his Penutian hypothesis, a theory which is currently not widely accepted but is undergoing investigation by Marie-Lucie Tarpent.\n\nTsimshianic consists of 4 lects:\n\n\nCoast Tsimshian is spoken along the lower Skeena River in Northwestern British Columbia, on some neighbouring islands, and to the north at New Metlakatla, Alaska. Southern Tsimshian was spoken on an island quite far south of the Skeena River in the village of Klemtu, however it became extinct in 2013. Nisga’a is spoken along the Nass River. Gitksan is spoken along the Upper Skeena River around Hazelton and other areas.\n\nNisga’a and Gitksan are very closely related and are usually considered dialects of the same language by linguists. However, speakers from both groups consider themselves ethnically separate from each other and from the Tsimshian and thus consider Nisga’a and Gitksan to be separate languages. Coast and Southern Tsimshian are also often regarded as dialects of the same language.\n\nAs of 2013, Tsimshian courses are available at the University of Alaska Southeast.\n\nConsonantal inventory of Proto-Tsimshian:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3075339", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3075339", "title": "Umvelinqangi", "text": "Umvelinqangi\n\nUMvelinqangi is an IsiZulu word which translates to the Most High or Divine Consciousness; that is considered the source of all that has been, that is and all that ever will be. UMvelinqangi contrary to widespread belief is not personified(not made to seem like a person or external being). Umvelinqangi is most accurately described as the inner light of creation. Ukukhothama(meditation) was a widespread practice prior westernisation among the Zulu clan. Ukukhothama was seen as a way of attaining ubunye noMvelinqangi(oneness with the divine conscious), This practice is primarily the reason why the amaZulu clan survived through the ages without any form of western/modern resources.\n\nThe attainment/realisation of uMvelinqangi enabled the amaZulu to find natural cures and solutions for their ailments, much like the tribes of the Amazon rain forest today.\n"}
{"id": "31211610", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31211610", "title": "Venugopal Sorab", "text": "Venugopal Sorab\n\nVenugopala Soraba was an Indian poet and writer in Kannada and in English. He authored five novels in Kannada and several collections of poems in Kannada and English. His first major literary work was a collection of poems called \"Musuku Nasuku\".\n\nSoraba was born in Devanahalli, Bangalore Rural district in Karnataka, India, on November 29, 1937. His father was Rama Rao Soraba and his mother Seeta Bai. He was married to Savita Venugopala, and has four sons. He was an English professor in Kanakapura Rural College and NMKRV College for Women, Jayanagar.\n\nHis works include:\n\n"}
{"id": "16335356", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16335356", "title": "Vladimir Szmurlo", "text": "Vladimir Szmurlo\n\nVladimír von Szmurlo (pronounced \"shmurlo\"; 1865-1931) was a Russian Esperantist and railway engineer.\n\nHe studied in Saint Petersburg. Before learning Esperanto, he spoke the earlier auxiliary language of Volapük, but was nonetheless very quick to adopt Esperanto. He launched the first Esperanto literature competition in Saint Petersburg in 1896. In 1905, following the Russian Revolution he moved to Stuttgart until 1908, when he moved to Riga, where he lived until his death. In 1910 he founded the Esperanto association La Riga Stelo and became its first president. From 1910 to 1915 he was a UEA delegate in Riga.\n\nHe published:\n\nHe worked with others on publications such as \"La Esperantisto\", \"Internacia Scienca Revuo\", \"Lingvo Internacia\" and \"Scienca Gazeto\". He edited and published the magazine \"Riga Stelo\", from 1910 to 1911. He wrote \"ANA (Alfabeta Nomaro-Adresaro)\", also known as \"Ariadna fadeno (\"Ariadne's Thread\")\", a first attempt at an Esperanto encyclopedia, in 1916/1917. However, because of World War I, publication was forced to cease after the initial letter 'E', and the content of the whole was somewhat lacking.\n\nSzmurlo also compiled a Complete Russian-Esperanto Dictionary in 1916. In his last years, he was interested principally in the various systems and institutions of the Lingvo Internacia (Esperanto, as it is most commonly known today).\n\nIn 1920 he created a derivative auxiliary language called Arlingo, based on Esperanto, which was never published.\n"}
{"id": "23034596", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23034596", "title": "Vocal effort", "text": "Vocal effort\n\nVocal effort is a quantity varied by speakers when adjusting to an increase or decrease in the communication distance. The communication distance is the distance between the speaker and the listener. Vocal effort is a subjective physiological quantity, and is mainly dependent on subglottal pressure, vocal fold tension and jaw opening. Vocal effort is different from sound pressure. To measure vocal effort, listeners are asked to rate the distance between speaker and addressee.\n"}
{"id": "15661017", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15661017", "title": "Wine law", "text": "Wine law\n\nWine laws are legislation regulating various aspects of production and sales of wine. The purpose of wine laws includes combating wine fraud, by means of regulated protected designations of origin, labelling practices and classification of wine, as well as regulating allowed additives and procedures in winemaking and viticulture. Legislation affecting all kinds of alcohol beverages, such as the legal drinking age and licensing practices related to distribution and sales, are usually not considered wine laws.\n\nWine is regulated by regional, state, and local laws. The laws and their relative rigidity differ for New World and Old World wines. Old World wines tend to have more stringent regulations than New World wines. Various wine laws, however, may include appellation-based regulations that cover boundaries as well as permitted grape varieties and winemaking practice-such as the French \"Appellation d'origine contrôlée\" (AOC), Italian \"Denominazione di origine controllata\" (DOC), Spanish \"Denominación de Origen\" (DO) and Portuguese \"Denominação de Origem Controlada\" (DOC). In some New World wine regions, such as the United States and Australia, the wine laws of the appellation systems (American Viticultural Area (AVA) and Australian Geographical Indication (GIs)) only pertain to boundary specifics and guaranteeing that a certain percentage of grapes come from the area listed on the wine label.\n\nSome wine laws are established by local governments and are specific to that wine region, such as the 1954 municipal decree in the village of Châteauneuf-du-Pape that banned the overhead flying, landing or taking off of aviation in the commune which could negatively affect the region's vineyards and wine production.\n\nThe oldest known wine laws were created by the Roman emperor Domitian, who c. 92 issued an edict that banned the plantings of any new vineyards in Italy and ordered the uprooting of half of the vineyards in Roman provinces. The purpose of the edict was to improve the food supply of Roman cities by increasing the production of cereals. There is evidence to suggest that Domitian's edict was largely ignored in the Roman provinces. Domitian's edict, while probably not followed to any greater extent, stayed in effect for 188 years until Emperor Probus repealed the measure in 280.\n\nIn the Holy Roman Empire, the oldest wine law was created by the \"Reichstag\" 1498 to combat wine fraud.\n\nIn the wake of the Great French Wine Blight, which led to much wine fraud to supplement diminishing supply, wine laws were created in France to combat fraud. The French wine legislation later evolved to the AOC system, and inspired common European Union regulations.\n\nIn the European Union (EU), much of the wine law is common to all countries through the European Union wine regulations which is a part of the Common Agricultural Policy (CAP). The CAP Wine Regime consists of a set of rules that govern the wine sector, with the aim of achieving a balanced and open market. The principal features are rules governing production, oenological practices and processes, classification of wines, a range of structural and support measures, detailed rules governing the description and labeling of wines, and imports from non-EU countries.\n\nIn addition to regulations that apply to all EU members, each EU country has its own framework of laws which govern aspects of winemaking such as the percentage of a grape to be included in a wine labeled with that variety name. For instance, in France wine professionals acribe to the Appellation d’Origine Contrôlée (AOC) system, which guarantees the origin of wine and other food products, such as cheese.\n\nIn the United States, the wine laws are more flexible than European standards in regards to regulations on what viticultural and winemaking practice are allowed in each wine region. The Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives (BATFE) defines and approves applications for regions to become American Viticultural Areas. This system was established in 1978 with the Augusta AVA in Missouri designated as the first recognized AVA on June 20, 1980. A sizable portion of American wine laws relate to wine labelling practices and include the stipulations that if an AVA name appears on the label that at least 85% of grapes used to produce the wine must come from that AVA. In addition to AVAs, every American state and county can produce wine and label it under their state/county wide appellation provided at least 75% of the grapes come from that area. The state of California and Texas have wine laws increasing the requirement to 100% and 85%, respectively, for use of a statewide appellation on the wine label.\n\nThe appearance of grape variety (or varietal) and vintage year is also regulated by US wine labeling laws with requirements of at least 75% for the grape variety and 95% being harvested in that vintage year for either to appear on the wine label. The state of Oregon has increased the restriction for grape variety to 90%, with exception of Cabernet Sauvignon which under Oregon wine laws can have a minimum 75%. Additionally, all US wine must include the Surgeon General warning about dangers associated with alcohol consumption and a warning about the possible use of sulfites. Several wineries and importers have had conflicts with the BATFE over these labeling requirements, one notable example being the importer Kermit Lynch. The criticism is typically centered on the absence of inclusion about the potential positive aspects of moderate wine consumption (such as the so-called \"French paradox\") and that many wineries are forced to label their wines as \"containing sulfites\" when the decision to use sulfites are normally not made until long after wine labels have been ordered and the finished wine may contain no added sulfites.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39877353", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39877353", "title": "Xosé María Díaz Castro", "text": "Xosé María Díaz Castro\n\nXosé María Díaz Castro (b. Guitiriz, 19 February 1914 – d. Lugo, 2 October 1990) was a Galician poet and translator.\n\nGalician Literature Day is dedicated to him in 2014.\n\n\nTo Spanish: Verner von Heidenstam, Henrik Pontoppidan, Johannes Vilhelm Jensen, Rainer Maria Rilke, William Butler Yeats, T. S. Eliot, Walt Whitman, G. K. Chesterton, Frederick Forsyth, Friedrich Schiller, Arthur Rimbaud, Paul Valéry, Alphonse de Lamartine and Paul Claudel.\n\nTo English: Federico García Lorca and Rafael Alberti.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "956315", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=956315", "title": "Yaghnobi language", "text": "Yaghnobi language\n\nThe Yaghnobi language is a living Eastern Iranian language (the other living members being Pashto, Ossetic and the Pamir languages). Yaghnobi is spoken in the upper valley of the Yaghnob River in the Zarafshan area of Tajikistan by the Yaghnobi people. It is considered to be a direct descendant of Sogdian and has often been called Neo-Sogdian in academic literature.\n\nThere are some 12,500 Yaghnobi speakers. They are divided into several communities. The principal group lives in the Zafarobod area. There are also resettlers in the Yaghnob Valley. Some communities live in the villages of Zumand and Kůkteppa and in Dushanbe or in its vicinity.\n\nMost Yaghnobi speakers are bilingual in the West Iranian Tajik. Yaghnobi is mostly used for daily family communication, and Tajik is used by Yaghnobi-speakers for business and formal transactions. A single Russian ethnographer was told by nearby Tajiks, long hostile to the Yaghnobis, who were late to adopt Islam, that the Yaghnobis used their language as a \"secret\" mode of communication to confuse the Tajiks. The account led to the belief by some, especially those reliant solely on Russian sources, that Yaghnobi or some derivative of it was used as a code for nefarious purposes.\n\nThere are two main dialects: a western and an eastern one. They differ primarily in phonetics. For example, historical \"*θ\" corresponds to \"t\" in the western dialects and \"s\" in the eastern: \"met\" – \"mes\" 'day' from Sogdian \"mēθ\" . Western \"ay\" corresponds to Eastern \"e\": \"wayš\" – \"weš\" 'grass' from Sogdian \"wayš\" or \"wēš\" . The early Sogdian group \"θr\" (later \"ṣ̌\") is reflected as \"sar\" in the east but \"tir\" in the west: \"saráy\" – \"tiráy\" 'three' from Sogdian \"θrē\"/\"θray\" or \"ṣ̌ē\"/\"ṣ̌ay\" . There are also some differences in verbal endings and in the lexicon. In between the two main dialects is a transitional dialect that shares some features of both other dialects.\n\nYaghnobi was unwriten until the 1990s, but according to Andreyev, some of the Yaghnobi mullahs used the Arabic script for writing the language before 1928, mainly when they needed to hide some information from the Tajiks. Nowadays, the language is transcribed by scholars using a modified Latin alphabet, with the following symbols:\na (á), ā (ā́), b, č, d, e (é), f, g, ɣ, h, ḥ, i (í), ī (ī́), ǰ, k, q, l, m (m̃), n (ñ), o (ó), p, r, s, š, t, u (ú), ū (ū́), ʏ (ʏ́), v, w (u̯), x, x°, y, z, ž, ع\n\nTITUS transcribes the alphabet as such: a (á), b, č, d, e (é), ĕ (ĕ́), ẹ (ẹ́), ẹ̆ (ẹ̆́), ə (ə́), f, g, ɣ, h, x̣, i (í), ĭ (ĭ́), ī (ī́), ǰ, k, q, l, m (m̃), n (ñ), o (ó), ọ (ọ́), p, r, s, š, t, u (ú), ŭ (ŭ́), ı̥ (í̥), v, u̯, x, x°, y, z, ž, ع\n\nIn recent times, Sayfiddīn Mīrzozoda, from the Tajik Academy of Sciences, uses a modified Tajik alphabet for writing Yaghnobi. The alphabet is quite unsuitable for Yaghnobi, as it does not distinguish short and long vowels or v and w and it does not mark stress. Latin equivalents are given in parentheses:\n\nА а (a), Б б (b), В в (v), Ԝ ԝ (w), Г г (g), Ғ ғ (ɣ), Д д (d), Е е (e/ye), Ё ё (yo), Ж ж (ž), З з (z), И и (i, ī), Ӣ ӣ (ī), й (y), К к (k), Қ қ (q)\nЛ л (l), М м (m), Н н (n), О о (o), П п (p), Р р (r), С с (s), Т т (t), У у (u, ū, ʏ), Ӯ ӯ (ū, ʏ), Ф ф (f), Х х (x), \"Хԝ хԝ\" (x°), Ҳ ҳ (h, ḥ), Ч ч (č), Ҷ ҷ (ǰ), Ш ш (š), Ъ ъ (ع), Э э (e), Ю ю (yu, yū, yʏ), Я я (ya)\n\nNotes to Cyrillic:\n\nYaghnobi includes 9 monophthongs (3 short, 6 long), 8 diphthongs, and 27 consonants.\n\nThe diphthongs in Yaghnobi are . only appears in native words in the western dialects, eastern dialects have in its place, except in loanwords.\n\n\n\n\"W\", \"E\" and \"Tr.\" refer to the Western, Eastern and Transitional dialects.\n\nCase endings:\nExamples:\n\nThe 2nd person plural, \"šumóx\" also finds use as the polite form of the 2nd person.\n\nPersonal endings – present:\n\nPersonal endings – preterite (with augment \"a-\"):\nBy adding the ending \"-išt\" (\"-št\" after a vowel; but \"-or+išt\" > \"-ošt\") to the preterite, the durative preterite is formed.\n\nThe present participle is formed by adding \"-na\" to the verbal stem. Past participle (or perfect participle) is formed by addition of \"-ta\" to the stem.\n\nThe infinitive is formed by addition of ending \"-ak\" to the verbal stem.\n\nNegation is formed by prefix \"na-\", in combination with augment in preterite it changes to \"nē-\".\n\nThe copula is this:\n\nKnowledge of Yaghnobi lexicon comes from three main works: from a Yaghnobi-Russian dictionary presented in Yaghnobi texts by \"Andreyev\" and \"Peščereva\" and then from a supplementary word list presented in Yaghnobi grammar by \"Xromov\". The last work is Yaghnobi-Tajik Dictionary compiled by Xromov's student, \"Sayfiddīn Mīrzozoda\", himself a Yaghnobi native speaker. Yaghnobi Tajik words represent the majority of lexicon (some 60%), followed by words of Turkic origin (up to 5%, mainly from Uzbek) and a few Russian words (about 2%; through Russian language also many international words came to Yaghnobi). Only a third of the lexicon is Eastern-Iranian origin and can be easily comparable to those known from Sogdian, Ossetian, Pamir languages or Pashto.\n\n(M. S. Andrejev, Je. M. Peščereva, Jagnobskije teksty s priloženijem jagnobsko-russkogo slovarja, Moskva – Leningrad 1957) \"(in Russian)\"\n\n(M. N.Bogoljubov, Jagnobskij /novosogdijskij/ jazyk. Issledovanija i materialy. Avtoreferat na soiskanije učenoj stepeni doktora filologičeskix nauk, Leningrad 1956) \"(in Russian)\"\n(M. N. Bogoljubov: Jagnobskij jazyk. In: V. V. Vinogradov (ed.): Jazyki narodov SSSR. Tom pervyj: Indojevropejskije jazyki. Moskva, 1966, p. 342–361) \"(in Russian)\"\n\n(S. Mirzozoda, Yaɣnobī zivok, Dušanbe 1998) \"(in Tajik)\"\n\n(S. Mirzozoda, Luɣat-i yaɣnobī – tojikī, Dušanbe 2002) \"(in Tajik)\"\n\n(Ľ. Novák: Yaghnobi-Czech Dictionary with an Outline of Yaghnobi Grammar. Praha 2010) \"(in Czech)\"\n(A. L. Xromov, Jagnobskij jazyk, Moskva 1972) \"(in Russian)\"\n(A. L. Xromov, Jagnobskij jazyk. In. V. S. Rastorgujeva (ed.): Osnovy iranskogo jazykoznanija. Novoiranskije jazyki II. – Vostočnaja gruppa. Moskva 1987, p. 644–701.) \"(in Russian)\"\n\n"}
{"id": "19807186", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19807186", "title": "Zahoor Khan Mehar", "text": "Zahoor Khan Mehar\n\nZahoor Khan Mehar has written several books on the history and culture of Rajasthan.\n\n\nHe has written more than 200 essays on varied subjects pertaining to the literature, culture and history of Rajasthan published in several reputed journals, magazines and periodicals. He has edited more than a dozen research journals, commemoration volumes and souvenirs. He has also delivered more than a 100 radio talks from various stations of All India Radio.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33234761", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33234761", "title": "Zeme language", "text": "Zeme language\n\nZeme (also called Empui, Jeme, Kacha and Zemi) is a Sino-Tibetan language spoken in northeastern India. It is part of a dialect continuum that includes Rongmei and Liangmei.\n\nZeme (dialects: Paren, Njauna) is spoken in (\"Ethnologue\"):\n\nRongmei (dialects: Songbu) is spoken in 35 villages of Cachar district, Assam, as well as in northwestern Manipur and Nagaland (\"Ethnologue\").\n\nLiangmei is spoken in Jalukie, Peren, and Medzephima blocks of Kohima district, Nagaland (\"Ethnologue\").\n\nKoireng is spoken in (\"Ethnologue\"):\n\nSingh (2011:52) reports 11 Koireng villages in Saikul and Kangpokpi sub-divisions of Sadar Hills\n\nThe \"purest\" Koireng is spoken in Satu and Utonglo (\"Ethnologue\").\n\nThere are Koireng 8 clans (\"phung\"), namely Shong, Yei, Tieltu, Thamthu, Virei, Khonglung, Mreiem, and Mikan.\n"}
{"id": "35487833", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35487833", "title": "Zinza language", "text": "Zinza language\n\nZinza (Dzinda) is a Bantu language of Tanzania, spoken on the southern shore of Lake Victoria.\n"}
