{"id": "6715497", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6715497", "title": "Australian Height Datum", "text": "Australian Height Datum\n\nThe Australian Height Datum is a geodetic datum for altitude measurement in Australia. According to Geoscience Australia, \"In 1971 the mean sea level for 1966-1968 was assigned the value of 0.000m on the Australian Height Datum at thirty tide gauges around the coast of the Australian continent. The resulting datum surface, with minor modifications in two metropolitan areas, has been termed the Australian Height Datum (AHD) and was adopted by the National Mapping Council as the datum to which all vertical control for mapping (and other surveying functions) is to be referred.\"\n"}
{"id": "1222714", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1222714", "title": "Bangkok Metropolitan Region", "text": "Bangkok Metropolitan Region\n\n\"Not to be confused with Bangkok Metropolis, which is a reference to Bangkok's city limits.\"\n\nThe Bangkok Metropolitan Region (; RTGS: \"Krung Thep Mahanakhon Lae Parimonthon\"; Literally: Bangkok and surrounding provinces), may refer to a government-defined \"political definition\" of the urban region surrounding the metropolis of Bangkok, or the built-up area, i.e., urban agglomeration of Bangkok, Thailand, which varies in size and shape, and gets filled in as development expands.\n\nThe political definition is defined as the metropolis and the five adjacent provinces of Nakhon Pathom, Pathum Thani, Nonthaburi, Samut Prakan, and Samut Sakhon. The total area is 7,762 square kilometres.\n\nThe Bangkok Metropolitan Region (political definition) covers an area of 7,761.6 km².\nDue to the success of the service and tourism industry in Bangkok, the city has gained in popularity for work among provincial Thais from the rural areas and with people from many countries in the Indochina region as well as many South Asian countries. In the past 20–30 years, there has been a large influx of Indians into Thailand (especially Punjabis, Gujaratis, Tamils and Pashtuns), and also Persians, Portuguese, Khmer Krom, Mons, Chinese, as well as others emigrating to Thailand and Bangkok. There are large numbers of workers who legally reside outside the metropolitan area and travel into the city for day jobs. The population of the Bangkok metropolis (\"the city\") increases to nine million during the day, from eight million at night. The morning influx into the greater metropolitan region is not very significant, rather the influx is seasonal depending upon crop seasons in the rest of the country.\n\nHowever, during New Year's holiday, the Songkran holiday, and other long weekends, the capital often seems deserted of many taxi drivers, street vendors, and other informal service providers.\n\nBangkok has seen rapidly urbanization since its population reached two million in the 1960s. Since the 1980s, greater Bangkok's built-up areas have spilled beyond Bangkok's borders to neighboring provinces, initially to the north and south. Despite a general suburbanization trend, Bangkok remained centralized and the city core remained extremely dense until the early 2000s as heavy commuter traffic limited choices. The countryside between once independent towns and the capital became ever more filled in, with the advent and expansion of urban rail transit, as well as cheap credit enabling automobile adoption by the working class. The outward push of suburbanization has intensified as park and ride lots near train stations have sprung up.\n\nIn a manner similar to Los Angeles, Bangkok is transforming into a region where traffic flows in all directions rather than simply to the central core, as it once did. Suburbanziation has swallowed ever more fields and swamps, though even parts of Bangkok itself are not built-up. The first areas to suburbanize were in Pathum Thani, Nonthaburi, and Samut Prakan Provinces. Other areas more recently have agglomerated in Samut Sakhon and Nakhon Pathom. Samut Prakan, Nonthaburi, Pathum Thani and Samut Sakhon all have historic city centers.\n\nDue to a lack of strict zoning laws, the metropolitan areas' growth appears haphazard. Central areas like Yaowarat, Siam, Sukhumvit, and Sathorn have seen skyrocketing land speculation as foreign investors are allowed to own condominiums, giving rise to Manhattanization. At the same time, fringe areas are being developed and the boundaries are no longer visible between each provincial city center. Due to the speed of this urban sprawl over the past twenty years, the Bangkok Metropolitan Administration has sought to tackle rising problems of commute times, pollution, and deteriorating air quality. Recent administrations have been relatively successful in tackling the air quality issue, however the city still lacks an effective mass transit network outside Bangkok proper and a clean and effective plan to resolve environmental issues. This form of urbanization is not limited to Bangkok. Traces of it can be found in metropolitan areas where there has been a surge in population. The Pattaya-Chonburi Metropolitan Area is a prime example due to the increase in residential high-rise living and the rush for commercial office space. The shared infrastructure of greater Bangkok and greater Pattaya-Chonburi, being physically close, helps fuel the latter's torrid development.\n\nSources: \n\n</small>\n\nAs of 31 October 2012, some 7,384,934 vehicles were registered in the metro area, roughly one vehicle for every two persons. To alleviate the ensuing congestion, massive railway development is ongoing, but its construction is causing large scale disturbance to major thoroughfares.\n\nBangkok's last undisturbed forested zone, Bang Krachao, in Samut Prakan's Phra Pradaeng District, also known as \"the green lung\" or \"pig's stomach\" () (due to its shape) is threatened by urban sprawl, especially since a new city plan was implemented recently by Samut Prakan authorities. The plan has changed the pure green area to a \"green and white\" area, which allows residents to grow crops. Bang Krachao covers over 11,818 rai in six tambons in Phra Pradaeng.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14983686", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14983686", "title": "Brussels Geographic Conference", "text": "Brussels Geographic Conference\n\nThe Brussels Geographic Conference was held in Brussels Belgium in September 1876 at the request of King Leopold II of Belgium. At the conference were invited nearly forty well-known experts, mainly they were schooled in the geographic sciences or were wealthy philanthropists. Before the guests returned to their respective countries, they voted to establish the International African Association. This initiative would in the end pave the way for the creation of Congo Free State.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33466073", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33466073", "title": "Cassini Grid", "text": "Cassini Grid\n\nThe Cassini Grid was a grid coordinate system used on British military maps during the first half of the twentieth century, particularly during World War II. The referencing consists of square grids drawn on a Cassini projection. For a period after the war, the maps were also used by the general public. The system has been superseded by the Ordnance Survey National Grid.\n\nThe Cassini Grid system was introduced in 1927 for maps of the United Kingdom for the British military. It is so called from the use of Cassini map projection. It modified and replaced a grid coordinate system first deployed in 1919 known as the \"British System\". The Cassini Grid system is thus more properly called the Modified British System. It may also be referred to as Military Grid, War Office Grid, or Purple Grid (due to the grid colour on some issues of maps). It continued in use until some time after World War II.\n\nAfter the war, the Cassini Grid system was replaced with the Ordnance Survey National Grid (see ). However, the Cassini Grid system continued to be used to map colonial possessions into the 1960s. Hong Kong, for instance, was surveyed in 1962 for a series of 1:10,000 and 1:25,000 maps of the territory. These were published between 1965 and 1972.\n\nThe map is divided into a grid of 500 km squares. The squares covering England are Q, R, V and W with an intersection somewhere between York and Thirsk. Ireland is covered by square I, but the Irish grid is tilted slightly to the East relative to the English grid. Each 500 km square is further divided into 25 100 km squares. The 100 km squares are also given letters (with I omitted). The full designation for a grid square is the 500 km letter in lowercase followed by the 100 km letter in uppercase. For instance, the squares covering London are wL and wQ.\n\nEach 100 km square is subdivided into 10 km squares, and each of these is further subdivided into 1 km squares. These squares are numbered according to eastings and northings, that is, counting from the south-west corner of the 100 km square. For instance, the grid reference 25 76 refers to a 1 km square within the 10 km square 2 7. That is, it is two squares across and seven squares up (counting from zero) from the reference corner. Greater precision can be obtained by using six, eight, or even more digits, but always an even number with the same precision on both coordinates.\n\nThe complete grid reference includes both the grid square letters and the numerical reference giving the location within the grid square. For instance, wQ 683 825 is a location in South London. Grid references can also be given in an all numeral notation. To do this, square vV (the South-West corner of the grid out in the Atlantic) is taken as square zero and then the grid squares are counted from there to the location being referenced. For instance qY 985 613 (somewhere around Carlisle) can also be expressed as 3985 5613. This is because square qY is three 100 km squares East of square vV and five 100 km squares North of vV. However, it is frequently not necessary to explicitly give the grid square at all, this can be implied from context.\n\nThe Ordnance Survey National Grid was introduced in 1938 and the intention was to replace the Cassini Grid system with this. However, it had not become established when World War II broke out and the Cassini Grid continued in use throughout the war. Work on the National Grid maps stopped for the duration of the war. In fact, progress went backwards due to the Southampton offices of the Ordnance Survey being bombed by the Germans in 1940 destroying some of their data.\n\nNational Grid maps began to be issued after the war, but it was some time before there was full coverage. In the interim, the public were allowed to purchase War Office Cassini Grid maps. National Grid maps at 1:25,000 scale (often referred to as 2 inches to the mile, or just 2-inch maps) were not introduced until as late as 1950. Cassini Grid maps at this scale had been available, but apparently the public were discouraged from using them by the Ordnance Survey. They were poor quality, rushed into production for wartime needs, and had been produced by merely photographically reducing six-inch maps.\n\nThe long period of introduction of the National Grid resulted in National Grid and Cassini Grid maps being used side by side for an extended time. Converting between the two systems is problematic. Although the two grids are superficially similar (both use 100 km squares), different projections, baselines and origins make the conversion non-trivial. Conversion of Cassini Grid references is of interest to modern archeologists attempting to locate wartime sites and artefacts.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7080086", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7080086", "title": "Catholic Church and the Age of Discovery", "text": "Catholic Church and the Age of Discovery\n\nThe Catholic Church during the Age of Discovery inaugurated a major effort to spread Christianity in the New World and to convert the indigenous peoples of the Americas and other indigenous people. The evangelical effort was a major part of, and a justification for the military conquests of European powers such as Spain, France and Portugal. Christian Missions to the indigenous peoples ran hand-in-hand with the colonial efforts of Catholic nations. In the Americas and other colonies in Asia and Africa, most missions were run by religious orders such as the Franciscans, Dominicans, Augustinians, and Jesuits. In Mexico the early systematic evangelization by mendicants came to be known as the \"Spiritual Conquest of Mexico.\"\n\nAntonio de Montesinos, a Dominican friar on the island of Hispaniola, was the first member of the clergy to publicly denounce all forms of enslavement and oppression of the indigenous peoples of the Americas. Theologians such as Francisco de Vitoria and Bartolomé de las Casas drew up theological and philosophical bases for the defense of the human rights of the colonized native populations, thus creating the basis of international law, regulating the relationships between nations. Important contemporary ecclesiastical documents taking a strong stance on enslaving or despoiling the indigenous peoples of the Americas was the ecclesiastical letter Pastorale officium and the superseding encyclical Sublimis Deus.\n\nIn the early years most mission work was undertaken by the religious orders. Over time it was intended that a normal church structure would be established in the mission areas. The process began with the formation of special jurisdictions, known as apostolic prefectures and apostolic vicariates. These developing churches eventually graduated to regular diocesan status with the appointment of a local bishop. After decolonization, this process increased in pace as church structures altered to reflect new political-administrative realities.\n\nIn 1341, a three-ship expedition sponsored by King Afonso IV of Portugal, set out from Lisbon for the Canary Islands. The expedition spent five months mapping the islands. This expedition became the basis of Portuguese claims to the islands.\n\nIn 1344, the Castilian-French noble Luis de la Cerda (Count of Clermont and Admiral of France), and French ambassador to the papal court in Avignon, proposed to Pope Clement VI, conquering the islands and converting the native Guanches to Christianity. In November 1344, Clement VI issued the bull \"Tu devonitis sinceritas\" bestowing upon Luis de la Cerda the title of sovereign \"Prince of Fortuna\". Clement also urged the kings of Portugal and Castile to provide assistance to Cerda's expedition. The Portuguese king Afonso IV immediately lodged a protest, as did Alfonso XI of Castile. Preparations were delayed and no expedition was mounted before Cerda's death in 1348.\n\nThe raids and attacks of the Reconquista created captives on both sides, who were either ransomed or sold as slaves. During the dynastic wars of the 1370s, between Portugal and Castile, Portuguese and Castilian privateers made for the Canaries for shelter or slaving raids.\n\nIn 1415, the Portuguese captured the city of Ceuta and continued to expand their control along the coast of Morocco. Portuguese ventures were intended to compete with the Muslim trans-Sahara caravans, which held a monopoly on West African gold and ivory. In 1418 the Portuguese began with to settle the Madeira Islands, at first prized for their wood and later cane sugar. By 1427 they had reached the Azores. Portugal and Spain continued to dispute control of the Canary Islands.\n\nThe Castilian conquest of the islands began in 1402, with the expedition of Jean de Béthencourt and Gadifer de la Salle, on commission of Henry III of Castile. The expedition included two Franciscan friars. Lanzarote, and later Fuerteventura and El Hierro were occupied, and the Bishopric of the Canaries was established.\n\nIn 1434, Prince Henry of Portugal attempted to invade Gran Canaria. When a landing was repulsed by the Guanches, the native Berber inhabitants, the expedition then plundered the Castilian missions on Lanzarote and Fuerteventura. A complaint was lodged by Fernando Calvetos, the Castilian bishop of San Marcial del Rubicón in Lanzarote, supported by the archbishop of Seville. Calvetos informed the pope of the pillaging carried out by the Portuguese \"pirates\". Pope Eugene IV issued \"Regimini gregis\" on 29 September 1434, and \"Creator Omnium\", on 17 December 1434, forbidding any further raids on the Canaries and ordered the immediate manumission of all Christian converts enslaved during the attack.\n\nWhile \"Creator omnium\" was issued in response to Portuguese depredations on Castilian settlements in the Canaries, the following month Pope Eugene issued the broader \"Sicut Dudum\", indicating that Castilian slavers were not exempt and requiring that residents of the Canary Islands who had been enslaved were to be set free within fifteen days of publication of the bull upon penalty of excommunication.\n\nAccording to Stanley G. Payne, \"[T]he expansion of the faith was inextricably intertwined with military glory and economic\nprofit. Because of this it is idle to ask, as is frequently done, whether the Portuguese pioneers and Castilian conquistadores were motivated more by greed or by religious zeal. In the Hispanic crusading expansionist ideology, the two went together.\n\nWhen Islam presented a serious military threat to Italy and Central Europe during the mid-15th century, Pope Nicholas V tried to unite Christendom against them but failed. He then granted Portugal the right to subdue and even enslave Muslims, pagans and other unbelievers in the papal bull Dum Diversas (1452). The following year saw the Fall of Constantinople to Muslim invaders. Several decades later, European colonizers and missionaries spread Catholicism to the Americas, Asia, Africa and Oceania. Pope Alexander VI had awarded colonial rights over most of the newly discovered lands to Spain and Portugal. Under the \"patronato\" system, however, state authorities, not the Vatican, controlled all clerical appointments in the new colonies. Thus, the 1455 Papal Bull \"Romanus Pontifex\" granted the Portuguese all lands behind Cape Bojador and allows to reduce pagans and other enemies of Christ to perpetual slavery.\n\nLater, the 1481 Papal Bull \"Aeterni regis\" granted all lands south of the Canary Islands to Portugal, while in May 1493 the Spanish-born Pope Alexander VI decreed in the Bull \"Inter caetera\" that all lands west of a meridian only 100 leagues west of the Cape Verde Islands should belong to Spain while new lands discovered east of that line would belong to Portugal. A further Bull, \"Dudum siquidem\", made some more concessions to Spain, and the pope's arrangements were then amended by the Treaty of Tordesillas of 1494 negotiated between Spain and Portugal.\n\nAfter the discovery of the Americas, many of the clergy sent to the New World began to criticize Spain and the Church's treatment of indigenous peoples. In December 1511, Antonio de Montesinos, a Dominican friar, openly rebuked the Spanish rulers of Hispaniola for their \"cruelty and tyranny\" in dealing with the natives. King Ferdinand enacted the \"Laws of Burgos\" and \"Valladolid\" in response. However enforcement was lax, and the New Laws of 1542 took a stronger line. This caused a revolt among the Spanish colonists, and the alarmed government backed down, softening the effect of the laws. Some historians blame the Church for not doing enough to liberate the Indians; others point to the Church as the only voice raised on behalf of indigenous peoples. The issue resulted in a crisis of conscience in 16th-century Spain. The reaction of Catholic writers such as Bartolomé de Las Casas and Francisco de Vitoria led to debate on the nature of human rights and the birth of modern international law. (French, English, and Dutch reactions against the maritime monopolies granted to Portugal and Spain, meanwhile, culminated in Hugo Grotius's work articulating the doctrine of freedom of the seas.)\n\nIn 1524, Franciscan missionaries known as the Twelve Apostles of Mexico arrived in what is New Spain, followed by the Dominicans in 1526, and the Augustinians in 1533. They worked hard to convert the Indians and to provide for their well-being by establishing schools and hospitals. Because some people questioned whether the Indians were truly men who deserved baptism, Pope Paul III in the papal bull Veritas Ipsa or Sublimis Deus (1537) confirmed that the Indians were deserving men. Afterward, the conversion effort gained momentum.\n\nThe School of Salamanca, which gathered theologians such as the Dominican Francisco de Vitoria (1480–1546), and later theologians, such as the highly influential Jesuit Francisco Suárez (1548–1617), argued in favor of the existence of rights to indigenous peoples. For example, these theologians thought that it was illegitimate to conquer other peoples for religious reasons, or even to force the baptisms of non-Christian subjects. Their views on non-believers had been already established by medieval discussions of Jewish and Muslim subjects of Christian princes. Although this view was not always prevalent, it was the traditional Dominican and Thomist view, and reflected the practice of late antiquity and the early Middle Ages. However, while such theologians limited Charles V's imperial powers over colonized people, they also mentioned some legitimate reasons for the conquest. For instance, on their view, war might be justified if the indigenous people refused free transit and commerce to the Europeans; if they forced converts to return to idolatry; if there come to be a sufficient number of Christians in the newly discovered land that they wish to receive from the Pope a Christian government; if the indigenous people lacked just laws, magistrates, agricultural techniques, etc. In any case, title taken according to this principle must be exercised with Christian charity, warned Suárez, and for the advantage of the Indians. More traditional theologians legitimized the conquest while at the same time limiting the absolute power of the sovereign, which was celebrated in others parts of Europe under the developing notion of the divine right of kings.\n\nThe conquest was immediately accompanied by evangelization, and new, local forms of Catholicism appeared. The Virgin of Guadalupe is one of Mexico's oldest religious images, and is said to have appeared to Juan Diego Cuauhtlatoatzin in 1531. News of the 1534 apparition on Tepayac Hill spread quickly through Mexico; and in the seven years that followed, 1532 through 1538, the Indian people accepted the Spaniards and 8 million people were converted to the Catholic faith. Thereafter, the Aztecs no longer practiced human sacrifice or native forms of worship. In 2001 the Italian Movement of Love Saint Juan Diego was created, and launched evangelization projects in 32 states. A year later, Juan Diego was canonized by Pope John Paul II.\n\nGuadalupe is often considered a mixture of the cultures which blend to form Mexico, both racially and religiously Guadalupe is sometimes called the \"first mestiza\" or \"the first Mexican\".\n\nOne theory is that the Virgin of Guadalupe was presented to the Aztecs as a sort of \"Christianized\" Tonantzin, necessary for the clergymen to convert the indigenous people to their faith. As Jacques Lafaye wrote in \"Quetzalcoatl and Guadalupe\", \"...as the Christians built their first churches with the rubble and the columns of the ancient pagan temples, so they often borrowed pagan customs for their own cult purposes.\n\nSuch Virgins appeared in most of the other evangelized countries, mixing Catholicism with the local customs. The Basilica of Our Lady of Copacabana was built in Bolivia, near the \"Isla del Sol\" where the Sun God was believed to be born, in the 16th century, to commemorate the apparition of the Virgin of Copacabana; in Cuba the Virgin named \"Caridad del Cobre\" was allegedly seen in the beginning of the 16th century, a case consigned in the \"Archivo General de Indias\"; in Brazil Our Lady of Aparecida was declared in 1929 official Patron Saint of the country by Pope Pius XI; Our Lady of Luján in Argentina; \"La Negrita\" in Costa Rica...\n\nThe first attempt by Jesuits to reach China was made in 1552 by St. Francis Xavier, Navarrese priest and missionary and founding member of the Society. Xavier, however, died the same year on the Chinese island of Shangchuan, without having reached the mainland. Three decades later, in 1582, led by several figures including the prominent Italian Matteo Ricci, Jesuits once again initiated mission work in China, ultimately introducing Western science, mathematics, astronomy, and visual arts to the imperial court, and carrying on significant inter-cultural and philosophical dialogue with Chinese scholars, particularly representatives of Confucianism. At the time of their peak influence, members of the Jesuit delegation were considered some of the emperor's most valued and trusted advisors, holding numerous prestigious posts in the imperial government. Many Chinese, including notable former Confucian scholars, adopted Christianity and became priests and members of the Society of Jesus.\n\nBetween the 18th and mid-19th century, nearly all Western missionaries in China were forced to conduct their teaching and other activities covertly.\n\nElsewhere, Jesuit missionary Francis Xavier introduced Christianity to Japan. By the end of the 16th century tens of thousands of Japanese followed Roman Catholicism. Church growth came to a halt in 1597 under the Shogun Tokugawa Iemitsu who, in an effort to isolate the country from foreign influences, launched a severe persecution of Christians. Japanese were forbidden to leave the country and Europeans were forbidden to enter. Despite this, a minority Christian population survived into the 19th century.\nIn South America, the Jesuits protected native peoples from enslavement by establishing semi-independent settlements called reductions. Pope Gregory XVI, challenging Spanish and Portuguese sovereignty, appointed his own candidates as bishops in the colonies, condemned slavery and the slave trade in 1839 (papal bull \"In supremo apostolatus\"), and approved the ordination of native clergy in spite of government racism.\n\nMany buildings erected by the Jesuits still stand, such as the Cathedral of Saint Paul in Macau and the Santísima Trinidad de Paraná in Paraguay, an example of a Jesuit Reduction.\n\nIn Las Californias Province of New Spain in the Americas, the Catholic Church expanded its missions in cooperation with the Spanish government and military to settle present day California and protect it from Imperial Russian and British colonial advances. Junípero Serra, the Franciscan priest in charge of this effort, founded a series of mission stations which became economic, political, and religious institutions. These missions brought grain, cattle, and a changed homeland for the California Native Americans. They had no immunity to European diseases, with subsequent indigenous tribal population falls. However, by bringing Western civilization to the area, these missions and the Spanish government have been held responsible for wiping out nearly a third of the native population, primarily through disease. Overland routes were established from New Spain (Mexico) that resulted in the establishment of a mission and presidio (fort) — now San Francisco (1776), and a pueblo (town) — now Los Angeles (1781).\n\nThe French colonial effort began later than that of the Spanish or Portuguese.\nUnder the rule of Kaahumanu the newly converted Protestant widow of Kamehameha the Great, Catholicism was illegal in Hawaii and chiefs loyal to her forcibly deported French priests onto the \"Artemise\". Native Hawaiian Catholic converts were imprisoned and Protestant ministers ordered them to be tortured. The prejudice against the French Catholics missionaries remained the same under the reign of her successor, the Kuhina Nui Ka'ahumanu II.\nIn 1839 Captain Laplace of the French frigate \"Artémise\" sailed to Hawaii under orders to:\n...destroy the malevolent impression which you find established to the detriment of the French name; to rectify the erroneous opinion which has been created as to the power of France; and to make it well understood that it would be to the advantage of the chiefs of those islands of the Ocean to conduct themselves in such a manner as not to incur the wrath of France. You will exact, if necessary with all the force that is yours to use, complete reparation for the wrongs which have been committed, and you will not quit those places until you have left in all minds a solid and lasting impression.\n\nDecolonization in Central and South America began with the revolutions in the 1820s, with all countries becoming independent then, except Puerto Rico and Cuba in 1898. Leaders were inspired by the American Revolution and the French Revolution of the late 18th century.\n\nIn the late 18th and early 19th centuries, the Roman Catholic Church experienced unique difficulties within the United States of America. \"Unlike all Protestant churches in America, the Roman Catholic church depended for its identity upon keeping doctrinal and administrative unity with a European-based authority.\" The papacy was cautious of the freedom found in the United States as it showed similarities to the attitudes behind the French Revolution. The papacy wanted to preserve the hierarchy of the church in America. At this time, Catholics were chiefly located in Pennsylvania and Maryland and were greatly influenced by their Protestant neighbors. They, too, wanted a church that empowered the laity. In 1788 James Carroll was elected the first Bishop of the United States. He struggled to balance the desires of the US trustees to adapt and empower the laity and hold church property with the requests of the bishops and hierarchy oversees to preserve the doctrine. This controversy ran from approximately 1780 to 1850. In the end, the power and authority were too differential and the bishops won. This marked the creation of the \"American Catholic Church with the laity subordinate to priest and bishop.\" This system remained until the mid-20th century.\n\nIn the early-to-mid-19th century, schools in the United States were greatly influenced by Protestantism. This created difficulties with American Catholics. They challenged the singing of Protestant hymns and reading of the King James Bible in the classroom. Some school boards made changes to be more non-denominational. Tensions were great during this time period as Americans were already fearful of immigration and Catholics. After a number of struggles, for a variety of reasons, American Catholics began creating their own schools in the 1840s. Archbishop at the time, John Hughes, insisted that Catholic Education was the primary way to preserve proper Christian teaching. He cited education at a young age promoted the reason and experience necessary for a strong religious background. He called American Catholics \"to multiply our schools, and to perfect them.\" By 1852 the bishops recommended \"catholic children should attend only schools that were under church control.\"\n\nThe Catholic faith also became integrated in the industrial and post-industrial middle class as it developed, in particular through the lay movements created following the 1891 \"Rerum novarum\" encyclical enacted by Pope Leo XIII, and which insisted on the social role of the Roman Catholic Church. New ceremonies appeared throughout the 20th century, such as Fidencio Constantino Sintora (known as the \"Niño Fidencio\") (1898–1938) in Mexico, the Santa Muerte in Mexico (who has been attacked by the Catholic Church as being a pagan figure) or Difunta Correa in Argentina. The latter's pilgrimage site was visited by 700 000 persons in 2005.\n\nMuch Catholic missionary work has undergone a profound change since the Second Vatican Council (1962–65), and has become explicitly conscious of the dangers of cultural imperialism or economic exploitation. Contemporary Christian missionaries try to observe the principles of inculturation in their missionary work. In the 1970s, the Jesuits would become a main proponent of the liberation theology which openly supported anti-imperialist movements. It was officially condemned in 1984 and in 1986 by then-Cardinal Ratzinger (later Pope Benedict XVI) as the head of the Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith, under charges of Marxist tendencies, while Leonardo Boff was suspended.\nProselytism has continued however throughout the 20th century, with Latin America accounting for the largest Catholic population in the world. But since the 1960s-70s, Protestant evangelism and new religious movements have begun to strongly compete with Catholicism in South America, while various approaches to evangelism have been developed . In response, the Pope John Paul II made frequent travels to this continent, visiting among other countries Chile during Pinochet's rule. He also supported Catholic Charismatic Renewal movements against rival Charismatic movements, and groups such as the \"Neocatechumenal Way\" (which has close to 20,000 communities in Latin America and 600,000 members alone), \"Focolari\", \"Comunione e Liberazione\" or the Opus Dei, which are main vectors of Roman Catholicism in the region. In the 1990 encyclical \"Redemptoris Missio\" (subtitled \"On the permanent validity of the Church's missionary mandate\"), John Paul II stressed \"the urgency of missionary activity\" and in which he wished \"to invite the Church to renew her missionary commitment.\"\nAfter a journey among the Bari in South America, the ethnologist Robert Jaulin called for a convention on ethnocide in the Americas at the Congress of Americanists, and, in February 1970, the French Society of Americanists convened for that purpose. Jaulin criticized in particular the role of Christian missionaries towards non-Western cultures.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18287344", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18287344", "title": "Degrowth", "text": "Degrowth\n\nDegrowth () is a political, economic, and social movement based on ecological economics, anti-consumerist and anti-capitalist ideas. It is also considered an essential economic strategy responding to the limits-to-growth dilemma (see \"The Path to Degrowth in Overdeveloped Countries\" and post-growth). Degrowth thinkers and activists advocate for the downscaling of production and consumption—the contraction of economies—arguing that overconsumption lies at the root of long term environmental issues and social inequalities. Key to the concept of degrowth is that reducing consumption does not require individual martyring or a decrease in well-being. Rather, \"degrowthers\" aim to maximize happiness and well-being through non-consumptive means—sharing work, consuming less, while devoting more time to art, music, family, nature, culture and community.\n\nThe movement arose from concerns over the perceived\nconsequences of the productivism and consumerism\nassociated with industrial societies (whether\ncapitalist or socialist) including:\n\nAs economies grow, the need for resources grows accordingly (unless there are changes in efficiency or demand for different products due to price changes). There is a fixed supply of non-renewable resources, such as petroleum (oil), and these resources will inevitably be depleted. Renewable resources can also be depleted if extracted at unsustainable rates over extended periods. For example, this has occurred with caviar production in the Caspian Sea. There is much concern as to how growing demand for these resources will be met as supplies decrease. Many organizations and governments look to energy technologies such as biofuels, solar cells, and wind turbines to meet the demand gap after peak oil. Others have argued that none of the alternatives could effectively replace versatility and portability of oil. Authors of the book \"Techno-Fix\" criticize technological optimists for overlooking the limitations of technology in solving agricultural and social challenges arising from growth.\n\nProponents of degrowth argue that decreasing demand is the only way of permanently closing the demand gap. For renewable resources, demand, and therefore production, must also be brought down to levels that prevent depletion and are environmentally healthy. Moving toward a society that is not dependent on oil is seen as essential to avoiding societal collapse when non-renewable resources are depleted.\n\nThe ecological footprint is a measure of human demand on the Earth's ecosystems. It compares human demand with planet Earth's ecological capacity to regenerate. It represents the amount of biologically productive land and sea area needed to regenerate the resources a human \npopulation consumes and to absorb and render harmless the corresponding waste.\nAccording to a 2005 Global Footprint Network report, inhabitants of high-income countries live off of 6.4 global hectares (gHa), while those from low-income countries live off of a single gHa. For example, while each inhabitant of \nBangladesh lives off of what they produce from 0.56 gHa, a North American requires 12.5 gHa. Each inhabitant of North America uses 22.3 times as much land as a Bangladeshi. According to the same report, the average number of global hectares per person was 2.1, \nwhile current consumption levels have reached 2.7 hectares per person. In order for the world's population to attain the living standards typical of European countries, the resources of between three and eight planet Earths would be required with current levels of efficiency and means of production. In order for world economic equality to be achieved with the current available resources, proponents say rich countries would have to reduce their standard of living through degrowth. The constraints on resources would eventually lead to a forced reduction in consumption. Controlled reduction of consumption would \nreduce the trauma of this change assuming no technological changes increase the planet's carrying capacity.\n\nDegrowth thought is in opposition to all forms of productivism (the belief that economic productivity and growth is the purpose of human organization). It is, thus, opposed to the current form of sustainable development. While the concern for \nsustainability does not contradict degrowth, sustainable development is rooted in mainstream development ideas that aim to increase capitalist growth and consumption. Degrowth therefore sees sustainable development as an oxymoron, as any development based on growth in a finite and environmentally stressed world is seen as inherently unsustainable. \nCritics of degrowth argue that a slowing of economic growth would result in increased unemployment, increase poverty and decrease income per capita. Many who understand the devastating environmental consequences of growth still advocate for economic growth in the South, even if not in the North. But, a slowing of economic growth would fail to deliver the benefits of degrowth—self-sufficiency, material responsibility—and would indeed lead to decreased \nemployment. Rather, degrowth proponents advocate for a complete abandonment of the current (growth) economic system, suggesting that relocalizing and abandoning the global economy in the Global South would allow people of the South to become more self-sufficient and would end the overconsumption and exploitation of Southern resources by the North.\n\nTechnologies designed to reduce resource use and improve efficiency are often touted as sustainable or green solutions. Degrowth literature, however, warns about these technological advances due to the \"rebound effect\". This concept is based on observations that when a less resource-exhaustive technology is introduced, behaviour surrounding the use of that technology may change, and consumption of that technology could increase or even offset any potential resource savings. In light of the rebound effect, proponents of degrowth hold that the only effective 'sustainable' solutions must involve a complete rejection of the growth paradigm and a move toward a degrowth paradigm. There are also fundamental limits to technological solutions in the pursuit of degrowth, as all engagements with technology increase the cumulutive matter-energy throughput. However, the convergence of digital commons of knowledge and design with distributed manufacturing technologies may arguably hold potential for building degrowth future scenarios.\n\nThe contemporary degrowth movement can trace its roots back to the anti-industrialist trends of the 19th century, developed in Great Britain by John Ruskin, William Morris and the Arts and Crafts movement (1819–1900), in the United States by Henry David Thoreau (1817–1862), and in Russia by Leo Tolstoy (1828–1910).\n\nThe concept of \"degrowth\" proper appeared during the 1970s, proposed by André Gorz (1972) and intellectuals such as Nicholas Georgescu-Roegen, Jean Baudrillard, Edward Goldsmith and Ivan Illich, whose ideas reflect those of earlier thinkers, such as the economist E. J. Mishan, the industrial historian Tom Rolt, and the radical socialist Tony Turner. The writings of Mahatma Gandhi and J. C. Kumarappa also contain similar philosophies, particularly regarding his support of voluntary simplicity.\n\nMore generally, degrowth movements draw on the values of humanism, enlightenment, anthropology and human rights.\n\nIn 1968, the Club of Rome, a think tank headquartered in Winterthur, Switzerland, asked researchers at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology for a report on practical solutions to problems of global concern. The report, called \"The Limits to Growth\", published in 1972, became the first important study that indicated the ecological perils of the unprecedented economic growth the world was experiencing at the time.\n\nThe reports (also known as the Meadows Reports) are not strictly the founding texts of the degrowth movement, as these reports only advise zero growth, and have also been used to support the sustainable development movement. Still, they are considered the first official studies explicitly presenting economic growth as a key reason for the increase in global environmental problems such as pollution, shortage of raw materials, and the destruction of ecosystems. A second report was published in 1974, and together with the first, drew considerable attention to the topic.\n\nThe degrowth movement recognises Romanian American mathematician, statistician and economist Nicholas Georgescu-Roegen as the main intellectual figure inspiring the movement. In his magnum opus on \"The Entropy Law and the Economic Process\", Georgescu-Roegen argues that economic scarcity is rooted in physical reality; that all natural resources are irreversibly degraded when put to use in economic activity; that the carrying capacity of Earth—that is, Earth's capacity to sustain human populations and consumption levels—is bound to decrease sometime in the future as Earth's finite stock of mineral resources is presently being extracted and put to use; and consequently, that the world economy as a whole is heading towards an inevitable future collapse.\n\nGeorgescu-Roegen's intellectual inspiration to degrowth goes back to the 1970s. When Georgescu-Roegen delivered a lecture at the University of Geneva in 1974, he made a lasting impression on the young and newly graduated French historian and philosopher , who had earlier been introduced to Georgescu-Roegen's magnum opus by an academic advisor. Georgescu-Roegen and Grinevald soon made friends, and Grinevald started devoting his research to a closer study of Georgescu-Roegen's work. As a result, in 1979 Grinevald published a French translation of a selection of Georgescu-Roegen's articles entitled \"Demain la décroissance: Entropie – Écologie – Économie\" ('Tomorrow, the Decline: Entropy – Ecology – Economy'). Georgescu-Roegen, who spoke French fluently, personally approved the use of the term \"décroissance\" in the title of the French translation. The book gained influence in French intellectual and academic circles from the outset. Later, the book was expanded and republished in 1995, and once again in 2006; however, the word \"Demain\" ('Tomorrow') was removed from the title of the book in these second and third editions. \n\nBy the time Grinevald suggested the term \"décroissance\" to form part of the title of the French translation of Georgescu-Roegen's work, this term had already disseminated through French intellectual circles since the early 1970s to signify a deliberate political action to downscale the economy on a permanent and voluntary basis. Simultaneously, but independently hereof, Georgescu-Roegen had criticised the ideas of \"The Limits to Growth\" and Herman Daly's steady-state economy in his pointed and polemical article on \"Energy and Economic Myths\", delivered as a series of lectures from 1972 and onwards at various places, but not published in print before 1975. In this article, Georgescu-Roegen stated the following view:\n\nWhen reading this particular passage of the text, Grinevald realised that no professional economist of any orientation had ever reasoned like this before. Grinevald also realised the striking conceptual resemblance between Georgescu-Roegen's viewpoint and the French debates progressing by the time; this resemblance then transformed into the title of the French edition. Taken together, the translation of Georgescu-Roegen's work into French \"both\" fed on \"and\" gave further impetus to the concept of \"décroissance\" in the country—and everywhere else in the francophone world—thereby creating something of an intellectual feedback loop. \n\nBy the 2000s, when \"décroissance\" was to be translated from French and back into English as the catchy banner for the new social movement, the original term 'decline' was now deemed inappropriate and misdirected for the purpose: 'Decline' usually refers to an unexpected, unwelcome and temporary economic recession, something bad to be avoided or quickly overcome. Instead, the neologism 'degrowth' was coined to signify a deliberate political action to downscale the economy on a permanent and voluntary basis—as in the prevailing French usage of the term—something good to be welcomed and maintained, or so followers believe. \n\nWhen the first international degrowth conference of its kind was held in Paris in 2008, the participants bestowed a generous amount of credit and appreciation on Georgescu-Roegen and his work. Further, in his manifesto on \"Petit traité de la décroissance sereine\" ('Farewell to Growth'), leading French champion of the degrowth movement Serge Latouche has credited Georgescu-Roegen as 'a main theoretical source of degrowth.' Likewise, Italian degrowth theorist Mauro Bonaiuti has considered Georgescu-Roegen's work to be 'one of the analytical cornerstones of the degrowth perspective.'\n\nSerge Latouche, a professor of economics at the University of Paris-Sud, has noted that:\n\nE. F. Schumacher's 1973 book \"Small Is Beautiful\" predates a unified degrowth movement, but nonetheless serves as an important basis for degrowth ideas. In this book he critiques the neo-liberal model of economic development, arguing that an increasing \"standard of living\", based on consumption, is absurd as a goal of economic activity and development. Instead, under what he refers to as Buddhist economics, we should aim to maximize well-being while minimizing consumption.\n\nIn January 1972 Edward Goldsmith and Robert Prescott-Allen—editors of \"The Ecologist\" journal—published \"A Blueprint for Survival\", which called for a radical programme of decentralisation and deindustrialization to prevent what the authors referred to as \"the breakdown of society and the irreversible disruption of the life-support systems on this planet\".\n\nThe movement has also included international conferences, promoted by the network Research&Degrowth (R&D), in Paris (2008), Barcelona (2010), Montreal (2012), Venice (2012), Leipzig (2014), Budapest (2016), and Malmö (2018).\n\nThe First International Conference on Economic Degrowth for Ecological Sustainability and Social Equity of Paris (2008) was a discussion about the financial, social, cultural, demographic, environmental crisis caused by the deficiencies of capitalism and an explanation of the main principles of the degrowth. The Second International Conference of Barcelona on the other hand focused on specific ways to implement a degrowth society.\n\nConcrete proposals have been developed for future political actions, including:\n\nIn spite of the real willingness of reform and the development of numerous solutions, the conference of Barcelona didn’t have a big influence on the world economic and political system. Many critiques have been made concerning the proposals, mostly about the financial aspects, and this has refrained changes to occur.\n\nAlthough not explicitly called Degrowth, movements using similar concepts and terminologies can be found around the world, such as Buen Vivir in Latin America or Eco-Swaraj in India.\n\nThe degrowth movement has a variety of relations to other social movements and alternative economic visions, which range from collaboration to partial overlap. The Konzeptwerk Neue Ökonomie (Laboratory for New Economic Ideas), which hosted the 2014 international Degrowth conference in Leipzig, has published a project entitled “Degrowth in movement(s)” in 2017, which maps relationships with 32 other social movements and initiatives.\n\nMarxists distinguish between two types of growth: that which is useful to mankind, and that which simply exists to increase profits for companies. Marxists consider that it is the nature and control of production that is the determinant, and not the quantity. They believe that control and a strategy for growth are the pillars that enable social and economic development. According to Jean Zin, while the justification for degrowth is valid, it is not a solution to the problem.\nHowever, other Marxist writers have adopted positions close to the de-growth perspective. For example, John Bellamy Foster and Fred Magdoff, in common with David Harvey, Immanuel Wallerstein, Paul Sweezy and others focus on endless capital accumulation as the basic principle and goal of capitalism. This is the source of economic growth and, in the view of these writers, is unsustainable. Foster and Magdoff develop Marx's own concept of the metabolic rift, something he noted in the exhaustion of soils by capitalist systems of food production, though this is not unique to capitalist systems of food production as seen in the Aral Sea.\n\nIn stressing the negative rather than the positive side(s) of growth, the majority of degrowth proponents remains focused on (de-)growth, thus co-performing and further sustaining the actually criticised unsustainable growth obsession. One way out of this paradox might be in changing the reductionist vision of growth as ultimately economic concept, which proponents of both growth and degrowth commonly imply, for a broader concept of growth that allows for the observation of growth in other function systems of society. A corresponding recoding of growth-obsessed or capitalist organisations has recently been proposed.\n\n"}
{"id": "5134026", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5134026", "title": "Dene (valley)", "text": "Dene (valley)\n\nA dene, derived from the Old English \"denu\" and frequently spelled dean, used to be a common name for a valley, in which sense it is frequently found as a component of English place-names, such as Rottingdean and Ovingdean.\n\nIn the English counties of Durham and Northumberland a dene is a steep-sided wooded valley through which a burn runs. Many of the incised valleys cut by small streams that flow off the Durham and Northumberland plateau into the North Sea are given the name Dene, as in Castle Eden Dene and Crimdon Dene in Durham and Jesmond Dene in Tyne and Wear.\n\n"}
{"id": "7297180", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7297180", "title": "Digital Earth", "text": "Digital Earth\n\nDigital Earth is the name given to a concept by former US vice president Al Gore in 1998, describing a virtual representation of the Earth that is georeferenced and connected to the world’s digital knowledge archives.\n\nIn a speech prepared for the California Science Center in Los Angeles on January 31, 1998, Gore described a digital future where schoolchildren - indeed all the world's citizens - could interact with a computer-generated three-dimensional spinning virtual globe and access vast amounts of scientific and cultural information to help them understand the Earth and its human activities. The greater part of this knowledge store would be free to all via the Internet, however a commercial marketplace of related products and services was envisioned to co-exist, in part in order to support the expensive infrastructure such a system would require. The origin of the idea can be traced back to Buckminster Fuller's Geoscope, a large spherical display to represent geographic phenomena.\n\nMany aspects of his proposal have been realized - for instance, virtual globe geo-browsers such as NASA World Wind, Google Earth and Microsoft's Bing Maps 3D for commercial, social and scientific applications. But the Gore speech outlined a truly global, collaborative linking of systems that has yet to happen. That vision has been continually interpreted and defined by the growing global community of interest described below. The Digital Earth imagined in the speech has been defined as an \"organizing vision\" to steer scientists and technologists towards a shared goal, promising substantial advances in many scientific and engineering areas, similar to the Information superhighway.\n\nTwo noteworthy excerpts from the Beijing Declaration on Digital Earth, ratified September 12, 2009 at the 6th International Symposium on Digital Earth in Beijing:\n\nA group of international geographic and environmental scientists from government, industry, and academia brought together by the Vespucci Initiative for the Advancement of Geographic Information Science, and the Joint Research Centre of the European Commission recently published \"Next-Generation Digital Earth\" a position paper that suggests its eight key elements:\n\n\nSignificant progress towards Digital Earth has been achieved over the last decade as collected in a survey paper by Mahdavi-Amiri et al., including work in these categories:\n\nThe number of Spatial Data Infrastructures has grown steadily since the early 1990s, aided in part by interoperability standards maintained by the Open Geospatial Consortium and the International Organization for Standardization (ISO). Significant recent efforts to link and coordinate SDI's include Infrastructure for Spatial Information in Europe (INSPIRE) and the UNSDI Initiative of the UN Geographic Information Working Group (UNIGWG). Between 1998 and 2001, the NASA-chaired Interagency Digital Earth Working Group (IDEW) contributed to this growth with a particular focus on interoperability issues, giving rise to the Web Map Service standard among others.\n\nThe scientific use of geo-browser virtual globes such as Google Earth, NASA's World Wind, and ESRI's ArcGIS Explorer has grown significantly as their functionality has improved and with the KML format having become the de facto standard for globe visualizations. Numerous examples can be viewed at the Google Earth Outreach Showcase and at the World Wind Java Demo Applications and Applets.\n\nGeosensors are defined as \"...any device receiving and measuring environmental stimuli that can be geographically referenced.\" Large scale networks of geosensors have been in place for many years, measuring Earth surface, hydrological and atmospheric phenomena. The advent of the Internet led to a large expansion of such networks, and efforts like Global Earth Observation System of Systems (GEOSS) Initiative aim to connect them.\n\nThe term Volunteered Geographic Information was coined in 2007 by geographer Michael Goodchild, referring to the rapidly growing volume of social and scientific georeferenced user-generated content being made available on the Web by both expert and non-expert individuals and groups. This phenomenon is seen as an emerging Geoweb that provides Application Programming Interfaces (API's) to software developers and increasingly user-friendly web mapping software to both scientists and the public at large.\n\nThere have been seven ISDE symposia and three Digital Earth Summits. Proceedings for many of them are available. The 7th Symposium was held in Perth, Western Australia in 2011. \nThe 4th Digital Earth Summit was held in Wellington, New Zealand in September, 2012.\n\nThe International Journal of Digital Earth is a peer-reviewed research journal, launched in 2008, concerned with the science and technology of Digital Earth and its applications in all major disciplines.\n\nThis is a non-political, non-governmental and not-for-profit international organization, principally for promotion of academic exchange, science and technology innovation, education, and international collaboration.\n\nThe term Digital Earth Reference Model (DERM) was coined by Tim Foresman in context with a vision for an all encompassing geospatial platform as an abstract for information flow in support of Al Gore’s vision for a Digital Earth. The Digital Earth reference model seeks to facilitate and promote the use of georeferenced information from multiple sources over the Internet. \nA digital Earth reference model defines a fixed global reference frame for the Earth using four principles of a digital system, namely:\n\nThe Open Geospatial Consortium has a spatial reference system standard based on the DERM called a [Discrete Global Grid] System (DGGS). According to OGC \"a DGGS is a spatial reference system that uses a hierarchical tessellation of cells to partition and address the globe. DGGS are characterized by the properties of their cell structure, geo-encoding, quantization strategy and associated mathematical functions. The OGC DGGS standard supports the specification of standardized DGGS infrastructures that enable the integrated analysis of very large, multi-source, multi-resolution, multi-dimensional, distributed geospatial data. Interoperability between OGC DGGS implementations is anticipated through extension interface encodings of OGC Web Services.\". Thus, the DGGS is a discrete, hierarchical, information grid with an addressing (or indexing) scheme to assign unique addresses to each cell across the entire DGGS Domain. \n\nTechnology developments that support the current Digital Earth technological framework can be traced to U.S. computing advances derived from the Cold War competition, the space race, and commercial innovations. Therefore, many innovations can be tracked to corporations working for the Department of Defense or NASA. However, the philosophical foundations for Digital Earth can be more closely aligned with the increased awareness of global changes and the need to better understand the concepts of sustainability for the planet’s survival. These roots can be traced back to visionaries such as Buckminster Fuller who proposed development of a GeoScope half a century ago, analogous to a microscope to examine and improve our understanding of the planet Earth.\n\nFrom Fall 1998 until Fall 2000, NASA led the U.S. Digital Earth initiative in cooperation with its sister government agencies, including the Federal Geospatial Data Committee (FGDC). Attention to consensus development of standards, protocols and tools through cooperative test-bed initiatives was the primary process for advancement of this initiative within the government community.\n\nIn 1999, NASA was selected to head a new Interagency Digital Earth Working Group (IDEW), due to its reputation for technology innovations and its focus on the study of planetary change. The new initiative was located in the NASA’s Office of Earth Sciences. This titular focus was considered necessary to help align over 17 government agencies and keep sustainability and Earth oriented applications as a guiding principle for the Digital Earth enterprise. Components for development of 3-D Earth graphic-user-interfaces (GUIs) were placed into various technological sectors to stimulate cooperative development support. While initially limited to government personnel, industry and academia were early observers attending IDEW workshops to discuss topics such as, visualization, information fusion, standards and interoperability, advanced computational algorithms, digital libraries and museums. In March 2000, at a special IDEW meeting hosted by Oracle Corporation in Herndon, Virginia, industry representatives demonstrated several promising 3-D visualization prototypes. Within two years, these were captivating international audiences, including Kofi Annan and Colin Powell, in government, business, science, and mass media who began to purchase the early commercial geo-browsers. Just as the spectacular Apollo photography of Earthrise provided an inspiring Earth-centric image for new generations to appreciate the fragility of our biosphere, the 3-D Digital Earths began inspiring growing numbers of people to the possibility of better understanding and possibly saving our planet. Introduction of satellite data into commercially accessible spatial toolboxes significantly advanced the capacity to map, monitor, and manage our planet’s resources and provide a unifying perspective on the Digital Earth vision.\n\nAfter Al Gore lost the 2000 presidential election, the incoming administration considered the programmatic moniker Digital Earth a political liability. Digital Earth was relegated to a minority status within the FGDC, used primarily to define 3-D visualization reference models.\n\nIn 1999, with the Chinese government’s full backing, the inaugural International Symposium on Digital Earth in Beijing provided a venue for the extensive international support for implementing the Gore Digital Earth vision introduced a year earlier. Hundreds of digital earth cities created by governments and universities resulted. In China, Digital Earth became a metaphor for modernization and automation with computers, leading to its incorporation into a five-year modernization plan. Originating from China’s satellite remote sensing community, Digital Earth prowess spread to a range of applications including flood predictions, dust cloud modeling, environmental assessments, and city planning. China has been omnipresent at all international Digital Earth conferences since and has recently founded the International Society for Digital Earth, one of the first NGOs created by the Chinese Academy of Sciences. In 2009, the International Symposium on Digital Earth returned to Beijing for its 6th meeting.\n\nIn 2000, the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) advanced the Digital Earth to enhance decision-makers' access to information for then Secretary-General Kofi Annan and the United Nations Security Council. UNEP promoted use of web-based geospatial technologies with the ability to access the world’s environmental information, in association with economic and social policy issues. A reorganization of UNEP’s data and information resources was initiated in 2001, based on the GSDI/DE architecture for a network of distributed and interoperable databases creating a framework of linked servers. The design concept was based upon using a growing network of internet mapping software and database content with advanced capabilities to link GIS tools and applications. UNEP.net, launched in February 2001, provided UN staff with an unparalleled facility for accessing authoritative environmental data resources and a visible example to others in the UN community. However, a universal user interface for UNEP.net, suitable for members of Security Council, that is non-scientists, did not exist. UNEP began actively testing prototypes for a UNEP geo-browser beginning in mid-2001 with a showcase for the African community displayed at the 5th African GIS Conference in Nairobi, Kenya November 2001. Keyhole Technology, Inc. (later purchased in 2004 by Google and to become Google Earth) was contracted to develop and demonstrate the first full globe 3-D interactive Digital Earth using web-stream data from a distributed database located on servers around the planet. A concerted effort within the UN community, via the Geographic Information Working Group (UNGIWG), followed immediately, including purchase of early Keyhole systems by 2002. UNEP provided further public demonstrations for this early Digital Earth system at the World Summit on Sustainable Development in September, 2002 at Johannesburg, South Africa. In seeking an engineering approach to system-wide development of the Digital Earth model, recommendations were made at the 3rd UNGIWG Meeting, June 2002, Washington, D.C. for creating a document on the Functional User Requirements for geo-browsers. This proposal was communicated to the ISDE Secretariat in Beijing and the organizing committee for the 3rd International Symposium on Digital Earth and agreement was reached by the Chinese Academy of Sciences-sponsored Secretariat to host the first of the two Digital Earth geo-browser meetings.\n\nJapan, led by Keio University and JAXA, has also played a prominent international role in Digital Earth helping to create the Digital Asia Network with a secretariat located in Bangkok to promote regional cooperation and initiatives. Citizens in the Gifu Prefecture upload information to community-scale Digital Earth programs with from their smartphones on topics ranging from first sightings of fireflies in spring to location of blocked handicap access ramps.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5298380", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5298380", "title": "Drift station", "text": "Drift station\n\nA drift station is a temporary or semi-permanent facility built on an ice floe. During the Cold War the Soviet Union and the United States maintained a number of stations in the Arctic Ocean on floes such as Fletcher's Ice Island for research and espionage, the latter of which were often little more than quickly constructed shacks. Extracting personnel from these stations proved difficult and in the case of the United States, employed early versions of the Fulton surface-to-air recovery system.\n\n"}
{"id": "20730674", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20730674", "title": "Dynjandi", "text": "Dynjandi\n\nDynjandi (also known as Fjallfoss) is a series of waterfalls located in the Westfjords (Vestfirðir), Iceland. The waterfalls have a total height of .\n"}
{"id": "10442303", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10442303", "title": "Etymology of Edinburgh", "text": "Etymology of Edinburgh\n\nThe etymology of Edinburgh traces the origin of the name of Edinburgh, the capital of Scotland. The city is known as \"Edinburgh\" in English, \"Embra\" in Scots, and \"Dùn Èideann\" in Scottish Gaelic, which are derived from the older place name \"Eidyn\". It is generally accepted that this name derives ultimately from the Celtic Common Brittonic language.\n\nSeveral medieval Welsh sources refer to \"Eidyn\". Kenneth H. Jackson argued strongly that \"Eidyn\" referred exclusively to the location of modern Edinburgh, but others, such as Ifor Williams and Nora K. Chadwick, suggest it applied to the wider area as well. The name \"Eidyn\" may survive today in toponyms such as Edinburgh, Dunedin, and Carriden (from \"Caer Eidyn\", from which the modern Welsh name for Edinburgh, \"\", is derived), located eighteen miles to the west.\n\nPresent-day Edinburgh was the location of \"Din Eidyn\", a dun or hillfort associated with the kingdom of the Gododdin. The term \"Din Eidyn\" first appears in \"Y Gododdin\", a poem that depicts events relating to the Battle of Catraeth, thought to have been fought circa 600. The oldest manuscript of \"Y Gododdin\" forms part of the Book of Aneirin, which dates to around 1265 but which possibly is a copy of a lost 9th-century original. Some scholars consider that the poem was composed soon after the battle and was preserved in oral tradition while others believe it originated in Wales at some time in the 9th to 11th centuries. The modern Scottish Gaelic name \"Dùn Èideann\" derives directly from the British \"Din Eidyn\". The English form is similar, appending the element -\"burgh\", from the Old English \"burh\", also meaning \"fort\".\n\nSome sources claim Edinburgh's name is derived from an Old English form such as \"Edwinesburh\" (Edwin's fort), in reference to Edwin, king of Deira and Bernicia in the 7th century. However, modern scholarship refutes this, as the form \"Eidyn\" predates Edwin. Stuart Harris in his book \"The Place Names of Edinburgh\" declares the \"Edwinesburh\" form to be a \"palpable fake\" dating from King David I's time.\n\nEdinburgh's original royal charter granting royal burgh status is lost and the first documentary evidence of the medieval burgh is a royal charter, , by King David I granting a toft in to the Priory of Dunfermline. This suggests that the town came into official existence between 1018 (when King Malcolm II secured the Lothians from the Northumbrians) and 1124. The founding charter of Holyrood Abbey refers to the recipients (in Latin) as \"Ecclisie Sancte Crucis \"Edwin\"esburgensi\", by the 1170s King William the Lion was using the name \"Edenesburch\" in a charter (again in Latin) confirming the 1124 grant of David I. Documents from the 14th century show the name to have settled into its current form; although other spellings (\"Edynburgh\" and \"Edynburghe\") appear, these are simply spelling variants of the current name.\n\nThe city is affectionately nicknamed \"Auld Reekie\", Scots for \"Old Smoky\", for the views from the country of the smoke covered Old Town. Robert Chambers who asserted that the sobriquet could not be traced before the reign of Charles II attributed the name to a Fife laird, Durham of Largo, who regulated the bedtime of his children by the smoke rising above Edinburgh from the fires of the tenements.\n\nSome have called Edinburgh the \"Athens of the North\" for a variety of reasons. The earliest comparison between the two cities showed that they had a similar topography, with the Castle Rock of Edinburgh performing a similar role to the Athenian Acropolis. Both of them had flatter, fertile agricultural land sloping down to a port several miles away (respectively Leith and Piraeus). Although this arrangement is common in Southern Europe, it is rare in Northern Europe. The 18th century intellectual life, referred to as the Scottish Enlightenment, was a key influence in gaining the name. Such beacons as David Hume and Adam Smith shone during this period. Having lost most of its political importance after the Union, some hoped that Edinburgh could gain a similar influence on London as Athens had on Rome. Also a contributing factor was the later neoclassical architecture, particularly that of William Henry Playfair, and the National Monument. Tom Stoppard's character Archie, of Jumpers, said, perhaps playing on Reykjavík meaning \"smoky bay\", that the \"Reykjavík of the South\" would be more appropriate.\n\nEdinburgh has also been known as \"Dunedin\", deriving from the Scottish Gaelic, \"Dùn Èideann\". Dunedin, New Zealand, was originally called \"New Edinburgh\" and is still nicknamed the \"Edinburgh of the South\".\n\nThe Scots poets Robert Burns and Robert Fergusson sometimes used the Latin form of the city's name, \"Edina\", in their work. Ben Jonson described it as \"Britaine's other eye\", and Sir Walter Scott referred to the city as \"yon Empress of the North\".\n\nOther variants include Embra, or Embro (contracted forms), and Edinburrie.\n\nWithin Scotland itself, Edinburgh is also sometimes referred to just as \"the Capital\".\n\n"}
{"id": "11611976", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11611976", "title": "Forsån", "text": "Forsån\n\nForsån (Swedish: \"Rapids' Stream\") is a stream in southern Stockholm, Sweden. It is also known as Stortorpsån and Forsen.\n\nLeaving lake Magelungen calmly by a small sandy beach, Forsån's upper reach passes through a furrow blown in the 1860s to lower the level of the lake resulting in the present wide torrents passing through the bedrock. In contrast, the last 500 metres of the course are characterized by flat shores and stagnant, overgrown waters. The stream has a vigorous population of signal crayfish and is the only winter habitat in Stockholm for white-throated dipper.\n\nApproximately half of the catchment area is occupied by contaminated ground and polluting operations in the Larsboda industrial area; with the remaining area composed of parks and green spaces. One of the minor allotment-garden's is located in an area which is crossed by two major traffic routes and a railway.\n\nThe inflow from Magelungen brings approximately 2 tons of phosphorus and 30 tons of nitrogen to Forsån, the contribution from the catchment area itself, 10 kg and 40 kg respectively, is insignificant in comparison. No estimates of the level of metals brought to the stream has been done, but low or moderate levels of common metals were reported in river sediments in 1997. Although very high levels of lead next to the road Magelungsvägen were reported.\n\nSamples of bottom fauna taken in 1998 documented the presence of nationally rare species of gastropods such as \"Hippeutis complanatus\" and bivalve swan mussel; and during the preceding decades two species of limnetic gastropods were documented. Larvae of white-legged damselfly and blue-tailed damselfly were recorded in summer 2000. Signal crayfish and trout have been introduced in the stream, of which the former succeeded in establishing while roach is believed to be unfavourable to the latter. The white water rapids make a section of the stream ice-free during the winter time which attracts white-throated dippers and common kingfishers. In 1996, traces of beaver were reported.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1913728", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1913728", "title": "Geographic information science", "text": "Geographic information science\n\nGeographic information science or geographical information science (GIScience) is the scientific discipline that studies data structures and computational techniques to capture, represent, process, and analyze geographic information. It can be contrasted with geographic information systems (GIS), which are software tools.\nBritish geographer Michael Goodchild defined this area in the 1990s and summarized its core interests, including spatial analysis, visualization, and the representation of uncertainty. GIScience is conceptually related to geography, information science, computer science, geomatics and geoinformatics, but it claims the status of an independent scientific discipline.\n\nSince its inception in the 1990s, the boundaries between GIScience and cognate disciplines are contested, and different communities might disagree on what GIScience is and what it studies. In particular, Goodchild stated that \"information science can be defined as the systematic study according to scientific principles of the nature and properties of information. Geographic information science is the subset of information science that is about geographic information.\" Another influential definition is that by GIScientist David Mark, which states:Geographic Information Science (GIScience) is the basic research field that seeks to redefine geographic concepts and their use in the context of geographic information systems. GIScience also examines the impacts of GIS on individuals and society, and the influences of society on GIS. GIScience re-examines some of the most fundamental themes in traditional spatially oriented fields such as geography, cartography, and geodesy, while incorporating more recent developments in cognitive and information science. It also overlaps with and draws from more specialized research fields such as computer science, statistics, mathematics, and psychology, and contributes to progress in those fields. It supports research in political science and anthropology, and draws on those fields in studies of geographic information and society.\n\nIn 2009, Goodchild summarized the history of GIScience and its achievements and open challenges.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4120316", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4120316", "title": "Geosophy", "text": "Geosophy\n\nGeosophy is a concept introduced to geography by J.K. Wright in 1947. The word is a compound of ‘geo’ (Greek for earth) and ‘sophia’ (Greek for wisdom). Wright defined it thus:\n\nThis has been summarised as:\n\nBelief systems as they relate to human interaction with the Earth's environments.\n\nGeosophy is sometimes used as a synonym for the study of earth mysteries.\n\n"}
{"id": "11170029", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11170029", "title": "Geotargeting", "text": "Geotargeting\n\nGeotargeting in geomarketing and internet marketing is the method of determining the geolocation of a website visitor and delivering different content to that visitor based on their location. This includes country, region/state, city, metro code/zip code, organization, IP address, ISP or other criteria. A common usage of geo targeting is found in online advertising, as well as internet television with sites such as iPlayer and Hulu. In these circumstances, content is often restricted to users geolocated in specific countries; this approach serves as a means of implementing digital rights management. Use of proxy servers and virtual private networks may give a false location.\n\nIn geotargeting with geolocation software, the geolocation is based on geographical and other personal information that is provided by the visitor or others.\n\nTypical examples for different content by choice in geotargeting are the FedEx and UPS websites where users have the choice to select their country location first and are then presented with different site or article content depending on their selection.\n\nIn internet marketing and geomarketing, the delivery of different content based on the geographical geolocation and other personal information is automated. A good example is the Ace Hardware website at www.acehardware.com. The company utilizes geolocation software to power the “My Local Ace” section of its website. Based on a site visitor’s location, the website's online locator service can show the visitor how many stores are in their area, as well as a city-level locator map to help the customer find the store closest to their address.\n\nThe automated discovery of user person/organisation/city-level geolocation information based on IP addresses by traceroute, pings, and a combination of other tools and methods is far more advanced.\n\nIt is dependent on the pre-analysis of the entire IP address space. There are more than 4 billion possible IP addresses, and detailed analysis of each of them is a Herculean task, especially in light of the fact that IP addresses are constantly being assigned, allocated, reallocated, moved and changed due to routers being moved, enterprises being assigned IP addresses or moving, and networks being built or changed. In order to keep up with these changes, complex algorithms, bandwidth measurement and mapping technology, and finely tuned delivery mechanisms are necessary. Once all of the IP space is analyzed, each address must be periodically updated to reflect changes in the IP address information, without invading a user's privacy. This process is similar in scale to the task of Web spidering.\n\nIP delivery for search engine optimization (SEO) is the method of delivering different content to search engine spiders (also known as robots and crawlers) than to human visitors. The determination if the visitor is a known search engine spider is done based on the IP address. SEOs compare the visitor's IP address with their list of IP addresses, which are known to be servers that are owned by a search engine and used to run their crawler applications (spiders). The delivery of different content to search engine spiders than to human visitors is called cloaking and is against most search engines' webmaster guidelines.\n\nAlthough the search engine guidelines seem to imply that any type of cloaking is bad, there are cases where cloaking might be legitimate. The subject is very controversial and SEO experts continue to debate about when cloaking might be acceptable and when not.\n\n\"Cloaking\" via IP delivery works differently from cloaking via \"user agent\". While IP address spoofing is harder than user-agent spoofing and more reliable, it is also harder to keep the list of IP addresses used by search engines for their crawlers up-to-date. An outdated list with active crawler IP addresses missing enables the search engines to detect the cloaking and may result in a removal of the site from the search engine's index.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55478619", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55478619", "title": "Gerovo Tounjsko", "text": "Gerovo Tounjsko\n\nGerovo Tounjsko is a village in Croatia, under the Tounj municipality, in Karlovac County.\n"}
{"id": "58460245", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58460245", "title": "Green Spine", "text": "Green Spine\n\nGreen Spine (originally known as Southbank) is a two-building development proposed for Melbourne developed by Beulah International and designed by architectural firms UNStudio and Cox Architecture. The site currently hosts a BMW dealership. If completed as planned, the building will become the tallest in Australia.\n\nBeulah International conducted a contest to determine the architect for the project, and dubbed the competition \"Southbank by Beulah\". All six solicited bids involved two architectural firms, and partnerships included BIG Architects and Fender Katsalidis, MAD Studio and Elenberg Fraser, and Woods Bagot and MVRDV. The collaborative bid by UNStudio and Cox Architecture ultimately secured the commission.\n\n"}
{"id": "18316915", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18316915", "title": "Hammond's Knoll", "text": "Hammond's Knoll\n\nHammond's Knoll is a long sandbank off the coast of Norfolk, England at Happisburgh, to the east of Haisborough Sands. The sandbank at low tide has a depth of at each end, and in the centre. The sandbank has lighted buoys at its north and east ends.\n\nSome of the ships wrecked here include:\n\n"}
{"id": "24038878", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24038878", "title": "Hydrology of Hungary", "text": "Hydrology of Hungary\n\nThe hydrology of Hungary is mostly determined by Hungary's lying in the middle of the Carpathian Basin, half surrounded by the Carpathian Mountains. All parts of the country have some outflow. All surface water gravitates towards its southern centre, and from there, is united in the Danube, which flows into the Black Sea. The whole of Hungary lies within the Danube drainage basin.\n\nThe total length of all the irrigation systems and inland waterways in the country is about .\n\nThe annual water balance of the country shows a surplus. Yearly about of water leaves the country towards the Black Sea. From that, precipitation amounts for only 10%, the rest being provided by the incoming rivers of surrounding countries.\n\nHydrographically Hungary can be divided into two roughly equal parts: the drainage basins of the Danube and the Tisza.\n\nThe present network of Hungary's rivers began to take shape at the end of the Tertiary and the beginning of the Quaternary periods when the Pannonian Sea retreated from the basin.\n\nThe rivers in Hungary reach their lowest level at the end of the summer, the beginning of the autumn, or sometimes in the winter.\n\nBoth the Danube and the Tisza have two regular floods each year, the early spring \"icy flood\" and the early summer \"green flood\". The \"icy flood\" is the result of the thaw in the mountains surrounding the Carpathian Basin, when the rivers in the plain are usually still frozen. Before the river flows were controlled, the piled-up ice sheets of the river could form tremendous barriers, which in turn could cause devastating floods. This phenomenon can still be a real danger after cold winters, and a small fleet of icebreakers is used on the two rivers to fight against ice barrages. The \"green\" flood in the early summer carries a much larger amount of water, not only the torrents from the Alps, but also the surface runoff water from the May and June rains.\n\nThe Danube runs through several countries, and in Hungary is known as the .\n\nThe primaeval Danube first silted up the basin of the Pannonian Sea which now forms the Eastern Slovak Lowland on the left bank of the river and the Little Hungarian Plain on the right bank. It flowed towards the south into Transdanubia and then followed the present-day course of the Drava into an interior lake system in the south of the present Great Plain. Later the Danube was diverted to the east by tectonic uplift, finding an outlet through the Visegrád gap. During the Quaternary the Great Plain continued to sink, meanwhile the Börzsöny and the Visegrád mountains were rising. The result was the gorge, or a deep terraced valley cut through the mountains by the Danube at what is now the Danube Bend at Visegrád, between Esztergom and Vác. Once through the gorge, the Danube fanned out into the Great Hungarian Plain, depositing alluvial cones. The present north-south course was formed by the river in the late Pleistocene.\n\nThe Danube is the second longest river in Europe, after the Volga. Its upper flow is outside of Hungary, but its middle section starts at Devín, close to the Hungarian border. This section of the river stretches until the Iron Gate, between Serbia and Romania. The lower section of the river crosses the Romanian Plain and flows into the Black Sea through a delta. The Hungarian section of the river is long, from which forms the border between Hungary and Slovakia, from Rusovce to the mouth of the Ipeľ ().\n\nThe Danube is navigable for the whole of its course through Hungary with a minimum depth.\n\nThe Danube has been mostly controlled since the 19th century. There is about of flood-protected area along the banks of the Danube in Hungary, with about of dykes. No stretch of land along the river is left open to the floods.\n\nThe Danube has a rate of flow of at its fastest, and at its slowest, in the region of Budapest. The difference between water levels can be as high as . The present flood prevention possibilities are enough to cope with rises up to about above the low-water mark, but there are from time to time very dangerous floods.\n\nThe right-hand tributaries of the Danube inside Hungary do not add greatly to its volume. The largest are the Lajta, the Rába, the Rábca and the Marcal. The Sárvíz is joined by the Sió which drains Lake Balaton. The Sió is also fed by the river Kapos.\n\nThe only right-hand tributary of any considerable volume is the Drava, which forms also on a large stretch the Hungarian-Croatian border, but joins the Danube already inside Croatia.\n\nThe present course of the Tisza was established relatively recently in geological time. Until the end of the Pleistocene it flowed along the southern border of the Nyírség area in north-eastern Hungary, but later it changed its flow forming a right-angled bend to the north of the Nyírség. The Tisza and its tributaries built up very large, but flat alluvial cones along the edges of the Great Plain.\n\nThe drainage basin of the Tisza is in the eastern part of the Carpathian Basin. of this is in Hungary, mostly lowland. Before its control in the 19th century its full length was , of which were within the present boundaries of Hungary. Its control shortened these lengths to and respectively. In spite of regulation, the Tisza still has a characteristically wide meanders through the flood plain with sand dunes, wide forests and oxbow lakes, some cut off artificially, some naturally. In Hungary the Tisza is a sluggish river with a very gentle gradient. Before it was brought under control it regularly flooded an area of . The volume of water in the Tisza fluctuates even more than that in the Danube because the catchment area is mostly medium-height mountains, and not by high mountains with permanent snow.\n\nThe Tisza has three floods yearly, the early spring flood from the snow thaw, then the early summer \"green flood\", brought on by the summer rain, and then a minor flood in the autumn. Its lowest level is in winter.\n\nThe rate of flow varies at Szolnok between and Before the extensive controls, when the spring floods of the Danube and the Tisza happened to coincide, the Danube could not absorb the water of the Tisza and the resulting flood could cause immense damage throughout the Great Plain. The length of the Tisza dykes now exceeds .\n\nThe Tisza is navigable for smaller vessels right up to Dombrád near the north-eastern frontier of the country. In the Trans-Tisza Region (east of the river) extensive areas are irrigated by its water.\n\nThe last and largest tributary of the Tisza within Hungary is the Maros.\n\nAmong the tributaries of the Tisza the most important on the right side is the Bodrog, which flows into the Tisza at Tokaj. Their confluence has often changed, as is graphically illustrated by the extensive oxbow lakes and belts of shallows in the vicinity of Tokaj.\n\nThe next right-hand tributary of the Tisza is the Hornád, which receives earlier also the waters of the Bódva and the Sajó. Below Tiszafüred the river takes up the Eger river and at Szolnok the Zagyva which already collected the waters of Galga and Tápió. To the south from this point no more streams run into the Tisza from the ridge which separates it from the Danube. The eastern slope of this ridge is only broken by dried-out valleys.\n\nThe more significant left-hand tributes of the Tisza include the Szamos with the Kraszna, the Körös, which is usually called Treble Körös, because it gathers up the water of several minor rivers, (White Körös, Black Körös, Rapid Körös, Berettyó and the Hortobágy river). Before the great river controls of the 19th century this region was an almost endless stretch of marshlands and fens. Today there is a system of irrigation canals in the area.\n\n\"The river is spelt Tisa in other languages. In Hungarian the spelling is Tisza, but it is not assonated.\"\n\nIn the late 19th century, during the large-scale controls, canal systems were also created partly as artificial waterways, partly to help the agricultural use of land, and partly to conduct away superfluous inland water. The most important canal of Transdanubia is the Sió connecting Lake Balaton and the Danube. The Hanság Canal goes across a boggy land between the Lake Fertő and the Danube. The long Main Eastern Canal, which was only finished after 1945, crosses the drier parts of the Great Hungarian Plain to the east of the Tisza.\n\nHungary is not very rich in lakes, and their basins are no older than the late Pleistocene. There is no really deep lake in the country. The shallower waters warm up quickly in summer, and water temperatures of are quite common, which makes them very pleasant for bathing.\n\nLake Balaton is the biggest in Central Europe. It covers , being long and up to wide. It lies above mean sea level and has an average depth of , with its deepest point being at Tihany, at .\n\nEvaporation from the lake is greater than the inflow from small rivers and streams. The deficit is compensated by rainwater and underground sources. The occasional surplus water leaves the lake through the canalised Sió.\n\nDuring the Pleistocene the lake was much larger, and deep.\n\nThe southern shore of Lake Balaton is extremely shallow, the average depth only beiong reached at a distance of from the shore. There is a long beach ridge, covered by sand, on the southern shore, built up by the waves underneath the dominant north-westerly wind.\n\nThe northern shore is more varied, with the Tihany Peninsula, and it has steeper beach shelves.\n\nAt the lake the summertime is long, beginning in May and lingering to the end of September. The air temperature may be in the region of to , the water temperature to . The water temperature does not sink below to in the summer even if there is a cold front. This enormous body of water creates a very pleasant mesoclimate on the shores of the lake.\n\nSudden storms can whip up dangerous, steep waves on the surface of the lake. Their average height is , and their average length is . A prevailing north-easterly or south-westerly wind can push the water from the eastern basin of the lake (to the east of the Tihany Peninsula) into the western basin or on the contrary, resulting in water levels differing by from normal, which creates strong currents.\n\nThe lake freezes almost every winter, the thickness of the ice can reach , which creates good opportunities for sport.\nThe second largest lake of Hungary is Lake Fertő () on the border with Austria. Its water level and shore line have been changed over time very widely. The lake is very shallow, with an average water level of . The greater part of its surface is covered with reeds, huge quantities of which are used industrially. A quarter of the lake's area of lies in Hungary, with the other three-quarters in Austria. The adjacent marshy Hanság was drained by the Hanság Canal.\n\nThe third largest lake in Hungary, Lake Velence is a steppe lake in an advanced stage of alluviation. Its surface area is , but only is open water, the rest being covered by reeds. It is a popular holiday resort, being close to Budapest.\n\nThe Little Balaton was originally a part of the larger lake, but now it is mostly a swamp and marsh area at the south-western corner of the Balaton with a highly characteristic wildlife. It is a protected natural reserve.\n\nBefore the extensive controls of the 19th century there were a lot of marshes and swamps in the country like the Sárrét of Transdanubia or the Ecsed Moorland close to the north-eastern corner of the country. They have been drained, reclaimed and transformed into land fit for farming.\n\nSpring-water lakes are a special class of natural lakes in Hungary. They are fed mostly by warm springs, but karstic ones also occur (Lake Hévíz, the Malom Pool in Budapest, Tapolca). The alkaline Lake Fehér near Szeged has no outlet. It is a famous nature reserve in Körös-Maros National Park.\n\nUnderground water is very important in Hungary, especially on the Great Plain. Stratum water is abundant because Hungary is in the middle of the Carpathian Basin. These water resources are between two impermeable strata underlying the first impervious stratum beneath the underground water. They are predominantly of rainfall origin, mostly not from Hungary, but from the surrounding higher-lying parts of the Carpathian Basin. This water, when brought to the surface from great depths, is rich in various mineral solutions and may be very hot.\n\nDeep boring for stratum water has been carried out throughout the country. There are about twenty-eight thousand artesian wells in the Great Plain alone, out of a total of thirty-five thousand for the whole country. Their depth varies from . In the hilly and mountainous regions of Mesozoic limestone, karstic water is also important.\n\nIt is understood that a large earth dam was built upstream of Budapest, downstream of Vienna in the latter part of the 20th century, amassing a considerable quantity of water into an artificial lake, and should this earth bank break, similarly to what happened at Kolontaar, 2010, and Vajont 1963 Budapest would be flooded uncontrollably. It is a matter of historical record that the building of this Danube Dam was banned in the Diplomatic District of London in advance by a march and a Note Verbale handed in to the Austrian Embassy, and colour photographs being taken of the principal participants in the action. What is this?\n\n"}
{"id": "8410098", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8410098", "title": "Jacques Bacot", "text": "Jacques Bacot\n\nJacques Bacot (4 July 1877 – 25 June 1965) was an explorer and pioneering French Tibetologist. He travelled extensively in India, western China, and the Tibetan border regions. He worked at the École pratique des hautes études. Bacot was the first western scholar to study the Tibetan grammatical tradition, and along with F. W. Thomas (1867–1956) belonged to the first generation of scholars to study the Old Tibetan Dunhuang manuscripts. Bacot made frequent use of Tibetan informants. He acquired aid from Gendün Chöphel in studying Dunhuang manuscripts.\n\nThe Tibetological career of Jacques Bacot began from a round the world trip which he made in 1904 and from an expedition to Tibet in 1906, starting from Tonkin, in the course of which he followed a pilgrimage route which must have put him in intimate contact with the religious life of Tibet. After his return to France in 1908, he devouted himself to the study of Tibetan with Sylvain Lévi.\n\nJacques Bacot explored various Asian countries:\nand travelled extensively in India, in the east of China, and the border regions of Tibet.\n\nJacques Bacot was named director of studies (directeur d'études) of Tibetan at l'École pratique des hautes études in 1936. He became a member of l'Académie des inscriptions et belles-lettres in 1947, and entered the Société Asiatique in 1908. He became president after the death of Paul Pelliot, in 1945, and remained so until 1954.\n\nThe paintings and bronzes which he acquired in his various expeditions are now held at the Guimet Museum in Paris, which he donated to in 1912. His library and papers were also donated to the museum after his death.\n\n"}
{"id": "22362861", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22362861", "title": "Jingū Seamount", "text": "Jingū Seamount\n\nJingū Seamount, also called Jingū Guyot, is a guyot of the Hawaiian-Emperor seamount chain in the Pacific Ocean. It erupted 55 million years ago. The seamount is elongated in structure, running North-South, and has an oval shaped crater in the center, which is evidence of collapse when above sea level.\n\nThe seamount was named in 1954 by Robert S. Dietz, after Japanese Empress Jingū.\n\n"}
{"id": "3923079", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3923079", "title": "Kavirondo", "text": "Kavirondo\n\nKavirondo is the former name of the region surrounding Kavirondo Gulf (now Winam Gulf) as well as of two native peoples living there under the regime of British East Africa (The \"Nilotic Kavirondo\" and the \"Bantu Kavirondo\"). Broadly, this was defined as those who dwelt in the valley of the Nzoia River, on the western slopes of Mount Elgon, and along the northeast coast of Victoria Nyanza.\n\nSuggested etiologies of the name \"Kavirondo\" include\n(Both putative origins may be doubtful).\n\nKavirondo is the general name of two distinct groups of ethnic groups, the Bantu speakers and the Nilotic speakers. The Bantu appear to have been the first comers. The Nilotic ethnic groups, probably an offshoot of the Acholi, appear to have crossed Lake Victoria to reach their present home, the country around Kavirondo Gulf. Of the two, the Bantu now occupy a more northerly position than their neighbors, and are practically the most northerly representatives of that race (Hobley). The Nilotic Kavirondo in their turn had their wanderings arrested by an irruption of Elgumi people (themselves probably of Nilotic origin) from the east.\n\nThe Bantu Kavirondo are divided into three principal types: the Awa-Rimi, the Awa-Ware and the Awa-Kisii. Their Nilotic neighbors call the Bantu Kavirondo \"Jo-Mwa\" (singular: Ja-Mwa). The generic name for the Nilotic tribes is \"Jo-Luo\" (singular: Ja-Luo), but the Bantu Kavirondo call them \"Awa-Nyoro\". The two groups have many characteristics in common.\n\nThe Kavirondo have many tribes, divided, Sir H. H. Johnston suspects, totemically.\n\nA characteristic feature of the people was their traditional nakedness. Among the Nilotic Kavirondo married men who are fathers wore a small piece of goat-skin (Sembe), which though practically useless as a covering was worn according to ethnic etiquette. Even among men who have adopted European clothing this goat-skin must still be worn underneath. Contact with whites has led to the adoption of European clothing by numbers of the men (who were better travelled), but the women (who were less travelled), more conservative, remained in nudity or the scanty covering which they wore before the advent of Europeans. Among the Bantu Kavirondo married women wear a short fringe of black string in front and a tassel of banana fibre suspended from a girdle behind, this tassel having at a distance the appearance of a tail. Hence the report of early travellers as to a tailed race in Africa. The Nilotic Kavirondo women wear the tail, but dispense with the fringe in front. For dandy they wear a goat-skin slung over the shoulders.\n\nSome of the Bantu tribes practise circumcision, the Nilotic tribes do not. Patterns are tattooed on chest and stomach for ornament. Men, even husbands, are forbidden to touch the women's tails, which must be worn even should any other clothing be wrapped round the body.\n\nThe Kavirondo are noted for their independent and pugnacious nature, honesty and sexual morality, traits particularly marked among the Bantu tribes. There are more women than men, and thus the Kavirondo are naturally inclined towards polygamy. Among the Bantu tribes a man has the refusal of all the younger sisters of his wife as they attain puberty. Practically no woman lives unmarried all her life, for if no suitor seeks her, she singles out a man and offers herself to him at a reduced price, an offer usually accepted, as the women are excellent agricultural laborers. The Nilotic Kavirondo incline to exogamy, endeavouring always to marry outside their clan. Girls are betrothed at six or seven, and the husband-elect continually makes small presents to his fatherin-law-elect till the bride reaches womanhood.\n\nIt is regarded as shameful if the girl be not found a virgin on her wedding day. She is sent back to her parents, who have to return the marriage price, and pay a fine. The wife's adultery was formerly punished with death, and the capital penalty was also inflicted on young men and girls guilty of unchastity. Among the Bantu Kavirondo the usual minimum price for a wife is forty hoes, twenty goats and one cow, paid in instalments. The Nilotic Kavirondo pay twenty sheep and two to six cows; the husband-elect can claim his bride after half payment; if a woman dies without bearing children, the amount of her purchase is returnable by her father, unless the widower consents to replace her by another sister. The women are prolific and the birth of twins is common and considered a lucky event, which is celebrated by feasting and dances.\n\nAmong the Bantu Kavirondo the mother of twins must remain in her hut for seven days; among the Nilotic Kavirondo the parents and the infants must stay in the hut for a whole month. If a Bantu mother has lost two children in succession, the next child born is taken out at dawn and placed on the road, where it is left till a neighbor, usually a woman friend who has gone that way on purpose, picks it up and takes it to its mother who gives a goat in return; a somewhat similar custom prevails among the Nilotic tribes. Names are neither masculine nor feminine, and a girl often bears her father's name.\n\nThe Kavirondo bury their dead. Among one of the Bantu tribes, the Awa-Kisesa, a chief is buried in the floor of his own hut in a sitting position, but at such a depth that the head protrudes. Over the head an earthenware pot is placed, and his principal wives have to remain in the hut till the flesh is eaten by ants or decomposes, when the skull is removed and buried close to the hut. Later the skeleton is unearthed, and reburied with much ceremony in the sacred burial place of the tribe.\n\nMarried women of the Bantu tribes are buried in their hut lying on their right side with legs doubled up, the hut being then deserted. Among the Nilotic tribes the grave is dug beneath the verandah of the hut. Men of the Bantu tribes are buried in an open space in the midst of their huts; in the Nilotic tribes, if the first wife of the deceased be alive he is buried in her hut, if not, beneath the verandah of the hut in which he died. A child is buried near the door of its mothers hut. A sign of mourning is a cord of banana fibre worn round the neck and waist.\n\nA chief chooses, sometimes years before his death, one of his sons to succeed him, often giving a brass bracelet as insignia. A man's property is divided equally among his children.\n\nWhile some tribes live in isolated huts, those in the north have strongly walled villages. The walls are of mud and formerly, among the Nilotic tribes, occasionally of stone. Since colonization by the British the security of the country induced the Kavirondo to let the walls fall into disrepair. Their huts are circular with conical thatched roofs, and fairly broad verandas all round.\n\nA portion of the hut is partitioned off as a sleeping-place for goats, and the fowls sleep indoors in a large basket. Skins form the only bedsteads. In each hut are two fireplaces, about which a rigid etiquette prevails. Strangers or distant relatives are not allowed to pass beyond the first, which is near the door, and is used for cooking. At the second, which is nearly in the middle of the hut, sits the hut owner, his wives, children, brothers and sisters. Around this fireplace the family sleep.\n\nCooking pots, water pots and earthenware grain jars are the only other furniture. The food is served in small baskets. Every full-grown man has a hut to himself, and one for each wife. The huts of the Masaba Kavirondo of west Elgon have the apex of the roof surmounted by a carved pole which Sir H. H. Johnston says is obviously a phallus. Among the Bantu Kavirondo a father does not eat with his sons, nor do brothers eat together. Among the Nilotic tribes father and sons eat together, usually in a separate hut with open sides. Women eat apart and only after the men have finished.\n\nThough a peaceful people, the Kavirondo fight well. Their weapons are spears with rather long flat blades without blood-courses and broad-bladed swords. Some use slings, and most carry shields. Bows and arrows are also used; firearms are however displacing other weapons. Kavirondo warfare was mainly defensive and intertribal, this last a form of vendetta. When a man had killed his enemy in battle he shaved his head on his return and was rubbed with medicine (generally goats dung), to defend him from the spirit of the dead man. The Awa-Wanga abandoned this custom when they obtained firearms. The young warriors were made to stab the bodies of their slain enemies.\n\nIn the colonial era the Kavirondo are on the increase due to their fecundity and morality. Those who live in the low-lying lands suffer from a mild malaria, while abroad they are subject to dysentery and pneumonia. Epidemics of small-pox have occurred. Native medicine is of the simplest. They dress wounds with butter and leaves, and for inflammation of the lungs or pleurisy, pierce a hole in the chest. There are no medicine-men: the women are the doctors. Certain of the incisor teeth are pulled out. If a man retains these he will, it is thought, be killed in warfare. Among certain tribes the women also have incisor teeth extracted, otherwise misfortune would befall their husbands. For the same reason the wife scars the skin of her forehead or stomach. A Kavirondo husband, before starting on a perilous journey, cuts scars on his wife's body to ensure him good luck.\n\nOf dances, the Kavirondo have the birth dance, the death dance, that at initiation and one of a propitiatory kind in seasons of drought. Their music is plaintive and sometimes pretty, produced by a large lyre-shaped instrument. They also use various drums.\n\nThe Luo women use small beads attached to pieces of brass for ear ornaments. Like the aggrey beads of West Africa these beads are not of local manufacture nor of recent introduction. They are ancient, generally blue in color, occasionally yellow or green, and are picked up in certain districts after heavy rain. The natives believe they come down with the rain. They are identical in shape and color to Ancient Egyptian beads and other beads obtained from trade with peoples from ancient cities in Balochistan, in modern Pakistan.\n\nThey appears to practicee a vague ancestor worship, but the northern tribes have two gods, Awafwa and Ishishemi, the spirits of good and evil. To the former, cattle and goats are sacrificed.\n\nThe Kavirondo have great faith in divination from the entrails of a sheep. Nearly everybody and everything are ominous of good or evil to the Kavirondo.\n\nThey have few myths or traditions; the antbear is the chief figure in their beast-legends.\n\nThey believe in witchcraft and practise trial by ordeal.\n\nThe Kavirondo are essentially an agricultural people: both men and women work in the fields with large iron hoes. In addition to sorghum, Eleusine and maize, tobacco and hemp are both cultivated and smoked. Both sexes smoke, but the use of hemp is restricted to men and unmarried women, as it is thought to injure child-bearing women. Hemp is smoked in a hubble-bubble. The Kavirondo cultivate sesamum and make an oil from its seeds which they burn in little clay lamps of the ancient saucer type, the pattern being, in Hobley's opinion, introduced into the country by the coast people.\n\nThe Kavirondo keep cattle, sheep, goats, fowls and a few dogs. Women do not eat sheep, fowls or eggs, and are not allowed to drink milk except when mixed with other things. The flesh of the wild cat and leopard is esteemed by most of the tribes. Among the Bantu Kavirondo goats and sheep are suffocated, the snout being held until the animal dies. From Eleusine a beer is made.\n\nThe Kavirondo are plucky hunters, capturing the hippopotamus with ropes and traps, and attacking with spears the largest elephants. Fish, of which they are very fond, are caught by line and rod or in traps. Bee-keeping is common, and where trees are scarce the hives are placed on the roof of the hut.\n\nTraditional Kavirondo industries are salt-making, effected by burning reeds and water-plants and passing water through the ashes; the smelting of iron ore (confined to the Bantu tribes); pottery and basket-work.\n\n"}
{"id": "48850287", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48850287", "title": "Langtang Glacier", "text": "Langtang Glacier\n\nThe Langtang Glacier is a long glacier in Nepal, located in Langtang in the Himalayan mountains.\n"}
{"id": "2312270", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312270", "title": "List of Alfalfa Club members", "text": "List of Alfalfa Club members\n\nThe Alfalfa Club, founded in 1913, is an exclusive social organization, based in Washington, D.C., in the United States. The Club's only function is the holding of an annual banquet in honor of the birthday of Civil War Confederate General Robert E. Lee. Its members are composed mostly of American politicians and influential members of the business community, and have included several Presidents of the United States.\n\nMembers:\n"}
{"id": "517901", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=517901", "title": "List of Chinatowns", "text": "List of Chinatowns\n\nChinatowns exist in many cities around the world. The box at right gives a list of sublists of Chinatowns by region.\n\n"}
{"id": "7068909", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7068909", "title": "List of Flight members", "text": "List of Flight members\n\nAlpha Flight members are fictional comic book characters in the Marvel Comics universe, featured mainly in the \"Alpha Flight\" series. In the comics, the Flight teams were created by Department H and tasked with protecting Canada.\n"}
{"id": "50544167", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50544167", "title": "List of The Muppets productions", "text": "List of The Muppets productions\n\nThis is a list of productions based on The Muppets characters and franchise, including films, television series and specials, and other media. The franchise's main work is \"The Muppet Show\", a syndicated television series which ran from 1976 to 1981. The franchise includes eight feature films; \"The Muppet Movie\", \"The Great Muppet Caper\", \"The Muppets Take Manhattan\", \"The Muppet Christmas Carol\", \"Muppet Treasure Island\", \"Muppets from Space\", \"The Muppets\", and \"Muppets Most Wanted\". The franchise also includes other series such as \"Muppets Tonight\" and \"The Muppets\".\n\n\nA number of video games featuring the Muppets have been produced since the 1990s.\n\n"}
{"id": "52583458", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52583458", "title": "List of accolades received by Zootopia", "text": "List of accolades received by Zootopia\n\n\"Zootopia\" (known as \"Zootropolis\" in some regions) is a 2016 American 3D computer-animated buddy comedy film produced by Walt Disney Animation Studios and released by Walt Disney Pictures. The film was directed by Byron Howard and Rich Moore and was based on a screenplay written by Jared Bush (who also co-directed) and Phil Johnston. \"Zootopia\" focuses on the unlikely partnership between an ambitious rabbit police officer, Judy Hopps (voiced by Ginnifer Goodwin) and a crafty red fox con artist, Nick Wilde (voiced by Jason Bateman) as they uncover a conspiracy behind the mysterious disappearance of predators from a mammalian metropolis.\n\nThe film premiered on February 11, 2016, in Denmark before going into wide release in more than 3,800 theaters in the United States and Canada on March 4. It debuted in first place on its opening weekend earning more than $75 million. \"Zootopia\" grossed a worldwide total of over $1 billion at the box office on a production budget of $150 million. Rotten Tomatoes, a review aggregator surveyed 256 reviews, and judged 98% to be positive.\n\n\"Zootopia\" garnered a variety of awards and nominations, many of them in the Best Animated Feature category. At the 89th Academy Awards, the film won Best Animated Feature. It also won the Golden Globe Award for Best Animated Feature Film and was nominated for the BAFTA Award for Best Animated Film. At the 44th Annie Awards, \"Zootopia\" received eleven nominations and won six including Best Animated Feature and Outstanding Achievement, Voice Acting in an Animated Feature Production for Bateman. The film won Best Animated Motion Picture at the 28th Producers Guild of America Awards. Goodwin received the Best Animated Female award from the Alliance of Women Film Journalists and received nominations from the People's Choice Awards, and the Washington D.C. Area Film Critics Association. Musician Sia and music producers Stargate garnered a nomination for the Grammy Award for Best Song Written for Visual Media for \"Try Everything\". The American Film Institute included \"Zootopia\" in their list of the top ten of 2016.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15946133", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15946133", "title": "List of banks in Åland", "text": "List of banks in Åland\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9241198", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9241198", "title": "List of delegates to the Millennium Summit", "text": "List of delegates to the Millennium Summit\n\nThe Millennium Summit was a meeting among several world leaders that took place from September 6-8, 2000 at the United Nations headquarters in New York City in order to discuss the role of the United Nations in the turn of the 21st century. Over 150 heads of state, heads of government, crown princes, vice presidents, deputy prime ministers, and other delegates attended, making this summit the largest gathering of world leaders as of the year 2000.\n\nThe Millennium Summit was hosted by the United States and jointly presided over by President of Finland Tarja Halonen and President of Namibia Sam Nujoma.\n\nThe President of Finland Tarja Halonen and the President of Namibia Sam Nujoma co-chaired the Millennium Summit. This was due to the Presidency over the General Assembly of Theo-Ben Gurirab in the fifty-fourth session and that of Harri Holkeri in the fifty-fifth session. Therefore, the Heads of state of Finland and Namibia were chosen to preside over the summit.\n\nKim Yong Nam, Head of state of the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, cancelled his visit to the Millennium Summit after an incident at an airport in Frankfurt, Germany. He and his fellow diplomats were subjected to inspection by American Airlines officials. The diplomats claimed diplomatic immunity, which can free them from any law enforcement while visiting other countries.\n\nTuvalu was admitted to the United Nations the day before the Millennium Summit began, on September 5, 2000. This country was accepted as the 189th member of the United Nations, signifying Tuvalu's major development since its independence in 1978.\n\n\n<br>\n"}
{"id": "17109560", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17109560", "title": "List of football clubs in Chad", "text": "List of football clubs in Chad\n\n\"For a complete list see \"\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21991025", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21991025", "title": "List of islands of Palau", "text": "List of islands of Palau\n\nA list of inhabited islands of the Republic of Palau, located in the eastern Caroline Islands Archipelago.\n\nThe islands are within the Micronesia region of Oceania, in the western Pacific Ocean.\n\n"}
{"id": "15673528", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15673528", "title": "List of islands of the Bailiwick of Guernsey", "text": "List of islands of the Bailiwick of Guernsey\n\nThe Bailiwick of Guernsey (French: Bailliage de Guernesey) is a British Crown dependency in the English Channel off the coast of Normandy.\n\nAs well as the island of Guernsey itself, it also includes:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1390269", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1390269", "title": "List of place names in Canada of Indigenous origin", "text": "List of place names in Canada of Indigenous origin\n\nThis list of place names in Canada of Indigenous origin contains Canadian places whose names originate from the words of the First Nations, Métis, or Inuit, collectively referred to as Indigenous peoples. When possible the original word or phrase used by Indigenous peoples is included, along with its generally believed meaning. Names listed are only those used in English or French, as many places have alternate names in the local native languages, e.g. Alkali Lake, British Columbia is \"Esket\" in the Shuswap language; Lytton, British Columbia is \"Camchin\" in the Thompson language (often used in English however, as Kumsheen).\n\nThe name \"Canada\" comes from the word meaning \"village\" or \"settlement\" in the Saint-Lawrence Iroquoian language spoken by the inhabitants of Stadacona and the neighbouring region near present-day Quebec City in the 16th century. Another contemporary meaning was \"land.\" Jacques Cartier was first to use the word \"Canada\" to refer not only to the village of Stadacona, but also to the neighbouring region and to the Saint-Lawrence River.\n\nIn other Iroquoian languages, the words for \"town\" or \"village\" are similar: the Mohawk use \"kaná:ta’\", the Seneca \"iennekanandaa\", and the Onondaga use \"ganataje\".\n\nProvinces and territories whose official names are aboriginal in origin are Yukon, Saskatchewan, Manitoba, Ontario, Quebec and Nunavut.\n\n\nMount Tonsa (no. four); Mount Tuzo (no. 7); Neptuak Mountain (no. 9) and Wenkchemna Peak (no. 10).\n\nFor the scores of BC placenames from the Chinook Jargon, see List of Chinook Jargon placenames.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20778799", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20778799", "title": "List of political and geographic subdivisions by total area from 0.1 to 1,000 square kilometers", "text": "List of political and geographic subdivisions by total area from 0.1 to 1,000 square kilometers\n"}
{"id": "1403777", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1403777", "title": "List of pollen sources", "text": "List of pollen sources\n\nThe term pollen source is often used in the context of beekeeping and refers to flowering plants as a source of pollen for bees or other insects. Bees collect pollen as a protein source to raise their brood. For the plant, the pollinizer, this can be an important mechanism for sexual reproduction, as the pollinator distributes its pollen. Few flowering plants self-pollinate; some can provide their own pollen (self fertile), but require a pollinator to move the pollen; others are dependent on cross pollination from a genetically different source of viable pollen, through the activity of pollinators. One of the possible pollinators to assist in cross-pollination are honeybees. The article below is mainly about the pollen source from a beekeeping perspective.\n\nThe pollen source in a given area depends on the type of vegetation present and the length of their bloom period. What type of vegetation will grow in an area depends on soil texture, soil pH, soil drainage, daily maximum and minimum temperatures, precipitation, extreme minimum winter temperature, and growing degree days. The plants listed below are plants that would grow in USDA Hardiness zone 5. A good predictor for when a plant will bloom and produce pollen is a calculation of the growing degree days.\n\nThe color of pollen below indicates the color as it appears when the pollen arrives at the beehive. Bees mix dry pollen with nectar and/or honey to compact the pollen in the pollen basket. Dry pollen, is a food source for bees, which contains 16–30% protein, 1–10% fat, 1–7% starch, many vitamins, but little sugar. The protein source needed for rearing one worker bee from larval to adult stage requires approximately 120 to 145 mg of pollen. An average bee colony will collect about 20 to 57 kg (44 to 125 pounds) of pollen a year.\n\n"}
{"id": "48837716", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48837716", "title": "List of the first women holders of political offices in South America", "text": "List of the first women holders of political offices in South America\n\n\n\nEmpire of Brazil:\nRepublic of the United States of Brazil:\nUnited States of Brazil:\nFederative Republic of Brazil:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1289971", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1289971", "title": "Los Llanos (South America)", "text": "Los Llanos (South America)\n\nLos Llanos (, \"The Plains\") is a vast tropical grassland plain situated to the east of the Andes in Colombia and Venezuela, in northwestern South America. It is an ecoregion of the flooded grasslands and savannas biome.\n\nThe Llanos' main river is the Orinoco, which forms part of the border between Colombia and Venezuela and is the major river system of Venezuela.\n\nDuring the rainy season from May to October, parts of the Llanos can flood up to a meter. This turns the woodlands and grassland into a temporary wetland, comparable to the Pantanal of central South America. This flooding also makes the area unique for its wildlife. The area supports around 70 species of water birds, including the scarlet ibis. A large portion of the distribution of the white-bearded flycatcher is in the Llanos.\n\nThe flooding also made the area unfit for most agriculture before the advent of modern, industrial farming technology. Therefore, during the Spanish colonial era, the primary economic activity of the area was the herding of millions of heads of cattle. An 1856 watercolor by Manuel María Paz depicts sparsely populated open grazing lands with cattle and palm trees. The term \"llanero\" (\"plainsman\") became synonymous with the cowhands that took care of the herds, and had some cultural similarities with the gauchos of the Pampas or the \"vaqueros\" of Spanish and Mexican Texas.\n\nIn the wet season most of the Llanos is flooded and travel is by boat down the numerous temporary and permanent waterways.\nIn Los Llanos the governments of Venezuela and Colombia had developed a strong oil and gas industry in zones of Arauca, Casanare, Guárico, Anzoátegui, Apure and Monagas. The Orinoco Belt, entirely in Venezuelan territory, consists of large deposits of extra heavy crude (oil sands). The Orinoco belt oil sands are known to be one of the largest, behind that of the Athabasca Oil Sands in Alberta, Canada. Venezuela's non-conventional oil deposits of about , found primarily in the Orinoco oil sands, are estimated to approximately equal the world's reserves of conventional oil.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21451596", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21451596", "title": "Mbeli Bai", "text": "Mbeli Bai\n\nMbeli Bai is a 13 hectare swampy forest clearing in the Nouabalé-Ndoki National Park in the Republic of Congo with minimum levels of disturbance, where \"bai’s\" like this are believed to offer important nutritional benefits to many species.\n\nSince the end of the 1990s the Wildlife Conservation Society has worked in the north of the Republic of Congo and in 1993 together with the Ministry of Forest Economy and Environment has created the Nouabalé-Ndoki National Park (4,200 km²). The Nouabalé-Ndoki National Park with its low levels of disturbance represents one of the last remaining intact forest blocs (no history of logging) in the Congo Basin and an important stronghold for western gorillas, forest elephants and other endangered forest mammals.\n\nResearchers have been continuously monitoring the mammals visiting Mbeli Bai since February 1995 with the aim to increase our understanding of the biology of western gorillas and other large mammals that are otherwise difficult to study in the dense rain forest. Since 1995 more than 330 gorillas have been monitored (actual population ~130 gorillas) spanning more than 1750 gorilla years of around 55 gorilla units (groups and solitary silverbacks). The result of this monitoring of individual identifiable animals has provided major and unique insights into the social organization and behavior of this elusive species including many spectacular behavioral observations such as twin births, silverback splash displays and the first observation of tool use in free-ranging gorillas findings that have attracted significant international media attention.\n\n"}
{"id": "386596", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=386596", "title": "Mesa", "text": "Mesa\n\nMesa (Spanish and Portuguese for \"table\") is the American English term for tableland, an elevated area of land with a flat top and sides that are usually steep cliffs. It takes its name from its characteristic table-top shape. It may also be called a table hill, table-topped hill or table mountain. It is larger than a butte, which it otherwise resembles closely.\n\nIt is a characteristic landform of arid environments, particularly the Western and Southwestern United States in badlands and mountainous regions ranging from Washington and California to the Dakotas, Wyoming, Utah, Oklahoma, and Texas. Examples are also found in many other nations including Spain, Sardinia, North and South Africa, Arabia, India, and Australia.\n\nGrand Mesa is a large mesa located in western Colorado in the Southwest United States. Cerro Negro is a mesa in Argentina.\n\nMesas form by weathering and erosion of horizontally layered rocks that have been uplifted by tectonic activity. Variations in the ability of different types of rock to resist weathering and erosion cause the weaker types of rocks to be eroded away, leaving the more resistant types of rocks topographically higher than their surroundings. This process is called differential erosion. The most resistant rock types include sandstone, conglomerate, quartzite, basalt, chert, limestone, lava flows and sills. Lava flows and sills, in particular, are very resistant to weathering and erosion, and often form the flat top, or caprock, of a mesa. The less resistant rock layers are mainly made up of shale, a softer rock that weathers and erodes more easily.\n\nThe differences in strength of various rock layers is what gives mesas their distinctive shape. Less resistant rocks are eroded away on the surface into valleys, where they collect water drainage from the surrounding area, while the more resistant layers are left standing out. A large area of very resistant rock, such as a sill may shield the layers below it from erosion while the softer rock surrounding it is eroded into valleys, thus forming a caprock.\n\nDifferences in rock type also reflect on the sides of a mesa, as instead of smooth slopes, the sides are broken into a staircase pattern called \"cliff-and-bench topography\". The more resistant layers form the cliffs, or stairsteps, while the less resistant layers form gentle slopes, or benches, between the cliffs. Cliffs retreat and are eventually cut off from the main cliff, or plateau, by basal sapping. When the cliff edge does not retreat uniformly, but instead is indented by headward eroding streams, a section can be cut off from the main cliff, forming a mesa.\n\nBasal sapping occurs as water flowing around the rock layers of the mesa erodes the underlying soft shale layers, either as surface runoff from the mesa top or from groundwater moving through permeable overlying layers, which leads to slumping and flowage of the shale. As the underlying shale erodes away, it can no longer support the overlying cliff layers, which collapse and retreat. When the caprock has caved away to the point where only a little remains, it is known as a butte.\n\nA transitional zone on Mars, known as the \"fretted terrain\", lies between highly cratered highlands and less cratered lowlands. The younger lowland exhibits steep walled mesas and knobs. The mesa and knobs are separated by flat lying lowlands. They are thought to form from ice-facilitated mass wasting processes from ground or atmospheric sources. The mesas and knobs decrease in size with increasing distance from the highland escarpment. The relief of the mesas range from nearly 2 km to 100m depending on the distance they are from the escarpment.\n"}
{"id": "22514145", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22514145", "title": "Outflow channels", "text": "Outflow channels\n\nOutflow channels are extremely long, wide swathes of scoured ground on Mars, commonly containing the streamlined remnants of pre-existing topography and other linear erosive features indicating sculpting by fluids moving downslope. Channels extend many hundreds of kilometers in length and are typically greater than one kilometer in width; the largest valley (Kasei Vallis) is around long, greater than wide and exceeds in depth cut into the surrounding plains. These features tend to appear fully sized at fractures in the Martian surface, either from chaos terrains or from canyon systems or other tectonically controlled, deep graben, though there are exceptions. Besides their exceptional size, the channels are also characterized by low sinuosities and high width:depth ratios compared both to other Martian valley features and to terrestrial river channels. Crater counts indicate that most of the channels were cut since the early Hesperian, though the age of the features is variable between different regions of Mars. Some outflow channels in the Amazonis and Elysium Planitiae regions have yielded ages of only tens of million years, extremely young by the standards of Martian topographic features.\n\nOn the basis of their geomorphology, locations and sources, the channels are today generally thought to have been carved by outburst floods (huge, rare, episodic floods of liquid water), although some authors still make the case for formation by the action of glaciers, lava, or debris flows. Calculations indicate that the volumes of water required to cut such channels at least equal and most likely exceed by several orders of magnitude the present discharges of the largest terrestrial rivers, and are probably comparable to the largest floods known to have ever occurred on Earth (e.g., those that cut the Channeled Scablands in North America or those released during the re-flooding of the Mediterranean basin at the end of the Messinian Salinity Crisis). Such exceptional flow rates and the implied associated volumes of water released could not be sourced by precipitation but rather demand the release of water from some long-term store, probably a subsurface aquifer sealed by ice and subsequently breached by meteorite impact or igneous activity.\n\nThe outflow channels contrast with the Martian channel features known as \"valley networks\", which much more closely resemble the dendritic planform more typical of terrestrial river drainage basins.\n\nOutflow channels tend to be named after the names for Mars in various ancient world languages, or more rarely for major terrestrial rivers. The term outflow channels was introduced in planetology in 1975.\n\nThis is a partial list of named channel structures on Mars claimed as outflow channels in the literature, largely following \"The Surface of Mars\" by Carr. The channels tend to cluster in certain regions on the Martian surface, often associated with volcanic provinces, and the list reflects this. Originating structures at the head of the channels, if clear and named, are noted in parentheses and in italics after each entry.\n\nChryse Planitia is a roughly circular volcanic plain west of the Tharsis bulge and its associated volcanic systems. This region contains the most prominent and numerous outflow channels on Mars. The channels flow east or north into the plain.\n\n\nIn this region it is particularly difficult to distinguish outflow channels from lava channels but the following features have been suggested as at least overprinted by outflow channel floods:\n\n\nSeveral channels flow either onto the plains of Amazonis and Elysium from the southern highlands, or originate at graben within the plains. This region contains some of the youngest channels. Some of these channels have rare tributaries, and they do not start at a chaos region. It has been suggested the formation mechanisms for these channels may be more variable than for those around Chryse Planitia, perhaps in some cases involving lake breaches at the surface.\n\n\nSeveral outflow channels rise in the region west of the Elysium volcanic province and flow northwestward to the Utopia Planitia. As common in the Amazonis and Elysium Planitiae regions, these channels tend to originate in graben. Some of these channels may be influenced by lahars, as indicated by their surface textures and ridged, lobate deposits at their margins and termini. The valleys of Hephaestus Fossae and Hebrus Valles are of extremely unusual form, and although sometimes claimed as outflow channels, are of enigmatic origin.\n\n\nThree valleys flow from east of its rim down onto the floor of the Hellas basin.\n\n\nIt has been argued that Uzboi, Ladon, Margaritifer and Ares Valles, although now separated by large craters, once comprised a single outflow channel flowing north into Chryse Planitia. The source of this outflow has been suggested as overflow from the Argyre crater, formerly filled to the brim as a lake by channels (Surius, Dzigai, and Palacopus Valles) draining down from the south pole. If real, the full length of this drainage system would be over 8000 km, the longest known drainage path in the solar system. Under this suggestion, the extant form of the outflow channel Ares Vallis would thus be a remolding of a pre-existing structure.\n\nThe large troughs present in each pole, Chasma Boreale and Chasma Australe, have both been argued to have been formed by meltwater release from beneath polar ice, as in a terrestrial jökulhlaup. However, others have argued for an eolian origin, with them induced by katabatic winds blowing down from the poles.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25698890", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25698890", "title": "Rann of Kutch", "text": "Rann of Kutch\n\nThe Rann of Kutch is a large area of salt marshes located mostly in Gujarat (primarily the Kutch district), India and the southern tip of Sindh, Pakistan. It is divided into two main parts: Great Rann of Kutch and Little Rann of Kutch.\n\nThe Rann of Kutch is located in the Thar Desert bio-geographic area in the Indian state of Gujarat, with some parts in Pakistani province of Sindh. It is a seasonally marshy region, the word \"Rann\" meaning \"salt marsh\", alternating with \"medaks\", elevated pieces of land where vegetation grows. Kori Creek and Sir creek are located in Rann of Kutch area which is part of Indus river delta.\n\nKutch is the name of the district in Gujarat where this region is situated. The marsh covers a huge area of around 10,000 square miles and is positioned between the Gulf of Kutch and the mouth of the Indus River in southern Pakistan. Many rivers located in Rajasthan and Gujarat flow in to Rann of Kutch. These are Luni, Bhuki, Bharud, Nara, Kharod, Banas, Sarswati, Rupen, Bambhan, Machchhu, etc.\n\nThe Rann of Kutch is the only large flooded grasslands zone in the whole Indo-Malayan region.\nThe fact that the area has desert on one side and the sea on the other provides the Rann of Kutch with a variety of ecosystems, including mangroves and desert vegetation. The grassland and deserts of the Rann of Kutch are home to forms of wildlife that have adapted to the often harsh conditions of this vast area. These include endemic and endangered animal and plant species.\n\n"}
{"id": "878460", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=878460", "title": "Spanish treasure fleet", "text": "Spanish treasure fleet\n\nThe Spanish treasure fleet, or West Indies Fleet from Spanish \"Flota de Indias\", also called silver fleet or plate fleet (from the Spanish \"plata\" meaning \"silver\"), was a convoy system adopted by the Spanish Empire from 1566 to 1790, linking Spain with its territories in America across the Atlantic. The convoys were general purpose cargo fleets used for transporting a wide variety of items, including agricultural goods, lumber, various metal resources, luxuries, silver, gold, gems, pearls, spices, sugar, tobacco, silk, and other exotic goods from the Spanish Empire to the Spanish mainland. Passengers and goods such as textiles, books and tools were transported in the opposite direction. The West Indies fleet was the first permanent transatlantic trade route in history. Similarly, the Manila galleons were the first permanent trade route across the Pacific.\n\nSpanish ships had brought goods from the New World since Christopher Columbus's first expedition of 1492. The organized system of convoys dates from 1564, but Spain sought to protect shipping prior to that by organizing protection around the largest Caribbean island, Cuba and the maritime region of southern Spain and the Canary Islands because of attacks by pirates and foreign navies. The Spanish government created a system of convoys in the 1560s in response to the sacking of Havana by French privateers. The main procedures were established after the recommendations of Pedro Menéndez de Avilés, an experienced admiral and personal adviser of King Philip II. The treasure fleets sailed along two sea lanes. The main one was the Caribbean Spanish West Indies fleet or \"Flota de Indias\", which departed in two convoys from Seville, where the \"Casa de Contratación\" was based, bound for ports such as Veracruz, Portobelo and Cartagena before making a rendezvous at Havana in order to return together to Spain. A secondary route was that of the Manila Galleons or \"Galeón de Manila\" which linked the Philippines to Acapulco in Mexico across the Pacific Ocean. From Acapulco, the Asian goods were transhipped by mule train to Veracruz to be loaded onto the Caribbean treasure fleet for shipment to Spain. To better defend this trade, Pedro Menéndez de Avilés and Álvaro de Bazán designed the definitive model of the galleon in the 1550s.\n\nSpain controlled the trade through the \"Casa de Contratación\" based in Seville, southern Spain. By law, the colonies could trade only with the one designated port in the mother country, Seville. Maritime archaeology has shown that the quantity of goods transported was sometimes higher than that recorded at the \"Archivo General de Indias\". Spanish merchants and Spaniards acting as fronts (\"cargadores\") for foreign merchants sent their goods on these fleets to the New World. Some resorted to contraband to transport their cargoes untaxed. The Crown of Spain taxed the wares and precious metals of private merchants at a rate of 20%, a tax known as the \"quinto real\" or royal fifth.\n\nSpain became the richest country in Europe by the end of the 16th century. Much of the wealth from this trade was used by the Spanish Habsburgs to finance armies to protect its European territories in the 16th and 17th centuries against the Ottoman Empire and most of the major European powers.\n\nThe flow of precious metals also made many traders wealthy, both in Spain and abroad. The increase in gold and silver on the Iberian market sometimes caused high inflation in the 17th century, affecting the Spanish economy. As a consequence, the Crown was forced to delay the payment of some major debts, which had negative consequences for its lenders, mostly foreign bankers. By 1690 some of these lenders could no longer offer financial support to the Crown. The Spanish monopoly over its West and East Indies colonies lasted for over two centuries.\n\nThe economic importance of exports later declined with the drop of production of the American precious metal mines, such as Potosí. However, the growth in trade was strong in the early years. Numbering just 17 ships in 1550, the fleets expanded to more than 50 much larger vessels by the end of the century. By the second half of the 17th century, that number had dwindled to less than half of its peak. As economic conditions gradually recovered from the last decades of the 17th century, fleet operations slowly expanded again, once again becoming prominent during the reign of the Bourbons in the 18th century.\n\nThe Spanish trade of goods was sometimes threatened by its colonial rivals, who tried to seize islands as bases along the Spanish Main and in the Spanish West Indies. However, the Atlantic trade was largely unharmed. The English acquired small islands like St Kitts in 1624; expelled in 1629, they returned in 1639 and seized Jamaica in 1655. French pirates established themselves in Saint-Domingue in 1625, were expelled, only to return later, and the Dutch occupied Curaçao in 1634. In 1739, British Admiral Edward Vernon raided Portobello, but in 1741 his campaign against Cartagena de Indias ended in defeat, with heavy losses of men and ships. Temporary British seizures of Havana and Manila (1762-4), during the Seven Years' War, were dealt with by using more, smaller fleets visiting a greater variety of ports. \nCharles III began loosening the system in 1765. In the 1780s, Spain opened its colonies to free trade. In 1790, the \"Casa de Contratación\" was abolished, bringing to an end the great general purpose fleets. Thereafter small groups of naval frigates were assigned specifically to transferring goods or bullion as required.\n\nDespite the general perception that many Spanish galleons were captured by foreign privateers, few fleets were actually lost to enemies in the course of the \"flota's\" two and a half centuries of operation. Only Piet Hein managed to capture the fleet in 1628 and bring its cargo to the Dutch Republic. In 1656 and 1657 Robert Blake also attacked the fleet in Cadiz and Tenerife, but the Spanish officers saved most of the silver and the English admiral managed to capture only a single galleon. The 1702 West Indies fleet was destroyed in the Battle of Vigo Bay during the War of the Spanish Succession, when the fleet was surprised at port unloading its goods, but the Spanish sailors had already unloaded most of its cargo. None of these attacks took place in open seas. In the case of the Manila galleons, only four were ever captured by British warships in nearly three centuries: the \"Santa Anna\" by Thomas Cavendish in 1589, the \"Encarnación\" in 1709 by Woodes Rogers, the \"Covadonga\" by George Anson in 1743, and the \"Santísima Trinidad\" in 1762. Two other British attempts were foiled by the \"Rosario\" in 1704 and the \"Begonia\" in 1710. These losses and those due to hurricanes were important economic blows to trade when they occurred. The fleets, however, must be counted as among the most successful naval operations in history. Moreover, from a commercial point of view, some key components of today's world economic system were made possible by the success of the Spanish West and East Indies fleets.\n\nEvery year, two fleets left Spain loaded with European goods in demand in Spanish America, which were guarded by military vessels. The silver from Mexico and Peru were the valuable cargo from the Americas. Fleets of fifty or more ships sailed from Spain to the Mexican port of Veracruz and other to Panama and Cartagena. From the Spanish ports of Seville or Cádiz, the two fleets bound for the Americas sailed together down the coast of Africa, and stopped at the Spanish territory of the Canary Islands for provisions before the voyage across the Atlantic. Once the two fleets reached the Caribbean, the fleets separated. The New Spain fleet sailed to Veracruz in Mexico to load not only silver and the valuable red dye cochineal, but also porcelain and silk shipped from China on the Manila galleons. The Asian goods were brought overland from Acapulco to Veracruz by mule train. The \"Tierra Firme\" fleet, or galeones, sailed to Cartagena to load South American products, most especially silver from Potosí. Some ships went to Portobello on the Caribbean coast of Panama to load Peruvian silver that had been shipped from the Pacific coast port of Callao. The silver had then been transported across the isthmus of Panama by mule. Other ships went to the Caribbean island of Margarita, off the coast of Venezuela, to collect pearls which had been harvested from offshore oyster beds. After loading was complete, both fleets sailed for Havana, Cuba, to rendezvous for the journey back to Spain. In Mexico in 1635, there was an increase of the sales tax levied to finance the fleet, the Armada de Barlovento. \n\nBetween 1703-1705 began the participation of Spanish corsair Amaro Pargo in the West Indies Fleet. In this period in which he was the owner and captain of the frigate \"El Ave María y Las Ánimas\", a ship with which he sailed from the port of Santa Cruz de Tenerife to that of Havana. He reinvented the benefits of the Canarian-American trade in his estates, mainly destined to the cultivation of the vine of malvasía and vidueño, whose production (mainly the one of vidueño) was sent to America.\n\nWrecks of Spanish treasure ships, whether sunk in naval combat or by storms (those of 1622, 1715, 1733 and 1750 being among the worst), are a prime target for modern treasure hunters. Many, such as the \"Nuestra Señora de Atocha\", and the \"Santa Margarita\" have been salvaged. In August 1750, at least three Spanish merchantmen ran aground in North Carolina during a hurricane. The \"El Salvador\" sank near Cape Lookout, the \"Nuestra Señora De Soledad\" went ashore near present-day Core Banks and the \"Nuestra Señora De Guadalupe\" went ashore near present-day Ocracoke.\n\nThe wreck of the cargo ship \"Encarnación\", part of the Tierra Firme fleet, was discovered in 2011 with much of its cargo still aboard and part of its hull intact. The \"Encarnación\" sank in 1681 during a storm near the mouth of the Chagres River on the Caribbean side of Panama. The \"Encarnación\" sank in less than 40 feet of water. The remains of the \"Urca de Lima\" from the 1715 fleet and the \"San Pedro\" from the 1733 fleet, after being found by treasure hunters, are now protected as Florida Underwater Archaeological Preserves.\n\nThe \"Capitana\" (El Rubi) was the flagship of the 1733 fleet; it ran aground during a hurricane near Upper Matecumbe Key, then sank. Three men died during the storm. Afterward, divers recovered most of the treasure aboard.\n\nThe \"Capitana\" was the first of the 1733 ships to be found again in 1938. Salvage workers recovered items from the sunken ship over more than 10 years. Additional gold was recovered in June 2015. The ship's location: is 24° 55.491' north, 80° 30.891' west.\n\nWalton gives the following figures in pesos. For the 300-year period the peso or piece of eight had about 25 grams of silver, about the same as the German thaler, Dutch rijksdaalder or the US silver dollar. A single galleon might carry 2 million pesos. The modern approximate value of the estimated 4 billion pesos produced during the period would come to $527,270,000,000 or €469,839,661,964 (based on silver bullion prices of May 2015). Of the 4 billion pesos produced, 2.5 billion was shipped to Europe, of which 500 million was shipped around Africa to Asia. Of the remaining 1.5 billion 650 million went directly to Asia from Acapulco and 850 million remained in the Western Hemisphere. Little of the wealth stayed in Spain. Of the 11 million arriving in 1590, 2 million went to France for imports, 6 million to Italy for imports and military expenses, of which 2.5 went up the Spanish road to the Low Countries and 1 million to the Ottoman Empire. 1.5 million was shipped from Portugal to Asia. Of the 2 million pesos reaching the Dutch Republic in that year, 75% went to the Baltic for naval stores and 25% went to Asia. The income of the Spanish crown from all sources was about 2.5 million pesos in 1550, 14 million in the 1590s, about 15 million in 1760 and 30 million in 1780. In 1665 the debts of the Spanish crown were 30 million pesos short-term and 300 million long-term. Most of the New World production was silver but Colombia produced mostly gold. After about 1730 Brazil began producing gold. The following table gives the estimated legal production and necessarily excludes smuggling which was increasingly important after 1600. The crown legally took one fifth (quinto real) at the source and obtained more through other taxes.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47272726", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47272726", "title": "Sputnik Planitia", "text": "Sputnik Planitia\n\nSputnik Planitia , originally Sputnik Planum,<ref name = \"DPS/EPSC update\"></ref> is a high-albedo ice-covered basin on Pluto, about in size, named after Earth's first artificial satellite. It constitutes the western lobe of the heart-shaped Tombaugh Regio. Sputnik Planitia lies mostly in the northern hemisphere, but extends across the equator. Much of it has a surface of irregular polygons separated by troughs, interpreted as convection cells in the relatively soft nitrogen ice. The polygons average about across. In some cases troughs are populated by blocky mountains or hills, or contain darker material. There appear to be wind streaks on the surface with evidence of sublimation. The dark streaks are a few kilometers long and all aligned in the same direction. The planitia also contains pits apparently formed by sublimation. No craters were detectable by \"New Horizons\", implying a surface less than 10 million years old. Modeling sublimation pit formation yields a surface age estimate of years. Near the northwest margin is a field of transverse dunes (perpendicular to the wind streaks), spaced about 0.4 to 1 km apart, that are thought to be composed of 200-300 μm diameter particles of methane ice derived from the nearby Al-Idrisi Montes.\n\nThe ice composing the basin is thought to consist primarily of nitrogen ice, with smaller fractions of carbon monoxide and methane ice, although relative proportions are uncertain. At Pluto's ambient temperature of , nitrogen and carbon monoxide ices are denser and much less rigid than water ice, making glacial-like flows possible; nitrogen ice is the most volatile.\n\nSputnik Planitia may have originated as an impact basin that subsequently collected volatile ices. The size of the hypothetical impactor has been estimated as 150-300 km. Alternatively, it has been suggested that the accumulation of ices in this location depressed the surface there, leading to formation of a basin via a positive feedback process without an impact.\n\nThe accumulation of several kilometers of nitrogen ice in the basin was in part a consequence of its higher surface pressure, which leads to a higher N condensation temperature. The positive temperature gradient of Pluto's atmosphere contributes to making a topographic depression a cold trap.\n\nA high seasonal thermal inertia of Pluto's surface is an important driver of deposition of nitrogen ice at low latitudes. These latitudes receive less annual insolation than Pluto's polar regions due to its high obliquity (122.5°). The coldest regions on Pluto, on average, are at 30° N. and S. latitude; early in Pluto's history, ice would tend to accumulate at these latitudes in a runaway process due to the positive feedback association of increased albedo, cooling and further ice deposition (similar to the ice segregation that occurred on Iapetus). Simulations suggest that over a period of about a million years, the runaway process would collect much of the ice into a single cap even in the absence of a preexisting basin.\n\nThe accumulation of dense nitrogen ice would have contributed to making Sputnik Planitia a positive gravity anomaly, but by itself would not have been sufficient to overcome the topographic depression associated with the basin. However, other effects of an impact event (see below) could have also contributed to such an anomaly. A positive gravity anomaly could have caused polar wander, reorienting the spin axis of Pluto to put the planitia near the Pluto-Charon tidal axis (the minimum-energy configuration). Sputnik Planitia is presently close to the anti-Charon point on Pluto, a result that has less than a 5% probability of arising by chance. If Sputnik Planitia was created by an impact, then explaining the positive gravity anomaly requires the presence of a subsurface liquid water ocean; isostatic uplift of the ocean under the basin would account for most of the anomaly. Gradual freezing of such an ocean, in combination with polar wander and the loading of Sputnik Planitia with ice, would also explain the extensional tectonic features seen across Pluto. Alternatively, if the accumulation of ice in a single cap (without an impact) created a positive gravity anomaly that reoriented Pluto prior to formation of a basin, the tidal bulge raised by Charon would tend to maintain Pluto's orientation even if the positive anomaly later disappeared.\n\nThe polygonal structure is a sign of convection of the nitrogen/carbon monoxide ice, with ice warmed by heat from the interior welling up in the center of cells, spreading and then sinking at the ridged margins. Convection cells have about 100 m of vertical relief, with the highest points being at their centers. Modeling of nitrogen ice convection cells suggests a depth of about one tenth their width, or 3–4 km for most of the planitia, and a maximum flow rate of about 7 cm per year. Cell margins can become pinched off and abandoned as cells evolve. Many of the cells are covered by Sublimation pits. These pits grow larger by sublimation during transport from the centers to the edges of convection cells. Using their size distribution, scientists have estimated a convection velocity of cm per year, implying a surface age of years.\n\nOther obvious indications of ice flow visible in images of the planitia include examples of valley-type glaciers flowing down into the basin from adjacent eastern highlands (the right lobe of Tombaugh Regio), presumably in response to deposition of nitrogen ice there, as well as ice from the planitia flowing into and filling adjacent depressions. The planitia has numerous blocky hills (one to several km across) that form aggregations at cell margins up to 20 km across; these may represent floating chunks of detached water ice crust that were carried onto the planitia by glacial flow and were then collected into troughs by the convection. In some cases the hills seem to form chains along the entry paths of glaciers. The hills may also congregate in nonconvecting regions when they get stuck at locations where the nitrogen ice becomes too shallow.\n\nThe planitia has numerous pits that are thought to result from fracturing and sublimation of nitrogen ice; these pits also collect in the margins of convection cells. Often the bottoms of the pits are dark, which may represent an accumulation of tholins left behind by the subliming ice, or a dark substrate below the planitia, if the pits penetrate all the way through the ice. In regions of the planitia where convection cells are not apparent, the pits are more numerous.\n\nOn its northwest, Sputnik Planitia is bordered by a chaotic set of blocky mountains, the al-Idrisi Montes, which may have formed via the collapse of adjacent water ice highlands onto the planitia.\n\nOn its southwest, the planitia is bordered by the Hillary Montes, rising above the surface, and, further south, the Norgay Montes, rising above the surface. These mountains also have a chaotic, blocky character. The mountains were named after Sir Edmund Hillary, New Zealand mountaineer, and Nepalese Sherpa mountaineer Tenzing Norgay, who were the first climbers to reach the summit of the highest peak on Earth, Mount Everest, on 29 May 1953. Some groups of hills in the basin are named after spacecraft; for example, “Coleta de Dados”, in honor of the first Brazilian satellite launched into space.\n\nImmediately to the southwest of the Norgay Montes () is a large, circular mountain with a central depression, Wright Mons. It has been identified as a possible cryovolcano.\n\nThe informal name \"Sputnik Planum\" was first announced by the \"New Horizons\" team on a press conference on 24 July 2015. A planum is a flat region of higher elevation (a plateau). When topographical data was analyzed in early 2016, it became clear that \"Sputnik\" is actually a basin, and the informal name was changed to \"Sputnik Planitia\" later that year.<ref name = \"DPS/EPSC update\"></ref> The name was still informal because it had not yet been adopted by the International Astronomical Union (IAU). On 7 September 2017, the name was officially approved together with the names of Tombaugh Regio and 12 other nearby surface features.\n\n"}
{"id": "19260219", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19260219", "title": "Subdivisions of Tanzania", "text": "Subdivisions of Tanzania\n\nThe administrative divisions of Tanzania are controlled by Part I, Article 2.2 of the Constitution of Tanzania. Tanzania is divided into thirty-one regions (\"mkoa in Swahili\"). Each region is subdivided into districts (\"wilaya in Swahili\"). The districts are sub-divided into divisions (\"tarafa in Swahili\") and further into local wards (\"kata in Swahili\"). Wards are further subdivided for management purposes: for urban wards into streets (\"mtaa in Swahili\") and for rural wards into villages (\"kijiji in Swahili\"). The villages may be further subdivided into hamlets (\"vitongoji in Swahili\").\n\nIn 1922 under the British Tanganyika was divided into twenty-two regions, known as \"divisions\": Arusha, Bagamoyo, Bukoba, Daressalam, Dodoma, Iringa, Kilwa, Kondoa-Irangi, Lindi, Mahenge, Morogoro, Moshi, Mwanza, Pangani, Rufiji, Rungwe, Songea, Tabora, Tanga, Ufipa, Ujiji, and Usambara.\n\nAccording to the 2012 Tanzania National Census, Tanzania was divided into 169 districts. There is one type of rural district: a \"District Council\". And there are three types of urban districts: \"Town Council\", \"Municipal Council\" and \"City Council\".\n\nA division is an administrative organization for several Wards. Every division has its own elected MP (Member of Parliament).\n\nA village is the lowest government administrative structure at the community level. In an urban area, a cluster (mtaa) can include a number of streets. A Ward (Kata) is an administrative structure for one single town or portion of a bigger town (Urban Wards). Rural wards are composed of several villages.\n"}
{"id": "4878962", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4878962", "title": "Thomas Larcom", "text": "Thomas Larcom\n\nMajor-General Sir Thomas Aiskew Larcom, 1st Baronet PC FRS (24 December 1801 – 15 June 1879) was a leading official in the early Irish Ordnance Survey that started in 1824. He later became a poor law commissioner, census commissioner and finally executive head of the British administration in Ireland as under-secretary to the Lord-Lieutenant of Ireland, a position the government of the day was eager for him to take.\n\nThe longest-serving under-secretary (1853–1868), and a man of unusual abilities, Larcom had a distinguished career in his adopted country and acted with an impartiality that won him respect from all parties. In 1868 he was admitted to the Irish Privy Council and created a Baronet.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25168972", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25168972", "title": "Traffic Separation Scheme", "text": "Traffic Separation Scheme\n\nA Traffic Separation Scheme or TSS is a traffic-management route-system ruled by the International Maritime Organization or IMO.\nThe traffic-lanes (or clearways) indicate the general direction of the ships in that zone; ships navigating within a TSS all sail in the same direction or they cross the lane in an angle as close to 90 degrees as possible.\n\nTSSs are used to regulate the traffic at busy, confined waterways or around capes. Within a TSS you normally see at least one traffic-lane in each main-direction, turning-points, deep-water lanes and separation zones between the main traffic lanes. In most TSS schemes you will find Inshore Traffic Zones between the traffic-lanes and the coast. The inshore traffic zone is unregulated and shouldn't be used for ongoing traffic. It is meant for local traffic, fishing and small craft.\n\nA ship navigating in a traffic-lane should sail in the general direction of that lane. The body of water between two opposite lanes is to be avoided by vessels travelling within the TSS as far as possible except in certain circumstances such as emergencies or for fishing activities.\n\nThe TSS rules are incorporated in the International Regulations for Preventing Collisions at Sea (Under Part B, Section I, Rule 10- Traffic Separation Schemes)\n\nAs said, when sailing within a lane of a TSS that ship has to follow the general direction of the lane. Where needed there are special zones where a lane splits into two channels: one ongoing and the other to the nearby port(s).\n\nObjectives of IMO Routeing Schemes:\n\nIf a ship wants to cross a traffic-lane it should do so at a right angle to avoid endangering ship traffic using the traffic-lanes (although traffic in the lane does not automatically have the right-of-way). To minimize the amount of time a crossing ship spend crossing the traffic-lanes, there should be a right angle between the lane direction and the keel direction - even if currents might shift the actual direction of the ship's movement to some angle other than 90 degrees.\n\nTSSs are used in locations where there is a lot of traffic (busy shipping areas) where not regulating the traffic would lead to more accidents. In Europe, many TSS areas are found around the Southern part of the North Sea including the English Channel. Other TSS are in place off Land's End and around Ouessant (Ushant).\n\nWell-known TSS locations include: The English Channel, German Bight, Singapore, and Cape Horn. The Dover Strait/Détroit du Pas de Calais was the first\nInternational Maritime Organisation (IMO) approved Traffic Separation Scheme in the world in 1967.\n\nOther TSS areas can be found in the Mediterranean Sea, western side of the Atlantic Ocean and the Pacific.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6491017", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6491017", "title": "Wildcatter", "text": "Wildcatter\n\nA wildcatter is an American term for an individual who drills wildcat wells, which are exploration oil wells drilled in areas not known to be oil fields. Notable wildcatters include Glenn McCarthy, Thomas Baker Slick, Sr. and Mike Benedum, Joe Trees, Clem S. Clarke, and Columbus Marion Joiner; the latter is responsible for finding the East Texas Oil Field in 1930.\n\nThe term dates from the early oil industry in western Pennsylvania. Oil wells in unproven territory were called \"wild-cat wells\" by 1871, and those who drilled them were called \"wild-catters\" by 1876. For instance, the Titusville \"Herald\" noted in 1880:\n\nAccording to tradition, the origin of the term in the petroleum industry comes from Wildcat Hollow, now in Oil Creek State Park near Titusville, Pennsylvania. Wildcat Hollow was one of the many productive fields in the early oil era. A speculator who risked his luck by drilling in this narrow valley shot a wildcat, had it stuffed and set it atop his derrick. The mounted cat gave its name to the hollow. Because the area was largely untested and somewhat away from Oil Creek Flats, the term Wildcatter was coined, describing a person who risked drilling in an unproven area.\n\nHowever, \"wildcat\" was American slang for any risky business venture by 1838, long before the rise of the petroleum industry. An example was the wildcat banking of the 1850s. Directors of wildcat banks in the Midwest were known as \"wild-catters\" before Edwin Drake's discovery of oil in Pennsylvania.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21052842", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21052842", "title": "Winds in the Age of Sail", "text": "Winds in the Age of Sail\n\nThe captain of a steam ship naturally chooses the shortest route to his destination. Since a sailing ship is usually pushed by winds and currents, its captain must find a route where the wind will probably blow in the right direction. Tacking, i.e. using contrary wind to pull (sic) the sails, was always possible but wasted time because of the zigzagging required, and this would significantly delay long voyages. The early European explorers were not only looking for new lands. They also had to discover the pattern of winds and currents that would carry them where they wanted to go. During the age of sail winds and currents determined trade routes and therefore influenced European imperialism and modern political geography. For an outline to the main wind systems see Global wind patterns.\n\nPilotage or cabotage, in one sense, is the art of sailing along the coast using known landmarks. Navigation, in one sense, is the art of sailing long distances out of sight of land. Although the Polynesians were able to sail the Pacific (with great difficulty) and people regularly sailed north and south across the Mediterranean, before the time of Columbus nearly all sailing was coastal pilotage.\n\nEast Asia: A Chinese or Japanese sailor who sails east finds only thousands of miles of empty ocean and a few tiny islands. The Kuroshio Current tends to push his ship northeast into the westerlies and towards North America. There are records of unlucky Japanese fishermen being blown to North America, but no records of any who sailed home. It is easy to sail south and link up with the Indian Ocean trade. North China had few ports and little coastwise trade. South China has a number of good ports but the country inland is hilly or mountainous which restricts trade.\n\nIndian Ocean and the Monsoon Trade: There are no barriers to trade along the coast between the Red Sea and Japan. Local coastal routes soon were linked and extended to Indonesia. By about 850 trade was mostly in Arab or Muslim hands. This trade brought Hinduism and later Islam to Indonesia. A great advantage in the Indian Ocean is the monsoon which blows south in the winter and north in the summer. An Arab wishing to go to Africa or Indonesia would go south on the winter monsoon and return north with the summer monsoon. In Africa this trade extended about as far as Mozambique at the southern limit of monsoon winds. Further south was a lee shore with no trade goods that could not be obtained further north. It is not clear how far south trade and geographic knowledge extended, but there is said to be a Chinese map of the thirteenth century showing Africa in roughly its true shape and there is a Venetian report from the mid-fifteenth century of a Chinese or Javanese junk seen off the southwest African coast.\n\nNorthwest Africa: A European who leaves the Strait of Gibraltar soon hits the Canary current which pushes him southwest down the African coast. He soon reaches the northeast trade winds which also push him southwest. If he leaves in late summer he will hit the trade winds sooner since wind systems move north and south with the seasons. The problem was to get back again. The solution was the volta do mar in which a captain would sail northwest across the winds and currents until he found the westerlies and was blown back to Europe.\n\nThe coast of Northwest Africa might be described as the nursery of European imperialism. Experience gained here was the basis for the sudden breakout into all the world's oceans in the 30-year period of 1492-1522. The Canary Islands were known to the ancients. They were reached by Lancelotto Malocello in 1312. Jean de Béthencourt conquered two of them in 1405 but the larger islands were not fully subdued until about 1495. The local Guanches have the distinction of being the first non-European people to be wiped out by European expansion. The volta do mar led to the discovery of uninhabited Madeira in 1419 which soon developed a trade in wine and sugar. A longer volta do mar led to the uninhabited Azores which are over 700 miles from the nearest land. Further south the Cape Verde Islands developed a system of slave-worked sugar plantations which was later exported to Brazil. The Canaries were taken by Spain and the other islands fell to Portugal. Northwest Africa was the starting point longer voyages, the Spanish heading southwest from the Canaries and the Portuguese south from Cape Verde.\n\nDown the coast of Africa: The Portuguese reached the westernmost point of Africa in 1444 and in 1458 rounded Cape Palmas where the coast tends eastward. Here the trade winds gave out and they faced the irregular winds near the doldrums and the east-flowing Guinea Current. In 1471 they reached the Gold coast where they found the gold that had previously come by caravan across the Sahara. In 1474 Lopes Gonçalves reached the point where the coast turns south and became the first European sailor to cross the equator. In 1475-79 Spain and Portugal fought along the coast. The Treaty of Alcáçovas gave the whole area to the Portuguese except for the Canaries. This was the first colonial war and the first colonial treaty. In 1482 Diogo Cão continued south against the Benguela current and the southeast trade winds, reaching the Congo River in 1482 and Cape Cross in Namibia in 1485. In 1487 Bartolomeu Dias reached Cape Voltas near the mouth of the Orange River and stood out to sea. Although the sources are not clear, he may have guessed that there were southern westerlies and was trying a volta do mar. After many days, at about 40 degrees south he discovered the westerlies and turned east. Finding no land after a number of days he turned north and reached Mossel Bay about 400 km east of Cape Town. He continued east against the Agulhas current to Algoa Bay where the coast began to turn north. Guessing that he had found the route to India, he turned back, discovered and rounded the Cape of Good Hope and reached Lisbon in 1488. In 1493 Columbus arrived at Lisbon with news of the new world and reported that he had sailed out of sight of land for five weeks. \n\nIn 1497 Vasco da Gama chose a very obvious and very bold route. After rounding the bulge of Africa he sailed directly south across the trade winds and, helped by the Brazil Current reached the roaring forties. This was by far the longest voyage yet made out of sight of land. Turning east too soon, he hit the coast and had to work his way around South Africa. Working up the coast against the Agulhas Current, at Mozambique he came in contact with the Arab monsoon trade. At Malindi he found a local pilot and used the summer monsoon to reach India in 23 days. Returning he foolishly sailed against the summer monsoon and took 132 days to reach Africa. Rounding the Cape of Good Hope, he again chose a wise and bold course. He took the southeast trade winds directly northwest across the South Atlantic to the Cape Verde Islands, the Azores, and home. Not only did Da Gama find a sea route to India, he discovered the most efficient sailing route there and back. In 1500 Pedro Álvares Cabral sailed somewhat west of Da Gama's route and bumped onto the coast of Brazil.\n\nPortuguese and Dutch in the Indian Ocean: After a few more voyages the Portuguese learned two things: that there was little market for European goods in the east, and the large Portuguese ships could outfight nearly any local craft. They therefore determined to take by force what they could not get by honest trade. Under the leadership of Afonso de Albuquerque they captured Goa in 1510 for their main base, captured Malacca in 1511 to control the Strait of Malacca, tried to block the mouths of the Red Sea and the Persian Gulf and built forts in Mozambique to pick up fresh water and wait for the summer monsoon. In 1513 they reached the Spice Islands and in 1519, the same year that Balboa first saw the Pacific, reached Canton. They continued to use the monsoon route - north with the summer monsoon and south with the winter monsoon.\n\nThe Dutch republic began its remarkable rise about 1580 during its war of independence from Spain. With the union of the two crowns in 1580 it was also at war with Portugal. In 1595 Jan Huyghen van Linschoten published previously-secret Portuguese sailing directions for the Indian Ocean. The Dutch reached Java in 1596 and the Spice Islands in 1599. In 1611 Hendrik Brouwer found a better route to the East Indies. After reaching the roaring forties he continued east almost to Australia and then swung north. This avoided Portuguese warships and greatly reduced the travel time since there was no need to wait for the monsoon. This Brouwer Route shifted the gateway to the Indies from the Strait of Malacca between Malaya and Sumatra to the Sunda Strait between Sumatra and Java and led to the foundation of Batavia in 1619. Dutch trade led to the temporary occupation of Dutch Brazil and the foundation of Cape Town as a way station on the Brouwer Route in 1652.\n\nNorth Atlantic: The European who sails west is sailing into the wind. Further north, he is sailing against the Gulf Stream. It is not clear how winds and currents were used in this region.\n\nCaribbean: Columbus underestimated the size of the earth and thought he could reach China by doing a grand volta do mar, going west on the trade winds and returning home on the westerlies. He had the right route but reached the Caribbean Sea rather than China. In 1513 Juan Ponce de León while exploring the east coast of Florida discovered the Gulf Stream. A few years later his pilot, Anton de Alaminos, used the Gulf Stream to push him north to the westerlies and return to Spain. This established the standard Spanish route to the Americas: south to the Canary Islands, west on the trade winds to the Caribbean, then beat against the wind north of Cuba using the Florida Current to the Gulf Steam, use it to go north to the westerlies which led directly home. Since wind systems move north in summer and south in winter, there is a question of the best season, which is poorly documented. The Caribbean was the gateway to Spanish America since it is the closest part of America to Europe measured in sailing days. Nearby were the riches of Mexico and, by crossing Panama, the riches of Peru.\n\nStrait of Magellan and the Pacific: Ferdinand Magellan discovered the strait which bears his name in 1519. Entering the Pacific, he used the Humboldt Current to go north to the trade winds which then blew him westward to the Philippines. One of his surviving ships tried to return east using the northern westerlies but was unable to find them and was forced to return to the East Indies. In 1565 Andrés de Urdaneta found a wind system that would reliably blow a ship eastward back to the Americas. From then until 1815 the annual Manila Galleons crossed the Pacific from Mexico to the Philippines and back. The Strait of Magellan was rarely used since it was so far out of the way. The Spanish found it more practical to build ships on the Pacific coast. Silver from Peru was carried north on the Humboldt Current to Panama and carried across the isthmus to join Spanish treasure fleet in the Caribbean. Fernandez-Armesto thinks that southbound ships stood out to sea from Panama to avoid the Humboldt Current, but offers no good evidence.\n\nCape Horn: In 1616, almost 100 years after Magellan, Willem Schouten went further south and found Cape Horn. This was a better route because it does not require navigating a narrow channel. Only after about 1780 did significant numbers of ships use the Cape Horn route. Cape Horn westbound is difficult because the wind blows from the west and the east-bound Antarctic Circumpolar Current is forced through the gap between Tierra del Fuego and Antarctica. The nineteenth century Clipper Ship Route went from Europe southward to the roaring forties, took them to Australia, and continued east around Cape Horn and returned to England.\n\n\nFelipe Fernandez-Armesto. Pathfinders: A Global History of Exploration, 2006\n"}
{"id": "469460", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=469460", "title": "‘Aziziya District", "text": "‘Aziziya District\n\n‘Aziziya or El Azizia ( \"Al ʿAzīzīyah\") was one of the districts of Libya (\"baladiyah\"), located in the northwest of the country, south of Tripoli District. The town of ‘Aziziya was the former district's capital, and it covered an area of 1,940 square kilometers. In 2001 ‘Aziziya became part of the Jafara District.\n\nOn 13 September 1922, a temperature of was recorded in the city of ‘Aziziya. This was long believed to be the highest temperature ever to be recorded naturally on Earth.\n\nMeteorological parameters began to be recorded in Libya during the Ottoman Empire (1551–1911). Temperature archives for some old meteorological stations are available in the climate directorate at the Libyan National Meteorological Centre (LNMC).\n\nTowns in the former ‘Aziziya District:\n\n"}
