{"id": "41452537", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41452537", "title": "A Slower Speed of Light", "text": "A Slower Speed of Light\n\nA Slower Speed of Light is a freeware video game developed by MIT Game Lab that demonstrates the effects of special relativity by gradually slowing down the speed of light to a walking pace. The game runs on the Unity engine using the own open source OpenRelativity toolkit.\n\nIn \"A Slower Speed of Light\", the player controls the ghost of a young child who was killed in an unspecified accident. The child wants to \"become one with light\", but the speed of light is too fast for the child. This is solved through the use of magic orbs which, as each are collected, slow down the speed of light, until by the end it is at walking speed. These orbs are spread throughout the level. At the beginning of the game, walking around and collecting these orbs is easy; however, as the game progresses, the effects of special relativity become apparent. This gradually increases the difficulty of the game.\n\nAs the game progresses and light becomes slower, the effects of special relativity start to become more apparent. These effects include the Doppler effect (red/blue-shifting of visible light and the shifting of ultraviolet and infrared into the visible spectrum), the searchlight effect (increased brightness in the direction of travel), time dilation (difference between the passage of time perceived by the player and the outside world), the Lorentz transformation (the perceived warping of the environment at near-light speeds), and the runtime effect (seeing objects in the past because of the speed of light). These effects combine as the game progresses to increase the difficulty and challenge the player.\n\nOpenRelativity is a toolkit designed for use with the Unity game engine. It was developed by MIT Game Lab during the development of \"A Slower Speed of Light\". The toolkit allows for the accurate simulation of a 3D environment when light is slowed down. It is hosted on GitHub and has been published under the permissive MIT license.\n\n\"A Slower Speed of Light\" was developed in hopes of being used as an educational tool to explain special relativity in an easy-to-understand fashion. The game is meant to be used as an interactive learning tool for those interested in physics.\n\n"}
{"id": "2825141", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2825141", "title": "Almaty International School", "text": "Almaty International School\n\nAlmaty International School (AIS) in Kazakhstan is a private non-profit institution that opened in August 1993. It offers education in English for preschool (3–4 years), elementary, middle, and secondary students. The school year consists of three terms extending from late August until mid-June. The school is located on nearly seven hectares of land on the edge of Almaty, the largest city in Kazakhstan.\n\nStudents come from 45 countries around the world including Kazakhstan, South Korea, United States, Russia, Canada, and many others. The school offers a mastery-learning program with a curriculum similar to that of U.S. public and private schools. \nWhile instruction is in English, language classes are offered in French, Spanish, and Russian. For Kazakh citizens, Kazakh language, history, and geography classes are required. Subjects include Literature, History, Geography, Mathematics, Biology, Chemistry, Physics, Technology, and electives.\n\nAs of June, 2016, the enrollment is 549 students.\n\nActivities for elementary students include outdoor sports, indoor games, creative drama, dance, model making, sewing, needlepoint, crochet painting, drawing, art and crafts, storytelling, puzzles, board games, science activities, computer simulations, and bookmaking. Older students can be involved in drama, soccer, volleyball, and basketball after school.\n\nClubs in AIS for middle school and secondary students include National Honor Society, Tuck Shop (a student-run store during break time), Student Council AIS, Helping Hands (a volunteer philanthropy club), Roots and Shoots (a volunteer club focused on the making AIS environmental friendly as well as doing environmental service projects around Almaty), Youth x Women Club (founded in 2017-18 school year by Aiganym \"Aiko\" Sadykova that helps underprivileged women in Almaty), Yearbook Club, and Debate Club (founded and led by an experienced coach from St. Louis, Mr. Adam Saligman). AIS also has junior varsity, varsity and elementary sports teams. Sports vary through seasons. The sports offered at AIS are cross country, soccer, basketball, volleyball, track and field, ping pong, badminton, swimming, and debate.\n\nDuring Central Asian Soccer Classic (CASC) 2017, JV Boys Soccer Team earned second place in their division. Varsity Girls A team finished third, and Varsity Boys A team finished third as well.\nThe cross-country season came to its culmination during the Central Asian Cross-Country Classic (CAXC) at Tien Shan and CEESA (Central and Eastern European Schools Association) meet in Tbilisi. AIS dominated the CAXC, grabbing first places, while in Tbilisi JV AIS team finished third overall, and AIS Varsity team finished second overall.\nIn November 2017, 5 students from Debate Club went to World Scholar's Cup's Tournament of Champions held at Yale University. While all 5 of students earned medals for various achievements, Sultan Kamysbayev ranked in the Top 50 (of over 1000 qualifying students from around the world) in several of the academic subjects, and Alice Gilman earned a gold medal in debate, writing, a couple of the academic subjects, and ranked #62 overall (factoring in every event in the World Scholar's Cup), out of again, over 1000 students. Additionally, she was chosen for the Showcase Debate, based on her performance in the competition and delivered a sterling performance for all the students, coaches, and parents to watch.\nStudents are expected to achieve mastery grades of \"A\" or \"B\". Student evaluations, called \"status reports\", are issued five times each year at the end of each \"Quintile\". Data is electronically entered regularly and parents may request a status report at any time. Quality Schools International teaches their students the success orientations which include actions such as concern for others, kindness and politeness, aesthetic appreciation, independent endeavor, group interaction, responsibility, and trustworthiness. When students achieve mastery in any of these sections they receive an \"E\" for exemplary work, otherwise, a student may receive an \"S\" for success or an \"N\" for not yet achieved.\n\n-Concerns for others\n-Responsibility\n-Group Interaction\n-Aesthetic Appreciation \n-Independent Endeavor\n-Kindness and politeness \n-Trustworthiness\n\nThe first QSI school was founded in 1971 in Sana'a, Yemen. AIS was opened in September 1993. After 10 years, the school moved to a large purpose-built facility on a large piece of land on the edge of the city. The new school has two main buildings, one annex, a middle school building, two playground areas, tennis courts, two gyms, and a professional soccer field with a running track.\n\nAlmaty International School has been accredited through the Middle States Association of Colleges and Schools, Pennsylvania, USA.\n\nSome classes are mandatory for graduation. Extra courses may be needed to apply for an academic diploma or an academic diploma with honors.\n\nStarting in middle school (6th-8th grades) students have the choice between three languages: French, Spanish or Russian. Two years of foreign languages are mandatory for the academic and academic diploma with honors in secondary. Kazakh language, history, and geography classes are mandatory for all Kazakh nationals in this school.\n\nThe required courses for the diplomas are listed below:<br>\nGeneral Diploma:\n *Writing I & II\n *Algebra I &II\n *Physical Science\n *World Geography\n *Drama, Music and/or Art (choose two of the three)\n *Fitness\n\nAcademic Diploma:\n\nIn addition to General Diploma requirements:\n *American Literature\n *U.S. History\n\nAcademic Diploma with Honors:\n\nAdd any two Advanced Placement courses listed below:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58111406", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58111406", "title": "Anti-corruption", "text": "Anti-corruption\n\nAnti-corruption (or anticorruption) comprises activities that oppose or inhibit corruption. Just as corruption takes many forms, anti-corruption efforts vary in scope and in strategy. A general distinction between preventive and reactive measures is sometimes drawn. In such framework, investigative authorities and their attempts to unveil corrupt practices would be considered reactive, while education on the negative impact of corruption, or firm-internal compliance programs are classified as the former. Legal and moral frameworks to reduce corruption date back to antiquity and gained broad international support since the last decade of the 20th century.\n\nThe code of Hammurabi (), the Great Edict of Horemheb (), and the Arthasastra (2nd century BC) are among the earliest written proofs of anti-corruption efforts. All of those early texts are condemning bribes in order to influence the decision by civil servants, especially in the judicial sector. During the time of the Roman empire corruption was also inhibited, e.g. by a decree issued by emperor Constantine in 331.\n\nIn ancient times, moral principles based on religious beliefs were common, as several major religions, such as Buddhism, Christianity, Hinduism, Islam, Judaism, Sikhism, and Taoism condemn corrupt conduct in their respective religious texts. The described legal and moral stances were exclusively addressing bribery but were not concerned with other aspects that are considered corruption in the 21st century. Embezzlement, cronyism, nepotism, and other strategies of gaining public assets by office holders were not yet constructed as unlawfully or immoral, as positions of power were regarded a personal possession rather than an entrusted function. With the popularization of the concept of public interest and the development of a professional bureaucracy in the 19th century offices became perceived as trusteeships instead of property of the office holder, leading to legislation against and a negative perception of those additional forms of corruption. Especially in diplomacy and for international trad purposes, corruption remained a generally accepted phenomenon of the political and economic life throughout the 19th and big parts of the 20th century.\n\nIn the 1990s corruption was increasingly perceived to have a negative impact on economy, democracy, and the rule of law, as was pointed out by Kofi Annan. Those effects claimed by Annan could be proven by a variety of empirical studies, as reported by Juli Bacio Terracino. The increased awareness of corruption was widespread and shared across professional, political, and geographical borders. While an international effort against corruption seemed to be unrealistic during the Cold War, a new discussion on the global impact of corruption became possible, leading to an official condemnation of corruption by governments, companies, and various other stakeholders. The 1990s additionally saw an increase in press freedom, the activism of civil societies, and global communication through an improved communication infrastructure, which paved the way to a more thorough understanding of the global prevalence and negative impact of corruption. In consequence to those developments, international non-governmental organizations (e.g. Transparency International) and inter-governmental organizations and initiatives (e.g. the OECD Working group on bribery) were founded to overcome corruption.\n\nSince the 2000s, the discourse became broader in scope. It became more common to refer to corruption as a violation of human rights, which was also discussed by the responsible international bodies. Besides attempting to find a fitting description for corruption, the integration of corruption into a human rights-framework was also motivated by underlining the importance of corruption and educating people on its costs.\n\nIn national and in international legislation, there are laws interpreted as directed against corruption. The laws can stem from resolutions of international organizations, which are implemented by the national governments, who are ratifying those resolutions or be directly be issued by the respective national legislative.\n\nLaws against corruption are motivated by similar reasons that are generally motivating the existence of criminal law, as those laws are thought to, on the one hand, bring justice by holding individuals accountable for their wrongdoing, justice can be achieved by sanctioning those corrupted individuals, and potential criminals are deterred by having the consequences of their potential actions demonstrated to them.\n\nApproaching the fight against corruption in an international setting is often seen as preferential over addressing it exclusively in the context of the nation state. The reasons for such preference are multidimensional, ranging from the necessary international cooperation for tracing international corruption scandals, to the binding nature of international treaties, and the loss in relative competitiveness by outlawing an activity that remains legal in other countries.\n\nThe OECD Anti-Bribery Convention was the first large scale convention targeting an aspect of corruption, when it came in 1999 into force. Ratifying the convention obliges governments to implement it, which is monitored by the OECD Working Group on Bribery. The convention states that it shall be illegal bribing foreign public officials. The convention is currently signed by 43 countries. The scope of the Convention is very limited, as it is only concerned with active bribing. It is hence more reduced than other treaties on restricting corruption, to increase – as the working group's chairman Mark Pieth explained – the influence on its specific target. Empirical research by Nathan Jensen and Edmund Malesky suggests that companies based in countries that ratified the convention, are less likely to pay bribes abroad. The results are not exclusively explainable by the regulatory mechanisms and potential sanctions triggered through this process but are equally influenced by less formal mechanisms, e.g. the peer reviews by officials from other signatories and the potentially resulting influences on the respective country's image. Groups like TI, however, also questioned whether the results of the process are sufficient, especially as a significant number of countries is not actively prosecuting cases of bribery.\n\n20 years before the OECD convention was ratified, the United Nations discussed a draft for a convention on corruption. The draft on an international agreement on illicit payments proposed in 1979 by the United Nations Economic and Social Council did not gain traction in the General Assembly, and was not pursued further. When the UN Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC) presented its draft of the United Nations Convention against Corruption (UNCAC) in 2003, it proved more successful. UNCAC was ratified in 2003 and became effective in 2005. It constitutes an international treaty, currently signed by 186 partners, including 182 member states of the United Nations and four non-state signatories. UNCAC has a broader scope than the OECD Anti-Bribery Convention, as it does not exclusively focus on public officials but includes inter alia corruption in the private sector and non-bribery corruption, like e.g. money laundering and abuse of power. UNCAC also specifies a variety of mechanisms to combat corruption, e.g. international cooperation in detecting and prosecuting corruption, the cancellation of permits, when connected to corrupt behavior, and the protection of whistleblowers. The implementation of UNCAC is monitored by the International Association of Anti-Corruption Authorities (IAACA)\n\nMark Lawrence Wolf floated in 2012 the idea to launch an International Anti-Corruption Court, as either a part of the already existing International Criminal Court, or as an equivalent to it. The suggestion was widely discussed and endorsed by a variety of NGOs including Global Organization of Parliamentarians Against Corruption (GOPAC), Global Witness, Human Rights Watch, the Integrity Initiatives International (III), and TI. An implementation of the concept is currently not scheduled by any organizations with the authority of conducting such step.\n\nIn 2011, the International Anti-Corruption Academy was created as an intergovernmental organization by treaty to teach on anti-corruption topics.\n\nMany other intergovernmental organizations are working on the reduction of corruption without issuing conventions binding for its members after ratification. Organizations that are active in this field include, but are not limited to, the World Bank (such as through its Independent Evaluation Group), the International Monetary Fund (IMF), and regional organizations like the Andean Community (within the framework of the ).\n\nThe first convention adopted against corruption by a regional organization was the Organization of American States' (OAS) Inter-American Convention Against Corruption (IACAC). The Convention, which targeted both active and passive bribing, came into force in 1997. It is currently ratified by all 34 active OAS-Member States.\n\nIn 1997 the European Union (EU) adopted the EU Convention against corruption involving officials, which makes it illegal to engage in corrupt activities with officials from the European Union's administrative staff, or with officials from any member state of the EU. It forces the signatories to outlaw both active and passive bribing which involves any aforementioned official. Liability for unlawful actions is extend to the heads of those entities, whose agents were bribing officials.\n\nEuropean states also ratified the Council of Europe's Criminal and Civil Law Convention on Corruption, which were adopted in 1999. The former was an addition extended by passing the Additional Protocol to the Criminal Law Convention on Corruption. The two conventions on criminal law were signed by Belarus and all Council of Europe members, with the exception of Estonia, which abstains from the Additional Protocol. The Criminal Law Convention is currently by 48 States, while the Additional Protocol is signed by 44 countries. Both conventions are aiming at the protection of judicial authorities against the negative impact of corruption.\n\nThe convention on Civil Law is currently ratified by 35 countries, all of which are, with the exception of Belarus, members of the Council of Europe. As the name implies, it requires the States Parties to provide remedies for individuals materially harmed by corruption. The individual who was negatively impacted by an act of corruption is entitled to rely on laws to receive compensation from the culprit or the entity represented by the culprit, explicitly including the possibility of compensation from the state, if the corrupt deed was perpetrated by an official. The anti-corruption efforts by the Council of Europe are supervised and supported by the Group of States Against Corruption (GRECO) as its main monitoring organization. Membership to GRECO is open to all countries worldwide and is not conditional on membership at CoE.\n\nSince its launch in 2003, the African Union's Convention on Preventing and Combating Corruption was ratified by 38 States Parties. It represents the consensus of the signatories on minimal standards for combating corruption. The resolution was criticized in the Journal of African Law for disregarding other aspects of the rule of law, like e.g. data protection and the presumption of innocence.\n\nWhile bribing domestic officials was criminalized in most countries even before the ratification of international conventions and treaties, many national law systems did not recognize bribing foreign officials, or more sophisticated methods of corruption as illegal. Only after ratifying and implementing above mentioned conventions the illegal character of those offenses was fully recognized. Where legislation existed prior to the ratification of the OECD convention, the implementation resulted in an increased compliance with the legal framework.\n\nCorruption is often addressed by specialized investigative or prosecution authorities, often labelled as anti-corruption agencies (ACA) that are tasked with varying duties, subject to varying degrees of independence from the respective government, regulations and powers, depending on their role in the architecture of the respective national law enforcement system. One of the earliest precursors of such agencies is the anti-corruption commission of New York City, which was established in 1873. A surge in the numbers of national ACAs can be noted in the last decade of the 20th and the first decade of the 21st century.\n\nAlready at the foundation of the United States discussions on the possibility of preventing corruption were held, leading to increased awareness for corruption's threads. Article 1, Section 9 of the Constitution can be seen as an early anti-corruption law, as it outlawed the acceptance of gifts and other favors from foreign governments and their representatives. Zephyr Teachout argued that giving and receiving presents held an important role in diplomacy but were often seen as potentially dangerous to a politician's integrity. Other early attempts to oppose corruption by law were enacted after the end of World War II. The Bribery and Conflict of Interest Act of 1962 for example regulates the sanctions for bribing national officials, respectively the acceptance of bribes by national officials, and the abuse of power for their personal interest. The Hobbs Act of 1946 is another law frequently applied by US-American prosecutors in anti-corruption cases. Prosecutors are using the act by arguing that the acceptance of benefits for official acts qualifies as an offence against the act. Less frequently laws to prosecute corruption through auxiliary criminal activities include the Mail Fraud Statute and the False Statements Accountability Act.\n\nIn 1977, the United States of America adopted the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA), which criminalized corrupt interactions with foreign officials. Since its implementation, the law served to prosecute domestic and foreign companies, who bribed officials outside of the United States. As no other country implemented a similar law up to the 1990s, US-American companies faced disadvantages for their global operations. In addition to the legal status of corruption abroad, many countries also treated bribes as tax-deductible. Through applying the law to companies with ties to the United States and by working on global conventions against foreign bribery, the government of the US tried to reduce the negative impact of FCPA on US-American companies.\n\nAlongside the FCPA, additional laws were implement that are directly influencing anti-corruption activities. Section 922 of the Dodd–Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act for instance extents the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 by a new Section 21F that protects whistleblowers from retaliation and grants them financial awards them when collaborating with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Conway-Hatcher et al. (2013) attributed an increase the number of whistleblowers, who are reporting to SEC, inter alia on corruption incidents to the provision.\n\nThe TI's last report on enforcement of the OECD Convention against bribery published in 2014 concluded that the United States are complying with the convention.\n\nThe United Kingdom was a founding member of the OECD working group on bribery and ratified the Anti-Bribery Convention, but faced significant problems in complying to its findings and the convention. It was severely affected by the Al-Yamamah arms deal, in which the British company BAE Systems faced allegations of having bribed members of the Saudi royal family to facilitate an arms deal. British prosecution of BAE Systems was stopped after an intervention by than Prime Minister Tony Blair, which caused the OECD working group to criticize the British anti-corruption laws and investigations.\n\nThe UK Bribery Act of 2010 came into force on July 1, 2011, and replaced all former bribery-related laws in the United Kingdom. It is targeting bribery and receiving bribes, both towards national and foreign public officials. Furthermore, it is assigning responsibility to organizations whose employees are engaging in bribing and hence obliges companies to enforce compliance-mechanisms to avoid bribing on their behalf. The Bribery Act goes in many points beyond the US-American FCPA, as it also criminalizes facilitation payments and private sector corruption inter alia. Heimann and Pieth are arguing that British policy makers supported the Bribery Act to overcome the damage in reputation caused by the Al-Yamamah deal. Sappho Xenakis and Kalin Ivanov on the other hand claim that the negative impact on the UK's reputation was very limited.\n\nTransparency International stated in 2014 that the United Kingdom fully complied to the OECD Convention against Bribery.\n\nCanada remained one of the last signatories of the OECD-convention on bribery that did not implement its national laws against bribes for foreign officials. While the Corruption of Foreign Public Officials Act (CFPOA) was passed in 1999, it was often not used to prosecute foreign bribery by Canadian companies, as the bill had a provision that the act of bribery had to have a \"real and substantial link\" with Canada. Such provision was canceled in 2013 by the Bill S-14 (also called Fighting Foreign Corruption Act). Additionally, Bill S-14 banned facilitation payments and increased the possible punishment for violating the CFPOA. An increase in the maximum prison sentence for bribery to 14 years was one of the increases in sanctioning. According to TI's report from 2014, Canada is moderately enforcing the OECD Convention against bribery.\n\nIn the wake of economic liberalization, corruption increased in China because anti-corruption laws were insufficiently applied. The anti-corruption campaign that started in 2012, however, changed the relation towards corruption. This campaign led to increased press coverage of the topic and a sharp increase in court cases dedicated to the offense. The campaign was primarily led by the Central Commission for Discipline Inspection (CCDI), an internal body of the Communist Party and secondarily by the People's Procuratorate. CCDI cooperated with investigative authorities in several ways, such as passing incriminating material detected by its internal investigation, to prosecutors.\n\nThe underlying legal regulations for the campaign is rooted in provisions of the Anti-Unfair Competition Law and the criminal law.\n\nAfter signing the OECD-Convention on Combating Bribery of Foreign Public Officials, Japan implemented the Unfair Competition Prevention Act (UCPA) to comply with the convention. The law states that it is illegal to bribe foreign public officials. The individual who was offering the bribes and the company on whose behalf the bribes were offered may face negative consequences. The Company Act also enables the punishment of senior management if the payment was made possible by their negligence. Transparency International criticized Japan in 2014 for not enforcing the law, hence only complying to the convention on paper and providing no consequences to offenders. Nevertheless, a study conducted by Jensen and Malesky in 2017 provides empirical evidence that Japanese companies are less involved in bribery than companies based in other Asian countries that did not sign the convention.\n\nValues education is believed to be a possible tool to teach about the negative effects of corruption and to create resilience against acting in a corrupt manner, when the possibility of doing so arises. Another stream of thought on corruption prevention is connected to the economist Robert Klitgaard, who developed an economic theory of corruption that explains the occurrence of corrupt behavior by producing higher gains than the assumed punishment it might provoke. Klitgaard accordingly argues for approaching this rational by increasing the costs of corruption for those involved by making fines more likely and more severe.\n\nAs corruption incidences often happen in the interaction between representatives of private sector companies and public officials, a meaningful step against corruption can be taken inside of public administrations. The concept of good governance can accordingly be applied to increase the integrity of administrations, decreasing hence the likelihood that officials will agree on engaging in corrupt behavior. Transparency is one aspect of good governance. Transparency initiatives can help to detect corruption and hold corrupt officials and politicians accountable.\n\nAnother aspect of good governance as a tool to combat corruption lies in the creation of trust towards state institutions. Gong Ting and Xiao Hanyu for instance argue that citizens, who have a positive perception of state institutions are more likely to report corruption related incidents than those, who espress lower levels of trust.\n\nEven though sanctions seem to be underwritten by a legal framework, their application is often lying outside of a state-sponsored legal system, as they are frequently applied by multilateral development banks (MDB), state agencies, and other organizations, who are implementing those sanctions not through applying laws, but by relying on their internal bylaws. World Bank, even though reluctant in the 20th century to use sanctions, turned into a major source of this specific kind of applying anti-corruption measures. the involved MDBs are typically applying an administrative process that includes judicial elements, when a suspicion about corruption in regard to the granted projects surfaces. In case of identifying a sanctionable behavior, the respective authority can issue a debarment or milder forms, e.g. mandatory monitoring of the business conduct or the payment of fines.\n\nExcluding companies with a track record of corruption from bidding for contracts, is another form of sanctioning that can be applied by procurement agencies to ensure compliance to external and internal anti-corruption rules. This aspect is of specific importance, as public procurement is both in volume and frequency especially vulnerable for corruption. In addition to setting incentives for companies to comply with anti-corruption standards by threatening their exclusion from future contracts, the internal compliance to anti-corruption rules by the procurement agency has central importance. Such step should according to anti-corruption scholars Adam Graycar and Tim Prenzler include precisely and unambiguously worded rules, a functional protection and support of whistleblowers, and a system that notifies supervisors on an early base about potential dangers of conflicts of interest or corruption-related incidents.\n\nMichael Johnston, among others, argued that non-governmental organizations (NGOs), Civil Society Organizations (CSOs), and the media can have an efficient influence on the level of corruption. More over, Bertot et al. (2010) extended the list of potentially involved agents of civil society by introducing the notion of decentralized, non-formally organized anti-corruption activism through social media channels.\n\nTaking into consideration that precise and comprehensive definitions of corrupt actions are lacking, the legal perspective is structurally incapable of efficiently ruling out corruption. Combined with a significant variety in national laws, frequently changing regulations, and ambiguously worded laws, it is argued that non-state actors are needed to complement the fight against corruption and structure it in a more holistic way.\n\nAn example for a more inclusive approach to combating corruption that goes beyond the framework set by lawmakers and the foremost role taken by representatives of the civil society is the monitoring of governments, politicians, public officials, and others to increase transparency. Other means to this end might include pressure campaigns against certain organizations, institutions, or companies. Investigative journalism is another way of identifying potentially corrupt dealings by officials. Such monitoring is often combined with reporting about it, in order to create publicity for the observed misbehavior. Those mechanisms are hence increasing the price of corrupt acts, by making them public and negatively impacting the image of the involved official. One example for such strategy of combating corruption by exposing corrupt individuals is the Albanian television show \"Fiks Fare\" that repeatedly reported on corruption by airing segments filmed with hidden cameras, in which officials are accepting bribes.\n\nAnother sphere for engagement of civil society is the prevention by educating about the negative consequences of corruption and a strengthening of ethical values opposing corruption. Framing corruption as a moral issue used to be the predominant way of fighting it but lost importance in the 20th century as other approaches became more influential. The biggest organization in the field of civil societal opposition towards corruption is the globally active NGO Transparency International (TI). NGOs are also providing material to educate practitioners on anti-corruption. Examples for such publications are the rules and suggestions provided by the International Chamber of Commerce (ICC), the World Economic Forum (WEF), and TI. Persistent work by civil societal organizations can also go beyond establishing a knowledge about the negative impact of corruption and serve as way to build up political will to prosecute corruption and engage in counter-corruption measures.\n\nOne prominent field of activism for non-state actors (NSAs) is the area of international asset recovery, which describes the activity of returning property to its legitimate owners after it was illegally acquired through corrupt actions. The process describes the whole procedure from gathering information on the criminal offence that initiated the transfer of assets, over their confiscation to their return. While recovery is mandated by UNCAC, it is not an activity singularity conducted by governments but attracts actors with different backgrounds, including academia, the media, CSOs, and other non state actors. In this field of anti-corruption activism, representatives of the civil society are often taking a different stance than in other areas, as they are regularly consulted for assisting administrations with their respective expertise and are hence enabling state actions. Such strong role of NSAs was also recognized by UNCAC's States Parties.\n\nInstead of relying purely on deterrence, as suggested by Robert Klitgaard (see section on prevention), economists are pursuing the implementation of incentive structures that reward compliance and punish the non-fulfillment of compliance rules. By aligning the self-interest of the agent with the societal interest of avoiding corruption, a reduction in corruption can thus be achieved.\n\nThe field of compliance can generally be perceived as an internalization of external laws in order to avoid their fines. The adoption of laws like the FCPA and the UK Bribery Act of 2010 strengthened the importance of concepts like compliance, as fines for corrupt behavior became more likely and there was a financial increase on these fines. When a company is sued because its employers engaged in corruption, a well-established compliance system can serve as proof that the organization attempted to avoid those acts of corruption. Accordingly, fines can be reduced and this incentivizes the implementation of an efficient compliance system. In 2012, the US-authorities decided not to prosecute Morgan Stanley in a case of bribery in China under FCPA-provisions due to its compliance program. This case demonstrates the relevance of the compliance approach. \n\nAnti-corruption collective action is a form of collective action with the aim of combatting corruption and bribery risks in public procurement. It is a collaborative anti-corruption activity that brings together representatives of the private sector, public sector and civil society. The idea stems from the academic analysis of the prisoner's dilemma in game theory and focuses on establishing rule-abiding practices that benefit every stakeholder, even if unilaterally each stakeholder might have an incentive to circumvent the specific anti-corruption rules. Transparency International first floated a predecessor to modern collective action initiatives in the 1990s with its concept of the \"Island of Integrity\", now known as an integrity pact. According to Transparency International, \"collective action is necessary where a problem cannot be solved by individual actors\" and therefore requires stakeholders to build trust and share information and resources.\n\nThe World Bank Institute states that collective action \"increases the impact and credibility of individual action, brings vulnerable individual players into an alliance of like-minded organizations and levels the playing field between competitors.\n\nAnti-corruption collective action initiatives are varied in type, purpose and stakeholders but are usually targeted at the supply side of bribery. They often take the form of collectively agreed anti-corruption declarations or standard-setting initiatives such as an industry code of conduct. A prominent example is the Wolfsberg Group and in particular its \"Anti-Money Laundering Principles for Private Banking and Anti-Corruption Guidance\", requiring the member banks to adhere to several principles directed against money laundering and corruption. The mechanism is designed to protect individual banks from any negative consequences of complying with the strict rules by collectively enforcing those regulations. The Wolfsberg Group in addition serves as a back-channel for communication between the compliance officers of the participating banks. The World Economic Forum's initiatives against corruption can also be seen in this framework. Other initiatives in the field of collective action include the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI), Construction Sector Transparency Initiative/Infrastructure Transparency Initiative (CoST) and International Forum on Business Ethical Conduct (IFBEC). Collective action is included in the national anti-corruption statements of the UK, France and Ghana, delivered at the International Anti-Corruption Conference 2018.\n\nThe B20 policy interventions are another form of engaging in the anti-corruption discourse, as B20 members are attempting to support the G20 by offering their insights as business leaders, including in regard to strengthening anti-corruption policies, e.g. transparency in government procurement or more comprehensive anti-corruption laws. In 2013, the B20 mandated the Basel Institute on Governance to develop and maintain the B20 Collective Action Hub, an online platform for anti-corruption collective action tools and resources including a database of collective action initiatives around the world. The B20 Collective Action Hub is managed by the Basel Institute's International Centre for Collective Action (ICCA) in partnership with the UN Global Compact.\n\nAnother tangible outcome of the B20 meetings was the discussion (and implementation as a test case in Colombia) of the High Level Reporting Mechanism (HLRM), which aims to implement a form of ombudsman office in a high-level government position for companies to report possible bribery or corruption issues in public procurement tenders. As well as Colombia, the HLRM concept has been implemented in different ways in Argentina, Ukraine and Panama.\n\nSylvie Bleker-van Eyk from VU University Amsterdam sees value in the implementation of strong compliance departments in the respective company. Fritz Heimann and Mark Pieth are described the environment where those departments are working, as being in a best cased monitored from outside experts. Another measure that – according to Heimann and Pieth – supports the work of compliance officers is when the company is joining collective action initiatives. Instruments like ethical codes can serve as underlying documents to promote support for anti-corrupt corporate policies. Seumas Miller et al. (2005) also stress the process of reaching the aspired result, which should include an open discussion among the employees of a company, in order to implement steps that are approved by consent inside of the company. Such shift in culture can be implemented through and accompanied by exemplary behavior by top management, regularly conducted training programs on anti-corruption and a constant monitoring of the development in those sections.\n\nInternational Anti-Corruption Day has been annually observed on December 9 since the United Nations established it in 2003 to underline the importance of anti-corruption and provide visible sign for anti-corruption campaigns.\n\n"}
{"id": "36473498", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36473498", "title": "Board of Amsterdam Museums", "text": "Board of Amsterdam Museums\n\nThe Board of Amsterdam Museums (OAM) is a board of private and public museums in Amsterdam.\nThe board became active in the 1980s. All members are registered museums and members of the Dutch Museum Association.\nOAM has a chosen chair and vice-chair. The present (2010–present) chair is Michiel Buchel (director NEMO) and the vice-chair is Judikje Kiers (director of Amsterdam Museum and Museum Willet-Holthuysen. The board meets four times a year.\n\nThe foundation Samenwerkende Amsterdamse Musea (SAM) represents the collective business interests of the board of OAM. Bjorn Stenvers is the director of SAM.\n\nThe present 44 members are:\n"}
{"id": "47161674", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47161674", "title": "Bosiljka Janjusevic", "text": "Bosiljka Janjusevic\n\nBosa Janjusevic, MA is psychologist and Gestalt psychotherapist, researcher, advanced yoga teacher, general secretary of the International Society for Scientific Interdisciplinary Research, secretary of the Editorial Board of International Scientific Yoga Journal \"Sense\", coordinator for international cooperation of the European Yoga Federation, representative of the Yoga Federation of Austria and lecturer at the International Yoga Academy. \nShe studied Clinical Psychology and she obtained her master's degree at the Department of Applied Psychology with the theme \"Consciousness in Gestalt Psychotherapy\". She is PhD candidate in Personality Psychology at the Alpen-Adria University, Klagenfurt-Graz-Wien, Austria with thesis in the field of yoga and self-regulation. \nShe holds Yoga Teachers Certificate of the International Yoga Academy (2006), Corporate Yoga Teacher (2013), Yoga Energy Therapist (2014) and she is designer of the program Yoga in Psychotherapy (2010).\n\nShe currently works as Gestalt psychotherapist and yoga teacher in Vienna, Austria and lecturer and creator of the programs Yoga Psychology and Yoga Concentration at the International Yoga Academy. She is professional associate of the Psycho-Oncology Counseling Group for Women (meditation, relaxation and breathing techniques) and the magazines \"Yoga, Diabetes, Mum&Baby\" and \"Biomagazine\", published by the Color Press Group, Novi Sad. Her fields of interest are emotional intelligence, empathy, self-regulation, human resources, locus of control, personality maturation and development in adulthood, feeling of fulfillment and satisfaction in life, concentration, decision making.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11148114", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11148114", "title": "Center for Community Change", "text": "Center for Community Change\n\nCommunity Change, formerly The Center for Community Change (CCC), is a progressive community organizing group active in the United States. It was founded in 1968 in response to civil rights concerns of the 1960s and to honor Robert F. Kennedy. The organization's stated mission is \"to build the power and capacity of low-income people, especially low-income people of color, to change their communities and public policies for the better.\" Community Change has received funding from the Democracy Alliance and the Tides Advocacy Fund. \n\nCommunity Change generally works in low-income areas, especially within communities of color, and attempts to create resident-based groups to work on local issues of concern. The organization sponsors internships and training programs in several areas, including community organizing, service learning, union organizing, electoral engagement, and youth/student organizing. The organization provides resources for grassroots groups including campaign strategy, funding and social media strategy. In 2004, through the collaboration with immigrant groups, Community Change organized the Fair Immigration Reform Movement that \"empowered immigrants to speak out.\" Community Change has helped to create government programs like the Community Reinvestment Act and the food stamps program.\n\nThe organization seeks to create workplace environments that value family, to guarantee minimum wage, \"unlock opportunities in the poorest communities, and increase income taxes for the wealthy.\n\nThe Center for Community Change launched the Fair Immigration Reform Movement (FIRM), an immigration reform movement working for comprehensive immigration reform. FIRM received funding from the Open Society Foundations and the Ford Foundation.\n\n"}
{"id": "4149770", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4149770", "title": "Centre for Studies on Inclusive Education", "text": "Centre for Studies on Inclusive Education\n\nThe Centre for Studies on Inclusive Education (CSIE) is an independent centre and registered charity based in the United Kingdom which aims to promote inclusion in education. As part of their work, they publish booklets on inclusive practice, and summaries of laws related to inclusion.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53543968", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53543968", "title": "Chester E Groth Music Company", "text": "Chester E Groth Music Company\n\nChester E Groth Music Company was founded in 1939 in downtown Minneapolis, Minnesota by professional musician Chester E. Groth. Prior to opening Groth Music, he was a cornetist in the United States Navy Band, and he also performed under the direction of John Philip Sousa. In addition to importing and selling musical instruments, music lessons were provided by Mr. Groth and his staff. Groth's daughter Nancy Groth-Kersten assumed ownership of the company in 1985 when it moved to Bloomington, Minnesota. In 2013, Groth Music acquired Music Products Inc. from Elmhurst, Illinois, expanding its nationwide service to school music programs. In 2014 the company acquired Eble Music Company from Iowa City, Iowa, which expanded Groth Music's printed music division.\n"}
{"id": "50032073", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50032073", "title": "Computer Science Teachers Association", "text": "Computer Science Teachers Association\n\nThe Computer Science Teachers Association (CSTA) is a professional association whose mission to “empower, engage and advocate for K-12 CS teachers worldwide.” It supports and encourages education in the field of computer science and related areas. Started in 2004, CSTA supports computer science education in elementary schools, middle schools, high schools, higher education, and industry.\n\nTogether with the Association for Computing Machinery (ACM), the CSTA offers the ACM/CSTA Cutler-Bell Prize in High School Computing. The award provides four $10,000 scholarships to each of four winners along with travel to a reception each February.\n\nCSTA publishes a set of recommended Computer Science Standards for kindergarten through high school.\nCSTA the Association for Computing Machinery publish an interactive State-By-State map showing the degree to which the recommended computer science standards have been included in the state educational standards.\n\nCSTA recommendations for computer science education include beginning introductory lessons as early as kindergarten. A recent report by Association for Computing Machinery and the \"CSTA, Running on Empty: The Failure to Teach K-12 Computer Science in the Digital Age\", found that in the United States, most high schools count computer science as an elective and most secondary schools have few educational standards related to computer science.\n\nCSTA is one of the participating organizations in the Code.org Advocacy Coalition (previously called Computing in the Core (CinC)). \nThe Code.org Advocacy Coalition is a group of organizations that works on public outreach and advocacy to encourage additional support for computer science in the core curriculum and includes members such as Microsoft, Google, Facebook, Anita Borg Institute for Women and Technology, Computing Research Association, and others.\n\nCSTA has more than 50 chapters in the United States and international affiliates in Israel, New Zealand, and the United Kingdom.\n\nCSTA publishes a bi-monthly newsletter, the CSTA Voice, that highlights issues related to computer science education.\n\nThe 2017–2018 CSTA Board of Directors consists of:\n\nCSTA Committees include: \n\n\n"}
{"id": "52579966", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52579966", "title": "Critical theory of maker education", "text": "Critical theory of maker education\n\nCritical theory of maker education asserts that maker education curriculum and pedagogy necessarily aligns itself with the greater educational imperative (as described in the \"Critical Pedagogy Primer\") that \"questions of democracy and justice cannot be separated from the most fundamental features of teaching and learning\" (p. 5). Foundational Critical Theorists like Paulo Freire in his seminal work, \"Pedagogy of the Oppressed\", stressed the need for a new relationship between teacher, student, and school, that would cultivate in students radical liberation from the political injustices that oppress them. Maker education is another avenue by which radical liberation is possible.\n\nScholars Shirin Vossoughi and Paula K. Hooper of Northwestern University, and Meg Escude of Exploratorium, offer an in-depth look at the ways in which maker education reinforces educational inequality by perceiving learners from backgrounds that are not \"grounded in gendered, white, middle-class cultural practices\" through the deficit lens of the culture of poverty. Not only do Vossoughi, Hooper, and Escude critique maker education as it is currently practiced, they also offer proposed solutions for \"equity-oriented design\" of maker experiences which include, \"critical analyses on educational injustice, historicized approaches to making as cross-cultural activity, explicit attention to pedagogy, and inquiry into the sociopolitical values and purposes of making\".\n\nIn his article \"A more lovingly made world\", McKenzie Wark of The New School writes that the problem with maker culture is that makers don't actually make things, they assemble them. While this experience is satisfying and fun (and Wark does acknowledge the way in which his children are not hemmed in by gender expectations while playing at the Maker Faire), it doesn't teach the underlying principles required for the actual making of functional objects. It also does not, though Chris Anderson and Mark Hatch evoke Marx in their Maker manifestos, map accurately onto an understanding of labor, and certainly not the life of the laborer.\n\nAlessandro Carelli, Massimo Bianchini, and Venanzio Arquilla of the Politecnico di Milano argue that maker culture presents a \"maker contradiction\" in which DIY producers in the \"so-called Third Industrial Revolution\" become post-production consumers, further reinforcing hierarchies of social, political, and economic power.\n"}
{"id": "354128", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=354128", "title": "DBLP", "text": "DBLP\n\nDBLP is a computer science bibliography website. Starting in 1993 at the University of Trier, Germany, it grew from a small collection of HTML files and became an organization hosting a database and logic programming bibliography site. DBLP listed more than 3.66 million journal articles, conference papers, and other publications on computer science in July 2016, up from about 14,000 in 1995. All important journals on computer science are tracked. Proceedings papers of many conferences are also tracked. It is mirrored at three sites across the Internet.\n\nFor his work on maintaining DBLP, Michael Ley received an award from the Association for Computing Machinery and the VLDB Endowment Special Recognition Award in 1997.\n\n\"DBLP\" originally stood for \"DataBase systems and Logic Programming\". As a backronym, it has been taken to stand for \"Digital Bibliography & Library Project\"; however, it is now preferred that the acronym be simply a name, hence the new title \"The DBLP Computer Science Bibliography\".\n\nUsers of dblp remain unaffected by some additional attributes in the DTD , which are meant to support future versions of the data file. Thus consumers of the raw dblp.xml file should update their local dblp.dtd file, according to the notice on the home page, .\n\n\"DBL-Browser\" (\"Digital Bibliographic Library Browser\") is a utility for browsing the DBLP website. The browser was written by Alexander Weber in 2005 at the University of Trier. It was designed for use off-line in reading the DBLP, which consisted of 696,000 bibliographic entries in 2005 (and in 2015 has more than 2.9 million).\n\nDBL-Browser is GPL software, available for download from SourceForge. It uses the XML DTD. Written in Java programming language, this code shows the bibliographic entry in several types of screens, ranging from graphics to text:\n\nDBLP is similar to the bibliographic portion of arxiv.org which also links to articles. DBL-Browser provides a means to view some of the associated computer science articles.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14487752", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14487752", "title": "Defence Technical Undergraduate Scheme", "text": "Defence Technical Undergraduate Scheme\n\nThe Defence Technical Undergraduate Scheme (DTUS) is a university sponsorship programme for students who want to join the Royal Navy, British Army, Royal Air Force or Engineering and Science branch of the Ministry of Defence (MOD) Civil Service as technical officers after they graduate; Army sponsored students are destined for either the Royal Corps of Signals, Royal Electrical and Mechanical Engineers, Royal Engineers or The Royal Logistic Corps. Students on the scheme are sponsored by the MOD to study accredited technical degree programmes.\n\nThe DTUS was created following the 2001 Defence Training Review (DTR). The DTR identified that the Royal Navy, British Army, Royal Air Force and MOD Civil Service had difficulties in recruiting engineering officers. As a result, DTUS was created whereby sponsored students study at eleven partner universities (Aston, Birmingham, Cambridge, Imperial College, Loughborough, Newcastle, Northumbria, Portsmouth, Southampton and Strathclyde). DTUS is expected to reach and maintain a strength of eight hundred students in September 2016.\n\nThe aim of DTUS is ‘to educate and develop selected individuals to prepare them for further training and careers as engineer or technical officers in the Armed Forces or as graduate entrants to the MOD Civil Service’.\n\nDTUS students are able to choose the partner university they wish to study at and select a degree course that has been approved by their sponsoring service. Whilst at their partner university, all students belong to a support unit who are responsible for their leadership development, mentorship and administration. They also closely monitor academic progress, to that end the commanding officer of each support unit has visiting lecturer status at their university to support this. There are four support units throughout the UK:\n\n\nEach support unit is commanded by the same equivalent rank from each service; Taurus and Trojan Squadrons – lieutenant colonel, Thunderer Squadron – commander and Typhoon Squadron – wing commander. There are a Royal Navy lieutenant, an Army captain and a Royal Air Force flight lieutenant working as training officers in each squadron. Additionally at each squadron there is an SNCO and a civilian administrator. Assisting at each squadron are in-service degree officers who are commissioned officers reading for a degree at the partner university.\n\nEach military sponsored student is a member of their respective service reserve forces (and holds a Service number) and holds the rank of officer cadet (midshipman for Royal Navy-sponsored students). All students receive an annual bursary and also receive training pay for the activities that they participate in. In return, students are expected to remain physically fit (pass an annual fitness assessment known as a PFA), advance each academic year and serve for a minimum of three years in the Armed Forces or MOD Civil Service after graduating from Initial Officer Training (IOT).\n\nThe majority of entrants on the DTUS are graduates of the Defence Sixth Form College (Welbeck) near Woodhouse, Leicestershire. However, students studying or scheduled to study an approved degree at either of the partner universities may also apply to join the scheme as a Direct Entrant (DE)\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29350308", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29350308", "title": "Edna Garabedian", "text": "Edna Garabedian\n\nEdna Garabedian is an American operatic mezzo-soprano, voice teacher, and opera director.\n\nBorn to Armenian immigrants to the United States in Fresno, California, Garabedian studied singing with William Vennard at the University of Southern California, Lotte Lehmann at the University of California, Santa Barbara, Anna Hamlin in New York City, and Rosa Ponselle in Baltimore. In 1961 she won the Metropolitan Opera National Council Auditions. She made her professional opera debut in 1965 as Santuzza in Pietro Mascagni's \"Cavalleria rusticana\" with the New York City Opera. She went on to sing leading roles with the Baltimore Opera Company, the Bavarian State Opera, the Frankfurt Opera, the Houston Grand Opera, the Lyric Opera of Chicago, the San Diego Opera, the San Francisco Opera, the Staatsoper Stuttgart, the Staatstheater Kassel, and Theater Bonn among others.\n\nIn 2000 Garabedian founded the California Opera Association of which she currently remains Artistic Director. She is a former faculty member of the voice departments at American University, California State University, Fresno, Northern Illinois University, and the University of San Francisco.\n"}
{"id": "27807461", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27807461", "title": "Education in Second Life", "text": "Education in Second Life\n\nSecond Life is used as a platform for education by many institutions, such as colleges, universities, libraries and government entities.\n\nThere are over one hundred regions used for educational purposes covering subjects such as chemistry and English. Instructors and researchers in Second Life favor it because it is more personal than traditional distance learning. Research published in 2007 suggested that development, teaching and/or learning activities using Second Life were present in over 80 percent of UK universities. As of 2008, at least 300 universities around the world teach courses or conduct research in SL. New educational institutions have also emerged that operate exclusively within Second Life, taking advantage of the platform to deliver content to a worldwide audience at low cost.\n\nDue to the announced closure of Teen Second Life in 2010-2011, many derivative OpenSimulator grids have been established for hosting educational projects.\n\n\"Info Islands\" uses library programming sponsored by the Illinois' Alliance Library System and OPAL currently offered online to librarians and library users within Second Life. Another virtual continent called \"SciLands\" is devoted to science and technology education. While initially centered on the International Spaceflight Museum, it now hosts a number of organizations including NASA, NOAA, NIH, JPL, NPR, National Physical Laboratory, UK, and a host of other government agencies, universities, and museums. In December 2008, the United States Air Force launched MyBase, a Second Life island overseen by the Air Education and Training Command.\n\nSecond Life's usefulness as a platform for pre-K–12 education is limited due to the age restrictions on the main grid and the difficulties of collaborating among various educational projects on the teen grid. New approaches to fostering collaboration on the teen grid, such as the \"Virtual World Campus\", offer some hope of overcoming some of these obstacles. For now, however, the primary utility of Second Life for pre-K–12 education is in the education and professional development of teachers and school librarians. Still, K–12 educators use Second Life to meet each other and to create objects and structures that help them develop curriculum, as EnergyTeachers.org does with its Sustainability Energy Science Lab.\n\nErnst & Young made a $500,000 donation to the North Carolina State University Accounting Department to implement Second Life into the curriculum in 2009. This funding was utilized by Frank A Buckless along with Mr. Scott Showalter and Dr. Kathy Krawczyk to create a virtual warehouse for their students to audit. The data collected from this study showed that students improved “inventory observation knowledge, interviewing, audit documentation, critical thinking, and group work skills”. This project follows incorporation of cost and financial accounting activities in virtual environments.\n\nLanguage learning is the most widespread type of education in virtual worlds, with many universities, mainstream language institutes and private language schools using 3D virtual environments to support language learning.\n\nSecond life has been utilized in nursing education to provide meaningful care experience without risk to patients.\n\nDr. Constance M. Johnson received a R21 award to evaluate the feasibility and acceptability of using a virtual environment to provide self-management interventions to people with type 2 diabetes.\n\nDr. Estelle Codier (University of Hawaii) received a National League for Nursing grant award to study learning outcomes for student nurses in Second Life. Her book, \"Teaching Healthcare in Virtual Space: Best Practices for Educators in Multi-User Virtual Environments\" provides an outline of the pedagogical basis for teaching in MUVE, as well as chapters on development of MUVE teaching skills and others on how to develop learning activities in Second Life. July, 2016.\n\nSecond Life has twice, in 2007 and 2010, banned a California educational institution, Woodbury University, from having a representation within Second Life. On 20 April 2010 four simulators belonging to the university were deleted and the accounts of several students and professors terminated, according to \"The Chronicle of Higher Education\". Dr. Edward Clift, the dean of Woodbury University's School of Media, Culture and Design, stated that their campus \"was a living, breathing campus in Second Life\", that included educational spaces designed mostly by students, including a mock representation of the former Soviet Union and a replica of the Berlin Wall. \nAs Dr. Clift told \"The Chronicle of Higher Education\", the virtual campus did not \"conform to what Linden Lab wanted a campus to be\". Linden Lab said their decision to ban Woodbury University in April 2010 was \"based on historical and recent events that constitute a breach of the Second Life community standards and terms of service.\"\n\nThe university has since moved to a separate, dedicated OpenSimulator grid.\n\nAnnabeth Robinson is a Second Life performer and educator who lectures at Leeds College of Art. She develops tools and techniques for improving virtual environment education including the widely used MetaLab Whiteboard. '\n\nRobin Winter aka Shukran Fahid / Shukran Serendipity has worked with several organisations including Immersive Education and Imperial College to produce a number of training programmes for schools, universities, the NHS and the Ministry of Defense using both Second Life and Open Sim. Currently the CEO of Warm Winter Arts, he is bringing virtualisation into mobile applications and biological sciences.\n\nEstelle Codier\n\nDr. Estelle Codier is an Associate Professor at the University of Hawaii who has supervised over 500 health care learning activities in Second Life. Her book, \"Teaching Healthcare in Second Life: Best Practices for Educators in Multi User Virtual Environments\" outlines a pedagogical basis for teaching in Second Life and provides guidelines for developing teaching skills and learning activities in MUVE. July, 2016\n\nCodier, Estelle( 2016) Teaching Healthcare in Virtual Space: Best Practices for Educators in Multi-User Virtual Environments. University of Hawaii Press: Honolulu.\n\n"}
{"id": "8248531", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8248531", "title": "Emotional and behavioral disorders", "text": "Emotional and behavioral disorders\n\nEmotional and behavioral disorders (EBD; also known as behavioural and emotional disorders (ICD-10); sometimes called emotional disturbance or serious emotional disturbance) refer to a disability classification used in educational settings that allows educational institutions to provide special education and related services to students that have poor social or academic adjustment that cannot be better explained by biological abnormalities or a developmental disability. \n\nThe classification is often given to students, after conducting a Functional Behavior Analysis. These students need individualized behavior supports such as a Behavior Intervention Plan, to receive a free and appropriate public education. They would not be eligible for an individualized education program under another disability category of the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (IDEA).\n\nThe IDEA requires that a student must exhibit one or more of the following characteristics over a long duration, and to a marked degree that adversely affects their educational performance, to receive an EBD classification:\n\nThe term \"EBD\" includes students diagnosed with schizophrenia, but does not apply to students who are \"socially maladjusted\", unless it is determined that they also meet the criteria for an EBD classification.\n\nProviding or failing to provide an EBD classification to a student may be controversial, as the IDEA does not clarify which children would be considered \"socially maladjusted\", but ineligible for an individualized education program under an EBD classification. Some states do not allow students with a psychiatric diagnosis of conduct disorder to receive additional educational services under an EBD classification, although many students with an EBD classification do meet the diagnostic criteria for various disruptive behavior disorders, including attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), oppositional defiant disorder (ODD), or conduct disorder (CD). Additionally, students considered \"socially maladjusted\", but ineligible for an EBD classification (i.e., students diagnosed with conduct disorder), often receive better educational services in special education classrooms or alternative schools with high structure, clear rules, and consistent consequences, which they would not receive in general education settings. The ambiguous guidelines for determining what students are \"socially maladjusted\", but without EBD, may cause many students that would benefit from special education services to receive less effective educational services.\n\nStudents with EBD are a diverse population, and have a wide range of intellectual and academic abilities. Males, African-Americans, and economically disadvantaged students are overrepresented in the EBD population, and students with EBD are more likely to live in single-parent homes, foster homes, or other non-traditional living situations. They also tend to have low rates of positive social interactions with students and peers in instructional contexts, and many have one or more comorbid psychiatric diagnoses. Students with EBD are often categorized as \"internalizers\" (e.g., have poor self-esteem, or are diagnosed with an anxiety disorder or mood disorder) or \"externalizers\" (e.g., disrupt classroom instruction, or are diagnosed with disruptive behavior disorders such as oppositional defiant disorder and conduct disorder). Male students may be overrepresented in the EBD population because they tend to exhibit disruptive externalizing behavior that interferes with classroom instruction, whereas females more commonly exhibit internalizing behavior that does not interfere with classroom instruction; thus, teachers may refer males for special education services more often than females. Students with EBD are also at an increased risk for learning disabilities, school dropout, substance abuse, and juvenile delinquency.\n\nA person with EBD with \"internalizing\" behavior may have poor self-esteem, suffer from depression, experience loss of interest in social, academic, and other life activities, and may exhibit non-suicidal self-injury or substance abuse. Students with internalizing behavior may also have a diagnosis of separation anxiety or another anxiety disorder, post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD), specific or social phobia, obsessive–compulsive disorder (OCD), panic disorder, and/or an eating disorder. Some research suggests students with EBD with internalizing behavior are underdiagnosed; teachers are more likely to write referrals for students that are overtly disruptive, and screening tools to detect students with high levels of internalizing behavior are not sensitive and are rarely used in practice.\n\nStudents with EBD with \"externalizing\" behavior may be aggressive, noncompliant, extroverted, or disruptive, and generally \"act out\" inappropriately. Students with EBD that show externalizing behavior are often diagnosed with attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), oppositional defiant disorder (ODD), conduct disorder, and/or bipolar disorder; however, this population can also include typically developing children that have learned to exhibit externalizing behavior for various reasons (e.g., escape from academic demands or access to attention). These students often have difficulty inhibiting emotional responses resulting from anger, frustration, and disappointment, and may exhibit behaviors such as insulting, provoking, threatening, bullying, cursing, and fighting, along with other forms of aggression; noncompliance with and disrespect towards teachers and other authority figures is also common. Male students with EBD exhibit externalizing behavior more often than their female counterparts.\n\n"}
{"id": "27384937", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27384937", "title": "ExploreLearning", "text": "ExploreLearning\n\nExploreLearning is a Charlottesville, Virginia-based company which operates a large library of interactive online simulations for mathematics and science education in grades 3–12. These simulations are called Gizmos. The company's website describes their library of over 450 Gizmos as the world's largest collection of such materials.\n\nExploreLearning also makes Reflex, which is an online, game-based system that helps students of all ability levels to develop instant recall of basic math facts (addition, subtraction, multiplication, and division).\n\nExploreLearning is a business unit of Cambium Learning Group ().\n\n\"Gizmos\" are a collection of online interactive simulations that are operated by ExploreLearning. The simulations are centered on science education and mathematics.\n\nThese simulations have been recognized with many educational awards. The Gizmos earned finalist honors from the Software and Information Industry Association. They have been the subject of numerous scholarly studies of educational technology.\n\n\"Reflex\" is an adaptive, game-based solution for assessing and developing math fact fluency in grade 2-8 students. Reflex has been recognized with many educational awards, including the \"Best K-12 Instructional Solution\" Codie award from the Software and Information Industry Association.\n\n"}
{"id": "18903354", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18903354", "title": "General Archive of the Nation (Argentina)", "text": "General Archive of the Nation (Argentina)\n\nThe General Archive of the Nation (in Spanish: \"Archivo General de la Nación\") are the national archives of Argentina. It is a body under the Ministry of the Interior, Public Works and Housing, which aims to collect, order and keep the documentation that the law entrusts to it, to spread knowledge of the sources of Argentine history.\n\nThe archives were established on August 28, 1821, by Governor Martín Rodríguez as the Buenos Aires Province Archive. The institution (AGN) absorbed numerous historical archives, libraries, and other collections over the subsequent decades, and in 1957 acquired the National Print Archive, a bureau established in 1939. Its collections occupy around 14 km (9 mi) of shelf stacks, and the AGN is a member of the Memory of the World Programme, a UNESCO initiative.\n\nOperated by the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the AGN is organized into five departments:\n\n\nHoused within the former Congress building in 1906, the AGN was relocated to its present address at 246 Leandro Alem Avenue (a former National Mortgage Bank office designed by Arturo Prins, and completed in 1920), upon the inaugural of the new Mortgage Bank building in 1950.\n\nThe headquarters cannot house the entirety of its vast collections, which include over of shelves of documentation; the Intermediate Archive, for instance, was opened in another, nearby building. Plans were announced for the archives' transfer to the former ALEA Building, a Rationalist structure located behind the Alas Building that was ultimately sold to developer IRSA in 1998. Construction was approved in 2012 for a new main building for the AGN, designed by Fabio Estremera, Luciana Deschamps and Javier Gavernet, and to be located on the site of the former Caseros Prison in the Parque Patricios district.\n\nhttps://www.youtube.com/user/AgnArgentina\n\n"}
{"id": "18931008", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18931008", "title": "Hidrodoe", "text": "Hidrodoe\n\nHidrodoe is a science museum dedicated to water and located in the \"Netepark\" Herentals, Belgium. The central part of Hidrodoe consists of \"Waterworld\" where the visitor can have experiences and perform experiments with regard to water. The \"Waterworld\" itself comprises the \"Drop\", the \"What Is Water Zone\", the \"History Cave\", the \"Landscape\" and the \"Aqua Station\".\n\nHidrodoe was founded by Pidpa (\"Provinciale en Intercommunale Drinkwatermaatschappij van de Provincie Antwerpen\") the water supply company of the Antwerp province. Hidrodoe was declared open to the public on the World Day for Water 2003.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28862826", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28862826", "title": "Hilde Holger", "text": "Hilde Holger\n\nHilde Boman-Behram (née Hilde Sofer, stage name Hilde Holger; 18 October 1905 – 24 September 2001) was an expressionist dancer, choreographer and dance teacher whose pioneering work in integrated dance transformed modern dance.\n\nHolger came from a liberal Jewish family. She was born in 1905, the daughter of Alfred and Elise Sofer Schreiber. Her father wrote poetry, and had died by 1908. Her grandfather made shoes for the Austrian court.\n\nAfter Nazi Germany invaded Austria, Holger fled Vienna in 1939, because her entry into England was denied, she went to India. In Mumbai she met the homeopath and art loving Dr. Ardershir Kavasji Boman-Behram, they married in 1940. Her mother, step-father and fourteen other relatives all perished in the Holocaust.\n\nHilde Holger had two children. The first was born 1946 in India, her daughter Primavera Boman-Behram. In New York she became a dancer, sculptor and jewelry designer. In 1948 Holger's family emigrated to Britain. Her second child, a son named Darius Boman-Behram, was born in 1949. He had Down syndrome, but inspired Holger to work with physically disabled people.\n\nHilde Holger started to dance at age six. At that time she was too young to join the \"Vienna State Academy of Music and Dramatic Art\", so she settled for ballroom dancing lessons taken with her sister (Hedi Sofer), until she was accepted to study with radical dancer Gertrud Bodenwieser, then a professor at the Vienna State Academy. They were admirers of the work of Isadora Duncan and Ruth St. Denis, as well as the artists of the Secession. Holger soon rose to be Bodenwieser's principal dancer and friend, and toured with Bodenwieser's company all over Western and Eastern Europe. She toured with her own Hilde Holger Dance Group as well. At age eighteen she had her first solo performance in the Viennese Secession. Later in the Viennese Hagenbund and theaters in Vienna, Paris and Berlin, her much-lauded expressionist dance caused quite a stir. Because of her passion for dance, in 1926 she formed the New School for Movement Arts in Palais Ratibor, right in the heart of Vienna. Her children's performances were danced in parks and in front of monuments there.\n\nOn 12 March 1938 Adolf Hitler's Nazi Germany sent troops into Austria, and adopted a law to unify the country with Austria, at that time it was forbidden for Jews to perform. She received help to flee Austria from her friend Charles Petrach. She decided to go to India because that country's art was the most compelling to Western people, she said at that time.\n\nIn India she had the opportunity to incorporate new experiences into her work, especially the hand movements of Indian dance. Classical Indian dance has over three hundred of them, used to express life and nature. In 1941 Holger founded a new school of dance in Bombay, she took students of all race, religion and nationality without prejudice. Like when she was in Vienna, Holger again took part in the artistic community. Amongst her friends whom collaborated with her were the Indian dancers Uday Shankar and Ram Gopal, the later of whom danced in Holger's dance school. In 1948 because of the partition of India and the growing violence between Muslims and Hindus she emigrated again, this time to Britain.\n\nOnce in England, her Holger Modern Ballet Group performed in parks, churches and theaters. She again opened a new dance school, \"The Hilde Holger School of Contemporary Dance\" and remained faithful to their style of teaching that the body and mind must form one unit in order to be a good dancer. Her breakthrough in London, 1951, celebrated Holger with the premiere of \"Under the Sea\", inspired by the composition by Camille Saint-Saens.\n\nIn 1972 she performed a piece titled \"Man against flood\", it was in honour of the Chinese Communist Party member Rewi Alley. It included dancers forming a human wall against a flood of water.\n\nHer performance \"Apsaras\" (1983) explored her experiences in India. In the summer of 1983 she went back to India, where she had been last in the year 1948. There she worked as a choreographer for a large dance group directed by Sachin Shankar.\n\nHolger was particularly proud of her work with the mentally handicapped. She created a form of dance therapy for children who, like her son Darius, have Down syndrome. Holger was the first choreographer who mixed professional dancers with young adults with severe learning disabilities. In 1968 at the Sadler's Wells, Holger orchestrated \"Towards the Light\", with music by Edvard Grieg. It was pioneering, innovative, and one of the first integrated dance pieces to be seen on a professional stage.\n\nHilde Holger left a lasting impression on three generations of dancers and choreographers. While teaching her standards were high and she was not afraid of risk. She accepted students without prejudice, including students with disabilities, as long as they were sincere. One of her students, Wolfgang Stange, continued her work with people with learning difficulties, like Down syndrome and autism, as well as people with physical disabilities. Stange's Amici Dance Theatre Company which was the first physically integrated dance company in Great Britain, which created a performance titled \"Hilde\" that was performed at the Riverside Theatre in London in 1996, and at the Odeon in Vienna in 1998. This HILDE Performance in Vienna excited the Ballet Master of the Vienna State Opera Ballet, who in turn put a performance on the stage of the Opera House with people with learning disabilities. These performances were received with great applause!\n\nIn her last few weeks Holger still held dance lessons in her basement studio in Camden, London, where she lived for more than fifty years. Among some of her students included Lindsay Kemp, Liz Aggiss, Jane Asher, Royston Maldoom and Carl Campbell.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31935738", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31935738", "title": "Jade Mitchell", "text": "Jade Mitchell\n\nJade Mitchell is a fictional character from the Australian soap opera \"Neighbours\", played by Gemma Pranita. Pranita's casting was announced on 7 September 2010 and she began filming her first scenes the day before. The actress was in Russia when she received a call from her agent about the audition for \"Neighbours\". She returned to Australia and her agent managed to get her in on the last day. Pranita won the part of Jade and she was given a twelve-month contact with the show. She relocated to Melbourne for filming and she made her first screen appearance as Jade during the episode broadcast on 10 December 2010. In June 2012, Pranita announced her departure from \"Neighbours\". She filmed her final scenes in August and departed on 29 October 2012.\n\nJade is the younger sister of Sonya Mitchell (Eve Morey). Prior to her arrival in Erinsborough, Jade had not seen Sonya for seven years. Pranita revealed that Jade was holding onto one of Sonya's darkest secrets and that she would have the potential to cause trouble for her. Jade has been described as \"vivacious, confident and beautiful\" by a writer for the official \"Neighbours\" website. She is an opinionated feminist, who has a fighting spirit. While Jade is flirtatious and a bit of a maneater, Pranita said she is \"anti-relationships\" and more interested in finding fun. Jade is a personal trainer and Pranita chose to take up an exercise routine for the role.\n\nJade's early storylines often saw her trying to mend the rocky relationship she had with her sister and bond with her nephew, Callum Jones (Morgan Baker), who she \"loves and adores\". Other storylines have revolved Jade's relationships with men. She immediately clashed with Sonya's partner and kissed Lucas Fitzgerald (Scott Major) shortly after her arrival. She had a one-night stand with Mark Brennan (Scott McGregor) and developed feelings for her housemate, Kyle Canning (Chris Milligan). The couple initially entered into a friends with benefits arrangement and Jade began an affair with Malcolm Kennedy (Benjamin McNair). Kyle and Jade later started a serious relationship together.\n\nOn 7 September 2010, a reporter for the \"Herald Sun\" announced Pranita had joined the cast of \"Neighbours\" as Jade Mitchell. They said Pranita's character would arrive on Ramsay Street to expose a secret held by her sister, Sonya (Eve Morey). Pranita was in Russia researching Anton Chekhov when her agent called her about an audition for \"Neighbours\". She told a writer for Channel 5 \"They were holding auditions and I happened to be in Russia doing a Chekhov pilgrimage because I'd received a grant. I just thought, oh well, it's not to be but then I came back and my agent called and said I can squeeze you in on the last day. So within a week I was moving cities.\" Pranita was initially given a twelve-month contact and she began filming her first scenes on 6 September. She made her first on screen appearance as Jade in December 2010. During an interview published the \"Neighbours\" official website, Pranita revealed that she had found the filming schedule was \"quite full-on\" and that she was still getting used to the early starts.\n\nJade has been described as being \"vivacious, confident and beautiful\" by a writer for the official \"Neighbours\" website. She has a flirtatious side and a \"fighting spirit\", which means nothing will stand in her way. Jackie Brygel, writing for \"TV Week\", said Jade \"clearly isn't backward in coming forward when it comes to getting what she wants in life.\" Pranita told Brygel that Jade is a feminist and a bit of a man eater. The actress believed that she was not that similar to her character, saying \"She is very opinionated which I can be, but I don't think I'm brash with my ideas or assert my ideas on to people which she does.\" Pranita also said Jade is \"anti-relationships\" and more interested in having fun, whereas she has been in a relationship for five years. However, when she was asked about what she would like to see in Jade's future, Pranita said she wanted her to meet a love interest who \"really challenges her and breaks her down a bit, because she's a little bit of a martyr.\"\n\nJade is a personal trainer and a \"fitness freak\". Pranita took up exercise during her research for the role, something she had not done before, and commented that she had enjoyed it. In May 2011, Pranita confessed that she had not been able to maintain Jade's fitness routine and that, while she was still into it, her filming schedule had increased. The actress also revealed that she had found that she now shared some similar personality traits with her character. Pranita admitted that she and Jade hide their vulnerability and they do not like putting their \"issues onto other people\". In July 2011, executive producer, Susan Bower revealed Jade would continue to be a \"naughty girl\" and that she was hiding a dark secret. Pranita teased the storyline further saying Jade was too proud to share her secret with anyone and initially only the audience would know what the secret was. Viewers would also see Jade go on a \"self-destructive path and becomes involved with an older man.\"\n\nDuring an August 2011 interview with Digital Spy's Daniel Kilkelly, Pranita said she was pleased with how the audience had responded to her character considering she was a \"big personality\". Pranita quipped that viewers had forgiven her \"brash approach\" and said they liked having a strong female character around. Asked if she had managed to put her own stamp on the character, Pranita revealed \"I think there has been a marriage between the work I've done and what the writers have created, so we have inspired each other. Jade has developed into exactly what I would like her to be.\" Pranita said she was pleased that Jade was getting her own storylines away from her sister, as it gives her the opportunity to discover new things about her character. She added that Jade was starting to become tri-dimensional and the audience were learning that she is quite complex. Pranita later called her character \"beautifully flawed\".\n\nBefore her arrival in Erinsborough, Jade had been estranged from her sister for seven years. Jade calls Sonya out of the blue and Pranita explained \"Sonya's response is 'Why are you calling me? Why now? Don't come anywhere near me!' But Jade keeps ringing and harassing Sonya and then rocks up on her doorstep.\" Jade's appearance on her doorstep sends Sonya into a panic. Pranita told \"TV Week's\" Jackie Brygel that the history between Jade and Sonya is bad and that Jade is \"holding one of Sonya's darkest secrets\". Pranita believed that Jade had the potential to cause a lot of trouble for Sonya and expose her for lying to the people around her. She added that Jade would \"completely rock the boat.\" Morey revealed that the last time Sonya saw her younger sister was when she left her son, Callum (Morgan Baker) with their grandmother, Hilda (Maureen Edwards). Sonya believes that Jade has come to Erinsborough to get \"some revenge.\" When Jade learns that Sonya has been living with Callum and that he is unaware of who she really is, she urges her sister to tell him the truth. However, after seeing how happy the family is, Jade changes her mind.\n\nPranita stated that Jade and Sonya's relationship was initially very \"rocky\", but after Jade sees how happy her sister is, she becomes \"fiercely supportive\" of her. Pranita said \"It's almost the Mitchell sisters against Ramsay Street.\" Of her role in the Sonya/Callum storyline, Pranita told a writer for the show's official website \"I was overwhelmed and completely intimidated, especially since Jade is such a confident character. I was so nervous and terrified but I had to exude confidence which was really hard. But at the same time it was thrilling. I was definitely thrown in the deep end with a bang.\" Susan Bower said Jade \"loves and adores\" her sister and nephew and she quipped that the audience could tell Jade is \"not a cold fish.\" Jade does not initially get on well with Sonya's partner, Toadfish Rebecchi (Ryan Moloney). Pranita said both characters struggle with each other. She told a reporter for Channel 5 \"It's a very push-pull relationship and they can both be quite fiery so they really lay into each other.\" Jade and Toadie eventually learn they both have a secret passion for board games and they begin to bond with one another. When Sonya suffers a pregnancy scare she immediately confides in Jade, who is \"level-headed\" about the situation. She encourages her sister to take a second pregnancy test just to be sure. Pranita later stated that Jade and Sonya would continue to support each other as sisters.\n\nWhen Pranita was asked which character she would like Jade to start a relationship with, she chose Kyle Canning (Chris Milligan). She thought Jade and Kyle's contrasting personalities would work together, saying \"They're opposites and personally, I really enjoy working with Chris. I think the characters can learn a lot from each other. Jade is very worldly and smart and Kyle has a more simple and uncomplicated nature.\" Jade eventually develops feelings for Kyle and Pranita believed her character's feelings were for real and said it had taken her by surprise. Jade and Kyle share a house together and on the night of their housewarming party they kiss, making Jade fall for Kyle even more. However, she is frustrated when Kyle reveals that he still sees her as a friend. Pranita told a Channel 5 reporter that Jade is trying to fight her feelings for Kyle because she is terrified of relationships, however she does want him. Jade decides to \"let go of her reservations\" and gets dressed up to make a move on Kyle. They have sex and Kyle suggests they engage in a friends with benefits arrangement to which Jade agrees. Pranita told an \"Inside Soap\" journalist that Jade agrees to the arrangement as it is her way of working Kyle out of her system, but the opposite happens and she falls in love with him. Kyle is unaware of Jade's feelings for him and he flirts with local nurse, Danielle Paquette (Georgia Bolton), in front of her. Jade becomes jealous and Pranita said she has never been affected like that before and is unsure how to handle it.\n\nJade's situation gets worse as her new housemate, Rhys (Ben Barber), notices how uncomfortable she is around Kyle and Danielle. Rhys confronts Jade and she denies her interest in Kyle because she is scared Rhys will tell him. Of this, Pranita said \"Deep down, she's afraid that if Kyle ever finds out the truth about her feelings, he'll simply reject her...\" Pranita quipped that Jade is too proud to admit she has fallen for someone, but Rhys becomes determined to make Jade face up to reality. Pranita explained \"It's really challenging having that dynamic in the house, with another person knowing her secret. She knows he'll use it to blackmail her eventually.\" Kyle leaves Erinsborough for a few weeks to care for his sick mother. He returns in time for Christmas, where he gives Jade a handmade photo frame at a housemates lunch. Pranita told Lucy Walker of \"TV Week\" that Jade is touched by the gift as Kyle used his money to make her \"something meaningful.\" She is also surprised that he went to that much effort for her and the gesture makes Jade fall for Kyle even more. The couple share a passionate kiss under some mistletoe and Jade takes the opportunity to open up to Kyle about her commitment issues. She reveals that she was physically abused by her ex-boyfriend. Pranita explained \"She's never told anyone, not even her sister, Sonya. But Jade's a vault like that and, as hard as it is for her to talk about it, deep down there's an element of relief to share a part of her life with him. It is so difficult for her to talk about her personal life to anyone. So that's a really big deal.\"\n\nThe moment between Jade and Kyle is ruined when Kyle learns of her relationship with Malcolm Kennedy (Benjamin McNair). Jade tells Kyle that she only went with Malcolm to get over him, but it was unsuccessful. Jade then declares her love for Kyle, but he turns his back on her and Jade decides to leave Erinsborough and go to Sydney. However, she changes her mind at the last minute and decides not to get on the coach because she cannot leave Kyle. Jade then finds Kyle has come to stop her and they kiss. The conclusion to Jade and Kyle's \"will they, won't they?\" storyline aired during \"Neighbours\"' 2011 season finale week. When asked about Jade and Kyle finally becoming a couple, Pranita told \"Inside Soap's\" Jason Herbison \"Kyle is definitely thinking, 'Thank God she's finally come round!'. But I'm sure he's walking on eggshells because Jade is still so guarded.\" Pranita explained that Jade has a lot of rules when it comes to relationships and she is on a huge emotional journey. The actress said that Jade wants to enjoy it, but cannot help worrying about when it will all stop.\n\nJade's relationship with Kyle ends in July 2012, after Kate confesses that they kissed. Kate is feeling guilty about her kiss with Kyle and she tells Jade in the middle of the street. Jade then makes it clear that she want nothing more to do with Kate. Pranita told \"TV Week's\" Jackie Brygel and Erin Miller that the news comes a complete shock to Jade and she is not sure how to process it in the moment. Pranita revealed \"She had no clue, not a hint, that something was happening between them. Jade allowed herself to fall completely for Kyle. She felt as though she was in this amazing place and now Kate bursts that bubble in the most shocking of ways.\" The actress explained that Jade feels it is the worst sort of betrayal and after she confronts Kyle, she \"goes into self-defence protection mode\" and decides to eliminate him from her life. Pranita stated that she understands her character's reaction as she needs time to process and reflect. However, it is hard for her to punish Kyle as she really loved him.\n\nShortly after her arrival, Jade sets her sights on Lucas Fitzgerald (Scott Major). After spending the evening flirting with him, she kisses him. Pranita said Jade thinks Lucas is cute and there is an attraction between them. Of the kiss, Pranita said \"Jade and Lucas have only just met, but Jade is very free-spirited and does things on impulse.\" Lucas pulls away from the kiss as he has feelings for someone else, but Sonya witnesses it and is angry with her sister. Pranita admitted that she was nervous about filming the scene as it was her first screen kiss and it occurred during her first week on the show. When asked if the kiss is the start of a romance for Jade and Lucas, Pranita said that Jade is caught up with a lot of family issues for the moment, but anything could happen in the future. In February 2011, Pranita commented on Jade and Lucas, saying they are both strong characters, who are quite similar as they are \"loners who dance to their own beat.\" Major also said that he would like his character to have a romance with Jade. Lucas and Jade become friends after the kiss and they often argue, which led to Major calling their relationship a \"love/hate stand-off.\" Major revealed that he had asked the writers to put Lucas and Jade together, but they did not seem keen.\nIn April 2011, a reporter for \"TV Week\" stated that Jade would have a one-night stand with Mark Brennan (Scott McGregor). Jade and Mark grow closer after he goes for a drink at Charlie's, they play pool together and then \"find themselves kissing.\" Pranita told the reporter that Jade is \"risking the wrath\" of her close friend Kate Ramsay (Ashleigh Brewer), who recently broke up with Mark. She said \"Jade doesn't consider Kate in that moment, as she knows she's broken up with Brennan and doesn't appreciate that it's just not cool to hook up with other people's exes. But I think Kate will be horrified and shocked and angry.\" McGregor told Digital Spy's Daniel Kilkelly that he did not think Jade and Mark would have made a good match, and that it was a one off thing. He added that in some ways they regret it, but in others they do not. Pranita later revealed that what Jade had learnt from the one-night stand with Mark was not to risk a friendship for a man again.\n\nJade befriends Malcolm Kennedy in October 2011, and they begin flirting with each other. Susan Hill from the \"Daily Star\" said Jade uses Malcolm to distract her from her feelings for Kyle. The fact Malcolm is married appeals to her because she knows there is no chance of a relationship there. Jade tells her sister that she is no longer thinking about Kyle and a concerned Sonya tries to warn her off Malcolm. However, Jade decides she needs some fun and reckons he is the person to help her. Jade and Malcolm's innocent flirting turns into something more serious when they arrange a \"late-night rendezvous.\" Malcolm reminds Jade he is married, but that does not stop them from kissing. Pranita said her character is a commitment-phobe and she told a \"TV Week\" writer \"The reason she goes to Malcolm is purely to gain some sort of control back in her life because everything's spiralling out of control due to these feelings she has for Kyle. Her default position is to go back to what she knows - which is to hook up with men who won't want anything serious, like taken men or people who are up for a one-night stand. He's like a safety harness really.\" Malcolm and Jade's affair comes to an end when Karl Kennedy (Alan Fletcher) finds out about it. Jade does not appear to be fussed about the end of the affair and Malcolm is left \"a little rattled\" by her reaction.\n\nIn late 2011, Jade opened up to Kyle about her past and revealed that she had been in a relationship with an abusive man. Pranita revealed to Geoff Shearer of \"The Courier-Mail\" that Jade's ex would be introduced to the show in the new year. When Troy Miller (Dieter Brummer) returned to Ramsay Street in May 2012, Jade appeared \"horrified\" at his reappearance and in \"an explosive development\" it was revealed that he was her abusive ex-boyfriend. Claire Crick from \"All About Soap\" commented that Troy \"stooped to a new low\" when he seemed almost proud of the fact that he was once \"heavy-handed\" with Jade. Crick went on to say \"We're so used to seeing Jade as the feisty fitness freak who's always in control, but Troy clearly has a hold over her that no one else has. She's still terrified of her ex, and it seems she's got good reason to be. We always knew he was a bad egg, but who'd have thought he was nasty enough to hurt his girlfriend?\" Pranita explained that she had to some research into domestic, physical and emotional violence for the storyline, as she had never been in an abusive relationship.\n\nTroy was Sonya's ex-boyfriend and the biological father of Callum. He returned to try and win custody of his son. After Callum confronts his father about reneging on a deal they had, Troy snaps and refuses to let him leave his house. Both Sonya and Jade become anxious at the development and eventually burst through the door and get Callum out, but Troy then locks them inside. Pranita revealed \"Jade is taking on the very protective auntie role of looking after Callum. But she also knows Callum has no idea about how much of an untamed wild animal Troy is. Now, locked in the house with, she feels this is history repeating itself. Jade loathes Troy more now than she ever has.\" The actress found the scenes were some of the toughest she has ever shot, as they were unlike the normal drama they usually filmed. She called the storyline \"intense\" and found it harder than normal to let go of it when she went home. Pranita later stated that the Troy storyline had been her most difficult storyline to film during her time on \"Neighbours\".\n\nOn 8 June 2012, Fiona Byrne of the \"Herald Sun\" reported Pranita would be departing \"Neighbours\". Byrne revealed that the actress had been offered a contract extension, but she had decided to leave. Pranita stated \"The decision was made with a heavy heart as I love this job, but I just felt that two years was long enough to play one character. I became an actor to play lots of different characters and, while Jade has been an amazing role, I feel I want to challenge myself to do other things.\" She explained that she had enjoyed working on \"Neighbours\" that she would miss her co-stars, in particular Milligan and Morey. The actress took a break at the end of June to spend time with her boyfriend, before filming Jade's departure storyline. Pranita filmed her final scenes on 9 August. Pranita teased that \"hearts will be broken and lots tears will be shed\" when Jade leaves, while executive producer Richard Jasek revealed Jade would be presented with an amazing opportunity.\n\nJade is given the chance to work in the United States and she and Kyle begin a long-distance relationship. On her return, Jade asks Kyle to accompany her. However, after Kyle learns that she is going back to the US for a year, he states that his life is in Erinsborough. He then breaks up with Jade. When asked if her heart went out to Kyle, Pranita said \"Of course. I'm someone who has been in a long-distance relationship myself. I think it's always harder being the person who's left behind, since the other person is on a new crusade and adventure. Kyle and Jade have this awful, mutual break-up where they're both crying.\" Jade departed on 29 October 2012.\n\nJade comes to Erinsborough to visit her estranged sister Sonya and mend their relationship. Jade drags Sonya out for a drink and ends up kissing Sonya's friend Lucas Fitzgerald. When Jade tells Sonya she has no where else to go, Sonya allows her to stay with her. Jade starts teaching yoga at the local gym, and befriends Kate Ramsay. When she gets in trouble for flashing at Charlie's bar, Sonya tells her to leave. Zeke Kinski (Matthew Werkmeister) invites Jade to stay next door at the Kennedy house. When Sonya partner, Toadfish Rebecchi, returns home, Sonya is forced to introduce Jade to him and his son, Callum. Jade then realises that Callum is Sonya's son and threatens to tell him the truth. But once she sees how happy Callum is, she decides to keep Sonya's secret and moves in with her sister. Jade clashes with Toadie clash several times, but their relationship improves when they discover they have a mutual love of board games. When Callum's great-grandmother dies, it prompts him to try to find his mother. Callum eventually learns Sonya is his mother, and Jade comforts her sister when Toadie throws them out.\n\nJade asks Kyle Canning to help her attract female gym clients, but has to fire him when he is late for a meeting with a client. Jade has a one-night stand with Kate's ex-boyfriend, Mark Brennan, and Kate ends their friendship. They later make up when Jade apologises. Jade agrees to move in with Kyle at Number 26. During their housewarming party, Kyle and Jade kiss, but Jade is disappointed when Kyle says it did not mean anything. Michelle Tran (HaiHa Le) moves in to the spare room, but she soon annoys Jade and Kyle. Jade and Kyle have sex and enter into a friends with benefits arrangement. Michelle later exposes Jade and Kyle's arrangement to Sonya and Lucas. Kyle then invites Rhys Lawson (Ben Barber) to move in. Kyle admits that he has feelings for Jade, but she rejects him. She later has an affair with Malcolm Kennedy, despite knowing he is married.\n\nJade is touched when Kyle gives her a handmade photo frame for Christmas and she opens up to him about her abusive ex-boyfriend and her commitment issues. The moment is ruined when Kyle learns of her affair with Malcolm. When Jade tells Kyle that she loves him, he walks away and she decides to leave. Just before she boards a coach to Sydney, Kyle finds her and tells her he loves her too. When Jade needs to boost her business, she comes up with the idea for a singles boot camp. Kyle asks Jade to move into his room, but she states that she is not ready although she does love him. Kyle's grandmother, Sheila (Colette Mann), arrives and make it clear that she does not think Jade is the right girl for Kyle.\n\nLawyer Charlotte McKemmie (Meredith Penman) tells Jade that she has some clients who are looking to franchise her singles boot camp idea. Sonya's ex-partner, Troy Miller, moves onto Ramsay Street and when Jade confronts him, it emerges that Troy was her abusive ex-boyfriend. Jade explains that she has medical records proving that he hit her and she gives them to Toadie to help his custody case. Jade explains to Sonya and Kyle that she was young and lonely when she fell for Troy. Jade later gives evidence at a mediation meeting. Troy locks Callum in his house and Jade and Sonya manage to get him out, before being locked in themselves. As Troy explains that he just wants to spend time with his son, Jade punches him in the stomach and she and Sonya escape. Troy ends up in hospital with a head injury and he claims that Jade attacked him. The police come to question Jade and she realises that she could face manslaughter charges if Troy dies. Troy regains consciousness and tells the police that Jade was not responsible for his injuries. Troy later dies and Jade admits that she is relieved.\n\nKate tells Jade that she and Kyle kissed, and a devastated Jade orders Kyle to leave the house. Sheila later apologises to Jade for encouraging Kate to go after Kyle. Jade is touched when Kyle organises a party for her and when one of her clients asks her out, she turns him down as she is not over Kyle. She then admits to Kyle that she still loves him and they get back together. Jade purchases Lou Carpenter's (Tom Oliver) share of Kyle's business and demonstrates her skill in negotiating a lower price from hardware suppliers. Jade learns that some potential investors from the United States want to buy the rights to her singles boot camp franchise, and she decides to go to Los Angeles for six months to sort out the deal. Jade returns home a couple of times to see Kyle and Sonya. She later tells Kyle that she has been offered the chance to stay in Los Angeles for a year and he decides to break up with her, as he cannot leave Erinsborough. Jade thinks about staying, but Kyle tells her that she has to go and Jade leaves for Los Angeles.\n\nUpon Jade's introduction, a reporter from the \"Daily Record\" said she \"looks like she's set to cause some trouble.\" Alan Fletcher (who plays Karl Kennedy) praised Pranita's addition to the cast. David Barnsby, writing for television magazine \"TV Buzz\", commented that anything is possible with Jade because she is such a \"live wire.\" Jaci Stephen of the \"Daily Mail\" called Jade a \"busybody.\" A writer for Holy Soap said Jade's most memorable moment was \"When she found out Callum's name and realised he was Sonya's son.\" Another writer for the website branded her a \"serial flirt.\" Following her one-night stand with Mark, Sarah Ellis of \"Inside Soap\" said that Jade would be better off if she \"set her sights on kind-hearted Kyle.\" Ellis later wondered how long Kyle and Jade's friends with benefits deal would last until they saw what the rest of the world could. \"Inside Soap\" ran a poll asking viewers to vote for their favourite soap personal trainer and Jade come second, earning 10% of the vote.\n\nTess Larnacraft from \"TV Buzz\" questioned whether Jade and Kyle would ever get together and said she could not \"keep watching them skirt around each other for much longer.\" During a feature on soap couples that should be together, another \"Inside Soap\" columnist said Kyle should give up lusting after Kate and realise Jade is \"The One.\" They opined that while neither of them have had a relationship for more than twenty four hours, it does put them on an even playing field. Cameron Adams of the \"Herald Sun\" later called Jade and Kyle's relationship \"bumby\" and he said Jade is an \"Alpha female\" whose kryptonite is Valentine's Day. During Troy's return storyline, the \"Daily Record's\" Sarah Morgan commented \"Jade is a woman on a mission - to get Troy out of her family's life once and for all. Although we can understand why she's driven to punch him in the face, we hadn't realised how tough she is as, with one swipe of her fist, he ends up in a coma.\" Dianne Butler, writing for the \"Herald Sun\", branded the character \"Alpha Jade\".\n\n"}
{"id": "9520532", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9520532", "title": "John C. Green", "text": "John C. Green\n\nJohn C. Green is an American academic who has written numerous books on the relationship between religion and politics.\n\nJohn Clifford Green received his B.A. degree from the University of Colorado and his Ph.D. degree from Cornell University.\n\nGreen is a scholar, researcher, and director of the Ray C. Bliss Institute of Applied Politics at the University of Akron in Ohio. He is also a Distinguished Professor of Political Science at the University of Akron. His area of research is religion and politics in the U.S. He co-authored the book \"Mormons and American Politics\" with Quin Monson and David E. Campbell. He was appointed dean of the Buchtel College of Arts and Sciences by the Board of Trustees on April 19, 2017, after serving as interim dean since October 2015.. Following the resignation of The University of Akron's 17th President, Matthew Wilson, Green was named interim president of the university by the Board of Trustees on April 18th 2018. Green's term as interim president will begin on May 1 2018. \nGreen is a Senior Fellow at the Pew Forum on Religion & Public Life.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39401859", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39401859", "title": "Kenya Muslim Academy", "text": "Kenya Muslim Academy\n\nKenya Muslim Academy is a secondary level school based in Nairobi, Kenya.\n"}
{"id": "47010140", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47010140", "title": "Kids Can Say No!", "text": "Kids Can Say No!\n\nKids Can Say No!, stylized as \"Kids Can Say No,\" is a 1985 British short educational film produced and directed by Jessica Skippon and written by Anita Bennett. It is intended to teach children between ages five and eight how to avoid situations where they might be sexually abused, how to escape such situations, and how to get help if they are abused. In the film, Australian celebrity Rolf Harris is in a park with a group of four children and tells them about proper and improper physical intimacy, which he calls \"yes\" and \"no\" feelings. The film has four role-playing scenes in which children encounter paedophiles, with Harris and the children discussing each scene.\n\nHarris said that he came up with the idea for the film on a 1982 Canadian tour when he saw Vancouver's Green Thumb Theatre production of \"Feeling Yes, Feeling No\", a play about child sexual abuse. \"Kids Can Say No!\", released in October 1985 on VHS in the United Kingdom, was the first British children's film about sexual abuse and was purchased by police forces, educational institutions, and libraries across Europe. Upon the film's release, \"The Times\" obtained opinions from four sexual-abuse experts, who unanimously opposed using \"Kids Can Say No!\" or any other film to teach children about the subject. The Australian Broadcasting Corporation received a positive response to its 1988 broadcast of \"Kids Can Say No!\" and therefore broadcast it a second time that year. Harris and Skippon collaborated on the 1986 sequel \"Beyond the Scare\", which advises teachers about what to do if a child discloses abuse. Showings of \"Kids Can Say No!\" eventually decreased as VHS became less popular.\n\n\"Kids Can Say No!\" resurfaced in 2014, when Harris was prosecuted for twelve counts of indecently assaulting young girls. The prosecutors found \"Kids Can Say No!\" on YouTube and wanted to show it at trial to illustrate its unintentional irony, but the film was not admitted as evidence. Harris was found guilty of all counts. During the trial, it was learned that, while Harris was filming \"Kids Can Say No!\", he was in the midst of a casual sexual relationship with his daughter Bindi's best friend and, by its release, he had committed nine of the twelve assaults. According to Richard Guilliatt and Jacquelin Magnay in an article in \"The Australian\", Harris' campaign against paedophilia in \"Kids Can Say No!\" can \"be seen in retrospect as either monumental self-delusion or a sign of deep, self-lacerating guilt\".\n\nIn \"Kids Can Say No!\", Australian celebrity Rolf Harris appears with four children between the ages of seven and eight and warns them about paedophiles. The film begins with its theme song, \"My Body\", which has the chorus \"My body's nobody's body but mine. You run your own body. Let me run mine.\" During the song, children ride a seesaw, skip rope and cycle. Harris sits under a tree in a park with the children—two girls and two boys—and tells them about proper and improper physical intimacy, which he calls \"yes\" and \"no\" feelings; a parent's hug is given as an example of a \"yes\" feeling. In vox populi segments, children give other examples of \"yes\" and \"no\" feelings; one child says that being tickled by his father is a \"yes\" feeling, and another says that being squeezed hard is a \"no\" feeling. Harris leads the children in a chant of \"Go away!\" as an exercise in how to respond to \"no\" feelings. He teaches the children about stranger danger, and that adults they know can also be a threat.\n\nThe film includes four role-playing scenes. In the first, a man tells a girl that he will buy her a toy if she goes home with him. In the second, eight-year-old Natasha goes to her friend's house and finds that only her friend's father is home; after he intentionally spills water on her clothes, he tells her to take them off. The film cuts to Harris, who says, \"She should look him straight in the eye and tell him to stop, go away\". In the third scene, a group of older boys try to lure young children into their \"special club\"; they lead one young boy to a secluded, wooded area and try to convince him to remove his clothes. In the last role-playing scene, Sophie's father offers her a secret bubble bath; afterwards, he tells her not to tell anyone because he would go to jail and it would be her fault.\nDuring and after each of the role-playing scenes, Harris and the children discuss the situation and what the child should do. Harris tells the children not to be afraid to tell someone if they have been improperly touched, saying, \"Some people don't act right with kids, and they need help. You can't protect them from trouble that they themselves have caused, and it's better to say something so that you and the family can get the help you need. You know nothing gets better by keeping quiet about it.\" Harris says that, if it is difficult to explain where they have been touched, they can draw a picture or point to the place on a doll. The film ends with \"My Body\" sung by a group of people including Harris, two police officers, and some children.\n\n\"Kids Can Say No!\" is a twenty-minute British short educational film intended to teach children about sexual abuse. Harris said he was naive about the subject and was motivated to make the film by a female teacher who told him that, when she spoke to her students about abuse, a traumatised girl ran out of the room; the girl later disclosed that she was being abused by a family member. According to Harris, he came up with the idea for the film on a 1982 Canadian tour when he saw Vancouver's Green Thumb Theatre production of \"Feeling Yes, Feeling No\", a play about child sexual abuse. He was also inspired by a similar Australian production and a Swedish film about two children befriended by a large man on a farm. In an interview, Harris said that, when he saw the Swedish film, he thought the man was going to abuse the children, but that his expectations were incorrect and that \"the film was completely innocent; I was not\".\n\nHarris, then host of \"Rolf's Cartoon Time\", approached the National Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children (NSPCC) and the Tavistock Clinic with his idea about making a film on child sexual abuse. Both organisations were receptive. Harris had previous connections with the NSPCC, having appeared in films in 1963 and 1973 promoting the NSPCC League of Pity, and a NSPCC official suggested that he use child actors in \"Kids Can Say No!\" Harris approached director Jessica Skippon, with whom he had made a film about water safety, and said that he wanted to make \"Kids Can Say No!\" to protect children. Harris later said that production was hampered by colleagues opposing the idea that children should be told about sexual abuse.\n\n\"Kids Can Say No!\" was made in London with input from Carolyn Okell Jones, an expert on child abuse, and was filmed on Hampstead Heath in 1985. The child actors were students at the Barbara Speake Stage School. Skippon directed and produced the film. Funding was difficult because neither the Department of Health and Social Security nor the Home Office considered the film under their jurisdiction, and each office referred Skippon to the other. Childwatch, a charitable organisation, donated £15,000 and technical facilities were provided by Barclays Bank Video. Harris covered the rest of the film's production costs and American children's songwriter Peter Alsop wrote the theme song. American Anita Bennett wrote the script, which was reviewed and approved by a NSPCC committee. \"Kids Can Say No!\" was the second film from Rolf Harris Video, an educational video production company Harris founded in 1980. In an interview, he said that his role of talking with children about sexual abuse in the film was a natural one because \"my track record has made me a believable person. I have never betrayed the kids' trust\".\n\n\"Kids Can Say No!\" was the first British children's film about sexual abuse. The film is intended to teach children between ages five and eight how to avoid situations where they might be abused, how to get out of such situations, and how to get help if they are abused. Skippon later said that, although the people working on the film tried to keep it from being frightening to children, the task was difficult. She said that the film was not intended for home viewing and that only well-informed adults trained in the subject should present it to children.\n\nIn April 1986, Harris met with Western Australia Police officials and members of several state-government departments in Mount Hawthorn to propose another film for children about how to handle sexual predators. Despite Harris' offer to work for free, the officials declined and instead developed a broader campaign on the subject without Harris.\n\n\"Kids Can Say No!\" was released in the United Kingdom in October 1985 on VHS with notes for teachers and two relevant books, and was distributed by Skippon Video, Skippon's UK-based company. Although several other short children's educational films about sexual abuse were on the market in the UK including several also released that year, \"Kids Can Say No!\" was the only British film; the others were made in Australia, Canada and the United States.\n\nIn August 1986, Jones presented the film at the Sydney Opera House in Australia as part of the sixth International Congress on Child Abuse and Neglect, the largest conference in the world on child abuse. The 56-year-old Harris, who was chosen to be master of ceremonies for the three-day conference's opening event because of his celebrity and involvement with the film, told the audience that paedophilia was finally \"coming out from under its veil of secrecy\".\n\nCopies of \"Kids Can Say No!\" were purchased by police forces, educational institutions, and libraries across Europe. The VHS tapes circulated widely in schools and rape crisis centers in Australia; although showings began to decrease as VHS became less popular, the film was a significant teaching tool. The Australian Broadcasting Corporation received a positive response to its 1988 broadcast of \"Kids Can Say No!\" and therefore broadcast it a second time that year.\n\nAfter the release of \"Kids Can Say No!\", many teachers who showed the film to their students reported receiving disclosures of abuse. Because many of the teachers said they were unsure of how to deal with the disclosures, Harris and Skippon collaborated on the 1986 sequel \"Beyond the Scare\". \"Kids Can Say No!\" encourages children to report abuse they experience and \"Beyond the Scare\" advises teachers about what to do if a child makes such a disclosure.\n\n\"Beyond the Scare\", filmed in a North London school, consists of role-playing scenes with actual teachers. The film instructs teachers to listen to the child, to discuss the incident with the child's parents and to contact the appropriate authorities. The Tavistock Clinic helped with the film's production, and an expert from the organisation appears on-camera to promote child protection projects in schools. Although Harris appears in \"Beyond the Scare\", his role is less prominent than in \"Kids Can Say No!\" and his activism against child abuse ended soon afterwards.\n\n\"Kids Can Say No!\" resurfaced in 2014 when Harris, then 83 years old, was prosecuted for twelve counts of indecent assault between 1968 and 1986 against four young girls; the youngest was seven years old. The prosecutors found \"Kids Can Say No!\" on YouTube and wanted to show it at trial for its unintentional irony, but the film was ruled irrelevant to the case and not admitted as evidence.\n\nAfter the trial began, Skippon warned media outlets that it was illegal to use the film without written permission. The director wrote to \"The Independent\" that no complaints were made against Harris during the making of the film. In an article about the allegations against Harris, \"The Sunday Telegraph\" noted that \"Kids Can Say No!\" was commissioned by the NSPCC; a NSPCC spokesperson responded, \"The film was made independently by Rolf Harris and a film company nearly 30 years ago ... We did not commission it, fund it, make it or distribute it\".\n\nSouthwark Crown Court found Harris guilty of all twelve counts of indecent assault. During the trial, it was learned that, while making \"Kids Can Say No!\", Harris was involved in a casual sexual relationship with his daughter Bindi's best friend; the relationship began when the victim was 13 years old and lasted for 15 years. Harris had committed nine of the twelve counts by the film's release, including the assault of fifteen-year-old Tonya Lee in London three months before the release. The first complainant was about the age of the children in \"Kids Can Say No!,\" although the conviction related to this count was quashed in 2017. The last assault of which Harris was convicted occurred several weeks after his meeting with officials in Western Australia to propose another film about child sexual abuse. A former child actor from the Barbara Speake Stage School who appeared in \"Kids Can Say No!\" said that Harris' behavior with older girls at the school made Harris' eventual arrest unsurprising.\n\nReviews of \"Kids Can Say No!\" have generally been negative, with initial reviews doubting the benefit of showing the film to children and later reviews focusing on Harris' hypocrisy. In a 1985 \"Times\" review, Caroline Moorehead writes that the film's avoidance of an explicit discussion of sexual abuse was both a requirement and the film's greatest weakness. According to Moorehead, an explicit discussion might have terrified children and prevented parents from consenting to their children's viewing of the film; however, its oblique approach prevents children from understanding the issue. She calls the film's theme song \"catchy, one of those irritating snatches of music that is hard to forget\".\n\n\"The Times\" obtained opinions from four sexual-abuse experts, who unanimously opposed using \"Kids Can Say No!\" or any other film to teach children about the subject. Northampton social worker Helen Kenward said that she would not show the film to children. Psychiatrist Brendan McCarthy called it simplistic. According to teacher Clare Rankin, children under five would not understand the film. Physician Paula Drummond was concerned that it might inspire children to falsely accuse adults they disliked, although McCarthy said that children were unlikely to make false abuse accusations. McCarthy was especially critical of the film, calling it \"no clearer to a child than the Gorbachev-Reagan talks\". Moorehead summarised the experts' comments as suggesting that \"Kids Can Say No!\" is \"muddling, evasive and pussy-footed, best not for children at all, but as ... aids for parents and professional workers to alert them to paedophilia and incest\".\n\nIn a 1988 \"Sydney Morning Herald\" review, Judith Whelan writes that Harris is more serious in the film than he was when performing \"Jake the Peg\". According to Whelan, the film \"would best be seen by children in a group, with an adult (teacher or parent) nearby who could encourage discussion after the show or answer children's questions during it\".\n\nWhen \"Kids Can Say No!\" resurfaced in 2014, Peter Walker wrote in \"The Guardian\" that the film \"illustrates with grim eloquence, in retrospect, the prosecution notion that [Harris] was a man of two distinct sides: the avuncular and trustworthy public figure, and lurking behind, the groper and abuser\". Walker notes that the scene in which a man assaults his child's friend mirrors what Harris did to his daughter's best friend, and that the closing sequence has \"an accidental resonance that would only emerge more than 25 years later\" because of the two police officers behind Harris.\n\nAccording to Richard Guilliatt and Jacquelin Magnay in an article in \"The Australian\", Harris' campaign against paedophilia in \"Kids Can Say No!\" can \"be seen in retrospect as either monumental self-delusion or a sign of deep, self-lacerating guilt\". NSPCC chief executive officer Peter Wanless appeared on \"Good Morning Britain\" saying that Harris' appearance in the film was hypocritical. In an \"Irish Daily Mail\" article, Paul Bracchi writes that Harris' work on \"Kids Can Say No!\" at the same time that he was abusing girls was \"one of the most sickening examples [of] hiding in plain sight\". In 2014, theme composer Peter Alsop said that Harris may have used the film to groom children because it encouraged trust by parents.\n"}
{"id": "4907132", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4907132", "title": "Kutumb Foundation", "text": "Kutumb Foundation\n\nThe Kutumb Foundation is a New Delhi based NGO. It was founded in 2002. The NGO works in Khan Market, Ali Vihar, Nizamuddin Sunder Nursery Slum and Savda-Ghevra Jhuggi Jhopri Resettlement Colony. Kutumb works in the field of education through its Indradhanush programme, an initiative to use peer teachers and in-house curriculum to teach English, Hindi and Maths. They also have two Qissagadh Active Libraries and run a Library Outreach programme. Another initiative of the organisation is their Dhamaa Chaukdi workshop series; these workshops use drama in education strategies to share Kutumb’s best practices with teachers from government schools and other non-profits. The organisation also runs a football and life skills programme called Goal of Life. Overall Kutumb works with over 350 disadvantaged youth per year. Since 2006, Kutumb has also held an annual theatre event, Hilley-ley. \n\n\nFacebook: https://www.facebook.com/kutumbfoundation\n"}
{"id": "233885", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=233885", "title": "List of academic ranks", "text": "List of academic ranks\n\nThis list of academic ranks identifies the hierarchical ranking structure found amongst scholars in academia. The lists below refer specifically to colleges and universities throughout the world, although other institutions of higher learning may follow a similar schema.\n\nAccording to Article 34 of Afghanistan's Civil Higher Education Law, academic ranks for the lecturers of higher learning institutions are as follows:\n\nA: Assistants\n\n1. Junior teaching Assistant پوهيالی\n\n2. Teaching Assistant - پوهنیار\n\n3. Senior Teaching Assistant - پوهنمل\n\nB: Lecturers\n\n1. Assistant Professor - پوهندوی\n\n2. Associate Professor - پوهنوال\n\n3. Professor - پوهاند\n\nIn Algeria, university teachers are initially recruited – on the basis of a competition – at the rank of \"Maître Assistant\" (Assistant Professor), only if they are holding a Doctoral degree from either local public universities or UNESCO officially accredited and internationally recognized foreign institutions of higher education. Not all foreign PhD's or academic titles are accepted or automatically given local equivalencies. Degree granting Universities and their doctoral programs (i.e.;courses & dissertation) are first evaluated by the National Ministry of higher education equivalency committee before an official equivalency decision to the Algerian Doctorate is granted. After a minimum of three years and – on the basis of a competition based on teaching and scholarly work – assistant professors are allowed to apply to compete for promotion to the rank of \"Maître de Conférences\" (Associate Professor). After a minimum of five years, they can similarly – on the basis of a competition based on teaching and scholarly work – apply for promotion to the rank of \"Professeur de l'Enseignement Superieur\" (Full Professor). All applications for the competition to promotion competitions are first evaluated and ranked by the university scientific committees at faculty and university levels, then by the Ministry of higher education promotion committee before an official promotion decision is to be granted. The whole process (French system legacy) is quite long and extremely competitive, and does not allow for automatic rank equivalency for professors transferring from overseas universities, the lengthy process repeat from assistant professor upwards to professor is inevitable, exceptions made to officially invited visiting professors who are well-known experts in their fields of expertise.\n\nSource: Ministry of Higher Education & Scientific Research – Algiers\n\n\n\n\nTeachers are categorized in four main classes in Bangladesh at University level. The ascending rank of teacher is Lecturer, Assistant Professor, Associate Professor and Professor. The initial position Lecturer is generally enrolled as the top student of the class. Master's degree is required for normal university level Lecturer. After PhD, the appointment starts with Assistant Professor, then gradually Associate Professor and Professor depending on research/teaching experience. Beside these, professor of Emeritus is given to extraordinary professor after their retirement.\n\nAcademic ranks\n\nAdministrative ranks\n\n\nAdministrative ranks:\n\n\nAdministrative ranks:\n\n\nAdministrative ranks\n\nHonorary ranks\n\nThere is no official academic ranking in Brazilian private universities. However, most of the public Federal Universities apply the following (from the highest position to the lowest one):\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nFaculty (teaching staff)\n\nAssistant professor is the entry-level rank for non-tenured members of faculty.\n\nNon-faculty teaching and research personnel\n\nAdministrative ranks\n\n\n\n\nHonorary academic rank\n\nAdministrative ranks\n\nTenured:\n\n\nTenure-track faculty positions\n\n\nNon-tenure track positions\n\nTeachers are categorized in five main classes in Egypt at University level. The ascending rank of teacher is Demonstrator, Assistant Lecturer, Lecturer, Associate Professor and Professor. The initial position Demonstrator is generally enrolled as the top student of the class. Master's degree is required for university level Assistant Lecturer. After PhD, the appointment starts with Lecturer, then gradually Associate Professor and Professor depending on research/teaching experience. Beside these, professor of Emeritus is given to extraordinary professor after their retirement.\n\n\n\nIn Finland, there's no \"graduate\" or \"undergraduate\" system; university students may be employed as a research assistant (\"tutkimusapulainen\") before they graduate with a master's degree. A doctoral student must already hold a master's degree, and are typically employed by the university, or enjoy a similar grant, and will be called \"tohtorikoulutettava\" (doctoral candidate), \"tutkija\" (researcher) or \"assistentti\" (teaching assistant). Besides post-doctoral researchers (\"tutkijatohtori\") and senior teaching assistants (\"yliassistentti\"), there are several mid-level non-professorial positions such as teaching researcher (\"opettava tutkija\"). Senior teachers and researchers may be employed as e.g. \"erikoistutkija\" (\"special researcher\") or \"yliopistotutkija\" (university researcher). Docent (\"dosentti\") is a non-professiorial rank and title (for life) awarded to academics qualified as a principal investigator and for supervision of doctoral students; however, they do not belong to the professor corps and may be employed elsewhere. Professors (\"professori\") are understood as research group leaders and managers, and traditionally there's no direct equivalent of an assistant / associate / full professor career path, although Aalto University is introducing these. Qualifications for a professor's position are earned as a docent or in other mid-career positions. In management, professors serve as department heads (\"laitosjohtaja\" or \"osastonjohtaja\") and deans (head of faculty, \"dekaani\"). The leader of a university is called a rector (\"rehtori\"), assisted by multiple vice-rectors (\"vararehtori\"). Vice-rectors may retain their professor's positions or work full-time as a vice-rector. Some universities have an even more senior officer called Chancellor (\"kansleri\"), which works more with outreach and public relations than daily management.\n\nIn French business schools, ranks are the same than in the United States: Assistant Professor, Associate Professor, and finally (Full) Professor.\n\n\nAdministrative ranks (Universities and Technical Universities)\n\nThe holders of administrative ranks must be Professors or Associate Professors. The only exception is Secretary General, who is not a faculty member.\n\nAdministrative ranks (Technological Educational Institutes)\n\nThe holders of administrative ranks must be Professors or Associate Professors.\n\nAcademic positions\n\nAdministrative positions\n\n\nAdministrative ranks\n\nIn the past, Hong Kong followed the British system (4 levels). In recent years it is moving towards the North American counterpart, with the titles renamed to their corresponding equivalence (professor, associate professor, and assistant professor). Institutions established in the 1980s and 1990s almost entirely follows the North American system, while older ones, notably the University of Hong Kong is in the process of transition. Depending on institutions, the title of \"professor\" is assumed by chair professors and professors, or assistant professors and above.\n\nAcademic ranks\n\nAdministrative ranks\n\nIn Icelandic universities, especially The University of Iceland, \"prófessor\" is the most senior ranking teaching position. Below \"prófessor\" is \"dósent\", then \"lektor\". This three step hierarchy is akin to the US-scale, of full-, associate- and assistant-professors. Until the early 1990s no upward mobility was available in the Icelandic system. Most university teachers were hired as \"prófessor.\" A \"dósent\" or a \"lektor\" wishing to ascend to a higher rank had to apply for a new position when it became available. Currently (since the 1990s) much more university teachers are hired as junior rank \"lektor\" and are promoted to \"dósent\" and \"prófessor\" if their work proves worthy of it.\n\n\nRegular Academic ranks (Hierarchy from top): Academic institutions in India have the mandate of teaching, training and research. This also includes research universities.\nResearch ranks (Hierarchy from top): Research institutions such as national labs have a different kind of hierarchy and are primarily concerned with basic and applied research. They guide Ph.D. students in their research thesis but do not grant degrees. In most cases the Ph.D. candidates are registered with another University which grants the degree. Awarding of degree is subjected to meeting the same criteria as Ph.D. guided by university professors.\nNon-faculty ranks\nAdministrative ranks in Universities\nAdministrative ranks in Research Institutions\n\nAcademic ranks\n\nScience and Technology Index of Indonesia (SINTA), developed by the Ministry of Research, Technology, and Higher Education (Kemristekdikti) has assigned academic rank (Jabatan Fungsional) for lecturer (university-based) and researcher (non-university).\nAcademic ranks for lecturers\nAcademic ranks for researchers\nAdministrative ranks (university)\n\nHolders of Bachelor's degree when granted to teach in a college:\n\nHolders of master's degrees when granted to teach in a college:\n\nHolders of Ph.D. degrees:\n\nTerms of address in general: \"ostād\"\n\nEmeritus ranks\n\nAdministrative ranks\n\nHolders of master's degrees can be (in ascending order):\nHolders of PhD degrees can be (in ascending order):\nNote: Holders of PhD degrees are automatically promoted to lecturer if they were assistant lecturers before they received their PhD.\n\n\nAcademic:\n\n\nAdministrative Ranks:\n\n\nTenured positions (\"confermato\"):\nNon-tenured positions (\"non confermato\"):\n\nA honorary title as \"Professore Emerito\" also exists and is typically appointed to illustrious academics after retirement.\n\nTenured or non-tenured faculty\n\nThe ranking is as follows:\n\nThe Japanese system includes non-tenure, term-limited, positions at all ranks, including professor. These are referred to as positions and officially include \"tokunin\" in the title. Limited tenure track positions (similar to the United States) have recently been introduced (). In this system corresponds to assistant professor. A major difference between the United States system and Japan is that granting of tenure and promotion to associate professor are not linked; one may be tenured yet remain an assistant professor. Advancing upward typically requires a higher-level post to be vacated, even in the new tenure-track system.\n\n\nAdministrative positions:\n\nAcademic positions:\n\nAcademic positions at the Lebanese American University:\n\n\nAt the University of Macau there are nine levels of faculty rank, namely\n\nAt the Macau Polytechnic Institute there are three levels\n\n\nAdministrative positions:\n\n\nThe ranking system in most Mexican public universities is as follows\nUsually Mexican academics are also fellows of the Sistema Nacional de Investigadores (SNI) that has four levels (candidate, I, II and III) that more or less correlate (but are not equivalent) to the Asociado and Titular A, B, and C professorships. The rank as professor is determined by the individual's institution while the SNI level is determined by an independent committee that evaluates the researchers nationwide.\n\nMany universities and research institutions make a distinction between \"Profesores\" -Professors- and \"Investigadores\" -Researchers- (Asociado A, B, C, Titular A, B, C), the main difference is that \"Profesores\" have a higher load of teaching, while \"Investigadores\" have a higher load of research, but normally all of them take part in both activities and are considered equivalent.\n\nResearch rankings are awarded by the Sistema Nacional de Investigadores which depends on the national research council (Conacyt):\n\nAll titles, both professors and researchers, can be given in a:\n\nAdministrative academic positions:\n\nAcademic Positions\n\n1. Professor Emeritus\n\n2. Professor\n\n3. Associate professor/Reader\n\n4. Assistant Professor\n\n5. Lecturer\n\n6. Teaching Assistant\n\n7. Instructor\n\n8. Technical support staff\n\nAdministrative Positions\n\nAcademic Positions\n\nAdministrative Positions\n\nThe hiring of academic positions in public universities throughout Pakistan is managed by the Higher Education Commission of Pakistan, the requirement for all positions vary with respect to the field of studies e.g. Engineering, IT, Medical, Law, and Arts and Design.\n\nThere are four faculty ranks lecturer, assistant professor, associate professor, and professor.\n\nIn engineering public universities, a lecturer requires a M.Sc. or B.Sc. degree and high academic standing in the field (e.g. gold medallist, among top 15 students of graduating class).\nAn assistant professor position requires a Ph.D. in relevant field and at least two years of teaching/research/professional experience.\nAn associate professorship can be conducted in the fourth year of employment, although, it is becoming more common for promotion and tenure to be awarded in the sixth year of employment. The review requires a certain number 5/8/10 research publications (with at least 1/2/4 publications in the last 5 years) by the calendar years 2007/2008/2012 respectively, in HEC/PEC recognized journals.\n\nA professor requires ten years post-PhD teaching/research experience in an HEC recognized university or a post-graduate institution or professional experience in the relevant field in a national or international organization. It requires a minimum of 8/12/15 research publications (with at least 2/3/5 publications in the last 5 years) by the calendar years 2007/2008/2012 respectively, in HEC/PEC recognized journals\n\n\nThe Peruvian public universities consider these ranks:\n\n\nAfter some recent reforms in the University Law , the following full time positions require the following degrees: \n\n\nFor these positions any other paid work is not allowed. However, due to the low income (which in 2014 was $400 per month for the initial position), some professors need to seek for part-time jobs at private universities. As a consequence, it is difficult for a professor to do research in a public university.\n\n\nAdministrative ranks (UP System;National)\n\nOther professors\n\nTenure\n\nDue to Philippine labor laws regarding permanency, a faculty member who has not received tenure within three years of initial hire cannot continue as a full-time hire at the same university.\n\nResearch-and-teaching staff (higher rank)\n\nand also for a special purpose:\n\nTeaching staff: (lower rank)\n\nElected or nominated posts\n\n\nExtinct ranks:\n\nAdministrative ranks\n\nResearch-and-teaching staff (higher rank)\n\nSpecial\n\nSingapore universities adopt a hybrid of US and British academic ranks. Faculty members on the tenure-track are appointed for sustained excellence in both teaching and research. Assistant Professors are appointed on term contracts, while Associate Professors and Professors may be appointed either with tenure or on term contract. Faculty members on the Educator Track engage in high quality educational activities. They are oriented towards teaching excellence, student learning, and pedagogical research and innovation. Appointments in this Track include Teaching Assistants, Instructors, Lecturers, Senior Lecturers and Associate Professors (Educator Track). They are on term contracts which are usually of 1 – 3 years in the first instance. Research track faculty members focus on conducting fundamental research of high international quality. Appointments on this Track include Research Assistants, Research Fellows, Senior Research Fellows, Associate Professor (Research) and Professor (Research). They are on term contracts of 1 – 3 years in the first instance. Practice Track faculty members are scholar-practitioners with professional skills and expertise in industry to complement the teaching and research enterprise of the University. They also contribute significantly to the outreach activities of the School. Appointments are to Associate Professor (Practice) and Professor (Practice). They are on term contracts of 1 – 3 years in the first instance.\n\n\n\nSpecial\n\nAdministrative\n\nHonorary ranks\n\n\nAdministrative ranks\n\nHonorary ranks\n\nProtected job titles (a.k.a. tenure positions):\n\nOther positions:\n\nThe appointment of professors follows the British system and is governed by the University Grants Commission regulations. A points-based system considers contributions to the research field, national development and institutional development. Several types of professorships exist:\n\n\nProfessor positions are clearly separated from other junior faculty positions such as, in seniority order: senior lecturer (grade I) (usually PhD and 6+ years service), senior lecturer (grade II) (usually a PhD and 2+ years service), lecturer (usually with PhD), lecturer (probationary), assistant lecturer.\n\n\nAdministrative ranks\n\n\nResearcher level\n\nHigher titles\n\nHonorary titles\n\n\n\n\nThe academic rankings in the Syrian Arab Republic are very similar to the Egyptian ones; see Academic ranks in Egypt for details.\n\n\nProfessor (ศาสตราจารย์) <br>\nAssociate professor (รองศาสตราจารย์)<br>\nAssistant professor (ผู้ช่วยศาสตราจารย์)<br>\nLecturer (อาจารย์)\n\n\n\nAdministrative ranks\n\nAcademic ranks\n\nAdministrative ranks\n\nAcademic ranks\n\nAdministrative ranks\n\nResearch and teaching career pathway\n\nResearch career pathway\n\nTeaching career pathway\n\nMost common hierarchy\n\n\nDedication rank\n\nAdministrative ranks (public national)\n\nOther professors\n\nAuxiliary and Lab assistants\n\nThe appointment and ranking of academics is governed by the Minister of Higher and Tertiary Education, Science and Technology Development. A points-based system considers an academic's contributions to research, teaching, and university and community service. The following structure of grades and notches for Academic Staff exist at universities in Zimbabwe:\n\nUniversity Administrative ranks\n\nDescription of each Academic Rank\n\nGrade 7 - Teaching Assistant/Assistant Lecturer/Assistant Research Fellow\nConditions: First Degree. Annual appointment for a maximum period of three years during which one must acquire a recognized Master’s Degree.\n\nGrade 6 - Lecturer/Research Fellow (Master’s Degree/PhD Degree)\nConditions: Lecturers may be tenured after three years subject to a minimum of 5 publications in refereed Journals (or assessed equivalent including patents, copyrights, trademarks). Research Fellows may be tenured after three years subject to a minimum of 7 publications in refereed Journals (or assessed equivalent including patents, copyrights, trademarks).\n\nGrade 5 - Senior Lecturer/Senior Research Fellow \nConditions: Senior Lecturer (may be equivalent to Assistant Professor rank in other countries - PhD/earned Doctorate with 6 - 10 publications in refereed journals (or assessed equivalent including patents, copyrights, trademarks). May be tenured on appointment. Senior Research Fellow - PhD/earned Doctorate with 8 - 12 publications in refereed journals (or assessed equivalent including patents, copyrights, trademarks). May be tenured on appointment. \n\nGrade 4 - Associate Professor/Associate Research Professor \nConditions: Associate Professor - PhD/earned Doctorate with 21 but less than 35 publications in refereed journals (or assessed equivalent including patents, copyrights, trademarks). Tenured on appointment. Associate Research Professor - PhD Degree/earned Doctorate with 24 or more publications in refereed journals (or assessed equivalent including patents, copyrights, trademarks) Associate Professor. Tenured on appointment. \n\nGrade 3b - Professor/Research Professor\nConditions: \nProfessor - PhD/earned Doctorate with 35 or more Publications in refereed journals (or assessed equivalent including patents, copyrights, trademarks). Research Professor - PhD/earned Doctorate with 40 or more Publications in refereed journals (or assessed equivalent including patents, copyrights, trademarks).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55955266", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55955266", "title": "List of libraries in Brunei", "text": "List of libraries in Brunei\n\nThis list of libraries in Brunei includes public, special and university libraries. All of the libraries are operated by departments and universities under the Government of Brunei.\n"}
{"id": "43488818", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43488818", "title": "Malcolm Grimston", "text": "Malcolm Grimston\n\nMalcolm Charles Grimston (born 1 May 1958) is a British advocate of nuclear power, and is also a scientific author, based at the Centre for Energy Policy and Technology at Imperial College London. He has featured extensively on British television and radio in context of the latest new-build power stations for nuclear power in the United Kingdom.\n\nGrimston was born in Cleethorpes, now in North East Lincolnshire, then in Lindsey. He grew up in North Yorkshire, attending the independent Scarborough College. He studied natural sciences at Magdalene College, Cambridge, where he graduated in 1979. He subsequently took a Postgraduate Certificate in Education (PGCE), again at Magdalene Cambridge.\n\nGrimston taught chemistry for seven years from 1980, at Stowe and Millfield schools. From 1987-92 he was an information officer at the United Kingdom Atomic Energy Authority (UKAEA). From 1992-95 he was an information officer at the British Nuclear Industry Forum (now called the Nuclear Industry Association). From 1999-2002 he was also at the Royal Institute of International Affairs, also known as Chatham House.\n\nSince 1995, Grimston has worked at the Imperial Centre for Energy Policy and Technology at Imperial College, as a senior research fellow until 1999 and an honorary senior research fellow since then. \n\n\nGrimston lives in Tooting. He is an independent councillor on Wandsworth London Borough Council, which the Conservatives have controlled since 1978. He has represented West Hill Ward since 1994. Standing as a Conservative for the first 20 years until his decision to become an Independent in 2014. In the 2018 council election he was returned for the Ward with 4,002 votes, one of the highest in Wandsworth Council's history and the largest majority over second place in the Council's history.\n"}
{"id": "9865555", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9865555", "title": "Marc Nikkel", "text": "Marc Nikkel\n\nThe Rev. Dr. Marc R. Nikkel (1950–2000) was an American Episcopal priest, artist, author, teacher, missionary to the Sudan, and advocate for the Dinka (\"Jieng\") people of South Sudan.\n\nMarc Nikkel was born to Mennonite parents in Reedley, California, and studied at the California State University School for the Visual Arts and at Fuller Theological Seminary before becoming an Anglican.\n\nIn 1981, Nikkel began teaching at Bishop Gwynne College in Mundri, Sudan. From 1984–1985, he studied at the General Theological Seminary of the Episcopal Church in Chelsea, New York, being ordained to the diaconate by the Bishop of Southwestern Virginia and to the priesthood on his return to the Sudan.\n\nNikkel was kidnapped by the Sudanese Liberation Army in July 1987 along with several other Americans. He was later released in northern Kenya. From 1987-1988, he taught at Saint Paul's United Theological College in Limuru, Kenya. He then left Africa to begin doctoral studies at the Centre for the Study of Christianity in the Non-Western World in Edinburgh, Scotland. \n\nAfter completing his doctoral work, Nikkel served as an advisor to several Sudanese Anglican dioceses, working in partnership with the Church Missionary Society of England and the Episcopal Church in the U.S.A. His primary work was in theological education among the Dinka people of the Nile basin in South Sudan.\n\nIn Kenya, Marc Nikkel also co-founded Kakuma Refugee Camp with Bishop Nathanael Garang of Bor Diocese, South Sudan. There at Kakuma, Marc Nikkel named the young Dinka survivors \"the Lost Boys.\"\n\nMarc Nikkel was diagnosed with cancer in 1998, and died in California in 2000. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "4338965", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4338965", "title": "Mary Ruefle", "text": "Mary Ruefle\n\nMary Ruefle (born 1952) is an American poet, essayist, and professor. She has published eleven collections of poetry, most recently, \"My Private Property\" (Wave Books, 2016). Ruefle's debut collection of prose, \"The Most Of It\", appeared in 2008 and her collected lectures, \"Madness, Rack, and Honey\", was published in August 2012, both published by Wave Books.\n\nShe has been widely published in magazines and journals including \"The American Poetry Review,\" \"Verse Daily,\" \"The Believer,\" \"Harper's Magazine,\" and \"The Kenyon Review,\" and in such anthologies as \"Best American Poetry, Great American Prose Poems\" (2003), \"American Alphabets: 25 Contemporary Poets\" (2006), and \"The Next American Essay\" (2002).\n\nThe daughter of a military officer, Ruefle was born in McKeesport, Pennsylvania in 1952, but spent her early years traveling around the U.S. and Europe. She graduated from Bennington College in 1974 with a degree in Literature. She currently teaches at the Vermont College of Fine Arts. In 2011 she served as the prestigious Bedell Distinguished Visiting Professor at the University of Iowa's Nonfiction Writing Program.\n\n\nFull-length Poetry Collections\nProse Collections\n\nNon-Fiction\n\nEssays\n\n"}
{"id": "37635", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37635", "title": "National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine", "text": "National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine\n\nThe National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine (also known as NASEM or the National Academies) is the collective scientific national academy of the United States. The name is used interchangeably in two senses: (1) as an umbrella term for its three quasi-independent honorific member organizations (the National Academy of Sciences (NAS), the National Academy of Engineering (NAE), and the National Academy of Medicine (NAM)). And (2) as the brand for studies and reports issued by the operating arm of the three academies, the National Research Council (NRC). The NRC was first formed in 1916 as an activity of the NAS. Now jointly governed by all three academies, it produces some 200 publications annually which are published by the National Academies Press.\n\nThe US National Academy of Sciences was created by an Act of Incorporation dated March 3, 1863, which was signed by then President of the United States Abraham Lincoln The Act stated that \" ... the Academy shall, whenever called upon by any department of the Government, investigate, examine, experiment, and report upon any subject of science or art ... \" With the American civil war raging, the new Academy was presented with few problems to solve, but it did address matters of \"... coinage, weights and measures, iron ship hulls, and the purity of whiskey...\"\nAll subsequently affiliated organizations have been created under this same overall congressional charter, including the two younger academies, National Academy of Engineering (NAE) (created in 1964) and NAM (created as the Institute of Medicine in 1970 and rechartered as NAM in 2015).\n\nUnder this same charter, the National Research Council was created in 1916. On June 19 of that year, then US President Woodrow Wilson requested that the National Academy of Sciences organize a \"National Research Council\". The purpose of the Council (at first called the National Research Foundation) was in part to foster and encourage \"the increased use of scientific research in the development of American industries ... the employment of scientific methods in strengthening the national defense ... and such other applications of science as will promote the national security and welfare.\"\n\nAt the time, the Academy's effort to support national defense readiness, the Committee on Nitric Acid Supply, was approved by Secretary of War Newton D. Baker. Nitric acid was the substance basic in the making of propellants such as cordite, high explosives, dyes, fertilizers, and other products but availability was limited due to World War I. The NRC, through its committee, recommended importing Chilean saltpeter and the construction of four new ordinance plants. These recommendations were accepted by the War Department in June 1917, although the plants were not completed prior to the end of the war. <br> \nIn 1918, Wilson formalized the NRC's existence under Executive Order 2859. Wilson's order declared the function of the NRC to be in general:\nDuring World War I, the United States was at war, the NRC operated as the Department of Science and Research of the Council of National Defense as well as the Science and Research Division of the United States Army Signal Corps. When war was first declared, the Council had organized committees on antisubmarine and gas warfare.\n\nOn June 1, 1917, the council convened a meeting of scientific representatives of the United Kingdom and France with interested parties from the U.S. on the subject of submarine detection. Another meeting with the British and French was held in Paris in October 1918, at which more details of their work was disclosed. As a result of these meetings, the NRC recommended that scientists be brought together to work on the problems associated with submarine detection. Due to the success of council-directed research in producing a sound-based method of detecting submarines, as well as other military innovations, the NRC was retained at the end of the war, though it was gradually decoupled from the military.\n\nNRC's Articles of Organization have been changed only three times: in 1956, January 1993, and July 2015.\n\nThe National Academy of Sciences, National Academy of Engineering and National Academy of Medicine are honorary membership organizations, each of which has its own governing Council, and each of which elects its own new members. The membership\nof the three academies totals more than 6,300 scientists, engineers, and health professionals. New members for each organization are elected annually by current members, based on their distinguished and continuing achievements in original research. By the terms of\nthe original 1863 Congressional charter, the three academies serve \"pro bono\" as \"advisers to the nation on science, engineering, and medicine.\"\n\nThe National Research Council is the operating arm of the three academies for the purpose of providing objective policy advice. Although separately chartered (see above), it falls legally under the overall charter of the National Academy of Sciences, whose ultimate fiduciary body is the NAS Council. In actual practice, the NAS Council delegates governing authority to a Governing Board of the National Research Council that is chaired jointly by the presidents of the three academies, with additional members chosen by them or specified in the charters of the academies.\n\nUnder this three-academy umbrella, the National Research Council produces reports that shape policies, inform public opinion, and advance the pursuit of science, engineering, and medicine.\n\nThe National Academies attempt to obtain authoritative, objective, and scientifically balanced answers to difficult questions of national importance. Top scientists, engineers, health professionals, and other experts (not limited to those in academies membership) are enlisted to address the scientific and technical aspects of some of society's problems. These experts are volunteers who serve on study committees that are convened to answer specific sets of questions. All committee members serve without pay. NASEM itself does not perform original research; rather it provides independent advice. Federal agencies are the primary financial sponsors of the Academies' work; additional studies are funded by state agencies, foundations, other private sponsors, and the National Academies endowment. The external sponsors have no control over the conduct or results of a study, once the statement of task and budget are finalized. Study committees gather information from many sources in public meetings but deliberate in private in order to avoid political, special interest, and sponsor influence.\n\nAll NRC reports go through an extensive external review facilitated by the NRC internal Report Review Committee (also consisting of members from the NAS, NAE, and NAM).\n\nThrough this study process, the National Academies produce around 200 reports each year. Recent reports cover such topics as addressing the obesity epidemic, the use of forensics in the courtroom, invasive plants, pollinator collapse, underage drinking, the Hubble Telescope, vaccine safety, the hydrogen economy, transportation safety, climate change, and homeland security. Many reports influence policy decisions; some are instrumental in enabling new research programs; others provide independent program reviews. The National Academies Press is the publisher for the National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine, and makes its publications available for free online reading, and the full book PDFs have been available for free download since 2011.\n\nThe National Research Council performs its studies and workshops through seven major divisions; Division of Behavioral and Social Sciences and Education, Division of Earth and Life Studies, Division of Engineering and Physical Sciences, Health and Medicine Division, Policy and Global Affairs Division, Transportation Research Board, and the Gulf Research Program.\n\nThe Christine Mirzayan Science and Technology Policy Fellowship is an annual program for current or recent graduate students to spend three months working in the National Academies. The Academies also administer the Marian Koshland Science Museum.\n\nIn 2001, the NRC published the report \"Climate Change Science: An Analysis of Some Key Questions,\" which emphasized the fact that national policy decisions made now and in the long-term future will influence the extent of any damage suffered by vulnerable human populations and ecosystems later in this century. The report endorsed findings of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) as representing the views of the scientific community:\n\nThe changes observed over the last several decades are likely mostly due to human activities, but we cannot rule out that some significant part of these changes is also a reflection of natural variability. Human-induced warming and associated sea level rise are expected to continue through the 21st century... The IPCC's conclusion that most of the observed warming of the last 50 years is likely to have been due to the increase in greenhouse gas concentrations accurately reflects the current thinking of the scientific community on this issue.\n\nIn 2013, the NRC published the report \"Abrupt Impacts of Climate Change: Anticipating Surprises,\" which provided an updated look at the issue of abrupt climate change and its potential impacts. This study differed from previous treatments of abrupt changes by focusing on abrupt climate changes and also abrupt climate impacts that have the potential to severely affect the physical climate system, natural systems, or human systems, often affecting multiple interconnected areas of concern.\n\nIn 2013, the NRC published the report \"Estimating the Incidence of Rape and Sexual Assault,\" which pointed out that approximately 80 percent of sexual assaults go unreported to law enforcement. The report recommends that the National Crime Victimization Survey adopt new approaches to interviews of rape victims, including changing the wording of questions.\n\nIn an article about the report, Amber Stevenson, clinical supervisor and therapist at the Nashville Sexual Assault Center, said that victim-blaming was the main issue preventing victims from coming forward: As long as we as a community continue to make victim-blaming statements, such as, \"She put herself in this situation,\" … \"She didn't fight back, she must have wanted it,\" we will continue to see rapes go unreported ... We have to stop blaming the victim. The conversation needs to shift to the person who chose to rape.\n\nThe 1992 report, \"Responsible Science: Ensuring the Integrity of the Research Process\" was updated in 2017 by the report, \"Fostering Integrity in Research:\" \n\n...as experience has accumulated with various forms of research misconduct, detrimental research practices, and other forms of misconduct, as subsequent empirical research has revealed more about the nature of scientific misconduct, and because technological and social changes have altered the environment in which science is conducted, it is clear that the framework established more than two decades ago needs to be updated.\n\nOne of the report's main concerns is that a growing percentage of recently published research turns out to be not reproducible due in part to inadequate support of standards of transparency in many fields as well as to various other detrimental research practices.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1793875", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1793875", "title": "One-room school", "text": "One-room school\n\nOne-room schools were commonplace throughout rural portions of various countries, including Prussia, Norway, Sweden, the United States, Canada, Australia, New Zealand, the United Kingdom, Ireland, and Spain. In most rural (country) and small town schools, all of the students met in a single room. There, a single teacher taught academic basics to several grade levels of elementary-age boys and girls. While in many areas one-room schools are no longer used, it is not uncommon for them to remain in developing nations and rural or remote areas. Examples include remote parts of the American West, the Falklands, and the Shetland Islands.\n\nPrussia (compare Prussian education system) was among the first countries in the world to introduce a tax-funded and generally compulsory primary education for either boys and girls. In comparison, compulsory schooling in France or Great Britain was not successfully enacted until the 1880s. The state sponsored system was introduced in the late 18th century and has had widespread influences since. The first Prussian schools were simple one-room schools, however already as of 1773 Friedrich Eberhard von Rochow set up a model school with primary education in two age related classes.\n\nIn Ireland, free primary education was mandated in 1931, prompting the establishment of many single-teacher National Schools across rural areas, most initially using a room in an existing building. By the 1890s there was a school in every parish. Most extant one- and two-room school buildings date from the decades after 1891 when primary education became compulsory. Most of those still in use today have been extended following merger with neighbouring schools. Since 2002, any state-funded school with at least 10 pupils is entitled to at least 2 teachers; the 21 schools which fell below this threshold are located on offshore islands. In recent decades, an increasing number of schools have been founded for parents not content with the National School system. These include \"Gaelscoileanna\" (which teach through Irish rather than English) and multi-denominational schools (most Irish schools are controlled by one or other of the main Christian churches). Although such schools eventually become eligible for state funding, they usually begin with a single teacher in a room or prefabricated building.\n\nMany schools also served as the local chapel on Sundays, and evening/Saturday meeting places for local people and activities. Being mostly rural, many schools had no water or sanitation and this was often provided by converting wells into toilets, melting snow for water in the winter and relying on the help of nearby farms in the summer. \n\nTeaching standards often varied from school to school as the teacher was compelled to coach children of all ages/grades within one room and regardless of their area of main competence.\n\nThe quality of facilities at one-room schools varied with local economic conditions, but generally, the number of children at each grade level would vary with local populations. Most buildings were of simple frame construction, some with the school bell on a cupola. In the Midwest, sod construction was also used, as well as stone and adobe in areas like the Southwest where trees were scarce. In some locations, the schoolhouse was painted red, but most seem to have been white. \n\nMission Ridge School was one of the early schools in Mason County, West Virginia. It has since been moved to the West Virginia State Farm Museum complex near Point Pleasant. Examination of the materials in this building indicates that boards and timbers were hand-sawed and also hand-planed. Square nails were used throughout the building. Except for the roof and a few boards in the floor, all of the material in this building is original. The blackboard is painted black. It was not until much later that slate was used for chalkboards, although students often had individual slates for writing practice.\n\nTeachers in one-room schools were often former students themselves. Their role is well-described by a student from Kentucky in the 1940s:\nThe teachers that taught in the one room, rural schools were very special people. During the winter months they would get to the school early to get a fire started in the potbelly stove, so the building would be warm for the students. On many occasions they would prepare a hot, noon meal on top of the stove, usually consisting of soup or stew of some kind. They took care of their students like a new mother hen would care for her newly hatched chicks; always looking out for their health and welfare.\n\nA typical school day was 9 a.m. to 4 p.m., with morning and afternoon recesses of 15 minutes each and an hour period for lunch. \"The older students were given the responsibility of bringing in water, carrying in coal or wood for the stove. The younger students would be given responsibilities according to their size and gender such as cleaning the black board (chalkboard), taking the erasers outside for dusting plus other duties that they were capable of doing.\"\n\nTransportation for children who lived too far to walk was often provided by horse-drawn kid hack or sulky, which could only travel a limited distance in a reasonable amount of time each morning and evening, or students might ride a horse, these being put out to pasture in an adjoining paddock during the day. In more recent times, students rode bicycles.\n\nThe school house was the center and focus for thousands of rural communities, hamlets, and small towns. Often, town meetings and picnics were also held there. \n\nThe vast majority of one-room schools in the United States are no longer used as schools and have either been torn down or converted for other purposes. However, in some rural communities, including among the Amish, one-room or two-room schools are still used, primarily for elementary education, with students graduating to local or regional middle and high schools.\n\nThere are several historic one-room schoolhouses in the United States that were built in the shape of an octagon, instead of the more traditional rectangular style. Most are located in the northeastern part of the country and some have been restored and placed on the National Register of Historic Places.\n\nThe following octagonal schoolhouses still stand:\n\n\nThe teacher's residence, or teacherage, was often attached to the school, or very close by, so that a male teacher's wife and family were an integral part of the management and support system for the school. Single, female teachers were more often billeted or boarded with a local family to provide for social norms requiring social supervision of single females.\n\nMotorized school buses in the 1920s made longer distances possible, and one-room schools were soon consolidated in most portions of the United States into multiple classroom schools where classes could be held separately for various grade levels. Gradually, one-room school houses were replaced. Most one-room schools had been replaced by larger schools by World War II except in the most rural areas. However, they are still common in rural parts of Australia and Alaska.\n\nIn Calvert County, Maryland, Port Republic School Number 7 closed its doors in 1932 and sat unused for over 40 years. Then, in 1976 the Calvert Retired Teachers Association, looking for a Bicentennial Year project, decided to restore the one-room schoolhouse. On July 24, 1977, after months of hard work by teachers and community volunteers, the old school bell rang out once more, and the little one-room school house, filled with its memories and memorabilia, was ready for visitors. It is now one of the county's tourist attractions. A similar project was done in Queen Anne's County, Maryland, by retired Teachers and Community Volunteers. The restored schoolhouse is located in front of Queen Anne's County High School. In Iowa, over 125 small one-room school houses have been turned into local museums. The buildings in some places found new purpose as homes. \n\nIn Harrisburg, Nebraska, Flowerfield School serves as a living museum, and fourth-graders within the Nebraska panhandle spend a day at Flowerfield going through an average school day in 1888. The students have the opportunity to experience both log and sod versions of the house, writing with quill pens, and a trip to the nearby museum, where they learn about other aspects of life in 1888.\n\nIn Vandalia, Indiana, the Vandalia District # 2 one-room schoolhouse served Owen County’s Lafayette Township students in grades 1 – 8 from the time it was completed in 1868 until it closed in 1951. The building, restored by a group of volunteers in 1976, is presently maintained and preserved by the Vandalia Community Preservation Association.\n\nThe One Room School House Project of Southwestern College in Winfield, Kansas, includes listings and information on some 880 schools throughout the state and nation. The information, pictures, and stories included in this site have been collected and sent to the project by researchers and historians from across America.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46184243", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46184243", "title": "Pan-African Mathematics Olympiads", "text": "Pan-African Mathematics Olympiads\n\nThe Pan-African Mathematics Olympiads (P.A.M.O.) are the African version of the IMO, International Mathematical Olympiad.\n\nThis event organized each year by the African Mathematics Union (AMU) is a competition among the best pupils in Mathematics of the Secondary Education who are less than twenty (20) years old.\n\nThe first PAMO was organized in 1987.\n\nThe competition is made of two rounds. Each round is made of 3 problems for four hours and thirty minutes while each problem's total score is 7 points. There are four candidates per country.\n"}
{"id": "46367821", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46367821", "title": "Pierre Berault", "text": "Pierre Berault\n\nPierre Berault was a 17th-century French grammarian. A Jesuit monk, Berault converted to Protestantism in 1671 and subsequently taught French in England.\n\n"}
{"id": "21799875", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21799875", "title": "Project IMUSE", "text": "Project IMUSE\n\nIMUSE is a non-profit organization run by students at Harvard, Tsinghua, and Peking University that aims to foster mutual curiosity, respect, and understanding between people in China and North America by providing them with opportunities for personal reflection and social interaction about issues pertaining to both regions today.\n\nIMUSE has three primary goals:\n\nProject IMUSE was first conceived by three Harvard undergraduates William Cong, Alvin Huang, and MJ Tang, against the backdrop of global anticipation of the Beijing Olympics. Since its inception in 2007, IMUSE has hosted several programs to this aim.\n\nIn 2008, IMUSE held three primary events. The first was the North American campus tour program, in which fourteen outstanding and competitively selected delegates from Tsinghua and Peking Universities traveled to Harvard, MIT, Tufts, Georgetown, Princeton University, Swarthmore, the University of Pennsylvania, Yale, McGill, Stanford, and Washington University to hold public panel discussions with local students on topics in modern China. In concert with these panel discussions, IMUSE also sponsored speaker events with such invited guests as McKinsey Global Institute fellow Dr. Janamitra Devan, Dartmouth College professor David Kang, international celebrity Jet Li, and more.\n\nIMUSE's second endeavor, the China in my Eyes essay and photography competition, was a creative work competition open to all postsecondary school students in North America. The only prompt, \"Through an essay or a photograph, tell us about China in your eyes,\" was left purposely open-ended in order to encourage deep reflection and creative thought. From several hundred entries, six grand-prize winners and twenty runners-up were chosen to receive a free two-week trip to the Beijing Olympics/a new Lenovo laptop or a limited-edition Beijing 2008 collectible coin set, respectively.\n\nThe conclusion of this competition brought IMUSE to its third program, the Lenovo IMUSE 2008 Beijing Olympics Fellowship Program, in which four of the six grand-prize \"China in my Eyes\" winners traveled to Beijing for two weeks in the beginning of August to have as personal and intimate of an experience of life in China as possible. In addition to touring historical sites, attending Olympic events, and socializing with host families and assigned Chinese student liaisons, the four fellows also gave a public panel discussion at Peking University analogous to those hosted by IMUSE in North America.\n\nThe IMUSE 2009 Beijing Summer Fellowship Program will brought thirty outstanding postsecondary students from Chinese and American colleges and graduate schools together from August 9 to August 21, 2009 to share their opinions, experience Chinese culture, and learn from one another. During the fellowship, Chinese and American delegates participated alongside one another in a variety of activities designed to be both academically and personally enriching. Delegates engaged in panel discussion events with a student audience, where they discussed the pertinent issues facing Chinese-American relations today. They interacted with and learned from distinguished guest speakers, which in past IMUSE events have included distinguished academics and celebrities from both America and China. As IMUSE is strongly committed to improving the quality of life for individuals in both countries, the fellowship included a short period of public service within an underprivileged community. Other activities and workshops covered a variety of topics from politics to pop culture to food. All events are carried out in English, and no knowledge of Chinese is necessary.\n\nIn an effort to help students become familiar with Beijing and all that it has to offer, IMUSE facilitated tours to sites of cultural interest as well as major businesses and government offices within the city. In addition, two days of the fellowship were spent visiting a village outside Beijing, granting delegates a rare opportunity to glimpse the rural China so often overlooked by Western visitors. In order to help document their experiences, delegates each kept a blog during the two weeks that was temporarily uploaded onto the IMUSE website.\n\nStudents stayed the two weeks in a hotel and had all necessary living expenses paid for, including accommodations, food, ground transportation, and $500 toward transportation to and from Beijing.\n\nIn 2009, in addition to being a national nonprofit organization, IMUSE became a registered Harvard College student organization. Since then, it has held annual student conferences across China and North America. \n\nAccording to the mission statement of IMUSE, it is hoped that the dynamic, multidisciplinary, and challenging events that it facilitates will expose both American and Chinese delegates to a better understanding of each other, and foster friendships and relationships that last long after the events themselves have ended.\n\nThe most recent IMUSE project is the IMUSE 2017 Beijing Summer Fellowship Program.\n\nThe program will include delegates from North American schools and 15 delegates from Chinese schools. All students in an American postsecondary school (including two- and four-year colleges, graduate schools, and vocational, technical, and trade schools) are eligible to apply. Students need not be American citizens to apply. Applications may be made through the foundation website: https://projectimuse.github.io/\n\n http://www.projectimuse.org \n"}
{"id": "4206694", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4206694", "title": "Prussian education system", "text": "Prussian education system\n\nThe Prussian education system refers to the system of education established in Prussia as a result of educational reforms in the late 18th and early 19th century, which has had widespread influence since. The Prussian education system was introduced as a basic concept in the late 18th century and was significantly enhanced after Prussia's defeat in the early stages of the Napoleonic Wars. The Prussian educational reforms inspired other countries and remains important as a biopower in the Foucaultian sense for nation-building. \n\nThe term itself is not used in German literature, which refers to the primary aspects of the Humboldtian education ideal respectively as the Prussian reforms; however, the basic concept remains fruitful and has led to various debates and controversies. Twenty-first century primary and secondary education in Germany and beyond still embodies the legacy of the Prussian education system.\n\nThe basic foundations of a generic Prussian primary education system were laid out by Frederick the Great with his Generallandschulreglement, a decree of 1763, authored by Johann Julius Hecker. Hecker had already before (in 1748) founded the first teacher's seminary in Prussia. His concept of providing teachers with the means to cultivate mulberries for homespun silk, which was one of Frederick's favorite projects, found the King's favour. It expanded the existing schooling system significantly and required that all young citizens, both girls and boys, be educated by mainly municipality-funded schools from the age of 5 to 13 or 14. Prussia was among the first countries in the world to introduce tax-funded and generally compulsory primary education. In comparison, in France and Great Britain, compulsory schooling was not successfully enacted until the 1880s.\n\nThe Prussian system consisted of an eight-year course of primary education, called \"Volksschule\". It provided not only basic technical skills needed in a modernizing world (such as reading and writing), but also music (singing) and religious (Christian) education in close cooperation with the churches and tried to impose a strict ethos of duty, sobriety and discipline. Mathematics and calculus were not compulsory at the start and taking such courses required additional payment by parents. Frederick the Great also formalized further educational stages, the Realschule and as the highest stage the gymnasium (state-funded secondary school), which served as a university-preparatory school.\n\nConstruction of schools received some state support, but they were often built on private initiative. Friedrich Eberhard von Rochow, a member of the local gentry and former cavalry officer in Reckahn, Brandenburg, installed such a school. Von Rochow cooperated with Heinrich Julius Bruns (1746–1794), a talented teacher of modest background. The two installed a model school for rural education that attracted more than 1,200 notable visitors between 1777 and 1794.\n\nThe Prussian system, after its modest beginnings, succeeded in reaching compulsory attendance, specific training for teachers, national testing for all students (of both genders), a prescribed national curriculum for each grade and mandatory kindergarten. Training of teachers was increasingly organized via private seminaries. Hecker had already in 1748 founded the first \"Lehrerseminar\", but the density and impact of the seminary system improving significantly until the end of the 18th century. In 1810, Prussia introduced state certification requirements for teachers, which significantly raised the standard of teaching. The final examination, \"Abitur\", was introduced in 1788, implemented in all Prussian secondary schools by 1812 and extended to all of Germany in 1871. Passing the Abitur was a prerequisite to entering the learned professions and higher echelons of the civil service. The state-controlled Abitur remains in place in modern Germany.\n\nThe Prussian system had by the 1830s attained the following characteristics:\n\nThe overall system was soon widely admired for its efficiency and reduction of illiteracy, and inspired education leaders in other German states and a number of other countries, including Japan and the United States.\n\nThe underlying Humboldtian educational ideal of brothers Alexander and Wilhelm von Humboldt was about much more than primary education; it strived for academic freedom and the education of both cosmopolitan-minded and loyal citizens from the earliest levels. The Prussian system had strong backing in the traditional German admiration and respect for \"Bildung\" as an individual's drive to cultivate oneself from within.\n\nMajor drivers for improved education in Prussia since the 18th century had a background in the middle and upper middle strata of society and were pioneered by the \"Bildungsbürgertum\". The concept as such faced strong resistance both from the top, as major players in the ruling nobility feared increasing literacy among peasants and workers would raise unrest, and from the very poor, who preferred to use their children as early as possible for rural or industrial labor.\n\nThe system's proponents overcame such resistance with the help of foreign pressure and internal failures, after the defeat of Prussia in the early stages of the Napoleonic Wars. After the military blunder of Prussian drill and line formation against the levée en masse of the French revolutionary army in the Battle of Jena–Auerstedt in 1806, reformers and German nationalists urged for major improvements in education. In 1809 Wilhelm von Humboldt, having been appointed minister of education, promoted his idea of a generic education based on a neohumanist ideal of broad general knowledge, in full academic freedom without any determination or restriction by status, profession or wealth. Humboldt's was one of the earliest white papers to lay out a reform of a country's educational system as a whole. Humboldt's concept still forms the foundation of the contemporary German education system. The Prussian system provided compulsory and basic schooling for everyone, but the significantly higher fees for attending \"gymnasium\" or a university imposed a high barrier between upper social strata and middle and lower social strata.\n\nIn 1807 Johann Gottlieb Fichte had urged a new form of education in his \"Addresses to the German Nation\". While Prussian (military) drill in the times before had been about obedience to orders without any leeway, Fichte asked for shaping of the personality of students: \"\" The citizens should be made able and willing to use their own minds to achieve higher goals in the framework of a future unified German nation state. Fichte and other philosophers, such as the Brothers Grimm, tried to circumvent the nobility's resistance to a common German nation state via proposing the concept of a \"\", nationhood without needing a state but based on a common language, musical compositions and songs, shared fairy tales and legends and a common ethos and educational canon.\n\nVarious German national movement leaders engaged themselves in educational reform. For example, Friedrich Ludwig Jahn (1778–1852), dubbed the \"Turnvater\", was the father of German gymnastics and a student fraternity leader and nationalist but failed in his nationalist efforts; between 1820 and 1842 Jahn's gymnastics movement was forbidden because of his proto-Nazi politics. Later on, Jahn and others were successful in integrating physical education and sports into Prussian and overall German curricula and popular culture.\n\nBy 1870, the Prussian system began to privilege High German as an official language against various ethnic groups (such as Poles, Sorbs and Danes) living in Prussia and other German states. Previous attempts to establish \"Utraquism\" schools (bilingual education) in the east of Prussia had been identified with high illiteracy rates there.\n\nPietism, a reformist group within Lutheranism, forged a political alliance with the King of Prussia based on a mutual interest in breaking the dominance of the Lutheran state church. The Prussian Kings, Calvinists among Lutherans, feared the influence of the Lutheran state church and its close connections with the provincial nobility, while Pietists suffered from persecution by the Lutheran orthodoxy. Bolstered by royal patronage, Pietism replaced the Lutheran church as the effective state religion by the 1760s. Pietist theology stressed the need for \"inner spirituality\" (), to be found through the reading of Scripture. Consequently, Pietists helped form the principles of the modern public school system, including the stress on literacy, while more Calvinism-based educational reformers (English and Swiss) asked for externally oriented, utilitarian approaches and were critical of internally soul searching idealism.\n\nPrussia was able to leverage the Protestant Church as a partner and ally in the setup of its educational system. Prussian ministers, particularly Karl Abraham Freiherr von Zedlitz, sought to introduce a more centralized, uniform system administered by the state during the 18th century. The implementation of the Prussian General Land Law of 1794 was a major step toward this goal. However, there remains in Germany to the present a complicated system of burden sharing between municipalities and state administration for primary and secondary education. The various confessions still have a strong say, contribute religious instruction as a regular topic in schools and receive state funding to allow them to provide preschool education and kindergarten. In comparison, the French and Austrian education systems faced major setbacks due to ongoing conflicts with the Catholic Church and its educational role. The introduction of compulsory schooling in France was delayed till the 1880s.\n\nGenerations of Prussian and also German teachers, who in the 18th century often had no formal education and in the very beginning often were untrained former petty officers, tried to gain more academic recognition, training and better pay and played an important role in various protest and reform movements throughout the 19th and into the 20th century. Namely the Revolutions of 1848 in the German states and the protests of 1968 saw a strong involvement of (future) teachers. There is a long tradition of parody and ridicule, where teachers were being depicted in a janus-faced manner as either, authoritarian drill masters or, on the other hand, poor wretches which were suffering the constant spite of pranking pupils, negligent parents and spiteful local authorities.\n\nA 2010 book title like \"Germany, your teachers; why the future of our children is being decided in the classroom\" shows the 18th and 19th century Enlightenment ideals of teachers educating the nation about its most sacred and important issues. The notion of Biedermeier, a petty bourgeous image of the age between 1830 and 1848er was coined on Samuel Friedrich Sauter, a school master and poet which had written the famous German song \"Das arme Dorfschulmeisterlein\" (The poor little schoolmaster). Actually the 18th primary teachers income was a third of a parish priest and teachers were being described as being as uppity as proverbially poor. However German notion of homeschooling was less than favorable, Germans deemed the school system as being necessary. E.g. Heinrich Spoerls 1933 \"escapist masterpiece\" novel (and movie) Die Feuerzangenbowle tells the (till the present) popular story of a writer going undercover as a student at a small town school after his friends in Berlin tell him that he missed out on the best part of growing up by being homeschooled.\n\nState-oriented mass educational systems were instituted in the 19th century in the rest of Europe. They have become an indispensable component of modern nation-states. Public education was widely institutionalized throughout the world and its development has a close link with nation-building, which often occurred in parallel. Such systems were put in place when the idea of mass education was not yet taken for granted.\n\nIn Austria, Empress Maria Theresa had already made use of Prussian pedagogical methods in 1774 as a means to strengthen her hold over Austria. The introduction of compulsory primary schooling in Austria based on the Prussian model had a powerful role, a biopower in the sense of Michel Foucault sense in establishing this and others modern nation states shape and formation.\n\nThe Prussian reforms in education spread quickly through Europe, particularly after the French Revolution. The Napoleonic Wars first allowed the system to be enhanced after the 1806 crushing defeat of Prussia itself and then to spread in parallel with the rise and territorial gains of Prussia after the Vienna Congress. Heinrich Spoerl's son Alexander Spoerl \" (\"Memories of a Mediocre Student\") describes and satirises the role of the formational systems in the Prussian Rhine Province during the early 20th century, in a famous novel of 1950, dedicated to Libertas Schulze-Boysen.\n\nWhile the Russian Empire was among the most reactionary regimes with regard to common education, the German ruling class in Estonia and Latvia managed to introduce the system there under Russian rule. The Prussian principles were adopted by the governments in Norway and Sweden to create the basis of the primary (\"grundskola\") and secondary (\"gymnasium\") schools across Scandinavia. Unlike in Prussia, the Swedish system aimed to expand even secondary schooling to the peasants and workers. As well in Finland, then a Russian grand duchy with a strong Swedish elite, the system was adopted. Education and the propagation of the national epic, the \"Kalevala\", was crucial for the Finnish nationalist Fennoman movement. The Finnish language achieved equal legal status with Swedish in 1892. France and the UK failed until the 1880s to introduce compulsory education, France due to conflicts between a radical secular state and the Catholic Church. In Scotland, local church-controlled schools were replaced by a state system in 1872. In England and Wales, the government started to subsidise schooling in 1833, various measures followed till a local School Boards were set up under the Forster Act of 1870, local School Boards providing free (taxpayer financed) and compulsory schooling were made universal in England and Wales by the Act of 1891, schooling having been made compulsory by the Act of 1880. However, unlike Nazi Germany and the Soviet Union, both private schools and education by means other than schooling remained legal in the United Kingdom.\n\nEarly 19th-century American educators were also fascinated by German educational trends. In 1818, John Griscom gave a favorable report of Prussian education. English translations were made of French philosopher Victor Cousin's work, \"Report on the State of Public Education in Prussia\". Calvin E. Stowe, Henry Barnard, Horace Mann, George Bancroft and Joseph Cogswell all had a vigorous interest in German education. The Prussian approach was used for example in the Michigan Constitution of 1835, which fully embraced the Prussian system by introducing a range of primary schools, secondary schools, and the University of Michigan itself, all administered by the state and supported with tax-based funding. However, the concepts in the Prussian reforms of primordial education, \"Bildung\" and its close interaction of education, society and nation-building are in conflict with some aspects of American state-sceptical libertarian thinking.\n\nIn 1843, Mann traveled to Germany to investigate how the educational process worked. Upon his return to the United States, he incorporated his experiences in his advocacy for the common school movement in Massachusetts. Mann persuaded his fellow modernizers, especially those in his Whig Party, to legislate tax-supported elementary public education in their states. New York state soon set up the same method in 12 different schools on a trial basis. Most northern states adopted one version or another of the system he established in Massachusetts, especially the program for \"normal schools\" to train professional teachers.\n\nThe basic concept of a state-oriented and administered mass educational system is still not granted in the English-speaking world, where either the role of the state as such or the role of state control specifically in education faces still (respectively again) considerable skepticism. The actual process of \"policy borrowing\" between different educational systems has been rather complex and differentiated. Mann himself had stressed in 1844 that the US should copy the positive aspects of the Prussian system but not adopt Prussia's obedience to the authorities. One of the important differences is that in the German tradition, there is stronger reference to the state as an important principle, as introduced for example by Hegel's philosophy of the state, which is in opposition to the Anglo-American contract-based idea of the state.\n\nEarly Prussian reformers took major steps to abandon both serfdom and the line formation as early as 1807 and introduced mission-type tactics in the Prussian military in the same year. The latter enlarged freedom in execution of overall military strategies and had a major influence in the German and Prussian industrial culture, which profited from the Prussian reformers' introduction of greater economic freedom. The mission-type concept, which was kept by later German armed forces, required a high level of understanding, literacy (and intense training and education) at all levels and actively invited involvement and independent decision making by the lower ranks. Its intense interaction with the Prussian education system has led to the proverbial statement, \"The battles of Königgrätz (1866) and Sedan (1870) have been decided by the Prussian primary teacher\".\n\nIn 1918, the Kingdom of Prussia became a republic. Socialist Konrad Haenisch, the first education minister (\"Kultusminister\"), denounced what he called the \"demons of morbid subservience, mistrust, and lies\" in secondary schools. However, Haenisch's and other radical left approaches were rather short-lived. They failed to introduce an \"Einheitsschule\", a one-size-fits-all unified secular comprehensive school, throughout Germany.\n\nThe (Weimar educational compromise) of 1919 confirmed the tripartite Prussian system, ongoing church influence on education, and religion as a regular topic, and it allowed for peculiarities and individual influence of the German states, widely frustrating the ambitions of radical leftist educational reformers. Still, Prussian educational expert (1887–1976) provided various studies (with titles such as \"School of Democracy\") of the US education system for the Prussian government in the 1920s. The Nazi government's 1933 Gleichschaltung did away with state's rights, church influence and democracy and tried to impose a unified totalitarian education system and a Nazi version of the \"Einheitsschule\", with strong premilitary and antisemitic aspects.\n\nAfter 1945, the Weimar educational compromise again set the tone for the reconstruction of the state-specific educational system as laid out in the Prussian model. In 1946 the US occupation forces failed completely in their attempt to install comprehensive and secular schooling in the US Occupation Zone. This approach had been endorsed by High Commissioner John J. McCloy and was led by the high-ranking progressive education reformer Richard Thomas Alexander, but it faced determined German resistance. The fiercest defender of the originally Prussian tripartite concept and humanist educational tradition was archconservative Alois Hundhammer, a former Bavarian monarchist, devout Catholic enemy of the Nazis and (with regard to the individual statehood of Bavaria) firebrand anti-Prussian coauthor of the 1946 Constitution of Bavaria. Hundhammer, as soon as he was appointed Bavarian minister of Culture and Education, was quick to use the newly granted freedoms, attacking Alexander in radio speeches and raising rumors about Alexander's secularism, which led to parents' and teachers' associations expressing fears about a reduction in the quality of education. Hundhammer involved Michael von Faulhaber, Archbishop of Munich, to contact New York Cardinal Francis J. Spellman, who intervened with the US forces; the reform attempts were abolished as soon as 1948.\n\nThe Prussian legacy of a mainly tripartite system of education with less comprehensive schooling and selection of children as early as the fourth grade has led to controversies that persist to the present. It has been deemed to reflect 19th-century thinking along class lines. One of the basic tenets of the specific Prussian system is expressed in the fact that education in Germany is, against the aim of the 19th-century national movement, not directed by the federal government. The individual states maintain \"Kulturhoheit\" (cultural predominance) on educational matters.\n\nThe Humboldt approach, a central pillar of the Prussian system and of German education to the present day, is still influential and being used in various discussions. The present German universities charge no or moderate tuition fees. They therefore lack the more lavish funds available for example to Ivy League universities in the US, which make possible a quality of education and research that enable academics and students to fully realize Humboldt's ideal. The perceived lack of universities on the cutting edge in both research and education has been recently countered via the German Universities Excellence Initiative, which is mainly driven and funded at the federal level.\n\nGermany still focuses on a broad \"Allgemeinbildung\" (both 'generic knowledge' and 'knowledge for the common people') and provides an internationally recognized in-depth dual-track vocational education system, but leaves educational responsibility to individual states. The country faces ongoing controversies about the Prussian legacy of a stratified tripartite educational system versus Comprehensive schooling and with regard to the interpretation of the PISA studies. Some German PISA critics opposed its utilitarian \"value-for-money\" competence approach, as being in conflict with teaching freedom, while German proponents of the PISA assessment referred to the practical usability of Humboldt's approach and the Prussian educational system derived from it.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5880981", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5880981", "title": "School Year Abroad", "text": "School Year Abroad\n\nSchool Year Abroad (SYA) places American high school juniors and seniors in one of four independently operated schools in China, Italy, France or Spain for a full academic year. Students intensively learn the respective language of their country and live with a carefully selected host family. The program includes extensive cultural immersion, select courses taught in the native language and requisite subjects such as math and English taught in English. The program provides academic advisors, college counseling services, and administers the AP, SAT, SAT II, and PSAT tests at each school. Students earn U.S. high school credits while attending SYA and preparing for selective U.S. colleges and universities. SYA guides students through a challenging curriculum focused on developing skills for an increasingly interdependent world. Central to the SYA experience is the adventure of fully engaging with different languages, cultures and peoples.\n\nSpanish teacher Clark Vaughan conceived the idea, which was founded at Phillips Academy (Andover, Massachusetts) and its founding charter member schools are Phillips Exeter Academy (Exeter, New Hampshire), and St. Paul's School (Concord, New Hampshire), although it operates independently of these, and its 41 member schools. SYA's home office is located in North Andover, Massachusetts.\n\nSYA celebrated its 50th anniversary in 2015, and SYA France celebrated its 50th anniversary in 2017.\n\nThe current president of School Year Abroad is Thomas Hassan, former President of Phillips Exeter Academy and former first gentleman of New Hampshire.\n\nThe program in Spain is SYA's oldest. The original incarnation was \"Schoolboys Abroad\" and consisted of 11 students accompanied by founder Clark Vaughan and his wife Polly, plus two more teachers, who in 1964, traveled by ship on the \"MS Aurelia\" to study in Barcelona, Spain. Polly Vaughan chose the symbol that continues to serve as the logo for the program. Their son Christopher was in the fourth Andover class to participate in SYA.\n\nThough founded in Barcelona, the program relocated to Zaragoza in 1999. The move took place in order to facilitate the ease with which students learned and heard Castilian Spanish spoke around them. As the program grew in Barcelona, it became clear that the proliferation of Catalan, as well as the number of tourists, detracted from the immersion of the students. The move to Zaragoza, the fifth largest city in Spain, provided students with a city environment with less tourist attraction, making it necessary for Castilian Spanish to be spoken throughout the city.\n\nSYA Spain students attend classes on the sprawling, 425-square-meter second floor of a Neoclassical building in Zaragoza's city center on Paseo de Pamplona.\n\nSchool-to-School Exchanges\nSYA students here are able to participate in various school-to-school exchanges all over the country, providing excellent opportunities to become friends with Spanish students their own age. These range from exchanges lasting one to five days to evening seminars organized once a week.\n\nThrough \"One Day Here, One Day There\", an SYA student spends a day at a high school in Zaragoza, hosted by a counterpart their age; that same Spanish student attends classes at SYA the next day.\n\nThe program “Five days in . . .” Burgos, Madrid, Toledo or Sevilla enables an SYA student to go to one of these cities to attend classes and live with a local host family for five full days.\n\nSYA France is located in Rennes, the capital of Brittany. Founded in 1967, it is SYA's second oldest program. SYA France is open to students who are currently enrolled in at least level II of French. The majority of students take seven credits, including English and math. All but the English and math courses are taught in French.\n\nStudents are required to take English, math, French language, French literature, art history, history and French society and culture.\n\nBased on language proficiency tests administered in September and language-study previous records, students are placed in one of four groups (Arthur, Morgane, Lancelot, or Viviane which are named after characters from the fabled Knights of the Round Table which is thought to have taken place in Brittany) for the courses taught in French. Adjustments in the groups are generally made early in the year if appropriate. Math placement is based on prior experience and a placement test. Courses meet for a minimum of four 45-minute periods per week. All courses except for Advanced Algebra with Functions and Precalculus and Advanced Topics in Mathematics are taught at the honors or AP level.\n\nSYA France school trips are scheduled in accordance with the French academic calendar; during French school vacations, students travel all over France.\n\nIn 1994, the Chinese government allowed School Year Abroad to begin a program in Beijing. It was the first of its kind at either a high school or college level, with students being placed in host families for the full school year. The program operates out of the Second High School Attached to Beijing Normal University. SYA China is open to both beginners and students who have already studied Mandarin. All students take Mandarin Chinese Language, Chinese History and Chinese Society and Culture along with English and math, for a total of six credits. These courses meet four or five periods each week with the exception of Chinese Culture and Society, which meets two periods each week in addition to guest lectures and field trips. All courses except for Advanced Algebra with Functions, Precalculus and Advanced Topics in Mathematics, and Chinese Society and Culture are taught at the honors or AP level.\nMartial arts, traditional Chinese brush painting, calligraphy and music are offered as noncredit courses, pass/fail. Each course meets once per week. Home schools may accept these courses for credit if deemed appropriate. School Year Abroad does not distinguish between eleventh- and twelfth-grade students in the organization of classes.\n\nStudents are placed in class according to their proficiency in Chinese, which is assessed by a diagnostic exam administered at the beginning of the school year.\n\nSince it opened in 2001, SYA's Italian program has been housed in a 16th- century palazzo in the city of Viterbo in Lazio.\n\n"}
{"id": "54307334", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54307334", "title": "Sheryl McCollum", "text": "Sheryl McCollum\n\nSheryl \"Mac\" McCollum () is a crime analyst, college professor, and founder and director of the non-profit Cold Case Investigative Research Institute based in Atlanta, Georgia.\n\nMcCollum graduated high school from Woodward Academy, a preparatory school in Atlanta. She received a bachelor's degree in criminal justice from Georgia State University and a master's in criminal justice from Kaplan University.\n\nMcCollum's law-enforcement career began in 1982 at the Rape Crisis Center at Grady Memorial Hospital in Atlanta, Georgia. From there,she was director of the Metro Atlanta Cold Case Crime Analysis Squad. During the 1996 Olympic Games, she was the coordinator for the Crisis Response Team that planned and trained for four years and responded to the Centennial Olympic Park bombing, providing victim services.\n\nShe also served as the Georgia state director of Mothers Against Drunk Drivers.\n\nIn 2004, McCollum founded Cold Case Investigative Research Institute (CCIRI), a collaboration between Auburn University Montgomery, Faulkner University and Bauder College. CCIRI unites researchers, practitioners, students and the criminal justice community to work collectively to advance research, training and techniques in solving cold cases. CCIRI has since worked with 27 colleges and universities, more than 8,000 students and 600 experts, who have volunteered their time and talents to solve cold cases.a nationwide volunteer network made up of 27 colleges and universities, 600 forensic professionals and 5,000 students that assist victims' families and law enforcement by working on unsolved homicides, missing persons and kidnapping cases.\n\nBeginning in 2008, CNN followed four Bauder College students as they built case files in the Chandra Levy and Natalee Holloway cold-case investigations, led by McCollum and her Cold Case Investigative Research Institute. In 2009, McCollum's students, after pursuing the Levy investigation for more than a year, narrowed the suspect list to one.\n\nIn 2017, McCollum held workshops at CrimeCon, a conference advertised as a \"true-crime theme park\" for amateur sleuths. McCollum's workshops included Wine & Crime sessions, which she described for CrimeCon's blog: \"I’m giving you exactly what we know about a case that we’re working on. I’m holding nothing back. You’ll get the autopsy reports, the crime scene photographs, witness statements-- anything that we have, you will have. Then you go to work.\"\n\nMcCollum lives in the Atlanta area with her husband and two children.\n\n"}
{"id": "13757437", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13757437", "title": "Tanner Lectures on Human Values", "text": "Tanner Lectures on Human Values\n\nThe Tanner Lectures on Human Values is a multiversity lecture series in the humanities, founded in 1978, at Clare Hall, Cambridge University, by the American scholar Obert Clark Tanner. In founding the lecture, he defined their purpose as follows:\nIt is considered one of the top lecture series among top universities, and being appointed a lectureship is a recognition of the scholar's \"extra-ordinary achievement\" in the field of human values.\n\nPermanent lectureships are established at the following nine institutions:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5449035", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5449035", "title": "Thales Training &amp; Simulation", "text": "Thales Training &amp; Simulation\n\nThales Training & Simulation Ltd. is a multinational company which manufactures simulators, including full flight simulators and military simulators, and provides related training and support services. It is a wholly owned subsidiary of the Thales Group.\n\nThe origins of the company date back to the incorporation of Redifon in the United Kingdom in 1946. In 1948, the company moved to the then new town of Crawley in West Sussex. In 1981, the parent company British Electric Traction changed the company name to Rediffusion Simulation Limited (RSL) to take advantage of the then familiar Rediffusion brand name.\n\nIn 1988, the company was bought by Hughes Aircraft and renamed Hughes Rediffusion Simulation (HRSL).\n\nIn 1994, the company was taken over by Thomson-CSF, who merged it with Link Miles (acquired by Thomson-CSF in 1990) and renamed the company Thomson Training & Simulation (TTSL). The merged companies were based at the Manor Royal site at Crawley.\n\nIn 1998, the simulation business of Wormald Technology of Australia was bought and renamed Thales Training & Simulation Pty Ltd (TTSP).\n\nIn the United States, Burtek, bought in 1979 by Thomson-CSF, was renamed Thomson Training & Simulation Inc.\n\nAt the end of 2000, the company was renamed Thales Training & Simulation (TTS) when the parent company re-branded using the Thales name.\n\nThales sold its civilian fixed-wing simulation business to L-3 Link Simulation & Training UK in August 2012. The purchase included part of the TTS Crawley plant, but not Thales' military rotary-wing (helicopter) simulation business.\n\nThales Training & Simulation has four main manufacturing plants:\n\n\nIn addition, the company has joint ventures and/or customer support hubs in the United States, Saudi Arabia, China, etc.\n\nThales have built and now operate numerous types of aircraft simulators, including:\n\n"}
{"id": "47963379", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47963379", "title": "Thelma C. Davidson Adair", "text": "Thelma C. Davidson Adair\n\nThelma C. Davidson Adair (born August 29, 1920) is a Presbyterian educator, church leader, advocate for human rights, peace and justice issues, writer, guest speaker, educator, and activist. She has been a resident of Harlem, New York, since 1942. She has been active with Church Women United, a Christian women's advocacy movement.\n\nShe is an ordained Elder for the Mount Morris Ascension Presbyterian Church of New York City in Harlem. Adair was the moderator for the 1976 Assembly Presbyterian Church (U.S.A.). Her husband is the late Reverend Arthur Eugene Adair, founder and minister of the church from 1943 to 1979, who died in 1979.\n\nAdair is an advocate for early childhood education and helped to establish Head Start programs in Harlem. She is Professor Emeritus of the City University of Queens College, City University of New York.\n\nAdair is a graduate from Barber–Scotia College, Concord, North Carolina, and Bennett College, Greensboro, North Carolina. She earned a master's degree and Doctorate of Education from Teachers College, Columbia University.\n\nAdair was born in Iron Station, North Carolina, and lived there while in elementary school. Adair grew up during a period of North America history in the Southern United States known as the Jim Crow-era. She was born Thelma Cornelia Davidson in 1920, one of six children, in Iron Station, North Carolina.\nHer family subsequently moved to Kings Mountain, North Carolina. She married Reverend Dr. Arthur Eugene Adair. They moved to New York City in 1942. He became a Senior Pastor of Mount Morris United Presbyterian Church (UPC), and is a Harlem and Presbyterian educator.\n\nLike many African Americans and Americans, Adair participated in the World War II efforts at home and abroad. She worked in a war plant. She inspected radar tubes. She was also a young mother at the time. She described her experience:\nAdair was an organizer for West Harlem Head Start Programs. In 1944 she was an organizer for Mt. Morris UPC's Project Uplift, a precursor to. the Arthur Eugene and Thelma Adair Community Life Center Head Start. The center services more than 250 children throughout various locations in Harlem. Adair has published and written numerous articles on early childhood education. Her publications are authoritative guides for early childhood educators throughout the United States.\n\nIn 1976, Adair was elected as a Moderator of the General Assembly for the Presbyterian Church, the first black woman to attain this role, travelling to 115 countries during her term. She is one of the original founders of Presbyterian Senior Services, and is a participant with the Fellowship of the \"Least Coin\", a worldwide prayer movement. She was president of Church Women United from 1980 to 1984.\n\nShe was honored in 2011 by Congressman Charles Rangel. She attended the Selma, Alabama, 50th anniversary of the Selma to Montgomery marches across the Edmund Pettus Bridge.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28794657", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28794657", "title": "Tokyo School for the Deaf", "text": "Tokyo School for the Deaf\n\nThe , now called the Central School for the Deaf, was the first Deaf educational program to be established in the eastern capital during the Meiji period.\n\nThe Tokyo School for the Deaf was established in 1880. Initially, the school adopted a manual teaching method, despite international trends towards oralism.\n\nIn 1915, alumni of the Tokyo School for the Deaf founded the Japanese Association of the Deaf. This organization was the precursor of the Japanese Federation of the Deaf.\n\nBy the 1930s, the institution had grown to include an elementary school, a middle school, and a training department. The training department was intended for the training of those who planned to be teaching the Deaf.\n\nCurrently, the Central School for the Deaf serves students in two Tokyo venues: Shakuji Campus (石神井校舎) in Nerima and Otsuka Campus (大塚校舎) in Toshima.\n\nIn September 2010, some of the Tokyo faculty and students begin participating in an exchange program with their counterparts at Rochester School for the Deaf in Rochester, New York.\n\n"}
{"id": "1352668", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1352668", "title": "UKA", "text": "UKA\n\nUKA is the largest cultural festival in Norway and is arranged biennially by volunteer students from Trondheim. In 2017, the festival is set to be held for the 49th time. In 2015, 1700 students did volunteer work, while 90,000 event tickets were sold. The name \"UKA\" translates to \"the week\", although it now lasts for the better part of a month, with events including concerts, theatre, seminars and more.\n\nUKA was established in 1917 by students studying at the Norwegian Institute of Technology (NTH, now part of NTNU) in an attempt to improve the financial situation within the students' community in\nTrondheim. In 1917 the festival mainly consisted of a revue, which was arranged every other year except the mid-war\nyears. Starting with scarce resources UKA has been in constant growth and is today the largest Norwegian cultural festival with more concerts and entertainment than ever before. Although the festival now features big name artists, the organizers still consider revue, UKErevyen, as the \"heart\" of the festival.\n\nIt may seem hard to believe, but Norway's largest cultural festival is run entirely by volunteers, from top to bottom. Trondheim's tradition for volunteer work is well known, and a trademark for UKA. In 2009, 1400 volunteers made sure everything ran smoothly. 6500 spectators jumped up and down in Death Valley, 90 000 litres of beer were sold during the festival, activities spanning from juggling courses to crime night to wrestling were held in Death Valley and The Student Society in Trondheim, and commercial partners contributed with events like “UKA robot challenge”, where the contesters competed in building and programming Lego robots. The festival itself is a celebration of intellectual prowess and passionate commitment shown by the students. Consisting mainly of students recruited from Trondheim, the main audience is young people within the proximity of the city. There are events and lectures however, that targets a more mature audience, such as UKErevyen.\n\nEvery UKErevyen revue is given a name, which also becomes the name of the entire festival. The name is decided by the writers and is a well-kept secret all the way up to the opening of the festival and the play, and only a handful people outside of the writers' collegium knows it before it's officially revealed. This is a big event where the name is physically uncovered at midnight in front of the student society, with several thousand attendants.\n\nThe writers aren't entirely free in choosing the name either. A more or less strict set of rules applies, never written down, but followed from one festival to the next. The most important ones are that the name should consist of three syllables, and that it should have several meanings, either in splitting up the word(s) or rearranging the letters. The rules aren't always followed, as seen with the name of UKA-03; Glasur, that had only two syllables. It did, however, supply different interpretations, first of all with the word itself, meaning glaze, then \"Gla' sur\" which means \"happy sad\", and \"gla'rus\" (a rush of happiness). UKA-05 restored the rule of three syllables with the name Origo.\n\nUKA-17:\n\nUKA-15:\n\nUKA-13:\n\n\nUKA-11:\n\nUKA-09:\n\nUKA-07\n\nUKA-05\n\nFormer UKA festivals have included:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31490293", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31490293", "title": "US-China Education Trust", "text": "US-China Education Trust\n\nThe US-China Education Trust (USCET, ) is a non-profit organization based in Washington D.C. Founded in 1998 by Ambassador Julia Chang Bloch, the first Chinese-American U.S. Ambassador, USCET seeks to promote China–United States relations through a series of education and exchange programs. The organization sponsors a variety of fellowships, conferences, workshops and exchanges, focused primarily on strengthening Chinese academic institutions related to the fields of American Studies, Media and Journalism, American Governance, and International Relations. \n\nThe organization's expressed mission is \"to promote US-China relations through education and exchange for next-generation leaders.\"\n\nUSCET's activities currently fall within eight main program areas:\n\nConceived to strengthen American Studies programs in China, this consortium of academic institutions, now numbering more than 50, provides opportunities for members to collaborate, share resources, and develop their capacity to teach about American society and culture. One of the primary goals of the ASN is to promote a more comprehensive understanding of the United States in China by sponsoring academic research in fields that go beyond politics and US-China relations, which tend to dominate Chinese research about America. As such, the ASN encourages scholarly collaboration and research on topics such as American culture and religion. ASN activities include an annual conference for all member universities; an American Studies Fellows program which places young Chinese scholars at American universities for a mentored semester-long fellowship; and delegations of American Studies scholars from China to the annual meeting of the American Studies Association in the United States.\n\nSimilar to the ASN, the Media Education Consortium (MEC) is a network of schools of journalism and communication at over 30 Chinese universities. Through annual conferences and short-term workshops, USCET seeks to use the MEC to expand the capacity of Chinese universities to train professionally skilled journalists and broadcasters. MEC programs work to build practical investigative and reporting skills for Chinese journalism students, and to strengthen the role of professionalism and media ethics within Chinese media and communication curricula.\nAnnual MEC Programs Include: \n\n\nUSCET's earliest initiative in China, the Congressional Practicum, has expanded to include elections seminars, training sessions, and annual lectures that build knowledge among Chinese professionals, officials, and students about the workings of the US legislative and political process. Past programs have included case studies, hands-on training, and interactive exchanges among US and Chinese experts.\n\nThis program was the first in the United States to be launched under President Barack Obama's \"100,000 Strong\" Initiative to increase the number of American students studying in China. The program provides grants to American universities to encourage students to study abroad in China. Universities will use the funds to award travel grants to students enrolled in summer, semester, and academic year study abroad programs. Current partner universities include Boston University, San Francisco State University, the University of Arkansas, and the University of North Alabama.\nSummer Institutes are short term academic sessions for Asian students and scholars in the United States. The 2010 Summer Institute, entitled \"U.S. Foreign Policy for East Asian Student Leaders,\" brought 20 undergraduate students from China, Korea, and Japan to Washington, DC for a four-week academic program about American politics and society. The 2010 Institute combined classroom discussions, guest lectures, field trips, and a study tour.\n\nNamed in honor of American businessman and philanthropist Maurice Greenberg, this program supports the studies of 10 Chinese students from low-income families each year, covering the cost of their full tuition at Yunnan University.\n\nUSCET sponsors the participation of several Chinese university students at summer institutes organized each year by The Fund for American Studies (TFAS) at Georgetown University. Summer institutes cover a variety of topics including political journalism, philanthropy and voluntary service, business and government affairs, and comparative political and economic systems.\n\nUSCET is the programs arm of the FY Chang Foundation, a fund endowed by Ambassador Julia Chang Bloch and her husband Stuart Marshall Bloch at Harvard Law School in 1988. The foundation was established in memory of Bloch's father, Chang Fuyun, the first Chinese national to graduate from Harvard Law School, and offers scholarships to Chinese students to study at Harvard Law. In addition, the fund sponsors an annual FY Chang Lecture, which brings together eminent legal scholars and jurists from China, the US, Hong Kong and Taiwan to speak at the Peking University Law School. The 2010 FY Chang Lecture was given by former US Trade Representative Charlene Barshefsky.\n\nAmbassador Bloch first laid initial groundwork for the US-China Education Trust while serving as a Visiting Professor at the Institute for International Relations at Peking University during the 1998-1999 academic year. That year she lectured on American politics and US-China relations at the university and organized an international conference on the Asian financial crisis. She established a survey course at the university in American Civilization, a class which remains very popular on the campus today. \n\nIn 2001, USCET launched its first official project, a Congressional Studies program held at Fudan University's Center for American Studies. The organization formed a longstanding partnership with The Fund for American Studies (TFAS) in 2001, launching its first American Studies Summer Institute for Chinese undergraduate and graduate students at Georgetown University.\n\nIn 2004, the organization pioneered the foundation of the American Studies Network (ASN), a network of Chinese universities with American studies programs which currently includes more than 50 members. USCET's inaugural Financial Media Institute opened at Fudan University's School of Journalism in 2006. Directed by Terry Smith of PBS and Al Kamen of \"The Washington Post\", the program brought together 22 journalism students from across China to complete an intensive certificate program. 2006 also saw USCET cooperating with the U.S. Department of Labor in delivering its first legislative training program with the People's Congresses of Shanghai and Chongqing on Mine Safety. The program, designed to help China develop and implement laws to prevent mine accidents and deaths, addressed a high priority area of Chinese policymaking. Subsequent FMI's have been held alternately at Fudan University and Hong Kong Baptist University. \nThe success of the Financial Media Institute led USCET to expand its activities within media education. In 2008 the organization successfully co-sponsored a Symposium on Global Journalism Education Reform with UNESCO at Tsinghua University. This predated the formal launch of the Media Education Consortium in 2009. In its two years of operation the MEC has become a vehicle to expose Chinese media educators to Western journalism philosophy and practices and improve the quality of training to China's next-generation broadcasters and journalists. MEC activities now include an annual conference, short-term academic workshops for Chinese graduate students, and a Journalist-In-Residence Program.\n\nIn 2010, USCET became the first organization to launch a program under President Barack Obama's 100,000 Strong Initiative to increase American academic exchange with China. The program, called the USCET Student Leader Exchange Program, will offer competitive travel grants to sponsor universities who demonstrate considerable effort to expand the number of undergraduates they send to study abroad in China. USCET first unveiled the program in a joint announcement at USCET's 7th American Studies Network (ASN) conference with Carola McGiffert, US State Department Senior Advisor to the Assistant Secretary of State for East Asia and the Pacific.\n\nResources: USCET's website includes a comprehensive database of online resources related to American Studies, US-China relations, and academic exchange institutions between the US and China. A 2010 article by Terry Lautz in The Chronicle of Higher Education applauded this database as a good model for expanding American academic presence in China.\n\nAwards programs: In 2010 USCET held the first annual Congressional Visionary Award, presented to honor \"courage, foresight, and pioneering leadership in advancing US-China relations.\" The first annual awards luncheon honored Senator Dianne Feinstein who, as the mayor of San Francisco, launched the first ever \"sister cities\" relationship between an American city and a Chinese city, with the city of Shanghai. At the organization's 20th anniversary gala in 2009, it honored former Treasury Secretary Hank Paulson with an Executive Leadership Award.\n\nUSCET's funding base includes a variety of private foundations, government agencies, and corporate sponsors. \nPast donors include:\n\nUSCET was founded in 1998 by Julia Chang Bloch, the first Asian American to ever achieve the rank of ambassador. Bloch served as ambassador to Nepal from 1989-1993. Bloch's father, Chang Fuyun, was the first Chinese graduate of Harvard Law School. Bloch was born in Shandong, China and immigrated to San Francisco at age 9 with her parents in 1951. She holds a bachelor's degree in Communications and Public Policy from the University of California, Berkeley and a master's degree in Government and East Asia Regional Studies from Harvard University. Prior to founding USCET, Bloch spent 25 years in government service, holding various positions at the United States Agency for International Development, the US Information Agency, and the US Senate. She also spent five years in the private sector, serving various positions for Bank of America. She is married to retired lawyer and real estate specialist Stuart Marshall Bloch.\n\n\nOver the years, a variety of notable scholars, politicians, journalists, and other leaders have participated in USCET programs, including the following: \n"}
{"id": "285662", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=285662", "title": "Underwater basket weaving", "text": "Underwater basket weaving\n\nUnderwater basket weaving is an idiom referring in a negative way to supposedly useless or absurd college or university courses and often generally to refer to a perceived decline in educational standards.\nThe term also serves as an intentionally humorous generic answer to questions about an academic degree. It is also used to humorously refer to any non-academic elective course, specifically one that does not count towards any graduation requirements.\n\nIn weaving willow baskets, a trough of water is needed in which to soak the dried willow rods. They are then left to stand until pliable and ready to be used in weaving. The weaving is, however, not done under water. An issue of \"The American Philatelist\" from 1956 refers to an Alaskan village where \"Underwater basket weaving is the principal industry of the employables among the 94 Eskimos here. By way of explanation – the native reeds used in this form of basketry are soaked in water and the weavers create their handiwork with their hands and raw materials completely submerged in water throughout the process of manufacture\".\n\nThe phrase in its pejorative sense has been used since at least the mid-1950s. According to a 1953 article in the \"Boston Globe\" on \"Hepster Lingo,\" \"Any snap course in school is 'underwater basket weaving. In a letter to the editor of the \"Los Angeles Times\" in 1956, a correspondent bemoaned an alleged decline in academic standards among college football programs and mentioned \"majoring in underwater basket weaving, or the preparation and serving of smorgasbord, or, particularly at Berkeley, the combined course of anatomy and panty-raiding\". The following year, an article in the \"National Review\" mentioned that \"the bored students in the educationists' courses call those dreary subjects 'underwater basket-weaving courses, and another year on a newspaper column noted that \"One seaside university is bowing to the stern educational demands of the times by eliminating its popular course in underwater basket weaving\". An article in the \"Daily Collegian\" at Penn State University in 1961 refers to a parody in which \"a typical Miami coed majoring in underwater basket weaving was interviewed\". An article from 1976 refers to football players so dumb that they had to take underwater basket weaving, and another 1976 article refers to underwater basket-weaving as \"an old old family joke\".\n\nIn recent years, many subjects in the humanities have attempted to adopt scientific methodologies under the category of social sciences. Some of the courses offered in these subjects have drawn criticism; for instance, an op-ed expressed concern over the lack of rigor and scientific relevancy in coursework at the University of Minnesota. Such criticism has been accused of stereotyping the social sciences as underwater basket weaving subjects.\n\nDave Ramsey, American personal finance writer and radio host, has used the self-invented term \"German Polka History\" to describe university degree programs that are unlikely to result in a career and which he thus advises people against pursuing. He uses the term along with a degree in \"Left-Handed Puppetry\" as an umbrella description to avoid singling any specific degree for ridicule.\n\nThe phrase was used during the Vietnam War era to describe the sort of major that many young men who would otherwise not have entered college undertook to escape the draft. US Senator Gordon L. Allott referred in 1968 to \"the situation that we were in after World War II where we had universities setting up courses in underwater basket weaving, and all this sort of thing\". Senator Robert Byrd used the phrase in 1969 when questioning the use of funds to offer professional training to Cuban refugees. The University of Portsmouth, UK, has a joke syllabus for underwater basket weaving on the Technology faculty pages, and another joke syllabus proposal was posted by a University of Central Arkansas student magazine.\n\nUS punk band NOFX referred to an underwater basket weaving course in their song \"Anarchy Camp\".\n\nLinkedin adopted \"skill endorsement\" in 2012, and in response to the arbitrary nature of those skill attributions, some LinkedIn participants began to list \"Advanced Underwater Basket Weaving\" as a skill, thereby exercising some control over their online profile.\n\nSince 1980, Reed College in Portland, Oregon, has offered an underwater basket weaving class during Paideia, its festival of learning that offers informal, non-credit courses.\n\nThe Student Resource Center at the University of Arizona offered a submerged snorkeling basket-weaving course in spring 1998. In early 2009, a Rutgers University scuba diving instructor offered a one-off course. Underwater Basket Weaving is a trademark of the US Scuba Center Inc., which offers a specialty class designed to improve or more fully enjoy diving skills from which participants can \"take home a memorable souvenir.\"\n\nAs an April Fools joke, Coursera offered an online course on underwater basket weaving as of April 1, 2013. The class was supposed to \"consist of short lecture and demonstration videos, between 8 and 10 minutes in length, short quizzes, and practical weaving exercises.\" However, the joke is seen by some as being disrespectful of indigenous cultures, and the joke designer issued an apology which was posted on the Coursera class page for \"Aboriginal Worldviews and Education.\" The apology read, in part, \"By posting the course and video, we were not intending to be disrespectful to indigenous cultures, and we sincerely apologize to anyone we offended by the content of our video.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37618853", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37618853", "title": "Uni in the USA", "text": "Uni in the USA\n\nUni in the USA is a guide to universities around the world aimed at prospective students in the United Kingdom. The guide is a subsidiary of The Good Schools Guide, and is published in paperback by Galore Park. It is also available as an ebook and as a subscription on the guide's website.\n\nThe guide was first published in 2004 with only 25 university reviews, all written by British Harvard student Alice Fishburn. Since then it has grown to include about 65 US universities and about 30 in other countries. The expanded edition was first published in paperback in 2012 as \"Uni in the USA... and Beyond\", and contains forwards by the Fulbright Commission and by the headmaster of Wellington College, whose comments were noted by the \"Daily Telegraph\" and others.\n\n\"Uni in the USA\" consists of reviews of universities. It also includes information on how to choose and apply to universities as a UK resident. The reviews are written by UK students. The guide also presents reference material for applying and paying for university in the United States from a British perspective. Unlike other guides to university, \"Uni in the USA\" is aimed at British students. Like the \"Good Schools Guide\", \"Uni in the USA\" does not accept payment from any of the universities it reviews.\n\nThe guide was used by the Sutton Trust as part of their summer school program for helping British students apply to US universities.\n\nIn December 2012, Uni in the USA launched a forum service, intended for students, schools and others to discuss all aspects of studying abroad in America. Questions posted on the forum have received answers from experts on US applications.\n\n"}
{"id": "562034", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=562034", "title": "United States Academic Decathlon", "text": "United States Academic Decathlon\n\nThe Academic Decathlon (also called AcaDec, AcaDeca or AcDec) is the only annual high school academic competition organized by the non-profit United States Academic Decathlon Association (USAD). The competition consists of seven multiple choice tests, two performance events, and an essay. Academic Decathlon was created by Robert Peterson in 1968 for local schools in Orange County, California and expanded nationwide in 1981 by Robert Peterson, William Patton, first President of the new USAD Board and Phillip Bardos, Chairman of the new USAD Board. That year, 17 states and the District of Columbia participated, a number that has grown to include most of the United States and some international schools. Mr. Patton and Mr. Bardos served on the board in these two executive positions for the first 10 years of the USAD and not only personally contributed significantly both financially and in personal effort to the organization in those early day when there were no corporate sponsors they, along with Robert Peterson, were the major three factors in bringing corporate sponsors to the program during these challenging growth years eventually resulting in a financially self sustaining organization. In 2015 Academic Decathlon held its first ever International competition in Shanghai, China. Once known as United States Academic Decathlon, on March 1, 2013, it began operating as the Academic Decathlon. \n\nAcademic Decathlon is designed to include students from all achievement levels. Teams generally consist of nine members, who are divided into three divisions based on grade point average: Honors (3.75–4.00 GPA), Scholastic (3.00–3.74 GPA), and Varsity (0.00–2.99 GPA). Each team member competes in all ten events against other students in his or her division, and team scores are calculated using the top two overall individual scores from each team in all three divisions. Gold, silver, and bronze medals are awarded for individual events and for overall scores. To earn a spot at the national competition in April, teams must advance through local, regional, and state competitions, though some levels of competition may be bypassed for smaller states. Online competitions, separated into small, medium, and large categories, are also offered. USAD has expanded to include an International Academic Decathlon and has created an Academic Pentathlon for middle schools.\n\nThe ten events require knowledge in many academic disciplines. Students must take seven multiple choice tests in art, economics, language and literature, math, music, science and social science. These topics, with the exception of math, are thematically linked each year. One of the multiple choice events, alternating between science and social science, is chosen for the Super Quiz. In addition to the seven objective events, there are three subjective events graded by judges: essay, interview and speech.\n\nOver the years, there have been various small controversies, the most infamous being the scandal involving the Steinmetz High School team, which was caught cheating at the 1995 Illinois state finals. This event was later dramatized in the 2000 film \"Cheaters\". Academic Decathlon has been criticized by educators for the amount of time it requires students to spend on the material, as it constitutes an entire curriculum beyond the one provided by the school. Around the turn of the millennium, several coaches protested the USAD's decision to publish error-ridden \"Resource Guides\" rather than provide topics for students to research.\n\nAcademic Decathlon was founded in 1968 by Robert Peterson, the superintendent of schools in Orange County, California. Marvin Cobb, the executive director of the California Academic Decathlon in 2003, said after Peterson's death that Peterson intended the competition to encourage not only the highest-level students who already competed in academic competitions (\"[adding] a little glory,\" as President of the Orange County Academic Decathlon Association put it in 1970), but also to \"change C students' lives\". The inaugural competition, held in December 1968, hosted 103 students from 20 local high schools. At first only regional contests were held, organized by the Orange County Academic Decathlon Corporation (OCAD) with the assistance of the Orange County Department of Education. In 1971, when the grand jury recommended that the Orange County Department of Education should no longer play a part in the competition, full control was handed over to the OCAD.\n\nIn 1979, the first statewide competition was held, and just over two years later, the newly formed United States Academic Decathlon Association held the first national competition in April 1982 at Loyola Marymount University in California—200 high schools from 16 states and the District of Columbia competed for the chance to attend. Peterson, inspired by the 1984 Summer Olympics in Los Angeles, hoped to make Academic Decathlon an international event. At the 1984 Nationals, 32 states as well as Canada, Mexico, New Zealand and South Korea fielded teams. The inclusion of foreign countries did not become a regular occurrence, however. There was no more international participation until 1989, when teams from Northern Ireland and Rio de Janeiro competed. Since then, only a handful of international schools have competed.\n\nAfter a 1986 trial competition, Dr. Peterson founded a \"International Decathlon for Academics\" in 1990. Competitions were held in 1990, 1991 and 1992, but for a number of reasons the competition did not continue. In April 2009, USAD announced that it would be regularly hosting an online international competition, the International Academic Decathlon, after a successful trial event in 2008; however, all 2009 participants but Southbank opted out, leading USAD to issue Southbank an invitation to attend the 2009 U.S. National Competition instead.\n\nAcademic Decathlon was originally organized differently than the current competition. The original ten events were aesthetics (music and visual arts), conversation, essay writing, mathematics, practical arts, formal speech, physical science, social science, current events, extracurricular activities, and English literature, grammar, and reading. Over time, those events evolved into: economics, essay, fine arts, interview, language and literature, math, science, social sciences, speech and Super Quiz. It was not until 1998 that fine arts was split into its two constituent tests: art and music. Due to this division, the Super Quiz took the place of one of the other subjects each year. In 1998, Super Quiz replaced economics; from 1999 until 2012, it replaced either science or social science and alternated replacing the two from 2003 to 2012. Beginning with the 2013 season, the Super Quiz consisted of a relay portion only, encompassing questions from the respective year's Science, Language and Literature, Music, Social Science, Art, and Economics curriculum.\n\nMore than just the events were changed during the 1998–99 season—the style of study required of students changed. Prior to that season, students had performed their own research for each event, and test writers did not have to base their questions on material USAD published. However, after a policy change at the beginning of the 1999–2000 competition year, test writers were required to base the tests on official USAD materials. After the change in policy, scores vastly increased across the country. That year at Nationals, James E. Taylor High School had the highest team score yet seen at the competition. The following season, USAD once again altered their testing policies; 50% of test questions were to come from USAD published \"Resource Guides\" and 50% were to come from unspecified sources. Economics focused on business organizations and profiles in individual enterprise rather than macroeconomics and microeconomics as it had for the previous 19 years. A decrease in scores followed these changes; the national winner that year, El Camino Real High School, scored 5,923 fewer points than James E. Taylor High School had the previous year. The following year, USAD settled on an organization of test materials that it would use for almost a full decade, with a mixture of questions from the provided material and independent research. A number of curriculum changes were reversed.\n\nThough the events finally stabilized during the 2000–01 season, the USAD administration changed dramatically that year when the program's executive director, James Alvino, resigned. Alvino had written a religious article that had been included in that year's \"Super Quiz Resource Guide\". His critics and the USAD Board regarded the inclusion as a conflict of interest, as the material was a persuasive essay that heavily pushed Alvino's point of view. The season was also significant in that it was the first year that states were allowed to send both their large and small school champions to the national competition. (Small schools are currently classified as those schools with fewer than 650 students.) However, this practice was short-lived and was discontinued after the 2002 season. Instead, a small school e-Nationals was introduced during the 2005–06 school year. The medium school e-Nationals was established two years later for those schools with between 650 and 1,300 students. In 2010, California Academic Decathlon announced that a large school e-Nationals would be held for the second-highest performing school in each state.\n\nIn 2009, USAD announced the launch of an \"Online Middle School Pentathlon Program\", a competition similar to Academic Decathlon, with only essay, language and literature, mathematics, geography or social science, and science as events. Either science or social science would be designated as the Super Quiz topic.\n\nIn 2010, it was announced that high school students who don't have access to a school team or whose team has been eliminated in an earlier round can participate in an online individual competition.\n\nThe USAD requires a diversity of achievement within each team; teams must have students who fall into three categories determined by GPA. The Honors category is composed of students with GPAs between 3.75 and 4.0. The Scholastic category consists of students with GPAs between 3.0 and 3.74. The final group, the Varsity category, contains students whose GPA ranges from 0.00 to 2.99. USAD uses a modified GPA scale in which performance-based classes such as music, art or physical education are omitted from the GPA calculation. A grade counts for face value regardless of whether it is from an advanced placement, honors, regular or remedial class. An A is counted as a 4.0, a B as a 3.0, a C as a 2.0, a D as a 1.0, and a F as a 0. Only final grades taken from the previous two complete school years are used to calculate GPA.\n\nA team typically consists of nine competitors: three honors, three scholastic and three varsity. However, since only the top two scores from each category count towards the team's total score, a team can compete with as few as six students without any point deduction. Students may compete in a higher category than the one they are assigned to, but generally it is to the students' advantage to compete in the lowest category they can. Scores in Varsity are typically lower than those in Scholastic, and those in Scholastic are typically lower than those in Honors.\n\nThere are four official levels of competition: local/scrimmage, regional, state, and national (Rounds 1, 2, 3, and 4 respectively). With the exception of Round 1, only the top finishers in each round advance to the next level. California, the state with the largest Academic Decathlon, holds local scrimmages using the Round 1 tests, which are largely for practice and do not determine whether a team can compete at the regional level, which uses Round 2 tests. In the 2008–09 season, 43 states participated in statewide Academic Decathlons, though only 35 and an international school participated in the national competition.\n\nLike an athletic decathlon, the Academic Decathlon has ten events: art, economics, essay, interview, language and literature, math, music, science, social science, and speech. Prior to 2013, the Super Quiz replaced one of the seven objective events each year; from 2003-2012, it alternated between replacing science and social science. USAD releases the topics and theme of the following year's competition in early March, giving students time to prepare for a competition season that runs from November to April. The curriculum is developed by a ten-member panel of former USAD coaches known as the USAD Curriculum Advisory Group. The group contracts with \"curriculum developers\", who must have at least a bachelor's degree in their respective subject, to create the subject area outlines, \"Resource Guides\", and Notebook Dividers. The \"Super Quiz Resource Guide\" was formed mostly from articles from peer reviewed journals, but also includes non-peer reviewed articles, which are looked over by a panel of five reviewers and then checked for accuracy by another reviewer. Use of this format was continued for the Science packet in the 2012-2013 season.\n\nThe events are split up into two groups: the seven objective tests (art, economics, language and literature, math, music, science and social science) the three subjective events (essay, interview and speech). In addition, there is a SuperQuiz relay event. The former seven are given as half-hour multiple choice tests, whereas the latter three are graded by judges. The multiple choice exams consist of 50 questions each, with the exception of math, which has 35 questions. Beginning in the 2012-2013 season, the SuperQuiz written test was dropped and the oral relay was changed to include questions from six of the objective subjects: art, economics, language and literature, music, science, and social science.\n\nIn general, the objective events follow a set organizational outline from year to year. Language and literature focuses on a single novel or a set of plays in addition to multiple short literary selections which tend to be poems or excerpts from short stories. The art and music sections include several selections with which students must familiarize themselves in addition to historical information. Economics remains fairly static; 85% of the material focuses on a standard course of macroeconomics and microeconomics and the remaining 15% focuses on the year's topic. For example, in 2005 the themed material covered the economics of ancient Egypt and Rome. Science and social science reflect the season's theme. Unlike the other events, there is no basic information that carries over. The math curriculum has varied as well, occasionally dropping and adding new subjects or shifting the weight of particular subjects.\n\nThe format of the Super Quiz differs from that of the other subject areas. Added in 1969, it offers a culminating championship event. The Super Quiz consisted of a forty-question multiple choice test as well as a relay round until 2013. In 2013, the multiple-choice portion was eliminated and the relay portion expanded to include six of the objective subjects. Generally referred to as the Super Quiz Relay, it is the only event viewable by the general public. The relay starts with the Varsity students, followed by the Scholastic and the Honors students. Each group is given 10 or 15 questions, depending on the format decided by the state coordinator. These questions are read aloud to the audience and are printed or projected for the competitors. After the questions and answers are read, the students are allowed seven seconds to select the correct answer. The answer is checked on the spot by a judge and scores are immediately displayed to the audience.\n\nThe subjective events allow students more creativity than the objective events. The speech event is divided into prepared and impromptu sections. A three-and-a-half to four-minute long prepared speech is delivered. The student is then given one minute to read three prompts and deliver a one-and-a-half to two-minute impromptu speech. Example prompts have included: \"It has been said about our modern times that, 'Necessity is the mother of invention' Please discuss.\", \"Math has been described as the universal language. Discuss.\" and \"Why is light, light and dark, dark?\" In the interview, the students are asked a wide variety of questions in a formal environment. Questions range from: \"Who is your role model?\" to \"How would you alert someone that their zipper is down?\" In both the speech and interview, the competitor is not allowed to reveal his or her school or hometown to ensure neutrality by the judges. In the essay event, students are given 50 minutes to write an essay responding to one of three prompts derived from the language and literature or the Super Quiz curriculum.\n\nAs the competition has evolved, more of the events have been tied into a central theme. For example, the 2008–2009 theme was \"Latin America with a focus on Mexico\". Language and literature was based on six short selections of literature as well as the novel \"Bless Me, Ultima\" by Rudolfo Anaya. Art focused on the art of Mexico and featured several pieces of work, ranging from Olmec earthenware to José Guadalupe Posada's \"La Calavera Catrina\". The music event included questions on Latin American music and included works by musicians as varied as Manuel de Zumaya, Silvestre Revueltas, Ástor Piazzolla and Xavier Cugat. Social science and economics focused on the history and economy of Mexico respectively. The Super Quiz covered an introduction to evolutionary biology, the historical development of the theory of evolution, natural selection, speciation, mutation, gene flow, genetic drift, and evolutionary developmental biology. Information was also included on Charles Darwin's voyage on the HMS Beagle.\n\nThe United States Academic Decathlon publishes a variety of study materials for the objective events, the profits from which support the program. The \"Resource Guides\" and the \"Basic Guides\" constitute the majority of the USAD corpus. An art reproduction booklet and music CD contain a particular year's relevant pieces and are issued separately from the \"Resource Guides\". Study guides are also published and contain detailed topical outlines for each objective subject. These outlines specifically indicate which topics will require independent research beyond the material included in the \"Resource Guides\". USAD also offered \"Research Guides\" until 2010, which outlined the basics of what students ought to research. However, in the 2010–2011 competition season, USAD announced that it would be eliminating independent research-based questions from the competitions.\n\n\"Resource Guides\" are offered for the art, economics, language and literature, music, science/social science, and Super Quiz events. The \"Super Quiz Resource Guide\" is a compendium of previously published articles, whereas the other \"Resource Guides\" are composed by individual writers under contract with USAD. The aim of the \"Resource Guide\" is to assist students in their study of the topics listed in the subject area outlines. As an example, in 2003 the music topic was Romantic music. Subsequently the \"Music Resource Guide\" focused on the development of Romantic music, its characteristics and the influence of the Classical era on the Romantic era. A large part of the guide focused on information about that year's composers: Beethoven, Berlioz, Rossini, Chopin, Mendelssohn, Verdi, Mussorgsky, Wagner, Bizet, Brahms, Tchaikovsky, Mahler and Strauss. Similarly, the art topic assigned was Romantic art in the European tradition. The \"Art Resource Guide\" included sections detailing the lives and works of relevant artists such as Joseph Mallord William Turner, Claude Monet, Albert Bierstadt, and Camille Pissarro.\n\nIn the 1990s, various companies were established to research subjects and provide practice tests to teams. Two of the major ones were Acalon Cards and Exams and DemiDec, formed by former coach Dan Spetner and former Decathlete Daniel Berdichevsky, respectively. The two offer exams and study guides that can augment or replace USAD's official materials. USAD explicitly discouraged teams from ordering materials from third-party companies in the late 1998, though it later removed their discouragement from the curriculum page. USAD republished their discouragement just a few weeks after removing it, but did not publish such a warning in 2002.\n\nIn 2000, several coaches who had led their teams to Nationals during the 1990s resigned in protest over Academic Decathlon's decision to sell nearly $1,000 of study materials rather than simply providing topics for students to independently research. Teams felt obligated to buy the guides because USAD based the official tests on them. Teams also denounced the hundreds of errors they found in the official guides; coaches were sometimes forced to instruct their students to deliberately give the wrong answer in the official competition. Richard Golenko, coach of the 1996 J. Frank Dobie High School team that won the national competition, said that the decision to market guides shifted Academic Decathlon's emphasis to memorization over critical thinking. Coach Jim Hatem of Los Angeles and Coach Mark Johnson of El Camino's 1998 winning team fumed over esoteric \"trick\" questions that USAD had begun asking. James Alvino, USAD's executive director at that time, argued that the expensive study materials were necessary to continue funding nearly 75% of the program's $1,750,000 operating budget and to provide a fairer playing field for less wealthy schools, but did acknowledge that USAD would attempt to reduce prices, remove the more trivial questions, and base smaller portions of the tests on the official \"Resource Guide\".\n\n\"Basic Guides\" were formerly issued for students which, unlike the \"Resource Guides\", remained the same from year to year. The \"Art Basic Guide\" focuses on art fundamentals, such as the elements of art, principles of composition, and different 2-D and 3-D techniques. Additionally, a brief introduction to art history is included. The \"Economics Basic Guide\" reviews fundamental economic concepts in addition to the basics of macroeconomics and microeconomics. The \"Language and Literature Basic Guide\" provides students with a basic grounding in the analysis of literature and introduces key terms such as synecdoche, metonymy, assonance, and aphorism. The \"Math Basic Guide\" offers a general overview of major topics in high school math, including algebra, geometry, trigonometry, calculus, and statistics. The \"Music Basic Guide\" begins by introducing the student to topics in music theory such as harmonics, rhythm, tempo, and the circle of fifths. It also includes information on a wide variety of instruments and a brief history of Western music. However, beginning in the 2010–2011 competition season, the \"Basic Guides\" were incorporated into the year's \"Resource Guides\".\n\nThe National Association of Secondary School Principals (NASSP) has criticized the intense amount of studying required by students as \"excess fact-mongering\". In the 1980s, the Association did not endorse Academic Decathlon, citing what it believes was an excessive amount of time involved with the studying necessary to win. It stated that while it is not opposed to the academic portion of the competition, it disliked the \"national dimension\" of it. However, beginning in 2008, the Association placed USAD on their \"National Advisory List of Student Contests and Activities\". The list consists of programs that a NASSP committee believes meets their requisite quality standards.\n\nEach of the ten events is worth 1,000 points, for a possible 10,000-point individual total. Only the top two scores from the Honors, Scholastic and Varsity divisions are counted for the team score. Until 2013, 60,000 was the maximum possible team score. In 2013, Super Quiz became a 10,000 point event that only counts for the team score, making the maximum possible team score 70,000. With the exception of math and Super Quiz, the objective tests each have 50 questions worth 20 points a piece. The math test is weighted more heavily, with 35 questions worth approximately 28.6 points per question. Until 2013, the Super Quiz written test contained 40 questions, each worth 15 points. Depending on the state director, the relay component of Super Quiz contained either 5 or 10 questions, each worth 80 or 40 points respectively. Starting in 2013, the Super Quiz contained only the relay component with 5 or 10 questions, each worth approximately 333.3 or 166.7 questions respectively. The written test was sometimes omitted at the state level even before 2013 if a state director wished to weigh the Super Quiz Relay more heavily. Perfect scores of 1,000 in events are recorded regularly, and there have been cases of dozens of medal winners for a single event because of perfect and near-perfect scores. Gold, silver and bronze medals are awarded in each event and for each division (Honors, Scholastic, and Varsity). All tying participants are awarded medals.\n\nThe medals' design is the \"AD\" portion of the official USAD logo, encircled by \"United States\" at the top, \"Academic Decathlon\" at the bottom, and four stars of increasing size on either side. Though the medals are given out only to winners of the competitions, teams can order them along with other study materials. The medals given at state and local competitions are of a different design than those given at Nationals.\n\nThe interview and speech events are graded by two to three judges. The scores from the judges are averaged to give a maximum of 1,000 points per event. The essay is graded with a rubric and is read by two different judges whose scores are then averaged. If the difference between the judges' scores differs by 200 points or more, then a third reader is asked to grade the student's essay. The two scores that are closest in value are averaged to give the final score.\n\nA benchmark for the Decathlon elite is obtaining an individual score of over 9,000 points. It was not until 1992, 24 years after the program's inception, that Tyson Rogers achieved this feat at the national competition. Since then, numerous students have broken the 9,000 point barrier. The current highest individual score is 9,650, achieved by Maya Teitz from El Camino Real Charter High School at the 2018 California state regionals competition. State champion scores vary greatly from year to year. As an example, for the 2002–03 season, scores ranged from 24,785 to 49,910 points. National champion scores have been as low as 45,857.0 points and as high as 54,195.1 points. The 54,195.1 score produced by the 2016 Granada Hills Charter High School team at the National Championship stands as the record for the highest team score.\n\nThree days before the 1995 Illinois state competition, Steinmetz High School obtained copies of the tests from the DeVry Institute of Technology, where the state finals were being held. The team was therefore able to look up and memorize the answers. The cheating allowed Steinmetz to beat perennial powerhouse Whitney Young Magnet High School, who had won the Illinois state finals in 22 of the previous 23 years. Six of the twelve students in the nation who scored over 900 points on the math test came from Steinmetz High School, prompting the Illinois state Academic Decathlon to suspect cheating. The Steinmetz team was disqualified after team members refused to take an alternate version of the test, and its coach eventually resigned. The incident was dramatized in the movie \"Cheaters\".\n\nCatholic Memorial High School coach John Burke was at the center of a dispute over the results of the 2003 Wisconsin state final. Confusion arose over a Catholic Memorial student's essay after the results of the competition were released. The essay had only received 390 points out of a possible 1000, and Burke contended that it had been scored improperly. He was well within his rights to contest the score; however, Gerhard Fischer, President of Wisconsin Academic Decathlon, said that the way Burke handled the appeal was \"highly questionable\" and inflammatory. Though Burke was reprimanded, parents of Catholic Memorial students believed the punishment, a three-year suspension for Burke and a one-year suspension for Catholic Memorial, was due to personality differences between Burke and Wisconsin Academic Decathlon officials. The controversy eventually led to a more thorough investigation of previous issues involving Burke. The Wisconsin Academic Decathlon Board discovered that Burke had previously been accused of \"[m]ore than a year of repeated 'attacks' on another school's pupils, including allegations of cheating on tests and ineligibility.\"\n\nThe National Championship pits the winning school from each state against all the others for an overall title. Occasionally, a number of international schools compete as well. Schools compete based on size and are divided into three divisions (I, II, and III). However, this separation is limited to overall team score and overall individual score. Nine overall team medals are awarded: gold, silver and bronze for each division. Similarly, 27 overall individual medals are awarded: gold, silver and bronze for Honors, Scholastic and Varsity in each division. The top prepared speeches are honored at the Speech Showcase, while the rest of the medals—for example, gold in art for Honors, or silver in math for Varsity—are awarded to the top scoring persons during the awards banquet regardless of division. Other awards given out include the Kristin Caperton Award for overcoming personal or physical challenges, among others. Certain awards occasionally come with monetary prizes; these often vary from year to year. Since the first national event in 1982, all National Championship winners have come from three states: California, Texas and Wisconsin. As of 2017, Granada Hills Charter High School has won six national titles in the past seven years.\n\nIn 2006, the small school virtual competition was created for schools with 650 or fewer students. Two years later, the medium school virtual competition was added to accommodate schools with a student population between 650 and 1,300. These two separate contests are held via the Internet and, as such, the interview and speech events are excluded. The remaining eight tests are completed on the computer and results are submitted electronically to USAD for scoring. Because only the seven multiple choice tests and essay are used, team scores are out of 48,000 points instead of 60,000. Although it is only a virtual competition, winning schools are awarded trophies and medals for their efforts. University High School, from Fresno, California, has won 6 of 7 Small School National Championships. Coached by Sean Canfield, the team has won both the California and National Small School titles for the past 6 years. UHS has a current enrollment of 465 students, yet placed 8th overall at the 2013 California State, competing against schools several times its size. According to USAD, the goal of the small and medium school competitions is to \"enhance learning, growth and recognition\". In 2010, the United States Academic Decathlon announced the beginning of a large school e-Nationals for the second-highest performing large school in each state.\n\nA depiction of the Academic Decathlon event is featured in the 2017 film \"\".\n\n"}
{"id": "40001892", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40001892", "title": "West African Insurance Institute", "text": "West African Insurance Institute\n\nWest African Insurance Institute is a sub regional insurance education centre in Banjul, The Gambia. The institute trains and certifies insurers from West Africa and offers them certificates. It was established in 1973.\n"}
{"id": "1367384", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1367384", "title": "William Pereira", "text": "William Pereira\n\nWilliam Leonard Pereira (April 25, 1909 – November 13, 1985) was an American architect from Chicago, Illinois, of Portuguese ancestry who was noted for his futuristic designs of landmark buildings such as the Transamerica Pyramid in San Francisco. Remarkably prolific, he worked out of Los Angeles, and was known for his love of science fiction and expensive cars, but mostly for his unmistakable style of architecture, which helped define the look of mid-20th century America.\n\nBorn in Chicago, Illinois, Pereira graduated from the School of Architecture, University of Illinois and began his career in his home city. He had some of his earliest architectural experience helping to draft the master plan for the 1933 \"A Century of Progress\" Chicago World's Fair. With his brother, Hal Pereira, he designed the Esquire Theater at 58 East Oak Street, considered one of Chicago's best examples of Art Deco style. \n\nHe had two wives, former model and actress Margaret McConnell (married June 24, 1934) and Bronya Galef; the latter marriage ending with his death. He has two children, William Pereira, Jr., and a daughter, Monica Pereira, a Spanish teacher.\n\nWilliam Pereira died of cancer at age 76 at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles. At his request, no funeral services were planned.\n\nIn the 1930s, he and Hal moved to Los Angeles. After working as a solo architect, Pereira was hired by the Motion Picture Relief Fund and designed the first buildings for the Motion Picture Country House in Woodland Hills, California, which was dedicated September 27, 1942.\n\nPereira also had a brief stint as a Hollywood art director. He shared an Academy Award for Best Special Effects for the action/adventure film \"Reap the Wild Wind\" (1942). He was the art director for \"This Gun for Hire\", Alan Ladd's first film. He was production designer of the drama \"Jane Eyre\" (1943), and of the war drama \"Since You Went Away\" (1944) . Pereira was also the producer of the noir crime/drama \"Johnny Angel\" (1945), and of the Joan Fontaine drama \"From This Day Forward\" (1946).\n\nThough his buildings were often quite stark and sterile in their appearance (owing largely to the science fiction of the era), they were noted for their functional style with a certain flair that made them unmistakable. He took pride in the concept of designing for the future.\n\nIn 1949, Pereira became a professor of architecture at the University of Southern California. He then formed a partnership with fellow architect and classmate, Charles Luckman, in the early 1950s. The firm, Pereira & Luckman, grew into one of the nation's busiest. The duo designed some of Los Angeles's most well-known buildings, including the famed \"Theme Building\" at Los Angeles International Airport (in collaboration with Paul Williams and Welton Becket).\nHe parted with Luckman in 1959. Afterward, he formed the third and final company of his career, \"William L. Pereira & Associates.\" In the 1960s and 1970s, he and his team completed over 250 projects, including drawing up the master plans for the Los Angeles International Airport expansion and developing the master plan for the 93,000 acre (376 km) city of Irvine, California, which put his photograph on the cover of \"Time Magazine\" in September 1963. He later worked with Ian McHarg on the plan for the new town of The Woodlands, Texas.\n\nPereira's buildings were easily identified by their unmistakable style, often taking unusual forms such as pyramids and ziggurats. They usually projected a grand presence, heavyset in appearance and often sitting atop \"pedestals\" that were themselves an integral part of the building. Many of his buildings were complemented by water features and some were almost entirely surrounded by water. The Los Angeles County Museum of Art, for instance, was a complex of three Googie-esque buildings rising up out of a lake and interconnected by a series of causeways and bridges.\n\nPereira designed the campus plans of the University of Southern California, the University of California, Irvine, and Pepperdine University.\n\nHis material of choice in creating his unique geometric forms was pre-cast concrete. Working in this medium, he could create his impressive facades by simply attaching them as panels on to the steel frame of the building.\n\nBy the time of his death, Pereira had over 400 projects to his name. Among the structures he designed throughout Southern California were CBS Television City, Fox Plaza, the Los Angeles County Art Museum, the Howard Johnson Hotel and Water Playground in Anaheim, and the Disneyland Hotel in Anaheim. He is also responsible for creating the monumental Spanish-inspired facades that defined Robinson's department stores for nearly 20 years, and he was the architect of Pepperdine University at Malibu, named by the \"Princeton Review\" as the most beautiful college campus in America. Out of his immense body of work, three have really stood out in the public mind: the master-planned cities of Irvine and Newport Beach, and the Transamerica Pyramid in San Francisco.\n\nHis most praised and criticized work was probably the Transamerica building, which was completed in 1972. It was first panned as an intrusion on the city's skyline, but has been accepted as having more character than the buildings around it and as being an oddly creative city symbol.\n\nPerhaps his greatest lasting legacy besides his buildings are the numerous respected architects of today who came out of both Pereira's firm and the classes he taught at USC, including Gin Wong, William Blurock, and Frank Gehry. Pereira's firm was taken over upon his death by his two primary cohorts, Scott Johnson and Bill Fain.\n\n"}
{"id": "30254778", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30254778", "title": "Young-ja Lee", "text": "Young-ja Lee\n\nYoung-ja Lee (born 4 June 1931) is a South Korean music educator and composer. She is considered the most important Korean woman composer of our time.\n\nBorn in Wonju, she studied at Ewha Womans University, the Conservatoire de Paris, and the Royal Conservatory of Brussels. She continued her education at the Manhattan School of Music. Lee endured hardships during the Japanese occupation and Korean War, but emerged to become one of the dominant forces in Korean music in the 20th century.\n\nShe was one of the six founding members of the Korean Society of Women Composers and served as the first president for the organization. She is often called the \"Face and Mother of Korean Modern Music.\" Her works have been performed internationally and are available as recordings.\n\nYoung-Ja Lee's music combines elements from French, West African, Indonesian gamelan, and traditional Korean music, creating unusual intercultural compositions. She is also noted for her particular mixtures of Western and Korean music.\n\nSelected works include:\n"}
{"id": "928636", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=928636", "title": "Zeno (programming language)", "text": "Zeno (programming language)\n\nZeno (after pre-Socratic Greek philosopher Zeno of Elea) is an imperative procedural programming language designed to be easy to learn and user friendly. Zeno is generic in the sense that it contains most of the essential elements used in other languages to develop real applications.\n\nThe Zeno Interpreter was designed for use in Windows 95 and later Microsoft operating systems. The interpreter comes with built-in debugging tools, a source code text editor, and an on-line language reference. \n\nZeno was created by Stephen R. Schmitt and is maintained by Abecedarical Systems.\n\n const N : int := 5000\nSample output\n\n"}
