{"id": "106139", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=106139", "title": "Alfred Schütz", "text": "Alfred Schütz\n\nAlfred Schutz (; born Alfred Schütz, ; 13 April 1899 – 20 May 1959) was an Austrian philosopher and social phenomenologist whose work bridged sociological and phenomenological traditions. Schutz is gradually being recognized as one of the twentieth century's leading philosophers of social science. He related Edmund Husserl's work to the social sciences, and influenced Max Weber's legacy of philosophical foundations for sociology and economics through Schutz's major work, \"Phenomenology of the Social World\".\n\nSchutz was born in Vienna, Austria, into an upper-middle-class Jewish family as an only child. Following his graduation from high school he was drafted into the Austrian army, where he quickly rose to the American equivalent rank of second lieutenant. His army regiment was dispatched to fight in a series of heavy battles on the Italian front (WWI).\n\nSchutz enrolled at the University of Vienna from where he received his law degree. During his time at the University of Vienna he also enrolled at the Viennese Academy of International Trade from 1919 to 1920 and adopted a concentration in International Law. During his time at the University of Vienna, Schutz went to lectures given by Max Weber, and felt that Weber had left the problem of meaning unanswered. As noted by Wagner (1983), Schutz's fascination with the problem of meaning was a result of his experience in combat, combined with returning to starving and economically decimated Vienna. In 1926 Schutz married Ilse Heim, after developing a well-established and prominent career in international banking. He became the chief financial officer for Reitler and Company, the Vienna banking firm. In 1933 the threat of Hitler's rise in Germany caused Schutz and other Viennese intellectuals to flee Austria in order to seek asylum in allied countries. Consequently, Schutz and his family relocated to Paris in 1938 in political exile. Schutz worked as an international lawyer for Reitler and Company, and moved to the United States in 1939, where he became a faculty member of The New School. He taught sociology and philosophy as well as serving as chair of the Philosophy department. Schutz is unique as a scholar of the social sciences in that he pursued a career in law for most of his life, while teaching part-time at the New School for Social Research in New York. Moreover, he produced key papers in phenomenological sociology that fill four volumes (published by Nijhoff, The Hague), while working full-time at the bank. Schutz received a substantial amount of assistance from his wife Ilse, who transcribed his working notes and letters from his taped dictations. Schutz died in New York City at the age of 60.\n\nWhile Schutz primarily focused on phenomenology and social science methodology his principal aim was to create a philosophical foundation for the social sciences. Schutz was strongly influenced by Ludwig von Mises, Henri Bergson, William James, and Edmund Husserl. Contrary to common belief, while Schutz's work paralleled George Herbert Mead’s analysis of the meanings within social interactions, Schutz was highly critical of Mead’s behavioristic approach. Although Schutz was never a student of Husserl he and colleague Felix Kaufmann intensively studied Husserl's work in order to seek a basis for the interpretive sociology derived from Max Weber. In 1932 Schutz’s efforts resulted in his first published book, \"Der sinnhafte Aufbau der sozialen Welt\" (literally, \"the meaningful construction of the social world\") which was published in English as \"The Phenomenology of the Social World\". Schutz took up the generic emphasis of phenomenology, arguing that everyday life – other than philosophical or scientific theories – is most important for analysis. The publication brought him to the attention of Husserl, whom he visited often after the publication and corresponded with until Husserl's death (1938). Even so, when Husserl asked Schutz to be his assistant, he was unable to accept the offer at Freiburg University for personal reasons.\n\nSchutz's main concerns were with how people grasp the consciousness of others while they live within their own stream of consciousness. He talked much about intersubjectivity, but in a larger sense. He used it to mean a concern with the social world, specifically the social nature of knowledge. A great deal of his work deals with the \"life world\". Within this, people create social reality under the constraints of preexisting social and cultural factors and structures. He was very focused on the \"dialectical relationship between the way people construct social reality and the obdurate social and cultural reality that they inherit from those who preceded them in the social world\".\n\nSchutz's writings had a lasting impact on sociology, both on phenomenological approaches to sociology (especially through the work of Thomas Luckmann and Peter L. Berger) and in ethnomethodology through the writings of Harold Garfinkel. Luckmann was heavily influenced by Schutz's work. Luckmann, a student of Schutz's (along with Peter L. Berger), ultimately finished Schutz's work on the structures of the Lifeworld after Schutz died by filling out his unfinished notes. Berger and Luckmann went on to use Schutz's work to further understand human culture and reality, through the development of a new form of the sociology of knowledge. As noted by Farganis (2011), Peter Berger is arguably the best-known living sociologist influenced by Schutz, owing his creation of social construction theory which explains how the processes of externalization, objectification, and internalization contribute to the social construction of reality.\n\nPhenomenology originated with Edmund Husserl. Schutz met Husserl and studied his work. Phenomenology is the study of things as they appear (phenomena). It is also often said to be descriptive rather than explanatory: a central task of phenomenology is to provide a clear, undistorted description of the ways things appear\". There are many assumptions behind phenomenology that help explain its creation. First, it rejects the concept of objective research. Phenomenologists would rather group presumptions through a process called \"phenomenological epoche\". Second, phenomenology believes that analyzing the daily human behavior will provide one with a comprehensive understanding of nature. The third assumption is that persons, not individuals, should be explored and questioned. Sociologically speaking, this is in part because persons can be better understood by the unique ways they reflect and symbolize the society he or she lives in. Fourth, phenomenologists prefer to gather “capta,” or \"conscious experience\", rather than traditional data. Finally, phenomenology is considered to be oriented on discovery, and therefore phenomenologists gather research using methods that are far less restricting than in other sciences.\n\nSocial phenomenology is the combination of the social construction of reality and ethnomethodology. It was concerned with how people use ordinary, everyday interactions to produce a feeling of reality and intersubjectivity. Most of Schutz's work concerned the methods used for the construction of reality through everyday experiences.\n\nAs noted by Farganis (2011) phenomenological sociology is characterized as particularly subjective in nature because its emphasis of understanding reality through the perspective of the acting subject rather than through the lens of the scientific observer. Rather than attempting to uncover and document the social structures which influence our social world Schutz and other sociological phenomenologists seek not only to identify the content of our consciousness related to our conception of the social reality of everyday life but also, how this reality comes to assume the form it is. In essence, Schutz and social phenomenologists are principally concerned with the happenings of everyday life or what Schutz refers to as the ‘life world’. As noted by Ritzer (2011) the life world “is an intersubjective world in which people both create social reality and are constrained by the preexisting social and cultural structures created by their predecessors.\" Within this world, relationships between the social and natural world are what come into doubt. There is this existence of meaning which comes into play yet most people simply accept the world how it is and never second guess the concept or problem of meaning.[14] Schutz delves even more into specific relationships such as the difference between intimate face-to-face relationships and distant and impersonal relationships.\n\nSchutz's division of Husserl's \"Lebenswelt\" (the mundane lifeworld) into four distinct sub-worlds is perhaps his most influential theoretical contribution. The theory of the lifeworld is that social experience creates a world that is separated between social reality that has been directly experienced and social reality that is on the horizon of direct experience. The former consisted of the \"Umwelt\" of what Schutz termed consociates or fellow-men – of the man who \"shares with me a community of space and a community of time\".\n\nIn contrast, those who Schutz did not deem his fellow-men, he put them in three classes: the world of contemporaries (Mitwelt), the world of predecessors (Vorwelt). and the world of successors (Folgewelt). The last two represent the past and the future, whereas one's contemporaries share a community of time, if not space, and are different from the predecessors and successors because it is possible for them to become fellow-men or consociates.\n\nSchutz was interested in documenting the transition from direct to indirect experience and the series of experiences in between. He also wanted to map the progressive anonymisation of the contemporaries (\"Mitwelt)\", which was a measurement of increasing anonymity of \"my absent friend, his brother whom he has described to me, the professor whose books I have read, the postal clerk, the Canadian Parliament, abstract entities like Canada herself, the rules of English grammar, or the basic principles of jurisprudence\". Schutz argued that the more one goes into the contemporary world, the more anonymous the contemporary inhabitants become, with the most anonymous being artifacts of any kind that hold meaning, context, and suggest there are unknown people.\n\nIn his later writings, Schutz explored how everyday social experiences that pertain to these dimensions are most often intertwined in varying degrees of anonymity. For instance, \"if in a face-to-face relationship with a friend I discuss a magazine article dealing with the attitude of the President and Congress toward China, I am in a relationship not only with the perhaps anonymous contemporary writer of the article but also with the contemporary individual or collective actors on the social scene designated by the terms, 'President', 'Congress', 'China'\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22206295", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22206295", "title": "Alisol", "text": "Alisol\n\nAn Alisol is a Reference Soil Group of the World Reference Base for Soil Resources (WRB).\n\nAlisols have an \"argic horizon\", which has a high cation exchange capacity. In the subsoil, the base saturation is low.\n\nThere exist mixed forms, for example 'Stagnic Alisol', that are mainly Alisol, but also contain components that are found in Stagnosols.\n\nAlisols occur in tropical and humid subtropical climates, but are also found in temperate regions. Compared to Lixisols, Acrisols and Ferralsols, Alisols have much higher-activity clays and are likely to be found on younger terrains or more geologically active regions such as Kyushu and Chugoku.\n\nAlisols are acidic (increased by limited drainage) and therefore need liming, contain few nutrients and therefore need fertilizer, and do not have much surface coherence so are easily eroded.\n\nAluminium and manganese toxicity is a very serious problem in Alisols, because at the low pH of these soils such generally insoluble metals become soluble and can poison plants which are not tolerant of them. Encyclopædia Britannica mentions oil palm, cotton, and maize (corn) as crops suitable to be grown on Alisols, though most crops require very intensive fertilisation for long-term success.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8457216", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8457216", "title": "Anti-Romanian sentiment", "text": "Anti-Romanian sentiment\n\nAnti-Romanian sentiment or Romanophobia (, \"românofobie\") is hostility toward or prejudice against Romanians as an ethnic, linguistic, religious, or perceived racial group, and can range from individual hatred to institutionalized, violent persecution.\n\nAnti-Romanian discrimination and sentiment has been present in various degrees among the peoples and/or governments of countries bordering on Romania, either toward Romania itself or towards Romanian ethnic minorities residing in these countries. Similar patterns have existed toward other groups both in the region and elsewhere in the world, especially where political borders do not coincide with the patterns of ethnic population.\n\nTransylvania in the Middle Ages was organized according to the system of Estates, which were privileged groups (\"universitates\") with power and influence in socio-economic and political life, being nonetheless organized according to certain ethnic criteria as well. The first Estate was the lay and ecclesiastic aristocracy, ethnically heterogeneous, but undergoing a process of homogenization around its Hungarian nucleus. The other Estates were Saxons, Szeklers and Romanians (or Vlachs - \"Universitas Valachorum\"), all with an ethnic and ethno-linguistic basis (\"Universis nobilibus, Saxonibus, Syculis et Olachis\"). The general assembly (\"congregatio generalis\") of the four Estates had mainly supra-legislative powers in Transylvania, but it sometimes took measures regarding order in the country, relationships between the privileged, military issues, etc.\n\nThe turning point in the history of the Romanian population in Transylvania was in 1366, when through the Decree of Turda the king Louis I Anjou of Hungary redefined nobility in terms of membership in the Roman Catholic Church and, thus specifically excluding the Eastern Orthodox Romanians. The only possibility for Romanians to retain or access nobility was through conversion to Roman Catholicism. Some Orthodox Romanian nobles converted, being integrated in the Hungarian nobility, but the most of them declined, thus losing their status and privileges. \n\nAs a result, gradually, after 1366 Romanians lost their status as an Estate and were excluded from Transylvania's assemblies. This meant that the Romanian population of Transylvania was never directly represented in the Transylvanian Diet, which consisted of Hungarian nobles, German and Székely nobles (the Unio Trium Nationum). Moreover, in Medieval times, the Romanians were not allowed to reside within the walls of such Transylvanian cities as Sibiu (\"Nagyszeben\"/\"Hermannstadt\"), Braşov (\"Brassó\"/\"Kronstadt\") or Cluj (\"Kolozsvár\"/\"Klausenburg\"). This led to extensive persecution against the under-represented Romanians. For example, in the 16th century, Transylvanian laws of justice separated the rights of Hungarians, Saxons and Szeklers from the rights of the Romanians.\n\nAs a consequence, Romanian peasants would sometimes revolt and demand better treatment. These revolts, such as the 1784 Romanian peasant uprising, were ruthlessly suppressed as Joseph II, Holy Roman Emperor after learning the escalated situation ordered the army to intervene. Horea and Cloșca were caught by Romanians in their subterfuge and handled them to Paul Kray general. Horea and Cloșca were executed by breaking on the wheel. This method of execution consisted of the victim being laid on the ground whilst the executioner would break the prisoner’s bones with a spiked wheel. Other peasants would be forced to watch the executions in order to frighten them from attempting future uprisings. Crișan committed suicide in the prison.\n\nIn 1918, after the First World War, the union of Transylvania with Romania was declared at Alba Iulia by an assembly of the delegates of ethnic Romanians in Transylvania. Following the Treaty of Trianon, eventually Transylvania became part of Romania.\n\nBulgaria and Romania are neighbors, however, both two countries have been in conflicts in the past, especially over the Dobruja region. In the 1st millennium AD, Bulgaria owned the territory of modern-day Romania. For many Bulgarians, at that time, Romanians were considered as being just Bulgarians, who spoke Bulgarian and belonged to the Bulgarian Orthodox Church, a fact denied by the Romanians. It remained controversial even until the Ottoman Empire's arrival to the Balkans.\n\nAfter 1878, when Romania became independent, the two countries tried to resolve the conflict until the Second Balkan War, when Romania attacked Bulgaria and took Tutrakan from the country, causing anti-Romanian sentiment to raise to higher levels. During World War I, Bulgaria joined the Central Powers and occupied Bucharest and Dobruja including the now retaken Tutrakan, which is still a part of Bulgaria today. After the end of the war, however, relations cooled down. In 1940, by the Treaty of Craiova Dobruja was divided between them with Bulgaria getting the Southern part and Romania getting the Northern part. After, in World War 2, the two countries were allies. After the establishment of the Eastern Bloc, both countries became socialist republics, which furthered the friendship. The two countries currently have strong ties and have a very special relationship (both joined the EU in 2007), considering their opposed linguistic and cultural backgrounds.\n\nAlthough the 1940 issue was reaffirmed later in 1947 by the Paris Peace Treaties, today, most Romanians and Bulgarians get along with each other, but Romania is still being held at a negatively by certain groups, which still believe the whole of Romania belongs to them or at least all the Dobruja region.\n\nBessarabia became a part of the Russian Empire according to the 1812 Treaty of Bucharest. A period of autonomy followed, after which all Romanian government institutions, schools and presses were closed and replaced by a Russian-style provincial administration in 1828. At the end of the 19th century and the beginning of the 20th century, Bessarabia saw an intense process of Russification. Military service also became a new instrument of Russification. The process of Russification and colonization of this territory started to be carried out by representatives of other ethnic groups of the Russian Empire, including Jews, Germans, Bulgarians, Gagauz, and Ukrainians.\n\nWhen the Russian Empire collapsed after the Russian Revolution of 1917, a local body called “Sfatul Ţării” (\"Council of the Country\") was created in Bessarabia. Moldova became an independent republic on December 2, 1917. Given that Soviet raids already menaced the newly formed authority, the local body (\"Sfatul Ţării\") called in support troops from the Kingdom of Romania. The troops entered Bessarabia on December 13. On March 27, 1918, the local body (Sfatul Ţării) voted to unite with Romania. Subsequently, the Soviet Union refused to recognize the union, and supported an intense propaganda stating that the Kingdom of Romania was an imperialistic multi-ethnic state.\n\nBessarabia was a part of Romania until 1940 when the USSR re-annexed the territory as well as Northern Bukovina.\n\nThe convention of October 28, 1920, whereby the British Empire, France, Italy, and Japan recognized Romanian sovereignty in Bessarabia, was rejected as invalid by the USSR. Moscow even denied the validity of that part of the convention that stipulated that, upon Russian request, the Council of the League of Nations could be empowered to arbitrate the Russo-Romanian dispute over Bessarabia. In short, the Kremlin insisted that Romania was illegally occupying Bessarabia. Moscow also encouraged revolutionary activities by Bolshevik elements in Bessarabia.\n\nThe exact position of the USSR on these issues is unknown except for Moscow's unwillingness to make any concessions to Bucharest on Bessarabian issues. Recent tracts by Romanian historians have emphasized the support given by Romanian Communists to the \"democratic forces\" opposed to alteration of the status quo in Transylvania in 1938 and subsequent years. True as this may be, there has been no evidence presented in support of any fundamental change in Moscow's positions with respect to Bessarabia in 1938 and subsequent years.\n\nAccording to official NKVD documents, over 15,000 Romanians from Northern Bukovina were deported to Siberia in 1940 alone. The Soviet action culminated with the Fântâna Albă massacre when 2,500 to 3,000 Romanian refugees who were attempting to leave Northern Bukovina for Romania were blocked by the USSR Border Troops and about 200 of them were shot, at a place called \"Fântâna Albă\" (\"White Fountain\" in Romanian). This policy resulted in a substantial shrinkage of the Romanian population in the province. By 1941, out of 250,000 Romanians in Northern Bukovina, only 192,000 were left.\n\nThe territory of the Moldavian SSR was composed of Bessarabia (except for Southern Bessarabia, assigned to Ukraine) and a part of the territory of the former Moldavian Autonomous Soviet Socialist Republic (Transnistria), founded in 1924 within the territory of Ukraine. In the document confirming the establishment of the Moldavian Autonomous Soviet Socialist Republic (MASSR) of 12 October 1924 the West frontier of the republic was traced out not along the Dniester River but the Prut River. In the MASSR the ideology of a separate Moldovan identity was pursued, including the introduction of Moldovan language, distinct from Romanian. The Cyrillic alphabet and abundant Russisms were introduced.\n\nAnother historical event which contributed to the future implementation of the anti-Romanian feelings was Romania’s behaviour in World War II, when the Romanian regime allied itself with Nazi Germany.\n\nIn Bessarabia, the Soviet government pursued a policy of assimilation of the native Romanian population. First, the province was divided into a \"Moldovan\" Socialist Republic and a southern region known as Budjak, which was renamed Izmail Oblast and attached to the Ukrainian SSR. Elite elements of the Romanian population were then deported to Siberia much like their Bukovinian counterparts. Russian and Ukrainian settlers were used to fill the vacant areas caused by the deportation of Romanians.\n\nIn 1946-1947, as a result of the famine organised in the MSSR (according to some data of certain scientists; official data has not yet been published), around 300,000 died and many cases of cannibalism occurred. In addition, the population of the former MASSR, as a part of the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, also suffered from the artificial famine in the 1930s when several million people died in Ukraine (\"see also Holodomor\").\n\nThe territory of Transnistria was more industrialised in comparison with the other part of Moldova and the industrialisation process of Transnistria was accompanied by a population flow from other areas of the USSR, especially from Russia. Although in the Republic of Moldova the level of population density was the highest one in the USSR, Moscow continued to stimulate the arrival of labour force from outside, including that with a poor qualification. Even Igor Smirnov himself, current leader of the separatist regime of Transnistria, was sent in 1987 from Russia to Bender to be the director of an enterprise. This process was also amplified by the excessive militarization of the area.\n\nThe 1989 adoption of the Law on state language (official language) and Law on functioning of languages on the territory of the MSSR generated an extremely negative reaction in the industrial centres of Transnistria, where the largely Russian-speaking population was not being consulted, and felt threatened by the prospects of Romanianization. These laws proclaimed the Moldovan (Romanian) language, written in the Latin alphabet, as the only state language. The fact that Moldovan and Romanian are identical was recognised. Although a majority of the Transnistrian population never read these laws which served as a reason for the conflict's outburst, they feared that by the application of the new linguistic legislation, Russian language speakers would become second-class citizens. At the industrial enterprises, including those of the military-industrial complex of the USSR, strikes occurred protesting against granting official language status to the Moldavian (Romanian) language.\n\nAfter the breakup of the USSR, various legislative reforms consolidated the position of ethnic Romanians/Moldovans, especially by establishing the Moldovan language as the official language. The 2001 parliamentary elections, won by the Party of Communists of the Republic of Moldova, initially brought a series of attempts to raise Russian to the status of a state language. However, the project was dropped by popular opposition.\n\nRelations between the Moldovan and Romanian governments have initially included some tension as the Moldovan government led by President Vladimir Voronin accused Romania of \"imperialism\". Nevertheless, in the recent past relations have improved and President Voronin as well as Romanian President Traian Băsescu have called for cooperation between the two sovereign states.\n\nIn 2006, the Gheorghe Asachi Romanian-French School was forced by the government to change its name to the Gheorghe Asachi Moldovan-French School. Critics argued that the government acted unilaterally and discriminated against Romanians, as other schools such as the Necui-Leviţki Russian-Ukrainian School were allowed to continue using that name. In protest, four high school students from Asachi replaced the new high school sign with another with the old name. They were charged with \"group-committed aggravated hooliganism\".\n\nIn Transnistria, the situation is considered to be far worse than the rest of Moldova. After the 1992 war, the Romanian population was substantially persecuted, causing at least 5,000 to 10,000 Romanians to flee the region. Although the number of Romanians in Transnistria is significant, Romanian is almost never used in public.\n\nRomanian schools comprise about 11% of the total schools in Transnistria. Most of the schools are forced to teach in the Cyrillic script and use outdated, 40-year-old, communist-era books, and 6 schools are permitted to teach in Romanian using the Latin script; however, pressure is often put on the institutions to close. The 2004 school crisis is a prime example of this, when the pro-Russian government in Tiraspol forcefully attempted to close down 2 of the schools. In the orphanage of Tighina, Romanian children returning from vacations found the orphanage locked by police. After spending a night outdoors, they forced their way into the building and had to stay there without water and electricity for a few months, until pressure from the Moldovan and Romanian governments and from the Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe (OSCE) made the conflict get resolved. Numerous Romanian parents were arrested or fired from their jobs for their political views and their determination to keep their children in Romanian-language schools.\n\nCitizens who express pro-Romanian or pro-Moldovan attitudes are likewise persecuted in Transnistria. The Ilie Ilaşcu group is the most commonly known and well-documented of organisation.\n\nNorthern Bukovina, as well as the Tiachiv and Rakhiv raions (districts) of Zakarpattia Oblast (Transcarpathia), are the regions in Ukraine with considerable Romanian minorities, according to the 2001 Ukrainian Census.\n\nThe Ukrainian Census of 2001 was criticized by Dr. Ion Popescu, leader of the National Council of the Interregional Union of the Romanian Community in Ukraine and also one of the authors of the Constitution of Ukraine, who claims that the very existence of the classification of Moldovans as a separate ethnic group in census results is a \"continuation of the Stalinist and Soviet policies of artificially dividing Romanians into Romanians and Moldovans\". However, the response to the census question about the ethnicity had to be written in into the census form rather than picked from a pre-determined set of choices and the census respondents were free to claim their ethnicity as they wished not to respond to this or any other particular census question or not answer any questions at all; besides, no allegation of counting fraud were ever brought up. It is therefore unclear if Dr. Popescu criticizes the way in which the census was conducted or the way in which data was processed.\n\nThe number of Romanian students at Chernivtsi University declined sharply in Soviet times. In 1991-92, the last year of Soviet rule, the number of Romanian students was only 4.44% (434 out of 9,769) . Among teaching faculty, under-representation of Romanians is also evident. The breakdown by nationalities (in the same year) reveals: Ukrainian teachers 465 (77.1%), Russians 102 (16.9%), Moldovans 9 (1.4%), Romanians 7 (1.1%), Belorussians 6 (0.9%), etc. Even after Ukrainian independence, the number of Romanian students at the University continued to decline, to only 3.9% in 1992-93, which is much less than the overall percentage of Romanians in the region's general population. Since 1997, arrangements have been made for some students to study at universities in Romania . In 2001 the Christian-Democratic Alliance of the Romanians from Ukraine reported that Romanians in Chernivtsi lack an opportunity to study at the university level in their native language.\n\nHowever, it should be noted that according to the Ukrainian Constitution adopted after its 1991 independence, Ukrainian is the only state language in the country, and the state higher education system was switched to Ukrainian, according to the common practice in many countries worldwide and this practice was not directed specifically at the Romanian population. For example, the majority of Ukrainian universities do not provide education in Russian either, despite the fact that Russian is the native language of a much more considerable part of the population in Ukraine.\n\nAt the same time, there are schools teaching Romanian as a primary language, as well as newspapers, TV, and radio broadcasting in Romanian , , . Future teachers for Romanian schools are trained in at the Chernivtsi University in the fields of Romanian philology, mathematics and physics . Romanian organizations still complain that despite this, 19 villages inhabited by Romanians have been deprived of schooling in their native language, therefore creating a worse situation than that which existed under the repressive Soviet regime .\n\nThe Romanians living in the Autonomous Province of Vojvodina are very well represented at the provincial level despite their small presence (about 30,000 people, 1.5% of the province's population of around 2 million), and Romanian is one of the six official languages of the province. However, their counterparts in Eastern Central Serbia (mostly in the Timok Valley and Branicevo), known as Vlachs and outnumbering the Vojvodinian Romanians, have not had any privileges. As example from Negotin in Vrsac, the Romanian local television station door was vandalized with the inscription \"Out Romanians, Serbia!!!\" (Serbian: \"Napolje Rumuni, Srbija!!!\").\n\nThe Timok Vlachs speak the same dialect (Daco-Romanian) as is spoken to the north, in Romania. However, the Serbian authorities have pursued a policy of de-nationalization as they have slowly changed the term \"Romanian\" into \"Vlach\" through the years.\n\nThese people declare themselves on census forms as ethnic Vlachs and their number is about 40,000. Nevertheless, older Serbian censuses counted up to 200,000 Romanians (Vlachs) in present-day Central Serbia (the 1895-census counted 159,510 Romanians, the 1921-census counted 150,098 Romanians, the 1953-census counted 198,793 Vlach (Romanian) - speakers).\n\nSince 2004 they are regular clashes between the Serbian authorities and the Romanian community in Timok when Bojan Aleksandrovic, a Romanian Orthodox priest decided to build a small church where he would hold services in Romanian. The priest has been subjected to threats while children attending mass with their parents have been humiliated in the village school by their Serbian teacher. Romanians in Serbia proper do not have the right to schooling and public worship in their native language.\n\nIn the town of Negotin, the Romanian Cultural Association was vandalized in 2004 when Serbian pro-fascist ultra-nationalists wrote \"Out of Serbia\" on the windows of the main doors.\n\nIn 2013 accusations of discrimination in Covasna surfaced against Hungarian students and teachers. During a ceremony for the national day of Hungary, some Romanian students wearing the Romanian flag were physically assaulted by older students, and threatened by teachers with punishment for wearing the national symbol. As a result, the Romanian human rights organisation ActiveWatch issued a statement condemning the actions of the school's administration, which it considers a blunt infringement of human rights and freedom of expression.\n\nIn 2009, a right-wing political party (Swiss People's Party (SVP)) had run an anti-immigration campaign, against Romanians and Bulgarians, distributing and displaying banners depicting citizens of these countries as \"crows\".\n\nAnti-Romanian sentiment in the European Union refers to the discrimination of Romanian citizens within the European Union. As a member of the E.U., Romanian citizens have faced ethnic profiling in various European countries and open discrimination in countries like Italy or Austria.\n\nIn June 2009, having had their windows broken and deaths threats made against them, twenty Romanian families were forced from their homes in Lisburn Road, Belfast, in Northern Ireland. Up to 115 people, including women and children, were forced to seek refuge in a local church hall after being attacked. They were later moved by the authorities to a safer location. An anti-racist rally in the city on 15 June was attacked by youths chanting neo-Nazi slogans.\n\nFollowing the arrest of three local youths in relation to the attacks, the church where the Romanians had been given shelter was badly vandalised. Using 'emergency funds', Northern Ireland authorities assisted most of the victims to return to Romania.\n\nBased on growing dissatisfaction with the European Union, several British politicians have posed a stance against the free movement of Romanians (and Bulgarians) within the E.U. and subsequently in the United Kingdom. As a result, multiple British newspapers have started publishing discriminatory articles about Romanian citizens, thus inciting an anti-Romanian sentiment; mainly against the Roma minority.\n\nIn 2013, Romanian ambassador Ion Jinga stated that a part of the British media launched a series of negative articles concerning Romanians, with reference to their “invasion” to the United Kingdom, criminality, social benefits abuse, and accusing Romania of involvement in the meat adulteration scandal. Ambassador Jinga responded to these allegations through a series of interviews and articles in British newspapers, radio and television, presenting his views on the professional value of Romanians and their significant contribution to the UK economy. He also blamed the United Kingdom Independence Party for inciting anti-Romanian prejudice and violent attacks.\n\nIn 2013, the Daily Express newspaper launched a 'Crusade' against new European Union migrants from Bulgaria and Romania. The frontpage on Thursday 31 October declared 'Britain is full and fed up. Today join your Daily Express Crusade to stop new flood of Romanian and Bulgarian migrants'. UKIP leader Nigel Farage declared that he had signed the petition, and urged other to do the same. Romanian politician Cătălin Ivan expressed 'outrage' at the campaign.\n\nIn 2013 a prominent German newspaper, Der Spiegel, has published a short video displaying Roma-Romanians living in the city of Duisburg. The video shows a small number of Roma-Romanians and uncensored under-aged children living in a ghetto-like part of the city, without access to proper public services and living in poor housing conditions. Although there is no proof that the Romanian citizens were unemployed, the video claims they are a burden on the local welfare system. The discriminatory aspect of this video is visible through the fact that a number of German citizens are shown living in the same conditions; yet blaming the foreign citizens. This further increases the anti-Romanian sentiment, in a country where the majority of Romanian (and Bulgarian) citizens are well integrated.\n\nHistorically, France had cultivated a close relationship with the Romanian Principalities being a strong supporter of their independence and unification in 1859 and ultimately of Greater Romania in 1918. Many of the prominent Romanian scientists and artists like Henry Coanda and Constantin Brancusi had studied and worked in Paris and Bucharest was nicknamed Le Petit Paris for its cosmopolitan atmosphere. Furthermore, the Romanian flag bears homage to the ideals of the French Revolution and has been interpreted as Liberty (blue) Justice (yellow) Fraternity (Red). \nFollowing the deportation of Roma-Romanian citizens from France, and numerous discriminatory articles in the French media, a small protest occurred in front of the French embassy in Bucharest, against the discrimination against Romanians in France.\n\nA Dutch right wing political party (Wilders’ Freedom party (PVV)), launched a website aimed at gathering denunciations against Polish, Romanian and Bulgarian nationals living in the Netherlands. Denunciations consist of competition on the job market, and others, with the slogan: “Are they causing you problems? Or did you lose your job to a Pole, Bulgarian, Romanian or other Central or East European? We would love to hear from you,”; thus inciting social tension between European Citizens exercising their treaty right of freedom of movement and the local population. The Netherlands is one of the main countries blocking Romania and Bulgaria from joining the Schengen Agreement; as well as one of the countries with growing populism.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6226648", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6226648", "title": "Brain stimulation reward", "text": "Brain stimulation reward\n\nBrain stimulation reward (BSR) is a pleasurable phenomenon elicited via direct stimulation of specific brain regions, originally discovered by James Olds and Peter Milner. BSR can serve as a robust operant reinforcer. Targeted stimulation activates the reward system circuitry and establishes response habits similar to those established by natural rewards, such as food and sex. Experiments on BSR soon demonstrated that stimulation of the lateral hypothalamus, along with other regions of the brain associated with natural reward, was both rewarding as well as motivation-inducing. Electrical brain stimulation and intracranial drug injections produce robust reward sensation due to a relatively direct activation of the reward circuitry. This activation is considered to be more direct than rewards produced by natural stimuli, as those signals generally travel through the more indirect peripheral nerves. BSR has been found in all vertebrates tested, including humans, and it has provided a useful tool for understanding how natural rewards are processed by specific brain regions and circuits, as well the neurotransmission associated with the reward system.\n\nIntracranial self-stimulation (ICSS) is the operant conditioning method used to produce BSR in an experimental setting. ICSS typically involves subjects with permanent electrode implants in one of several regions of the brain known to produce BSR when stimulated. Subjects are trained to continuously respond for electrical stimulation of that brain region, which produces BSR. ICSS studies have been particularly useful for examining the effects of various pharmacological manipulations on reward sensitivity. ICSS has been utilized as a means to gauge addiction liability for drugs of many classes, including those which act on monoaminergic, opioid, and cholinergic neurotransmission. These data correlate well with findings from self-administration studies on the addictive properties of drugs.\n\nIn 1953, James Olds and Peter Milner, of McGill University, observed that rats preferred to return to the region of the test apparatus where they received direct electrical stimulation to the septal area of the brain. From this demonstration, Olds and Milner inferred that the stimulation was rewarding, and through subsequent experiments, they confirmed that they could train rats to execute novel behaviors, such as lever pressing, in order to receive short pulse trains of brain stimulation. Olds and Milner discovered the reward mechanisms in the brain involved in positive reinforcement, and their experiments led to the conclusion that electrical stimulation could serve as an operant reinforcer. According to B.F. Skinner, operant reinforcement occurs when a behavior is followed by the presentation of a stimulus, and it is considered essential to the learning of response habits. Their discovery enabled motivation and reinforcement to be understood in terms of their underlying physiology, and it led to further experimentation to determine the neural basis of reward and reinforcement. Since the initial discovery, the phenomenon of BSR has been demonstrated in all species tested, and Robert Heath similarly demonstrated that BSR can be applied to humans.\n\nEarly studies on the motivational effects of brain stimulation addressed two primary questions: 1. Which brain sites can be stimulated to produce the perception of reward? and 2. Which drugs influence the response to stimulation and via what mechanism? Investigation of the brain reward circuitry reveals that it consists of a distributed, multi-synaptic circuit that determines both BSR and natural reward function. The natural drives that motivate and shape behavior reach the reward circuitry trans-synaptically through the peripheral senses of sight, sound, taste, smell, or touch. However, experimentally-induced BSR more directly activates the reward circuitry and bypasses transduction through peripheral sensory pathways. For this reason, electrical brain stimulation provides a tool for identifying the reward circuitry within the central nervous system with some degree of anatomical and neurochemical specificity. Studies involving these two forms of laboratory reward showed stimulation of a broad range of limbic and diencephalic structures could be rewarding as well as implicated the dopamine-containing neurons of the mesolimbic dopamine system in motivational function. The motivational effect of intracranial self-stimulation varies substantially depending on the placement site of the surgically implanted electrode during electrical stimulation, and animals will work to stimulate different neural sites depending on their current state. Often, animals that work to initiate brain stimulation will also work to terminate the stimulation.\n\nThe relationship between BSR and natural rewards (e.g. food, water and copulation) has long been debated, and much of the early research on BSR is focused on their respective similarities and differences. BSR is facilitated through the same reinforcement pathway activated by natural rewards. Self-stimulation can exert robust activation of central reward mechanisms due to more direct action than natural rewards, which initially activate peripheral nerves. BSR to the medial forebrain bundle (MFB) through either electrical or chemical means activates key components of the reward pathway also activated by natural rewards. When specific regions of the hypothalamus are electrically stimulated, it elicits reward-related behaviors such as eating, drinking, or copulation responses.\n\nNatural rewards are associated with a state of deprivation which results from unmet needs or desires (e.g. hunger). These states drive instinctual, motivated behaviors like food consumption. It has been argued that this is not the case with BSR, as it does not meet an intrinsic survival-based need. BSR also notably lacks an established neural representation in memory that naturally facilitates the learning of reward expectancy. Both of these effects lead to diminished response rate for BSR in the early trials of a series; however, experiments have also shown that extinguished behavior can be quickly reinstated by a priming stimulation that refreshes the short-term association involved in reward expectancy. Studies on BSR indicate that reinforcing brain stimulation may activate the natural pathways associated with natural drives as well as stimulate the reinforcement pathways that are usually activated by natural rewards.\n\nRats will perform lever-pressing at rates of several thousand responses per hour for days in order to obtain direct electrical stimulation of the lateral hypothalamus. Multiple studies have demonstrated that rats will perform reinforced behaviors at the exclusion of all other behaviors. Experiments have shown rats will forgo food to the point of starvation in order to work for brain stimulation or intravenous cocaine when both food and stimulation are offered concurrently for a limited time each day. Rats will also cross electrified grids to press a lever, and they are willing to withstand higher levels of shock to obtain electrical stimulation than to obtain food .\n\nSatiation experiments in rats have revealed that BSR does not produce satiety. Olds demonstrated that this lack of satiation associated with BSR allows animals to self-stimulate to sheer exhaustion and that satiation is dependent on the location of the electrical stimulation. In a 48-hour satiation test, rats with hypothalamic electrodes self-stimulated to exhaustion and showed no intrinsic satiation tendencies, whereas telencephalic electrodes showed radical slowing of self-stimulation after 4 to 8 hours. The insatiability of BSR is closely related to the strength of drive. While a natural reward, like food, is met with a feeling of being full (satiety), BSR does not have a comparable correlate. This allows for BSR to be experienced indefinitely, or in the case of ICSS, until exhaustion.\n\nAddiction is a chronic brain disorder consisting of compulsive drug-taking and seeking that is maintained despite detrimental effects on various aspects of life including health, relationships, and work. Laboratory procedures can establish compulsive self-administration habits of seeking and ingesting that qualify as addictive behaviors. Rodents and non-human primates have been shown to work in a compulsive manner to receive intravenous injections of stimulants, and when access to the drugs is not limited, they will self-administer drugs to the point of severe weight loss and death. Similar to self-administration behavior, responding for intracranial brain stimulation has a highly compulsive component which is characteristic of an addicted state. BSR is hypothesized to be so effective in establishing compulsive habits due to its more direct activation of the reward pathway, bypassing transmission through sensory pathways which occurs in response to natural rewards. Delayed reinforcement following a response for BSR decreases how strongly this behavior is reinforced and to what extent it continues. A delay of one second, for example, between a lever-press and reward delivery (stimulation) can reduce response levels. BSR offers insights into the neural circuitry involved in reinforcement and compulsive behavior.\n\nMapping and lesion studies on BSR were designed to determine the location of reward-relevant neurons as well as determine the signal pathways that are directly affected by brain stimulation. The site of intracranial self-stimulation leads to substantially different behavioral characteristics. Sites along the length of the medial forebrain bundle (MFB) through the lateral and posterior hypothalamus, the ventral tegmental area (VTA), and into the pons are associated with the strongest reward effects of stimulation.\n\nThe lateral hypothalamus is a portion of the hypothalamus, and brain stimulation to this area at the level of the medial forebrain bundle produces the highest response rates and subsequently the highest reward potency in rodents. Lesions in this region or along its boundary cause a loss of positive drive-reward behaviors as well as all other operant drive behaviors.\n\nThe medial forebrain bundle (MFB) is the location of the most frequently investigated brain stimulation reward sites, and it is composed of a complex bundle of axons projecting from the basal olfactory regions and the septal nuclei. MFB is not the sole anatomical substrate responsible for reinforcing brain stimulation; however, it is the main tract for the ascending dopamine fibers, and it functions to relay information from the VTA to the nucleus accumbens. The rewarding effect of MFB stimulation is mediated via the activation of the mesocorticolimbic dopamine system.\n\nThe mesolimbic pathway connects the VTA to the nucleus accumbens. The nucleus accumbens is located in the ventral striatum and integrates information from cortical and limbic brain structures to mediate behaviors the reinforce reward. It is a major target for the dopaminergic projections from the VTA, a group of neurons located close to the midline on the floor of the midbrain. The VTA is the origin of dopaminergic cell bodies that comprise the mesocorticolimbic dopamine system.\n\nBSR has been shown to result in the release of dopamine within the nucleus accumbens, which also occurs in response to natural rewards such as food or sex.\n\nElectrophysiological data suggest stimulation of the MFB or VTA does not directly activate dopaminergic neurons in the mesolimbic reward pathway. These data suggest BSR is facilitated by initial excitation of descending, myelinated neurons which then activate the ascending, unmyelinated neurons of the VTA. Excitatory, cholinergic inputs to the VTA are thought to play a role in this indirect activation, but the neuroanatomical components of this circuit have yet to be fully characterized.\n\nSince the initial demonstration of BSR by Olds and Milner, experiments in rodents record ICSS responding to quantify motivation to receive stimulation. Subjects undergo stereotaxic surgery to permanently implant either a monopolar or bipolar electrode to the desired brain region. Electrodes are connected to a stimulating apparatus at the time of the experiment.\n\nThe first portion of an ICSS experiment involves training subjects to respond for stimulation using a fixed-ratio 1 (FR-1) reinforcement schedule (1 response = 1 reward). In experiments involving rats, subjects are trained to press a lever for stimulation, and the rate of lever-pressing is typically the dependent variable. In ICSS studies using mice, a response wheel is usually used instead of a lever, as mice do not consistently perform lever-pressing behaviors. Each quarter turn of the response wheel is recorded and rewarded with stimulation. The rewarding stimulus in BSR experiments is typically a train of short-duration pulses separated by interval pulses, which can be manipulated experimentally using the independent variables of stimulation amplitude, frequency, and pulse duration.\n\nThe amplitude (current) of stimulation determines the population of neurons being activated by the implanted electrode. In certain approaches, this is adjusted for every subject due to minor variability in electrode placement, and therefore a slightly different population of affected neurons. Following FR1 training, it is typical to establish a minimum, threshold current which produces sufficient levels of ICSS responding (about 40 responses per minute). This is called a discrete-trial current intensity procedure. Each discrete trial consists of non-contingent stimulation at a certain amplitude followed by a brief window during which the animal can respond for more stimulation. Effective currents for BSR elicit responding above a certain rate (3 out of 4 trials, for example). The lowest current the animal responds sufficiently to is deemed the minimum effective current. This is done at a constant frequency, typically at the higher end of the frequency range employed in ICSS studies (140–160 Hz).\n\nWithin-subject study design is often implemented to help eliminate variability introduced by electrode placement. Between-subject study design requires rigorous histologic verification of electrode placement to ensure consistency between experimental groups. Subjects with imperfect electrode placement require a higher simulation amplitude to activate the reward circuitry and produce ICSS responding. Subjects with ideal anatomical placement will respond at lower stimulation amplitudes. This corrective process is limited, however, since increasing the population of activated neurons can result in off-target activation of neighboring circuitry. This is often culminated in undesired motor side effects upon stimulation, due to the adjacency of the MFB to the internal capsule, a bundle of axons carrying descending motor information to the brainstem. Inadvertent stimulation of these axons can lead to motor output such as movement of the head or paw twitching.\n\nAt a constant minimum effective current, ICSS responding is recorded over a series of trials which vary in stimulation frequency. Each trial consists of a short priming phase of non-contingent stimulation, a response phase where responses are recorded and rewarded with stimulation, and a short time-out phase where responses are not recorded and no stimulation is delivered. This is repeated for a series of 10-15 different ascending or descending frequencies, in .05 log-unit increments, which range anywhere from 20–200 Hz.\n\nWhile the amplitude of the stimulation influences which neurons are being stimulated, the frequency of stimulation determines the firing rate induced in that neuronal population. Generally, increasing stimulation frequency increases the firing rate in the target population. This is associated with higher ICSS response rates, eventually reaching a maximum level at the maximum firing rate, limited by the refractory properties of neurons.\n\nThe independent variables of stimulation train and pulse duration can also be varied to determine how each affects ICSS response rates. Longer train durations produce more vigorous responding up to a point, after which rate of responding varies inversely with train length. This is due to lever-pressing for additional stimulation before the previously earned train has finished.\n\nThe reinforcement schedule can also be manipulated to determine how motivated an animal is to receive stimulation, reflected by how hard they are willing to work to earn it. This can be done by increasing the number of responses required to receive a reward (FR-2, FR-3, FR-4, etc.) or by implementing a progressive-ratio schedule, where the number of required responses continually increases. The number of required responses increases for each trial until the animal fails to reach the required number of responses. This is considered the \"break-point\" and is a good indication of motivation related to reward magnitude.\n\nStimulation intensity, pulse duration, or pulse frequency can be varied to determine dose-response functions ICSS responding using curve-shift analysis. This approach generally resembles traditional pharmacological dose-response curve where the frequency of stimulation, rather than the dose of a drug, is examined. This method allows for quantitative analysis of reward-modulating treatments on response rates in comparison to baseline conditions. Lower stimulation frequencies fail to sustain ICSS responding at a probability above chance. Response rates increase rapidly over a dynamic range of stimulation frequencies as the frequency increases, until a maximum response rate is reached. Changes in the rate of response over this range reflects changes in the magnitude of the reward. Rate-frequency, rate-intensity, or rate-duration functions make inferences about the potency and efficacy of stimulation, as well as elucidate how drugs alter the rewarding impact of stimulation.\n\nCurve-shift analysis is often used in pharmacological studies to compare baseline response rates to those following drug administration. The maximum response rate during baseline conditions is typically used to normalize data in a frequency-rate curve to a maximum control rate (MCR). More specifically, the number of responses for any given trial is divided by the highest number of responses recorded in a baseline condition trial, which is then multiplied by 100. In an experimental condition, if the MCR falls below 100% at the highest stimulation frequencies, it is thought to reflect an impacted capability or motivation to respond, potentially induced by a drug with sedative or aversive properties. Shifts above 100% of the MCR indicate improved ability or motivation to respond, potentially induced by a drug with rewarding or stimulant properties.\n\nSensitivity of the neural circuitry to the rewarding properties of stimulation is assessed by analyzing left- or right-shifts in the M50, or the frequency at which 50% of the maximum number of responses was recorded. Reaching 50% of the MCR at a lower frequency is characteristic of a left-shift in the frequency-rate curve and sensitization of the reward circuitry to stimulation. An increase in the M50 indicates that a greater stimulation frequency was required to reach 50% of the MCR, and the reward circuitry has been desensitized by the experimental manipulation. Another way of analyzing the frequency-rate curve between control and experimental conditions is to do a linear regression through the ascending data points in a plot of raw data (which has not been normalized to the MCR). The point where y=0, or the x-intercept, is called the threshold frequency or theta zero (θ). This is the frequency at which ICSS response rates are equal to 0 (and any frequency above this will theoretically elicit ICSS responding).\n\nThere are several major drug classes which have been studied extensively in relation to ICSS behavior: monoaminergic drugs, opioids, cholinergic drugs, GABAergic drugs, as well as a small number of drugs from other classes. These studies generally compare ICSS responding at baseline and following drug administration. Typically, the frequency-rate approach is used to determine changes in the M50 or θ\n\nDrugs with increased addiction liability generally decrease the stimulation threshold for ICSS responding, while drugs with aversive properties generally increase the stimulation threshold to achieve ICSS responding. These studies provide insight into the specific neurochemical mechanisms involved in the facilitation of BSR, and how reward perception can be modulated by pharmacologically altering the activity of specific neurotransmitter systems. Pharmacological manipulation of these systems can have either a direct or indirect effect on the activity of the reward circuitry. Understanding drug-specific effects on ICSS response thresholds has helped elucidate how different neurotransmitter systems influence the reward circuitry by either potentiating or suppressing sensitivity to rewarding stimulation and influencing motivation to perform reward-associated behaviors.\n\nBSR and drugs of addiction produce their rewarding effects through shared neuroanatomical and neurochemical mechanisms. Studies using lesion, pharmacological, and anatomical mapping of the brain have revealed that many drugs of abuse (e.g. amphetamine, cocaine, opioids, nicotine, etc.) activate the reward circuitry of the MFB, which is similarly activated by stimulation to achieve BSR. The neuronal axons of the mesolimbic dopamine system, a key component of the reward circuitry, generally have high thresholds for stimulation. However, these thresholds can be increased or decreased by drug administration, influencing sensitivity to intracranial stimulation and ICSS behavior.\n\nThe effects of drugs which alter the neurotransmission of dopamine, norepinephrine, and serotonin have been studied extensively in relation to BSR. Neurochemical studies have shown that BSR results in the release of dopamine within the nucleus accumbens. This effect is generally potentiated following administration of drugs which themselves increase the amount of extracellular dopamine in the nucleus accumbens, such as cocaine, which inhibits re-uptake of dopamine to the intracellular space by blocking its transporter. Conversely, these levels are decreased and the rewarding properties of BSR are blocked following administration of drugs which antagonize dopamine receptors or reduce the amount of extracellular dopamine, by promoting either degradation or re-uptake of the neurotransmitter. While dopamine is generally considered to be the main neurotransmitter implicated in the reward system, it is often not the only neurotransmitter affected by addictive, monoaminergic drugs. Importantly, the circuitry involved in BSR is multi-synaptic and not exclusively dopaminergic. This introduces potential for modulation by other neurotransmitter systems at different stages in the transmission of the reward signal.\n\nAdditionally, drugs which affect monoamine transmission vary in their selectivity. For example, drugs with high selectivity for increasing dopamine and norepinephrine transmission relative to serotonin transmission tend to have highly addictive properties. Amphetamine and cocaine share this selectivity profile, and administration of these drugs generally results in a left-shift in M50 and θ indicating sensitization of the reward circuitry and high abuse potential. This characteristic leftward-shift of M50 in response to a moderate dose of cocaine is illustrated in a hypothetical data set in Figure 1. Note that the maximum response rate is reached at a lower frequency than it is at baseline, and there is a significant response rate at the lowest frequency, which did not produce responding under baseline conditions. Even following chronic administration of methamphetamine or cocaine, there is little to no tolerance to ICSS facilitation. After chronic treatment is stopped, however, there is a withdrawal-induced depression of ICSS responding which can be reversed by re-administering the drug.\n\nDrugs with more balanced selectivity for dopamine/norepinephrine and serotonin transmission, such as 3,4-methylenedioxy-methamphetamine (MDMA), tend to be less addictive, and they have mixed effects on ICSS responding depending on dose and stimulation frequency. Serotonin selective drugs, however, tend to result in either a lack of ICSS potentiation or depression of ICSS responding (a right-shift in frequency-rate curve), and these drugs are generally considered to be less addictive. One such example is fenfluramine, which was previously marketed as an appetite suppressant. Dopamine antagonists generally result in the depression of ICSS responding and a rightward-shift in the frequency-rate curve. This suggests decreased BSR and possibly increased aversive properties of the stimulation. Following chronic treatment with a dopamine antagonist, there is withdrawal-induced facilitation of ICSS, the opposite effect of what is observed following chronic treatment with stimulants.\n\nDrugs which act on the opioid system generally vary in selectivity for the mu (μ), delta (δ), and kappa (κ) opioid receptors. Their addictive properties are highly dependent on these selectivities. Generally speaking, high potency mu-opioid receptor (MOR) agonists have high abuse potential, while kappa-opioid receptor (KOR) agonists generally produce a dysphoric state. Morphine, a MOR agonist, was one of the earliest studied drugs at the advent of ICSS and BSR. High potency MOR agonists like morphine have a somewhat varied effect on ICSS responding despite having high abuse potential, resulting in both potentiation and depression. The effect these drugs have on ICSS responding has been found to be highly dependent on dose, pretreatment time, and previous opioid exposure. Various studies on the effect of MOR-selective drugs including morphine, heroin, fentanyl, methadone, and hydrocodone have found mixed effects on ICSS responding. Low doses of these drugs have been found to elicit weak facilitation of ICSS, while high doses result in a biphasic ICSS profile, consisting of a higher threshold for ICSS at lower frequencies followed by ICSS potentiation at higher frequencies. Upon chronic administration of high-potency MOR agonists at low doses, there is no tolerance to ICSS facilitation.\n\nOpioid receptor antagonists, such as naloxone, can reverse the effects of both opioid receptor agonists on ICSS responding and the potentiating effects of psychostimulants like methamphetamine. Naloxone, which is a competitive antagonist of all opioid receptor sub-types, does not influence ICSS responding when administered on its own. KOR agonism, typically associated with dysphoric states, more consistently results in a depression of ICSS responding. The KOR agonist salvinorin-A, for example, causes an overall decrease in ICSS response rates at lower stimulation frequencies. Repeated administration does not produce tolerance to ICSS depression. The effects of delta opioid receptor (DOR) agonists/antagonists on ICSS are less clear. One DOR agonist, SNC80, has been found to cause ICSS depression, but there is counter-evidence suggesting some delta agonists might have weak ICSS facilitation properties.\n\nCholinergic drugs have been less extensively studied than monoamines and opioids. The most commonly studied cholinergic drug is nicotine, the highly-addictive, psychoactive substance in cigarettes. Nicotine is an agonist of nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAchRs), which are ligand-gated ion channels. The addictive properties of nicotine have been found to be associated with agonism specifically of the α4β2 sub-type of nicotinic receptors. Many studies have confirmed that low doses of nicotine result in ICSS facilitation, while higher doses result in ICSS depression. Chronic treatment with nicotine does not result in tolerance to ICSS facilitation at low doses, but does result in tolerance to the depressive effects of high doses. Withdrawal-induced depression of ICSS facilitation at low doses is also observed, as in MOR agonists and monoamine stimulants. It should be noted that the effects of nicotine treatment on ICSS response thresholds and maximum response rates are not as significant as they are in the case of many addictive MOR agonists and monoamine stimulants.\n\nGABAergic transmission is inhibitory, and the two main receptors for GABA are GABA and GABA. Drugs which act on GABA receptors, which are ligand-gated ion channels, are more widely studied, as they generally produce more robust effects on sedation and anxiety, and they are commonly prescribed for therapeutic uses. Several of these drugs have addictive properties, including several benzodiazepines and barbiturates. Low doses of these drugs generally result in ICSS facilitation, while higher doses can result in depression of ICSS and an overall decrease in the maximum response rate. The latter is likely related to an impaired ability to respond due to the sedative and hypnotic properties of these drugs. Ethanol influences GABA receptor activity, and has been found to moderately facilitate ICSS, despite older publications suggesting these findings are inconsistent.\n\nGABA receptor agonists and positive allosteric modulators have been found to result in ICSS depression and have been found to inhibit the reinforcing effects of several drugs, including cocaine, methamphetamine, and nicotine, reversing the ICSS facilitation these drugs typically cause.\n\nMechanisms of BSR offer a tool that provides insight into the way the brain governs behavior through motivation and reinforcement, especially in regard to addictive and compulsive behaviors. ICSS studies of BSR have proven to be a robust measure of reward sensitivity, and have potential to help assess the abuse liability of various future therapeutics. Additionally, ICSS studies have potential to be used to gauge how reward sensitivity is affected by genetic factors associated with addictive disorders. Drugs which have been found to prevent ICSS facilitation have potential to be developed and therapeutically implemented to reduce the risk of addictive disorders in a clinical setting.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5420128", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5420128", "title": "Childwite", "text": "Childwite\n\nIn medieval England, a childwite, or child-wit, was a fine paid by a man to a lord for unlawfully impregnating his bond-woman (female slave). The term was also selectively used of free women.\n\n"}
{"id": "24701302", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24701302", "title": "Clinopyroxene thermobarometry", "text": "Clinopyroxene thermobarometry\n\nIn petrology, the mineral clinopyroxene is used for temperature and pressure calculations of the magma that produced igneous rock containing this mineral. Clinopyroxene thermobarometry is one of several geothermobarometers. Two things makes this method especially useful: first, clinopyroxene is a common phenocryst in igneous rocks and easy to identify; second, the crystallization of the jadeite component of clinopyroxene implies a growth in molar volume being thus a good indicator of pressure.\n\nThe minerals and liquids involved in clinopyroxene thermobarometry are:\n\n"}
{"id": "542054", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=542054", "title": "Coefficient of performance", "text": "Coefficient of performance\n\nThe coefficient of performance or COP (sometimes CP or CoP) of a heat pump, refrigerator or air conditioning system is a ratio of useful heating or cooling provided to work required. Higher COPs equate to lower operating costs. The COP usually exceeds 1, especially in heat pumps, because, instead of just converting work to heat (which, if 100% efficient, would be a COP_hp of 1), it pumps additional heat from a heat source to where the heat is required. For complete systems, COP calculations should include energy consumption of all power consuming auxiliaries. COP is highly dependent on operating conditions, especially absolute temperature and relative temperature between sink and system, and is often graphed or averaged against expected conditions.\n\nThe equation is:\nwhere\n\nThe COP for heating and cooling are thus different, because the heat reservoir of interest is different. When one is interested in how well a machine cools, the COP is the ratio of the heat removed from the cold reservoir to input work. However, for heating, the COP is the ratio of the heat removed from the cold reservoir plus the input work to the input work:\nwhere\n\nAccording to the first law of thermodynamics, in a reversible system we can show that formula_7 and formula_8, where formula_9 is the heat transferred to the hot reservoir and formula_10 is the heat collected from the cold reservoir.<br>\nTherefore, by substituting for W,<br>\n\nFor a heat pump operating at maximum theoretical efficiency (i.e. Carnot efficiency), it can be shown that \nwhere formula_14 and formula_15 are the temperatures of the hot and cold heat reservoirs respectively.\nNote: these equations must use an absolute temperature scale, for example, Kelvin or Rankine.\n\nAt maximum theoretical efficiency, <br>\nwhich is equal to the reciprocal of the ideal efficiency for a heat engine, because a heat pump is a heat engine operating in reverse. Similarly, <br>\n\nNote that the COP of a heat pump depends on its duty. The heat rejected to the hot sink is greater than the heat absorbed from the cold source, so the heating COP is 1 greater than the cooling COP.\n\nformula_18 applies to heat pumps and formula_19 applies to air conditioners or refrigerators. For heat engines, see Efficiency. Values for actual systems will always be less than these theoretical maximums. In Europe, the standard tests for ground source heat pump units use 35 °C (95 °F) for formula_20 and 0 °C (32 °F) for formula_21. According to the above formula, the maximum achievable COP would be 7.8. Test results of the best systems are around 4.5. When measuring installed units over a whole season and accounting for the energy needed to pump water through the piping systems, seasonal COP's are around 3.5 or less. This indicates room for improvement.\n\nAs the formula shows, the COP of a heat pump system can be improved by reducing the temperature gap formula_24 minus formula_25 at which the system works. For a heating system this would mean two things: 1) reducing the output temperature to around which requires piped floor, wall or ceiling heating, or oversized water to air heaters and 2) increasing the input temperature (e.g. by using an oversized ground source or by access to a solar-assisted thermal bank ). Accurately determining thermal conductivity will allow for much more precise ground loop or borehole sizing, resulting in higher return temperatures and a more efficient system. For an air cooler, COP could be improved by using ground water as an input instead of air, and by reducing temperature drop on output side through increasing air flow. For both systems, also increasing the size of pipes and air canals would help to reduce noise and the energy consumption of pumps (and ventilators) by decreasing the speed of fluid which in turn lower the Re number and hence the turbulence (and noise) and the head loss (see hydraulic head). The heat pump itself can be improved by increasing the size of the internal heat exchangers which in turn increase the efficiency (and the cost) relative to the power of the compressor, and also by reducing the system's internal temperature gap over the compressor. Obviously, this latter measure makes such heat pumps unsuitable to produce high temperatures which means that a separate machine is needed for producing hot tap water.\n\nA geothermal heat pump operating at a formula_18 of 3.5 provides 3.5 units of heat for each unit of energy consumed (i.e. 1 kWh consumed would provide 3.5 kWh of output heat). The output heat comes from both the heat source and 1 kWh of input energy, so the heat-source is cooled by 2.5 kWh, not 3.5 kWh.\n\nA heat pump with formula_18 of 3.5, such as in the example above, could be less expensive to use than even the most efficient gas furnace except in areas where the electricity cost per unit is higher than 3.5 times the cost of natural gas (e.g. Connecticut or New York City).\n\nA heat pump cooler operating at a formula_19 of 2.0 removes 2 units of heat for each unit of energy consumed (e.g. an air conditioner consuming 1 kWh would remove 2 kWh of heat from a building's air).\n\nGiven the same energy source and operating conditions, a higher COP heat pump will consume less purchased energy than one with a lower COP. The overall environmental impact of a heating or air conditioning installation depends on the source of energy used as well as the COP of the equipment. The operating cost to the consumer depends on the cost of energy as well as the COP or efficiency of the unit. Some areas provide two or more sources of energy, for example, natural gas and electricity. A high COP of a heat pump may not entirely overcome a relatively high cost for electricity compared with the same heating value from natural gas.\n\nFor example, the 2009 US average price per therm () of electricity was $3.38 while the average price per therm of natural gas was $1.16. Using these prices, a heat pump with a COP of 3.5 in moderate climate would cost $0.97 to provide one therm of heat, while a high efficiency gas furnace with 95% efficiency would cost $1.22 to provide one therm of heat. With these average prices, the heat pump costs 20% less to provide the same amount of heat. At 0 °F (-18 °C) COP is much lower. Then, the same system costs as much to operate as an efficient gas heater. The yearly savings will depend on the actual cost of electricity and natural gas, which can both vary widely.\n\nWhile the COP is partly a measure of the efficiency of a heat pump, it is also a measure of the conditions under which it is operating: the COP of a given heat pump will rise as the input temperature increases or the output temperature decreases because it is linked to a warm temperature distribution system like underfloor heating.\n\nA realistic indication of energy efficiency over an entire year can be achieved by using Seasonal COP or Seasonal Coefficient of Performance (SCOP) for heat. Seasonal energy efficiency ratio (SEER) is mostly used for air conditioning. SCOP is a new methodology that gives a better indication of expected real-life performance, using COP can be considered using the \"old\" scale. Seasonal efficiency gives an indication on how efficient a heat pump operates over an entire cooling or heating season.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47550328", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47550328", "title": "Contraceptive Train", "text": "Contraceptive Train\n\nThe Contraceptive Train was a women's rights activism event which took place on 22 May 1971. Members of the Irish Women's Liberation Movement (IWLM), in protest against the law prohibiting the importation and sale of contraceptives in the Republic of Ireland, traveled to Belfast to purchase contraceptives.\n\nOn Saturday, 22 May 1971 the group met at Connolly Station in Dublin and then traveled to Belfast in Northern Ireland to purchase contraceptives, which were banned in the Republic of Ireland. The IWLM members were divided about who should go to Belfast. Some members thought that single women should not go because \"buying contraception implied they were having sex before marriage.\"\n\nContraception in the Republic of Ireland had been illegal since 1935 under the 1935 Criminal Law (Amendment) Act, and while contraception was legal in Northern Ireland it was restricted, so the women involved could not get the pill without a doctor's prescription (even though they tried). The women bought condoms and spermicide jelly, and instead of buying the pill they bought hundreds of packets of aspirin, as they realized that the majority of the custom officials would not know what the pill would looked like. They were followed by television crews from America, Japan and Ireland.\n\nOn arrival back at Connolly Station, there were protesters demonstrating, waiting for them to arrive. At customs, the women involved loudly declared what they had purchased and refused to hand over the contraceptives. Some women publicly swallowed the aspirin in defiance of the law, pretending that they were the pill. Others waved the contraceptives in the air as the passed through the station.\n\nWomen who were involved with the Contraceptive Train put themselves at risk of being detained or prosecuted for bringing birth control into Ireland. They also risked social stigma from their families and friends.\n\nThis action was a landmark moment in the Irish women’s movement: it helped break the \"taboo against discussing contraceptive practice.\" It also made a \"powerful statement\" which raised awareness of the issue surrounding women and contraception. The event received a large amount of press coverage.\n\n"}
{"id": "22244464", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22244464", "title": "Cooperative eye hypothesis", "text": "Cooperative eye hypothesis\n\nThe cooperative eye hypothesis is a proposed explanation for the appearance of the human eye. It suggests that the eye's distinctive visible characteristics evolved to make it easier for humans to follow another's gaze while communicating or while working together on tasks.\n\nUnlike other primates, human beings have eyes with a distinct colour contrast between the white sclera, the coloured iris, and the black pupil. This is due to a lack of pigment in the sclera. Other primates have pigmented sclerae that are brown or dark in colour. There is also a higher contrast between human skin, sclera, and irises. Human eyes are also larger in proportion to body size, and are longer horizontally. Among primates, humans are the only ones where the outline of the eye and the position of the iris can be clearly seen.\n\nThe cooperative eye hypothesis was first proposed by H. Kobayashi and S. Khoshima in 2002 and was subsequently tested by Michael Tomasello and others at the Max Planck Institute for Evolutionary Anthropology in Germany. Researchers examined the effect of head and eye movement on changing gaze direction in humans and great apes. A human experimenter, observed by either a human infant, a gorilla, a bonobo, or a chimpanzee, did one of four actions:\n\nThe apes were most likely to follow the gaze of the experimenter when only his head moved. The infants followed the gaze more often when only the eyes moved.\n\nThe results suggest that humans depend more on eye movements than head movements when trying to follow the gaze of another. Anthropologists not involved in the study have called the hypothesis plausible, noting that \"human infants and children both infer cooperative intentions in others and display cooperative intentions themselves.\"\n\nStudies of great ape behavior show that they are good at cooperating in situations where there is no potential of deception, but behave egotistically in situations where there are motives for deception, suggesting that their \"lack of cooperativeness\" is not a lack of a cognitive ability at all, but rather a necessary adaptation to a society full of deception. This suggests that human cooperativeness began when proto-humans began to successfully avoid competition, which is also supported by the fact that the oldest evidence of care for the long-term sick and disabled are from shortly after the first emigration of hominins out of Africa about 1.8 million years ago.\n\nThe cooperative eye hypothesis is not the only one that has been proposed to explain the appearance of the human eye. Other hypotheses include the proposal that white sclerae are a sign of good health, useful in mate selection, or that eye visibility promotes altruistic behaviour by letting people know they are being watched. The Planck institute study noted that \"these hypotheses are not mutually exclusive, and highly visible eyes may serve all of these functions.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16207545", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16207545", "title": "Critical Metrics", "text": "Critical Metrics\n\nCritical Metrics was a web-based music recommendation service. Unlike user-driven sites like The Hype Machine and Pandora, Critical Metrics featured only expert-generated content. Aggregating reviews and playlists from over 150 publications, both print and online, the site also encompassed historical sources. The site then ranked the songs mathematically, based on the information gathered. With a methodology based in the fields of bibliometrics and sentiment analysis, Critical Metrics quantified these positive citations and sentiments into indices for media playlisting and consumption.\n\nStreaming audio and YouTube videos were presented with the original recommendations, along with the option to purchase via iTunes or other online retailers. When the site was launched in April 2007, it hosted the streaming music itself. A licensing arrangement with Rhapsody removed the free music, but allowed unlimited listening and playlist-building for Rhapsody subscribers.\n\nCritical Metrics was founded by Joey Anuff, the co-founder of Suck.com and a former VH1 executive. The site was praised by Boing Boing, \"The Wall Street Journal\", and \"Business Week\". \"Los Angeles Times\" senior music critic Ann Powers referred to the site as her \"favorite snobby top 40 station\".\n\n\nThe website is now shut down and defunct.\n\n"}
{"id": "401753", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=401753", "title": "Death by sawing", "text": "Death by sawing\n\nThe term \"death by sawing\" indicates the act of sawing a living person in half, either sagittally (usually midsagittally), or transversely. Thus, decapitation by sawing or dismemberment by sawing are tangential sub-themes, though some ambiguous cases might be included. Death by sawing was a method of execution reportedly used in different parts of the world. Some of the reviewed examples are legendary. At least one source states that the method was probably never used.\n\nDifferent methods of death by sawing have been recorded. In cases related to the Roman Emperor Caligula, the sawing is said to be through the middle (transversely). In the cases of Morocco, it is stated that the sawing was lengthwise, both from the groin and upwards and from the skull and downwards (midsagittally).\n\nIn only one case, in the story about Simon the Zealot, the person is explicitly described as being hung upside-down and sawn apart vertically through the middle, starting at the groin, with no mention of fastening or support boards around the person, in the manner depicted in illustrations. In other cases where details about the method beyond the mere sawing act are explicitly supplied, the condemned person was apparently fastened to either one or two boards prior to sawing.\n\nJamshid was a legendary shah of Persia, whose story is told in the \"Shahnameh\" by Ferdowsi. After 300 years of blessed reign, Jamshid forgot the blessings came from God, and began demanding that he be revered as a god himself. The people rebelled, and Zahhak had him sawn asunder.\nParysatis, wife and half-sister of Darius II (r. 423–405 BC) was the real power behind the throne of the Achaemenid Empire; she instigated and became involved in a number of court intrigues, made several enemies, yet had an uncanny knack for dispatching them at an opportune time. At one point, she decided to have the siblings of her daughter-in-law Stateira killed, and only relented from killing Stateira as well due to the desperate pleas of her son, Artaxerxes II. Stateira's sister Roxana was the first of her siblings to be killed, by being sawn in half. When Dareius II died, Parysatis moved quickly, and was able to have the new queen Stateira poisoned; Parysatis still remained a power to be reckoned with for years after.\nHormizd IV (), son of Khosrow I, reigned as the twenty-first King of Persia from AD 579 to 590. As the years went by, he was, due to his \"cruelties\", deeply resented by the nobility. In 590, a palace coup was staged in which his son, Khosrow II, was declared king. Hormuzd IV was forced to watch his wife and one of his sons sawn in two, and the deposed king was then blinded. After a few days, the new king is said to have killed his old, blind father in a fit of rage.\n\nThracians were regarded as warlike, ferocious, and bloodthirsty by Romans and Greeks. One of the most notorious was the king Diegylis, possibly only topped by his son Ziselmius. According to Diodorus Siculus, Ziselmius sawed several persons to death and commanded their families to eat the flesh of their murdered relatives. The Thracians eventually rebelled, captured him and sought to inflict every conceivable torture upon him prior to his death.\n\nPromulgated about 451 BC, the Twelve Tables is the oldest extant law code for the Romans. Aulus Gellius, whose work \"Attic Nights\" is partially preserved, states that death by the saw was mentioned for some offenses in the tables, but that the use of which was so infrequent that no one could remember ever having seen it done. Of the retained laws in the Twelve Tables, the following concerning how creditors should proceed with debtors is found in Table 3, article 6: \"On the third market-day they [the creditors] shall cut pieces. If they shall have cut more or less [than their shares], it shall be with impunity (_s[in]e fraude_).\" The translator notes the ambiguity of the original text, but says that later Roman writers understood this to mean that creditors were allowed to cut their shares from the body of the debtor. If true, that would constitute dismemberment, rather than sawing.\nThis method of execution was uncommon throughout the time of the Roman Empire. However, it was used extensively during the reign of Caligula when the condemned, including members of his own family, were sawn across the torso rather than lengthways down the body. It is said that Caligula would watch such executions while he ate, stating that witnessing the suffering acted as an appetiser.\nThe Kitos War occurred 115–117 AD, and was a rebellion by the Jews within the Roman Empire. Major revolts happened several places, and the main source by Cassius Dio claims that in Cyrene, 220,000 Greeks were massacred by the Jews; in Cyprus, 240,000. Dio adds that many of the victims were sawn asunder, and that the Jews licked up the blood of the slain, and \"twisted the entrails like a girdle about their bodies\"\nIn 365 AD, Procopius declared himself emperor, and moved against Valens. He was defeated in battle, and due to the treachery of his two generals Agilonius and Gomoarius (they had been promised they would be \"shown favour\" by Valens), he was captured. In 366, he was fastened to two trees bent down with force; when the trees were released, Procopius was ripped apart. The \"favour\" Valens showed to Agilonius and Gomoarius was to have them both sawn asunder.\n\nThe prophet Isaiah was, according to some traditional rabbinic texts, sawn apart on orders of King Manasseh of Juda. One tradition states that he was put within a tree, and then sawn apart; another says he was sawn apart by means of a wooden saw.\n\n\nSeveral early Christians are credited with being martyred by means of a saw. The earliest, and most famous, is the obscure apostle of Jesus, Simon the Zealot. He is said to have been martyred in Persia, and that the express mode by which he was executed was to be hanged up by the feet, as in the woodcut illustration.\nLiving in the age of Domitian, Conus went, after his wife's death, with his 7-year-old son into a desert. However, he then had the idea of attacking paganism, and destroyed several idols in Cogni, Asia Minor (Anatolia). Caught, he and his son were tortured by starvation and fire, but they were finally put to the saw, dying while they prayed.\nSymphorosa was, allegedly, a widow with seven sons living in the age of emperor Trajan (98-117). They were commanded to pray at a heathen temple, but refusing, Symphorosa was scourged, and then with a large stone fastened to her, thrown in the river Aniene. The six eldest sons were all killed by stab wounds, but the youngest, Eugenius, was sawn apart. However, she may have been killed ca. 138, near the end of the reign of Hadrian (117–138).\nSupposedly during the reign of Diocletian, a community of monks lived at Mount Sinai. One day, the \"wild barbarians\" (said to be inveterate robbers and even cannibalizing their own sons occasionally) decided to rob the community. But, there was nothing of material wealth there, and in their rage, the Arabs slaughtered them all, several by flaying, others by sawing them with dull saws.\nAccused of practicing witchcraft and of causing sickness to befall the wife of the ardently anti-Christian Persian king Shapur II, she was condemned and executed by being sawed in half in the year 345.\n\nIn the 1630s, there are several reports from the Levant and Egypt that monks were killed. One of them, Brother Conrad d'Elis Barthelemy, a native of Montepulciano is said to have been sawn in two, from the head and downwards.\nWriting in 1843, William Holt Yates speaks of a governor under Muhammad Ali (r.1801–49), Abd-ur-Rahman Bey, who was said to be particularly cruel and avaricious. He was a renegade Copt, and abused his position to gain hold of wealth. He is even credited with having sawed people in two. Yates further supplies the detail: \"This fellow has since been assassinated-report says, with sanction and approval of the Government\"\n\nOne of the most notorious cases of sawing as execution is that of the Alcaide (castellan/governor) Melec under emperor Moulay Ishmael (r. 1672–1727). The fullest description of this execution is found in Dominique Busnot's 1714 work \"Histoire du règne de Mouley Ismael\", although a brief notice of the event can be found in the January 1706 edition of \"Present state of Europe\". In the following, the tale as told by Busnot will be given.\n\nMelec was judged as the chief rebel to be punished in a rebellion instigated by one of the emperor's sons, Mulay Muhammad. In particular, according to Busnot, the empress was incensed that Melec had personally beheaded one of her cousins, Ali Bouchasra. In September/October 1705, Mulay Ismail sent for his chief carpenter and asked if his saws were capable of sawing a man in two. The carpenter answered \"Sure enough\". He was then given the grisly task, and before he left, he asked him whether Melec should be sawn across or along the length. The emperor said the sawing should proceed lengthwise, from the head downwards. He told, however, Boachasra's sons, they should follow the carpenter and decide for themselves how best to take revenge upon the murderer (i.e., Melec) of their father. Taking with him 8 of the public executioner's assistants, the master carpenter went to the prison where Melec was held, two of his brand new saws packed in cloth, in order to keep from Melec information of the intended manner of execution. Melec was now placed on a mule, bound with an iron chain, and led to the public square, where some 4000 of his relatives and members of his tribe were assembled. These made a \"terrifying\" spectacle through screaming, and clawing their faces in a public display of grief. Melec, on the other hand, seemed unperturbed, calmly smoking from his tobacco pipe. When taken down from the mule, Melec's clothes were removed, damning letters \"proving\" his treason was cast in the fire.\n\nThen, he was strapped onto a board, and placed upon a sawbench, his arms and legs fastened. The executioner's team then sought to start by sawing him from the head downwards, but Boucasra's sons intervened, and demanded that one began between Melec's legs instead, because otherwise, he would die too quickly. Under the terrible screams of Melec and his relatives, thus began his execution. Once they had sawed him up to the navel, they pulled out the saw in order to commence from the other side. Melec is said to have been still conscious, asking for some water. His friends, though, thought it best to hasten his demise and shorten his sufferings, and the executioners went on, sawing him from skull to navel so he fell apart. In the process, chunks of flesh were ripped out by the saw's teeth, causing blood to splatter everywhere, thus making the execution quite unbearable to watch.\n\nAround 300 other conspirators were impaled alive, and another report states that in addition to these, some other 20 chief conspirators had their arms and legs sawed off, and left to expire in the marketplace.\n19 July 1721, a noble descended from the Andalusian Moors, Larbe Shott was put to the saw. He had spent considerable time at Gibraltar, and one of the crimes imputed to him was to have spent time in Christian kingdoms without his emperor's leave. Furthermore, he had been found guilty of defiling himself with Christian women, and often drunk alcohol. In short, he was charged as an apostate and unbeliever, in addition to being charged with having invited the \"Spaniards\" to invade Barbary (i.e., treason). They brought him to one of the gates in the city, fastened him between two boards, and sawed him in two, from skull and downwards. After his death, Mulay Ishmael pardoned him, so that his body could be picked up and given a decent burial at least, instead of being eaten by the dogs.\n\nIn 1757, a French officer was executed by his men in a mutiny on Cat Island in current-day Mississippi. Three of the mutineers were eventually captured and brought to New Orleans for trial. After conviction, two of the mutineers died on the French wheel. The last mutineer, a Swiss from the Karrer regiment, was allegedly, nailed into a coffin-shaped wooden box, and it was sawed into with a cross-cut saw. This claim of a Swiss being sawed in two was first made by the French captain and traveller Jean Bernard Bossu in his 1768 \"Nouveaux Voyages aux Indes Occidentales\", translated into English by Johann Reinhold Forster in 1771.\n\nCommenting on Bossu's general reliability in a footnote to his essay \"A Map within an Indian Painting?\", jurist Morris S. Arnold says the following: \"Bossu's books contain a lot of tall tales, so one needs to be cautious about relying on him\". Bossu claims that being \"sawed asunder\" was a traditional Swiss military punishment, and alleges that one Swiss mutineer actually committed suicide to avoid that punishment. Therefore, the one who was allegedly sawed in half had his punishment as governed by Swiss military law, rather than French. An incident from 1741 (in Louisbourg, Canada) shows that at that time, when two Frenchmen and a Swiss were executed, Swiss mercenary troops had been placed under French military law, rather than under Swiss. Furthermore, detailing the recorded executions in the Swiss Canton of Zürich through the 15th-18th century, Gerold Meyer von Knonau records 1445 executions in total, none of them being through death by sawing.\nIn August 1791, a great slave revolt broke out at Saint-Domingue, eventually leading to Haitian independence. In the process, some 4,000 white planters and their family members were massacred. One of the victims was a carpenter by trade, Robert. The rebels decided he \"should die in the way of his occupation\" and accordingly fastened him between two boards and sawed him apart.\n\nIn 1123, Joscelin de Courtenay and Baldwin II were separately ambushed and surprised by a Turkish emir, Balac, and made prisoners at the castle at Quartapiert. Some 50 Armenians, bound by oath to Joscelin as Count of Edessa, decided to free their liege lord as well as Baldwin II. Dressed as monks and pedlars, they gained entry in the town where the two nobles were held captive, and managed, through massacre, to take control of the castle. Joscelin slipped out in order to raise a force, while Baldwin II and his nephew Galeran remained behind to hold the castle. Apprised of the capture of the castle, Balac sent quickly a force to recapture it, and Baldwin II saw no possibility of holding it. Graciously, Balac took Baldwin and his nephew merely prisoners. Not so merciful was he towards the Armenians: Several of them were flayed, others buried up to the neck and used as target practice, the rest were sawn apart.\nThe Assassins, a misnomer for the Nizari, an Ismaili sect, had an independent kingdom in the Levant during the age of the Crusades, and were feared and loathed by Muslims and Christians alike. The Jewish traveller Benjamin of Tudela, travelling the region around 1157 notes that the Assassins were reputed to saw in two the kings of other peoples, if they managed to capture them.\n\nA number of accounts exist where the Ottomans are said to have sawn persons in two, most of them said to occur in Mehmed the Conqueror's reign (1451–81).\nA number of cruel excesses against the populace of Constantinople is said to have happened in the wake of the taking of the city. according to one rendering of the tale:\nAfter the last Despot of Morea, Demetrios Palaiologos in 1460 switched allegiance to the Turks and gave them entry to Mystras, a tale grew up that the actual castellan at the castle of Mystras was ordered sawn in two. This tale was \"well known\" in later centuries, whatever actual veracity.\nIn 1460, the Hungarian general Michael Szilágyi was seized by the Turks, and since he was regarded as a traitor and spy, he was sawed in half at Constantinople.\nIn the following years, inhabitants in Greece under the Venetians fought several battles in the Morea. In 1464, for example, a small city is said to have been subdued, and 500 prisoners sent to Constantinople. There, they were put to the saw, according to one account.\nThe Knights Hospitallers, then stationed at Rhodes, sent several knights to aid in the defence of Mytilene from the Turks. They eventually surrendered, under promise of having their lives spared. Instead, according to some reports, they were sawed asunder. According to Kenneth Meyer Setton, the sultan had actually promised to spare the heads of some 400 knights, and sawed them in half to keep his oath of not harming the heads.\nThe Triarchy of Negroponte, a Crusader state or \"Stato da Màr\" under control of the Republic of Venice, was extinguished by the capture of the city in 1469/1470, and the governor Paolo Erizzo, is said to treacherously to have been ordered sawn in two, after have being promised his life would be spared. The sultan, Mehmed the Conqueror, is said to have cut off the head of Erizzo's daughter by his own hands, because she would not yield to his desires.\nIn 1473, a Sicilian called Anthony, is said to have managed set fire to the sultan's ships at the Sanjak of Gelibolu, Gallipoli. After being captured at Negroponte, he was brought before the sultan who asked him what harm had been done to him that he performed such an evil deed? The young man answered that he simply wanted to harm the enemy of Christianity in some glorious way. The sultan is said to have ordered that Anthony should be sawn in two.\nIn 1480, the Ottomans, led by Gedik Ahmed Pasha, invaded mainland Italy, occupying Otranto. A general massacre, of disputed magnitude, occurred. Archbishop Stefano Pendinelli was, by some reports, ordered to be sawn in half.\nDionysius the Philosopher led an eventually unsuccessful revolt against the Ottomans, seeking to establish a power base at Ioannina. Dionysius was flayed alive, and his skin, stuffed with straw, was sent as a present to the sultan, Ahmed I, at Constantinople. The other principal conspirators were said to be punished in various ways, some were burnt alive, others impaled, and yet others sawn asunder.\nRigas Feraios (1760–98), was an early Greek patriot, whose struggle for independence of Greece preceded with about 30 years the general uprising known as the Greek War of Independence. His actual manner of death has garnered many tales; Encyclopædia Britannica 1911, for example, states that he was shot in the back. Yet others state that he was strangled. Some 19th century stories report that he was sawn in two. Finally, one source asserts he was beheaded.\n\nThe Sikh Bhai Mati Das, a follower of the 9th guru, Guru Tegh Bahadur was in 1675 AD ordered executed by emperor Aurangzeb, along with several other prominent Sikhs, including their Guru, because of their refusal to convert to Islam. Bhai Mati Das was sawed in half, the others in different manners.\n\nSeveral reports state that even in the 1820s, sawing criminals in two was an occasional punishment in Burma for \"certain offenses\". The criminals were fastened between two planks prior to the sawing. However, this might possibly have been conflated by reports of \"disembowelment\", for which eyewitness reports exist.\n\nThe Burmese general Maha Bandula is said to have had one of his high-ranking officers sawn in two, due to some act of disobedience, the person being fastened between two planks for that purpose.\n\nOn occasion, a confusion of reports may exist where, for example, performed post-mortem indignities are misinterpreted as the actual manner of execution:\n\nIn 1839, the governor of Vietnam's Nam Định Province summoned five hundred soldiers to a banquet to pressure them into trampling upon a cross in renunciation of Christianity. Most of the guests complied, but three Catholic soldiers refused. One of the Vietnamese Martyrs, Augustin Huy, is reported by some sources to have been sawed in two. Others report that he was hacked to death, or cut in two. But, a letter from 1839, just three weeks after the execution 12 June, states that he was beheaded.:\n\nThe movement of a saw may cause a body to sway back and forth making the process difficult for the executioners. The Chinese overcame this problem by securing the victim in an upright position between two boards firmly fixed between stakes driven deep into the ground. Two executioners, one at each end of the saw, would saw downwards through the stabilized boards and enclosed victim. Whether sawing as an execution method actually existed, or that cases referred to are garbled accounts of the \"slow slicing\" method of execution will remain an open question.\nThe emperor Zhaozong of Tang (r. 888–904) is said to have commanded one of his prisoners sawn asunder.\nWhen the last emperor of the Ming dynasty committed suicide in 1644, the new emperor had one of the previous regime's strongest supporters, Chen, said to be viceroy of Canton, sawed in two. However, growing in popularity in his martyrdom, the new regime condemned the execution of Chen, declared him to have been a holy man, and erected a pagoda in Canton for his memory.\n\nIn the aftermath of the destruction of the last Islamic kingdom in Spain, Granada in 1492, the Moriscoes, the descendants of Muslims and those who still were, in secret, adherents of Islam, felt increasingly persecuted. In 1568, the Morisco revolt broke out, under leadership of Aben Humeya. The crushing of the revolt was extremely bloody, and at Almería 1569, the historian Luis del Marmol Carvajal states that one Morisco was sawn apart alive.\nIn the Spanish rebellion of 1808 against the occupying French forces, reports exist that some French officers were sawed in two. In one of those reports, it is colonel Rene (or Frene) who met this fate. In another report, Rene was merely thrown into a kettle of boiling water, whereas the officers Caynier and Vaugien were the ones sawed in two.\n\nAfter the Fire of Moscow in September 1812, the French Grande Armée had not exactly endeared itself to the local population. The peasant population is said to have become embittered, fanaticized, and even developed an effective guerrilla. In addition, the \"wild Cossacks\" lurked about, and both groups of Russians could be a deadly enemy to solitary French soldiers. Some of those unfortunates are said to have been sawed apart.\n\nThe Hungarian Revolution of 1848 was a bitter struggle where different ethnicities and people of different religious persuasions committed atrocities against others. A decidedly partisan pamphlet from 1850, \"Ungarns gutes recht\" (\"The well-founded right of Hungary\") from 1850, states that in the struggles around Banat, some 4,000 Serbians, spurred on by the preaching of the Metropolitan of Karlovci, Josif Rajačić, committed heinous deeds against the Hungarians. Women, children and old men were mutilated, roasted over slow fires, some sawn apart.\n\nIn Hindu lore, Yama is the god of death. He determines the punishments to those who were wicked in life. Those guilty of robbing a Brahmin, are to be sawn apart while being in \"Naraka\" (Hell).\nSawing people asunder is one of the punishments said to occur in Buddhist Hell, and the priests knew how to make a visible spectacle of sufferings in the beyond, by commissioning artists to make paintings the populace were meant to see and reflect upon:\n\nIn Italy and Spain, a curious tradition of \"segare la vecchia\" (\"sawing the old woman\") was upheld on Laetare Sunday (Mid-Lent Sunday) in hamlets and towns, well into the 19th century. The custom consisted of the boys running about to find the \"oldest woman in the village\", and then make a wooden effigy in her likeness. Then, the wooden figure was sawn across the middle. The folklorist Jacob Grimm regards this as an odd spring ritual, in which the \"old year\"/winter is symbolically defeated. He also notes that a rather similar custom existed in his day among Southern Slavs.\n\n"}
{"id": "379119", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=379119", "title": "Decline in amphibian populations", "text": "Decline in amphibian populations\n\nThe decline in amphibian populations is an ongoing mass extinction of amphibian species worldwide. Since the 1980s, decreases in amphibian populations, including population crashes and mass localized extinctions, have been observed in locations all over the world. These declines are known as one of the most critical threats to global biodiversity, and several causes are believed to be involved, including disease, habitat destruction and modification, exploitation, pollution, pesticide use, introduced species, and ultraviolet-B radiation (UV-B). However, many of the causes of amphibian declines are still poorly understood, and the topic is currently a subject of much ongoing research. Calculations based on extinction rates suggest that the current extinction rate of amphibians could be 211 times greater than the background extinction rate and the estimate goes up to 25,000–45,000 times if endangered species are also included in the computation.\n\nAlthough scientists began observing reduced populations of several European amphibian species already in the 1950s, awareness of the phenomenon as a global problem and its subsequent classification as a modern-day mass extinction only dates from the 1980s. By 1993, more than 500 species of frogs and salamanders present on all five continents were in decline. Today, the phenomenon of declining amphibian populations affects thousands of species in all types of ecosystems and is thus recognized as one of the most severe examples of the Holocene extinction, with severe implications for global biodiversity.\n\nIn the past three decades, declines in populations of amphibians (the class of organisms that includes frogs, toads, salamanders, newts, and caecilians) have occurred worldwide. In 2004, the results were published of the first worldwide assessment of amphibian populations, the Global Amphibian Assessment. This found that 32% of species were globally threatened, at least 43% were experiencing some form of population decrease, and that between 9 and 122 species have become extinct since 1980. , the IUCN Red List, which incorporates the Global Amphibian Assessment and subsequent updates, lists 486 amphibian species as \"Critically Endangered\". Despite the high risk this group faces, recent evidence suggests the public is growing largely indifferent to this and other environmental problems, posing serious problems for conservationists and environmental workers alike.\n\nHabitat loss, disease and climate change are thought to be responsible for the drastic decline in populations in recent years. \nDeclines have been particularly intense in the western United States, Central America, South America, eastern Australia and Fiji (although cases of amphibian extinctions have appeared worldwide). While human activities are causing a loss of much of the world's biodiversity, amphibians appear to be suffering much greater effects than other classes of organism. Because amphibians generally have a two-staged life cycle consisting of both aquatic (larvae) and terrestrial (adult) phases, they are sensitive to both terrestrial and aquatic environmental effects. Because their skins are highly permeable, they may be more susceptible to toxins in the environment than other organisms such as birds or mammals. Many scientists believe that amphibians serve as \"canaries in a coal mine,\" and that declines in amphibian populations and species indicate that other groups of animals and plants will soon be at risk.\n\nDeclines in amphibian populations were first widely recognized in the late 1980s, when a large gathering of herpetologists reported noticing declines in populations in amphibians across the globe. Among these species, the Golden toad (\"Bufo periglenes\") endemic to Monteverde, Costa Rica, featured prominently. It was the subject of scientific research until populations suddenly crashed in 1987 and it had disappeared completely by 1989. Other species at Monteverde, including the Monteverde Harlequin Frog (\"Atelopus varius\"), also disappeared at the same time. Because these species were located in the pristine Monteverde Cloud Forest Reserve, and these extinctions could not be related to local human activities, they raised particular concern among biologists.\n\nWhen amphibian declines were first presented as a conservation issue in the late 1980s, some scientists remained unconvinced of the reality and gravity of the conservation issue. Some biologists argued that populations of most organisms, amphibians included, naturally vary through time. They argued that the lack of long-term data on amphibian populations made it difficult to determine whether the anecdotal declines reported by biologists were worth the (often limited) time and money of conservation efforts.\n\nHowever, since this initial skepticism, biologists have come to a consensus that declines in amphibian populations are a real and severe threat to biodiversity. This consensus emerged with an increase in the number of studies that monitored amphibian populations, direct observation of mass mortality in pristine sites that lacked apparent cause, and an awareness that declines in amphibian populations are truly global in nature.\n\nNumerous potential explanations for amphibian declines have been proposed. Most or all of these causes have been associated with some population declines, so each cause is likely to affect in certain circumstances but not others. Many of the causes of amphibian declines are well understood, and appear to affect other groups of organisms as well as amphibians. These causes include habitat modification and fragmentation, introduced predators or competitors, introduced species, pollution, pesticide use, or over-harvesting. However, many amphibian declines or extinctions have occurred in pristine habitats where the above effects are not likely to occur. The causes of these declines are complex, but many can be attributed to emerging diseases, climate change, increased ultraviolet-B radiation, or long-distance transmission of chemical contaminants by wind.\n\nArtificial lighting has been suggested as another potential cause. Insects are attracted to lights making them scarcer within the amphibian habitats.\n\nHabitat modification or destruction is one of the most dramatic issues affecting amphibian species worldwide. As amphibians generally need aquatic and terrestrial habitats to survive, threats to either habitat can affect populations. Hence, amphibians may be more vulnerable to habitat modification than organisms that only require one habitat type. Large scale climate changes may further be modifying aquatic habitats, preventing amphibians from spawning altogether.\n\nHabitat fragmentation occurs when habitats are isolated by habitat modification, such as when a small area of forest is completely surrounded by agricultural fields. Small populations that survive within such fragments are often susceptible to inbreeding, genetic drift, or extinction due to small fluctuations in the environment.\n\nThere is evidence of chemical pollutants causing frog developmental deformities (extra limbs, or malformed eyes). Pollutants have varying effects on frogs. Some alter the central nervous system; others like atrazine cause a disruption in the production and secretion of hormones. Experimental studies have also shown that exposure to commonly used herbicides such as glyphosate (Tradename Roundup) or insecticides such as malathion or carbaryl greatly increase mortality of tadpoles. Additional studies have indicated that terrestrial adult stages of amphibians are also susceptible to non-active ingredients in Roundup, particularly POEA, which is a surfactant. Atrazine has been shown to cause male tadpoles of African clawed frogs to become hermaphroditic with development of both male and female organs. Such feminization has been reported in many parts of the world. In a study conducted in a laboratory at Uppsala University in Sweden, more than 50% of frogs exposed to levels of estrogen-like pollutants existing in natural bodies of water in Europe and the United States became females. Tadpoles exposed even to the weakest concentration of estrogen were twice as likely to become females while almost all of the control group given the heaviest dose became female.\n\nWhile most pesticide effects are likely to be local and restricted to areas near agriculture, there is evidence from the Sierra Nevada mountains of the western United States that pesticides are traveling long distances into pristine areas, including Yosemite National Park in California.\n\nSome recent evidence points to ozone as a possible contributing factor to the worldwide decline of amphibians.\n\nLike many other organisms, increasing ultraviolet-B (UVB) radiation due to stratospheric ozone depletion and other factors may harm the DNA of amphibians, particularly their eggs. The amount of damage depends upon the life stage, the species type and other environmental parameters. Salamanders and frogs that produce less photolyase, an enzyme that counteracts DNA damage from UVB, are more susceptible to the effects of loss of the ozone layer. Exposure to ultraviolet radiation may not kill a particular species or life stage but may cause sublethal damage.\n\nMore than three dozen species of amphibians have been studied, with severe effects reported in more than 40 publications in peer-reviewed journals representing authors from North America, Europe and Australia. Experimental enclosure approaches to determine UVB effects on egg stages have been criticized; for example, egg masses were placed at water depths much shallower than is typical for natural oviposition sites. While UVB radiation is an important stressor for amphibians, its effect on the egg stage may have been overstated.\n\nAnthropogenic climate change has likely exerted a major effect on amphibian declines. For example, in the Monteverde Cloud Forest, a series of unusually warm years led to the mass disappearances of the Monteverde Harlequin frog and the Golden Toad. An increased level of cloud cover, a result of geoengineering and global warming, which has warmed the nights and cooled daytime temperatures, has been blamed for facilitating the growth and proliferation of the fungus \"Batrachochytrium dendrobatidis\" (the causative agent of the fungal infection chytridiomycosis).\n\nAlthough the immediate cause of the die offs was the chytrid, climate change played a pivotal role in the extinctions. Researchers included this subtle connection in their inclusive climate-linked epidemic hypothesis, which acknowledged climatic change as a key factor in amphibian extinctions both in Costa Rica and elsewhere.\n\nNew evidence has shown global warming to also be capable of directly degrading toads' body condition and survivorship. Additionally, the phenomenon often colludes with landscape alteration, pollution, and species invasions to effect amphibian extinctions.\n\nA number of diseases have been related to mass die-offs or declines in populations of amphibians, including \"red-leg\" disease (\"Aeromonas hydrophila\"), \"Ranavirus\" (family Iridoviridae), \"Anuraperkinsus\", and chytridiomycosis. It is not entirely clear why these diseases have suddenly begun to affect amphibian populations, but some evidence suggests that these diseases may have been spread by humans, or may be more virulent when combined with other environmental factors.\n\nThere is considerable evidence that parasitic trematode platyhelminths (a type of fluke) have contributed to developmental abnormalities and population declines of amphibians in some regions. These trematodes of the genus \"Ribeiroia\" have a complex life cycle with three host species. The first host includes a number of species of aquatic snails. The early larval stages of the trematodes then are transmitted into aquatic tadpoles, where the metacercariae (larvae) encyst in developing limb buds. These encysted life stages produce developmental abnormalities in post-metamorphic frogs, including additional or missing limbs. These abnormalities increase frog predation by aquatic birds, the final host of the trematode.\nA study showed that high levels of nutrients used in farming and ranching activities fuel parasite infections that have caused frog deformities in ponds and lakes across North America. The study showed increased levels of nitrogen and phosphorus cause sharp hikes in the abundance of trematodes, and that the parasites subsequently form cysts in the developing limbs of tadpoles causing missing limbs, extra limbs and other severe malformations including five or six extra or even no limbs.\n\nIn 1998, following large-scale frog deaths in Australia and Central America, research teams in both areas came up with identical results: a previously undescribed species of pathogenic fungus, \"Batrachochytrium dendrobatidis\". It is now clear that many recent extinctions of amphibians in Australia and the Americas are linked to this fungus. This fungus belongs to a family of saprobes known as chytrids that are not generally pathogenic.\n\nThe disease caused by \"Batrachochytrium dendrobatidis\" is called chytridiomycosis. Frogs infected by this disease generally show skin lesions and hyperkeratosis, and it is believed that death occurs because of interference with skin functions including maintenance of fluid balance, electrolyte homeostasis, respiration and role as a barrier to infections. The time from infection to death has been found to be 1–2 weeks in experimental tests, but infected animals can carry the fungus as long as 220 days. There are several hypotheses on the transmission and vectors of the fungus.\n\nSubsequent research has established that the fungus has been present in Australia since at least 1978, and present in North America since at least the 1970s. The first known record of chytrid infection in frogs is in the African Clawed Frog, \"Xenopus laevis\".\nBecause \"Xenopus\" are sold in pet shops and used in laboratories around the world, it is possible that the chytrid fungus may have been exported from Africa.\n\nNon-native predators and competitors have also been found to affect the viability of frogs in their habitats. The mountain yellow-legged frog which typically inhabits the Sierra Nevada lakes have seen a decline in numbers due to stocking of non-native fish (trout) for recreational fishing. The developing tadpoles and froglets fall prey to the fish in large numbers. This interference in the frog's three-year metamorphosis is causing a decline that is manifest throughout their ecosystem.\n\nFrogs and toads are highly vocal, and their reproductive behaviour often involves the use of vocalizations. There have been suggestions that increased noise levels caused by human activities may be contributing to their declines. In a study in Thailand, increased ambient noise levels were shown to decrease calling in some species and to cause an increase in others. This has, however, not been shown to be a cause for the widespread decline.\n\nAmphibian populations in the beginning stages of decline often exude a number of signs, which may potentially be used to identify at-risk segments in conservation efforts. One such sign is developmental instability, which has been proven as evidence of environmental stress. This environmental stress can potentially raise susceptibility to diseases such as chytridiomycosis, and thus lead to amphibian declines. In a study conducted in Queensland, Australia, for example, populations of two amphibian species, \"Litoria nannotis\" and \"Litoria genimaculata\", were found to exhibit far greater levels of limb asymmetry in pre-decline years than in control years, the latter of which preceded die offs by an average of 16 years. Learning to identify such signals in the critical period before population declines occur might greatly improve conservation efforts.\n\nOn 16 February 2007, scientists worldwide met in Atlanta, U.S., to form a group called the Amphibian Ark to help save more than 6,000 species of amphibians from disappearing by starting captive breeding programmes.\n\nConservation efforts have been created by several organizations such as Amphibian Conservation Alliance (ACA) and the World Wildlife Fund to help further studies on frog extinction and educate people on the issue at hand.\n\nAreas with noticed frog extinctions, like Australia, have few policies that have been created to prevent the extinction of these species. However, local initiatives have been placed where conscious efforts to decrease global warming will also turn into a conscious effort towards saving the frogs. In South America, where there is also an increased decline of amphibian populations, there is no set policy to try to save frogs. Some suggestions would include getting entire governments to place a set of rules and institutions as a source of guidelines that local governments have to abide by.\n\nA critical issue is how to design protected areas for amphibians which will provide suitable conditions for their survival. Conservation efforts through the use of protected areas have shown to generally be a temporary solution to population decline and extinction because the amphibians become inbred. It is crucial for most amphibians to maintain a high level of genetic variation through large and more diverse environments.\n\nEducation of local people to protect amphibians is crucial, along with legislation for local protection and limiting the use of toxic chemicals, including some fertilizers and pesticides in sensitive amphibian areas.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33637949", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33637949", "title": "Eggshell and protein membrane separation", "text": "Eggshell and protein membrane separation\n\nEggshell and protein membrane separation is a recycling process. Nearly 30% of the eggs consumed each year are broken and processed or powdered into foods such as cakes, mixes, mayonnaise, noodles and fast foods. The US food industry generates 150,000 tons of shell waste a year. The disposal methods for waste eggshells are 26.6% as fertilizer, 21.1% as animal feed ingredients, 26.3% discarded in municipal dumps, and 15.8% used in other ways. Many landfills are unwilling to take the waste because the shells and the attached membrane attract vermin. Together the calcium carbonate eggshell and protein-rich membrane have no value or use. The invention of an eggshell and membrane separator has allowed for the recycling of these two valuable products.\n\nChicken eggshells are made up of 95% calcium carbonate by weight and the remaining material, 3.5%, is organic matrix.\n\nThe rich calcium carbonate shell has been used in the application for calcium deficiency therapies in humans and animals. A single eggshell has a mass of six grams which yields around 2200 mg of calcium. Eggshell particles are used in toothpaste as an anti-tartar agent. Powdered eggshells have been used for bone mineralization and growth.\n\nRecent applications of eggshells in the form of calcium lactate has been used as a firming agent, a flavor enhancer, a flavoring agent, a leavening agent, a nutrient supplement, a stabilizer, and thickener. Eggshells are also used in as a calcium supplement in orange juice.\n\nEggshells have been incorporated into fertilizers as a soil conditioner. They have also been used as a supplement to animal feed. More recently the egg calcium carbonate particles have been used as coating pigments for ink-jet printing. Powdered eggshells are also used in making paper pulp. Recently eggshell waste has been used as a low cost catalyst for biodiesel production.\n\nJoseph H. MacNeil, Professor of Food Science at Penn State University, developed a machine that uses a delicate multi-bladed knife to scrape the membrane from the surface of shell fragments. This invention uses a water-based method to separate the eggshell and protein membrane. The two products are processed in two streams to yield mm size particles of dry membrane and mm size particles of dried shell.\n\nAnother non-chemical separation technique utilizes steam heat, mechanical abrasion, and a light vacuum to separate the hard eggshell from the protein-containing membranes. This invention passes shell fragments obtained from egg-breaking facilities through a series of heated augers. Once the shell and membrane flakes reach the appropriate moisture content, the vacuum pulls them into a cyclone device. The cyclonic action further separates the heavier eggshell flakes from the lighter membrane flakes. This invention has been commercialized and can easily separate multiple metric tons per day, allowing for the production of valuable products including commercial volumes of natural eggshell membrane or NEM.\n\nLevi New invented a non-chemical and non-thermal separation technique that utilizes airflow to pull egg shells through a venturi. The material is subjected to pressure waves while passing through the venturi. A PulverDryer machine configured with a venturi sized to process egg shell pulverizes the shell component into fine powder and discharges the membrane as an intact dry flake material. The two components are separated in post processing by a standard shaker screen table, then the membrane is cleaned via one of several standard washing processes, depending on end use. Up to several tons of egg shell material can be processed per hour.\n\nThe waste eggshells are put into water and then ground to separate the eggshell from the protein membrane. Then the ground eggshell is placed in a separate vessel where air is injected into the water flow. The air and water mixture causes the lighter component (protein membrane) to float and the heavier (calcium carbonate eggshells) to sink. This unit recovers 96% of eggshell membrane and 99% of eggshell calcium carbonate in two hours.\n\nThe inventor of this method is Vladimir Vlad. The machine uses unseparated eggshells that are placed in a fluid tank, applying cavitation to separate the eggshell membrane from the eggshell. The fluid tank in this case contains distilled water and acetic acid to provide continuous processing. Also this invention has a method for collecting separated eggshells to grind them into an eggshell powder.\n"}
{"id": "325729", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=325729", "title": "Emergent democracy", "text": "Emergent democracy\n\nEmergent democracy refers to the rise of political structures and behaviors without central planning and by the action of many individual participants, especially when mediated by the Internet. More recently, Clay Shirky has referred to this as \"the power of organizing without organizations.\" The term was coined to stand in contrast to more traditional forms of democracy, such as representational democracy and direct democracy. The phrase draws upon emergence theory for the idea that the simple actions of individuals can collectively create complex and unpredictable results, as when the behavior of termites results in large, efficient nests beyond the comprehension of any individual participant.\n\nIn the paper that first drew attention to the term, Joi Ito expresses a hope that the Internet, as a large and decentralized network, will enable innovative responses by citizens to highly complex problems. From its outset, emergent democracy has been seen arising most clearly among bloggers who, as a decentralized network of writers, can provide a fuller airing and development of ideas than can the relatively limited resources of traditional media. Supporters of the idea point to instances in which bloggers have brought about political change by posting about issues that mainstream media had not paid much attention to. The canonical example of emergent democracy was the December 2002 resignation of Trent Lott as Senate majority leader after bloggers publicized his praising of Strom Thurmond's 1948 segregationist campaign for the presidency.\n\nIto had been vocal about issues with Japanese democracy, and had spoken at Davos about how broken he felt Japanese democracy was. \"Afterwards, Ms. Ogata, the former UN High Commissioner for Refugees told me that I should stop ranting as a Japanese and think more about global democracy and global issues,\" he posted. \"These words stuck with me and last year I tried to think about blogs and emergent democracy outside of the Japanese context.\" \nHe organized a group effort to discuss and document the emergent democracy concept, using a term initially coined by Ross Mayfield. He announced meetings on his weblog, inviting his readers to attend a conference call that was augmented by IRC chat for posting realtime visual cues and backchannel conversation, and a wiki for gathering notes from the call. This \"multimodal\" approach was called a \"happening\" by Ross Mayfield. The conversation resulted in Ito's online article that generated discussions about the potential for weblogs and other social software tools to influence participation in governance. The discussion and notes were captured in a paper that was placed on a wiki for collaborative editing and enhancement. Jon Lebkowsky edited the wiki version, and published it as a chapter in the 2005 book \"Extreme Democracy\". A \"teach-in\" on that topic was held on February 9, 2004 as part of the O'Reilly Emerging Technology Conference. The emergent democracy paper was incubated within the O'Reilly Emerging Technologies framework along with Tim O'Reilly's \"What is Web 2.0\"; the two can be considered as seminal works that influenced the emergence of today's social web.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8770941", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8770941", "title": "Empathy-altruism", "text": "Empathy-altruism\n\nEmpathy-altruism is a form of altruism based on feelings for others.\n\nThe social exchange theory states that altruism does not exist unless benefits to the helper outweigh the costs. C. Daniel Batson holds that people help others in need out of genuine concern for the well-being of the other person. The key ingredient to helping is \"empathic concern\". According to his empathy-altruism hypothesis, if someone feels empathy towards another person, they will help them, regardless of what they can gain from it (1991). An alternative hypothesis that exists is empathy-joy, which states a person helps because they find pleasure at seeing another person experience relief (2008). When they do not feel empathy, the social exchange theory takes control.\n\nDebate over whether other-helping behavior is motivated by self- or other interest has raged over the last 20 years. The prime actors in this debate are Daniel Batson arguing for empathy-altruism and Robert Cialdini arguing for self-interest.\nHowever, Batson recognized that people sometimes helped out of selfish reasons. He and his team were interested in finding ways to distinguish between motives. In one experiment, students were asked to listen to tapes from a radio program. One of the interviews was with a woman named Carol, who talked about her bad car accident in which both of her legs were broken, her struggles and how behind she was becoming in class. Students who were listening to this particular interview were given a letter asking the student to share lecture notes and meet with her. The experimenters changed the level of empathy by telling one group to try to focus on how she was feeling (high empathy level) and the other group not to be concerned with that (low empathy level). The experimenters also varied the cost of not helping: the high cost group was told that Carol would be in their psychology class after returning to school and the low cost group believed she would finish the class at home. The results confirmed the empathy-altruism hypothesis: those in the high empathy group were almost equally as likely to help her in either circumstance, while the low empathy group helped out of self-interest. Seeing her in class every day made them feel guilty if they did not help (Batson & Toi, 1982). \n\nThe authors of \"Five Studies Testing Two New Egoistic Alternatives to the Empathy-Altruism Hypothesis\" set out to show that empathy motivates other-regarding helping behavior not out of self-interest but out of true interest in the well-being of others.\nTwo hypotheses that counter the empathy-altruism hypothesis are addressed in this article:\n\n"}
{"id": "30047981", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30047981", "title": "Faith (name)", "text": "Faith (name)\n\nFaith is an English feminine given name derived from the word \"faith.\" It became popularized when the Puritans began using it as a virtue name during the 17th century. Puritans also used Faith as part of longer phrase names, such as Be-faithful, Faithful, Faith-my-joy, and Fight-the-good-fight-of-faith.\n\nThe name is also the usual English translation of the Greek name of Saint Faith, an early Christian child martyr who was tortured to death along with her sisters Hope and Charity. She is known as Pistis in Greek and Fides in Church Latin and her name is translated differently in other languages. \n\nFaith, Hope and Charity, the three theological virtues, are names traditionally given to triplet girls, just as Faith and Hope remain common names for twin girls. There were 40 sets of twins named Faith and Hope born in the United States in 2009, the second most common name combination for twin girls. In 2011, there were 33 sets of twin girls named Faith and Hope in the United States, the fourth most common name combination for twins. One example were the American triplets Faith, Hope and Charity Cardwell, who were born in 1899 in Texas and were recognized in 1994 by the Guinness Book of World Records as the world's longest lived triplets.\n\nFaith has been a consistently popular name for girls in the United States, ranking among the top 1,000 names since 1880 and the top 500 names since 1921. It has ranked among the top 100 names in the United States since 1999 and was ranked as the 71st most popular name for newborn girls in 2011.\n\nOther cultures also give names in reference to religious faith. The name Iman is used by Muslims for both boys and girls in reference to faith in Islam.\n"}
{"id": "515104", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=515104", "title": "Fisher's fundamental theorem of natural selection", "text": "Fisher's fundamental theorem of natural selection\n\nFisher's fundamental theorem of natural selection is an idea about genetic variance in population genetics developed by the statistician and evolutionary biologist Ronald Fisher. The proper way of applying the abstract mathematics of the theorem to actual biology has been a matter of some debate.\n\nIt states:\n\nOr in more modern terminology:\n\nThe theorem was first formulated in Fisher's 1930 book \"The Genetical Theory of Natural Selection\". Fisher likened it to the law of entropy in physics, stating that \"It is not a little instructive that so similar a law should hold the supreme position among the biological sciences\". The model of Quasi-linkage equilibrium was introduced by Motoo Kimura in 1965 as an approximation in the case of weak selection and weak epistasis.\n\nLargely as a result of Fisher's feud with the American geneticist Sewall Wright about adaptive landscapes, the theorem was widely misunderstood to mean that the average fitness of a population would always increase, even though models showed this not to be the case. In 1972, George R. Price showed that Fisher's theorem was indeed correct (and that Fisher's proof was also correct, given a typo or two), but did not find it to be of great significance. The sophistication that Price pointed out, and that had made understanding difficult, is that the theorem gives a formula for part of the change in gene frequency, and not for all of it. This is a part that can be said to be due to natural selection.\n\nMore recent work (reviewed by Grafen in 2003) builds on Price's understanding in two ways. One aims to improve the theorem by completing it, i.e. by finding a formula for the whole of the change in gene frequency, and accounting for the effects of mutations. The other argues that the partial change is indeed of great conceptual significance, and aims to extend similar partial change results into more and more general population genetic models.\n\nDue to confounding factors, tests of the fundamental theorem are quite rare though Bolnick in 2007 did test this effect in a natural population.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37062270", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37062270", "title": "Freedom from fear", "text": "Freedom from fear\n\nFreedom from fear is listed as a fundamental human right according to The Universal Declaration of Human Rights. On January 6, 1941, United States President Franklin D. Roosevelt called it one of the \"Four Freedoms\" at his State of the Union, which was afterwards therefore referred to as the \"Four Freedoms Speech.\"\n\nIn his speech President Franklin D. Roosevelt formulated freedom from fear as follows: \"The fourth is freedom from fear, which, translated into world terms, means a worldwide reduction of armaments to such a point and in such a thorough fashion that no nation will be in a position to commit an act of physical aggression against any neighbour—anywhere in the world.\"\n\nThe four freedoms of Roosevelt formed an important pillar of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights that were adopted on December 10, 1948, by the United Nations General Assembly. The freedom from fear is mentioned in the preamble of the Declaration.\n\nIn 1943 painter Norman Rockwell created \"Freedom from Fear\", in his series of four paintings called \"Four Freedoms\".\n\nIt is an important concept for Burmese Aung San Suu Kyi, who published a book on it in 1991 with the title \"Freedom from Fear\". In 1999 historian David M. Kennedy published a book called \"\".\n\n"}
{"id": "18562589", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18562589", "title": "Gossen's second law", "text": "Gossen's second law\n\nGossen's Second “Law”, named for Hermann Heinrich Gossen (1810–1858), is the assertion that an economic agent will allocate his or her expenditures such that the ratio of the marginal utility of each good or service to its price (the marginal expenditure necessary for its acquisition) is equal to that for every other good or service. Formally,\nwhere\n\nImagine that an agent has spent money on various sorts of goods or services. If the last unit of currency spent on goods or services of one sort bought a quantity with \"less\" marginal utility than that which would have been associated with the quantity of another sort that could have been bought with the money, then the agent would have been \"better off\" instead buying more of that other good or service. Assuming that goods and services are continuously divisible, the only way that it is possible that the marginal expenditure on one good or service should not yield more utility than the marginal expenditure on the other (or \"vice versa\") is if the marginal expenditures yield \"equal\" utility.\n\nAssume that utility, goods, and services have the requisite properties so that formula_7 is well defined for each good or service. An agent then optimizes\nsubject to a budget constraint\nwhere\nUsing the method of Lagrange multipliers, one constructs the function\nand finds the first-order conditions for optimization as\n(which simply implies that all of formula_10 will be spent) and\nso that\nwhich is algebraically equivalent to\nSince every such ratio is equal to formula_17, the ratios are all equal one to another:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22771741", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22771741", "title": "Green shoots", "text": "Green shoots\n\nGreen shoots is a term used colloquially and propagandistically to indicate signs of economic recovery during an economic downturn. It was first used in this sense by Norman Lamont, the then Chancellor of the Exchequer of the United Kingdom, during the 1991 Recession. At the time, Chancellor Lamont was criticized for \"insensitivity\". The phrase was used again by Baroness Vadera, former Business Minister of the UK in January, 2009 to refer to signs of economic recovery during the late-2000s recession, again to criticism from the media and opposition politicians. The U.S. media started to use the phrase to describe domestic economic conditions in February 2009 when in New York Times quoted Bruce Kasman, chief economist at JPMorgan Chase as saying, \"It's too early to get excited, but I think there are a couple of green shoots that say we're not going down as heavily in the first quarter [of 2009] as we were in the fourth quarter [of 2008].\" The Federal Reserve Chairman, Ben Bernanke, made the first public use of the phrase by a Fed official in a March 15, 2009 interview with CBS 60 Minutes. Since February and March 2009, it has been used increasingly in the media and by a number of commentators to refer to positive economic data and statistics during the late-2000s (decade) recession.\n\n"}
{"id": "13070", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13070", "title": "LGBT social movements", "text": "LGBT social movements\n\nLesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender (LGBT) social movements are social movements that advocate for LGBT+ people in society. Social movements may focus on equal rights, such as the 2000s movement for marriage equality, or they may focus on liberation, as in the gay liberation movement of the 1960s and 1970s. Earlier movements focused on self-help and self-acceptance, such as the homophile movement of the 1950s. Although there is not a primary or an overarching central organization that represents all LGBT+ people and their interests, numerous LGBT rights organizations are active worldwide. The earliest organizations to support LGBT+ rights were formed in the 19th century.\n\nA commonly stated goal among these movements is social equality for LGBT people, but there is still denial of full LGBT+ rights. Some have also focused on building LGBT+ communities or worked towards liberation for the broader society from biphobia, homophobia, and transphobia. There is a struggle for LGBT rights today. LGBT movements organized today are made up of a wide range of political activism and cultural activity, including lobbying, street marches, social groups, media, art, and research.\n\nSociologist Mary Bernstein writes: \"For the lesbian and gay movement, then, cultural goals include (but are not limited to) challenging dominant constructions of masculinity and femininity, homophobia, and the primacy of the gendered heterosexual nuclear family (heteronormativity). Political goals include changing laws and policies in order to gain new rights, benefits, and protections from harm.\" Bernstein emphasizes that activists seek both types of goals in both the civil and political spheres.\n\nAs with other social movements, there is also conflict within and between LGBT movements, especially about strategies for change and debates over exactly who represents the constituency of these movements, and this also applies to changing education. There is debate over what extent lesbians, gays, bisexuals, transgender people, intersexed people, and others share common interests and a need to work together. Leaders of the lesbian and gay movement of the 1970s, 80s and 90s often attempted to hide masculine lesbians, feminine gay men, transgender people, and bisexuals from the public eye, creating internal divisions within LGBT communities. Roffee and Waling (2016) discovered that LGBTIQ people experience microaggressions, bullying and anti-social behaviours from other people within the LGBTIQ community. This is due to misconceptions and conflicting views as to what entails \"LGBTIQ\". For example, transgender people found that other members of the community were not understanding to their own, individual, specific needs and would instead make ignorant assumptions, and this can cause health risks. Additionally, bisexual people found that lesbian or gay people were not understanding or appreciative of the bisexual sexuality. Evidently, even though most of these people would say that they stand for the same values as the majority of the community, there are still remaining inconsistencies even within the LGBTIQ community.\n\nLGBT movements have often adopted a kind of identity politics that sees gay, bisexual, and transgender people as a fixed class of people; a minority group or groups, and this is very common among LGBT communities. Those using this approach aspire to liberal political goals of freedom and equal opportunity, and aim to join the political mainstream on the same level as other groups in society. In arguing that sexual orientation and gender identity are innate and cannot be consciously changed, attempts to change gay, lesbian, and bisexual people into heterosexuals (\"conversion therapy\") are generally opposed by the LGBT community. Such attempts are often based in religious beliefs that perceive gay, lesbian, and bisexual activity as immoral.\n\nHowever, others within LGBT movements have criticised identity politics as limited and flawed, elements of the queer movement have argued that the categories of gay and lesbian are restrictive, and attempted to deconstruct those categories, which are seen to \"reinforce rather than challenge a cultural system that will always mark the nonheterosexual as inferior.\"\n\nAfter the French Revolution the anticlerical feeling in Catholic countries coupled with the liberalizing effect of the Napoleonic Code made it possible to sweep away sodomy laws. However, in Protestant countries, where the church was less severe, there was no general reaction against statutes that were religious in origin. As a result, many of those countries retained their statutes on sodomy until late in the 20th century.\n\nIn eighteenth- and nineteenth-century Europe, same-sex sexual behaviour and cross-dressing were widely considered to be socially unacceptable, and were serious crimes under sodomy and sumptuary laws. There were, however, some exceptions. For example, in the 17th century cross dressing was common in plays, as evident in the content of many of William Shakespeare's plays and by the actors in actual performance (since female roles in Elizabethan theater were always performed by males, usually prepubescent boys).\n\nThomas Cannon wrote what may be the earliest published defense of homosexuality in English, \"Ancient and Modern Pederasty Investigated and Exemplify'd\" (1749). Although only fragments of his work have survived, it was a humorous anthology of homosexual advocacy, written with an obvious enthusiasm for its subject. It contains the argument: \"Unnatural Desire is a Contradiction in Terms; downright Nonsense. Desire is an amatory Impulse of the inmost human Parts: Are not they, however constructed, and consequently impelling, Nature?\"\nSocial reformer Jeremy Bentham wrote the first known argument for homosexual law reform in England around 1785, at a time when the legal penalty for buggery was death by hanging. His advocacy stemmed from his utilitarian philosophy, in which the morality of an action is determined by the net consequence of that action on human well-being. He argued that homosexuality was a victimless crime, and therefore not deserving of social approbation or criminal charges. He regarded popular negative attitudes against homosexuality as an irrational prejudice, fanned and perpetuated by religious teachings. However, he did not publicize his views as he feared reprisal; his powerful essay was not published until 1978.\n\nThe emerging currents of secular humanist thought which had inspired Bentham also informed the French Revolution, and when the newly formed National Constituent Assembly began drafting the policies and laws of the new republic in 1792, groups of militant \"sodomite-citizens\" in Paris petitioned the Assemblée nationale, the governing body of the French Revolution, for freedom and recognition. In 1791, France became the first nation to decriminalize homosexuality, probably thanks in part to Jean Jacques Régis de Cambacérès, who was one of the authors of the Napoleonic Code. With the introduction of the Napoleonic Code in 1808, the Duchy of Warsaw also decriminalized homosexuality.\n\nIn 1830, the new Penal Code of the Brazilian Empire did not repeat the title XIII of the fifth book of the \"Ordenações Philipinas\", which made sodomy a crime. In 1833, an anonymous English-language writer wrote a poetic defense of Captain Nicholas Nicholls, who had been sentenced to death in London for sodomy:\n\n<poem>Whence spring these inclinations, rank and strong?\nAnd harming no one, wherefore call them wrong?</poem>\n\nThree years later in Switzerland, Heinrich Hoessli published the first volume of \"Eros: Die Männerliebe der Griechen\" (English: \"Eros: The Male Love of the Greeks\"), another defence of same-sex love.\n\nIn many ways, social attitudes to homosexuality became more hostile during the late Victorian era. In 1885, the Labouchere Amendment was included in the Criminal Law Amendment Act, which criminalized 'any act of gross indecency with another male person'; a charge that was successfully invoked to convict playwright Oscar Wilde in 1895 with the most severe sentence possible under the Act.\n\nFrom the 1870s, social reformers began to defend homosexuality, but due to the controversial nature of their advocacy, kept their identities secret. A secret British society called the \"Order of Chaeronea\" campaigned for the legalisation of homosexuality, and counted playwright Oscar Wilde among its members in the last decades of the 19th century. The society was founded by George Cecil Ives, one of the earliest gay rights campaigners, who had been working for the end of oppression of homosexuals, what he called the \"Cause\". Ives met Oscar Wilde at the Authors' Club in London in 1892. Oscar Wilde was taken by his boyish looks and persuaded him to shave off his moustache, and once kissed him passionately in the Travellers' Club. In 1893, Lord Alfred Douglas, with whom he had a brief affair, introduced Ives to several Oxford poets whom Ives also tried to recruit. In 1897, Ives created and founded the first homosexual rights group, the Order of Chaeronea. Members included Charles Kains Jackson, Samuel Elsworth Cottam, Montague Summers, and John Gambril Nicholson.\n\nJohn Addington Symonds was a poet and an early advocate of male love. In 1873, he wrote \"A Problem in Greek Ethics\", a work of what would later be called \"gay history.\" Although the \"Oxford English Dictionary\" credits the medical writer C.G. Chaddock for introducing \"homosexual\" into the English language in 1892, Symonds had already used the word in \"A Problem in Greek Ethics\".\n\nSymonds also translated classical poetry on homoerotic themes, and wrote poems drawing on ancient Greek imagery and language such as \"Eudiades\", which has been called \"the most famous of his homoerotic poems\". While the taboos of Victorian England prevented Symonds from speaking openly about homosexuality, his works published for a general audience contained strong implications and some of the first direct references to male-male sexual love in English literature. By the end of his life, Symonds' homosexuality had become an open secret in Victorian literary and cultural circles. In particular, Symonds' memoirs, written over a four-year period, from 1889 to 1893, form the earliest known self-conscious homosexual autobiography.\n\nAnother friend of Ives was the English socialist poet Edward Carpenter. Carpenter thought that homosexuality was an innate and natural human characteristic and that it should not be regarded as a sin or a criminal offence. In the 1890s, Carpenter began a concerted effort to campaign against discrimination on the grounds of sexual orientation, possibly in response to the recent death of Symonds, whom he viewed as his campaigning inspiration. His 1908 book on the subject, \"The Intermediate Sex\", would become a foundational text of the LGBT movements of the 20th century. Scottish anarchist John Henry Mackay also wrote in defense of same-sex love and androgyny.\n\nEnglish sexologist Havelock Ellis wrote the first objective scientific study of homosexuality in 1897, in which he treated it as a neutral sexual condition. Called \"Sexual Inversion\" it was first printed in German and then translated into English a year later. In the book, Ellis argued that same-sex relationships could not be characterized as a pathology or a crime and that its importance rose above the arbitrary restrictions imposed by society. He also studied what he called 'inter-generational relationships' and that these also broke societal taboos on age difference in sexual relationships. The book was so controversial at the time that one bookseller was charged in court for holding copies of the work. It is claimed that Ellis coined the term 'homosexual', but in fact he disliked the word due to its conflation of Greek and Latin.\n\nThese early proponents of LGBT rights, such as Carpenter, were often aligned with a broader socio-political movement known as 'free love'; a critique of Victorian sexual morality and the traditional institutions of family and marriage that were seen to enslave women. Some advocates of free love in the early 20th century, including Russian anarchist and feminist Emma Goldman, also spoke in defence of same-sex love and challenged repressive legislation.\n\nAn early LGBT movement also began in Germany at the turn of the 20th century, centering on the doctor and writer Magnus Hirschfeld. In 1897 he formed the Scientific-Humanitarian Committee campaign publicly against the notorious law \"Paragraph 175\", which made sex between men illegal. Adolf Brand later broke away from the group, disagreeing with Hirschfeld's medical view of the \"intermediate sex\", seeing male-male sex as merely an aspect of manly virility and male social bonding. Brand was the first to use \"outing\" as a political strategy, claiming that German Chancellor Bernhard von Bülow engaged in homosexual activity.\n\nThe 1901 book \"Sind es Frauen? Roman über das dritte Geschlecht\" (English: \"Are These Women? Novel about the Third Sex\") by Aimée Duc was as much a political treatise as a novel, criticising pathological theories of homosexuality and gender inversion in women. Anna Rüling, delivering a public speech in 1904 at the request of Hirschfeld, became the first female Uranian activist. Rüling, who also saw \"men, women, and homosexuals\" as three distinct genders, called for an alliance between the women's and sexual reform movements, but this speech is her only known contribution to the cause. Women only began to join the previously male-dominated sexual reform movement around 1910 when the German government tried to expand Paragraph 175 to outlaw sex between women. Heterosexual feminist leader Helene Stöcker became a prominent figure in the movement. Friedrich Radszuweit published LGBT literature and magazines in Berlin (e.g., \"Die Freundin\").\n\nHirschfeld, whose life was dedicated to social progress for people who were transsexual, transvestite and homosexual, formed the Institut für Sexualwissenschaft (Institute for Sexology) in 1919. The institute conducted an enormous amount of research, saw thousands of transgender and homosexual clients at consultations, and championed a broad range of sexual reforms including sex education, contraception and women's rights. However, the gains made in Germany would soon be drastically reversed with the rise of Nazism, and the institute and its library were destroyed in 1933. The Swiss journal Der Kreis was the only part of the movement to continue through the Nazi era.\n\nUSSR's Criminal Code of 1922 decriminalised homosexuality. This was a remarkable step in the USSR at the time – which was very backward economically and socially, and where many conservative attitudes towards sexuality prevailed. This step was part of a larger project of freeing sexual relationships and expanding women's rights – including legalising abortion, granting divorce on demand, equal rights for women, and attempts to socialise housework. During Stalin's era, however, USSR reverted all these progressive measures – re-criminalizing homosexuality and imprisoning gay men and banning abortion.\n\nIn 1928, English writer Radclyffe Hall published a novel titled \"The Well of Loneliness\". Its plot centers on Stephen Gordon, a woman who identifies herself as an invert after reading Krafft-Ebing's \"Psychopathia Sexualis\", and lives within the homosexual subculture of Paris. The novel included a foreword by Havelock Ellis and was intended to be a call for tolerance for inverts by publicizing their disadvantages and accidents of being born inverted. Hall subscribed to Ellis and Krafft-Ebing's theories and rejected (conservatively understood version of) Freud's theory that same-sex attraction was caused by childhood trauma and was curable.\n\nIn the United States, several secret or semi-secret groups were formed explicitly to advance the rights of homosexuals as early as the turn of the 20th century, but little is known about them. A better documented group is Henry Gerber's Society for Human Rights formed in Chicago in 1924, which was quickly suppressed.\n\nImmediately following World War II, a number of homosexual rights groups came into being or were revived across the Western world, in Britain, France, Germany, the Netherlands, the Scandinavian countries and the United States. These groups usually preferred the term \"homophile\" to \"homosexual\", emphasizing love over sex. The homophile movement began in the late 1940s with groups in the Netherlands and Denmark, and continued throughout the 1950s and 1960s with groups in Sweden, Norway, the United States, France, Britain and elsewhere. ONE, Inc., the first public homosexual organization in the U.S, was bankrolled by the wealthy transsexual man Reed Erickson. A U.S. transgender rights journal, \"Transvestia: The Journal of the American Society for Equality in Dress\", also published two issues in 1952.\n\nThe homophile movement lobbied to establish a prominent influence in political systems of social acceptability. Radicals of the 1970s would later disparage the homophile groups for being assimilationist. Any demonstrations were orderly and polite. By 1969, there were dozens of homophile organizations and publications in the U.S, and a national organization had been formed, but they were largely ignored by the media. A 1962 gay march held in front of Independence Hall in Philadelphia, according to some historians, marked the beginning of the modern gay rights movement. Meanwhile, in San Francisco, the LGBT youth organization Vanguard was formed by Adrian Ravarour to demonstrate for equality, and Vanguard members protested for equal rights during the months of April–July 1966, followed by the August 1966 Compton's riot, where transgender street prostitutes in the poor neighborhood of Tenderloin rioted against police harassment at a popular all-night restaurant, Gene Compton's Cafeteria.\n\nThe Wolfenden Report was published in Britain on 4 September 1957 after publicized convictions for homosexuality of well-known men, including Lord Montagu. Disregarding the conventional ideas of the day, the committee recommended that \"homosexual behaviour between consenting adults in private should no longer be a criminal offence\". All but James Adair were in favour of this and, contrary to some medical and psychiatric witnesses' evidence at that time, found that \"homosexuality cannot legitimately be regarded as a disease, because in many cases it is the only symptom and is compatible with full mental health in other respects.\" The report added, \"The law's function is to preserve public order and decency, to protect the citizen from what is offensive or injurious, and to provide sufficient safeguards against exploitation and corruption of others … It is not, in our view, the function of the law to intervene in the private life of citizens, or to seek to enforce any particular pattern of behaviour.\"\n\nThe report eventually led to the introduction of the Sexual Offences Bill 1967 supported by Labour MP Roy Jenkins, then the Labour Home Secretary. When passed, The Sexual Offences Act decriminalised homosexual acts between two men over 21 years of age \"in private\" in England and Wales.\n\nBisexual activism became more visible toward the end of the 1960s in the United States. In 1966 bisexual activist Robert A. Martin (a.k.a. Donny the Punk) founded the Student Homophile League at Columbia University and New York University. In 1967 Columbia University officially recognized this group, thus making them the first college in the United States to officially recognize a gay student group. Activism on behalf of bisexuals in particular also began to grow, especially in San Francisco. One of the earliest organizations for bisexuals, the Sexual Freedom League in San Francisco, was facilitated by Margo Rila and Frank Esposito beginning in 1967. Two years later, during a staff meeting at a San Francisco mental health facility serving LGBT people, nurse Maggi Rubenstein came out as bisexual. Due to this, bisexuals began to be included in the facility's programs for the first time.\n\nThe American Psychiatric Association removed \"homosexuality\" from the diagnostics manual of mental illness in 1973.\nThe new social movements of the sixties, such as the Black Power and anti-Vietnam war movements in the US, the May 1968 insurrection in France, and Women's Liberation throughout the Western world, inspired many LGBT activists to become more radical, and the Gay Liberation movement emerged towards the end of the decade. This new radicalism is often attributed to the Stonewall riots of 1969, when a group of gay men, lesbians, and drag queens at a bar in New York resisted a police raid.\n\nImmediately after Stonewall, such groups as the Gay Liberation Front (GLF) and the Gay Activists' Alliance (GAA) were formed. Their use of the word \"gay\" represented a new unapologetic defiance—as an antonym for \"straight\" (\"respectable sexual behaviour\"), it encompassed a range of non-normative sexualities and sought ultimately to free the bisexual potential in everyone, rendering obsolete the categories of homosexual and heterosexual. According to Gay Lib writer Toby Marotta, \"their Gay political outlooks were not homophile but liberationist\". \"Out, loud and proud,\" they engaged in colourful street theatre. The GLF's \"A Gay Manifesto\" set out the aims for the fledgling gay liberation movement, and influential intellectual Paul Goodman published \"The Politics of Being Queer\" (1969). Chapters of the GLF were established across the U.S. and in other parts of the Western world. The Front Homosexuel d'Action Révolutionnaire was formed in 1971 by lesbians who split from the Mouvement Homophile de France.\n\nThe Gay Liberation movement overall, like the gay community generally and historically, did not welcome transgender individuals. The GLF allowed but was not inclusive toward transgender people from its creation, and the GAA specifically excluded transgender people from its agenda, mission and activism. Transgender communities formed their own organizations, including STAR (Street Transvestite Action Revolutionaries), Queen's Liberation Front (QLF), and the Transsexual Activist Organization. Sylvia Rivera and Marsha P. Johnson founded STAR in 1970 to provide transgender street kids with a free & safe place to live, food, clothing, and an education. QLF was founded by Lee Brewster and Bunny Eisenhower to combat the erasure of drag and transgender visibility in the first LGBT pride march, demonstrating how quickly and fully the gay liberation movement excluded transgender activists despite their key role in the Stonewall Riots and previous LGBTQ activism. TAO, founded by Angela K. Douglas in 1970, was the first international grassroots transgender community organization, and is known for publishing the \"Moonshadow\" and \"Mirage\" newsletters.\n\nBisexual activist Brenda Howard is known as the \"Mother of Pride\" for her work in coordinating the first LGBT pride march; the first Christopher Street Liberation Day March eventually occurred in New York on June 27, 1970. Howard also originated the idea for a week-long series of events around Pride Day which became the genesis of the annual LGBT Pride celebrations that are now held around the world every June. Additionally, Howard along with bisexual activist Robert A. Martin (a.k.a. Donny the Punk) and L. Craig Schoonmaker are credited with popularizing the word \"Pride\" to describe these festivities. As bisexual activist Tom Limoncelli put it, \"The next time someone asks you why LGBT Pride marches exist or why [LGBT] Pride Month is June tell them 'A bisexual woman named Brenda Howard thought it should be.'\"\n\nOne of the values of the movement was gay pride. Within weeks of the Stonewall Riots, Craig Rodwell, proprietor of the Oscar Wilde Memorial Bookshop in lower Manhattan, persuaded the Eastern Regional Conference of Homophile Organizations (ERCHO) to replace the Fourth of July Annual Reminder at Independence Hall in Philadelphia with a first commemoration of the Stonewall Riots. Liberation groups, including the Gay Liberation Front, Queens, the Gay Activists Alliance, Radicalesbians, and Street Transvestites Action Revolutionaries (STAR) all took part in the first Gay Pride Week. Los Angeles held a big parade on the first Gay Pride Day. Smaller demonstrations were held in San Francisco, Chicago, and Boston.\n\nIn the United Kingdom the GLF had its first meeting in the basement of the London School of Economics on 13 October 1970. Bob Mellors and Aubrey Walter had seen the effect of the GLF in the United States and created a parallel movement based on revolutionary politics and alternative lifestyle.\n\nBy 1971, the UK GLF was recognized as a political movement in the national press, holding weekly meetings of 200 to 300 people. The GLF Manifesto was published, and a series of high-profile direct actions, were carried out.\n\nThe disruption of the opening of the 1971 Festival of Light was the best organised of GLF action. The Festival of Light, whose leading figures included Mary Whitehouse, met at Methodist Central Hall. Groups of GLF members in drag invaded and spontaneously kissed each other; others released mice, sounded horns, and unveiled banners, and a contingent dressed as workmen obtained access to the basement and shut off the lights.\n\nIn 1971 the gay liberation movement in Germany, Austria and Switzerland started with Rosa von Praunheims movie It Is Not the Homosexual Who Is Perverse, But the Society in Which He Lives.\n\nEaster 1972 saw the Gay Lib annual conference held in the Guild of Undergraduates Union (students union) building at the University of Birmingham.\n\nBy 1974, internal disagreements had led to the movement's splintering. Organizations that spun off from the movement included the London Lesbian and Gay Switchboard, \"Gay News\", and Icebreakers. The GLF Information Service continued for a few further years providing gay related resources. GLF branches had been set up in some provincial British towns (e.g., Bradford, Bristol, Leeds, and Leicester) and some survived for a few years longer. The Leicester group founded by Jeff Martin was noted for its involvement in the setting up of the local \"Gayline\", which is still active today and has received funding from the National Lottery. They also carried out a high-profile campaign against the local paper, the \"Leicester Mercury\", which refused to advertise Gayline's services at the time.\n\nFrom 1970 activists protested the classification of homosexuality as a mental illness by the American Psychiatric Association in their Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, and in 1974 it was replaced with a category of \"sexual orientation disturbance\" then \"ego-dystonic homosexuality,\" which was also deleted, although \"gender identity disorder\" (a term used for Gender dysphoria) remains.\n\nIn 1972, Sweden became the first country in the world to allow people who were transsexual by legislation to surgically change their sex and provide free hormone replacement therapy. Sweden also permitted the age of consent for same-sex partners to be at age 15, making it equal to heterosexual couples.\n\nIn Japan, LGBT groups were established in the 1970s. In 1971, ran for the Upper House election.\n\nBisexuals became more visible in the LGBT rights movement in the 1970s. In 1972 a Quaker group, the Committee of Friends on Bisexuality, issued the \"Ithaca Statement on Bisexuality\" supporting bisexuals. In that same year the National Bisexual Liberation Group formed in New York. In 1976 the San Francisco Bisexual Center opened.\n\nFrom the anarchist Gay Liberation movement of the early 1970s arose a more reformist and single-issue Gay Rights movement, which portrayed gays and lesbians as a minority group and used the language of civil rights—in many respects continuing the work of the homophile period. In Berlin, for example, the radical Homosexuelle Aktion Westberlin was eclipsed by the Allgemeine Homosexuelle Arbeitsgemeinschaft.\n\nGay and lesbian rights advocates argued that one's sexual orientation does not reflect on one's gender; that is, \"you can be a man and desire a man... without any implications for your gender identity as a man,\" and the same is true if you are a woman. Gays and lesbians were presented as identical to heterosexuals in all ways but private sexual practices, and butch \"bar dykes\" and flamboyant \"street queens\" were seen as negative stereotypes of lesbians and gays. Veteran activists such as Sylvia Rivera and Beth Elliot were sidelined or expelled because they were transgender.\n\nIn 1974, Maureen Colquhoun came out as the first Lesbian MP for the Labour Party in the UK. When elected she was married in a heterosexual marriage.\n\nIn 1975, the groundbreaking film portraying homosexual gay icon Quentin Crisp's life, The Naked Civil Servant was transmitted by Thames Television for the British Television channel ITV. The British journal Gay Left also began publication. After British Home Stores sacked an openly gay trainee Tony Whitehead, a national campaign subsequently picketed their stores in protest.\n\nIn 1977, Harvey Milk was elected to the San Francisco Board of Supervisors becoming the first openly gay man in the United States elected to public office. Milk was assassinated by a former city supervisor Dan White in 1978.\n\nIn 1977, a former Miss America contestant and orange juice spokesperson, Anita Bryant, began a campaign \"Save Our Children,\" in Dade County, Florida (greater Miami), which proved to be a major set-back in the Gay Liberation movement. Essentially, she established an organization which put forth an amendment to the laws of the county which resulted in the firing of many public school teachers on the suspicion that they were homosexual.\n\nIn 1979, a number of people in Sweden called in sick with a case of \"being homosexual,\" in protest of homosexuality being classified as an illness. This was followed by an activist occupation of the main office of the National Board of Health and Welfare. Within a few months, Sweden became the first country in the world to remove homosexuality as an illness.\n\nLesbian feminism, which was most influential from the mid-1970s to the mid-1980s, encouraged women to direct their energies toward other women rather than men, and advocated lesbianism as the logical result of feminism. As with Gay Liberation, this understanding of the lesbian potential in all women was at odds with the minority-rights framework of the Gay Rights movement. Many women of the Gay Liberation movement felt frustrated at the domination of the movement by men and formed separate organisations; some who felt gender differences between men and women could not be resolved developed \"lesbian separatism,\" influenced by writings such as Jill Johnston's 1973 book \"Lesbian Nation\". Organizers at the time focused on this issue. Diane Felix, also known as DJ Chili D in the Bay Area club scene, is a Latino American lesbian once joined the Latino American queer organization GALA. She was known for creating entertainment spaces specifically for queer women, especially in Latino American community. These places included gay bars in San Francisco such as A Little More and Colors. Disagreements between different political philosophies were, at times, extremely heated, and became known as the lesbian sex wars, clashing in particular over views on sadomasochism, prostitution and transsexuality. The term \"gay\" came to be more strongly associated with homosexual males.\n\nIn Canada, the coming into effect of Section 15 of the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms in 1985 saw a shift in the gay rights movement in Canada, as Canadian gays and lesbians moved from liberation to litigious strategies. Premised on Charter protections and on the notion of the immutability of homosexuality, judicial rulings rapidly advanced rights, including those that compelled the Canadian government to legalize same-sex marriage. It has been argued that while this strategy was extremely effective in advancing the safety, dignity and equality of Canadian homosexuals, its emphasis of sameness came at the expense of difference and may have undermined opportunities for more meaningful change.\n\nMark Segal, often referred to as the dean of American gay journalism, disrupted the CBS evening news with Walter Cronkite in 1973, an event covered in newspapers across the country and viewed by 60% of American households, many seeing or hearing about homosexuality for the first time.\n\nAnother setback in the United States occurred in 1986, when the US Supreme Court upheld a Georgia anti-sodomy law in the case \"Bowers v. Hardwick\". (This ruling would be overturned two decades later in \"Lawrence v. Texas).\n\nSome historians posit that a new era of the gay rights movement began in the 1980s with the emergence of AIDS, which decimated the leadership and shifted the focus for many. This era saw a resurgence of militancy with direct action groups like AIDS Coalition to Unleash Power (ACT UP), formed in 1987, as well as its offshoots Queer Nation (1990) and the Lesbian Avengers (1992). Some younger activists, seeing \"gay and lesbian\" as increasingly normative and politically conservative, began using \"queer\" as a defiant statement of all sexual minorities and gender variant people—just as the earlier liberationists had done with \"gay\". Less confrontational terms that attempt to reunite the interests of lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender people also became prominent, including various acronyms like \"LGBT\", \"LGBTQ\", and \"LGBTI\", where the \"Q\" and \"I\" stand for \"queer\" or \"questioning\" and \"intersex\", respectively.\n\nA 1987 essay titled \"The Overhauling of Straight America\", by Marshall Kirk and Hunter Madsen (writing as Erastes Pill), lays out a six-point plan for a campaign, which was first published in \"Guide\" magazine. They argued that gays must portray themselves in a positive way to straight America, and that the main aim of making homosexuality acceptable could be achieved by getting Americans \"to think that it is just another thing, with a shrug of their shoulders\". Then \"your battle for legal and social rights is virtually won\". The pair developed their argument in the 1989 book \"After the Ball: How America Will Conquer Its Fear and Hatred of Gays in the '90s.\" The book outlined a public relations strategy for the LGBT movement. It argues that after the gay liberation phase of the 1970s and 1980s, gay rights groups should adopt more professional public relations techniques to convey their message. After its publication Kirk appeared in the pages of \"Newsweek\", \"Time\" and \"The Washington Post\". The book is often critically described by social conservatives such as Focus on the Family as important to the success of the LGBT Movement in the 90's and as part of an alleged \"homosexual agenda\".\n\nA \"War Conference\" of 200 gay leaders was held in Warrenton, VA in 1988. The closing statement of the conference set out a plan for a media campaign: \nThe statement also called for an annual planning conference \"to help set and modify our national agenda.\" The Human Rights Campaign lists this event as a milestone in gay history and identifies it as where National Coming Out Day originated.\n\nOn June 24, 1994, the first Gay Pride march was celebrated in Asia in the Philippines. In the Middle East, LGBT organizations remain illegal, and LGBT rights activists face extreme opposition from the state. The 1990s also saw the emergence of many LGBT youth movements and organizations such as LGBT youth centers, gay-straight alliances in high schools, and youth-specific activism, such as the National Day of Silence. Colleges also became places of LGBT activism and support for activists and LGBT people in general, with many colleges opening LGBT centers.\n\nThe 1990s also saw a rapid push of the transgender movement, while at the same time a \"sidelining of the identity of those who are transsexual.\" In the English-speaking world, Leslie Feinberg published \"Transgender Liberation: A Movement Whose Time Has Come\" in 1992. Gender-variant peoples across the globe also formed minority rights movements. Hijra activists campaigned for recognition as a third sex in India and Travesti groups began to organize against police brutality across Latin America while activists in the United States formed direct-confrontation groups such as the Transexual Menace.\n\nThe Netherlands was the first country to allow same-sex marriage in 2001. Following with Belgium in 2003 and Canada in 2005. , same-sex marriages are also recognized in Sweden, Argentina, Iceland, Ireland, Norway, South Africa, Spain, Portugal, Denmark, Uruguay, Brazil, France, Colombia, New Zealand, Mexico, Israel (though not performed there), United Kingdom, and the United States. South Africa became the first African nation to legalize same-sex marriage in 2006, and is currently the only African nation where same-sex marriage is legal. During this same period, some municipalities have been enacting laws against homosexuality. For example, Rhea County, Tennessee unsuccessfully tried to \"ban homosexuals\" in 2006.\n\nIn 2003, in the case \"Lawrence v. Texas\", the Supreme Court of the United States struck down sodomy laws in fourteen states, making consensual homosexual sex legal in all 50 states, a significant step forward in LGBT activism and one that had been fought for by activists since the inception of modern LGBT social movements.\n\nFrom 6 to 9 November 2006, The Yogyakarta Principles on application of international human rights law in relation to sexual orientation and gender identity was adopted by an international meeting of 29 specialists, the International Commission of Jurists and the International Service for Human Rights.\nThe UN declaration on sexual orientation and gender identity was adopted by the United Nations General Assembly on 13 December 2008.\n\nOn 22 October 2009, the assembly of the Church of Sweden, voted strongly in favour of giving its blessing to homosexual couples, including the use of the term marriage, (\"matrimony\").\n\nIceland became the first country in the world to legalize same-sex marriage through a unanimous vote: 49-0, on 11 June 2010. A month later, Argentina became the first country in Latin America to legalize same-sex marriage.\n\nSouth Africa became the first African nation to legalize same-sex marriage in 2006, and it remains the only African country where same-sex marriage is legal. Despite this uptick in tolerance of the LGBT community in South Africa, so-called corrective rapes have become prevalent in response, primarily targeting the poorer women who live in townships and those who have no recourse in responding to the crimes because of the notable lack of police presence and prejudice they may face for reporting assaults.\n\nThe 1993 \"Don't ask, don't tell\" law, forbidding homosexual people from serving openly in the United States military, was repealed in 2010. This meant that gays and lesbians could now serve openly in the military without any fear of being discharged because of their sexual orientation. In 2012, the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development's Office of Fair Housing and Equal Opportunity issued a regulation to prohibit discrimination in federally-assisted housing programs. The new regulations ensure that the Department's core housing programs are open to all eligible persons, regardless of sexual orientation or gender identity.\n\nIn early 2014 a series of protests organized by Add The Words, Idaho and former state senator Nicole LeFavour, some including civil disobedience and concomitant arrests, took place in Boise, Idaho which advocated adding the words \"sexual orientation\" and \"gender identity\" to the state's Human Rights act.\n\nOn June 26, 2015, in \"Obergefell v. Hodges\", the U.S. Supreme Court ruled 5-to-4 that the Constitution requires that same-sex couples be allowed to marry no matter where they live in the United States. With this ruling, the United States became the 17th country to legalize same-sex marriages entirely.\n\nBetween September 12 and November 7, 2017, Australia held a national survey on the subject of same sex marriage; 61.6% of respondents supported legally recognizing same-sex marriage nationwide. This cleared the way for a private member's bill to be debated in the federal parliament.\n\nLGBT movements are opposed by a variety of individuals and organizations. They may have a personal, moral, political or religious objection to gay rights, homosexual relations or gay people. Opponents say same-sex relationships are not marriages, that legalization of same-sex marriage will open the door for the legalization of polygamy, that it is unnatural and that it encourages unhealthy behavior. Some social conservatives believe that all sexual relationships with people other than an opposite-sex spouse undermines the traditional family and that children should be reared in homes with both a father and a mother. As society has become more accepting of homosexuality, there therefore has also been the emergence of many groups that desire to end homosexuality; during the 1990s, one of the best known groups that was established with this goal is the ex-gay movement.\n\nSome people worry that gay rights conflict with individuals' freedom of speech, religious freedoms in the workplace, and the ability to run churches, charitable organizations and other religious organizations that hold opposing social and cultural views to LGBT rights. There is also concern that religious organizations might be forced to accept and perform same-sex marriages or risk losing their tax-exempt status.\n\nEric Rofes author of the book, \"A Radical Rethinking of Sexuality and Schooling: Status Quo or Status Queer?\", argues that the inclusion of teachings on homosexuality in public schools will play an important role in transforming public ideas about lesbian and gay individuals. As a former teacher in the public school system, Rofes recounts how he was fired from his teaching position after making the decision to come out as gay. As a result of the stigma that he faced as a gay teacher he emphasizes the necessity of the public to take radical approaches to making significant changes in public attitudes about homosexuality. According to Rofes, radical approaches are grounded in the belief that \"something fundamental needs to be transformed for authentic and sweeping changes to occur.\"The radical approaches proposed by Rofes have been met with strong opposition from anti-gay rights activists such as John Briggs. Former California senator, John Briggs proposed Proposition 6, a ballot initiative that would require that all California state public schools fire any gay or lesbian teachers or counselors, along with any faculty that displayed support for gay rights in an effort to prevent what he believe to be \" the corruption of the children's minds\". The exclusion of homosexuality from the sexual education curriculum, in addition to the absence of sexual counseling programs in public schools, has resulted in increased feelings of isolation and alienation for gay and lesbian students who desire to have gay counseling programs that will help them come to terms with their sexual orientation. Eric Rofes founder of youth homosexual programs, such as Out There and Committee for Gay Youth, stresses the importance of having support programs that help youth learn to identify with their sexual orientation.\n\nDavid Campos, author of the book, \"Sex, Youth, and Sex Education: A Reference Handbook\", illuminates the argument proposed by proponents of sexual education programs in public schools. Many gay rights supporters argue that teachings about the diverse sexual orientations that exist outside of heterosexuality are pertinent to creating students that are well informed about the world around them. However, Campos also acknowledges that the sex education curriculum alone cannot teach youth about factors associated with sexual orientation but instead he suggests that schools implement policies that create safe school learning environments and foster support for LGBT youth. It is his belief that schools that provide unbiased, factual information about sexual orientation, along with supportive counseling programs for these homosexual youth will transform the way society treats homosexuality.\n\nMany opponents of LGBT social movements have attributed their indifference toward homosexuality as being a result of the immoral values that it may instill in children who are exposed to homosexual individuals. In opposition to this claim, many proponents of increased education about homosexuality suggest that educators should refrain from teaching about sexuality in schools entirely. In her book entitled \"Gay and Lesbian Movement,\" Margaret Cruickshank provides statistical data from the Harris and Yankelovich polls which confirmed that over 80% of American adults believe that students should be educated about sexuality within their public school. In addition, the poll also found that 75% of parents believe that homosexuality and abortion should be included in the curriculum as well. An assessment conducted on California public school systems discovered that only 2% of all parents actually disapproved of their child being taught about sexuality in school.\nIt had been suggested that education has a positive impact on support for same sex marriage. African Americans statistically have lower rates of educational achievement; however, the education level of African Americans does not have as much significance on their attitude towards same-sex marriage as it does on white attitudes. Educational attainment among whites has a significant positive effect on support for same-sex marriage, whereas the direct effect of education among African Americans is less significant. The income levels of whites have a direct and positive correlation with support for same-sex marriage, but African American income level is not significantly associated with attitudes toward same-sex marriage.\nLocation also affects ideas towards same-sex marriage; residents of rural and southern areas are significantly more opposed to same-sex marriage in comparison to residents elsewhere. Gays and lesbians that live in rural areas face many challenges, including: sparse populations and the traditional culture held closely by the small population of most rural areas, generally hostile social climates towards gays relative to urban areas, and less social and institution support and access compared to urban areas. In order to combat this problem that the LGBT community faces, social networks and apps such as Moovs have been created for \"LGBT individuals with like-minds\" that are \"enabled to connect, share, and feel the heartbeat of the community as one.\"\n\nIn a study conducted by Darren E. Sherkat, Kylan M. de Vries, and Stacia Creek at the Southern Illinois University Carbondale, researchers found that women tend to be more consistently supportive of LBGT rights than men and that individuals that are divorced or have never married are also more likely to grant marital rights to same-sex couples than married or widowed individuals. They also claimed that white women are significantly more supportive than white men, but there are no gender discrepancies among African Americans. The year in which one was born was also found to be a strong indicator of attitude towards same-sex marriage—generations born after 1946 are considerably more supportive of same-sex marriage than older generations. Finally, the study reported that statistically African Americans are more opposed to same-sex marriage than any other ethnicity.\n\nStudies show that Non-Protestant Christians are much more likely to support same-sex unions than Protestants; 63% of African Americans claim that they are Baptist or Protestant, whereas only 30% of white Americans are. Religion, as measured by individuals' religious affiliations, behaviors, and beliefs, has a lot of influence in structuring same-sex union attitudes and consistently influences opinions about homosexuality. The most liberal attitudes are generally reflected by Jews, liberal Protestants, and people who are not affiliated with religion. This is because many of their religious traditions have not \"systematically condemned homosexual behaviors\" in recent years. Moderate and tolerant attitudes are generally reflected by Catholics and moderate Protestants. And lastly, the most conservative views are held by Evangelical Protestants. Moreover, it is a tendency for one to be less tolerant of homosexuality if their social network is strongly tied to a religious congregation. Organized religion, especially Protestant and Baptist affiliations, espouse conservative views which traditionally denounce same-sex unions. Therefore, these congregations are more likely to hear messages of this nature. Polls have also indicated that the amount and level of personal contact that individuals have with homosexual individuals and traditional morality affects attitudes of same-sex marriage and homosexuality.\n\nFiction literature also has an increased role in shaping people's attitude towards same-sex marriages. An original idea appears in Rafael Grugman dystopian fiction book \"Nontraditional Love\" (2008). He describes an inverted world in which mixed-sex marriages are forbidden. In this world intimacy between the opposite sexes is rejected, world history and the classics of world literature have been falsified in order to support the ideology of the homosexual world (in this world same-sex love is a traditional love). At the heart of the novel is a love story between a man and a woman who unfortunately were born as heterosexuals in a homosexual world and they forced to hide their feelings and their sexual orientation. For a homosexual society love between man and women is a non-traditional love. Underlying this story is the idea that society should be tolerant and accepting and respect the right of every person to be themselves. It is unusual approach that supports human rights of all people and same-sex marriages.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14045038", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14045038", "title": "Late Fragment", "text": "Late Fragment\n\nLate Fragment is a 2007 Canadian interactive cinema production, written and directed by Daryl Cloran, Anita Doron and Mateo Guez. It is North America's first interactive feature film. The project is a co-production of Canadian Film Centre and the National Film Board of Canada.\n\nThree strangers lives are fractured by thoughts and acts of seething violence. In this interactive feature film, viewers unravel their interlocked stories with a simple click.\n\n\"Late Fragment\" had its world premiere at the 2007 Toronto International Film Festival and screened next at Montreal's Festival du Nouveau Cinéma.\n\n"}
{"id": "27478537", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27478537", "title": "Leggett inequality", "text": "Leggett inequality\n\nThe Leggett inequalities, named for Anthony James Leggett, who derived them, are a related pair of mathematical expressions concerning the correlations of properties of entangled particles. (As published by Leggett, the inequalities were exemplified in terms of relative angles of elliptical and linear polarizations.) They are fulfilled by a large class of physical theories based on particular non-local and realistic assumptions, that may be considered to be plausible or intuitive according to common physical reasoning.\n\nThe Leggett inequalities are violated by quantum mechanical theory. The results of experimental tests in 2007 and 2010 have shown agreement with quantum mechanics rather than the Leggett inequalities. Given that experimental tests of Bell's inequalities have ruled out local realism in quantum mechanics, the violation of Leggett's inequalities is considered to have falsified realism in quantum mechanics. In quantum mechanics \"realism\" means \"notion that physical systems possess complete sets of definite values for various parameters prior to, and independent of, measurement\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "587163", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=587163", "title": "Light-time correction", "text": "Light-time correction\n\nLight-time correction is a displacement in the \"apparent position\" of a celestial object from its \"true position\" (or \"geometric position\") caused by the object's motion during the time it takes its light to reach an observer.\n\nLight-time correction occurs in principle during the observation of any moving object, because the speed of light is finite. The magnitude and direction of the displacement in position depends upon the distance of the object from the observer and the motion of the object, and is measured at the instant at which the object's light reaches the observer. It is \"independent\" of the motion of the observer. It should be contrasted with the aberration of light, which depends upon the instantaneous velocity of the observer at the time of observation, and is independent of the motion or distance of the object.\n\nLight-time correction can be applied to any object whose distance and motion are known. In particular, it is usually necessary to apply it to the motion of a planet or other solar system object. For this reason, the combined displacement of the apparent position due to the effects of light-time correction and aberration is known as \"planetary aberration\". By convention, light-time correction is not applied to the positions of stars, because their motion and distance may not be known accurately.\n\nA calculation of light-time correction usually involves an iterative process. An approximate light-time is calculated by dividing the object's geometric distance from Earth by the speed of light. Then the object's velocity is multiplied by this approximate light-time to determine its approximate displacement through space during that time. Its previous position is used to calculate a more precise light-time. This process is repeated as necessary. For planetary motions, a few (3–5) iterations are sufficient to match the accuracy of the underlying ephemerides.\n\nThe effect of the finite speed of light on observations of celestial objects was first recognised by Ole Rømer in 1675, during a series of observations of eclipses of the moons of Jupiter. He found that the interval between eclipses was less when Earth and Jupiter are approaching each other, and more when they are moving away from each other. He correctly deduced that this difference was caused by the appreciable time it took for light to travel from Jupiter to the observer on Earth.\n\n"}
{"id": "38355242", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38355242", "title": "Memoria Abierta", "text": "Memoria Abierta\n\nMemória Abierta is an alliance of Argentine human rights organizations that promotes the memory of recent human rights violations, actions of resistance and struggles for truth and justice. It contributes to the promotion of human rights and seeks to promote reflection on the present.\n\nIt was created in 1999 and is currently composed of eight human rights organizations: Permanent Assembly for Human Rights, Buena Memoria Civil Association, , and Puente 12 Victims' Tribute Commission, Commission for Memory, Truth and Justice of the Northern Zone, Relatives of Disappeared and Arrested for Political Reasons, Historical and Social Memory Foundation of Argentina, Mothers of the Plaza de Mayo - Founding Line and Service Peace and Justice.\n\nIn 1999, a group of human rights organizations began to meet, seeking to participate in a coordinated way in local and national initiatives in favor of the memory of the last dictatorship in Argentina. The main objective was to contribute to the elaboration of the memory of what happened during State terrorism and to the construction of a later democracy to strengthen and promote respect for human rights. The participating organizations came together with the conviction that a joint action would make them stronger in their struggle.\n\nThe initial work of Memoria Abierta included actions aimed at founding a Memory Museum, an extensive program of archival treatment of historical-institutional documents of human rights organizations and the construction of an Oral Archive of testimonies in film format on State terrorism. Later on were added works towards the task of systematization of photographs in a Photographic Archive and the production resources for the visualization of spaces of repression and resistance and their transformation into memory sites.\n\nMemoria Abierta participated in the founding of the International Coalition of Sites of Conscience. In this space, coordinates the Latin American and Caribbean Network of Sites of Memory promoting the development of initiatives that stimulate reflection on human rights violations committed in these countries and their consequences in the present.\n\nMemoria Abierta implements a documentary treatment program. In this framework, it established common guidelines and standards for the cataloging and standardization of the different archives it gathers (documentaries, photographic, audiovisual). It applies international standards of description and a specialized Thesauri on Human Rights.\n\nThe Oral Archive of Memoria Abierta produces and gives access to testimonies related to the period of State terrorism, to the social and political life of the 1960s and 1970s and to the different actions promoted by human rights organizations and civil society in the search for truth and justice. It is composed of interviews to people whose lives have been affected in various ways by state terrorism. These testimonies are ordered, cataloged and arranged for public consultation in order to facilitate the study and interpretation of Argentine recent past from the point of view of the actors involved.\n\nThe Memoria Abierta archives were included in the \"Memory of the World\" Register of the UNESCO as part of the \"Documentary Heritage on Human Rights in Argentina for the period 1976-1983. Archives for Truth, Memory and Justice in the face of State terrorism\".\n\nIt produces tools that make \"visible\" the sites used by repression. Identifies together with local counterparts, Clandestine Detention Centers in the Argentine territory and collaborates in the recovery processes of these places to turn them into memory sites. \n\nMemoria Abierta elaborates different types of resources that are regularly incorporated into the processes of judging the crimes of the dictatorship since the mid-2000s, at the request of the investigating magistrates or courts that are involved in oral and public trials in different parts of the country. Memoria Abierta also participate in judicial investigations through expert reports, archival advice and the supply of documentation requested by the courts\n\nMemoria Abierta works in partnership to rebuild social trust and promote cooperation within civil society and with state entities in a process of strengthening democratic institutions. It maintains different links and develops projects and activities with different organizations with the objective of exchanging and sharing their experience and work methodologies, as well as the characteristics of the Argentine process of truth and justice with other transitional processes of the world.\n\nIn this context, it shares strategies, lessons learned and specific methodologies related to the organization and preservation of archives (including oral archives), to topographic research with different sites within Argentina, in the region and in different countries of the world. ,\n\nThe institutions that make up the Latin American and Caribbean Network, which Memoria Abierta has been coordinating since 2006, are working to recover and construct collective reports on the serious violations of human rights and resistance in the region during the recent past, in periods of State terrorism, internal armed conflict and high levels of impunity, with the aim of promoting democracy and guarantees of non-repetition. The Latin American and Caribbean Network of Memory Sites develops projects, initiatives, joint trainings that seek to strengthen the integration between institutions with similar perspectives. \n"}
{"id": "36410575", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36410575", "title": "Mental Deficiency Act 1913", "text": "Mental Deficiency Act 1913\n\nThe Mental Deficiency Act 1913 was an act of the United Kingdom which made provisions for the institutional treatment of people deemed to be \"feeble-minded\" and \"moral defectives\". \"It proposed an institutional separation so that mental defectives should be taken out of Poor Law institutions and prisons into newly established colonies.\"\n\nThe Idiots Act 1886 made the legal distinction between \"idiots\" and \"imbeciles\". It contained educational provisions for the needs of people deemed to be in these categories. In 1904 the Royal Commission on the Care and Control of the Feeble-Minded was set up with the warrant \"to consider the existing methods of dealing with idiots and epileptics, and with imbecile, feeble-minded, or defective persons not certified under the Lunacy Laws... to report as to the amendments in the law or other measures which should be adopted in the matter\". The Commission returned a lengthy report in 1908 which estimated that of a population of 32,527,843 British inhabitants 149,628 people (0.46%) were considered \"mentally defective\". It recommended the establishment of a board of control which would oversee local authority efforts aimed at \"the well-being of the mentally defective\".\n\nWinston Churchill spoke of the need to introduce compulsory labour camps for \"mental defectives\" in the House of Commons in February 1911. In May 1912 a Private Members' Bill entitled the \"Feeble-Minded Control Bill\" was introduced in the House of Commons, which called for the implementation of the Royal Commission's conclusions. It rejected sterilisation of the \"feeble-minded\", but had provision for registration and segregation. One of the few voices raised against the bill was that of G.K. Chesterton who ridiculed the bill, calling it the \"Feeble-Minded Bill, both for brevity and because the description is strictly accurate\". The bill was withdrawn, but a government bill introduced on 10 June 1912 replaced it, which would become the Mental Deficiency Act 1913.\n\nThe bill was passed in 1913 with only three MPs voting against it. One of them was Josiah Wedgwood, who said of it, \"It is a spirit of the Horrible Eugenic Society which is setting out to breed up the working class as though they were cattle.\" The new act repealed the Idiots Act 1886 and followed the recommendations of the Royal Commission on the Care and Control of the Feeble-Minded. It established the Board of Control for Lunacy and Mental Deficiency to oversee the implementation of provisions for the care and management of four classes of people,\n\nA person deemed to be an idiot or imbecile might be placed in an institution or under guardianship if the parent or guardian so petitioned, as could a person of any of the four categories under 21 years, as could a person of any category who had been abandoned, neglected, guilty of a crime, in a state institution, habitually drunk, or unable to be schooled.\n\nAt the height of operation of the Mental Deficiency Act, 65,000 people were placed in \"colonies\" or in other institutional settings. The act remained in effect until it was repealed by the Mental Health Act 1959.\n\n"}
{"id": "30637617", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30637617", "title": "Narcissistic mortification", "text": "Narcissistic mortification\n\nNarcissistic mortification is \"the primitive terror of self dissolution, triggered by the sudden exposure of one's sense of a defective self ... it is death by embarrassment\". Narcissistic mortification is a term first used by Sigmund Freud in his last book, \"Moses and Monotheism\", with respect to early injuries to the ego/self. The concept has been widely employed in ego psychology and also contributed to the roots of self psychology.\n\nWhen narcissistic mortification is experienced for the first time, it may be defined as a sudden loss of control over external or internal reality, or both. This produces strong emotions of terror while at the same time narcissistic libido (also known as ego-libido) or destrudo is built up. Narcissistic libido or ego-libido is the concentration of libido on the self. Destrudo is the opposite of libido and is the impulse to destroy oneself and everything associated with oneself.\n\nEdmund Bergler developed the concept of narcissistic mortification in connection with early fantasies of omnipotence in the developing child, and with the fury provoked by the confrontations with reality that undermine his or her illusions. For Bergler, “the narcissistic mortification suffered in this very early period continues to act as a stimulus throughout his life”.\n\nAnna Freud used the term in connection with her exploration of the defence mechanism of altruistic surrender, whereby an individual lives only through the lives of others – seeing at the root of such an abrogation of one's own life an early experience of narcissistic mortification at a disappointment with one's self.\n\nPsychoanalyst and author Ludwig Eidelberg subsequently expanded on the concept in the fifties and sixties. Eidelberg defined narcissistic mortification as occurring when “a sudden loss of control over external or internal reality...produces the painful emotional experience of terror”. He also stressed that for many patients simply to have to accept themselves as having neurotic symptoms was itself a source of narcissistic mortification.\n\nFor Kohut, narcissistic injury - the root cause of what he termed narcissistic personality disorder – was broadly equivalent to the humiliation of mortification. Kohut considered that “if the grandiosity of the narcissistic self has been insufficiently modified...then the adult ego will tend to vacillate between an irrational overestimation of the self and feelings of inferiority and will react with narcissistic mortification to the thwarting of its ambitions”.\n\nUnlike ego psychologists, object relations theorists have traditionally used a rather different, post-Kleinian vocabulary to describe the early woundings of narcissistic mortification. Recently however such theorists have found analogies between Freud's emphasis on the sensitivity of the ego to narcissistic humiliation and mortification, and the views of Bion on 'nameless dread' or Winnicott's on the original agonies of the breakdown of childhood consciousness. At the same time ego psychologists have been increasingly prepared to see narcissistic mortification as occurring in the context of early relations to objects.\n\nAn individual’s experience of mortification may be accompanied by both physical and psychological sensations. Physical sensations such as: burning, painful tingling over the body, pain in the chest that slowly expands and spreads throughout the torso, dizziness, nausea, vomiting, sweating, blanching, coldness and numbness can be experienced by the individual suffering from mortification. The psychological sensations described are feeling shocked, exposed, and humiliated. Descriptions of this experience can be, for example: “It feels like I won’t survive” and “I have the absolute conviction that he or she hates me and it’s my fault”. These sensations are always followed by shock, although they may have happened on various occasions, they also prompt the need for the individual suffering to do something both internally and externally, to effect a positive self-image in the eyes of their narcissistic object. Narcissistic mortification is extreme in its intensity, global nature, and its lack of perspective, causing the anxiety associated with it to become traumatic.\n\nIn Eidelberg's view, a normal individual would usually be able to avoid being overwhelmed by internal needs because they recognize these urges in time to bring about their partial discharge. However, Eidelberg does not view occasional outbursts of temper as a sign of disorder. An individual experiencing pathological narcissistic mortification is prone to become fixated on infantile objects, resulting in an infantile form of discharge. He or she cannot be satisfied by the partial discharge of this energy, which takes place on an unconscious level, and this in turn interferes with their well-being. According to Eidelberg, the denial of an infantile narcissistic mortification can be responsible for many defensive mechanisms.\n\nNarcissistic mortification can be: \n\nTo escape the narcissistic mortification of accepting their own dependency needs, cult leaders may resort to delusions of omnipotence. Their continuing shame and underlying guilt, and their repudiation of dependency, obliges such leaders to use seduction and manic defenses to externalize and locate dependency needs in others, thus making their followers controllable through a displaced sense of shame.\n\nBecause in western culture death is sometimes seen as the ultimate loss of control, fear of it may produce death anxiety in the form of a sense of extreme shame or narcissistic mortification. The shame in this context is produced by the loss of stoicism, productivity, and control, aspects that are highly valued by society and aspects that are taken away as one ages. Death according to Darcy Harris, 'is the ultimate narcissistic wound, bringing about not just the annihilation of self, but the annihilation of one's entire existence, resulting in a form of existential shame for human beings, who possess the ability to ponder this dilemma with their higher functioning cognitive abilities.'\n\nIndividuals who hold this anxiety are ashamed of mortality and the frailty that comes along with it; and may attempt to overcome this reality through diversions and accomplishments, deflecting feelings of inferiority and shame through strategies like grandiosity in similar fashion to those with narcissistic personality traits.\n\nNarcissistic mortification may also be produced by death of someone close. Such a loss of an essential object may even lead through narcissistic mortification to suicide.\n\nAmong the many motives behind suicidal activities in general are shame, loss of honor, and narcissistic mortification. Those who suffer from narcissistic mortification are more likely to participate in suicidal behaviors and those who do not receive the proper help more often than not succeed. Suicide related to narcissistic mortification is different from normal sorrow in that it is associated with deep rooted self-contempt and self-hatred.\n\nAccording to a paper presented by Mary Libbey, \"On Narcissistic Mortification\", presented at the 2006 Shame Symposium, long-term goal of psychoanalytic treatment for those who suffer from narcissistic mortification is to transform the mortification into shame. She says by transforming it into shame it enables the sufferer to tolerate and use it as a signal; the process of transforming mortification into shame entails working through both the early mortifying traumas as well as the defenses, often unstable, related to them. If an individual sufferer does not go through this transformation, he or she is left with two unstable narcissistic defenses. Libbey says these defenses are: self-damning, deflated states designed to appease and hold on to self-objects, and narcissistic conceit, which is designed to project the defective self experiences onto self-objects. Both of these defensive styles require a continuation of dependence on the self-object. Transforming the mortification into shame makes it possible for self-appraisal and self-tolerance, this ultimately leads to psychic separation and self-reliance without the need to sustain one's mortification, according to Libbey's paper.\n\nPostmodern Freudians link narcissistic mortification to Winnicott's theory of primitive mental states which lack the capacity for symbolisation, and their need for re-integration. Returning in the transference to the intolerable mortification underpinning such narcissistic defences can however also produce positive analytic change, by way of the (albeit mortifying) re-experience of overwhelming object loss within an intersubjective holding environment.\n\n21st century American analysts are particularly concerned with the potential production of narcissistic mortification as a by-product of analytic interpretation, especially with regard to masochistic personality disorder.\n\nNarcissistic mortification at injuries to self-esteem has been seen as pervading Captain Ahab's motivations in his confrontation with Moby-Dick.\n\nMortification at one's self is seen in Mary Shelley's Frankenstein when the Creature stares at his reflection in a pool of water. This is where he becomes convinced that he is in fact the Creature and becomes filled with despondence and mortification.\n"}
{"id": "31836986", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31836986", "title": "Ophelimity", "text": "Ophelimity\n\nOphelimity is an economic concept introduced by Vilfredo Pareto as a measure of purely economic satisfaction, so he could use the already well-established term utility as a measure of a more broadly based satisfaction encompassing other dimensions as well, such as the ethical, moral, religious, and political. As such, it corresponds to the sense in which utility is often used in economic calculations. Irving Fisher proposed replacing ophelimity (and thus utility as it is commonly construed) with the term \"wantability\".\n\n"}
{"id": "172526", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=172526", "title": "Ornament and Crime", "text": "Ornament and Crime\n\n\"Ornament and Crime\" is an essay and lecture by modernist architect Adolf Loos that criticizes ornament in useful objects.\n\nContrary to popular belief that it was composed in 1908, Adolf Loos first gave the lecture in 1910 at the Akademischer Verband für Literatur und Musik in Vienna. The essay was then published in 1913 in \"Les Cahiers d’aujourd’hui\" in French as \"Ornement et Crime\". Only in 1929 was the essay published in German in the \"Frankfurter Zeitung\", as \"Ornament und Verbrechen\". It was the architect Henry Kulka, who assisted Loos during a reprint of the essay in 1931 in \"Trotzdem\", that altered the original year to 1908 after he consulted Loos, who either didn't remember well or wanted to assume primacy in the confrontation against the Secessionists.\n\nThe essay was written when Art Nouveau—known as Secession in Austria and which Loos had excoriated even at its height in 1900—was showing a new way forward for modern art. The essay is important in articulating some moralizing views, inherited from the Arts and Crafts movement, which would be fundamental to the Bauhaus design studio, and would help define the ideology of modernism in architecture.\n\n\"The evolution of culture marches with the elimination of ornament from useful objects,\" Loos proclaimed, thus linking the optimistic sense of the linear and upward progress of cultures with the contemporary vogue for applying evolution to cultural contexts. Loos's work was prompted by regulations he encountered when he designed a tailorshop without ornamentation next to a palace. He eventually conceded to requirements by adding a flowerpot.\n\nIn the essay, Loos explains his philosophy, describing how ornamentation can have the effect of causing objects to go out of style and thus become obsolete. It struck him that it was a crime to waste the effort needed to add ornamentation, when the ornamentation would cause the object to soon go out of style. Loos introduced a sense of the \"immorality\" of ornament, describing it as \"degenerate\", its suppression as necessary for regulating modern society. He took as one of his examples the tattooing of the \"Papuan\" and the intense surface decorations of the objects about him—Loos says that, in the eyes of western culture, the Papuan has not evolved to the moral and civilized circumstances of modern man, who, should he tattoo himself, would either be considered a criminal or a degenerate.\n\nLoos never argued for the complete absence of ornamentation, but believed that it had to be appropriate to the type of material.\n\nLoos concluded that \"No ornament can any longer be made today by anyone who lives on our cultural level ... Freedom from ornament is a sign of spiritual strength\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45650533", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45650533", "title": "Parijata", "text": "Parijata\n\nThe word, Pārijāta (Sanskrit: पारिजात), – refers to the Indian coral tree, night-flowering coral jasmine, or simply fragrance. But, written and pronounced as \"Parijāta\" (Sanskrit: परिजात) it means - descended from, begotten by or fully developed.\n\nIn Hindu mythology, the celestial \"Pārijāta tree\" is the tree of the universe which is owned by Indrani and planted in \"svarga\" located between heaven and earth, which tree, also known as \"Kalpa-taru\", is believed to yield all objects of desire. This tree is identified with the Mandāra tree.\n\nFrom the Bhagavata Purana, the Vishnu Purana and the Mahabharata it is learnt that the elaborate process of \"Samudra manthan\" of primal waters of the cosmic ocean yielded the \"Pārijāta tree\" as one of the three valuables, this tree, said to have blossomed atop Mount Meru in the garden of paradise and identified with the Indian coral tree, was claimed by Indra no sooner it rose to the surface and emitted its fragrance.\n\nKrishna is believed to have stolen the \"Pārijāta flower\" from Indra’s paradise to which act \"pārijāta-harana\" (removal of the \"Pārijāta tree\" from heaven), which has two forms in the Harivamsa, relates; according to the \"puranas\", at the behest of his wife, Satyabhama, Krishna had uprooted the \"pārijāta tree\" from the \"Nandana-vana\" of Indra and brought it to Dwarka though it has no role in rituals and is not associated with the world of humans, being merely a possession of sorts.\n\nIn Hindu astrology, the word, \"Pārijāta\", refers to a Rāja yoga based on the Planetary Dispositor Principle. This planetary combination called Pārijāta yoga arises if the lord of the sign occupied by the lord of the Lagna (Ascendant) and the lord of the sign occupied by the dispositor of the lord of the lagna both, or if the lords of the navāmsas occupied by these two lords are situated in a \"kendra\" or a \"trikona\" from the \"lagna-kendra\" in their own or exaltation signs. Parasara states that the person blessed with Parijata yoga will be fond of battles, strong-willed, full of determination, fearless, adept and successful, kind-hearted, forgiving and generous, have faith in Dharma and Karmas, a proud possessor and enjoyer of wealth and comforts and the one who leads a royal life during his or her middle and last part of life. Pārijāta yoga is a combination of the Parvata yoga and the Kahala yoga. Gautama Buddha was blessed with this yoga.\n"}
{"id": "27540718", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27540718", "title": "Park51", "text": "Park51\n\nPark51 (originally named Cordoba House) is a development that was originally envisioned as a 13-story Islamic community center and mosque in Lower Manhattan. The developers hoped to promote an interfaith dialogue within the greater community. Due to its proposed location two blocks from the World Trade Center site, it was widely and controversially referred to as the \"Ground Zero mosque\".\n\nThe project would replace an existing 1850s building of Italianate style that was damaged in the September 11 attacks. The original design was by Michel Abboud, principal of SOMA Architects, who wrestled for months with the challenge of making the building fit naturally into its lower Manhattan surroundings: on the one hand, it should have a contemporary design, and, at the same time, it should look Islamic. His design included a 500-seat auditorium, theater, performing arts center, fitness center, swimming pool, basketball court, childcare area, bookstore, culinary school, art studio, food court, and memorial to the victims of the September 11 attacks. It also included a prayer space for the Muslim community, which would accommodate 1,000–2,000 people.\n\nIn late September 2011, a temporary Islamic center opened in renovated space at the Park51 location. In summer 2014, it was announced that there would instead be a 3-story museum with a prayer space, as well as condos, at 49-51 Park Place. The plans were changed again in September 2015, when the owner announced a , 70-story luxury condominium building at the site. In May 2016, financing was secured for a 43-story condominium building with room for an Islamic cultural museum.\n\nPlans to build then-named Cordoba House were reported in \"The New York Times\" in December 2009, at a location that was already in use for Muslim worship. Early response to the project was not pronounced, and one libertarian commentator provided positive coverage.\nThe plans were reviewed by the local community board in May 2010, at which time they attracted some national media attention. Protests were sparked by a campaign launched by conservative bloggers Pamela Geller and Robert Spencer, founders of the group Stop Islamization of America, who dubbed the project the \"Ground Zero mosque\", and a national controversy ensued. Cordoba House enlisted the public relations services of The TASC Group to help mitigate the media attention throughout the controversy.\n\nSome opponents have said that the building itself would serve as a \"victory memorial\" to Islam. Supporters have said that arguments against the building are based on the notion that Islam, rather than Islamic radicals, is responsible for the terrorist attack. The \"New York Times\" reported that Muslim religious facilities previously existed at the World Trade Center itself before the attacks. Opponents have also argued that the project should not be built because polls have shown that most Americans, including most residents of New York State and New York City (though not most residents of Manhattan), oppose it. Most Americans do, however, believe the Park51 developers have a legal right to proceed with the project.\n\nThe project's organizers state that it is intended to be \"a platform for multi-faith dialogue. It will strive to promote inter-community peace, tolerance and understanding locally in New York City, nationally in America, and globally,\" and have stated that it is modeled on the noted Manhattan Jewish Community Center, the 92nd Street Y. The project's sponsors explained that the original name of the center was meant to invoke 8th–11th century Córdoba, in Spain, which they call a model of peaceful coexistence between Muslims, Christians, and Jews. The proposal triggered an intense nationwide controversy, with opponents of the project objecting to its proximity to the site of the September 11 attacks, its scale, sources of funding, or expressing concern that the project's name was intended as a reference to the Islamic conquest of the Christian city of Córdoba. Supporters have appealed to the First Amendment as well as the opportunity for Muslims to demonstrate peaceful Islamic values and for Americans to reassert their commitment to tolerance and diversity.\n\nThe project was originally called Cordoba House, then renamed Park51, in reference to the street address on Park Place. Later, the Imam leading the project introduced some ambiguity by again referring to the project as \"Cordoba House\". The Park51 website then clarified that Park51 is the community center, while Cordoba House is the \"interfaith and religious component of the center\".\n\nCordoba Initiative said the name \"Cordoba House\" was meant to invoke 8th–11th century Córdoba, Spain, which they called a model of peaceful coexistence among Muslims, Christians, and Jews. According to \"The Economist\", the name was chosen because Muslims, Jews, and Christians created a center of learning in Córdoba together. The name was criticized; for example, Newt Gingrich said that it was \"a deliberately insulting term\" that symbolizes the Muslim conquerors' victory over Christian Spaniards, and noted that the Muslims had converted a Cordoba church into the third largest mosque in the world. Similarly, Raymond Ibrahim, a former associate director of the Middle East Forum, said the project and name were not \"a gesture of peace and interfaith dialogue\" but were \"allusive of Islamic conquest and consolidation\" and that Americans should realize that mosques are not \"Muslim counterparts to Christian churches\" but rather, \"are symbols of domination and centers of radicalization\". The opposition to Park51 believes that Islam builds mosques on \"conquered territory\" as symbols of \"territory\" and \"conquest\".\n\nPark51 is often referred to as the \"Ground Zero mosque\". Since it is neither located directly on the former World Trade Center site, Ground Zero, nor primarily a mosque, some news media have advised against the use of this term. The Associated Press suggested several alternate terms including \"mosque 2 blocks from WTC site\", \"Muslim (or Islamic) center near WTC site\", \"mosque near ground zero\", and \"mosque near WTC site\". Cordoba Initiative says the building is not strictly a mosque. Anushay Hossain in \"The Huffington Post\" criticises the use of the name Ground Zero mosque, and says it is \"Not a mosque but an Islamic Community Center\". Jean Marbella in \"The Baltimore Sun\" says the building is closer to a YMCA center than a house of worship.\n\n45–47 Park Place was constructed between 1857 and 1858, in the Palazzo style architecture.\n\nThe stone-faced building, designed by Daniel D. Badger, was originally constructed for a shipping firm of a prominent New York shipping magnate. Its Italian palazzo style was a throwback to a prior time of European grandeur, and was intended to evoke images of economic might. The building is an example of the \"store and loft\" structures that were prevalent in the dry goods warehouse districts of Lower Manhattan.\n\nThe building was one of only a few stand-alone structures in southern Tribeca that were nominated – but never designated – as individual landmarks, during an effort in the 1980s to create a Tribeca historic district. In September 1989, the Commission had held public hearings and considered the building for landmark status, but it never acted on the matter, and the building was \"calendared\" ever since. By August 2010, city building records reflected that out of a group of 29 buildings that had been proposed for historic landmark designation in 1989, including 45–47 Park Place, twenty-three had been deemed landmarks and six were pending. The pending applications included 45–47 Park Place. At that point, New York City had more than 11,000 landmarked buildings.\n\nMuslims had a presence in Lower Manhattan for many years prior to the September 11, 2001, attacks. At least two mosques existed near the World Trade Center, and several designated Muslim prayer rooms existed within the World Trade Center buildings.\n\nDuring the September 11 attacks, the then-five-story building at 45–47 Park Place, between West Broadway and Church Street, was severely damaged. When United Airlines Flight 175 struck the South Tower of the World Trade Center, part of the plane's landing gear, engine and fuselage came out the north side of the tower and crashed through the roof of 45–47 Park Place, and through two of its floors. The plane parts destroyed three floor beams, and severely compromised the building's internal structure. The damage was not immediately noticed during an exterior assessment. It was later discovered during an interior assessment. In April 2013, the New York Police Department announced that surveyors inspecting the building had discovered a wide piece, long airplane part complete with Boeing identification number wedged in an wide alley between 51 Park and 50 Murray Street. Initially officials thought it was part of the landing gear but Boeing confirmed it was the trailing edge flap actuation support structure of an airplane flap from a Boeing 767, the type of jet which hit both towers. A photograph of the piece initially showed a rope around it. Police said the rope was used by an officer who lassoed it to see the identification number. Boeing could not say which specific plane it was from.\n\nThe 45–47 Park Place building, located about two blocks () north of the World Trade Center site, was owned by Stephen Pomerantz and his wife Kukiko Mitani and leased to the Burlington Coat Factory. For years, Mitani attempted to sell the building, at one point asking for $18 million. It lay abandoned until its purchase in July 2009. For several months thereafter, the building was used as an overflow prayer space for up to 450 Muslims, with services led by Feisal Abdul Rauf, an Imam based at the al-Farah mosque in nearby TriBeCa.\n\nIn July 2009, the real estate company and developer Soho Properties purchased the building and property at 45–47 Park Place for $4.85 million in cash. Soho Properties' Chairman and CEO, Sharif El-Gamal, initially planned to build a condominium complex at the site, but was convinced by Imam Feisal Abdul Rauf's idea for a community center with a prayer space. El-Gamal's partner is Nour Mousa, the nephew of Amr Moussa, the Secretary General of the Arab League.\nThe investors in the transaction were the Cordoba Initiative, a tax-exempt foundation with assets of $20,000, and the American Society for Muslim Advancement (ASMA), also a non-profit organization. At the time, Rauf was founder, CEO, and Executive Director of Cordoba Initiative, and founder and CEO of ASMA, and his wife, Daisy Khan, was the ASMA Executive Director. In the Cordoba Initiative's first five years, from 2004–08, it raised less than $100,000. Both organizations were run out of the same New York office. The two foundations proposed to use the property as the site for a $100 million community center modeled after NYC's Jewish Community Centers and YMCAs. They were working on the project with El-Gamal, their co-developer.\n\nThe 49–51 Park Place half of the \"45–51\" parcel was still owned by the utility Con Edison (Con Ed). Soho Properties paid an additional $700,000 to assume a $33,000-a-year lease with Con Ed, for its adjacent attached former sub-station. The plan was to build the facility on the site of the two buildings, as the lease for 49–51 Park Place was expire in 2071. The two buildings were connected internally, with common walls having been taken down. El-Gamal informed Con Ed in February 2010 that he wanted to exercise his purchase option on the lease. Although the price was reportedly estimated at $10–$20 million, El-Gamal said the cost \"is not an issue\". The sale was to be reviewed by the New York Public Service Commission, where it might face a vote by a five-member board controlled by the New York governor's office.\n\nThe specific location of the planned facility, \"where a piece of the wreckage fell\", so close to the World Trade Center, was a primary selling point for the Muslims who bought the building. Rauf said it \"sends the opposite statement to what happened on 9/11\" and \"We want to push back against the extremists.\"\n\nWhile the media widely described the center as a mosque, and the protests were against the mosque, the Initiative's official blog portrayed it as a community center with prayer space, making comparisons to the YMCA or Jewish Community Center. The Initiative said that some services planned for Park51 such as the restaurant and performance center, disqualify it from being a mosque. Daisy Khan, Imam Rauf's wife and partner, in August 2010 also said:\n\nThe official website for the facility had said it would include \"a mosque, intended to be run separately from Park51 but open to and accessible to all members, visitors and our New York community\". By September 2010, the word mosque had been replaced with \"prayer space\". In an interview in July 2010, lead developer of the project Sharif el-Gamal had supported the inclusion of a mosque as needed by the New York Muslim community.\n\nThe Muslim prayer space is planned to occupy two floors of the 13 story building. Besides the prayer space, the Initiative's plan includes a 500-seat auditorium, theater, performing arts center, fitness center, swimming pool, basketball court, childcare services, art exhibitions, bookstore, culinary school, and a food court serving halal dishes.\n\nEl-Gamal said he wanted the building to be energy-efficient and transparent, most likely with a glass façade. The project envisions the demolition of two buildings at 45–47 Park Place and Broadway which were damaged on 9/11. They would be replaced by a glass and steel structure with a new address, 45–51 Park Place. A number of commentators stated that the builders planned either the groundbreaking or opening date to coincide with anniversaries of the September 11 attacks. Khan said in a July 2010 conversation with Media Matters for America that such assertions were \"absolutely false\" and that the construction timeline had not been determined; furthermore, those making such assertions have no proof of their claims. However, in a May 2010 Associated Press interview Khan said that the Initiative may plan for groundbreaking to coincide with the 10th anniversary of the attacks.\n\nKhan also said that it was anticipated that 1,000 to 2,000 Muslims would pray at the prayer center every Friday, once it was completed.\n\nKhan said the project is intended to foster better relations between Islam and Americans. Explaining the choice of location, she said, \"We decided we wanted to look at the legacy of 9/11 and do something positive.\" She added that her group represents moderate Muslims who want \"to reverse the trend of extremism and the kind of ideology that the extremists are spreading\". Pointing to the fact that ordinary Muslims have been killed by Muslim extremists all over the world, Khan also said about the center, \"For us it is a symbol... that will give voice to the silent majority of Muslims who suffer at the hands of extremists. A center will show that Muslims will be part of rebuilding Lower Manhattan.\"\n\nOn May 25, 2010, the local community board backed part of the plans for Cordoba House to be built on the site in a non-binding advisory vote of 29-to-1, with 10 abstentions. The endorsement related only to \"the important community facilities [the project] will provide\", and the resolution indicated that the board \"takes no position regarding the religious aspects or any religious facilities associated with either the Cordoba Initiative or the Cordoba House Project\". The board's chairwoman, Julie Menin, supported deletion of references to the building as a mosque and interfaith center that were in an earlier draft of the resolution, saying: \"I personally was uncomfortable with the language that talked about the religious institution. I believe it's not the purview of a city agency to be weighing in on the siting of any religious institution, be it a mosque, synagogue, or church.\"\n\nThe meeting where the vote was held was contentious. Some of the speakers supporting the project were Muslims who lost family members in the attacks, and were booed by protesters. Some non-Muslim relatives of 9/11 victims also spoke in support, but other family members objected to the project, claiming the location is insensitive.\n\nAs the controversy grew New York City's Landmarks Preservation Commission agreed to reconsider the 1980s landmark application which it had not acted on previously. On August 3, 2010, it voted 9–0 against granting landmark status and historic protection to the building. That cleared the way for it to be demolished, and the new Cordoba House to be built in its place.\n\nThe following day, Timothy Brown, a firefighter who survived 9/11, filed a lawsuit in New York State Supreme Court in Manhattan asking the court to nullify the Commission's decision. He praised 45–47 Park Place, quoting the Commission's own description of it as \"a fine example of the Italian Renaissance-inspired palazzi\" that flourished in the mid-19th century in the area. The suit was filed on his behalf by the American Center for Law and Justice, a conservative public interest firm.\n\nOn July 10, 2011, Justice Paul G. Feinman of the New York State Supreme Court dismissed Brown's case, writing that the firefighter was \"an individual with a strong interest in preservation of the building\", but added that he lacked any special legal standing regarding its fate. Adam Leitman Bailey, the lawyer who represented the Islamic center's developer pro bono, called the decision \"a victory for America\" and said, \"Despite the tempest of religious hatred, the judge flexed our Constitution's muscles enforcing the very bedrock of our democracy.\" Jack Lester, a lawyer for Brown, said, \"We believe the brave men and women who risked their lives have standing to preserve the monuments and historic buildings at ground zero.\" \n\nOn September 21, 2011, Park51 was opened to the public as of renovated space in the Burlington Coat Factory building hoping to replace the building \"in several years time\". Visitors were able to view 160 portraits of immigrant children living in New York during the exhibit called \"NYChildren\", and a modest carpeted prayer room is located in the lower level.\n\nIn August 2011, \"The New York Times\" reported that Sharif El-Gamal, the project's developer, was quietly proceeding with efforts to move Park51 forward, embracing a \"slower, more deliberate and more realistic approach\" than before. However, in April 2014, Sharif El-Gamal announced his plans to demolish the current building and replace it with a three-story museum of Islamic culture. He hired French architect Jean Nouvel.\n\nIn late August 2014, the \"Times\" announced that the original mosque plans would not proceed. Instead, a three-story Islamic museum with a prayer space and condos would be built at 49-51 Park Place, which at the time was the location of a Con Edison building. Con Edison sold the buildings at 49-51 Park Place building. The buildings on the two lots have not been torn down yet, however.\n\nIn September 2015, it was reported by Bloomberg that the owner of the site now instead plans to build a , 70-story luxury condominium building at the site to take advantage of the booming residential real estate market in lower Manhattan. In addition to the 70-story condo at 45 Park Place, El-Gamal plans a three story Islamic museum at 51 Park Place.\n\nOn May 19, 2016, Sharif El-Gamal secured Sharia-compliant financing for a 43-story building for \"high-end\" condos with room for a three-story Islamic cultural museum. A $174 million loan was secured from a consortium let by Malayan Banking Bhd. and includes banks from Kuwait, Italy, and an additional $45 million in financing from Saudi Arabia.\n\nProminent opponents and supporters of the project were found among the families of the 9/11 victims, the American and worldwide Muslim communities, and local and national politicians, making it a divisive political campaign issue in the 2010 midterm elections. The controversy over the project coincided with unexpected protests of mosque projects in other states, leading to concerns that relations between Muslims and non-Muslims within the US were deteriorating.\n\nImam Abdul Rauf promised to identify all financial backers of Park51. Developer Sharif El-Gamal had stated that they will refuse money from groups such as the government of Iran and Hamas as well as any other \"organizations that have un-American values\". \"The New York Post\" stated that initially Imam Abdul Rauf said the project would be funded entirely by the Muslim American community, though later he told London-based Arabic-language newspaper \"Asharq Al-Awsat\" that he would seek funding from Muslim and Arab nations. The latter story was also reported by NBC.\n\nClaudia Rosett, a journalist with the Foundation for Defense of Democracies and a weekly columnist for \"Forbes\", questioned the source of the funding for the project. Some U.S. politicians such as Connecticut Senator Joe Lieberman, an Independent Democrat, and Republicans Peter King and Rick Lazio, asked for an investigation of the group's finances, especially its foreign funding, despite the fact that fundraising for the project had not yet begun. King said: \"The people who are involved in the construction of the mosque are refusing to say where their [$100 million] funding is going to come from.\" Lazio said: \"Let's have transparency. If they're foreign governments, we ought to know about it. If they're radical organizations, we ought to know about it.\"\n\nDr. Zuhdi Jasser, President of the American Islamic Forum for Democracy, called for transparency in the funding of the project, suggesting foreign sources could imply an ulterior agenda. Reza Aslan responded to Dr. Jasser's demand by saying that it was \"absurd\" to assume that overseas funding must necessarily involve extremism. He also said that it would be acceptable to demand mosques to be transparent about funding if the same was also demanded of a Catholic church or a Jewish temple.\n\nMayor Michael Bloomberg said: \"Where does [the money] come from?' I don't know. Do you really want every time they pass the basket in your church, and you throw a buck in, they run over and say, '... where do you come from? ... Where did you get this money?' No.\" The TV news anchor Rick Sanchez said: \"...if you start going into who is giving money to whom ... you have to go to my church. You have got to go to Rome and start asking where the money is going into Rome. And you have to go to the Mormons and ask them, well, what are they doing with their money?\"\n\nVogel and Russonello cite claims that donations \"totaling $900,000, that the government of Qatar and a foundation run by Saudi Prince Alwaleed bin Talal have made to nonprofits or projects headed by Feisal Abdul Rauf\" are involved. They further explore the funding of the project's opponents.\n\nOn the side of opponents to the project, fundings come from the Fairbrook Foundation, the umbrella organization of pro-Israël activists Aubrey & Joyce Chernick.\n\nAbdul Rauf, a Kuwaiti-American Sufi Muslim, was the chief proponent of the project until he was replaced in January 2011. Some U.S. politicians and others voiced concerns about his views. Others, including \"The Economist\" have described him as \"a well-meaning American cleric who has spent years trying to promote interfaith understanding\".\n\nIn an interview September 8, 2010 Abdul Rauf was asked if he would have done anything differently had he known the controversy would erupt. His answer: \"If I knew this would happen, this would cause this kind of pain, I wouldn't have done it. My life has been devoted to peacemaking.\"\n\nThe Stratfor email leaks posted on WikiLeaks identify Abdul Rauf as an \"operational asset of the FBI\", and speculate that the entire project may have been undertaken for political reasons.\n\nCounterterrorism analysts have noted that the developing controversy over Park51 has provided a \"recruitment opportunity\" for radical Islamist groups. According to Evan Kohlmann, the senior partner in the New York-based security firm Flashpoint Global Partners, \"[t]he reaction is, at least on the part of extremists, fairly gleeful – that America is playing into our hands, that America is revealing its ugly face, and that even if it doesn't further radicalize people in the Middle East, there's no doubt that it will radicalize a kind of a key constituency that al-Qaida and other extremists are seeking to covet, seeking to court, which is the small number of homegrown extremists here in the United States\".\n\n\"Newsweek\" quotes a Taliban operative as explicitly connecting increased opposition to the project with increased support for the Taliban's cause. \"By preventing this mosque from being built, America is doing us a big favor,\" the Taliban operative stated. \"It's providing us with more recruits, donations, and popular support.\"\n\nIn 2012, filmmaker David Osit produced a documentary about the Park51 controversy, specifically following the story through the experiences of developer Sharif El-Gamal. The film aired on PBS in the fall of 2013.\n\nPolls showed that the majority of Americans, New York State residents, and New York City residents opposed building the center near Ground Zero, although a plurality or majority of Manhattanites supported construction. In July 2010, the majority of Americans were opposed to the Islamic center. By a margin of 54–20%, American adults were opposed to a mosque being built near Ground Zero, a national Rasmussen Reports poll found that month.\nFurthermore, according to an August 10–11 Fox News poll, 64% of Americans (a majority of each of Democrats (56–38%), Republicans (76–17%), and Independents (53–41%)) thought it would be wrong to build a mosque and Islamic cultural center so close to Ground Zero, and 30% felt it would be appropriate.\n\nA CNN poll conducted August 6–10, 2010, found that Americans opposed the Park51 project by a margin of 68–29%. A majority of each of Democrats (54–34%), Republicans (82–17%), and Independents (70–24%) were opposed. An Economist/YouGov national poll taken the week of August 19, 2010 confirmed these findings. Overall, this poll found that Americans opposed the Park51 project by a margin of 57.9–17.5%, with 24.5% undecided on the question. Democrats (41.0–28.0%), Republicans (88.3–1.7%) and Independents (57.6–21.3%) were opposed to the project according to this poll.\n\nIn addition, by a margin of 52–31% New York City voters opposed the construction, according to a Quinnipiac University Polling Institute poll carried out in June 2010. At the same time, 46% of Manhattanites supported it, while 36% opposed it. Opposition was strongest in Staten Island, where 73% opposed it while only 14% supported it. A higher percentage of Republicans (82%) than Democrats (45%) opposed the plan.\n\nA Marist Poll taken July 28 – August 5, 2010 showed a similar city-wide margin of registered voters against it (53–34%, with 13% unsure), although those in Manhattan supported it, reversing the figures: 53% to 31%, with 16% unsure. An updated Marist poll in September 2010 showed that support for Park51 had grown, with 41% in favor and 51% opposed. Support among African Americans, liberals, Democrats, and residents of the Bronx had increased. Manhattanites remained supportive.\n\nStatewide, by a margin of 61–26% New Yorkers opposed the community center's construction at that location, according to another poll in August 2010, by Siena Research Institute, whose poll question wording was criticized by a writer at \"Slate\" magazine. A majority of both Republicans (81%) and Democrats (55%) were opposed to it, as were conservatives (85%), moderates (55%), and liberals (52%). Among New York City residents, a margin of 56–33% opposed it.\n\nSome polls tried to gauge public opinion of Muslims' right to build Park51 near ground zero. The Quinnipiac University Polling Institute poll of New York State residents released August 31, 2010 found a 54–40 percent majority of voters agreeing 'that because of American freedom of religion, Muslims have the right to build the mosque near Ground Zero'. A Fox News national poll taken August 10–11, 2010 found that 61% felt that the project developers had a right to build a mosque there (a majority of Democrats (63–32%), Republicans (57–36%), and Independents (69–29%). The Economist/YouGov poll taken the week of August 19, 2010 concurred that Democrats (57.5–24.9%) and Independents (62.3–25.2%) believed Muslims had a \"constitutional right\" to build a mosque at the site, but found that Republicans (31.8–53.2%) did not believe that Muslims had such a right. The poll found that 50.2%, overall, supported the constitutional right to build at the site, 32.7% were opposed and 17.1% had no opinion.\n\nThe Economist/YouGov poll also noted that 52% of Americans believe that \"Muslims should be able to build mosques in the United States wherever other religions can build houses of worship\", as opposed to 34% who believe that \"there are some places in the United States where it is not appropriate to build mosques, though it would be appropriate to build other houses of worship\" and 14% who believe \"mosques should not be permitted anywhere in the United States\".\n\nThe prospect of building a mosque close to Ground Zero was offensive to some opponents of the construction project, since the hijackers in the September 11, 2001 attacks identified as Muslim. Newt Gingrich declared: \"There should be no mosque near Ground Zero in New York so long as there are no churches or synagogues in Saudi Arabia.\"\n\nSome relatives of victims of the September 11 attacks said they found the proposal offensive because the perpetrators who committed the attacks did so in the name of Islam. A number said that it was not an issue of freedom of religion, property rights, or racism, but rather one of sensitivity to the families of those killed, in choosing the specific location of the center.\n\nA group of victims' relatives, 9/11 Families for a Safe & Strong America, called the proposal \"a gross insult to the memory of those who were killed on that terrible day\". Debra Burlingame, a co-founder of the group whose brother died in the attacks, said:\n\nThis is a place which is from where almost 3,000 people were torn to pieces by Islamic extremists... it is incredibly insensitive and audacious ... for them to build a mosque ... so that they could be in proximity to where that atrocity happened ... The idea that you would establish a religious institution that embraces the very \"shariah\" law that terrorists point to as their justification for what they did ... to build that where almost 3,000 people died, that is an obscenity to me.\n\nSally Regenhard, whose son was a firefighter who was killed in the attacks, and who has testified before Congress on 9/11, said that the center would be \"sacrilege on sacred ground\", and that \"People are being accused of being anti-Muslim and racist, but this is simply a matter of sensitivity.\" Former NY Fire Department Deputy Chief Jim Riches, whose son Jim was killed, said: \"I don't want to have to go down to a memorial where my son died on 9/11, and look at a mosque,\" adding \"this is all about location, location, location. It's not about religious freedom ... be sensitive to the families.\" Michael Burke, whose brother died, wrote: \"Freedom of religion or expression and private property rights are not the issues ... Decency is; right and wrong is ... [M]any believe that their \"rights\" supersede all other considerations, like what is respectful, considerate, and decent. A mosque ... steps from Ground Zero in a building damaged in the attacks is ... astoundingly insensitive\".\n\nC. Lee Hanson, whose son, daughter-in-law, and baby granddaughter were killed, felt that building a tribute to Islam so close to the World Trade Center site would be insensitive: \"The pain never goes away. When I look over there and I see a mosque, it's going to hurt. Build it someplace else.\" Rosemary Cain, whose son was killed, called the project a \"slap in the face\", and said \"I think it's despicable. That's sacred ground\", and \"I don't want a mosque on my son's grave\". Nancy Nee, whose brother was killed, said: \"It's almost like a trophy. The whole thing just reeks of arrogance at this point.\"\n\nEvelyn Pettigano, who lost a sister, said: \"I don't like it. I'm not prejudiced ... It's too close to the area where our family members were murdered.\" Dov Shefi, whose son Haggai was killed, said: \"the establishment of a mosque in this place ... is like bringing a pig into the Holy Temple. It is inconceivable that in all the city of New York, this site was specifically chosen.\" Cindy McGinty, whose husband was killed, said she hoped that officials would keep an eye on the funding source for the project, adding: \"Why did they pick this spot? Why aren't they being more sensitive? I don't trust it.\" Barry Zelman, whose brother was killed, said: \"We can say all Muslims did not do this, which is true. But they [terrorists] did it in the name of that religion. You wouldn't have a German cultural center on top of a death camp.\"\n\nRosaleen Tallon-DaRos, whose brother died, urged that the mosque not be put on that site, as did Tim Brown, a New York City firefighter who survived the attack. He said: \"The families lost their loved ones to terrorists, Islamic, Muslim terrorists who do not believe in religious freedom.\" Maureen Basnicki, a Canadian whose husband Ken died, questioned the message of the mosque and said that \"this all adds hurt and insult to our injuries.\"\n\nThe building of an Islamic community center near Ground Zero has been criticized by some Muslims. The Ahmadiyya Muslim Community does not directly oppose the building of a mosque near ground zero but views that the sentiments of non-Muslims should not be unduly hurt. They state that there are other places where mosques can be built and they do not see why that particular location has been chosen. The head of the Ahmadiyya Muslim Community, Mirza Masroor Ahmad in London, stated that:\n\nIf a mosque is built at the proposed site, then the Ahmadiyya Muslim Community would like to see churches, synagogues, Hindu places of worship and places of worship of all other religions also built near Ground Zero. That would be a good example of how from an act of evil and terror has emerged unity and peace. \n\nMuslim neoconservative journalist Stephen Schwartz, Executive Director of the non-profit Center for Islamic Pluralism, said that building the center two blocks from Ground Zero is inconsistent with the Sufi philosophy of simplicity of faith and sensitivity towards others and disregards the security of American Muslims. He also criticized what he termed Abdul Rauf's radical and suspect associations.\n\nAnother founding member of the Center for Islamic Pluralism, Zuhdi Jasser, who is also the founder of the American Islamic Forum for Democracy, a group of Muslim professionals in the Phoenix Valley of Arizona, strongly opposed the project, saying:\n\nFor us, a mosque was always a place to pray...not a way to make an ostentatious architectural statement. \"Ground Zero\" shouldn't be about promoting Islam. It's the place where war was declared on us as Americans.\" ... American freedom of religion is a right, but … it is not right to make one's religion a global political statement with a towering Islamic edifice that casts a shadow over the memorials of Ground Zero. … Islamists in 'moderate' disguise are still Islamists. In their own more subtle ways, the WTC mosque organizers end up serving the same aims (as) separatist and supremacist wings of political Islam.\nNeda Bolourchi, a Muslim whose mother died in 9/11, said: \"I fear it would become a symbol of victory for militant Muslims around the world.\"\n\nAuthors Raheel Raza and Tarek Fatah, board members of the Muslim Canadian Congress, said:\n\nNew York currently boasts at least 30 mosques so it's not as if there is pressing need to find space for worshipers. [W]e Muslims know ... [this] mosque is meant to be a deliberate provocation to thumb our noses at the infidel. The proposal has been made in bad faith, ... as \"Fitna\", meaning \"mischief-making\" that is clearly forbidden in the Koran... As Muslims we are dismayed that our co-religionists have such little consideration for their fellow citizens, and wish to rub salt in their wounds and pretend they are applying a balm to soothe the pain.\n\nAkbar Ahmed, Ibn Khaldun Chair of Islamic Studies at American University, while noting that blaming all Muslims for 9/11 was \"ridiculous\", said:\n\nAbdul Rahman Al-Rashid, general manager of Al-Arabiya television, also criticized the project in a column titled \"A House of Worship or a Symbol of Destruction?\" in the Arab daily A-Sharq Al-Awsat, saying:\n\nMuslims do not aspire for a mosque next to the September 11 cemetery...the mosque is not an issue for Muslims, and they have not heard of it until the shouting became loud between the supporters and the objectors, which is mostly an argument between non-Muslim US citizens! \n\nRima Fakih, the first Muslim-American crowned Miss USA as Miss USA 2010, opposed the project on the grounds of it being insensitive to families of 9/11 victims, telling \"Inside Edition\":\n\nI totally agree with President Obama with the statement on the constitutional rights of freedom of religion. [But] it shouldn't be so close to the World Trade Center. We should be more concerned with the tragedy than religion.\n\nA number of American politicians spoke out against the Park51 project. Arizona Senator John McCain, the Republicans' 2008 presidential nominee, said that it \"would harm relations, rather than help\", while his running mate Sarah Palin, the former Alaska governor, wrote on Twitter that \"Ground Zero Mosque supporters: doesn't it stab you in the heart, as it does ours throughout the heartland? Peaceful Muslims, pls refudiate\" (\"sic\")). Other critics included Mitt Romney, the former Massachusetts governor and 2012 Republican presidential candidate; Georgia Senator Johnny Isakson; Maine Senator Olympia Snowe; Idaho Senators Jim Risch and Mike Crapo; Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson; and Minnesota Governor Tim Pawlenty. North Carolina congressional candidate Ilario Pantano said, \"It is about ... territorial conquest. This mosque is a Martyr–Marker honoring the terrorists\".\n\nFormer House Speaker Republican Newt Gingrich said: \"It's not about religion and is clearly an aggressive act that is offensive.\" Commenting on the project's name, he wrote:\n\n\"Cordoba House\" is a deliberately insulting term. It refers to Cordoba, Spain – the capital of Muslim conquerors, who symbolized their victory over the Christian Spaniards by transforming a church there into the world's third-largest mosque complex... every Islamist in the world recognizes Cordoba as a symbol of Islamic conquest.\n\nGingrich also decried the proposed Islamic center as a symbol of Muslim \"triumphalism,\" and said that building the center near the site of the 9/11 attacks \"would be like putting a Nazi sign next to the Holocaust Museum.\" Commenting on what Gingrich said, \"The Economist\" claimed that \"Like Mr bin Laden, Mr Gingrich is apparently still relitigating the victories and defeats of religious wars fought in Europe and the Middle East centuries ago. He should rejoin the modern world, before he does real harm.\"\n\nNew York Republicans who criticized the plan included former New York City mayor Rudy Giuliani, who called it a \"desecration; Nobody would allow something like that at Pearl Harbor... Let's have some respect for who died there and why they died there.\" Congressman Peter King, then the ranking Republican on the House Homeland Security Committee, called it \"offensive to so many people.\" Other opponents included former New York Governor George Pataki and former Congressman Rick Lazio. Gubernatorial candidate Carl Paladino said, \"The vast majority of New Yorkers and Americans have rejected their idea. If a bridge was their intent, why jam it down our throats? Why does it have to be right there?\" He said that if he were elected Governor of New York, he would use the power of eminent domain to stop construction of the center and instead build a war memorial in its place.\n\nNew York Republican Congressional candidate George Demos also objected. He said that the St. Nicholas Greek Orthodox Church, the only religious structure destroyed in the 9/11 attacks, should be rebuilt before moving forward on building an Islamic center in the area, and called for an investigation into the project's financing.\n\nNew York City Council Member Dan Halloran became the first elected official in New York City to publicly criticize the project, \"If we want a nation of peace,\" said city councilman Dan Halloran, whose cousin died on 9/11, \"then peace comes with understanding. And they need to understand that this is sacred ground to New Yorkers.\"\n\nPaul Sipos, a member of Manhattan Community Board 1, said:\n\nIf the Japanese decided to open a cultural center across from Pearl Harbor, that would be insensitive. If the Germans opened a Bach choral society across from Auschwitz, even after all these years, that would be an insensitive setting. I have absolutely nothing against Islam. I just think: Why there?\n\nA Republican political action committee, the National Republican Trust Political Action Committee, a Washington-based organization, created a television commercial attacking the proposal, saying \"we Americans will be heard\".\n\nDemocratic Independent Connecticut Senator Joe Lieberman indicated that he felt the project should be halted, pending further evaluation of its impact on the families and friends of 9/11 victims, project's sponsors' intentions, and their sources of funding.\n\nNew York Democratic Assemblyman of District 92 and Attorney-General-candidate Richard Brodsky said it was, \"offensive to me... raises concerns and bad memories and needs to be dealt with on a human level. The murder wasn't an Islamic crime, but it was a crime committed in the name of Islam by people most Muslims reject.\"\n\nSenate Majority Leader Democrat Harry Reid of Nevada said, \"it is time to bring people together, not a time for polarization, and I think it would be better off for everyone if it were built somewhere else.\" Jim Manley, a spokesperson for Reid earlier had said, \"The First Amendment protects freedom of religion... Senator Reid respects that, but thinks that the mosque should be built some place else.\"\n\nDemocratic National Committee chairman, former Democratic Presidential Candidate, and 79th Governor of Vermont Howard Dean called the project \"a real affront to people who lost their lives\" and wrote \"the builders have to be willing to go beyond what is their right and be willing to talk about feelings whether the feelings are 'justified' or not.\" Dean also argues that most people opposed \"are not right-wing hate mongers\".\n\nDemocratic Representative Mike McMahon of New York's 13 District provided a written statement:\n\nWe have seen very clearly in the past weeks that building a mosque two blocks from ground zero will not promote necessary interfaith dialogue, but will continue to fracture the faiths and citizens of our city and this country. As such, I am opposed to the construction of the Cordoba Center at the currently-proposed location and urge all parties to work with local community leaders to find a more appropriate site.\n\nDemocratic Representative Steve Israel of the 2nd District in New York said in Newsday, \"While they have a constitutional right to build the mosque, it would be better if they had demonstrated more sensitivity to the families of 9/11 victims. I urge them to do so before proceeding further.\"\n\nDemocratic Representative Tim Bishop of New York's 1st District also disagrees with the location, \"As a New Yorker, I believe Ground Zero is sacred ground and should unite us. If the group seeking to build the mosque is sincere in its efforts to bring people together, I would urge them to seek an alternative location which is less divisive. I dispute the wisdom of building at that location, not the constitutional right.\"\n\nDemocrat John Hall of northern New York's 19th District was also quoted as being against the chosen location, \"I think honoring those killed on Sept. 11 and showing sensitivity to their families, it would be best if the center were built at a different location\".\n\nNew York City fireman Tim Brown opposed the project, saying: \"A mosque ... that's using foreign money from countries with \"shariah\" law is unacceptable, especially in this neighborhood\". Brown allied with the American Center for Law & Justice (ACLJ), a conservative law firm founded by Pat Robertson that champions the rights of Christians to build and worship freely. Brown sought to pressure Abdul Rauf to disclose fully the project's funding sources. Peter Ferrara, General Counsel of the American Civil Rights Union (not to be confused with the ACLU), observed: \"The Cordoba Mosque was the third largest mosque complex in the world ... built on the site of a former Christian church, to commemorate the Muslim conquest of Spain. This perpetuated a cultural Muslim practice of building mosques on the sites of historic conquests.\"\n\nMore than 20,000 people signed an online petition for the Committee to Stop the Ground Zero Mosque, and unsuccessfully lobbied the NYC Landmarks Preservation Commission to give the location landmark status, which would have added a major hurdle to construction.\n\nRichard Land, President of the Southern Baptist Convention's Ethics & Religious Liberty Commission, said \"putting a mosque ... very close to Ground Zero is unacceptable... Even though the vast majority of Muslims ... condemned their actions on Sept. 11, 2001, it still remains a fact that the people who perpetrated the 9/11 attack were Muslims and proclaimed they were doing what they were doing in the name of Islam.\" Bill Rench, pastor of Calvary Baptist Church which is located near the proposed mosque site, also spoke out against its construction.\n\nThe Zionist Organization of America opposes the construction of Park51 due to its location, and questions about Abdul Rauf. The Simon Wiesenthal Center also opposes the location of the planned Park51.\n\nSpeaking in his capacity as a \"spokesperson for the conservative Tea Party political movement\", Mark Williams called it a monument to the terror attacks. He characterized the proposed religious facilities at the site as a place which would be used for \"terrorists to worship their monkey god\". Williams would be expelled from the National Tea Party Federation two months after making this remark, for racially inflammatory remarks regarding a later and unrelated controversy.\n\nThe Dove World Outreach Center also held a protest against the building of Park51.\n\nWriting in the \"National Review\", political blogger Daniel Pipes stated his opposition to the construction of any Islamist institution anywhere although he did not object to a truly moderate Muslim institution in proximity to Ground Zero.\n\nNotable British comedian and internet personality Pat Condell criticized the construction of Park51 in a video entitled \"No mosque at Ground Zero\" where he claimed that it was representative of Islamic triumphalism and that the United States was soon on the verge of Islamization and have its freedoms trimmed, as Europe has.\n\nSimilarly, political commentator Charles Krauthammer also criticized the construction, saying that it could potentially serve as a breeding ground for Islamic extremism.\n\nOn August 9, 2010, Greg Gutfeld stated that he planned on constructing New York City's first Islamic-friendly gay bar next to the proposed center. He stated that \"As an American, I believe they have every right to build the mosque. [...] Which is, why, in the spirit of outreach, I've decided to do the same thing.\" He insisted that \"this is not a joke,\" and further stated that the project was \"an effort to break down barriers and reduce deadly homophobia in the Islamic world.\"\n\nProject supporters have argued that the Park51 building would not be visible from the World Trade Center site, and that some victims and victims' families have expressed support for the Park51 project, as well as acknowledging the fact that victims of the 9/11 attacks also included Muslims.\n\nSome relatives of victims of the 9/11 attacks expressed support for the project. Colleen Kelley, who lost her brother William on 9/11, says, the \"irony in the debate over the section of the building that would house a mosque is that one might assume that God (the same God to Jews-Christians-Muslims) would be pleased with any type of effort that involves prayer and service to others.\"\n\nOrlando Rodriguez and Phyllis Schaefer Rodriguez, whose son died in the attack, say they \"support the building of the Islamic community center in lower Manhattan\" and \"feel that it would honor our son and other victims\".\n\nHerb Ouida, whose son Todd died, said: \"To say that we're going to condemn a religion and castigate a billion people in the world because they're Muslims, to say that they shouldn't have the ability to pray near the World Trade Center – I don't think that's going to bring people together and cross the divide.\"\n\nMarvin Bethea, a former EMS worker who was forced to retire in 2004 because of breathing problems caused by working at the 9/11 site, believes racism is a factor in the controversy, He said \"even though my life has changed, I don't hate the Muslims. Especially being a black man, I know what it's like to be discriminated against. I've lived with that.\"\n\nDonna O'Connor, whose pregnant daughter died on 9/11, expressed the opinion that \"This building will serve as an emblem for the rest of the world that Americans ... recognize that the evil acts of a few must never damn the innocent.\"\n\nTed Olson, former Solicitor General in the George W. Bush administration, whose wife, television commentator Barbara Olson, died in the plane that crashed into the Pentagon, has expressed support for the rights of the Park51 organizers to construct the new site. In remarks on MSNBC, Olson said \"we don't want to turn an act of hate against us by extremists into an act of intolerance for people of religious faith.\"\n\nBruce Wallace, whose nephew died as he rushed in to help the victims, says \"the media seems eager to trumpet the feelings of those hurt by the idea of the center. They mostly ignore my feelings and those, like me, who feel the center is an important step for Americans.\"\n\nJudith Keane, whose husband was killed on 9/11, says \"To punish a group of Americans who live in peace for the acts of a few is wrong. The worst atrocities in history found their base in fear of those who were different.\"\n\nTalat Hamdani, whose son was a first responder in the rescue effort and died in 9/11, co-wrote an article supporting the center in the interest of pluralism. She has also criticized the argument about sensitivity arguing that it was more about the legality of the situation and \"our rights as Americans. We are protected under the Constitution. There is freedom of religion.\" Implying that the ban could be the thin edge of the wedge she said \"You know, if it's one faith today, it's going to be another faith tomorrow. That is scary. And to scapegoat the Muslims for the acts of a foreign terrorist, that is – that is hatred.\" She went on \"... if that argument is valid, then, by that token, Timothy McVeigh's actions also makes all Christians terrorists. So, that is wrong.\"\n\nThe anti-war group September 11th Families for Peaceful Tomorrows, released a statement in support of the center, saying \"we believe that welcoming the Center, which is intended to promote interfaith tolerance and respect, is consistent with fundamental American values of freedom and justice for all,\" adding it will be \"an emblem for the rest of the world that Americans stand against violence, intolerance, and overt acts of racism and that we recognize that the evil acts of a few must never damn the innocent\".\n\nTerry Rockefeller, whose sister was killed, said: \"this doesn't insult her at all. This celebrates the city she loved living in. It is what makes America what we are.\"\n\nSue Rosenblum, of Coral Springs, Florida, whose son Josh was killed in the WTC attacks on 9/11, said in reference to the planned center: \"What are we teaching if we say you can't build here? That it's OK to hate? This is a country based on freedom of religion.\"\n\nOn August 13, 2010, in a speech at the annual White House Iftar dinner celebrating the Islamic holy month of Ramadan, President Barack Obama acknowledged the right of Muslims to build the Islamic center. Obama said, \"Muslims have the same right to practice their religion as anyone else in this country. And that includes the right to build a place of worship and a community center on private property in lower Manhattan, in accordance with local laws and ordinances.\" Obama clarified the next day that he was only speaking of legal rights and \"was not commenting... on the \"wisdom\" of making the decision to put a mosque there\".\n\nNew York Mayor Michael Bloomberg strongly endorsed the project, saying that Ground Zero was a \"very appropriate place\" for a mosque, because it \"tells the world\" that the U.S. has freedom of religion for everyone. Responding to opposition, he said: \n\nThe government should never, never be in the business of telling people how they should pray, or where they can pray. We want to make sure that everybody from around the world feels comfortable coming here, living here, and praying the way they want to pray.\n\n\"Democracy is stronger than this,\" he added. Remarking on opposition to the center's location, he said: \"To cave to popular sentiment would be to hand a victory to the terrorists. We should not stand for that.\" Responding to a question about the pain the project was causing some family members, he said:\n\nI don't see an enormous number of people. I was at a fundraiser ... maybe 50 ... people who had lost [family] members. 100% in that room kept saying, 'please keep it up, keep it up'... our relatives would have wanted this country, and this city, to follow and actually practice what we preach.\n\nBloomberg was asked if he was satisfied that \"he is indeed a man of peace given his background where he's supposedly supported Hamas, blamed the U.S. for 9/11 attacks?\" The mayor responded: \n\nMy job is not to vet clergy in this city... Everybody has a right to their opinions. You don't have to worship there... this country is not built around ... only those ... clergy people that we agree with... It's built around freedom. That's the wonderful thing about the First Amendment – you can say anything you want.\n\nCommunity Board 1 Financial Committee Chairman Edward \"Ro\" Sheffe opined: \"it will be a wonderful asset to the community.\" New York City Councilwoman Margaret Chin said: \"The center is something the community needs\".\n\nAdditional New York politicians supported the proposal. These included Manhattan Borough President Scott Stringer, who said \"I'll do everything I can to make sure this mosque does get opened\", and U.S. Representative Jerrold Nadler, who stated that \"the government has no business deciding\". Other supporters included New York State Senator Daniel Squadron, New York City Comptroller John Liu, New York City Council Speaker Christine Quinn, and Public Advocate Bill de Blasio.\n\nNadler remarked that \"a mosque in the Pentagon ... hasn't drawn any criticism\", despite the Pentagon also being a target of the 9/11 attacks. What is referred to as the \"Pentagon mosque\" is, more precisely, a non-denominational chapel which was built and dedicated in 2002 in honor of Pentagon employees and passengers of American Airlines Flight 77 who died in the September 11 attack. Daily Muslim prayer sessions are held there weekday afternoons, and weekly Muslim services are led by an imam from a local mosque every Friday, which means the room can be considered a \"mussallaah\", a sacred space where Muslims \"consistently perform their mid-day prayer when they do not have access to a mosque\". This Muslim use of the Pentagon facility has drawn no complaints.\n\nOrrin Hatch, a Republican Senator from Utah, voiced support of the project on religious freedom grounds. Hatch is a Mormon and cited an instance where a neighborhood tried to prevent a Mormon temple from being built.\n\nCongressman Ron Paul (R-Tex.) published a statement of support on August 20, 2010 to his campaign website defending the Cordoba House's planned Islamic community center. Congressman Paul attributed the controversy over the community center to Islamophobia and neo-conservatives who disregard their commitment to the First Amendment and property rights to agitate voters.\n\nRepresentative Keith Ellison, the U.S.'s first Muslim congressman, supported the center's location on the basis of the First Amendment and religious tolerance, and Massachusetts Governor Deval Patrick also voiced support, saying: \"The sooner we separate the peaceful teaching of Islam from the behavior of terrorists, the better for all of us.\"\n\nMark McKinnon, a former advisor to Republican President George W. Bush, criticized Republican opposition to the project: \"And here we are, reinforcing al Qaeda's message that we're at war with Muslims.\" Another former Bush aide, speechwriter and policy advisor Michael Gerson, agreed that prohibiting the center would \"undermine the war on terrorism\":\n\nThe militants hope, above all else, to provoke conflict between the West and Islam – to graft their totalitarian political manias onto a broader movement of Muslim solidarity. America hopes to draw a line that isolates the politically violent and those who tolerate political violence – creating solidarity with Muslim opponents and victims of radicalism.\n\nMahmoud al-Zahar, a founding member and leader of Hamas in the Gaza Strip, said of the planned Cordoba House: \"We have to build everywhere,\" and \"In every area we have, (as) Muslim(s), we have to pray, and this mosque is the only site of prayer.\" Zahar also said \"We have to build the mosque, as you are allowed to build the church and Israelis are building their holy places.\"\n\nFormer US President Bill Clinton also supported Park51, after noting that many Muslims were also killed on September 11. He suggested that the developers could have avoided controversy if they dedicated the center to the Muslim victims of the attacks.\n\nFormer Minnesota Governor Jesse Ventura gave his support to Park51, arguing that the First Amendment allows for a mosque to be built near Ground Zero. Ventura also argued that denying the right for a mosque to be built near Ground Zero would be similar to removing churches from Oklahoma City, where the Oklahoma City bombing occurred (the deadliest act of terrorism in the United States prior to 9/11), if Timothy McVeigh, the man who perpetrated the attack, was a Christian. Ventura also demanded that opposition to the Ground Zero Mosque should be ignored because \"people need to remember, the Constitution and the Bill of Rights should be written in stone. You cannot subject them to the popularity. They are there to protect unpopular things, like the First Amendment. The First Amendment is to protect unpopular speech simply because popular speech doesn't need to be protected. It's as simple as that. And you can't, you know, bend the Constitution to the blowing winds of whatever polls might say, otherwise it's a worthless, useless document which in many ways they're turning it to that anyway.\"\n\nIbrahim Hooper, Communications Director of the Council on American-Islamic Relations (CAIR), charged that the controversy was \"manufactured\" by \"bigots\". He also asserted that only a vocal minority was complaining. And Nihad Awad, CAIR's Executive Director, said that the opinion of Republican Congressman Peter King \"should not be considered, because his ideas are extreme\". Fareed Zakaria, \"Newsweek\" journalist and CNN host, also strongly supported the project, and returned a prestigious award he received in 2005 from the Anti-Defamation League, saying he was \"personally and deeply saddened\" by their opposition towards the project. He wrote: \"...Rauf, is a moderate Muslim clergyman. He has said one or two things about American foreign policy that strike me as overly critical – but it's stuff you could read on \"The Huffington Post\" any day. On Islam, his main subject, Abdul Rauf's views are clear: he routinely denounces all terrorism – as he did again last week, publicly.\"\n\nThe Muslim Public Affairs Council also supported the project.\n\nThe Anti-Defamation League (ADL), a U.S. Jewish civil rights group that had spoken out against anti-Muslim bigotry, denounced what it saw as bigoted attacks on the project. Its head opined that some of those who oppose the project are \"bigots\", and that the plan's proponents may have every right to build the center at that location. Nevertheless, the group recommended selecting a different location, and appealed to the builders to consider the sensitivities of the victims' families, saying that building the community center at that site would unnecessarily cause more pain for families of some victims of 9/11. As a consequence of their statement Fareed Zakaria the winner of the ADL's 2005 Hubert Humphrey First Amendment Freedoms Prize has returned the prize and the prize money.\n\nThe Jewish political group J Street also supported the construction on religious freedom grounds.\n\nThe New York Civil Liberties Union and the American Civil Liberties Union supported it as well, citing principles of religious freedom. The Interfaith Alliance also supported the project, while indicating that it agreed with the need for transparency as to who is funding the project.\n\nA petition circulated by the liberal political action committee Votevets.org garnered 14,000 signatures in support of the center, including 450 war veterans from the Afghanistan and Iraq wars, and 4,000 veterans from wars from other eras.\n\nMark R. Cohen, professor of Jewish Civilization in the Near East in the Department of Near Eastern Studies at Princeton University, opined that \"The presence of ... mosques like the one planned near Ground Zero, which will be an educational center as well as a place of prayer, is one good way of transcending ... ignorance.\"\n\nRabbi Geoffrey Dennis, of the University of North Texas Jewish Studies Program said that when it comes to the issue of freedom to practice religion in a private sphere, such as on a piece of private property in Lower Manhattan, freedom of religion is virtually inviolate.\n\nBoston University Department of Religion professor Stephen Prothero spoke out against the arguments that Cordoba House should not be built near Ground Zero.\n\nPadraic O'Hare, professor of Religious and Theological Studies and Director of the Center for the Study of Jewish-Christian-Muslim Relations at Merrimack College, argued that prayer leads to peace: \"Build a Muslim house of prayer near Ground Zero? ... Hand me the shovel.\"\n\nDuring a CNN interview, Reza Aslan, a professor of creative writing at the University of California, Riverside, defended Imam Abdul Rauf as \"cited by government's sources in the United States as one of America's most pluralistic peace promoting religious leaders in the country\". He defended the center as an \"American-Muslim\" center similar to the Jewish center built close to it.\n\nDuring the 2010 US Open tennis tournament Pakistan's Aisam-ul-Haq Qureshi said, \"For me, as a Muslim, that's what makes America the greatest country in the world – freedom of religion, freedom of speech. If the mosque is built, I think it's a huge gesture to all the Muslim community out there in the world. I would really appreciate it.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42273256", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42273256", "title": "Philosophy of experience", "text": "Philosophy of experience\n\nThe Upanishadic philosophy of experience expounded by Gaudapada is based on the cryptic references made by the sage of the Mandukya Upanishad to the experience of the individual self of its own apparent manifestations in the three fundamental states of consciousness, and to the Fourth known as Turiya. Turiya is identified with “that goal which all the Vedas declare” - सर्वे वेदा यत् पदमानन्ति (Katha Upanishad I.ii.15), and whose characteristics are not dissimilar to those of the non-dual Brahman (Mandukya Upanishad 7).\n\nPhilosophy, according to Gaudapada and Adi Sankara, is an interpretation of the totality of human experience (\"bhoga\") or of the whole of life from the standpoint of truth, and the object it seeks is the happiness (\"sukham\") and welfare (\"hitam\") of all beings (\"sarva sattva\") in this world (\"ihaiva\"). Experience is participation in an event or connecting with a product of one’s own activities; an individual creates the world of his own experiences (\"dristisristivada\"). Rishi Kutsa Angirasa (Rig Veda I.102.2) draws attention to the fact that no happiness can be derived as relating to the material world of objects without knowing each of the constituents of creation endowed with name, form and colour that have made all objects of faith and devotion. Rishi Kakshivan (Rig Veda I.116.11) points out the subtlety involved in these matters consisting in the fact that the happiness experienced or to be experienced is in the mind and not in the object of faith or pleasure. Participation involves work (effort) and knowledge. Therefore, a Rishi of the Rig Veda prays:-\nHere, the Rishi refers to the experiencing of things (active qualities) and inevitable consequences (beneficial results), and also to the mental modes (factually know) . In a mantra (Rig Veda I.164.32),\nRishi Dirghatamas tells us that he who is engaged in works alone does not know his own form, but he who does and sees actions and knows his form, nature etc., is different who remaining different re-enters protectively in his mother’s womb returns to earth and re-engages again and again in auspicious works and actions. In this manner the Rishi speaks of two distinct experiences – one which is yet to be experienced and the other which is already being experienced repeatedly; the experience which is yet to be experienced is what the Creator does, who creates for creation sake without being concerned about the results of his actions because His actions do not bind Him to anything, who continues to behave as though He is not aware of anything else.\n\nThe ancient concept of Ṛta expresses the idea of a regulative principle in nature and human society; the cosmic energies (Devas), hostile forces (Asuras) and different spirits (Gandharvas and Apsaras), all are subject to Rta. All actions contribute to maintaining the cosmic order in balance through liturgy; the cosmic order is the manifestation of the Ultimate Reality (Brahman) which is Truth (Satya). The Rig Veda (X.85.1-2) celebrates the relationship between truth and cosmic law (Ṛta). The Rig Veda (VII.56.12) also gives the equation of cosmic law (Ṛta) and truth (Satya), it was by observing the cosmic law the rishis reached the truth. \"Satya\" signifies that which is eternal, the supreme, Existence in its own form \"Sat\"; \"rtam\" signifies that which is evident or perceptible, manifested out of the \"satya\", what has come to be in accordance with \"satya\" or that which represents \"satya\".\nThe entire philosophy of the Upanishads, is based on the direct experience of the Vedic people; it is concerned with that knowledge which is common to all experience, everywhere, and not only to some specialized exclusive area of experience. Gaudapada, who rediscovered the Philosophy of Experience and wrote his \"Karika\" on the Mandukya Upanishad, too emphasises upon the impossibility of reaching the highest truth unless the totality of human experience or knowledge are taken into consideration and that the experiences in the waking state are required to be matched with the experiences in the other states of consciousness so that the individual inquiry is extended to the possible source of all consciousness.\n\nAjativada, doctrine that there is no birth or production of substantial or fully real things anywhere or at any time, and therefore no real objective world outside consciousness, is central to Gaudapada who holds that all sensory and mental experience, except the experience of content-less consciousness, is illusion or \"Maya\", which doctrine of \"Maya\" is in conformity with the Vedantic reaches and conclusions regarding the sole ever-existing eternal real entity (\"paramarthatah\"), Brahman, which has nothing different from it, and none whatever outside it (\"advaita\"), whose reality can be known ('experienced') through the cultivated meditative experience of non-dual consciousness. He maintains the doctrine that the universe was not created at all but takes some cognisance at least of the world as real, though it may be for the perfection of mystical endeavour or ethical conduct even though, philosophically, he may regard it as not having been created at all.\n\nBrihadaranyaka Upanishad (II.iii.4-5) tells us that the essence of that which is gross, mortal, limited and defined is the eye, which means that the mental mode associated with comparison is connected with the eye which perceives things and qualities and gives rise to duality and multiplicity i.e. separateness; the eye is the Sun which is the defined but the defined is that which moves within the eye. Gaudapada explores the transcendences by the Self of the three states detailed by the Upanishads and speaks about Vaishvanara, the all-pervading and met with the eye, experiencing the external things; Taijasa which is inside the mind, as experiencing the inner things and Prajna is the mass of consciousness in the space within the heart, all three interlinked by memory as \"I\". In this context, Sankara explains that on cessation of the activity called memory Prajna becomes free from diversity and there is no functioning of the mind; perception and recollection are merely vibrations of the mind; in the absence of these there is merely existence of an un-manifested state in the heart. Therefore, the indescribable state of Turiya, is neither a void nor an unreal illusion without a substratum, and is held to be the all-pervasive source of all entities. Vaishvanara and Taijasa are held to be conditioned by cause and effect; Prajna is conditioned by cause, but cause and effect do not exist in Turiya. Cause and effect spring into being so long as there is mental preoccupation with cause and effect; there is no origination of cause and effect when engrossment with cause and effect becomes attenuated. As long as there is mental preoccupation with causality so long does the worldly state continue; when engrossment with causality is exhausted, one does not attain the worldly state. Everything seems to be born because of the empirical outlook; therefore there is nothing eternal; from the standpoint of Reality, everything is the birthless Self; therefore there is no such thing as annihilation (Karika VI.55-57).\n\nGaudapada begins with the three apparent manifestations of the self – 1) as the 'experiencer' of the external world in the Waking state (\"visva\" or \"Vaishvanara atman\"), 2) as the 'experiencer' in the Dream state (\"Taijasa atman\") and as the 'experiencer' in Deep sleep state or \"susupti\" (Prajna) when there is no determinate knowledge, but pure consciousness and pure bliss or \"ananda\"; the person who knows these three as one is never attached to these experiences. He also describes the Fourth state of the self (Turiya) which is \"advaita\" ('non-dual') and the All. In the Waking state things are imagined as if existing outside, and in the Dream state, things are imagined internally, both of them are illusory creations of the self; truth is that reality which is perceived as the imagination-less cessation of all appearances (\"nirvikalpah prapancopasamah\"). The thing that has beginning and an end is false; the existing of things is illusory; things exist only as far as they merely appear or are related to experience and as merely thoughts with which fools are deluded.\n\nGaudapada points out that the unchangeable reality is the witness behind the three states of consciousness, waking, dreaming, and dreamless sleep, in all these states the Self is ever-present, and though remaining unknown is the unaffected 'experiencer' of all actions and thoughts in these three states. In deep sleep the mind is withdrawn and does not know anything, but it is disciplined and not withdrawn in \"turiya\", existent and all-seeing. When the individual self, sleeping under the influence of \"maya\" ('ignorance'), is awakened, it then realizes non-duality which is beginning-less and endless; this is the way to illumination within one’s own soul to realize supreme bliss. Gaudapada insists that the mind should not be allowed to enjoy the bliss that arises out of the condition of absorption. It should be freed from attachment to such happiness through the exercise of discrimination. When the mind does not lose itself in inactivity and oblivion, or is not distracted by desires, when the mind achieves quietness and does not give rise to appearances, it verily becomes Brahman. The waking and the dreaming states are equally real and equally unreal, real only in relative sense and unreal as compared with the transcendental in which there is identification with Reality, the unchangeable Self. There is no absolute reality of creation, the one infinite Existence appears to be the manifold universe which universe is not a reality but something superimposed upon the Atman. Bondage and liberation, the individual soul and the world, are all unreal. The supreme bliss is the very nature of the Atman, an absolute reality which persists.\n\nPatanjali tells us that experiences of pleasure and pain are the fruits of merit and demerit, respectively; pain is caused by false identification of the experiencer with the object of experience, and the pain which is yet to come may be avoided. The \"experiencer\" is the Atman, the real human nature, and the \"object of experience\" is the totality of the apparent world, including the mind and the senses; so long as the experiencer is falsely identified with the object of experience the Atman cannot be known. Patanjali states – अभाव – प्रत्ययालम्बना वृत्तिर्निद्रा (Yoga Sutra I.10) that \"sleep is a wave of thought about nothingness\", which means sleep is a positive experience of nothingness, when the already perceived objects are not forgotten but as experiences unite themselves to the system which existed at the time of going to sleep, in that state there is continuity of experience and the function of remembering is not reduced to utter confusion. He explains that the mind having innumerable impressions and desires acts only to serve the Atman and is able to perceive because it reflects both the Atman and the objects of perception, it cannot act independently for its own sake. The man of discrimination ceases to regard the mind as the Atman, and moves towards liberation. Distractions due to past impressions may arise if the mind relaxes its discrimination, even a little but can be overcome in the same manner as obstacles to enlightenment, that is, by resolving the mind back into its primal cause through meditation.\n\nPatanjali tells us – तस्य सप्तधा प्रान्तभूमिः प्रज्ञा (Yoga Sutras II.27) that the experiencer gains the knowledge of the Atman in seven stages, advancing towards the highest beginning with - a) the realization that the source of all spiritual wisdom is inside us, and proceeding to b) when attachments and aversions lose their power, to c) complete realization of, and union with the Atman when the objective universe disappears, to d) when the man of illumination no longer identifies the external world with the Atman, to e) when the mind and the objective world ends their services to the experiencer, to f) when the stored-up impressions within the mind and the gunas fall away forever, and finally to g) when the state of eternal existence in union with the Atman is reached. Swami Prabhavananda in connection with Yoga Sutra II.50 tells us that Prana is the vital energy by which we live and all the powers of the body and all the functions of the senses and the mind are expressions of the force of Prana; when the Kundalini is aroused it produces various degrees of enlightenment experienced by the experiencer at seven centers – according to Raja yoga when the mind is attached to worldliness, when it dwells in three lower centers, it has no higher spiritual ambitions or visions and stays immersed in the cravings of lust and greed; the fourth center is the heart dwelling wherein the mind makes one experience the first spiritual awakening and is filled with wonder and awe; the mind reaching the fifth center, the throat, makes one freed from ignorance and delusion; with the mind reaching the sixth center, the forehead, there is the direct vision of the Lord; and when the mind reaches the seventh center at the top of the head, Samadhi is attained. These are the seven gradual yogic experiences.\n\nIn response to his query – \"Which is the deity who experiences dream?\" – Surya was told - अत्रैष देवः स्वप्ने महिमानमनुभवति – \"In the dream state the deity, the mind, experiences greatness (consisting in assuming diverse forms of subject and object)\" (Prasna Upanishad IV.5); the mind is the instrument of the perceiver in the matter of experiencing greatness, and Sankara explains that the individual soul conditioned by the mind only appears to experience things in its wakefulness and in the dream-state. The body and senses depend on ignorance, desire, and the result of past actions, when these become quiet the nature of the Self becomes non-dual, auspicious and calm.\n\nThe common experience of Duality, which contains truth and untruth, is produced by the power of illusion (\"Maya\"), it is only through religious activities that are features of duality – based experiences that the understanding and attainment of the supreme non-dual becomes possible. Gaudapada and Sankara relate \"māyā\" to the Vedic metaphor of hidden (\"gūdha\") Brahman (Katha Upanishad (I.iii.12)). Gaudapada shows that it is only the existent that can appear, the non-existent cannot appear. Sankara tells us that the common experience depends on \"adhyasa\" (cognition of 'that' in 'not-that'), on something superimposed, and which is a transcendental error or \"avidya\". \"Dvaita\" in whatever form is perceived by the mind, duality ceases when the mind ceases to exist and function as the mind. And, Sankara concedes that the \"Samadhi\" experience ('Transcendental Consciousness'), which describes the state devoid of cognitive functioning, will not be established, if the phenomenal self is not considered distinct from the cognitive faculty which faculty cannot be an agent. Sankara insists:\n\nwhich means that a person should firmly ascertain that in himself he is something other than the gross and the subtle bodies. In his commentary on this statement, Swami Chinmayananda tells us that the misapprehension that the products of matter, such as body, mind and intellect, are the Self, is an experience caused by the non-apprehension of the Spiritual Essence; the non-apprehension of the Supreme Self in all its supreme transcendental resplendency, generates endless misapprehensions which are to be removed by invoking knowledge, the direct apprehension of the Self. Unlike Sankara, Ramanuja does not admit a distinction between illusory perception and true perception, for he declares that even in illusory perception, so-called, there is some perception of reality. Thus all experience has its validity. The immediate intuition of God is not the highest transcendental consciousness (Turiya) but rather it is the transcendental experience of God in which there remains the ego as distinct from him.\n\nR.D.Ranade states that the Upanishadic seers throw hints and suggest the way for realizing the Self, only too cognizant of the fact that any description of the great mystic experience by word of mouth would fall short of reality, as much as any mediate, intellectual, or expressible knowledge would fall short of immediate, intuitive, first-hand experience. There is the same gulf between the expression of an experience and the enjoyment of it, as there is between knowledge and being.\n"}
{"id": "145993", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145993", "title": "Prajnaparamita", "text": "Prajnaparamita\n\nPrajñāpāramitā means \"the Perfection of (Transcendent) Wisdom\" in Mahāyāna Buddhism. Prajñāpāramitā refers to this perfected way of seeing the nature of reality, as well as to a particular body of sutras and to the personification of the concept in the Bodhisattva known as the \"Great Mother\" (Tibetan: Yum Chenmo). The word \"Prajñāpāramitā\" combines the Sanskrit words \"prajñā\" \"wisdom\" with \"pāramitā\" \"perfection\". Prajñāpāramitā is a central concept in Mahāyāna Buddhism and is generally associated with the doctrine of emptiness (Shunyata) or 'lack of Svabhava' (essence) and the works of Nagarjuna. Its practice and understanding are taken to be indispensable elements of the Bodhisattva path.\n\nAccording to Edward Conze, the Prajñāpāramitā Sutras are \"a collection of about forty texts ... composed somewhere around Indian subcontinent between approximately 100 BC and AD 600.\" Some Prajnāpāramitā sūtras are thought to be among the earliest Mahāyāna sūtras.\n\nOne of the important features of the Prajñāpāramitā Sutras is anutpada (unborn, no origin).\n\nWestern scholars have traditionally considered the earliest sūtra in the Prajñāpāramitā class to be the \"Aṣṭasāhasrikā Prajñāpāramitā Sūtra\" or \"Perfection of Wisdom in 8,000 Lines\", which was probably put in writing in the 1st century BCE. This chronology is based on the views of Edward Conze, who largely considered dates of translation into other languages. This text also has a corresponding version in verse format, called the \"\", which some believe to be slightly older because it is not written in standard literary Sanskrit. However, these findings rely on late-dating Indian texts, in which verses and mantras are often kept in more archaic forms.\n\nAdditionally, a number of scholars have proposed that the Mahāyāna Prajñāpāramitā teachings were first developed by the Caitika subsect of the Mahāsāṃghikas. They believe that the \"Aṣṭasāhasrikā Prajñāpāramitā Sūtra\" originated amongst the southern Mahāsāṃghika schools of the Āndhra region, along the Kṛṣṇa River. These Mahāsāṃghikas had two famous monasteries near Amarāvati and the Dhānyakataka, which gave their names to the Pūrvaśaila and Aparaśaila schools. Each of these schools had a copy of the \"Aṣṭasāhasrikā Prajñāpāramitā Sūtra\" in Prakrit. Guang Xing also assesses the view of the Buddha given in the \"Aṣṭasāhasrikā Prajñāpāramitā Sūtra\" as being that of the Mahāsāṃghikas. Edward Conze estimates that this sūtra originated around 100 BCE.\n\nIn 2012, Harry Falk and Seishi Karashima published a damaged and partial Kharoṣṭhī manuscript of the \"Aṣṭasāhasrikā Prajñāpāramitā\". It is radiocarbon dated to ca. 75 CE, making it one of the oldest Buddhist texts in existence. It is very similar to the first Chinese translation of the \"Aṣṭasāhasrikā\" by Lokakṣema (ca. 179 CE) whose source text is assumed to be in the Gāndhārī language;Lokakṣema's translation is also the first extant translation of the Prajñāpāramitā genre into a non-Indic language. Comparison with the standard Sanskrit text shows that it is also likely to be a translation from Gāndhāri as it expands on many phrases and provides glosses for words that are not present in the Gāndhārī. This points to the text being composed in Gāndhārī, the language of Gandhara (the region now called the Northwest Frontier of Pakistan, including Peshawar, Taxila and Swat Valley). The \"Split\" manuscript is evidently a copy of an earlier text, confirming that the text may date before the first century of the common era.\nIn contrast to western scholarship, Japanese scholars have traditionally considered the \"Diamond Sūtra\" (\"Vajracchedikā Prajñāpāramitā Sūtra\") to be from a very early date in the development of Prajñāpāramitā literature. The usual reason for this relative chronology which places the \"Vajracchedikā\" earlier is not its date of translation, but rather a comparison of the contents and themes. Some western scholars also believe that the \"Aṣṭasāhasrikā Prajñāpāramitā Sūtra\" was adapted from the earlier \"Vajracchedikā Prajñāpāramitā Sūtra\".\n\nExamining the language and phrases used in both the \"Aṣṭasāhasrikā\" and the \"Vajracchedikā\", Gregory Schopen also sees the \"Vajracchedikā\" as being earlier than the \"Aṣṭasāhasrikā\". This view is taken in part by examining parallels between the two works, in which the \"Aṣṭasāhasrikā\" seems to represent the later or more developed position. According to Schopen, these works also show a shift in emphasis from an oral tradition (\"Vajracchedikā\") to a written tradition (\"Aṣṭasāhasrikā\").\n\nAn Indian commentary on the \"Mahāyānasaṃgraha\", entitled \"Vivṛtaguhyārthapiṇḍavyākhyā\", gives a classification of teachings according to the capabilities of the audience:\nThe titles of these eight Prajñāpāramitā texts are given according to their length. The texts may have other Sanskrit titles as well, or different variations which may be more descriptive. The lengths specified by the titles are given below.\n\n\nAccording to Joseph Walser, there is evidence that the \"Pañcaviṃśatisāhasrikā Prajñāpāramitā Sūtra\" (25,000 lines) and the \"Śatasāhasrikā Prajñāpāramitā Sūtra\" (100,000 lines) have a connection with the Dharmaguptaka sect, while the \"Aṣṭasāhasrikā Prajñāpāramitā Sūtra\" (8000 lines) does not.\n\nIn addition to these, there are also other Prajñāpāramitā sūtras such as the \"Heart Sutra\" (\"Prajñāpāramitā Hṛdaya\"), which exists in a shorter and longer versions. Regarding the shorter texts, Edward Conze writes, \"Two of these, the \"Diamond Sūtra\" and the \"Heart Sūtra\" are in a class by themselves and deservedly renowned throughout the world of Northern Buddhism. Both have been translated into many languages and have often been commented upon.\". Some scholars consider the Diamond Sutra to be much earlier than Conze does. Scholar Jan Nattier argues the Heart Sutra to be an apocryphal text composed in China from extracts of the Pañcaviṃśatisāhasrikā and other texts ca 7th century. Red Pine, however, does not support Nattiers argument and believes the Prajnaparamita Hridaya Sutra to be of Indian origin.\n\nTāntric versions of the Prajñāpāramitā literature were produced from the year 500 CE on and include sutras such as the Adhyardhaśatikā Prajñāpāramitā (150 lines). Additionally, Prajñāpāramitā terma teachings are held by some Tibetan Buddhists to have been conferred upon Nāgārjuna by the Nāgarāja \"King of the Nāgas\", who had been guarding them at the bottom of the sea.\n\nThere are various Indian and later Chinese commentaries on the Prajñāpāramitā sutras, some of the most influential commentaries include:\n\n\nThe sutras were first brought to Tibet in the reign of Trisong Detsen (742-796) by scholars Jinamitra and Silendrabodhi and the translator Yeshe De.\n\nBy the middle of the 3rd century CE, it appears that some Prajñāpāramitā texts were known in Central Asia, as reported by the Chinese monk Zhu Shixing, who brought back a manuscript of the \"Prajñāpāramitā\" of 25,000 lines:\n\nIn China, there was extensive translations of many Prajñāpāramitā texts beginning in the second century CE, main translators include: Lokakṣema (支婁迦讖), Zhī Qīan (支謙), Dharmarakṣa (竺法護), Mokṣala (無叉羅), Kumārajīva (鳩摩羅什, 408 CE), Xuánzàng (玄奘), Făxián (法賢) and Dānapāla (施護). These translations were very influential in the development of East Asian Mādhyamaka and on Chinese Buddhism.\n\nXuanzang (fl. c. 602–664) was a Chinese scholar who traveled to India and returned to China with three copies of the \"Mahāprajñāpāramitā Sūtra\" which he had secured from his extensive travels. Xuanzang, with a team of disciple translators, commenced translating the voluminous work in 660 CE using the three versions to ensure the integrity of the source documentation. Xuanzang was being encouraged by a number of the disciple translators to render an abridged version. After a suite of dreams quickened his decision, Xuanzang determined to render an unabridged, complete volume, faithful to the original of 600 fascicles.\n\nThere are also later commentaries from Zen Buddhists on the Heart and Diamond sutra and Kūkai's commentary (9th century) is the first known Tantric commentary.\n\nA key theme of the Prajñāpāramitā sutras is the figure of the Bodhisattva (literally: awakening-being) which is defined in the 8,000 line PP sutra as:\n\nA Bodhisattva is then a being that experiences everything \"without attachment\" (\"asakti\") and sees reality or suchness (\"Tathātā\") as it is. The Bodhisattva is the main ideal in Mahayana (Great Vehicle), which sees the goal of the Buddhist path as becoming a Buddha for the sake of all sentient beings, not just yourself:\n\nA central quality of the Bodhisattva is their practice of Prajñāpāramitā, a most deep (\"gambhīra\") state of knowledge which is an understanding of reality arising from analysis as well as meditative insight. It is non-conceptual and non-dual (\"advaya\") as well as transcendental. Literally, the term could be translated as \"knowledge gone to the other (shore)\", or transcendental knowledge. The PP sutra in 8000 lines says:\n\nA further passage in the 8,000 line PP sutra states that Prajñāpāramitā means that a Bodhisattva stands in emptiness (shunyata) by not standing (\"√sthā\") or supporting themselves on any dharma (phenomena), whether conditioned or unconditioned. The dharmas that a Bodhisattva does \"not stand\" on include standard listings such as: the five aggregates, the sense fields (ayatana), nirvana, Buddhahood, etc. This is explained by stating that Bodhisattvas \"wander without a home\" (\"aniketacārī\"); \"home\" or \"abode\" meaning signs (\"nimitta\", meaning a subjective mental impression) of sensory objects and the afflictions that arise dependent on them. This includes the absence, the \"not taking up\" (\"aparigṛhīta\") of even \"correct\" mental signs and perceptions such as \"form is not self\", \"I practice Prajñāpāramitā\", etc. To be freed of all constructions and signs, to be signless (\"animitta\") is to be empty of them and this is to stand in Prajñāpāramitā. The PP sutras state that all Buddhas and Bodhisattvas in the past have practiced Prajñāpāramitā. Prajñāpāramitā is also associated with \"Sarvajñata\" (all-knowledge) in the PP sutras, a quality of the mind of a Buddha which knows the nature of all dharmas.\n\nAccording to Karl Brunnholzl, Prajñāpāramitā means that \"all phenomena from form up through omniscience being utterly devoid of any intrinsic characteristics or nature of their own.\" Furthermore, \"such omniscient wisdom is always nonconceptual and free from reference points since it is the constant and panoramic awareness of the nature of all phenomena and does not involve any shift between meditative equipoise and subsequent attainment.\"\n\nEdward Conze outlined several psychological qualities of a Bodhisattva's practice of Prajñāpāramitā:\n\n\nThe PP sutras also teach of the importance of the other paramitas (perfections) for the Bodhisattva such as Ksanti (patience): \"Without resort to this patience (kṣānti) they [bodhisattvas] cannot reach their respective goals\". \n\nAnother quality of the Bodhisattva is their freedom from fear (\"na √tras\") in the face of the seemingly shocking doctrine of the emptiness of all dharmas which includes their own existence. A good friend (\"kalyanamitra\") is useful in the path to fearlessness. Bodhisattvas also have no pride or self-conception (\"na manyeta\") of their own stature as Bodhisattvas. These are important features of the mind of a bodhisattva, called bodhicitta. The PP sutras also mention that bodhicitta is a middle way, it is neither apprehended as existent (\"astitā\") or non-existent (\"nāstitā\") and it is \"immutable\" (\"avikāra\") and \"free from conceptualization\" (\"avikalpa\").\n\nThe Bodhisattva is said to generate \"great compassion\" (\"maha-karuṇā\") for all beings on their path to liberation and yet also maintain a sense of equanimity (upekṣā) and distance from them through their understanding of emptiness, due to which, the Bodhisattva knows that even after bringing countless beings to nirvana, \"no living being whatsoever has been brought to nirvana.\" Bodhisattvas and Mahāsattvas are also willing to give up all of their meritorious deeds for sentient beings and develop skillful means (upaya) in order to help abandon false views and teach them the Dharma. The practice of Prajñāpāramitā allows a Bodhisattva to become: \n\n\"a saviour of the helpless, a defender of the defenceless, a refuge to those without refuge, a place to rest to those without resting place, the final relief of those who are without it, an island to those without one, a light to the blind, a guide to the guideless, a resort to those without one and...guide to the path those who have lost it, and you shall become a support to those who are without support.\"\n\n\"Tathātā\" (Suchness or Thusness) and the related term \"Dharmatā\" (the nature of Dharma), and Tathāgata are also important terms of the PP texts. To practice Prajñāpāramitā means to practice in accord with 'the nature of Dharma' and to see the Tathāgata (i.e. the Buddha). As the 8000 line PP sutra states, these terms are generally used equivalently: \"As the suchness (\"tathatā\") of dharmas is immovable (\"acalitā\"), and the suchness (\"tathatā\") of dharmas is the \"Tathāgata\".\". The Tathāgata is said in the 8000 line PP sutra to \"neither come nor go\". Furthermore, the 8000 line PP sutra includes a list of synonyms associated with Tathāgata as also being \"beyond coming and going\", these include: 1. Suchness (\"tathatā\"); 2. Unarisen (\"anutpāda\"); 3. Reality limit (\"bhūtakoṭi\"); 4. Śūnyatā; 5. Division (\"yathāvatta\"); 6. Detachment (\"virāga\"); 7. Cessation (\"nirodha\"); 8. Space element (\"ākāśadhātu\"). The sutra then states:\n\nApart from these dharmas, there is no Tathāgata. The suchness of these dharmas, and the suchness of the Tathāgatas, is all one single suchness (\"ekaivaiṣā tathatā\"), not two, not divided (\"dvaidhīkāraḥ\"). … beyond all classification (\"gaṇanāvyativṛttā\"), due to non-existence (\"asattvāt\").\n\nSuchness then does not come or go because like the other terms, it is not a real entity (\"bhūta\", \"svabhāva\"), but merely appears conceptually through dependent origination, like a dream or an illusion. \n\nEdward Conze lists six ways in which the ontological status of dharmas is considered by the Prajñāpāramitā:\n\n\nIt is through seeing this Tathātā that one is said to have a vision of the Buddha (the Tathāgata), seeing this is called seeing the Buddha's Dharmakaya (Dharma body) which is a not his physical body, but none other than the true nature of dharmas.\n\nMost modern Buddhist scholars such as Lamotte, Conze and Yin Shun have seen Śūnyatā (emptiness, voidness, hollowness) as \"the\" central theme of the PP sutras. Edward Conze writes:\n\nIt is now the principal teaching of Prajñāpāramitā with regard to own-being that it is \"empty.\" The Sanskrit term is \"svabhāva-śūnya\". This is a \"tatpuruṣa\" compound (one in which the last member is qualified by the first without losing its grammatical independence), in which svabhava may have the sense of any oblique case. The Mahayana understands it to mean that dharmas are empty of any own-being, i.e.,that they are not ultimate facts in their own right, but merely imagined and falsely discriminated, for each and every one of them is dependent on something other than itself. From a slightly different angle this means that dharmas, when viewed with perfected gnosis, reveal an own-being which is identical with emptiness, i.e in their own-being they are empty.\n\nThe PP sutras commonly use apophatic statements to express the nature of reality as seen by Prajñāpāramitā. A common trope in the Prajñāpāramitā sutras is the negation of a previous statement in the form 'A is not A, therefore it is A', or more often negating only a part of the statement as in, “XY is a Y-less XY”. Japanese Buddhologist, Hajime Nakamura, calls this negation the 'logic of not' (\"na prthak\"). An example from the Diamond sutra of this use of negation is:\n\nThe rationale behind this form is the juxtaposition of conventional truth with ultimate truth as taught in the Buddhist two truths doctrine. The negation of conventional truth is supposed to expound the ultimate truth of the emptiness (Śūnyatā) of all reality - the idea that nothing has an ontological essence and all things are merely conceptual, without substance. \n\nThe PP sutras state that dharmas should not be conceptualized either as existent, nor as non existent, and use negation to highlight this: \"in the way in which dharmas exist (\"saṃvidyante\"), just so do they not exist (\"asaṃvidyante\")\".\n\nThe PP sutras commonly state that all dharmas (phenomena), are in some way like an illusion (\"māya\"), like a dream (\"svapna\") and like a mirage. The \"Diamond Sutra\" states: \n\nEven the highest Buddhist goals like Buddhahood and Nirvana are to be seen in this way, thus the highest wisdom or prajña is a type of spiritual knowledge which sees all things as illusory. As Subhuti in the 8000 line PP sutra states:\n\nThis is connected to the impermanence and insubstantial nature of dharmas. The PP sutras give the simile of a magician (\"māyākāra\": 'illusion-maker') who, when seemingly killing his illusory persons by cutting off their heads, really kills nobody and compare it to the bringing of beings to awakening (by 'cutting off' the conceptualization of self view; Skt: \"ātmadṛṣṭi chindati\") and the fact that this is also ultimately like an illusion, because their aggregates \"are neither bound nor released\". The illusion then, is the conceptualization and mental fabrication of dharmas as existing or not existing, as arising or not arising. Prajñāpāramitā sees through this illusion, being empty of concepts and fabrications. \n\nPerceiving dharmas and beings like an illusion (\"māyādharmatām\") is termed the \"great armor\" (\"mahāsaṃnaha\") of the Bodhisattva, who is also termed the 'illusory man' (\"māyāpuruṣa\").\n\nAccording to Paul Williams, another major theme of the PP sutras is \"the phenomenon of laudatory self reference – the lengthy praise of the sutra itself, the immense merits to be obtained from treating even a verse of it with reverence, and the nasty penalties which will accrue in accordance with karma to those who denigrate the scripture.\"\n\nAccording to Edward Conze, the PP sutras added much new doctrinal material in the later layers and the larger texts. Conze lists the later accretions as:\n\n\nThe Prajnaparamita is often personified as a \"bodhisattvadevi\" (female bodhisattva). Artifacts from Nalanda depict the Prajnaparamita personified as a deity. The depiction of Prajnaparamita as a Yidam deity can also be found in ancient Java and Cambodian art.\n\nMahayana Buddhism took root in ancient Java Sailendra court in the 8th century CE. The Mahayana reverence of female buddhist deity started with the cult of Tara enshrined in the 8th century Kalasan temple in Central Java. Some of Prajnaparamita's important functions and attributes can be traced to those of the goddess Tara. Tara and Prajnaparamita are both referred to as mothers of all Buddhas, since Buddhas are born from wisdom. The Sailendra dynasty was also the ruling family of Srivijaya in Sumatra. During the reign of the third Pala king Devapala (815-854) in India, Srivijaya Maharaja Balaputra of Sailendras also constructed one of Nalanda’s main monasteries in India itself. Thereafter manuscript editions of the \"Ashtasahasrika Prajnaparamita Sutra\" circulating in Sumatra and Java instigated the cult of the Goddess of Transcendent Wisdom.\n\nIn the 13th century, the tantric buddhism gained royal patronage of king Kertanegara of Singhasari, and thereafter some of Prajnaparamita statues were produced in the region, such as the Prajnaparamita of Singhasari in East Java and Prajnaparamita of Muaro Jambi Regency, Sumatra. Both of East Java and Jambi Prajnaparamitas bear resemblance in style as they were produced in same period, however unfortunately Prajnaparamita of Jambi is headless and was discovered in poor condition.\n\nThe statue of Prajnaparamita of East Java is probably the most famous depiction of the goddess of transcendental wisdom, and is considered the masterpiece of classical ancient Java Hindu-Buddhist art in Indonesia. It was discovered in the Cungkup Putri ruins near Singhasari temple, Malang, East Java. Today the beautiful and serene statue is displayed on 2nd floor Gedung Arca, National Museum of Indonesia, Jakarta.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1771127", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1771127", "title": "Problem finding", "text": "Problem finding\n\nProblem finding means problem discovery. It is part of the larger problem process that includes problem shaping and problem solving. Problem finding requires intellectual vision and insight into what is missing. This involves the application of creativity. \n\n"}
{"id": "17545854", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17545854", "title": "Psychic apparatus", "text": "Psychic apparatus\n\nThe term psychic apparatus (also psychical apparatus, mental apparatus) denotes a central, theoretic construct of Freudian metapsychology, wherein:\n\nAs a psychologist, Sigmund Freud used the German terms psychischer Apparat and seelischer Apparat, about the functioning of which he elaborates:\n\nFreud proposed the psychic apparatus as solely a theoretic construct explaining the functioning of the mind, and not a neurologic structure of the brain:\n\nMoreover, in emphasizing the immateriality of the psychic apparatus, Freud dismissed the matter of its physical substance:\n"}
{"id": "35444380", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35444380", "title": "Religion and personality", "text": "Religion and personality\n\nMost scientists agree that religiosity is not an independent personality trait, but something that can have the effect of personality traits. Viewing religiosity through the lenses of differing personality characteristics provides a relatively empirical way to study a difficult concept. Over time, the act of being religious has been a consistent behavior across almost every culture, and thus provides evidence that our personality can help explain the seeming predisposition of religious people.\n\nWith the ability to use modern, empirically tested personality measures, researchers can link results with religiosity. In linking personality measures with religion, it is possible to quantitatively study results, which can provide insight into how and why religion is such an important element of being human. However, more research is needed to definitively say that there is a correlation between certain personality characteristics and religion.\n\nThe five-factor model of personality is currently accepted as a comprehensive model of personality. The five-factor model (FFM) identifies five broad traits underlying the many narrower traits that can be used to describe personality. The identified traits are: 1) extraversion, the quantity and intensity of one's interpersonal interactions 2) neuroticism, the tendency to experience negative emotions such as anxiety, depression, and hostility 3) conscientiousness, the persistence, organization, and motivation exhibited in goal-directed behaviors 4) agreeableness, the quality of one's interpersonal interactions along a continuum from compassion to antagonism 5) openness, the proactive seeking and appreciation of new experiences. The idea behind the big five personality characteristics that makes them compatible to religious study is that each trait is orthogonal, or completely independent from one another. In having the ability to separate each essential trait from the other, it is possible to study each personality characteristic and how it relates to religiosity.\n\nThe idea of studying the psychology of religion through a personality lens is not a new idea, however. There has been research to both support and refute the ability of personality traits to explain religious or spiritual involvement. Research using Eysenck's model has found that religiosity in general is associated with low openness to experience, as well as low psychoticism, a factor associated inversely with agreeableness and conscientiousness. A review of studies examined the relations between the FFM and measures of religiosity, spiritual maturity, religious fundamentalism, and extrinsic religion. General religiosity was mainly related to Agreeableness and Conscientiousness of the big five traits. Additionally, there was a weak positive association with extraversion, and a very small but significant relationship with low openness to experience. This same study also found that the two different concepts of religiosity and spirituality both involve an overall compassionate attitude towards others and positively correlates with agreeableness. Open, mature religiosity and spirituality were associated with high openness to experience, extraversion, agreeableness, and conscientiousness, and with low neuroticism. Religious fundamentalism was associated with higher agreeableness, and lower neuroticism and lower openness to experience. Because of these factors, it was also seen that more religious people seem to be altruistic and more well behaved. However, this correlation is pretty small. It is not known if religious people tend to be better behaved or if better behaved people are more attracted to religion. Extrinsic religiosity was associated with higher neuroticism but unrelated to the other personality factors. All of these relationships between personality and religion were small. This finding does not necessarily support the concept of personality for being the specific reason for religiosity, however this correlation with the FFM can lead to more in depth research on the topic.\n\nAs previously stated, one of the major strengths for using the FFM to study religiosity in people is the how empirically tested, and accurate the measure actually is in accordance to personality. Another strength is that the big five is an excellent starting point for beginning to look at links between personality and religiosity because it is simply laid out. While this is a huge strength, some research argues that its downfall lies in that it is solely a personality indicator, and is not compatible with religious or spiritual matters. For example, in another study that investigated the correlation between religiosity and the FFM, a conclusion was drawn that religiosity and/or spirituality should be made into a sixth personality factor in order to truly make research using this model accurate. As more advances in research using the FFM to study religiosity and spirituality come, there will be a clearer cut answer as to whether there is a significant place for the FFM in studying religious behavior.\n\nAttachment Theory is another example of a personality indicator with the ability to help researchers understand religiosity and spirituality. The basic premise of attachment theory is that infants form relationships with their caregivers, and depending on the type of attachment, personality and future relationships will be influenced accordingly. The idea behind how the theory relates to the psychology of religion is that these future relationships can be with the particular god, or higher power.\n\nIn attachment theory, there have been three attachment styles identified: 1)secure style- confidence in the availability of attachment figures during times of need 2)avoidant style- insecurity and lack of trust in the ability of others to care for one's needs 3) anxious-ambivalent style- view of others as being reluctant to get close to oneself. The research varies in explaining which type of attachment style yields the individual's particular relationship with God. For example, in one study, a secure relationship with one's parents will translate into a secure attachment to God, and vice versa. However, other research has showed that there is a compensatory effect, or the need of people to make up for something that is lacking. For instance, someone with an insecure attachment style with their parents may in turn, have a very secure, and confident relationship with God.\n\nThe idea of being able to link people's religiousness (or lack thereof) with how their attachment with their caregivers was, seems to be a promising field of study. The obstacle that makes this seemingly simple idea very complicated is that the current data is so skewed. There are many studies that found there is a direct correspondence from attachment style with caregivers to God, and there are studies who have found more compensatory results. The inability of researchers to find a general consensus could be a hindrance towards future exploration in this field.\n\nObject relations theory's roots lie in children relating or associating different emotions with different people (objects). The children associate these emotions to the objects based on how they currently view the world around them. For example, kids will associate the emotion of something good with mother, and bad with something like criminals. In relating this with religious ideals, it seems natural that the same concept should apply. One's relationship with God should, in theory, be traced back to association.\n\nIn this theory, it is hypothesized that the person ends up creating an idea of God according to what the individual needs, and how he or she perceives the world. This view of personality and religion does not focus on how each person differs trait wise, but it centers on the type of relationship the individual has with God.\n\nAn important notion to keep in mind with Object Relations theory is that it is highly theoretical. This is a weakness in the sense that all data is based on a concept that cannot be objectively verified, and thus creates a confound. As with all inquiries about the psychological nature of religion, it is difficult to find extremely valid and reliable measures because of the introspective nature of the subject. That being said, there is something that we can learn from this field of study. By analyzing how this theory of personality development correlates with one's attachment to a religious deity, we can hopefully begin to understand how important association, and perception is to religious ideals.\n\nResearch has shown that struggles with religion correlates to basic personality traits. Studies on The Big Five Factors of Personality, as well as factors such as self-compassion, self-esteem, and entitlement, suggest that there is a significant relationship between religious uncertainty and personality.\n\nPeople who are high in neuroticism may have a hard time trying to find purpose in their life. This correlates with divine struggles as they may encounter distress when it comes to finding the meaning of life as well as recognizing divine figures of religions. Extroversion, however, has not been linked through research or studies with religious struggles. Very little evidence is available to suggest that openness to experience is linked to religious struggles, but it is thought that those who are high in openness to experience may carry more doubt in religion compared to those who are lower in openness to experience. Both agreeableness and conscientiousness have been associated with possible animosity towards God or other divine figures. It has also been found that religious people are more likely to avoid risk.\n\nResearch done by Salsman, Brown, Brechting, and Carlson showed a positive correlation between religion and life satisfaction of about 0.2 to 0.3. It was shown by Salsman that those who practice religion have a generally more positive outlook on life. Many elements of religion have been studied to determine which aspects impacts one's life satisfaction. It was found that both personal and organizational religion can lead to an increased life satisfaction. Individual prayer, a feeling of intimacy with the divine, and meditation were all linked to greater psychological well-being and life satisfaction. When it came to organizational religion, people felt a greater satisfaction knowing that they belonged to a group, had a support system from the church, and felt fulfilled when they increased their participation within the church's community.\n\nThose who feel conflicted about religion may encounter a decline in their health, both mentally and physically. Research has shown that those who have religious struggles could have higher depression and anxiety levels. The risk of suicide is even elevated when struggle is present within religion. These struggles have been linked to a separation from the church or the divine; however the cause for the separation is unknown and may stem from different events throughout life such as a traumatic death in the family, difficult life events, or a mental battle between oneself. More research is needed to validate the causes of religious separation and how it effect one's personality.\n\nThe Myers-Briggs Type Indicator, or MBTI, uses four dichotomies to indicate a person's psychological preference. When used in studies alongside religion, it has been shown that introverted types (primarily ISTJ and INTJ) are more likely to be atheist. However, a large portion of Greek Orthodox is ISTJ as well. In addition, the \"judging\" (J) type is common among evangelical and Protestants. ESFJ and ENFJ personality types are more interested in becoming ministers than other type. ENFJs are more attracted to becoming ministers of liberal denominations, while ESFJs are more interested in becoming ministers in conservative denominations. It should also be noted that the Myers-Briggs Personality Type Indicator, although popular, is flawed.\n\nMost religions are based around a belief in some sort of supernatural being. This may lead some to believe that the characteristic of being religious would relate in someway to the characteristic of believing in other paranormal beings. However, multiple studies have found no correlation between these two characteristics. This could be due to the fact that many religions discourage their members from thinking too much of paranormal beings, as they are thought to be evil. In conclusion, paranormal beliefs are probably not highly related to personality traits.\n\nWhile there are many who believe religion has a strong influence on personality development, some believe it may be a personality trait on its own. Vassilis Saroglou, for example, has developed on the idea by introducing four traits of personality that religion develop: believing, bonding, behaving, and belonging. Believing refers to someone accepting the belief in a supernatural being or world. Bonding is how important religion is to the self and how it connects them to something larger than themselves. Behaving is how someone changes their own lifestyle to appease their spiritual beliefs. Belonging is the identity one acquires from believing in a religion. This concept, published in 2011, easily applies to religion cross-culturally and to a wide range of spirituality.\n\n"}
{"id": "29770050", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29770050", "title": "Reparation (psychoanalysis)", "text": "Reparation (psychoanalysis)\n\nThe term reparation was used by Melanie Klein (1921) to indicate a psychological process of making mental repairs to a damaged internal world. In object relations theory, it represents a key part of the movement from the paranoid-schizoid position to the depressive position — the pain of the latter helping to fuel the urge to reparation.\n\nKlein considered the ability to recognise our destructive impulses towards those we love, and to make reparation for the damage we have caused them, to be an essential part of mental health. A key condition for this to take place is the recognition of one's separateness from one's parents, which makes possible the reparative attempt to restore their inner representations, however damaged these may be felt to be.\n\nAcceptance of reality, inner and outer, forms a major part of this process; it involves both an abandonment of fantasies of omnipotence, and accepting the independent existence of one's objects of attachment.\n\nWhere the damage done to the internal world is felt by a patient to be extreme, however, the task of reparation may seem too great — which is one of the obstacles facing the analytic attempt at cure.\n\nKleinian thought distinguishes between true reparation and manic reparation, the latter being driven by guilt rather than overcoming it. Manic reparation denies the pain and concern of feeling guilty by using magical methods of repair which maintain omnipotent control of the object in question, and refuse to allow it its separate existence. Thus manic reparation has to be endlessly repeated, since success would free the object from the manic person's (contemptuous) power.\n\nDonald Winnicott made his own distinctive contribution to the role of reparation in the \"personalising\" of the individual, the move from the ruthless use of the external object to a sense of concern. Winnicott focused on the way at a certain stage of development a feeling of guilt or concern begins to appear after the wholehearted instinctual experience of a feed. But once the reparative gesture—a smile, a gift—has been successfully acknowledged by the mother, Winnicott writes: \"The breast (body, mother) is now mended and the day's work is done. Tomorrow's instincts can be awaited with limited fear\". The child's contribution is a way of accepting the debt owed to the mother, for their survival and their participation in the work of reparation. If, on the other hand, the reparative gesture is not accepted, the infant is left with a feeling of depression or meaninglessness. \n\nA similar dynamic may later appear between patient and analyst, with the making of progress being offered as a means of reparation.\n\nKleinians considered that artistic creation was driven by the phantasy of repairing the loved object (mother). \n\nMarion Milner in the Independent tradition also saw art as a way of both symbolizing and enacting inner reparation; but was criticised by Kleinians for giving too large a role to the omnipotent feelings of the artist in reparation.\n\nMelanie Klein, \"Love, Guilt and Reparation\" (2013)\n\n"}
{"id": "11860888", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11860888", "title": "Sex Differences in Cognitive Abilities", "text": "Sex Differences in Cognitive Abilities\n\nSex Differences in Cognitive Abilities () is a book by Diane Halpern published by Lawrence Erlbaum Associates in 2000, and now in its fourth edition. Diane Halpern served as president of the American Psychological Association in 2004.\n\nHalpern writes that gender differences in cognitive abilities can be caused by a \"stereotype threat\", defined as \"the fear of conforming to a negative stereotype associated with one’s group membership, which paradoxically results in the individual behaving in line with the stereotype\". If an individual is made aware of a stereotype then \"the activation of stereotypes might explain why the magnitude of sex differences in sex-sensitive cognitive task varies across studies, depending on whether participants gender-stereotypes are activated or not\".\n\n"}
{"id": "57621332", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57621332", "title": "Skandha (Jainism)", "text": "Skandha (Jainism)\n\nSkandha (Sanskrit) means \"heaps, aggregates, collections, groupings\". In contrast to Buddhism that says Skandha is without any underlying substance or identity, Jainism posits that all Skandhas are ultimately backed by a combination of Paramanus or elementary particles that are indestructible and uncreatable. Skandha is nothing but a combination of Paramanus (elementary particles). Jainism doesn't include the last four types of aggregates of Buddhism because those phenomena are explained in Jainism by the groupings between fine matter called (karma particles, second last from the list below) and Atman Substance (unified individual whose existence is denied in Buddhism). A grouping between matter and Atman is not considered a Skandha but is considered a Bandha (bondage).\n\nEach Paramanu has \"intensity points\" of aridness or cohesiveness that, because of transformation, can increase or decrease between one and infinity. These Paramanus can combine with each other to create Skandhas or Aggregates when there is a difference of two \"intensity points\", whether it is arid or cohesive or whether having even or odd \"intensity points\" except the minimum (one) \"intensity point\". For example, a paramanu with two points of cohesiveness can combine with a paramanu of four points of cohesiveness or aridness; and that of three points with that of five points and so on. This definition is given in Pravachanasara.\n\nSkandhas and Paramanus are two types of Pudgalas (Matter).\n\nSkandha are of six types: Gross-gross, gross, gross-fine, fine-gross, fine, and fine-fine. This classification is given in Niyamsara.\n"}
{"id": "38234973", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38234973", "title": "Status set", "text": "Status set\n\nA status set is a collection of social statuses that an individual holds. A person may have status of a daughter, wife, mother, student, worker, church member and a citizen.\n\nThe term \"status set\" was coined by Robert K. Merton in 1957. He made a clear distinction between a \"role set\" and a \"status set\".\n\nMerton stated that status set is the set of statuses in a society while role set is the set of roles in a society\n"}
{"id": "343420", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=343420", "title": "The Lady, or the Tiger?", "text": "The Lady, or the Tiger?\n\n\"The Lady, or the Tiger?\" is a much-anthologized short story written by Frank R. Stockton for publication in the magazine \"The Century\" in 1882. \"The Lady, or the Tiger?\" has entered the English language as an allegorical expression, a shorthand indication or signifier, for a problem that is unsolvable.\n\nThe short story takes place in a land ruled by a semi-barbaric king. Some of the king's ideas are progressive, but others cause people to suffer. One of the king's innovations is the use of a public trial by ordeal as an agent of poetic justice, with guilt or innocence decided by the result of chance. A person accused of a crime is brought into a public arena and must choose one of two doors. Behind one door is a lady whom the king has deemed an appropriate match for the accused; behind the other is a fierce, hungry tiger. Both doors are heavily soundproofed to prevent the accused from hearing what is behind each one. If he chooses the door with the lady behind it, he is innocent and must immediately marry her, but if he chooses the door with the tiger behind it, he is deemed guilty and is immediately devoured by it.\n\nThe king learns that his daughter has a lover, a handsome and brave youth who is of lower status than the princess, and has him imprisoned to await trial. By the time that day comes, the princess has used her influence to learn the positions of the lady and the tiger behind the two doors. She has also discovered that the lady is someone whom she hates, thinking her to be a rival for the affections of the accused. When he looks to the princess for help, she discreetly indicates the door on his right, which he opens.\n\nThe outcome of this choice is not revealed. Instead, the narrator departs from the story to summarize the princess's state of mind and her thoughts about directing the accused to one fate or the other, as she will lose him to either death or marriage. She contemplates the pros and cons of each option, though notably considering the lady more. \"And so I leave it with all of you: Which came out of the opened door – the lady, or the tiger?\"\n\nStockton later wrote \"The Discourager of Hesitancy,\" a follow-up to \"The Lady, or the Tiger?\" that begins with five travelers visiting the kingdom to discover what the accused man in that story found behind the door he chose. An official tells them a second story, of a prince who had come to the kingdom to find a wife. Instead of allowing him to see any available ladies, the king had him immediately taken to guest quarters and summoned attendants to prepare him for a wedding to be held the next day. One attendant introduced himself as the Discourager of Hesitancy and explained that his job was to ensure compliance with the king's will, through the subtle threat of the large \"cimeter\" (scimitar) he carried.\n\nAt noon on the following day, the prince was blindfolded and brought before a priest, where a marriage ceremony was performed and he could feel and hear a lady standing next to him. Once the ceremony was complete, the blindfold was removed and he turned to find 40 ladies standing before him, one of whom was his new bride. If he did not correctly identify her, the Discourager would execute him on the spot. The prince narrowed the possibilities down to two, one lady smiling and one frowning, and made the correct choice.\n\nThe kingdom official tells the five travelers that once they figure out which lady the prince had married, he will tell them the outcome of \"The Lady, or the Tiger?\" The story ends with a comment that they still have not come to a decision.\n\nA play adaptation by Sydney Rosenfeld debuted at Wallack's Theatre in 1888 ran for seven weeks. In addition to stretching out the story as long as possible to make it a play, at the end the choice was revealed to the audience – neither a lady or tiger, but an old hag.\n\nToyah Willcox and Robert Fripp released a recording of \"The Lady, or the Tiger?\" and \"The Discourager of Hesitancy\" with Willcox reading the stories to electric guitar accompaniment by Fripp.\n\n\"The Lady, or the Tiger?\" is one of three short stories that were adapted into the musical comedy \"The Apple Tree\".\n\nThe story was the inspiration for Raymond Smullyan's puzzle book by the same title, \"The Lady, or the Tiger?\". The first set of logic puzzles in the book had a similar scenario to the short story in which a king gives each prisoner a choice between a number of doors; behind each one was either a lady or a tiger. However, the king bases the prisoner's fate on intelligence and not luck by posting a statement on each door that can be true or false.\n\n\"The Lady, or the Tiger?\" adapted to a short film by Encyclopaedia Britannica Educational Corporation on 1970.\n\n\"The Lady, or the Tiger?\" is referenced in \"Ennui\", a sonnet written by Sylvia Plath and published 43 years after her death. Plath's sonnet, however, speaks of an age when the choice has become no longer relevant.\n\nAlternative rock band They Might Be Giants released the song \"The Lady and the Tiger\" on their 2011 album \"Join Us\". Like the story, the song ends without a conclusion. The last line reads, \"The hall remains, it still contains a pair of doors, a choice. Behind one door, a muffled roar, behind the other, a voice.\"\n\n\"The Lady or the Tiger\" is a one-act play adapted from Stockton's short story and published by Lazy Bee Scripts in 2010.\n\n\"The Purr-fect Crime\", Season 1, Episode 19 of the U.S. television series \"Batman\" ends with a cliffhanger in which Batman is presented with two doors; one of which opens to Catwoman and the other opens to a tiger. Batman has no hint and chooses the door that has the tiger.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55404885", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55404885", "title": "Transracial (identity)", "text": "Transracial (identity)\n\nTransracial people are individuals who assert a racial identity for themselves which differs from their birth ethnicity. \n\nA prominent example of a person who identifies as transracial is Rachel Dolezal, who is of white descent but identifies as black. Martina Big, who was featured on \"Maury\" in September 2017, is another white woman who identifies as black. Big has had tanning injections administered by a physician to darken her skin and hair.\n\nIn April 2017, the feminist philosophy journal \"Hypatia\" published an academic paper in support of recognizing transracialism and drawing parallels between \"transracial\" and transgender individuals. Publication of this paper resulted in considerable controversy. The subject was also explored in \"\", a 2016 book by UCLA sociology professor Rogers Brubaker, who argues that the phenomenon, though offensive to many, is psychologically real to many people, and has many examples throughout history.\n\nThe use of the term \"transracial\" to describe changing racial identity has been criticized by the transracial adoption community. The term \"transracial\" has historically been used in the adoption community to describe parents who adopt a child of a different race. Members of the transracial adoption community assert that the term \"transracial\" has a specific historical meaning related to such adoptions, and argue that the term is being \"appropriated and co-opted\" in a manner that harms the transracial adoption community. In June 2015, about two dozen transracial adoptees, transracial parents and academics published an open letter that condemned the use of the term \"transracial\" to describe white women assuming cultural markers to identify as black, calling such use \"erroneous, ahistorical, and dangerous.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4570805", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4570805", "title": "United Nations General Assembly Resolution 3314", "text": "United Nations General Assembly Resolution 3314\n\nUnited Nations General Assembly Resolution 3314 (XXIX) (Definition of Aggression) was adopted by the United Nations General Assembly on December 14, 1974 as a non-binding recommendation to the United Nations Security Council on the definition it should use for the crime of aggression.\n\nThe adoption of the definition was the culmination of a long process begun in 1923 under the auspices of the League of Nations. In December 1967 the General Assembly adopted Resolution 2330 (XXII), which established a Special Committee on the Question of Defining Aggression. This body comprised 35 member states. After seven years, it reported back to the General Assembly with draft proposals that formed the basis of the final Definition of Aggression.\n\nThe definition makes a distinction between \"aggression\" (which \"gives rise to international responsibility\") and \"war of aggression\" (which is \"a crime against international peace\"). Article 3 \"in accordance with the provisions of article 2\", defines certain acts as aggression, such as armed invasions or attacks, bombardments, blockades, armed violations of territory, permitting other states to use one's own territory to perpetrate acts of aggression and the employment of armed irregulars or mercenaries to carry out acts of aggression. Article 2 states that the first use of force in contravention of the UN Charter will be prima facie evidence of aggression, but the Security Council has the authority to determine that given the circumstances aggression has not taken place. A war of aggression is a series of acts committed with a sustained intent. The definition's distinction between an \"act\" of aggression and a \"war\" of aggression make it clear that not every act of aggression would constitute a crime against peace; only war of aggression does. States would nonetheless be held responsible for acts of aggression.\n\nThe wording of the definition has been criticised by many commentators. Its clauses on the use of armed irregulars are vague, as it is unclear what level of \"involvement\" would entail state responsibility. It is also highly state-centric, in that it deems states to be the only actors liable for acts of aggression. Domestic or transnational insurgent groups, such as those that took part in the Sierra Leone Civil War and the Yugoslav Wars, were key players in their respective conflicts despite being non-state parties; they would not have come within the scope of the definition.\n\nThe Definition of Aggression also does not cover acts by international organisations. The two key military alliances at the time of the definition's adoption, NATO and the Warsaw Pact, were non-state parties and thus were outside the scope of the definition. Moreover, the definition does not deal with the responsibilities of individuals for acts of aggression. It is widely perceived as an insufficient basis on which to ground individual criminal prosecutions.\n\nThe definition is not binding on the Security Council. The United Nations Charter empowers the General Assembly to make recommendations to the United Nations Security Council but the Assembly may not dictate to the Council. The resolution accompanying the definition states that it is intended to provide guidance to the Security Council to aid it \"in determining, in accordance with the Charter, the existence of an act of aggression\". The Security Council may apply or disregard this guidance as it sees fit. Legal commentators argued in 1999 that the Definition of Aggression has had \"no visible impact\" on the deliberations of the Security Council.\n\n"}
{"id": "32361", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32361", "title": "Value theory", "text": "Value theory\n\nValue theory is a range of approaches to understanding how, why, and to what degree persons value things; whether the object or subject of valuing is a person, idea, object, or anything else.\n\nThis investigation began in ancient philosophy, where it is called axiology or ethics. Early philosophical investigations sought to understand good and evil and the concept of \"the good\". Today, much of value theory aspires to the scientifically empirical, recording what people do value and attempting to understand why they value it in the context of psychology, sociology, and economics.\n\nAt the general level, there is a difference between moral and natural goods. Moral goods are those that have to do with the conduct of persons, usually leading to praise or blame. Natural goods, on the other hand, have to do with objects, not persons. For example, the statement \"Mary is a good person\" uses 'good' very differently than in the statement \"That is good food\".\n\nEthics is mainly focused on moral goods rather than natural goods, while economics has a concern in what is economically good for the society but not an individual person and is also interested in natural goods. However, both moral and natural goods are equally relevant to goodness and value theory, which is more general in scope.\n\nIn sociology, value theory is concerned with personal values which are popularly held by a community, and how those values might change under particular conditions. Different groups of people may hold or prioritize different kinds of values influencing social behavior.\n\nMajor Western theorists who stress the importance of values as an analytical independent variable include Max Weber, Émile Durkheim, Talcott Parsons, and Jürgen Habermas. Classical examples of sociological traditions which deny or downplay the question of values are institutionalism, historical materialism (including Marxism), behaviorism, pragmatic-oriented theories, postmodern philosophy and various objectivist-oriented theories.\n\nMethods of study range from questionnaire surveys to participant observation.\n\nEconomic analysis emphasizes goods sought in a market and tends to use the consumer's choices as evidence (revealed preference) that various products are of economic value. In this view, religious or political struggle over what \"goods\" are available in the marketplace is inevitable, and consensus on some core questions about body and society and ecosystems affected by the transaction, are outside the market's goods so long as they are unowned.\n\nHowever, some natural goods seem to also be moral goods. For example, those things that are owned by a person may be said to be natural goods, but over which a particular individual(s) may have moral claims. So it is necessary to make another distinction: between \"moral\" and \"non-moral goods\". A non-moral good is something that is desirable for someone or other; despite the name to the contrary, it may include moral goods. A moral good is anything which an actor is considered to be morally obligated to strive toward.\n\nWhen discussing non-moral goods, one may make a useful distinction between inherently serviced and material \"goods in\" the marketplace (or its exchange value), versus perceived intrinsic and experiential \"goods to\" the buyer. A strict service economy model takes pains to distinguish between the goods and service guarantees \"to the market\", and that of the service and experience \"to the consumer\".\n\nSometimes, moral and natural goods can conflict. The value of natural \"goods\" is challenged by such issues as addiction. The issue of addiction also brings up the distinction between economic and moral goods, where an economic good is whatever stimulates economic growth. For instance, some claim that cigarettes are a \"good\" in the economic sense, as their production can employ tobacco growers and doctors who treat lung cancer. Many people would agree that cigarette smoking is not \"morally\" \"good\", nor \"naturally\" \"good,\" but still recognize that it is economically good, which means, it has exchange value, even though it may have a negative public good or even be bad for a person's body (not the same as \"bad for the person\" necessarily – consider the issue of suicide.) \n\nIn ecological economics value theory is separated into two types: donor-type value and receiver-type value. Ecological economists tend to believe that 'real wealth' needs a donor-determined value as a measure of what things were needed to make an item or generate a service (H. T. Odum, \"Environmental Accounting: Emergy and environmental decision-making\", 1996). An example of receiver-type value is 'market value', or 'willingness to pay', the principal method of accounting used in neo-classical economics. In contrast, both Marx's labour theory of value and the emergy concept are conceived as donor-type value. Emergy theorists believe that this conception of value has relevance to all of philosophy, economics, sociology and psychology as well as Environmental Science.\n\nSilvio Gesell denied value theory in economics. He thought that value theory is useless and prevents economics from becoming science and that a currency administration guided by value theory is doomed to sterility and inactivity.\n\nIntuitively, theories of value must be important to ethics. A number of useful distinctions have been made by philosophers in the treatment of value.\n\nMany people find it useful to distinguish \"instrumental value\" and \"intrinsic values\", first discussed by Plato in the \"Republic\". An instrumental value is worth having as a means towards getting something else that is good (e.g., a radio is instrumentally good in order to hear music). An intrinsically valuable thing is worth having for itself, not as a means to something else. It is giving value intrinsic and extrinsic properties.\n\nIntrinsic and instrumental goods are not mutually exclusive categories. Some things are both good in themselves, and also good for getting other things that are good. \"Understanding science\" may be such a good, being both worthwhile in and of itself, and as a means of achieving other goods.\n\nA prominent argument in environmental ethics, made by writers like Aldo Leopold and Holmes Rolston III, is that wild nature and healthy ecosystems have intrinsic value, prior to and apart from their instrumental value as resources for humans, and should therefore be preserved. This line of argument has been articulated further in recent years by Canadian philosopher John McMurtry within the \"Encyclopedia of Life Support Systems\" (http://www.eolss.net) published by UNESCO.\n\nJohn Dewey (1859-1952), in his book \"Theory of Valuation\", sees goodness as the outcome of ethic valuation, a continuous balancing of \"ends in view\". An end in view is said to be an objective potentially adopted, which may be refined or rejected based on its consistency with other objectives or as a means to objectives already held.\n\nDewey's empiricist approach evinces absolute intrinsic value denial; i.e. not accepting intrinsic value as an inherent or enduring property of things. Instead, Dewey sees the appearance of intrinsic value as an illusory product of our continuous valuative activity as purposive beings. In addition to denying categorically that there is anything like intrinsic value, Dewey held the same position with regard to moral values - for Dewey, moral values are also based on a learning process, and are never intrinsic or absolute.\n\nAnother contribution of pragmatism to value theory is the idea of contributory goods with a contributory conditionality. These have the same qualities as the good thing, but need some emergent property of a whole state-of-affairs in order to be good. For example, salt is food on its own, but is far better as part of a prepared meal. In other words, such goods are only \"good\" when certain conditions are met. This is in contrast to other goods, which may be considered \"good\" in a wider variety of situations.\n\nThe thinking of Immanuel Kant greatly influenced moral philosophy. He thought of moral value as a unique and universally identifiable property, as an absolute value rather than a relative value. He showed that many practical goods are good only in states-of-affairs described by a sentence containing an \"if\" clause, e.g., in the sentence, \"Sunshine is only good if you do not live in the desert.\" Further, the \"if\" clause often described the category in which the judgment was made (art, science, etc.). Kant described these as \"hypothetical goods\", and tried to find a \"categorical\" good that would operate across all categories of judgment without depending on an \"if-then\" clause.\n\nAn influential result of Kant's search was the idea of a \"good will\" being the only intrinsic good. Moreover, Kant saw a good will as acting in accordance with a moral command, the \"Categorical Imperative\": \"Act according to those maxims that you could will to be universal law.\" but should not be confused with the Ethic of Reciprocity or Golden Rule, e.g. Mt. 7:12. Whereas the golden rule states that \"One should treat others as one would like others to treat oneself,\" Kant asks us to analyze whether an act can be performed simultaneously by everyone without exception. For example, murder cannot be performed simultaneously by everyone, one set of people would have to live and the other die. That disparity is an exception. The act cannot be performed without exception, therefore it fails the categorical imperative. Contrast this with the golden rule which is subjective to the individual. Following the logic of the golden rule, if I wanted someone to kill me, then it would be acceptable for me to kill others, because I would be doing to others what I would want done to me. This is very important to keep in mind, because Kant's categorical imperative avoids this flaw. From this, and a few other axioms, Kant developed a moral system that would apply to any \"praiseworthy person\".\n\nKantian philosophers believe that any general definition of goodness must define goods that are categorical in the sense that Kant intended.\n\n"}
{"id": "5879451", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5879451", "title": "Viable system phenomena", "text": "Viable system phenomena\n\nSystem phenomena (also known as and further noted as system identification and modeling) is the science of observing the behaviour of a system. The classification of a dynamic system describes how systems are grouped with certain characteristics into special classes and identify mathematical techniques that apply to these classes of problems. \n\nIn particular most systems have five characteristics:\n\n"}
{"id": "42275041", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42275041", "title": "War-weariness", "text": "War-weariness\n\nPolitical war-weariness is the public or political disapproval for the continuation of a prolonged conflict or war. The causes normally involve the intensity of casualties—financial, civilian, and military. It also occurs when a belligerent has the ability to easily leave the conflict yet continues to stay. War-weariness normally leads to a distrust in government or military leadership and can spark protest and anti-war movements. It can also be fueled when a belligerent is found guilty of war crimes, which can create domestic and international backlash. Rates of enlistment and the morale of the armed-forces are often affected by war-weariness.\n\nWar-weariness is less likely to appear in military dictatorships, especially those with heavy propaganda and censorship. According to Immanuel Kant, democratic nations have a better chance of having unpopular news of the war reach the masses, increasing their chance and level of war-weariness.\n\n"}
{"id": "16083864", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16083864", "title": "Wind rights", "text": "Wind rights\n\nWind rights are rights relating to windmills, wind turbines and wind power. Historically in Continental Europe wind rights were manorial rights and obligations relating to the operation and profitability of windmills. In modern times, as wind becomes a more important source of power, rights relating to wind turbines and windmills are sometimes referred to as \"wind rights\".\n\nHistorically, \"wind rights\" (Dutch: \"windrecht\") referred to a tax paid by millers in large parts of the Low Countries before around 1800. The tax was paid on the \"wind catch\" (\"windvang\") needed to turn a windmill, but it was often based on the windmill's output.\n\nSince a windmill in a \"heerlijkheid\" was primarily the property of the lord (although leased out to a miller), wind rights were one way for a lord to discourage competition. In consideration for payment of this tax, the lord ensured that there were no wind obstructions around the mill by imposing a prohibition on buildings and high trees in the area. Another obligation imposed on residents was the \"mill obligation\" (\"molendwang\"), which required them to have their grain ground at the lord's mill. To a certain extent, this was another way for a lord to safeguard the income received from the mill.\n\nBecause of these rights and obligations, windmills had to be identifiable. They each had a name, traditionally the name of an animal. An image of the animal was placed on the mill so that even the illiterate would know which mill was which.\n\nIn the Netherlands, wind rights and the mill obligations were ended around 1800 when a new constitution was introduced in the Batavian Republic. Similar concepts still exist in modern times. Since around 1973 the wind needed to turn a mill has been referred to as the \"windmill biotope\" (\"molenbiotoop\"). An area of around a windmill is maintained as a \"free zone\" so that the windmill can have enough wind. For polder windmills, ensuring that windmills have enough wind is the responsibility of the water board (\"waterschap\" or \"hoogheemraadschap\"). However, this seldom takes priority over the desire of municipalities to build new housing.\n\nIn the United States, as a result of the increased interest in wind energy, developers or utilities purchase “wind rights\" from landowners to allow the installation of one or more wind generators and an access road to the equipment in exchange for a payment to the landowner.\n\n\n"}
