{"id": "36161572", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36161572", "title": "Aagot", "text": "Aagot\n\nAagot or Ågot is a feminine Norwegian given name. Notable people with the name include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11075688", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11075688", "title": "Abigail (name)", "text": "Abigail (name)\n\nAbigail is a female given name. The name comes from the Hebrew name אֲבִיגַיִל / אֲבִיגָיִל \"Avigail\", meaning \"my father's joy\" (alternatively \"my father is exultation\", or \"my father is joy\"). It is also a surname.\n\nAbigail was the wife of King David in the Hebrew Bible (Book of Samuel), and is described as an intelligent, beautiful, loyal woman. The name Abigail, Abagale or Abbigail can be shortened to \"Abby\", \"Abbey\", \"Abbi\", \"Abbie\", \"Abbe\", \"Abi\", \"Abbye\", \"Abs\", or \"Aby\", as well as \"Gail\" or \"Gayle\".\n\n\n\nUsed as a pseudonym:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45665204", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45665204", "title": "Alibek Delimkhanov", "text": "Alibek Delimkhanov\n\nAlibek Sultanovich Delimkhanov () (born October 16, 1974) is a Chechen colonel, military commander of the Kadyrovtsy Spetsnaz battalion Sever (North).\n\nZaur Dadaev, a former second-in-command to Alibek Delimkhanov, confessed that he had decided to kill Boris Nemtsov because of his criticism of Islam and Ramzan Kadyrov, according to Russian media.\n"}
{"id": "2574184", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2574184", "title": "Alice Nzomukunda", "text": "Alice Nzomukunda\n\nAlice Nzomukunda (born 12 April 1966) is a Burundian politician and former Second Vice-President of the country, from 29 August 2005 to 5 September 2006. She is an ethnic Hutu and was a member of the National Council for the Defense of Democracy-Forces for the Defense of Democracy (CNDD-FDD).\n\nAccording to the constitution, Burundi's Second Vice-President is responsible for economic and social affairs. Nzomukunda was nominated by President Pierre Nkurunziza on 29 August 2005. She was endorsed by both chambers of parliament (National Assembly – 109 votes 'for', none 'against' and 46 votes 'for', 2 'against' in the Senate) and immediately sworn in. She is originally from the capital city of Bujumbura.\n\nOn 5 September 2006, Nzomukunda resigned as Second Vice-President, citing corruption and human rights abuses by the government, as well as casting doubt on the authenticity of a coup plot which saw former president Domitien Ndayizeye arrested a few weeks before on August 21. She was replaced as Second Vice-President by Marina Barapama.\n\nNzomukunda subsequently became First Vice-President of the National Assembly. In January 2008, Nzomukunda was expelled from the CNDD-FDD \"for internal disciplinary reasons\" at an extraordinary congress of the party. The CNDD-FDD also decided to remove her from her post as First Vice-President of the National Assembly, and on 8 February 2008 it was announced in the National Assembly that her post was vacant; according to Evariste Ndayishimiye, the President of the CNDD-FDD Parliamentary Group, since Nzomukunda had been expelled from the CNDD-FDD, she was no longer part of its parliamentary group, \"did not represent anything\", and was not entitled to the post of First Vice-President of the National Assembly. Other parties in the National Assembly disputed this, however, arguing that such a decision would have to be made by the National Assembly as a whole, not by a single party. The Front for Democracy in Burundi (FRODEBU) suspended its participation in the National Assembly to protest the use of force against Nzomukunda. Ndayishimiye said that parliamentary affairs should not be disrupted by internal party matters and alleged that FRODEBU had secret reasons for defending Nzomukunda.\n"}
{"id": "24092770", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24092770", "title": "Alim Kouliev", "text": "Alim Kouliev\n\nAlim Kaisynovich Kouliev (born June 24, 1959) is a Russian-American actor, theatre director and screenwriter of Balkar origin. Kouliev was born in Nalchik — a small city in USSR. His father was the Balkar poet Kaisyn Kuliev. His elder brother Eldar Kuliev is a Russian film director and a screenwriter ( died January 14, 2017 in Moscow). His younger brother Azamat Kuliev is the Russian painter, living and working in Istanbul, Turkey. At the age of seven, Kouliev was influenced by Vladimir Visotsky an acclaimed Russian actor, poet and singer, one of his father's younger colleagues in a poetry field. Alim decided to become an actor.\n\nHe studied acting at the Russian Academy of Theatre Arts (GITIS) in Moscow. After serving in the Soviet Army, he continued his education at the All-Union State Institute of Cinematography (VGIK) in Moscow, where he graduated from the acting class of Yevgeny Matveyev, an acclaimed master of theater and cinema. His class mate was Natalya Vavilova. Kouliev also studied stage directing at GITIS in 1981.\n\nEver since he was a student, Kouliev appeared on professional stage. His first significant role on stage was Mercutio in Shakespeare's \"Romeo and Juliet\" at Aleksandr Demidov Theater-Studio, where he also plaid Atavio in \"The Moods of Marianne\" by Alfred de Musset and Meleander in Maurice Maeterlinck's \"Aglavain and Selyzett\". He broke into films starring as Joseph Codrero in \"Copper Angel\" with Leonid Kuravlyov, Anatoly Kuznetsov, Aleksandr Filippenko, Leonid Yarmolnik. He has twelve years of acting experience working in several leading Moscow theaters and has had several roles in famous Russian feature films. He has also performed extensively as an actor for radio and TV. Kouliev created many great characters in classic and contemporary productions, under the best Russian theatrical and cinema directors.\n\nIn 1991 his life changed dramatically. He moved to the United States.\n\nAfter the long break in his career as an actor Kouliev made his comeback. In Los Angeles, he became a key member of the theatrical troupe \"Dreamhouse Ensemble\", where he played Sasha Smirnoff in \"Room Service\" and Uncle Tovit in \"Jimmy Christ\". At the present time the producer-actor-director works in Hollywood with \"The Master Project\", his own stage adaptation of Mikhail Bulgakov’s novel \"The Master and Margarita\". The Staging of Master and Margarita has been Kouliev's long-cherished dream as a director. He vividly expresses himself in the Master Project as a mature and sophisticated painter of life.\n\n"}
{"id": "557518", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=557518", "title": "Aloysius Gonzaga", "text": "Aloysius Gonzaga\n\nSaint Aloysius de Gonzaga, S.J. (; 9 March 156821 June 1591) was an Italian aristocrat who became a member of the Society of Jesus. While still a student at the Roman College, he died as a result of caring for the victims of a serious epidemic. He was beatified in 1605 and canonized in 1726.\n\nGonzaga was born the eldest of seven children, at his family's castle in Castiglione delle Stiviere, between Brescia and Mantua in northern Italy in what was then part of the Duchy of Mantua, into the illustrious House of Gonzaga. \"Aloysius\" is the Latin form of Aloysius de Gonzaga's given name in Italian, Luigi. He was the son of Ferrante de Gonzaga (1544–1586), Marquis of Castiglione, and Marta Tana di Santena, daughter of a baron of the Piedmontese Della Rovere family. His mother was a lady-in-waiting to Isabel, the wife of Philip II of Spain.\n\nAs the first-born son, he was in line to inherit his father's title and status of Marquis. His father assumed that Aloysius would become a soldier, as that was the norm for sons of the aristocracy and the family was often involved in the minor wars of the period. His military training started at an early age, but he also received an education in languages and the arts. As early as age four, Luigi was given a set of miniature guns and accompanied his father on training expeditions so that the boy might learn “the art of arms”. At age five, Aloysius was sent to a military camp to get started on his training. His father was pleased to see his son marching around camp at the head of a platoon of soldiers. His mother and his tutor were less pleased with the vocabulary he picked up there.\nHe grew up amid the violence and brutality of Renaissance Italy and witnessed the murder of two of his brothers. In 1576, at age 8, he was sent to Florence along with his younger brother, Rodolfo, to serve at the court of the Grand Duke Francesco I de' Medici and to receive further education. While there, he fell ill with a disease of the kidneys, which troubled him throughout his life. While he was ill, he took the opportunity to read about the saints and to spend much of his time in prayer. He is said to have taken a private vow of chastity at age 9. In November 1579, the brothers were sent to the Duke of Mantua. Aloysius was shocked by the violent and frivolous lifestyle he encountered there.\n\nAloysius returned to Castiglione where he met Cardinal Charles Borromeo, and from him received First Ces in India, Aloysius felt strongly that he wanted to become a missionary. He started practicing by teaching catechism classes to young boys in Castiglione in the summers. He also repeatedly visited the houses of the Capuchin friars and the Barnabites located in Casale Monferrato, the capital of the Gonzaga-ruled Duchy of Montferrat where the family spent the winter. He also adopted an ascetic lifestyle.\n\nThe family was called to Spain in 1581 to assist the Holy Roman Empress Maria of Austria. They arrived in Madrid in March 1582, where Aloysius and Rodolfo became pages for the young Infante Diego. Aloysius started thinking in earnest about joining a religious order. He had considered joining the Capuchins, but he had a Jesuit confessor in Madrid and decided instead to join that order. His mother agreed to his request, but his father was furious and prevented him from doing so.\n\nIn July 1584, a year and a half after the Infante's death, the family returned to Italy. Aloysius still wanted to become a priest, but several members of his family worked hard to persuade him to change his mind. When they realized there was no way to make him give up his plan, they tried to persuade him to become a secular priest and offered to arrange for a bishopric for him. If he were to become a Jesuit he would renounce any right to his inheritance or status in society. His family's attempts to dissuade him failed; Aloysius was not interested in higher office and still wanted to become a missionary.\n\nIn November 1585, Aloysius gave up all rights of inheritance, which was confirmed by the emperor. He went to Rome and, because of his noble birth, gained an audience with Pope Sixtus V. Following a brief stay at the Palazzo Aragona Gonzaga, the Roman home of his cousin, Cardinal Scipione Gonzaga, on 25 November 1585 he was accepted into the novitiate of the Society of Jesus in Rome. During this period, he was asked to moderate his asceticism somewhat and to be more social with the other novices.\n\nAloysius' health continued to cause problems. In addition to the kidney disease, he also suffered from a skin disease, chronic headaches and insomnia. He was sent to Milan for studies, but after some time he was sent back to Rome because of his health. On 25 November 1587, he took the three religious vows of chastity, poverty and obedience. In February and March 1588, he received minor orders and started studying theology to prepare for ordination. In 1589, he was called to Mantua to mediate between his brother Rodolfo and the Duke of Mantua. He returned to Rome in May 1590. It is said that, later that year, he had a vision in which the Archangel Gabriel told him that he would die within a year.\nIn 1591, a plague broke out in Rome. The Jesuits opened a hospital for the stricken, and Aloysius volunteered to work there. After begging alms for the victims, Aloysius began working with the sick, carrying the dying from the streets into a hospital founded by the Jesuits. There he washed and fed the plague victims, preparing them as best he could to receive the sacraments. But though he threw himself into his tasks, he privately confessed to his spiritual director, Fr. Robert Bellarmine, that his constitution was revolted by the sights and smells of the work; he had to work hard to overcome his physical repulsion.\n\nAt the time, many of the younger Jesuits had become infected with the disease, and so Aloysius’s superiors forbade him from returning to the hospital. But Aloysius—long accustomed to refusals from his father—persisted and requested permission to return, which was granted. Eventually he was allowed to care for the sick, but only at another hospital, called Our Lady of Consolation, where those with contagious diseases were not admitted. While there, Aloysius lifted a man out of his sickbed, tended to him, and brought him back to his bed. But the man was infected with the plague. Aloysius grew ill and was bedridden by 3 March 1591, a few days before his 23rd birthday.\n\nAloysius rallied for a time, but as fever and a cough set in, he declined for many weeks. It seemed certain that he would die in a short time, and he was given Extreme Unction. While he was ill, he spoke several times with his confessor, the cardinal and later saint, Robert Bellarmine. Aloysius had another vision and told several people that he would die on the Octave of the feast of Corpus Christi. On that day, 21 June 1591, he seemed very well in the morning, but insisted that he would die before the day was over. As he began to grow weak, Bellarmine gave him the last rites and recited the prayers for the dying. He died just before midnight. As Fr. Tylenda tells the story, \"When the two Jesuits came to his side, they noticed a change in his face and realized that their young Aloysius was dying. His eyes were fixed on the crucifix he held in his hands, and as he tried to pronounce the name of Jesus he died.\"\n\nPurity was his notable virtue. The Carmelite mystic St. Maria Magdalena de Pazzi claimed to have had a vision of him on 4 April 1600. She described him as radiant in glory because of his \"interior works,\" a hidden martyr for his great love of God.\n\nAloysius was buried in the Church of the Most Holy Annunciation, which later became the church of Saint Ignatius of Loyola (Sant'Ignazio) in Rome. His name was changed to \"Robert\" before his death, in honor of his confessor. Many people considered him to be a saint soon after his death, and his remains were moved into the Sant'Ignazio church, where they now rest in an urn of lapis lazuli in the Lancellotti Chapel. His head was later translated to the basilica bearing his name in Castiglione delle Stiviere. He was beatified only fourteen years after his death by Pope Paul V, on 19 October 1605. On 31 December 1726, he was canonized together with another Jesuit novice, Stanislaus Kostka, by Pope Benedict XIII.\n\nIn 1729, Pope Benedict XIII declared Aloysius de Gonzaga to be the patron saint of young students. In 1926, he was named patron of all Christian youth by Pope Pius XI. Owing to the manner of his death, he has been considered a patron saint of plague victims. For his compassion and courage in the face of an incurable disease, Aloysius Gonzaga has become the patron both of AIDS sufferers and their caregivers. Aloysius is also the patron of Valmontone, a town in Lazio.\n\nIn art, St Aloysius is shown as a young man wearing a black cassock and surplice, or as a page. His attributes are a lily, referring to innocence; a cross, referring to piety and sacrifice; a skull, referring to his early death; and a rosary, referring to his devotion to the Blessed Virgin Mary.\n\nSaint Aloysius' feast day is celebrated on 21 June, the date of his death. \nGonzaga College High School: Washington Seminary, as Gonzaga was originally called, began classes for lay students in 1821 in the heart of Washington, D.C. and was later renamed Gonzaga College. Gonzaga College High School is a Catholic college preparatory school for boys in grades 9-12.\n\nSt. Aloysius Gonzaga Church on the campus of Gonzaga High School in Washington DC is used for the Graduation ceremonies of the Gonzaga. It had been an operating parish church until 2016. When the church was formally dedicated in 1859, The New York Times wrote, \"In internal architectural beauty, it is said not to be surpassed by any church in the world.\"\n\nSt. Aloysius Senior Secondary Schools are established throughout India.\n\nSeveral buildings and institutions in Spokane, Washington are named after Gonzaga. Gonzaga University is a Roman Catholic university which also has St. Aloysius Gonzaga Church on its campus, which is overseen by the diocese of Spokane. Gonzaga Preparatory School is a private, Roman Catholic high school. Finally, St. Aloysius Gonzaga Catholic School is a K-8 school.\n\nSt. Joseph in Gelsenkirchen, the location of German soccer club Schalke 04, has a glass window of the saint with a soccer ball and refers to the club colors and its strong fanbase.\n\nNot long after Aloysius' death, on his feast day in 1608, the three daughters of his brother, Rodolfo, established a community of women dedicated to education, under the formal name of the Noble Virgins of Jesus. This community still exists, although it is currently reduced to two members. In the work The Devotion to the Sacred Heart of Jesus, Fr. John Croiset mentions St. Aloysius' devotion to the Sacred Heart.\n\n"}
{"id": "97233", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=97233", "title": "Ammit", "text": "Ammit\n\nAmmit (; , \"devourer of the dead\"; also rendered Ammut or Ahemait) was a demoness and goddess in ancient Egyptian religion with a body that was part lion, hippopotamus and crocodile—the three largest \"man-eating\" animals known to ancient Egyptians. A funerary deity, her titles included \"Devourer of the Dead\", \"Eater of Hearts\", and \"Great of Death\".\nAmmit lived near the scales of justice in Duat, the Egyptian underworld. In the Hall of Two Truths, Anubis weighed the heart of a person against the feather of Ma'at, the goddess of truth, which was depicted as an ostrich feather (the feather was often pictured in Ma'at's headdress). If the heart was judged to be not pure, Ammit would devour it, and the person undergoing judgement was not allowed to continue their voyage towards Osiris and immortality. Once Ammit swallowed the heart, the soul was believed to become restless forever; this was called \"to die a second time\". Ammit was also sometimes said to stand by a lake of fire. In some traditions, the unworthy hearts were cast into the fiery lake to be destroyed. Some scholars believe Ammit and the lake represent the same concept of destruction.\n\nAmmit was not worshipped; instead she embodied all that the Egyptians feared, threatening to bind them to eternal restlessness if they did not follow the principle of Ma'at.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1384", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1384", "title": "Amos Bronson Alcott", "text": "Amos Bronson Alcott\n\nAmos Bronson Alcott (; November 29, 1799March 4, 1888) was an American teacher, writer, philosopher, and reformer. As an educator, Alcott pioneered new ways of interacting with young students, focusing on a conversational style, and avoided traditional punishment. He hoped to perfect the human spirit and, to that end, advocated a vegan diet before the term was coined. He was also an abolitionist and an advocate for women's rights.\n\nBorn in Wolcott, Connecticut in 1799, Alcott had only minimal formal schooling before attempting a career as a traveling salesman. Worried about how the itinerant life might have a negative impact on his soul, he turned to teaching. His innovative methods, however, were controversial, and he rarely stayed in one place very long. His most well-known teaching position was at the Temple School in Boston. His experience there was turned into two books: \"Records of a School\" and \"Conversations with Children on the Gospels\". Alcott became friends with Ralph Waldo Emerson and became a major figure in transcendentalism. His writings on behalf of that movement, however, are heavily criticized for being incoherent. Based on his ideas for human perfection, Alcott founded Fruitlands, a transcendentalist experiment in community living. The project was short-lived and failed after seven months. Alcott continued to struggle financially for most of his life. Nevertheless, he continued focusing on educational projects and opened a new school at the end of his life in 1879. He died in 1888.\n\nAlcott married Abby May in 1830 and they eventually had four surviving children, all daughters. Their second was Louisa May, who fictionalized her experience with the family in her novel \"Little Women\" in 1868.\n\nA native New Englander, Amos Bronson Alcott was born in Wolcott, Connecticut (then recently renamed from \"Farmingbury\") on November 29, 1799. His parents were Joseph Chatfield Alcott and Anna Bronson Alcott. The family home was in an area known as Spindle Hill, and his father, Joseph Alcox, traced his ancestry to colonial-era settlers in eastern Massachusetts. The family originally spelled their name \"Alcock\", later changed to \"Alcocke\" then \"Alcox\". Amos Bronson, the oldest of eight children, later changed the spelling to \"Alcott\" and dropped his first name.\nAt age six, young Bronson began his formal education in a one-room schoolhouse in the center of town but learned how to read at home with the help of his mother. The school taught only reading, writing, and spelling and he left this school at the age of 10. At age 13, his uncle, Reverend Tillotson Bronson, invited Alcott into his home in Cheshire, Connecticut, to be educated and prepared for college. Bronson gave it up after only a month and was self-educated from then on. He was not particularly social and his only close friend was his neighbor and second cousin William Alcott, with whom he shared books and ideas. Bronson Alcott later reflected on his childhood at Spindle Hill: \"It kept me pure... I dwelt amidst the hills... God spoke to me while I walked the fields.\" Starting at age 15, he took a job working for clockmaker Seth Thomas in the nearby town of Plymouth.\n\nAt age 17, Alcott passed the exam for a teaching certificate but had trouble finding work as a teacher. Instead, he left home and became a traveling salesman in the American South, peddling books and merchandise. He hoped the job would earn him enough money to support his parents, \"to make their cares, and burdens less... and get them free from debt\", though he soon spent most of his earnings on a new suit. At first, he thought it an acceptable occupation but soon worried about his spiritual well-being. In March 1823, Alcott wrote to his brother: \"Peddling is a hard place to serve God, but a capital one to serve Mammon.\" Near the end of his life, he fictionalized this experience in his book, \"New Connecticut\", originally circulated only among friends before its publication in 1881.\n\nBy the summer of 1823, Alcott returned to Connecticut in debt to his father, who bailed him out after his last two unsuccessful sales trips. He took a job as a schoolteacher in Cheshire with the help of his Uncle Tillotson. He quickly set about reforming the school. He added backs to the benches on which students sat, improved lighting and heating, de-emphasized rote learning, and provided individual slates to each student—paid for by himself. Alcott had been influenced by educational philosophy of the Swiss pedagogue Johann Heinrich Pestalozzi and even renamed his school \"The Cheshire Pestalozzi School\". His style attracted the attention of Samuel Joseph May, who introduced Alcott to his sister Abby May. She called him, \"an intelligent, philosophic, modest man\" and found his views on education \"very attractive\". Locals in Cheshire were less supportive and became suspicious of his methods. Many students left and were enrolled in the local common school or a recently re-opened private school for boys. On November 6, 1827, Alcott started teaching in Bristol, Connecticut, still using the same methods he used in Cheshire, but opposition from the community surfaced quickly; he was unemployed by March 1828. He moved to Boston on April 24, 1828, and was immediately impressed, referring to the city as a place \"where the light of the sun of righteousness has risen\". He opened the Salem Street Infant School two months later on June 23. Abby May applied as his teaching assistant; instead, the couple were engaged, without consent of the family. They were married at King's Chapel on May 22, 1830; he was 30 years old and she was 29. Her brother conducted the ceremony and a modest reception followed at her father's house. After their marriage the Alcotts moved to 12 Franklin Street in Boston, a boarding house run by a Mrs. Newall. Around this time, Alcott also first expressed his public disdain for slavery. In November 1830, he and William Lloyd Garrison founded what he later called a \"preliminary Anti-Slavery Society\", though he differed from Garrison as a nonresistant. Alcott became a member of the Boston Vigilance Committee.\n\nAttendance at Alcott's school was falling. A wealthy Quaker named Reuben Haines proposed he and educator William Russell start a new school in Pennsylvania associated with the Germantown Academy. Alcott accepted and he and his newly pregnant wife set forth on December 14. The school was established in Germantown and the Alcotts were offered a rent-free home by Haines. Alcott and Russell were initially concerned that the area would not be conducive to their progressive approach to education and considered establishing the school in nearby Philadelphia instead. Unsuccessful, they went back to Germantown, though the rent-free home was no longer available and the Alcotts instead had to rent rooms in a boarding-house. It was there that their first child, a daughter they named Anna Bronson Alcott, was born on March 16, 1831, after 36 hours of labor. By the fall of that year, their benefactor Haines died suddenly and the Alcotts again suffered financial difficulty. \"We hardly earn the bread\", wrote Abby May to her brother, \"[and] the butter we have to think about.\"\n\nThe couple's only son was born on April 6, 1839, but lived only a few minutes. The mother recorded: \"Gave birth to a fine boy full grown perfectly formed but not living\". It was in Germantown that the couple's second daughter was born. Louisa May Alcott was born on her father's birthday, November 29, 1832, at a half-hour past midnight. Bronson described her as \"a very fine healthful child, much more so than Anna was at birth\". The Germantown school, however, was faltering; soon only eight pupils remained. Their benefactor Haines died before Louisa's birth. He had helped recruit students and even paid tuition for some of them. As Abby wrote, his death \"has prostrated all our hopes here\". On April 10, 1833, the family moved to Philadelphia, where Alcott ran a day school. As usual, Alcott's methods were controversial; a former student later referred to him as \"the most eccentric man who ever took on himself to train and form the youthful mind.\" Alcott began to believe Boston was the best place for his ideas to flourish. He contacted theologian William Ellery Channing for support. Channing approved of Alcott's methods and promised to help find students to enroll, including his daughter Mary. Channing also secured aid from Justice Lemuel Shaw and Boston mayor Josiah Quincy, Jr.\n\nOn September 22, 1834, Alcott opened a school of about 30 students, mostly from wealthy families. It was named the Temple School because classes were held at the Masonic Temple on Tremont Street in Boston. His assistant was Elizabeth Palmer Peabody, later replaced by Margaret Fuller. Mary Peabody Mann served as a French instructor for a time. The school was briefly famous, and then infamous, because of his original methods. Before 1830, writing (except in higher education) equated to rote drills in the rules of grammar, spelling, vocabulary, penmanship and transcription of adult texts. However, in that decade, progressive reformers such as Alcott, influenced by Pestalozzi as well as Friedrich Fröbel and Johann Friedrich Herbart, began to advocate writing about subjects from students' personal experiences. Reformers debated against beginning instruction with rules and were in favor of helping students learn to write by expressing the personal meaning of events within their own lives. Alcott's plan was to develop self-instruction on the basis of self-analysis, with an emphasis on conversation and questioning rather than lecturing and drill, which were prevalent in the U.S. classrooms of the time. Alongside writing and reading, he gave lessons in \"spiritual culture\", which included interpretation of the Gospels, and advocated \"object teaching\" in writing instruction. He even went so far as to decorate his schoolroom with visual elements he thought would inspire learning: paintings, books, comfortable furniture, and busts or portraits of Plato, Socrates, Jesus, and William Ellery Channing.\n\nDuring this time, the Alcotts had another child. Born on June 24, 1835, she was named Elizabeth Peabody Alcott in honor of the teaching assistant at the Temple School. By age three, however, her mother changed her name to Elizabeth \"Sewall\" Alcott, after her own mother.\nIn July 1835, Peabody published her account as an assistant to the Temple School as \"Record of a School: Exemplifying the General Principles of Spiritual Culture\". While working on a second book, Alcott and Peabody had a falling out and \"Conversations with Children on the Gospels\" was prepared with help from Peabody's sister Sophia, published at the end of December 1836. Alcott's methods were not well received; many found his conversations on the Gospels close to blasphemous. For example, he asked students to question if Biblical miracles were literal and suggested that all people are part of God. In the \"Boston Daily Advertiser\", Nathan Hale criticized Alcott's \"flippant and off hand conversation\" about serious topics from the Virgin birth of Jesus to circumcision. Joseph T. Buckingham called Alcott \"either insane or half-witted\" and \"an ignorant and presuming charlatan\". The book did not sell well; a Boston lawyer bought 750 copies to use as waste paper.\n\nThe temple school was widely denounced in the press. Reverend James Freeman Clarke was one of Alcott's few supporters and defended him against the harsh response from Boston periodicals. Alcott was rejected by most public opinion and, by the summer of 1837, he had only 11 students left and no assistant after Margaret Fuller moved to Providence, Rhode Island. The controversy had caused many parents to remove their children and, as the school closed, Alcott became increasingly financially desperate. Remaining steadfast to his pedagogy, a forerunner of progressive and democratic schooling, he alienated parents in a later \"parlor school\" by admitting an African American child to the class, whom he then refused to expel in the face of protests.\n\nBeginning in 1836, Alcott's membership in the Transcendental Club put him in such company as Ralph Waldo Emerson, Orestes Brownson and Theodore Parker. He became a member with the Club's second meeting and hosted their third. A biographer of Emerson described the group as \"the occasional meetings of a changing body of liberal thinkers, agreeing in nothing but their liberality\". Frederic Henry Hedge wrote of the group's nature: \"There was no club in the strict sense... only occasional meetings of like-minded men and women\". Alcott preferred the term \"Symposium\" for their group.\n\nIn late April 1840, Alcott moved to the town of Concord urged by Emerson. He rented a home for $50 a year within walking distance of Emerson's house; he named it Dove Cottage, though they also called it Concordia Cottage. A supporter of Alcott's philosophies, Emerson offered to help with his writing, which proved a difficult task. After several revisions, for example, he deemed the essay \"Psyche\" (Alcott's account of how he educated his daughters) unpublishable. Alcott also wrote a series patterned after the work of German writer Johann Wolfgang von Goethe which were eventually published in the Transcendentalists' journal, \"The Dial\". Emerson wrote to Margaret Fuller, then editor, that they might \"pass muster & even pass for just & great\". He was wrong. Alcott's so-called \"Orphic Sayings\" were widely mocked for being silly and unintelligible; Fuller herself disliked them, but did not want to hurt Alcott's feelings. In the first issue, for example, he wrote:\nOn July 26, 1840, Abby May gave birth again. Originally referred to as Baby for several months, she was eventually named Abby May after her mother. As a teenager, she changed the spelling of her name to \"Abbie\" before choosing to use only \"May\".\n\nWith financial support from Emerson, Alcott left Concord on May 8, 1842, to a visit to England, leaving his brother Junius with his family. He met two admirers, Charles Lane and Henry C. Wright. The two men were leaders of Alcott House, an experimental school based on Alcott's methods from the Temple School located about ten miles outside London. The school's founder, James Pierpont Greaves, had only recently died but Alcott was invited to stay there for a week. Alcott persuaded them to come to the United States with him; Lane and his son moved into the Alcott house and helped with family chores. Persuaded in part by Lane's abolitionist views, Alcott took a stand against the John Tyler administration's plan to annex Texas as a slave territory and refused to pay his poll tax. Abby May wrote in her journal on January 17, 1843, \"A day of some excitement, as Mr. Alcott refused to pay his town tax... After waiting some time to be committed [to jail], he was told it was paid by a friend. Thus we were spared the affliction of his absence and the triumph of suffering for his principles.\" The annual poll tax was only $1.50. The incident inspired Henry David Thoreau, whose similar protest led to a night in jail and his essay \"Civil Disobedience\". Around this time, the Alcott family set up a sort of domestic post office to curb potential domestic tension. Abby May described her idea: \"I thought it would afford a daily opportunity for the children, indeed all of us, to interchange thought and sentiment\".\n\nLane and Alcott collaborated on a major expansion of their educational theories into a Utopian society. Alcott, however, was still in debt and could not purchase the land needed for their planned community. In a letter, Lane wrote, \"I do not see anyone to act the money part but myself.\" In May 1843, he purchased a farm in Harvard, Massachusetts. Up front, he paid $1,500 of the total $1,800 value of the property; the rest was meant to be paid by the Alcotts over a two-year period. They moved to the farm on June 1 and optimistically named it \"Fruitlands\" despite only ten old apple trees on the property. In July, Alcott announced their plans in \"The Dial\": \"We have made an arrangement with the proprietor of an estate of about a hundred acres, which liberates this tract from human ownership\".\n\nTheir goal was to regain access to Eden by finding the correct formula for perfect living, following specific rules governing agriculture, diet, and reproduction. In order to achieve this, they removed themselves from the economy as much as possible and lived independently; unlike a similar project named Brook Farm, the participants at Fruitlands avoided interaction with local communities. Calling themselves a \"consociate family\", they agreed to follow a strict vegetarian diet and to till the land without the use of animal labor. After some difficulty, they relented and allowed some cattle to be \"enslaved\". They also banned coffee, tea, alcoholic drinks, milk, and warm bathwater. They only ate \"aspiring vegetables\"—those which grew upward—and refused those that grew downward like potatoes. As Alcott had published earlier, \"Our wine is water,—flesh, bread;—drugs, fruits.\" For clothing, they prohibited leather because animals were killed for it, as well as cotton, silk, and wool, because they were products of slave labor. Alcott had high expectations but was often away when the community most needed him as he attempted to recruit more members.\n\nThe experimental community was never successful, partly because most of the land was not arable. Alcott lamented, \"None of us were prepared to actualize practically the ideal life of which we dreamed. So we fell apart\". Its founders were often away as well; in the middle of harvesting, they left for a lecture tour through Providence, Rhode Island, New York City, and New Haven, Connecticut. In its seven months, only 13 people joined, included the Alcotts and Lanes. Other than Abby May and her daughters, only one other woman joined, Ann Page. One rumor is that Page was asked to leave after eating a fish tail with a neighbor. Lane believed Alcott had misled him into thinking enough people would join the enterprise and developed a strong dislike for the nuclear family. He quit the project and moved to a nearby Shaker family with his son. After Lane's departure, Alcott fell into a depression and could not speak or eat for three days. Abby May thought Lane purposely sabotaged her family. She wrote to her brother, \"All Mr. Lane's efforts have been to disunite us. But Mr. Alcott's ... paternal instincts were too strong for him.\" When the final payment on the farm was owed, Sam May refused to cover his brother-in-law's debts, as he often did, possibly at Abby May's suggestion. The experiment failed, the Alcotts had to leave Fruitlands.\n\nThe members of the Alcott family were not happy with their Fruitlands experience. At one point, Abby May threatened that she and their daughters would move elsewhere, leaving Bronson behind. Louisa May Alcott, who was ten years old at the time, later wrote of the experience in \"Transcendental Wild Oats\" (1873): \"The band of brothers began by spading garden and field; but a few days of it lessened their ardor amazingly.\"\n\nIn January 1844, Alcott moved his family to Still River, a village within Harvard but, on March 1, 1845, the family returned to Concord to live in a home they named \"The Hillside\" (later renamed \"The Wayside\" by Nathaniel Hawthorne). Both Emerson and Sam May assisted in securing the home for the Alcotts. While living in the home, Louisa began writing in earnest and was given her own room. She later said her years at the home \"were the happiest years\" of her life; many of the incidents in her novel \"Little Women\" (1868) are based on this period. Alcott renovated the property, moving a barn and painting the home a rusty olive color, as well as tending to over six acres of land. On May 23, 1845, Abby May was granted a sum from her father's estate which was put into a trust fund, granting minor financial security. That summer, Bronson Alcott let Henry David Thoreau borrow his ax to prepare his home at Walden Pond.\n\nThe Alcotts hosted a steady stream of visitors at The Hillside, including fugitive slaves, which they hosted in secret as a station of the Underground Railroad. Alcott's opposition to slavery also fueled his opposition to the Mexican–American War which began in 1846. He considered the war a blatant attempt to extend slavery and asked if the country was made up of \"a people bent on conquest, on getting the golden treasures of Mexico into our hands, and of subjugating foreign peoples?\"\n\nIn 1848, Abby May insisted they leave Concord, which she called \"cold, heartless, brainless, soulless\". The Alcott family put The Hillside up for rent and moved to Boston. There, next door to Peabody's book store on West Street, Bronson Alcott hosted a series based on the \"Conversations\" model by Margaret Fuller called \"A Course on the Conversations on Man—his History, Resources, and Expectations\". Participants, both men and women, were charged three dollars to attend or five dollars for all seven lectures. In March 1853, Alcott was invited to teach fifteen students at Harvard Divinity School in an extracurricular, non-credit course.\n\nAlcott and his family moved back to Concord after 1857, where he and his family lived in the Orchard House until 1877. In 1860, Alcott was named superintendent of Concord Schools.\n\nAlcott voted in a presidential election for the first time in 1860. In his journal for November 6, 1860, he wrote: \"At Town House, and cast my vote for Lincoln and the Republican candidates generally—the first vote I ever cast for a President and State officers.\" Alcott was an abolitionist and a friend of the more radical William Lloyd Garrison. He had attended a rally led by Wendell Phillips on behalf of 17-year-old Thomas Sims, a fugitive slave on trial in Boston. Alcott was one of several who attempted to storm the courthouse; when gunshots were heard, he was the only one who stood his ground, though the effort was unsuccessful. He had also stood his ground in a protest against the trial of Anthony Burns. A group had broken down the door of the Boston courthouse but guards beat them back. Alcott stood forward and asked the leader of the group, Thomas Wentworth Higginson, \"Why are we not within?\" He then walked calmly into the courthouse, was threatened with a gun, and turned back, \"but without hastening a step\", according to Higginson.\n\nIn 1862, Louisa moved to Washington, D.C. to volunteer as a nurse. On January 14, 1863, the Alcotts received a telegram that Louisa was sick; Bronson immediately went to bring her home, briefly meeting Abraham Lincoln while there. Louisa turned her experience into the book \"Hospital Sketches\". Her father wrote of it, \"I see nothing in the way of a good appreciation of Louisa's merits as a woman and a writer.\"\n\nHenry David Thoreau died on May 6, 1862, likely from an illness he caught from Alcott two years earlier. \nAt Emerson's request, Alcott helped arrange Thoreau's funeral, which was held at First Parish Sanctuary in Concord, despite Thoreau having disavowed membership in the church when he was in his early twenties. Emerson wrote a eulogy, and Alcott helped plan the preparations. Only two years later, neighbor Nathaniel Hawthorne died as well. Alcott served as a pallbearer along with Louis Agassiz, James Thomas Fields, Oliver Wendell Holmes, Sr., Henry Wadsworth Longfellow, and others. With Hawthorne's death, Alcott worried that few of the Concord notables remained. He recorded in his journal: \"Fair figures one by one are fading from sight.\" The next year, Lincoln was assassinated, which Alcott called \"appalling news\".\n\nIn 1868, Alcott met with publisher Thomas Niles, an admirer of \"Hospital Sketches\". Alcott asked Niles if he would publish a book of short stories by his daughter; instead, he suggested she write a book about girls. Louisa May was not interested initially but agreed to try. \"They want a book of 200 pages or more\", Alcott told his daughter. The result was \"Little Women\", published later that year. The book, which fictionalized the Alcott family during the girls' coming-of-age years, recast the father figure as a chaplain, away from home at the front in the Civil War.\n\nAlcott spoke, as opportunity arose, before the \"lyceums\" then common in various parts of the United States, or addressed groups of hearers as they invited him. These \"conversations\" as he called them, were more or less informal talks on a great range of topics, spiritual, aesthetic and practical, in which he emphasized the ideas of the school of American Transcendentalists led by Emerson, who was always his supporter and discreet admirer. He often discussed Platonic philosophy, the illumination of the mind and soul by direct communion with Spirit; upon the spiritual and poetic monitions of external nature; and upon the benefit to man of a serene mood and a simple way of life.\n\nAlcott's published books, all from late in his life, include \"Tablets\" (1868), \"Concord Days\" (1872), \"New Connecticut\" (1881), and \"Sonnets and Canzonets\" (1882). Louisa May attended to her father's needs in his final years. She purchased a house for her sister Anna which had been the last home of Henry David Thoreau, now known as the Thoreau-Alcott House. Louisa and her parents moved in with Anna as well.\n\nAfter the death of his wife Abby May on November 25, 1877, Alcott never returned to Orchard House, too heartbroken to live there. He and Louisa May collaborated on a memoir and went over her papers, letters, and journals. \"My heart bleeds with the memories of those days\", he wrote, \"and even long years, of cheerless anxiety and hopeless dependence.\" Louisa noted her father had become \"restless with his anchor gone\". They gave up on the memoir project and Louisa burned many of her mother's papers.\n\nOn January 19, 1879, Alcott and Franklin Benjamin Sanborn wrote a prospectus for a new school which they distributed to potentially interested people throughout the country. The result was the Concord School of Philosophy and Literature, which held its first session in 1879 in Alcott's study in the Orchard House. In 1880 the school moved to the Hillside Chapel, a building next to the house, where he held conversations and, over the course of successive summers, as he entered his eighties, invited others to give lectures on themes in philosophy, religion and letters. The school, considered one of the first formal adult education centers in America, was also attended by foreign scholars. It continued for nine years.\n\nIn April 1882, Alcott's friend and benefactor Ralph Waldo Emerson was sick and bedridden. After visiting him, Alcott wrote, \"Concord will be shorn of its human splendor when he withdraws behind the cloud.\" Emerson died the next day. Alcott himself moved out of Concord for his final years, settling at 10 Louisburg Square in Boston beginning in 1885.\n\nAs he was bedridden at the end of his life, Alcott's daughter Louisa May came to visit him at Louisburg on March 1, 1888. He said to her, \"I am going \"up. Come with me\".\" She responded, \"I wish I could.\" He died three days later on March 4; Louisa May died only two days after her father.\n\nAlcott was fundamentally and philosophically opposed to corporal punishment as a means of disciplining his students. Instead, beginning at the Temple School, he would appoint a daily student superintendent. When that student observed an infraction, he or she reported it to the rest of the class and, as a whole, they deliberated on punishment. At times, Alcott offered his own hand for an offending student to strike, saying that any failing was the teacher's responsibility. The shame and guilt this method induced, he believed, was far superior to the fear instilled by corporal punishment; when he used physical \"correction\" he required that the students be unanimously in support of its application, even including the student to be punished.\n\nThe most detailed discussion of his theories on education is in an essay, \"Observations on the Principles and Methods of Infant Instruction\". Alcott believed that early education must draw out \"unpremeditated thoughts and feelings of the child\" and emphasized that infancy should primarily focus on enjoyment. He noted that learning was not about the acquisition of facts but the development of a reflective state of mind.\n\nAlcott's ideas as an educator were controversial. Writer Harriet Martineau, for example, wrote dubiously that, \"the master presupposes his little pupils possessed of all truth; and that his business is to bring it out into expression\". Even so, his ideas helped to found one of the first adult education centers in America, and provided the foundation for future generations of liberal education. Many of Alcott's educational principles are still used in classrooms today, including \"teach by encouragement\", art education, music education, acting exercises, learning through experience, risk-taking in the classroom, tolerance in schools, physical education/recess, and early childhood education. The teachings of William Ellery Channing a few years earlier had also laid the groundwork for the work of most of the Concord Transcendentalists.\n\nThe Concord School of Philosophy, which closed following Alcott's death in 1888, was reopened almost 90 years later in the 1970s. It has continued functioning with a Summer Conversational Series in its original building at Orchard House, now run by the Louisa May Alcott Memorial Association.\n\nWhile many of Alcott's ideas continue to be perceived as being on the liberal/radical edge, they are still common themes in society, including vegetarian/veganism, sustainable living, and temperance/self-control. Alcott described his sustenance as a \"Pythagorean diet\": meat, eggs, butter, cheese, and milk were excluded and drinking was confined to well water. Alcott believed that diet held the key to human perfection and connected physical well-being to mental improvement. He further viewed a perfection of nature to the spirit and, in a sense, predicted modern environmentalism by condemning pollution and encouraging humankind's role in sustaining ecology.\n\nAlcott's philosophical teachings have been criticized as inconsistent, hazy or abrupt. He formulated no system of philosophy, and shows the influence of Plato, German mysticism, and Immanuel Kant as filtered through the writings of Samuel Taylor Coleridge. Margaret Fuller referred to Alcott as \"a philosopher of the balmy times of ancient Greece—a man whom the worldlings of Boston hold in as much horror as the worldlings of Athens held Socrates.\" In his later years, Alcott related a story from his boyhood: during a total solar eclipse, he threw rocks at the sky until he fell and dislocated his shoulder. He reflected that the event was a prophecy that he would be \"tilting at the sun and always catching the fall\".\n\nLike Emerson, Alcott was always optimistic, idealistic, and individualistic in thinking. Writer James Russell Lowell referred to Alcott in his poem \"Studies for Two Heads\" as \"an angel with clipped wings\". Even so, Emerson noted that Alcott's brilliant conversational ability did not translate into good writing. \"When he sits down to write,\" Emerson wrote, \"all his genius leaves him; he gives you the shells and throws away the kernel of his thought.\" His \"Orphic Sayings\", published in \"The Dial\", became famous for their hilarity as dense, pretentious, and meaningless. In New York, for example, \"The Knickerbocker\" published a parody titled \"Gastric Sayings\" in November 1840. A writer for the \"Boston Post\" referred to Alcott's \"Orphic Sayings\" as \"a train of fifteen railroad cars with one passenger\".\n\nModern critics often fault Alcott for not being able to financially support his family. Alcott himself worried about his own prospects as a young man, once writing to his mother that he was \"still at my old trade—hoping.\" Alcott held his principles above his well-being. Shortly before his marriage, for example, his future father-in-law Colonel Joseph May helped him find a job teaching at a school in Boston run by the Society of Free Enquirers, followers of Robert Owen, for a lucrative $1,000 to $1,200 annual salary. He refused it because he did not agree with their beliefs, writing, \"I shall have nothing to do with them.\"\n\nFrom the other perspective, Alcott's unique teaching ideas created an environment which produced two famous daughters in different fields, in a time when women were not commonly encouraged to have independent careers.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37808995", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37808995", "title": "Arthur Sandes", "text": "Arthur Sandes\n\nArthur Sandes (1793 in Dublin or Kerry – 6 September 1832 in Cuenca, Ecuador) was the commanding officer of the Rifle Battalion of the British Legions in the Spanish American wars of independence.\nSandes came to Venezuela to join the Regiment of Rifles led by Colonel Frederick Campbell taking part in the \"expedition of the Five Colonels\" but Rifles never reached his destination. \nIn the following years Sandes fought in various battles in Ecuador, Peru and Venezuela.\n\n"}
{"id": "584630", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=584630", "title": "Bamyan", "text": "Bamyan\n\nBamyan (; , which means land of Okra), also spelled Bamiyan and Bamian, is the capital of Bamyan Province in central Afghanistan. With an altitude of about 2,550 m and a population of about 100,000, Bamyan is the largest town in the central Afghanistan region of Hazarajat, and lies approximately 240 kilometres north-west of Kabul, the national capital. Many statues of Buddha are carved into the sides of cliffs facing Bamyan city. In 2008, Bamyan was found to be the home of the world's oldest oil paintings.\nThe city of Bamyan has a population of 100,000 (in 2014). It has four districts and a total land area of 3,539 hectares. The total number of dwellings in this city are 4,435.\n\nThe Bamiyan valley marked the most westerly point of Buddhist expansion and was a crucial hub of trade for much of the second millennium CE. It was a place where East met West and its archaeology reveals a blend of Greek, Turkic, Persian, Chinese and Indian influence. The valley is one of Afghanistan's most touristic places.\n\nBamyan City joined the UNESCO Creative Cities Network as a Crafts and Folk Art city in 2017.\n\nSituated on the ancient Silk Route, the town was at the crossroads between the East and West when all trade between China and the Middle East passed through it. The Hunas made it their capital in the 5th century. Because of the cliff of the Buddhas, the ruins of the Monk's caves, Shahr-e Gholghola ('City of Sighs', the ruins of an ancient city destroyed by Genghis Khan during the 1221 siege of Bamiyan), and its local scenery, it is one of the most visited places in Afghanistan. The Shahr-e Zuhak mound ten miles south of the valley is the site of a citadel that guarded the city, and the ruins of an acropolis could be found there as recently as the 1990s.\n\nThe town is the cultural center of the Hazara ethnic group of Afghanistan. Most of the population lives in downtown Bamyan. The valley is cradled between the parallel mountain ranges of the Hindu Kush and the Koh-i-Baba.\n\nBamyan is a small town with a bazaar at its center. It has no infrastructure of electricity, gas, or water supplies. According to Sister Cities International, Bamyan has established a sister city relationship with Gering, Nebraska, United States. It has an airport with a gravel runway.\n\nMountains cover ninety percent of the province, and the cold, long winter, lasting for six months, brings temperatures of three to twenty degrees Celsius below zero. Mainly Daizangi Hazara people live in the area. Transportation facilities are increasing, but sparse. Notably Bamyan is now connected by road to Kabul through Parwan province and through Maidan Wardak. The connection between Maidan Shar and Bamyan – 136 km long – makes it possible to reach Kabul in a 2-hour drive. The connection is almost completed missing just 15 km of paving \nThe main crops are wheat, barley, mushung, and baquli, grown in spring. When crops are damaged by unusually harsh weather, residents herd their livestock down to Ghazni and Maidan provinces to exchange for food.\n\nThe city and the province are served by Bamyan Airport. A new airport has been completed in 2015 with an asphalt runway. The project was funded by the Japanese Government and carried out by the United Nations Office for Project Services (UNOPS).\n\nBamyan's climate is transitional between cold arid (Köppen \"BWk\") and semi-arid (Köppen \"BSk\"), with cold winters and warm, dry summers. Precipitation mostly falls in late winter and spring.\n\nThe city of Bamyan was part of the Buddhist Kushan Empire in the early centuries of the Christian era. After the Kushan Empire fell to the Sassanids, Bamyan became part of the Kushansha, vassals to the Sassanids. The Hephthalites conquered Bamyan in the 5th century. After their Khanate was destroyed by the Sassanids and Turks in 565, Bamyan became the capital of the small Kushano-Hephthalite kingdom until 870, when it was conquered by the Saffarids. The area was conquered by the Ghaznavids in the 11th century. In 1221 the city and its population were completely wiped out by Genghis Khan. The Qarlughids established their capital in the city soon thereafter. The first European to see Bamyan was William Moorcroft (explorer) about 1824.\nDuring 1998–2001, Bamyan has been the center of combat between Taliban forces and the anti-Taliban alliance; mainly Hizb-i-Wahdat – amid clashes among the warlords of local militia. Bamyan is also known as the capital of Daizangi.\n\nOn the cliff face of a mountain nearby, three colossal statues were carved 4,000 feet apart. One of them was 175 feet (53 m) high standing statue of Buddha, the world's tallest. The ancient statue was carved during the Kushan period in the fifth century. The statues were destroyed by the Taliban in March 2001, on the grounds that they were an affront to Islam, even though they were left intact by Muslim rulers for 1200 years. Limited efforts have been made to rebuild them, with negligible success.\n\nAt one time, two thousand monks meditated in caves among the sandstone cliffs. The caves were also a big tourist attraction before the long series of wars in Afghanistan. The world's earliest oil paintings have been discovered in caves behind the destroyed statues. Scientists from the European Synchrotron Radiation Facility have confirmed that the oil paintings, probably of either walnut or poppy seed oil, are present in 12 of the 50 caves dating from the 5th to 9th century. The murals typically have a white base layer of a lead compound, followed by an upper layer of natural or artificial pigments mixed with either resins or walnut or poppy seed drying oils. Possibly, the paintings may be the work of artists who travelled on the Silk Road.\n\nThe caves at the base of these statues were used by Taliban for storing weapons. After the Taliban were driven from the region, civilians made their homes in the caves. Recently, Afghan refugees escaped the persecution of the Taliban regime by hiding in caves in the Bamiyan valley. These refugees discovered a fantastic collection of Buddhist statues as well as jars holding more than ten thousand fragments of ancient Buddhist manuscripts, a large part of which is now in the Schøyen Collection. This has created a sensation among scholars, and the find has been compared with the discovery of the Dead Sea Scrolls.\n\nFrom 2003–13, a Provincial Reconstruction Team was based in Bamyan, first manned by U.S. forces, and, since about 2003, by personnel from the New Zealand Defence Force. The 34th Division in the area, part of the 4th Corps, was affiliated with Karim Khalili. Bamiyan was one of the first pilot centres for the Afghan New Beginnings Programme of Disarmament, demobilization and reintegration. On 4 July 2004 disarmament began in Bamiyan, and on 15 July 2004 disarmament was continuing in Bamiyan including soldiers from the 34th and 35th Divisions of the then Afghan Army, often referred to as the Afghan Military or Militia Forces.\n\nThe population of this city is estimated to be 100,000 in 2016. Hazaras make up almost entire population of Bamyan.\nBamyan, located in the central highlands, is one of the oldest cities in the country and is widely known for the giant, ancient Buddha statues that were carved into the side of a cliff. \n\n\n\nLangley, British Columbia (city)\n\n"}
{"id": "9099552", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9099552", "title": "Ben Couch", "text": "Ben Couch\n\nManuera Benjamin Riwai Couch (27 June 1925 – 3 June 1996) was a New Zealand politician and rugby union player. He was a team-member of the All Blacks and the New Zealand Māori rugby union team in the 1940s.\n\nCouch was born in 1925 in Christchurch and he grew up on Banks Peninsula. Couch's parents were Methodists and he was largely raised by his grandmother who belonged to the Salvation Army. He attended Christchurch Technical School. He married Bessie Carter, his childhood sweetheart who was a member of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (LDS Church). Couch was in the Royal New Zealand Air Force at the end of World War II but was never sent into battle. At the age of 24 Couch joined the LDS Church. He moved to the Wairarapa in the mid-1940s.\n\nA first five-eighth, Couch represented Wairarapa at a provincial level, and was a member of the New Zealand national side, the All Blacks, from 1947 to 1949. He played seven matches for the All Blacks including three internationals. Of Ngāi Tahu and Ngāti Mutunga descent, he also played 20 matches for New Zealand Māori between 1948 and 1950.\n\nIn the 1975 general election, he was elected to Parliament as the National Party MP for the Wairarapa electorate, thus becoming (with Rex Austin) only the second and third Māori (after Sir James Carroll) to win a general electorate (as opposed to a Māori electorate).\n\nHe served as Minister of Māori Affairs and Minister of Police in the third National Government, but lost his seat in 1984 to Labour's Reg Boorman. While Minister of Police, he called for the birch to be introduced for violent offenders and allowed the police to use longer batons. He created some controversy by wearing a Springbok rugby team blazer at the time of their 1981 tour of New Zealand as well as attending a public meeting organised by the League of Rights. This was despite his having been denied entry to South Africa as part of the All Blacks rugby team in the 1940s because of his race.\n\nIn the 1991 Queen's Birthday Honours Couch was appointed a Companion of the Queen's Service Order for public services.\n\nIn the 1990s he was involved in various Māori organisations.\n\nHe died in 1996 in Masterton.\n"}
{"id": "501387", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=501387", "title": "Bernard Crick", "text": "Bernard Crick\n\nSir Bernard Rowland Crick (16 December 1929 – 19 December 2008) was a British political theorist and democratic socialist whose views can be summarised as \"politics is ethics done in public\". He sought to arrive at a \"politics of action\", as opposed to a \"politics of thought\" or of ideology, and he held that He was a leading critic of behaviouralism.\n\nCrick was born in England, the son of Harry Edgar and Florence Clara Crick, and educated at Whitgift School.. He read Economics at University College London, but terminated his studies there in order to transfer to the London School of Economics (LSE) for his B.Sc. (Econ.) in 1950. While working on his Ph.D. - published in 1958 as \"The American Science of Politics\" - he was a Teaching Fellow at Harvard , 1952-54; Assistant Professor, McGill, 1954-55; Visiting Fellow, Berkeley, 1955-56).. Returning to Great Britain in 1956, he obtained his Ph.D at the LSE and was appointed to an Assistant and later a Senior Lectureship, 1957-65.. \n\nDuring his time at LSE, recollections of which appear in his contribution to \"My LSE\", Crick craved for greater recognition than his Senior Lecturership signified. LSE's promotion system was notoriously slow at the time. When appointed Professor of Political Theory and Political Institutions at Sheffield in 1965 Crick told \"Beaver\", the LSE student newspaper, that he was \"going to a better place from the point of view of teaching students\".. The ambition for a professorship also played its part.\n\nCrick sponsorsed the LSE's new-formed \"Society Against Racial Discrimination\" (1963). The indigenous British, he remarked, should treat immigrant ethnicities \"as equals – and as no more than equals\". An anonymous contributor adds : 'At least one member of audience wondered who proposed treating immigrants as \"more than equals\".'\n\nAny university teacher has to manage the transition from school to university for his or her students. A first-year undergraduate in 1963, Geoffrey Thomas (later of the School of Philosophy, Birkbeck College, London) recalls his naive bewilderment at a clash between authorities. Professor H. R. G. Greaves promoted one view of cabinet collective responsibility in his lectures, and Dr Crick quite another in his classes. \"You might be interested to know,\" Thomas innocently remarked with some bafflement in a tutorial, \"that your views on collective responsiibity are polar opposite to those of Professor Greaves\". \"Then,\" Crick urbanely observed, \"having equal access to both of us you are in a position of unique advantage.\" A student learnt one difference between school and university that afternoon.\n\nCrick's lectures at LSE displayed the freshness of his language – one might approach a subject, he once said, \"with an eye well-dressed with knowledge\" but this is only one of many Crickian metaphors. Crick's sharp but kindly humour should also be noted. Thomas recalls the following: \"There are two questions: whether ideals have an influence on history and whether politics is to be sensibly seen as the attempt to achieve values. Are all ideals the product of circumstance?\" The answer might have been sententious. Instead Crick said: \"Marxism grew out of one messianic, ill-tempered, bearded, boily individual\".\nCrick was an advisor to British Labour Party leader Neil Kinnock during the 1980s. When Labour came to power in 1997, Crick was appointed by his former student David Blunkett to head up an advisory group on citizenship education. The group's final report in 1998, known as the Crick Report, led to the introduction of citizenship as a core subject in the National Curriculum. He was knighted in the 2002 new years honours list for \"services to citizenship in schools and to political studies\". He authored the 2004 Home Office book \"Life in the United Kingdom: A Journey to Citizenship\", which forms the basis for the new citizenship test required by all people naturalising as British citizens.\n\nHe taught for a number of years at the University of Sheffield (1965-71). and founded the Department of Politics at Birkbeck College, University of London in 1972. He was a Vice-President of the British Humanist Association. He took early retirement from Birkbeck in 1984, setting off for Edinburgh to be with his partner, Una MacLean Macintosh. He remained domiciled there, becoming an ardent proponent of a Scottish parliament.\n\nOnce in Scotland, Crick, who eventually came to view himself as an \"honorary Scot\", engaged vigorously with political and civil society in Edinburgh and Scotland as a whole. Thus for instance, he for many years wrote a weekly column for \"The Scotsman\" newspaper and he was active in the Campaign for a Scottish Assembly, which was the precursor to the push for a full Scottish Parliament.\n\nCrick co-authored, with David Millar, an influential pamphlet entitled \"Making Scotland's Parliament Work\". This paper helped drive the move to structure the new parliament and its committees in line with European rather than Westminster norms; this was in fact achieved and the parliament today reflects Crick and Millar's recommendations.\n\nLater in his life in Scotland Crick was delighted to be appointed Stevenson Visiting Professor at Glasgow University. Despite his frail heath at that time, Crick delivered a series of widely praised and very popular public lectures. Upon his death Glasgow University marked his contribution by establishing the Bernard Crick Memorial Lecture.\n\nCrick made many other contributions to Scottish political life, from participating in his local Labour Party, to defending Glenogle Baths from closure, to, in his last weeks of life, penning a humorous Op-Ed for \"The Scotsman\" on the chaos caused by the tram line delays in Edinburgh.\n\nCrick was married three times and divorced twice. His first wife was Joyce Crick, a senior lecturer in German at University College, London, and a translator of Thomas Mann and Sigmund Freud. They married in September 1953 and had two sons. His older son, Olly, is an educator and drama practitioner, who among other things has written a book on Commedia dell'arte. His younger son, Tom, works in international conflict resolution. He married Margaret Emily Cahill in 1978, and his third wife was Freda Edis. They married in December 1989 and later separated. There were no children from the later marriages.\n\nCrick died from prostate cancer at the age of 79, in St. Columba's Hospice, Edinburgh. It had been diagnosed about fourteen years earlier.\n\nCrick was awarded four honorary doctorates. He was made a vice-president of the Political Studies Association of the United Kingdom, which also gave him a lifetime achievement award on its 50th anniversary in 2000. \n\nCrick was knighted in 2002.\n\nAfter his death, the University of Sheffield established the Sir Bernard Crick Centre. The centre aims to 'Bridge a number of gaps that appear to have emerged in recent decades (if not before). The first gap concerns the relationship between the governors and the governed in democratic countries.' The centre also aims to communicate social science to the public – or the social implications of 'hard' scientific advances – without, in doing so, losing those elements of scholarship that provide depth and context.\n\nGlasgow University also recognised Sir Bernard's contribution by establishing an annual memorial lecture series.\n\nIn 1974 Crick started work on a biography of George Orwell with the help of Orwell's second wife Sonia Brownell. The hardback edition rights were used to set up a grant in conjunction with Birkbeck College to fund projects by new writers that would have interested Orwell. In 1980, just before the book was published, a friend of Crick's, David Astor, agreed to match the grant. Over the years there were contributions by Richard Blair, Orwell's adopted son, and also \"The Observer\" newspaper, among others. Due to a lack of discernible projects, after five years the fund was diverted to produce an annual memorial lecture at Birkbeck College and the University of Sheffield, and also to provide small departmental grants. The lectures at Birkbeck continue; in November 2009 the Orwell Lecture was given by Hilary Mantel.\n\nIn 1993 Crick set up the Orwell Prize with sponsorship from \"The Political Quarterly\" to honour political writing. Two awards are given out each year – one for political journalism and the other for a political book. The first awards in 1994 went to Anatol Lieven for his book \"The Baltic Revolution\" and to \"The Independent on Sunday\" journalist Neal Ascherson. Crick was on the judging panel until the 2007 awards.\n\nAccording to Crick, the ideologically driven leader practises a form of anti-politics in which the goal is the mobilisation of the populace towards a common end—even on pain of death. Mao Zedong of China said, \"Power grows from the barrel of a gun,\" and Joseph Stalin of Russia said, \"The Pope? How many battalions does he control?\" Such views, in Crick's estimation, are anti-political, because the speaker seeks to overcome any ethics of his constituency with the threat of violence.\n\nThe \"political virtues\" were an important feature of Crick's classic book \"In Defence of Politics\"; he saw them as an alternative to \"ideology\" or any \"absolute-sounding ethic\". They included but were not limited to:\n\nCrick's first book, \"The American Science of Politics\" (1959), attacked the behavioural approach to politics, which was dominant in the United States, and little known in Britain. He identified and rejected their basic premises: that research can discover uniformities in human behaviour, that these uniformitiess could be confirmed by empirical tests and measurements, that quantitative data was of the highest quality, and should be analysed statistically, that political science should be empirical and predictive, downplaying the philosophical and historical dimensions, and the value-free research was the ideal, with the goal of social science to be a macro theory covering all the social sciences, as opposed to applied issues of practical reform.\n\nCrick's works include:\n\n"}
{"id": "37072624", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37072624", "title": "Branković family tree", "text": "Branković family tree\n\nThis is a family tree of the Branković dynasty, which ruled the Serbian Despotate from 1427 to 1459, and descendants of members of the Branković family until the 16th century.\n"}
{"id": "678525", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=678525", "title": "Butch Warren", "text": "Butch Warren\n\nEdward Rudolph \"Butch\" Warren Jr. (August 9, 1939 – October 5, 2013) was an American jazz bassist who was active during the 1950s and '60s.\n\nWarren's mother was a typist. His father, Edward Sr., was an electronics technician who played piano and organ part-time in clubs in Washington, D.C. The Warren home was often visited by jazz musicians Billy Hart, Jimmy Smith, and Stuff Smith. The first time Butch Warren played bass was at home on a instrument left by Billy Taylor, who had played bass for Duke Ellington. Warren has cited Jimmy Blanton, another Ellington bassist, as his biggest inspiration.\n\nWarren began playing professionally at age 14 in a Washington, D.C. band led by his father. He later worked with other local groups, including that of Stuff Smith, as well as with altoist and bandleader Rick Henderson at the Howard Theatre.\n\nWhen he was 19, he sat in with Kenny Dorham to substitute for an absent trumpeter. A few days later, Dorham invited him to New York City, where he spent the next six months as a sideman at a club in Brooklyn. He appeared on his first recording in January 1960 with Dorham, saxophonist Charles Davis, pianist Tommy Flanagan, and drummer Buddy Enlow. Through his friendship with Sonny Clark he recorded for Blue Note Records in 1961 on Clark's album \"Leapin' and Lopin' \". Alfred Lion, president of Blue Note, hired Warren to fill the vacancy of staff bassist. During this job he played on \"Watermelon Man\" with Herbie Hancock. As sideman, he also recorded with Miles Davis, Hank Mobley, Donald Byrd, Dexter Gordon, Joe Henderson, Jackie McLean, and Stanley Turrentine.\n\nMental illness and heroin addiction created problems for Warren. In 1963, his friend Sonny Clark died of an overdose. Months later, Thelonious Monk hired the 23-year-old Warren. Monk's band was surrounded by drugs and Warren quit after a yearlong tour. Moving back to D.C., he admitted himself to St. Elizabeths Hospital. He was diagnosed with paranoid schizophrenia.\n\nFollowing the onset of his illness he played professionally only occasionally, including a regular gig at the jazz club Columbia Station in Washington D.C.\n\nHis only solo effort was captured on \"Butch's Blues\" but he was better known as a sideman on many albums, including Dexter Gordon's \"Go\"\n\n\nWith Donald Byrd\n\nWith Kenny Dorham\n\nWith Dexter Gordon\n\nWith Jackie McLean\n\nWith Hank Mobley\n\nWith Thelonious Monk\n\nWith others\n\n"}
{"id": "49928972", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49928972", "title": "Denis Shafikov", "text": "Denis Shafikov\n\nDenis Fuatovich Shafikov (, ; born 3 June 1985) is a Russian professional boxer. He held the European super-lightweight title from 2011 to 2013, and has challenged three times for the IBF lightweight title. As of November 2017, Shafikov is ranked as the world's fifth best active lightweight by \"The Ring\" magazine and seventh by the Transnational Boxing Rankings Board.\n\nBorn into a Russian-Bashkir family, Shafikov did not immediately take a liking to boxing when trying out different sports in childhood. He nonetheless began his amateur boxing career at 13 years old, in which he had \"about 90 amateur fights and lost only 6 of them.\" His decision to turn professional was based on wanting to earn money for his family, rather than medals.\n\nShafikov has been trained by Abel Sanchez since 2015. He made his professional debut on 30 November 2003, winning a four-round unanimous decision over Pavel Lyakhov, who also debuted. For the next eleven years, Shafikov would remain undefeated while fighting mainly in Finland, having moved there in 2007. On 29 October 2010, he fought to a majority draw against Brunet Zamora, with the regional WBA Inter-Continental light-welterweight title on the line. A year later, on 23 September 2011, Shafikov won his first major regional championship—the European light-welterweight title—by forcing veteran contender Giuseppe Lauri to retire in his corner. Two successful defences of the title were made in 2012: the first was against Lee McAllister on 25 February, which ended in an eighth-round corner retirement. The second was a rematch with Zamora on 31 May, which Shafikov won via unanimous decision.\n\nOn 22 February 2014, Shafikov travelled to Macau to face IBF lightweight champion Miguel Vázquez. In what was described as a \"lightweight title fight that completely sucked the air out of [the] venue\" due to \"clinching, headbutts and lots of other matters that don't quite reflect actual fighting\", Vázquez went on to hand Shafikov his first professional loss in a lacklustre unanimous decision. The following year, on 18 December, Shafikov received another opportunity to fight for the vacant IBF lightweight title, this time against Rances Barthelemy, but lost again via unanimous decision. Shafikov returned on 2 July 2016 in emphatic style, beating down and stopping undefeated lightweight prospect Jamel Herring in the tenth and final round. On 30 June 2017, in his third world title challenge, Shafikov lost a competitive unanimous decision against IBF lightweight champion Robert Easter Jr., in a hard-hitting slugfest.\n\nDespite his nickname of \"Genghis Khan\", Shafikov is of Bashkir rather than Mongol ethnicity. The nickname was given to him by his Finnish promoter Pekka Mäki, with Shafikov saying that he wants to \"conquer the world as Genghis Khan did.\" His favourite boxers include Mike Tyson and Manny Pacquiao.\n\n"}
{"id": "58593302", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58593302", "title": "Esther Muchemi", "text": "Esther Muchemi\n\nEsther Muchemi, accountant, businesswoman, entrepreneur and corporate executive in Kenya, who serves as the group chief executive officer of the Samchi Group of Companies, a diverse Kenyan conglomerate, whose companies span telecommunications, microfinance, hospitality, real estate, restaurants and ICT.\n\nEsther was born in Kenya and attended local schools for her primary and secondary education. She graduated from the University of Nairobi with a Bachelor of Commerce degree. She then trained as an accountant and practiced as an auditor for twenty years, before striking out as an entrepreneur, on her own. She is also a Certified Public Accountant (CPA), with the Institute of Certified Public Accountants of Kenya.\n\nFor a period of 16 years, dating back to 1984, Esther Muchemi was employed in the accounting industry as an auditor. In 2000, she quit her regular employment and opened a retail shop on \"Koinange Street\", in downtown Nairobi, Kenya's capital city, selling Safaricom sim-cards and airtime. Over the years she slowly expanded her empire into an investment group with nearly a dozen businesses.\n\nEsther organizes her businesses under the umbrella known as the \"Samchi Group of Companies\"'. The group includes: (a) Samchi Telecommunications Limited (b) Jumbo Communications Limited (c) Forward Airtime Limited and (d) Mergut Limited. These first four are all in the telecommunications sector.\n\nOther companies in the group are: (e) Samchi Credit Limited, a microfinance company (f) Samchi Heights Limited, a real estate development company (g) After 40 Hotel Limited, located along Biashara Street in Nairobi (h) El-Roi Plaza, a shopping arcade located along Tom Mboya Street in Nairobi (i) Heavenly Wings Limited, a restaurant within El-Roi Plaza and (j) a virtual office company called Space International Limited. In 2018, the Samchi Group employed a total of 560 individuals.\n\nIn 201, Esther Muchemi was the recipient of the \"2017 Global Inspirational Women Leadership Award\", awarded by the Centre for Economic and Leadership Development. She received the award at The 2017 South America–Africa–Middle East–Asia Women Summit, held in Dubai, United Arab Emirates. In the same year, she was inducted into \"Amazon’s 100 Global Women Leaders Hall of Fame\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50097445", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50097445", "title": "Frances Ann Conant", "text": "Frances Ann Conant\n\nFrances Ann Conant (1831–1875), also known as J. H. Conant, was an American spiritualist medium.\n\nConant was born in Portsmouth, New Hampshire, on April 28, 1831. Luther Colby, editor of the spiritualist newspaper the \"Banner of Light\", gave Conant free public séances for seventeen years in Boston which were reported in the newspaper. Spiritualists claimed that Conant made contact with the spirit of a deceased Boston physician who was alleged to have made diagnoses of disease and made treatments. The \"Boston Courier\" criticized the reports, and Professor Cornelius Conway Felton claimed that Conant was known for making fanatical and wild statements.\n\nThe impresario P. T. Barnum included an exposure of Conant in his 1865 book \"The Humbugs of the World\". He suggested that Conant had impersonated the spirits and found information about her sitters by looking at obituary notices from newspapers.\n\n"}
{"id": "16204732", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16204732", "title": "Franklin M. Davis Jr.", "text": "Franklin M. Davis Jr.\n\nFranklin Milton Davis Jr. (1918–1980) was an author and major general in the United States Army.\n\nGeneral Davis had a B.A. in Economics/English from the University of Massachusetts and a M.A. degree in International Affairs from George Washington University.\n\nDavis had military participation in both World War II and the Vietnam War.\n\nDavis served as a brigadier general during the Vietnam War and commanded the 199th Light Infantry Brigade from May 1968 to July 1969. Davis' brigade operated in the Long Binh and Duc Hoa regions of Vietnam. While in Vietnam Davis was wounded in action (WIA).\n\nDavis was a commandant of the U.S. Army War College from 1971 to 1974.\n\nDavis's principal awards and decorations included the Distinguished Service Medal, the Distinguished Flying Cross, the Legion of Merit, the Purple Heart, and the Bronze Star Medal with V for Valor. His wartime service included three major campaigns in World War II in Europe, and four in the war in Vietnam.\n\nDavis was a practitioner of Transcendental Meditation and advocated its use to reduce the stress of soldiers. He was also a founding member of the Board of Trustees at Maharishi International University (MIU) (now called Maharishi University of Management). At MIU, General Davis was also an International Resource Faculty member for the United States in Military Science.\n\nIn 1950, Davis wrote for a contest that was designed to \"stimulate creative writing among [military] personnel during their off-duty time.\" He was among three winners of the Army-wide writing contest. One of the prizes for the honor was to be published in \"Collier's\" magazine.\n\nDavis wrote books of fiction and historical nonfiction. Two of his early books were published with his military rank attached to his name: \"Col. Franklin M. Davis Jr.\":\nDavis' books published without rank are:\n\n"}
{"id": "2196608", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2196608", "title": "Hainan people", "text": "Hainan people\n\nThe Hainan people (Chinese: 海南人), also known as Hainanese or Hainam nang (in Hainanese dialect, are the native people (including Han Chinese) who originate from Hainan, the southernmost and smallest Chinese province. The term \"Hainanese\" was frequently used by Hainanese-speaking Han Chinese (), who are the majority in the island, to identify themselves overseas. Nevertheless, other natives of the island such as Hlai (), Yao ( \"Miao people\") and Utsuls also use the term.\n\nMost Hainanese Han people were originally fisherfolk from the Chinese provinces of Fujian, Guangdong and Guangxi who later settled in the island of Hainan, while the Li natives came to the island earlier and were descendants of the Yue tribe, from mainland China. Many ancestors of the Southern Min Hainanese-speaking people came from Putian city in Fujian province as Jinshi and military personnel settlers and in some areas barbarians like Li people assimilated into their race too, while all of the ancestors of the Danzhou-speaking people came from Guangdong. As a result of the assimilation of other dialect groups, most Hainanese genetically cluster with Han Chinese from Guangdong and Guangxi instead of Fujianese people.\n\nSimilarly to Fujian and Guangdong provinces, Hainan has been a source for immigrants. Towards the turn of the 20th century, many Hainanese migrated to various Southeast Asian nations, where they worked as cooks, restaurateurs, coffee shop owners, clothesmakers, sailors and hoteliers. Chan Sing, one of the \"villain\" movie stars that dotted the Hong Kong movie industry was of Hainanese ancestry, as was the bartender who invented the world-famous Singapore Sling at the renowned Singapore Raffles Hotel, Mr. Ngiam Tong Boon. In Thailand, singer Nichkhun of 2PM, media mogul Sondhi Limthongkul, the politically influential Sarasin family, as well as two of the wealthiest business families, the Chirathivats and the Yoovidhyas, all trace their ancestries to Hainan.\n\nIn Hainan, the local Han Chinese speak Hainanese, a Min Chinese language also known as \"Qiongwen\", as their native tongue. The dialect of Wenchang (文昌) is spoken by Hainanese from the northern parts of Hainan. Numerous Wenchang Hainanese descended from Jinshi and merchants from Putian as many of their Jiapu show. This is also why they pronounce some words with the Hokkien twang (example: close door is \"gieh mui\" for other Hainanese dialects. Wenchang pronounce as \"gueh mui', similar just like in Hokkien \"gui mng\"). Today, many Wenchang Hainanese still return to Putian for ancestors tomb cleaning (清明). With Hainan's proximity to Guangdong and Guangxi, some locals can also understand and speak Cantonese. Standard Chinese (phonologically based on Beijing Mandarin) is also the lingua franca in the island province as in the rest of China.\n\nThe Hainanese are known for their signature dishes such as the Hainanese chicken rice, Wenchang chicken, Hainanese pork chop, Hainanese mutton soup, Hainanese salted fish soup and beef noodle soup.\n\nNotably, in Singapore, these signature dishes are served at the various eateries located along Purvis Street, within the Hainanese enclave; as a result, Purvis Street is often referred to as \"Hainan Second Street\", while Middle Road and Seah Street are referred to as \"Hainan First Street\" and \"Hainan Third Street\" respectively. Hainanese chicken rice is a recognised dish throughout Southeast Asia due to the Hainanese diaspora in these areas who famed it. It is often labelled as Singapore's national dish.\n\nHainanese opera (Qiong opera) is a passion for many Hainanese, particularly for the older generation. Enriched with local flavours, Hainanese opera is part and parcel of Hainanese culture.\n\n"}
{"id": "18714732", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18714732", "title": "Han Ling", "text": "Han Ling\n\nHan Ling 韩玲 (born 27 October 1985 in Bobai, Guangxi) is a female Chinese sprinter who specializes in the 200 metres.\n\nAt the 2006 Asian Games she finished fourth in the 200 metres, won a gold medal in the 4 × 100 m relay and a bronze medal in the 4 × 400 m relay.\n\nShe represented her country in the 4 x 400 metres relay event at the 2008 Summer Olympics. She won the relay gold medal for Guangxi at the 11th Chinese National Games in 2009.\n\nHan has also competed in the 60 metres, having finished fourth at the 2007 Asian Indoor Games and won the silver medal behind compatriot Jiang Lan at the 2010 Asian Indoor Athletics Championships.\n\nHer personal best time is 23.41 seconds, achieved in August 2006 in Shijiazhuang. In the 100 metres she has 11.96 seconds, achieved in June 2006 in Korat.\n\n"}
{"id": "570450", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=570450", "title": "Hothead Paisan", "text": "Hothead Paisan\n\nHothead Paisan: Homicidal Lesbian Terrorist is an alternative comic written and drawn by Diane DiMassa. It features the title character wreaking violent vengeance on male oppressors. Recurring characters include Hothead's cat Chicken, her friend Roz, a talking lamp, and transgender love interest Daphne.\n\nThe series began in 1991, published under the imprint Giant Ass Publishing, and ran to 21 issues, which were originally collected and published as two volumes: \"Hothead Paisan\" and \"The Revenge of Hothead Paisan\". These volumes were later combined and republishes as a 428-page trade paperback, \"The Complete Hothead Paisan\", the page-count of which includes a 10-page comic strip introduction to the main character.\n\nAccording to Gabrielle Dean, the character of Hothead represents a \"phallicized dyke\" who is \"at the mercy of her own rage against society, which she expresses by castrating men who are exaggerated stand-ins for the patriarchal order\".\n\nIn 2004, a version was staged as a musical, produced by Animal Prufrock at the Michigan Womyn's Music Festival. The all-star cast enlisted by Animal includes Ani DiFranco, Susan \"Stop The Insanity\" Powter, Ubaka Hill, Toshi Reagon, Julie Wolf, Kate Wolf, and Allyson Palmer of BETTY, among others.\n\n"}
{"id": "55876651", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55876651", "title": "Ilhama Guliyeva", "text": "Ilhama Guliyeva\n\nIlhama Guliyeva (17 August 1943, Lankaran, Azerbaijani SSR — 25 February 2016, Baku, Azerbaijan) was an Azerbaijani celebrity, actress and singer of Azerbaijani folk and classical music. Throughout active musical-stage career, Ilhama Guliyeva gained popular success in her respective genre of music and received such major state-level honors as Honored Artist of Azerbaijani SSR in 1982, People's Artist of the Republic of Azerbaijan in 1998 and People's Artist of the Republic of Dagestan in 2007.\n\nIlhama Guliyeva was born on August 17, 1943 in Lankaran, Azerbaijani SSR. Her mother – , was a popular Azerbaijani singer and khanende, and father – Mazahir Guliyev, worked as a prosecutor in Lankaran. Due to his job appointment, Ilhama Guliyeva spent her very early years in Shaki city of Azerbaijan. However, when Ilhama reaches the age of six, her parents divorce. Ilhama Guliyeva's mother, moving to Baku, marries a famous Azerbaijani tar player – , who later becomes a supportive stepfather that actively engages in growing up and educating Ilhama Guliyeva.\n\nAt this early age, she gets enrolled in a 7-year musical school for piano training in Baku. As Guliyeva finishes both musical and high schools, with a great desire she wants to build her profession in the musical field. Nevertheless, young Ilhama faces definitive dissent from her parents. Taking into account the difficulties of music, they try to inspire her to master another art. Therefore, she enters the faculty of philology of the Azerbaijan State University in 1960 and continues non-musical studies in subsequent years. In 1964, Ilhama Guliyeva graduates from the university, but like every talented person with high musical intelligence, young Guliyeva could not get away from music.\n\nIn 1963, with the support of Ziniat Alizadeh, who was in close relations with Guliyeva's family, she starts performing at the university's \"\"Sevinj\" pop ensemble. As Guliyeva's parents still oppressed her passion for music, these musical activities were kept in secret from her family. In 1964, a competition of young talents from all over the world was held in Moscow. By the request of Mrs. Zinyat, Ilhama Guliyeva gets permission from her family and flies to Russia. Her family thought she was going to the festival as a spectator. Competing with young singers from many countries, Ilhama Guliyeva performs the songs of Rauf Hajiyev and Tofig Guliyev. As Guliyeva becomes the winner of the competition, she returns to Baku and gets invited to perform at the orchestra of the Azerbaijan State Television and Radio Broadcasting Company (AzTV). Starting from 1965 until 1970, Ilhama Gulliyeva starts performing songs composed by Khayyam Mirzazade, Tofig Bakikhanov and Emin Sabitoglu in various genres of pop music, such as slow rock, jazz, R & B, soul and blues, as a soloist of the orchestra, headed by .\n\nFrom 1970 until 1980, Ilhama Guliyeva performed at various stages as a soloist of the Azerbaijan State Philharmonic Hall. In 1972, \"The Evening of Azerbaijani Composers\" gets held in the House of the Unions in Moscow where Guliyeva performs several songs. After the concert, a promimnent Azerbaijani composer Fikrat Amirov meets with Guliyeva and promises to compose art songs for her. Such songs as \"Mən səni araram\", \"Göy Göl\", \"Gülür ellər gülür\", \"Gülərəm gülsən\", \"Toy mahnısı/Toydur bugün\" and \"De görüm neyləmişəm\"\" became wonderful musical outputs of their cooperation, which went down in history of Azerbaijani music since then. Each of these songs is accompanied by folk instruments and orchestra, and has its own unique and colorful shades peculiar to Azerbaijani folk music. In the late 1970s, accompanied by the Musical ensemble \"Dan Ulduzu\", which was headed by Gulala Aliyeva, Ilhama Guliyeva performs many art songs of such outstanding Azerbaijani composers as , , , Arif Malikov, Ahmad Bakikhanov etc. Since then, Ilhama Guliyeva goes on tours to foreign countries (England, Spain, Denmark, Turkey, Germany etc.) and represents Azerbaijani music on the world stage.\n\nAfter the death of in 1994, stopped performing and quit the musical stage. This heavily affects Ilhama Guliyeva, and she quits singing for a short period of time. After several years, Guliyeva starts to cooperate with an Azerbaijani composer and performs such popular in Azerbaijan lyrical songs as \"\"Neylərsən\", \"Kaman\", \"Bilsən necə darıxmışam\" etc. In the beginning of the first decade of the 2000s, Guliyeva performed such songs as \"Gedirəm\", \"Unut Məni\", \"Unuda bilməzsən\"\" and \"Yaşın nə fərqi var ki?/Love knows no age\" which became appellative and the most popular song of Guliyeva's repertoire. This and other series of lyrical songs of Guliyeva contributed to transformation of Azerbaijani music. Since the beginning of the second decade of the 2000s, Guliyeva became the venerable elderly artist in the field of music in Azerbaijan, and young artists began making cover versions of art songs that she used to sing.\n\nIn the beginning of the 2000s, Ilhama Guliyeva publicly supports a new candidate for presidency – Ilham Aliyev. She gives concerts in the regions of Azerbaijan, runs her propaganda and makes a worthy contribution to Ilham Aliyev's successful election. Moreover, in 2002, Guliyeva receives the status of \"\"International Cultural Executor\" at the World Women's Congress in Beirut, the title of \"The Art Queen of the Turkic World\" in Turkey and four Humay Awards in Azerbaijan. Since 2003, together with a group of intelligent Azerbaijani women, Ilhama Guliyeva participated in several UN Geneva meetings and defended the rights of Azerbaijani women and children who had been affected by the Nagorno-Karabakh conflict. In 2004, at various conferences, symposiums and protest rallies in Goteborg, Strasbourg, Paris, Istanbul and in front of the building of European Parliament in Brussels, Guliyeva had comprehensive public speeches on Armenian occupation of Azerbaijani internationally recognized territories. As the result of active socio-political participation, Guliyeva was elected as the president of the \"Academy of Culture\" under the World Congress of Azerbaijanis/ in 2004. In 2007, at the headquarters of the Universal Peace Federation in Washington DC, Guliyeva received the status of Goodwill Ambassador. \n\nIlhama Guliyeva created a short-term family life with Faig Mirmohsunov in the 1980s. During this very short marriage period, she adopted the surname of her spouse. However, she ended this marriage shortly and returned to her original last name. Moreover, Guliyeva adobted a child – Orkhan Nadirov, who is claimed to be a grandson of Guliyeva's aunt.\n\nIlhama Guliyeva was a very peculiar musical artist with flamboyant personality. Despite that Guliyeva was respected and loved for her voice and songs, she constantly faced public criticism and dissent towards her personality. Considering the fact that the major segment of Azerbaijani society is conservative with traditional values, this persistent negative attitude towards Guliyeva was due to her liberal behavior with regard to love affairs in the 1980s and 90s. However, nowadays it is an interesting scene to observe when foreign musical artists with no greater decent \"ethical\" background visit Azerbaijan, the people rush to highly greet and express their deep respect towards them in concert halls and social media. Considering these vestiges as a temporary phenomenon of a developing society, she never took them seriously, continued to actively participate in musical life of the country and became a leading musical artist of so-called show business in Azerbaijan.\n\nGuliyeva was hegemonic, loved glory and honor, as well as demanded respectful attitude from everyone. This made her get into numerous conflicts with many other musical artists of Azerbaijan. Her major disputes were with such Azerbaijani singers as , , Aygün Kazımova and Brilliant Dadashova. Although she had a good and friendly relationship with all her colleagues at the end of her life, the only artist with whom she had not put up since the beginning of her musical career was another People's Artist of Azerbaijan Flora Kerimova. Despite that in 1995, during the joint interview with Kerimova and Guliyeva, they claimed not to be rivals since the genres of music they performed were different, it is not a secret that the issues as \"who would go on stage to perform first\" or \"who would record a song of popular composer before anyone else\" were ones of the main causes of their enmity. Since Kerimova went on streets against newly elected Azerbaijani government in 2003, she became unwelcomed and later left her active musical career. However, as TV channels were inviting Kerimova to talk shows, she used to insult Guliyeva, naming her a \"disgrace to the musical stage and art, as well as to the Azerbaijani nation\". Yet, while Guliyeva in her public and TV speeches held Kerimova in high esteem, Kerimova's attitude towards Guliyeva didn't change throughout time.\nStarting from 2016, Ilhama Guliyeva had heart failure simptoms. Having full of vigour and enthusiasm, Ilhama Guliyeva died of thromboembolism on February 25, 2016. Despite the fact that ambulance service arrived on time, her health condition had already deteriorated. On February 26, 2016, Ilhama Guliyeva was buried next to her mother and stepfather in the Second Alley of Honor in Baku. The reason of the death of Ilhama Guliyeva was investigated and revealed by \"the Court of Medical Expertise and Pathological Anatomy\" of Azerbaijan. \nAs a sign of respect towards Guliyeva's musical creativity, such Azerbaijani high ranking social and political figures as President Ilham Aliyev, Prime Minister Artur Rasizade, Speaker of National Assembly Ogtay Asadov, Minister of Culture and Tourism Abulfaz Garayev, People's Artist of USSR and Azerbaijan Zeynab Khanlarova, composer Eldar Mansurov and others signed obituary and expressed their condolences to Guliyeva's family members: \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41228350", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41228350", "title": "Jake Files", "text": "Jake Files\n\nJake C. Files (born March 27, 1972) is a Republican politician from Fort Smith, Arkansas. Files represented portions of the Arkansas River Valley in the Arkansas House of Representatives from 1999 to 2003, and in the Arkansas Senate from 2011 to 2018.\n\nHe pleaded guilty in 2018 to wire fraud, bank fraud and money laundering relating to misuse of the state's surplus money and was sentenced to 18 months in prison.\n\nA native of Norman, Oklahoma, Files graduated cum laude with a bachelor's degree in accounting from Arkansas State University in Jonesboro. Previously, he had attended Ouachita Baptist University in Arkadelphia. He is the owner of FFH Construction, a general construction firm. From 1997 to 2004, he was the president and superintendent of the Fort Smith Christian School. Prior to that, he was hired to help start operations of the Baldor Electric Company plant in Ozark, Arkansas, as the accountant and materials manager. He and his wife, the former Michaela K. Mitchell (born 1977), have four children, Kate, Liz, Bella, and Mitchell, and are active members of Grand Avenue Baptist Church, a Southern Baptist congregation in Fort Smith. The senator coaches Little League baseball and basketball.\n\nFrom 1999 to 2003, he represented District 12 in the Arkansas House of Representatives. Files was first elected to the State Senate in 2010 in District 13. His district number was switched through redistricting from District 13 to District 8, effective January 2013, and his district boundaries changed to include most of the cities of Greenwood and Hackett. He served on Senate committees for Revenue & Taxation, Transportation, Technology, Legislative Affairs, Joint Budget, and Senate Efficiency. He was also a member of the Joint (House and Senate) Legislative Committee on Auditing. He was chairman of the Revenue and Taxation Committee.\n\nIn early 2017, Files was accused of submitting false bids for the River Valley Sports Complex, a planned park of softball fields at Chaffee Crossing in Fort Smith. Though initially denying the charges, Files pleaded guilty to wire fraud, bank fraud and money laundering in the United States District Court for the Western District of Arkansas in January 2018. He resigned his senate seat in February.\n\nThe plea agreement says Files and Lee Webb, a member of the Sebastian County Election Commission, convinced the City of Fort Smith to appropriate $1.6 million for the project in 2014. Files then created three fictitious companies to bid for the project. He later proposed steering $150,000 of public funds from the state's General Improvement Fund (GIF) to the project. Files had control over the funds, and was chairman of the Senate Revenue and Taxation Committee. He pleaded guilty, and was sentenced to 18 months in prison and ordered to pay $83,900 in restitution.\n"}
{"id": "5236928", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5236928", "title": "James Bama", "text": "James Bama\n\nJames Elliott Bama (born April 28, 1926, Washington Heights, New York) is an American artist known for his realistic paintings and etchings of Western subjects. Life in Wyoming led to his comment, \"Here an artist can trace the beginnings of Western history, see the first buildings, the oldest wagons, saddles and guns, and be up close to the remnants of Indian culture ... And you can stand surrounded by nature's wonders.\"\n\nBorn in Manhattan in 1926, he grew up copying Alex Raymond's \"Flash Gordon\" comic strip. He had his first professional sale when he was 15, a drawing of Yankee Stadium in the \"New York Journal-American\". He graduated from New York's High School of Music and Art and entered the Army Air Corps, working as a mechanic, mural painter, and physical training instructor.\n\nWhen discharged from the service, and back in New York City, he studied drawing and anatomy at the Art Students League. Beginning in 1951, he was an illustrator at New York's Charles E. Cooper Studios for 15 years. His first paperback cover was Nelson Nye's \"A Bullet for Billy the Kid\" (1950). Bama had a 22-year career as a successful commercial artist, producing paperback book covers, movie posters and illustrations for such publications as \"Argosy\", \"The Saturday Evening Post\" and \"Reader's Digest\", and his numerous clients included the New York Giants football team, the Baseball and Football Halls of Fame and the U.S. Air Force. Beginning with \"The Man of Bronze\" (1964), he did a powerful set of 62 covers for the \"Doc Savage\" Bantam Books paperbacks, often using as a model actor Steve Holland, star of TV's \"Flash Gordon\" (1954–55). He also painted the box cover art for Aurora's monster model kits, including King Kong, Frankenstein, Dracula and The Mummy.\n\nIn 1964 he married Lynne Klepfer, a New York University graduate with an art history major. Two years later, in June, 1966, the couple headed west as guests of artist Bob Meyers at his Circle M ranch near Cody, Wyoming. Meyers had walked out on his career as a successful Manhattan illustrator with such magazines as \"True\" and \"The Saturday Evening Post\" to run his ranch and paint. After return visits in 1967, the Bamas left New York and moved during September, 1968, into a cabin on Meyers’ ranch. Bama began to paint contemporary Western subjects during the daytime while doing his freelance illustrations in the evenings. He recalled, \"I never came out here with the idea to be a Western artist. It just happened, and that’s the way it should be.\"\n\nIn 1970 Bob Meyers was murdered, and his widow Helen moved from the ranch. The Bamas moved to a house on Dunn Creek, Wapiti, 20 miles outside Cody, in 1971. In May, 1971, Bama connected with a New York dealer, prompting his decision to abandon illustration and put his total concentration into the creation of easel paintings. In Wapiti, James and Lynne Bama built a home and studio, moving into it when their son Ben was born in 1977.\n\nHis work is collected in \"The Western Art of James Bama\" (Bantam Books, 1975) and \"The Art of James Bama\" (1993). Brian M. Kane's \"James Bama: American Realist\" (Flesk, 2006) has an introduction by Harlan Ellison.\n\nBama's art is realism. He sometimes takes advantage of his medium to use lighting techniques—such as butterfly lighting—that would not be practical in a photograph taken under ambient light.\n\nBama was inducted into the Illustrator’s Hall of Fame on June 28, 2000. At the Buffalo Bill Historical Center, when he was the first Honored Artist at the Buffalo Bill Art Show in 2003, Bama commented, \"Everything I’ve done — the rodeo, the trappers, the mountain men — has been done around here. The fact that I’m from Cody makes this very significant to me. They’re really honoring Cody and the Buffalo Bill Historical Center.\"\n\nHe was inducted into the Monster Kid Hall Of Fame at The Rondo Hatton Classic Horror Awards.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2553176", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2553176", "title": "Jean Amrouche", "text": "Jean Amrouche\n\nJean el Mouhouv Amrouche (7 February 1906 in Ighil Ali, Algeria – 16 April 1962 in Paris, France) was an Algerian francophone writer, poet and journalist.\n\nJean el Mouhouv Amrouche was born February 7, 1906 in Ighil Ali, in the valley of Soumman, in petite Kabylie. Amrouche emigrated with his family to Tunisia while still young. Jean had his secondary education at Alaoui college and then left for the \"Ecole Normale Superieure de Saint-Cloud\". He intends to become a teacher. The poet Armand Guibert made him known in Tunisia by publishing his two collections of poems, \"Cendres\" (poems 1928–1934) in 1934 and \"Étoile secrète\" in 1937. He wrote at that time (poems, literary criticism) in Tunisian journals and gave lectures at the \"Cercle de l'Essor\" in Tunis. For several years with his friend Armand Guibert, he visited many countries in Europe. In 1943, he joined the Ministry of Information in Algiers, then the Radiodiffusion Française.\n\nHe was the older brother of fellow writer Taos Amrouche. Both were the children of Fadhma Aït Mansour, author of \"History of My Life\".\n\nHe died in 16 April 1962 at his home in Paris; he is buried in Sargé-sur-Braye in Loir-et-Cher.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13869411", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13869411", "title": "John Hollingshead", "text": "John Hollingshead\n\nJohn Hollingshead (9 September 1827 – 9 October 1904) was an English theatrical impresario, journalist and writer during the latter half of the 19th century. After a journalism career, Hollingshead managed the Alhambra Theatre and was later the first manager of the Gaiety Theatre, London. Hollingshead also wrote several books during his life.\n\nAn innovative producer, Hollingshead brought Gilbert and Sullivan together in 1871 to produce their first joint work, a musical extravaganza called \"Thespis\". Among other theatrical works that he produced, he mounted a long series of popular Victorian burlesques at the Gaiety, engaging Meyer Lutz to compose original scores for them. He also produced operettas, plays and other works. These productions made stars of Nellie Farren and several others. At the Gaiety, in 1878, Hollingshead was the first theatre manager to light his auditorium with electric lights.\n\nHollingshead was born in Hoxton, Greater London, the son of Henry Randall Hollingshead. He was educated at Homerton. He first worked as a bookkeeper for a soft goods company in London in the early 1850s while publishing political essays on finance and social reform. He soon entered into a partnership as a clothing merchant. During this time, Hollingshead and his friend Moy Thomas began publishing a penny paper called \"The Mail\" that proved unsuccessful. In 1854, he decided to close his clothing business and begin working as a writer full-time. By 1855, Hollingshead was married with two children. He died in London at the age of 77.\n\nHollingshead started his journalism career in 1854 under the tutelage of Charles Dickens at \"Household Words\" magazine and then under W. M. Thackeray at \"Cornhill Magazine\". In 1861, he acted as the \"special correspondent\" for \"The Morning Post\" during the London famine. He also wrote essays, short stories and dramatic criticism. Beginning in 1864, and for several years thereafter, he contributed to \"Punch magazine\", mostly writing on political topics related to social reform. He advocated the principles of Mill and Jeremy Bentham. One of his best-known essays was an 1857 piece called \"The City of Unlimited Paper\", which became famous during the monetary panic of 1857. In the 1860s he was on the staff of \"Good Words\" under Norman Macleod as editor.\n\nHollingshead wrote a number of books from the 1850s into the 1860s, including \"On the canal: a narrative of a voyage from London to Birmingham\" (1858); \"Under Bow Bells\" (1860, a collection of some of his essays), \"Rubbing the Gilt Off\" (a collection of his early political essays (1860) \"Odd Journeys\" (1860, a collection of travels), \"Ways of Life\" (1861, a volume of humorous papers), \"Ragged London\" (1861, a collection of his reports for the \"Morning Post\"), and \"Underground London\" (1862). Other publications included a collection of humorous stories entitled \"Rough Diamonds\" and two volumes of miscellaneous essays called \"Today\". He also wrote plays.\nIn the 1880s, Hollingshead returned to writing, producing books mostly about the theatre, including \"Plain English\" (1880), and \"Footlights\" (1883). Beginning in the 1890s, he wrote a number of memoirs and more books about the theatres that he had managed. In 1892, he also published \"The Story of Leicester Square\", tracing the history, geography and architecture of the London neighbourhood from earliest times through the date of publication. His memoir entitled \"My Lifetime\", published in 1895, explores his life and career through that date.\n\nIn the 1860s, Hollingshead turned to theatre management. He helped establish the Alhambra Theatre and was the stage manager there from 1865 to 1868, in addition to producing musical pieces and ballets there. He made it famous for its sumptuous staging, alluring corps de ballet and the notorious front-of-house Promenade bar, where the young ladies of the ballet hinted at more than terpsichorean pleasure.\nDuring his tenure at the Alhambra, Hollingshead introduced London audiences to the Can-Can. Hollingshead is also credited with inventing the practice of holding general matinées. Hollingshead was one of the first London theatre managers to eliminate fees for programmes and coat check.\n\nHe left the Alhambra to manage the newly redesigned Gaiety Theatre. In addition, Hollingshead managed shows at the Opera Comique from time to time. He produced a revival of Gilbert's \"Princess Toto\" there in 1881, paired with Rutland Barrington's short play, \"Quid Pro Quo\".\n\nIn 1868, Hollingshead took over the Gaiety Theatre, which had been a large music hall. The auditorium was rebuilt and, under Hollingshead, it became a venue primarily for musical burlesque, variety, continental operetta, including several operettas by Jacques Offenbach, and light comedy, under Hollingshead's management, from 1868 to 1886. The theatre opened on 21 December 1868, with the successful \"Robert the Devil\", by W. S. Gilbert, a burlesque of the opera \"Robert le Diable\". Gilbert also wrote \"An Old Score\" for the theatre in 1869. Another early production was Alfred Thompson's \"Columbus!, or the Original Pitch in a Merry Key\" (1869). Nellie Farren starred in both \"Columbus\" and \"Robert the Devil\". She continued as \"Principal Boy\" at the Gaiety for the next 25 years, first under Hollingshead and then under George Edwardes. Other Gaiety stalwarts were Edward Terry, Kate Vaughan and Fred Leslie. The theatre's music director, Meyer Lutz, composed or arranged the music for many of its most successful burlesques.\nIn 1870, Henry James Byron's \"Uncle Dick's Darling\" starred a young Henry Irving. This was the last play that theatre buff Charles Dickens saw before his death. Other pieces at Hollingshead's Gaiety in 1870 included \"Dot\" (Dion Boucicault's version of \"The Cricket on the Hearth\"); and \"The Princess of Trebizonde\", based on the Jacques Offenbach operetta (1870). \"Thespis\", the first collaboration between Gilbert and Sullivan, played at the theatre in 1871, with Farren as Mercury and J. L. Toole in the title role. Offenbach's \"Les deux aveugles\" played in 1872, starring Fred Sullivan. This was followed by such works as \"Shilly-Shally\" (1872) by Anthony Trollope and Charles Reade; \"Antony and Cleopatra\" (1873); and \"The Battle of Life\", (based on Charles Dickens's Christmas story of that title). Two other Dion Boucicault plays produced by Hollingshead's company in the early 1870s were \"Night and Morning\" and \"Led Astray\". Boucicault's \"Don Caesar de Bazan\" was travestied in Byron's \"Little Don Caesar de Bazan\".\nIn the late 1870s, the theatre became the first to install electric lighting on its auditorium. Hollingshead's productions there included \"The Bohemian G-yurl and the Unapproachable Pole\" (1877), Byron's farce \"Little Doctor Faust\" (1878) Byron's \"Handsome Hernani, or The Fatal Penny-Whistle\" (1879); and \"Robbing Roy\" (1879). Meyer Lutz's \"Ali Baba and The Forty Thieves\" was performed in 1880 (Hollingshead had produced a highly successful charity production called \"The Forty Thieves\" at the Gaiety in 1878), and a burlesque of \"Aladdin\", by Robert Reece, in 1881. These were followed by \"Little Robin Hood\" (1882), a burlesque by Reece, \"Blue Beard\" (1882), \"Ariel\" (1883, by F. C. Burnand, based on \"The Tempest\"), \"Don Yuan\", Byron's \"Little Don Caesar de Bazan\" (a send-up of Boucicault's play), \"Mazeppa\" (1884), \"Little Jack Sheppard\" (1885), \"Monte Cristo Jr.\" (1886), and dozens of others. John D'Auban choreographed the Gaiety burlesques from 1868. In addition to these burlesques, the theatre produced comedies such as Congreve's \"Love for Love\", Vanbrugh's \"Relapse\", \"The Grasshopper\" (1877, an adaptation by Hollingshead of Henri Meilhac and Ludovic Halévy's \"La Cigale\"), and a number of farces.\n\nNevertheless, burlesque and risque operettas were the normal fare at the Gaiety. Hollingshead called himself a \"licensed dealer in legs, short skirts, French adaptations, Shakespeare, taste and musical glasses.\" In 1886, George Edwards took over the lease to the Gaiety.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28094758", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28094758", "title": "Joseph Agricol Viala", "text": "Joseph Agricol Viala\n\nJoseph Agricol Viala (22 September 1780, Avignon – 6 July 1793, Caumont-sur-Durance) was a child hero in the French Revolutionary Army. He was killed at age 12. \n\nViala was living in Avignon when, in 1793, a federalist revolt broke out in the Midi after the fall of the Girondins in Paris. Supported by the British, the French Royalists allied themselves with the Federalists and took control of Toulon and Marseille. Faced with this uprising, the Revolutionary soldiers were forced to abandon Nîmes, Aix and Arles to the insurgents and fall back on Avignon. The inhabitants of Lambesc and Tarascon joined up with the rebels from Marseilles and together they headed for the Durance in order to march on Lyon, which had also revolted against the central government in Paris. The rebels hoped to destroy the Convention and put an end to the French Revolution.\n\nJoseph Agricol Viala was a nephew of Agricol Moureau, a Jacobin from Avignon, editor of the \"Courrier d'Avignon\" and administrator of the département of Vaucluse. Joseph Agricol thus became commander of the \"Espérance de la Patrie\", a National Guard formed wholly of young men from Avignon.\n\nOn hearing news of the approach of the rebels from Marseille, at the start of July 1793, the Republican forces (mainly those from Avignon) gathered to stop the rebels crossing the Durance. Viala attached himself to the national guards from Avignon. Numerically inferior, their only solution was to cut the ropes of the bac de Bonpas under enemy fire. To do so, they had to cross a road completely exposed to rebel fire and behind which the Revolutionary forces had dug in. Despite its necessity, the Revolutionary forces were reluctant to undertake such a hazardous mission. According to accounts of the event, the 12-year-old Viala grabbed a hatchet, launched himself at the cable and started to cut it. He was the subject of several musket vollies and he was mortally wounded by a musket ball from one of them. One account stated:\nViala's attempt was unable to stop the rebels crossing the Durance, however. Nevertheless, it allowed the Revolutionary forces to carry out an ordered retreat without being able to pick up Viala's body. According to tradition, the Revolutionary soldier who heard Viala's last words tried to pick up the body but had to retreat before he could do so. This left the body to be insulted and mutilated by the advancing Royalists before they crossed the river. Learning of her son's death, Viala's mother said \"Yes [...] he died for the fatherland!\".\n\nViala and Bara were the best known child heroes of the French Revolution, though Viala was later and thus less well-known - indeed, the Jacobin press did not invoke his memory before pluviôse an II. It was above all the speech made by Robespierre before the Convention on 18 floréal which contributed to the spread of Viala's mythology. In that speech, Robespierre stated \"By what fate or by what ingratitude has one yet hero younger and worthier of posterity been left forgotten?\". At the request of Barère, the assembly voted that Viala be honoured in the Panthéon, though the ceremony had to be postponed from 30 messidor to 10 thermidor and was then cancelled on Robespierre's fall on 9 Thermidor. Even so, during the month of prairial, Payan published a \"Précis historique sur Agricol Viala\" which contributed to Viala's rising popularity. A civic festival was organised in Avignon on 30 messidor \"in honour of Bara and Viala\". An engraving of Viala's face was also distributed to all primary schools.\n\nThe engraver Pierre-Michel Alix (1762–1817) produced a head-and-shoulders portrait of Viala. Louis Emmanuel Jadin (1768–1853) wrote the one-act play \"Agricol Viala, ou Le jeune héros de la Durance\" (\"Agricol Viala, or The young hero of the Durance\"), put on in Paris on 1 July 1794. 1794 also saw the composition of the marching song the \"Chant du départ\", whose fourth stanza is placed in a child's mouth and mentions both Bara and Viala. The 1795-launched ship \"Viala\" was named after him.\n\nIn 1822, the sculptor Antoine Allier created a life-size bronze monument to Viala, showing him nude and from behind, with his right hand placed on a hatchet and his left arm gripping a pole with a ring and a length of rope. After being given by the Louvre to the town museum, it was set up on place Gustave-Charpentier, in the suburb of Boulogne-sur-Mer, in June 1993.\n\nUnder the French Third Republic, historgraphy and scholarly literature contributed to renewed interest in the figures of Viala and Bara. Viala is also one of the 660 figures whose names are engraved on the Arc de triomphe (he appears on the 18th column as \"VIALA\") and the rue Viala, in the 15e arrondissement of Paris, bears his name.\n\nIn the historiographical struggle between pro- and anti-Revolutionary figures, local anti-Revolutionary historians have tried to establish that Viala provoked the rebels with rude gestures. Other than Viala, it seems above all to have been his uncle (known as the \"homme rouge\" or \"red man\") who had been seen doing this.\n"}
{"id": "54425027", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54425027", "title": "Josh Shipp (teen expert)", "text": "Josh Shipp (teen expert)\n\nJosh Shipp, (born January 20, 1982) is an American youth motivational speaker, best-selling author, and TV personality. He is most known for his TEDx talk entitled “Every Kid is One Caring Adult Away from Being a Success Story” and his television programs including Teen Trouble which aired on Lifetime and A&E executive produced by Ellen Rakieten of The Oprah Winfrey Show.\n\nJosh was president of Oklahoma DECA in high school and began speaking professional shortly thereafter at the age of 17. He has since spoken at large events such as the National FFA convention and the SADD National Convention. Josh has been a spokesperson for National Foster Care Month, wrote a teen advice column for CosmoGIRL!, and appeared as a teen advice correspondent on MTV‘s Total Request Live.\n\nHis recent work focuses on the impact parents, teachers, and caring adults have in the life of a child.\n\nJosh has also appeared as a guest on Good Morning America, Take Part Live, The Steve Harvey Show, Anderson Cooper Live, The Jeff Probst Show, and others to discuss issues related to teens, parents, and teachers.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18026319", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18026319", "title": "José Azueta", "text": "José Azueta\n\nJosé Azueta Abad (May 2, 1895 – May 10, 1914), usually known as José Azueta, was a Mexican Navy lieutenant who became famous for his role in the United States occupation of Veracruz, where he was fatally wounded. He is one of the most revered national heroes in Veracruz.\n\nBorn in Guerrero on May 2, 1895, son to Commodore Manuel Azueta Perillos and Josefa Abad. Due to the labor of his father in military service, the family moved to the port of Veracruz. There he completed basic education in José Miguel Macías of Veracruz School where he showed quick progress especially at discipline and behavior. At age 11, his father was promoted to Captain of the ship to the Director of the Naval Academy, at that time, Jose showed his interest and affection for the profession of his father, and in 1909 he began taking classes at the Navy school. At 15, he applied to the Naval Academy and was approved on August 27.\n\nThe son of Commodore Manuel Azueta, commander of the Veracruz Naval Academy, Lieutenant Azueta was wounded on April 21, 1914, the first day of the invasion.\n\nAzueta was manning a machine gun placed outside the building, facing the incoming U.S. troops on his own and causing a number of casualties. After having been mortally wounded by U.S. Navy marksman Joseph G. Harner, who took several shots at him from about 300 yards away, he was rescued from the battlefield and taken to his home.\n\nAfter the battle, U.S. Admiral Frank Friday Fletcher heard of Azueta's actions and sent word to him via messenger that he (Fletcher) wished to visit the fallen defender and pay his respects. Azueta—through his surgeon and local political activist Dr. Roberto Reyes Barreiro—sent word to Fletcher refusing the visit, saying \"If the American (Fletcher) enters my house, I will either kill him or me.\" Fletcher then offered to send his personal doctor to take care of him. However, Azueta refused medical services offered by the occupation army and only allowed local Dr. Rafael Cuervo Xicoy to treat him. Dr. Xicoy lacked medical supplies to assist Azueta properly. At the time of his death, Lt. Azueta was being cared for by the surgeon Reyes Barreiro.\n\nOn April 24, Lieutenant Azueta was promoted immediately to captain by the President of the Republic for his performance in combat. On April 29, he was awarded a gold medal with the Decoration of the Second U.S. Invasion. Again on May 1, he was issued the 3rd Class Military Merit medal.\n\nAzueta died of his wounds on May 10, Mexico's Mother's Day. During his funeral hundreds of citizens marched holding his coffin on their shoulders to the city's cemetery in open defiance to directives from the occupation army forbidding assembly.\n\nThe municipalities of José Azueta, Guerrero, and José Azueta, Veracruz, were named after him.\n\n"}
{"id": "13951035", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13951035", "title": "Katrina Kaif", "text": "Katrina Kaif\n\nKatrina Kaif (, born Katrina Turquotte, 16 July 1983) is an English actress who works in Hindi films. Despite receiving mixed reviews from critics for her acting prowess, she has established herself in Bollywood and is one of India's highest-paid actresses.\n\nBorn in Hong Kong, Kaif and her family lived in several countries before she moved to London. She received her first modelling assignment as a teenager and later pursued a career as a fashion model. At a fashion show in London, filmmaker Kaizad Gustad spotted Kaif and decided to cast her in \"Boom\" (2003), a critical and commercial failure. While filming in India, Kaif received modelling assignments and established a successful modelling career. However, filmmakers were hesitant to cast her due to her poor command of Hindi. After appearing in the Telugu film, \"Malliswari\" (2004), Kaif earned commercial success in Bollywood with the romantic comedies \"Maine Pyaar Kyun Kiya?\" (2005) and \"Namastey London\" (2007). She followed with a series of box-office hits, but was criticised for her acting, repetitive roles and inclination to male-dominated films.\n\nKaif's performance in the terrorism drama \"New York\" (2009) was better received, earning her a Filmfare Award for Best Actress nomination. After roles in \"Ajab Prem Ki Ghazab Kahani\" (2009), \"Raajneeti\" (2010) and \"Zindagi Na Milegi Dobara\" (2011), she received her second Filmfare nomination for her performance in \"Mere Brother Ki Dulhan\" (2011). Kaif's highest-grossing films came with the spy thriller \"Ek Tha Tiger\" (2012) and its 2017 sequel, and the action thriller \"Dhoom 3\" (2013), all of which rank among the highest-grossing Indian films of all time. \n\nIn addition to acting, Kaif is involved with her mother's charity and participates in stage shows. She is guarded about her personal life, which is a subject of media scrutiny, as is her background.\n\nKatrina Kaif was born in Hong Kong with her mother's surname Turquotte (also spelt Turcotte), on 16 July 1983. According to the actress, her father (Mohammed Kaif) is a British businessman of Kashmiri descent and her mother (Suzanne, also spelt Susanna) is an English lawyer and charity worker. She has seven siblings: three elder sisters (Stephanie, Christine, and Natasha), three younger sisters (Melissa, Sonia, and Isabel) and an elder brother, Michael. Isabelle Kaif is also a model and actress. Kaif's parents divorced when she was a child, and her father moved to the United States. She said her father had no influence on Kaif or her siblings while they were growing up, and they were raised by their mother. On her father's absence in her life, Kaif stated: \"When I see friends who have wonderful fathers who are like pillars of support for their families, I say, if only I had that. But instead of complaining, I should be grateful for all the other things I have\". In a 2009 interview with \"The Indian Express\", she said she was not in touch with her father.\nKaif says that her mother decided to \"dedicate her life to social causes\", which led to the family's relocation to a number of countries for varying lengths of time:Our transitions in growing up were—from Hong Kong where I was born, to China, then to Japan, and from Japan by boat to France ... After France, Switzerland—and I'm cutting out many East European countries where we were for only a few months each—then Poland in Kraków ... After that we went to Belgium, then to Hawaii, which was a short time, and then came to London.\nDue to their frequent relocation, Kaif and her siblings were home-schooled by a series of tutors. Although she is thought to have grown up in London, she lived there for only three years before moving to India. According to Kaif, she then changed her surname to her father's because she thought it would be easier to pronounce.\n\nKaif's paternal parentage has been questioned by some members of the film industry. In a 2011 interview with \"Mumbai Mirror\", \"Boom\" producer Ayesha Shroff accused Kaif of fabricating her history: \"We created an identity for her. She was this pretty young English girl, and we gave her the Kashmiri father and thought of calling her Katrina Kazi. We thought we'd give her some kind of Indian ancestry, to connect with the audience ... But then we thought that Kazi sounded too ... religious? ... Mohammad Kaif was at the top, and so we said, Katrina Kaif sounds really great\". Kaif called Shroff's comments \"hurtful\".\n\nAt the age of fourteen, Kaif won a beauty contest in Hawaii, and received her first modelling assignment in a jewellery campaign. She subsequently modelled professionally in London, working for freelance agencies and appearing regularly at London Fashion Week. At a fashion show Kaif attracted the attention of London-based filmmaker Kaizad Gustad. He selected her for a role in the English-Hindi erotic heist film \"Boom\" as part of an ensemble cast that included Amitabh Bachchan, Gulshan Grover, Jackie Shroff, Madhu Sapre and Padma Lakshmi. While filming in India, Kaif received other offers and decided to stay in the country. In 2003, she received notice as a model after walking the ramp for Rohit Bal at the India Fashion Week and appeared in the first Kingfisher Calendar. Kaif soon established a successful modelling career in India after endorsing brands such as Coca-Cola, LG, Fevicol and Samsung.\n\nKaif's career as a model led to anticipation surrounding her Bollywood debut. \"Boom\" (2003) had its first screening at the Cannes Film Festival, and was heavily promoted at the event. \"Boom\" was a commercial and critical failure. Kaif's enactment of a supermodel ensnared in the Mumbai underworld was poorly received, with Ziya U. Salam of \"The Hindu\" attributing the weak performances of the film's leading ladies to \"the vacuity of their expressions\". \"Hindustan Times\" reported that after \"Boom\"s release, Kaif was written off due to her poor Hindi and thick British accent. She later dismissed the film: \"I don't count \"Boom\" among important happenings in my life. When I signed this film, I didn't know much about India and its film audience\". Although Kaif was offered a number of modelling assignments, filmmakers were hesitant to cast her because of her poor command of Hindi. In one instance, Mahesh Bhatt replaced her with Tara Sharma in \"Saaya\" (2003) as he found her an \"inconsistent performer\". Subsequently, Kaif began working on her diction through Hindi classes.\n\nAfter the failure of her first Bollywood project, Kaif appeared in the Telugu film \"Malliswari\" (2004). With Daggubati Venkatesh, she played the title role of a princess forced to flee from her murderous caretaker. Kaif received a reported for the film, the highest salary for a South Indian film actress at the time. Despite negative reviews for her acting, \"Malliswari\" was a profitable venture.\n\nIn 2005, Kaif appeared briefly as Abhishek Bachchan's girlfriend in Ram Gopal Varma's political thriller \"Sarkar\". She next featured alongside Salman Khan, Sushmita Sen and Sohail Khan in \"Maine Pyaar Kyun Kiya?\", a film she considered her \"first real step into Bollywood\". Directed by David Dhawan, the film was a successful remake of the romantic comedy \"Cactus Flower\". For her role as a suicidal model, Kaif received the Stardust Award for Breakthrough Performance – Female. According to Sukanya Verma of Rediff.com, \"Katrina's Disney princess-like charm adds to her adorable screen presence\". Kaif followed with a small part in her second Telugu film, \"Allari Pidugu\".\n\nIn 2006, she appeared with Akshay Kumar for the first of many films in Raj Kanwar's unsuccessful \"Humko Deewana Kar Gaye\", a story of two like-minded strangers who fall in love despite being engaged to others. Sify wrote that Kaif was \"passably competent in a tailor-made role, giving a mild emotional spin to a couple of scenes\" but was overshadowed by her supporting actresses. Kaif also appeared with Mammootty in the Malayalam crime thriller \"Balram vs. Tharadas\", in which Rishi Raj Singh of \"The Hindu\" called her performance \"marvellous\".\n\nKaif's career prospects changed in 2007, when she appeared in four Bollywood hits. In an interview with \"The Indian Express\", she called Vipul Amrutlal Shah's romantic comedy \"Namastey London\" a milestone, saying that \"for the first time, [she] had a dominating role\". Kaif used her life in London as a reference for her role as a spoilt British Indian girl intent on marrying her self-centred British boyfriend, despite her parents' disapproval. Although critics expressed mixed views on the film, Sukanya Verma wrote that Kaif \"suits the role to the T\" and \"brings the zingy mix of her character alive with style and substance\". Kaif's chemistry with co-star Akshay Kumar was particularly well received, with Nikhat Kazmi of \"The Times of India\" calling their casting \"refreshing\". Taran Adarsh from Bollywood Hungama mentioned “Katrina is a revelation. The actor surprised you with a confident performance in \"Humko Deewana Kar Gaye\" and now, in \"Namaste London\", she comes up with a spirited performance yet again. She handles the complex part with remarkable ease.”\n\nShe had a supporting role as a doctor in the sports drama \"Apne\". The film was highly anticipated as it marked the first appearance of Dharmendra with his sons, Sunny Deol and Bobby Deol. After \"Apne\" she rejoined director David Dhawan and Salman Khan for the comedy \"Partner\", a remake of \"Hitch\" which also starred Govinda and Lara Dutta. With a worldwide revenue of , the film was a major financial success. Kaif's final film of the year was Anees Bazmee's comedy \"Welcome\", alongside Akshay Kumar, Nana Patekar, Mallika Sherawat and Anil Kapoor. Although the film generated mostly negative reviews, it proved to be the second highest-grossing Bollywood film of 2007. The similarity of Kaif's roles was noted by Shoma Chaudhury of \"Tehelka\", who called her \"unabashed eye-candy\", adding that she was \"a pretty prop in \"Welcome\"\" and \"more of the same in \"Partner\" and \"Apne\"\".\n\nIn 2008, the actress had three releases, the first of which was Abbas-Mustan's action thriller \"Race\", a story about two stepbrothers-turned-rivals who are in contention for their father's insurance money. Kaif played Saif Ali Khan's secretary, who is his stepbrother's (Akshaye Khanna) lover. Nikhat Kazmi was appreciative of the film, praising its \"super cool look [and] testosterone-high action sequences\" but found Kaif \"too pale\" in her role. After \"Race\", Kaif rejoined Akshay Kumar in Anees Bazmee's action comedy \"Singh Is Kinng\". The film earned worldwide, making it Kaif's sixth consecutive box-office success. However, she received mixed reviews for her performance. Rajeev Masand of CNN-IBN reviewed: \"Katrina Kaif is an eyesore ... her acting so weak you want to urge her to watch everyone from Madhubala to Madhuri so she might pick up a few tricks\".\n\nKaif's final film of the year—Subhash Ghai's drama \"Yuvvraaj\"—was a major box-office failure. In preparation for her role as a cellist she practised her playing with orchestra members. Her portrayal of a girl forbidden by her father from marrying her poor lover was well received by Sify's Sonia Chopra: \"Katrina is wonderful, plays the cello convincingly, and looks ethereal\". Despite the film's mixed critical reception, its screenplay was added to the library of the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences for its artistic merit.\n\nBefore \"New York\", Kaif's voice was dubbed over by voice artists in most of her films due to her lack of fluency in Hindi and other Indian languages. Although she appeared in a series of successful films, critics noted that she had little to do in them as they were generally male-dominated. Her performances were also largely criticised. About her series of glamorous roles, Kaif said that her \"first few films were really a process of learning ... There was no target\".\n\nAfter a string of films in which she was cast to add glamour, Kaif appeared in Kabir Khan's terrorism drama \"New York\" (2009). Featuring John Abraham and Neil Nitin Mukesh in lead roles, the film tells the story of how three friends' lives are changed when the former is wrongly detained after 9/11. Kaif played Maya, a college student who later marries a terrorist. The actress said that she identified with Maya, since she experienced similar isolation because of her skin colour when she was growing up in London. Kaif also remarked that she was tired of \"arm candy\" roles and was looking for more substantial parts. \"New York\" did well at the box office and received favourable reviews. According to Subhash K. Jha, Kaif \"comes into her own as an actress of substance ... From the carefree effervescent campus girl to the anguished wife, Katrina makes the journey look plausible all the way\". A reviewer for \"The Times of India\" considered it to be the \"best performance of her entire career.” \"New York\" brought Kaif her first Filmfare Award nomination for Best Actress. She then appeared in a cameo for India's first underwater thriller \"Blue\". Kaif starred with Ranbir Kapoor in Rajkumar Santoshi's hit comedy, \"Ajab Prem Ki Ghazab Kahani\" (2009), as an orphan forced to marry a rich man. Taran Adarsh of Bollywood Hungama wrote, \"Katrina Kaif continues to surprise ... She scores in both emotional and light scenes\" and called her chemistry with Kapoor \"electrifying\". Her final film of the year was Priyadarshan's comedy \"De Dana Dan\".\nIn 2010, Kaif appeared in Prakash Jha's political thriller \"Raajneeti\" as part of an ensemble cast which included Ranbir Kapoor, Ajay Devgan, Arjun Rampal, Nana Patekar, Manoj Bajpai and Sarah Thompson. The film took inspiration from \"The Mahabharata\" and Mario Puzo's 1969 novel \"The Godfather\". Set in Bhopal, the film described a fiercely fought election campaign by two parties attempting to seize power with manipulation, corruption and treachery. Although there was media speculation before the film's release that Kaif's character was based on Sonia Gandhi, the actress denied this. In preparation for her role as Indu (a politician loosely based on Draupadi), she watched Priyanka Gandhi's election campaign videos to study the body language and interaction of politicians. The film received mainly positive reviews from critics. Rajeev Masand found \"Raajneeti\" \"thrilling and gripping\", though Namrata Joshi was more critical and expressed her disappointment over the film's depiction of women. Nikhat Kazmi considered Kaif's performance to be \"carefree and camera-unconscious\" and wrote that she \"seems to slip into the high-powered shoes easily\". The film was highly successful at the box office, receiving a total collection of .\n\nKaif collaborated with Akshay Kumar for the sixth time in the slapstick comedy \"Tees Maar Khan\" (2010). For her role as an aspiring actress, Kaif appeared in a popular item number titled \"Sheila Ki Jawani\". The song was choreographed by the film's director Farah Khan and for the belly dancing portion of the song, Kaif was trained by expert Veronica D'Souza. \"Sheila Ki Jawani\" was often compared to another item number released the same year \"Munni Badnaam Hui\" from \"Dabangg\". Despite the song's popularity, \"Tees Maar Khan\" was panned by critics and underperformed at the box office. Kaif's portrayal was not well received; Renuka Rao of \"Daily News and Analysis\" said that her \"drama queen act is performed ... poorly\", but noted that she \"does full justice\" to the item number.\n\nThe following year, Kaif was paired with Hrithik Roshan in Zoya Akhtar's coming-of-age dramedy \"Zindagi Na Milegi Dobara\". The film narrates the story of three friends on a bachelor trip, and how the workaholism of one was overcome with the help of Laila (Kaif). The film was a critical and commercial success. Richard Kuipers of \"Variety\" commented that she is \"delightful as the sweet-natured girl who inspires everyone to look in the mirror and do something about it\". \"Zindagi Na Milegi Dobara\" was one of the most awarded films of the year and received numerous Best Film accolades.\n\nKaif then featured in Yash Raj Films' romantic comedy \"Mere Brother Ki Dulhan\" (2011) with Imran Khan and Ali Zafar, She was cast as Dimple Dixit, a \"talkative\", \"unpredictable\" girl, a role she described as challenging as the character's personality contrasted with her own. While the film earned mixed reviews, Kaif was generally praised for her portrayal. The book \"Mother Maiden Mistress\" called Dimple one of the more interesting female characters of the year and Gaurav Malani of \"The Economic Times\" said the film was watchable because of \"Katrina's live-wire energy wherein she never goes overboard and keeps bustling with vivacity through the runtime\". For this performance, Kaif received her second Filmfare nomination in the Best Actress category.\n\nIn 2012, Kaif appeared in \"Chikni Chameli\", an item number in \"Agneepath\" that incorporated dance steps from the Lavani genre (a Maharashtrian folk dance). The song was filmed over a ten-day period and, according to the actress, \"It was hard work. It was very fast and it was not a style I was used to, but I took it as a challenge\". Kaif appeared next in Kabir Khan's espionage thriller \"Ek Tha Tiger\" as a Pakistani ISI agent who falls in love with an Indian RAW agent. Shubhra Gupta of \"The Indian Express\" wrote about her performance: \"Katrina is an able, animated foil to Salman, her long legs making her leaps and kicks credible\". The film received predominantly positive reviews, with Aniruddha Guha of \"Daily News and Analysis\" calling it \"smart and stylish\". With worldwide earnings of , \"Ek Tha Tiger\" was the highest-grossing Bollywood film of the year.\n\nThat year Kaif also appeared with Shah Rukh Khan and Anushka Sharma in Yash Chopra's swan song, the romance \"Jab Tak Hai Jaan\". About working with Chopra, she remarked that he \"undoubtedly is the king of romance and I have always admired the way he presents his heroines. It was always a dream to work with him and the reality is even better\". She played Meera, a woman who promises God to end her affair with her comatose lover if he survives. Although the film received mostly positive reviews, Kaif's performance had a mixed reception. CNN-IBN wrote: \"Meera's role was a difficult one and Katrina falls short in emotional scenes. It seems Katrina still doesn't feel very easy in front of the camera and has difficulty with complex expressions\". Commercially, the film proved a box-office hit with revenues of worldwide.\n\nIn 2013, she appeared briefly with Aamir Khan in Vijay Krishna Acharya's action thriller \"Dhoom 3\". To prepare for her role as a circus performer, she undertook a year-long regimen of Pilates, functional training and aerial straps. The film received ambivalent reviews and Kaif was criticised for taking on an insubstantial part. Earning in box-office receipts, \"Dhoom 3\" went on to become the highest-grossing Bollywood film of all time until it was surpassed by \"PK\" in 2014.\n\nKaif's next appearance was in Siddharth Anand's \"Bang Bang!\" (2014), a remake of the 2010 action comedy \"Knight and Day\". She played a bank receptionist who unwittingly gets caught up with a secret agent (Hrithik Roshan). Raja Sen of Rediff.com was disappointed with her performance, describing it as \"insufferable\". Although the film was commercially successful, financial analysts observed that it failed to meet box-office expectations. \"Ek Tha Tiger\", \"Dhoom 3\" and \"Bang Bang!\" still rank in the list of highest-grossing Indian films, while \"Jab Tak Hai Jaan\" still rank in the list of highest-grossing Indian films in overseas markets\n\nKaif's sole appearance of 2015 was with Saif Ali Khan in Kabir Khan's post 26/11 counter-terrorism drama \"Phantom\". In 2016, Kaif appeared in two films. In Abhishek Kapoor's \"Fitoor\", an adaptation of Charles Dickens' \"Great Expectations\", Kaif played a role based on Estella Havisham along with Aditya Roy Kapur and Tabu. Later that year she featured in Nitya Mehra's love story \"Baar Baar Dekho\" with Sidharth Malhotra. Both films were critical and commercial failures. In a review for the former, Namrata Joshi wrote: \"Katrina is good so long as she has to just be herself. So she dances, smiles and flirts well, but the minute a dramatic scene comes up, her utter inadequacy as a performer shows.\"\n\nNext year, Kaif appeared alongside Ranbir Kapoor in Anurag Basu's comedy-adventure film \"Jagga Jasoos\", which was released in 2017 after multiple delays. The film opened to mixed critical response and was a commercial disappointment. Mayank Shekhar from Mid Day said, “Honestly, I know no two faces as pleasant as Ranbir Kapoor and Katrina Kaif on the Indian screen. They naturally shine before the camera.” \n\nIn the end of year, Kaif re-united with Salman Khan and reprised the role of Zoya in the Ali Abbas Zafar's action thriller film \"Tiger Zinda Hai\", sequel to the 2012 film \"Ek Tha Tiger.\" The film released on Christmas weekend and opened to strong box office collections, collecting over ₹1.1 billion within three days of release. The film opened with positive to mixed reviews. Critics praised her action sequences but criticised her lack of dialogues. Rachit Gupta of \"Filmfare\" said, \"The screenplay goes easy on [Kaif] by not giving her stand and dialogue. Instead, she does the bulk of the hand to hand combat and gun fights and she looks the part. It's invigorating to see a lady kick-ass with so much élan and pull all the punches like they're real.\" \n\nAs of August 2018, Kaif has filmed a supporting role in the period action-adventure film \"Thugs of Hindostan,\" marking her second collaboration with Aamir Khan, Amitabh Bachchan and director Vijay Krishna Acharya. Kaif has also filmed for the starring role of an alcoholic actress in Anand L Rai's \"Zero\", marking her second collaboration with Shah Rukh Khan and Anushka Sharma. Additionally, she has also committed to be cast in \"Bharat\" opposite her frequent co-star Salman Khan and director Ali Abbas Zafar, and also in the untitled dance film opposite Varun Dhawan.\n\nKaif is involved with Relief Projects India, a charitable trust run by her mother which rescues abandoned baby girls and works to prevent female infanticide. Kaif's winnings from the game shows \"10 Ka Dum\" and \"Kaun Banega Crorepati\" were donated to her mother's Mercy Home orphanage. In 2009 and 2010, Kaif also walked the ramp for charity as part of Salman Khan's \"Being Human\" show. To raise funds for a new school in Madurai she recorded \"Rhyme Skool\", an album of nursery rhymes composed by A. R. Rahman. In 2011, Kaif visited sepoys in Jammu as part of NDTV's reality program \"Jai Jawan\". The following year she visited the Cancer Patients Aid Association to gift cancer survivors and increase public awareness of breast and cervical cancer.\n\nKaif has also performed onstage, participating in Shah Rukh Khan's \"Temptations Reloaded\" world concert tour in 2008. Also featuring Kareena Kapoor and Arjun Rampal, the tour began in Amsterdam in June and ended four months later in Dubai's Festival City Arena before an audience of 15,000. Kaif rejoined Shah Rukh Khan for his 2013 \"Temptations Reloaded\" concert in Muscat, performing to an audience of over 18,000. She performed with Akon at the closing ceremony of the 2009 Indian Premier League at the Wanderers Stadium in Johannesburg, and joined Shah Rukh Khan, Deepika Padukone and Pitbull in Kolkata for the opening ceremony of the 2013 IPL season. In 2016, she joined other Indian celebrities for the \"Dream Team Tour\", where they performed in various American cities.\n\nKaif's personal life has been the subject of extensive media attention. She is reluctant to discuss her romantic life: \"I have always believed that there is life before marriage and after marriage. Before marriage ... you are termed a single woman and I choose to conduct that part of my life with absolute dignity and discretion\". Although rumours of a relationship with Salman Khan first emerged in 2003, it was not until after their 2010 breakup that Kaif spoke of the affair, calling it her first serious relationship. They have remained friends, and the actress credits Khan with giving her confidence and guidance:\n\nThe reported reason for their breakup was Kaif's increasing closeness to Ranbir Kapoor during the filming of \"Ajab Prem Ki Ghazab Kahani\". Although this was denied by Kaif and Kapoor, the nature of their relationship was scrutinised by the media because they were thought to be involved with others at the time. In August 2013, photographs of Kapoor and Kaif on holiday in Ibiza were leaked by \"Stardust\"; the media interpreted this as confirmation of an affair. After the appearance of the photos, Kaif published an open letter to the media saying that she was \"upset, distressed and invaded\" by the breach of privacy. She later acknowledged Kapoor as \"an extremely important part of [her] life\". In February 2016, the media reported that they had broken up.\n\nKaif has a close relationship with her family, and the lack of a father figure in her life has given her a sense of responsibility towards them. While Kaif's mother is Christian and her father is Muslim, Kaif was brought up to practise all faiths and says she is a \"firm believer in God\". \"The Times of India\" reported in 2009 that she visits Siddhivinayak Temple, Mount Mary Church, and the Sufi shrine Ajmer Sharif Dargah before her films are released.\n\nAccording to an \"India Today\" article, despite her dissimilarity to a conventional Bollywood heroine, Kaif \"turned every adversity into opportunity and climbed the slippery pole of stardom\". Although she is one of the most commercially successful actresses in contemporary Bollywood, she has received mixed reviews for her acting prowess. Writing for \"Firstpost\", Anuya Jakatdar wrote that Kaif needed to \"take on role[s] that actually challenge her\" instead of \"coasting on her co-star’s box office appeal\" and criticised her inclination towards glamorous roles. Kaif's dancing ability is better appreciated, with Meena Iyer of \"The Times of India\" calling her \"one of Bollywood's best dancers\". Kaif's Bollywood success has sparked an influx of foreign talent hoping to establish themselves in the industry.\n\nKaif is cited in the media as one of India's most beautiful celebrities, and has ranked highly in polls choosing the most attractive Indian celebrities. Kaif was named the \"World's Sexiest Woman\" by \"FHM India\" five times from 2008 to 2013, and appeared on \"Verve\"s list of most powerful women in 2009 and 2010. The UK magazine \"Eastern Eye\" called her the \"Sexiest Asian Woman\" from 2008 to 2010, and again in 2013. Kaif was named \"The Times of India\"s \"Most Desirable Woman\" in 2010, and was later ranked second from 2011 to 2013. The Indian edition of \"People\" described her as \"India's Most Beautiful Woman\" in 2011 and three years later she topped \"Maxim India\"s \"Hot 100\" poll.\n\nKaif is a celebrity spokesperson for a number of brands including Slice, Nakshatra, Lux, Panasonic, Lakmé and L'Oréal. \"The Economic Times\" ranked Kaif India's second most prominent endorser in 2012. \"Hindustan Times\" reported in 2014 that she received to for each endorsement, making her one of India's highest-paid celebrity endorsers. In 2013, Kaif was ranked ninth on \"Forbes\" list of India's best-known entertainers with an estimated annual income of . In 2010 and 2011, Mattel released two sets of Barbie dolls inspired by Kaif. In 2015, Kaif became the eighth Bollywood actor to have a wax figure installed at Madame Tussauds in London. She is the first Bollywood star to be featured in Peruvian photographer Mario Testino’s Towel Series. \n"}
{"id": "52093756", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52093756", "title": "Kevin Julio", "text": "Kevin Julio\n\nKevin Julio Chandra (born July 28, 1993), known professionally as Kevin Julio, is an Indonesian actor, DJ, MC and singer. He started his career at age 13 in the Indonesia soap opera \"Intan\" (2006). He started his acting career as supporting role and starred in several television including \"Heart Series\" (2007), \"Candy\" (2007), \"Arti Sahabat\" (2011), and \"Heart Series 2\" (2012). His first leading role was in the \"Bidadari-Bidadari Surga\" (2013). He received critical acclaim for his role as Tristan in \"Ganteng-Ganteng Serigala\" (2014).\n\nWhile break from television series, Kevin Julio starred in numerous film television including \"Rute Cinta No. 23\" which has nominated in Panasonic Gobel Awards 2015.\n\nKevin started his film career as supporting roles in \"Basah...\" (2006), \"Menculik Miyabi\" (2010) and \"Bangun Lagi Dong Lupus\" (2013). His first leading role was in the \"Kembalinya Nenek Gayung\" (2013) and \"Adriana\" (2013). In 2016 he was cast as villain in the Comedy-superhero \"Jagoan Instan\".\n\nIn 2013 he started his presenting career by co-hosting along with Olga Syahputra and Raffi Ahmad in the music program Dahsyat. In 2016 he hosting a new talent search formed by FremantleMedia with NET., \"Just Duet\". \n\nAs an actor, he has earned Bandung Film Festival for Excellence Actor in a Lead Role (Television) in 2014, and has been nominated for SCTV Awards, Indonesia Kids Choice Awards, Infotainment Awards, and Insert Fashion Awards.\n\nKevin Julio was born on July 28, 1993, in Jakarta. He is the only child of Asep Candra Himawan and Nancy Wijaya. His father is Sundanese while his mother is of Dutch descent \n\nKevin started his acting career as supporting role in Indonesian soap opera \"Intan\" in 2016. \nHe started his acting career as supporting role and starred in several television including \"Heart Series\" (2007), \"Candy\"(2007). \nIn 2011 he starred in \"Arti Sahabat\", which made him an idol.\n\nKevin started his film career as supporting roles in \"Basah...\" (Wet...) (2006), \"Menculik Miyabi\" (Kidnapping Miyabi)(2010)\n\nIn 2013 he was cast in the second season of Heart Series, \"Heart Series 2\". His first leading role was in the \"Bidadari-Bidadari Surga\" (Heaven Angels) (2013). He receive critical acclaimed with his role as Tristan in \"Ganteng-Ganteng Serigala\" (Handsome Wolves) (2014) In 2015 GGS back with it second season titled, \"Ganteng-Ganteng Serigala (Returns)\", it set earlier before first season. Kevin and all main casts left the show because the production changed it whole story, but he then called back him for the last episode.\n\nIn 2013 while on a break from television series, Kevin Julio starred in numerous film television including \"Rute Cinta No. 23\" which has nominated in Panasonic Gobel Awards 2015.\n\nWhile he was on a break from television activity he was cast on \"Bangun Lagi Dong Lupus\" (2013) as supporting role Daniel, Acha Septriasa boyfriend, but due to his rude character toward Lupus her girlfriend left him. His first leading role was in the horror-comedy film \"Kembalinya Nenek Gayung\" (Nenek Gayung is Back)(2013) as Brandon. A popular actor who is tried to get his popularity back in alternative way. Then he starred in a historical-fiction film, \"Adriana\" (2013), as Sobar who is very serious person. In 2016 he was cast as villain in the comedy-superhero \"Jagoan Instan\" (Instant Hero), Romeo. Directed by Fajar Bustami, Jagoan Instan was filmed last year and released on Feb. 18. For this character he is uglified with false buck teeth. Due to tight scheduled he collapsed three times in one day during the shooting of this film.\n\nIn 2013 he started his presenting career by co-hosting along with Olga Syahputra and Raffi Ahmad in the music program Dahsyat. In 2016 he hosting a new Indonesian singing talent search produced by FremantleMedia with NET., \"Just Duet\" aired every Saturday and Sunday at 7:30 PM from April 2 – May 22, 2016.\n\nOn February 8, 2016, he wrote on his Twitter that he appointed as ALBA Watch Indonesia's Brand Ambassador.\nOn August 2, 2015, he along with Maia, PASTO, Jessica Mila and Prilly Latuconsina hold fan meeting in Jakarta Selatan to promoted their latest collaboration album, \"Maia Pasto with the Stars\". He sung a duet track with PASTO, \"Teman atau Kekasih\" (Friend or Girlfriend) The official teaser of this track first published on July 27, 2015 by Le Mosiek Revole on Youtube\n\nIn November 2016, his film with Jessica Mila, \"Surga di Telapak Kaki Ibu (The Movie)\", was released. On January 12, 2017, \"Jomblo Ngenes\", his second film with Mila was released. On June 25, 2017, Indonesian version of \"Miss Granny\", \"Sweet 20\", was released, starring Julio as Juna.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36308240", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36308240", "title": "Lev Alekseyev", "text": "Lev Alekseyev\n\nLev Alekseyev (born 18 April 1926) is a Russian former sailor who competed in the 1952 Summer Olympics, in the 1956 Summer Olympics, and in the 1964 Summer Olympics.\n"}
{"id": "16570526", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16570526", "title": "List of Lao people", "text": "List of Lao people\n\nBelow is a list of Lao people (persons from Laos, or of Lao descent).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11309473", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11309473", "title": "Max Pulver", "text": "Max Pulver\n\nMax Pulver is the author of three graphology books (1931,1934 and 1949) and several articles. He developed the theory of symbolism of space. His work discusses pressure, intelligence, and crime. He founded the \"Schweizerische Graphologische Gesellschaft\" (Swiss Graphological Society) in 1950 and was president until his death.\n\nMajor symbolism starts with the point, and examines where and how it travels, to derive an understanding of the personality. This travel is not restricted to strokes. It can be equally applied to white space within a page, or the page as a whole.\n\nThis looks at the stroke structures, or sequence of stroke structures, reflecting upon what they are symbols of. Within this context, a strong leftward moving stroke through a signature would be symbolic of removing one's self from life. How that removal manifests depends upon what else is contained within the handwriting.\n\n"}
{"id": "5605926", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5605926", "title": "Michel Mirowski", "text": "Michel Mirowski\n\nMichel Mirowski (October 14, 1924 – March 26, 1990) was a physician who helped develop the implantable cardioverter-defibrillator (ICD).\n\nBorn in Warsaw, Poland, he practiced medicine in Israel before coming to Sinai Hospital in Baltimore, Maryland. While there he collaborated with Dr. Morton Mower and later Dr. Stephen Heilman's artificial pacemaker company to develop the first implantable cardioverter-defibrillator.\n\nMirowski was born as Mordechai Frydman on October 14, 1924, in Warsaw. When Nazi Germany invaded Poland in the fall of 1939, his father renamed him as Mieczysław Mirowski to try to protect him from the anti-Semitism of the time. Later, his French wife, Anna, would call him Michel, by which he became known.\n\nTo escape the Nazis, Mirowski fled to Ukraine, and for the next five years survived under the most appalling conditions. By 1944 he was an officer in a Polish regiment and returned to Poland where, as the war ended, he registered as a medical student at the University of Gdańsk. \"Warsaw had been completely destroyed, including its ghetto,\" he remembered. \"None of my family was left. I couldn't even find our old home.\" Mirowski attended medical school there for a year, but gradually came to believe, \"I had to leave Poland. I had become a Zionist. After all that had happened and that I had seen, the Jews had to have a country of their own to survive. As far as Poland was concerned, it had become a cemetery for me. I told myself that I would never return.\"\n\nMirowski emigrated to Palestine, but no medical schools were operating there in the early post-war years. He returned to Europe to seek training and entered the medical school at Lyon, France, in the fall of 1947. His French was poor, and his English almost non-existent. He listened to the lectures and demonstrations in French and studied medical texts in English as he taught himself both languages.\n\nGraduating in 1954, Mirowski returned to Israel and to a position at the Tel Hashomer Hospital where he became first assistant to Dr. Harry Heller, the chief of medicine, an association which would eventually lead him to his great project. Having decided to practice cardiology, Mirowski studied at the Cardiological Institute in Mexico City and with Dr. Helen Taussig, the pioneering pediatric cardiologist at the Johns Hopkins Hospital in Baltimore.\n\nFor the next 5 years, Mirowski was the sole cardiologist at Asaf Harofeh Hospital, 15 miles from Tel Aviv. In 1966, Professor Heller started having episodes of ventricular tachycardia (a dangerous rapid heart rhythm) and died 2 weeks later while at dinner with his family.\n\nMirowski wondered what could have been done to prevent his mentor's death. He reasoned that it should be possible to implant a defibrillator in the body that would convert arrhythmias when they occurred. He consulted cardiologists who knew more about such devices. They told him that debrillators could not be miniaturized. In an era when defibrillators weighed 30 to 40 pounds, it seemed preposterous to propose reducing it to the size of a cigarette box.\n\nMirowski decided that only in the United States could he find the funds and technical support for the project that was becoming almost an obsession for him. Through an American colleague, Mirowski learned of a job at Sinai Hospital of Baltimore, an affiliate of the Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, where he would be director of the coronary care unit but have half of his time to work on his defibrillator. So his family, which now consisted of Anna and their three daughters - each of whom would become a doctor -returned to the United States.\n\nFor the next 12 years, Mirowski and his colleagues developed their device and miniaturized it to be implanted in patients. On February 4, 1980, the first patient received a defibrillator, installed in an operating room at the Johns Hopkins Hospital. Since then, the device Mirowski invented, much improved and further miniaturized, has been installed in millions of patients.\n\nIn the mid 1980s, Mirowski developed multiple myeloma, a cancer of the blood. When his medical condition became desperate, and fighting against the odds as usual, he insisted on receiving the most intensive chemotherapy. When the disease stopped responding, his oncologist raised the possibility of a bone marrow transplantation, then in experimental development for the treatment of myeloma. A near relative as donor would be needed. Mirowski's brother, Abraham, had died in the Holocaust. Mirowski died on March 26, 1990 at the age of 65 years.\n\nThough his work had been ridiculed for many years—someone described it as a \"bomb inside the body\"—and he was long unable to obtain grants to support the development of the defibrillator, the last 5 years of his life brought Mirowski both recognition and acclaim. Professional societies and leaders of academic medical institutions honored him. He received invitations to write more articles and give more lectures than he could accept. So he picked and chose, accommodating his friends and those who supported him in darker times. Often with his wife or children, he traveled where he wished since now he was welcome everywhere.\n\nWhen he spoke overseas, Mirowski usually lectured in English, but he often discussed his papers during the question and answer period in the language of the country he was visiting. He spoke French, Hebrew, Polish, Russian, Spanish and Yiddish fluently, but he never learned Italian and refused to learn German.\n\nMirowski was inducted into the National Inventors Hall of Fame for co-inventing with Morton Mower the automatic implantable cardioverter defibrillator (ICD) in the 1960s after his mentor died of a heart arrhythmia. The Patent number is 4,202,340 \n\n\n"}
{"id": "38890772", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38890772", "title": "New Testament people named Mary", "text": "New Testament people named Mary\n\nThe name \"Mary\" (Greek ' or ') appears 61 times in the New Testament, in 53 different verses. It was the single most popular female name among Palestinian Jews of the time, borne by about one in five women, and most of the New Testament references to \"Mary\" provide only the barest identifying information. Scholars and traditions therefore differ as to how many distinct women these references represent and which of them refer to the same person.\n\nA common Protestant tradition holds that there are six different women named as \"Mary\" in the New Testament: Mary, mother of Jesus; Mary Magdalene; Mary of Bethany; Mary mother of James the younger; Mary mother of John Mark; and Mary of Rome.\n\nA common Roman Catholic tradition includes six New Testament saints called \"Mary\": Mary, mother of Jesus; Mary Magdalene; Mary, mother of James and Joses; (Mary) Salome (who is also identified as the mother of James and Joseph the sons of Zebedee); Mary of Clopas; Mary of Bethany, sister of Martha and Lazarus.\n\nAnd there are other variations. In most traditions at least three Marys are present at the Crucifixion and at the Resurrection, but again traditions differ as to the identities of these three, and as to whether they are the same three at these two events.\n\nMary the mother of Jesus, also known as \"the Madonna\", is one of the main characters of the Gospels. The terms \"Mariology\" and, in the context of Christianity, \"Marian\" (for example in \"Marian devotions\" and \"Marian apparition\"), both most commonly refer to this person.\n\nShe is mentioned by name twelve times in the Gospel of Luke, five times in the Gospel of Matthew, once in the Gospel of Mark and once in the Book of Acts.\n\nNearly all of these mentions by name are within Christmas story, which appears only in Matthew and Luke, not in Mark or John. Only two of the Gospel passages that mention this Mary by name, and , are later in Jesus' life, and they are generally accepted as parallel passages describing the same event. In addition and both describe Mary's visit to Jesus as an adult but without mentioning her by name, and describes an event from Jesus' later childhood with Mary again a major player but not mentioned by name.\n\nThe Gospel of John mentions her twice but without naming her, and is the only one of the Gospels to explicitly state that she was present at the Crucifixion. Matthew and Mark both list two women named \"Mary\" as present, but most traditions do not identify either of these with the mother of Jesus, leading to the conclusion that there were three Marys present. Matthew and Mark also record the attendance of many other women whom they do not name, and Luke does not identify by name any of the \"many women\" present.\n\nAll traditions affirm her presence at the Crucifixion. Roman Catholic tradition assigns her feast days of January 1 (Mother of God), March 25 (Annunciation), August 15 (Assumption) and December 8 (Immaculate Conception), while the Church of England celebrates March 25 (Annunciation), May 31 or 2 July (visitation to Elizabeth), 15 August (Blessed Virgin), 8 September (Birth, and alternative date for Blessed Virgin) and 13 December (Conception). The Lutheran church commemorates her at lesser festivals on May 31 (visitation to Elizabeth) and August 15 (Mother of Our Lord).\n\nSee also:\n\n\nMary Magdalene is named three times in Matthew, four times in Mark, twice in Luke and three times in John, and was given the title \"Apostle to the Apostles\" by no less a person than St Augustine.\n\nAll four Gospels name her as one of the small group of women who found the tomb empty, all but Luke name her as one of the many women present at the Crucifixion, and Luke names none of \"the women who had followed him from Galilee\", which would include her. Matthew and Mark both name her as one of the small group who placed the body in the tomb.\n\nPrior to the Crucifixion, however, the only explicit mention of her is in , in which she is one of only three named of the many women accompanying Jesus in his travels. Here she is also described as one of the \"women who had been healed of evil spirits and infirmities\", and as the one \"from whom seven demons had gone out\".\n\nSeveral scholars and traditions identify her with other women in the New Testament, but none of these are universally accepted.\n\nRoman Catholic tradition, in particular, has from time to time identified her with both Mary of Bethany and with the unnamed woman \"who was a sinner\" of , resulting in the view that she is mentioned more times than Mary, the mother of Jesus, in the New Testament, and also giving rise to the legend that made her a model of a penitent sinner and even, according to Pope Gregory, a reformed prostitute. This view, which was taken to its extreme in \"Legenda Aurea\" (c. 1260), is no longer affirmed by the Roman Catholic Church but remains in popular devotion.\n\nHer feast day is July 22, and is celebrated then by the Roman Catholic and Lutheran churches and by the Church of England.\n\nMary, the sister of Martha and Lazarus, lived with them in Bethany, near Jerusalem. Jesus visited them there on at least two occasions. \"Mary and Martha\" are mentioned by name in John 11:1–12:8 and in Luke 10:38–41.\n\nThree other passages, one each in Matthew, Mark and Luke, refer to an unnamed person identified by some but by no means all authorities as this Mary, or as Mary Magdalene, or both. Roman Catholic tradition in particular identifies the person in Luke with both Mary of Bethany and Saint Mary Magdalene.\n\nJohn describes two visits by Jesus to Mary and Martha. In , Jesus raises Mary's brother Lazarus from death. Mary, Martha and Lazarus already appear to be very close friends of Jesus at this time. On a subsequent visit in , Mary anoints Jesus' feet.\n\nIn , Jesus dines at the home of a Pharisee named Simon, but here the locality is not given. A \"woman of the city, who was a sinner\" anoints his feet, and again her name is not given. Many scholars regard this as the same incident as described in Matthew 26 and Mark 14, again despite some discrepancies. Some authorities identify this person as Mary Magdalene, and some the event as that in John 12, again with some discrepancies.\n\nIn summary, each of the four Gospels reports an anointing. Matthew and Mark are generally agreed to describe the same event. Authorities differ as to the others, and only in John is Mary named.\n\nIn , Jesus visits Mary and Martha in an unnamed village, and Lazarus is not mentioned. It is generally agreed that these are the same Mary and Martha as in John 11-12, but whether this Mary is also the unnamed woman in Matthew 26, Mark 14 and Luke 7 (or even whether the unnamed woman in Luke is the same one as in Matthew and Mark) is not generally agreed.\n\nThe Lutheran church commemorates her together with Martha and Lazarus on 29 July.\n\nMary, the wife of Clopas, is named only once in the New Testament, in , where she is listed as one of four women standing by the Cross, the others being Mary the mother of Jesus, her sister (or perhaps cousin, the Aramaic words being the same), and Mary Magdalene. An alternative reading is that the list is of only three women, and that Mary of Clopas is also the sister (or cousin) of Mary the mother of Jesus, as some traditions maintain. The passage could also be interpreted to mean that Mary of Clopas is Clopas' daughter, rather than his wife, but this is not the general view.\n\nMany scholars identify her with \"the other Mary\" mentioned twice in Matthew, and also therefore with \"Mary mother of James (the younger)\" in the parallel passages in Mark. This is also the Roman Catholic tradition. Her feast day is April 24.\n\nSome scholars suggest that \"Clopas\" is a variant spelling of \"Cleopas\", and that Mary of Clopas is Cleopas' wife and also the unnamed person who is with him when they meet the risen Christ on the Emmaus Road in . This is a minority view.\n\nJames Tabor suggests that Mary of Clopas is the same person as Mary the mother of Jesus, and that Clopas is her second husband, Joseph having died. This reading of John 19:25 then also shortens the list there to three: This Mary, her sister (or cousin), and Mary Magdalene. This view is controversial.\n\nThere are five passages generally agreed to refer to \"Mary the mother of James the younger and of Joses\", and two others which may refer either to her or to another \"Mary\" who was the mother of a different \"James\".\n\"Mary, mother of James\" is mentioned explicitly in four passages:\n\nMost authorities agree that Mark 15:40 and 16:1 refer to the same person, but traditions and authorities differ as to the Matthew and Luke passages. Some regard them all as a single person, some as two (in various combinations), and some even as three different people. If three, then the Matthew and Luke passages are the only explicit references to either of these other two. There is a similar variety of opinions as to exactly which person is referred to as \"James\" on each occasion.\n\nRoman Catholic tradition identifies the person in the Matthew passage as Saint Mary Salome. According to this reading, \"Mary the mother of James and Joseph\" is distinct from the \"mother of the sons of Zebedee\" who is referred to as Saint Mary Salome, and the other references to \"mother of James\" refer to Saint Mary of James. Protestant tradition similarly identifies two different people as being described as \"Mary mother of James\", one being the mother of James the younger and the other being the mother of James, son of Zebedee. \n\nIn addition to the references to \"Mary mother of James\" in Mark 15:40 and 16:1, states that \"Mary Magdalene and Mary the mother of Joses saw where he was laid.\" Most authorities identify the person named \"Mary\" accompanying Mary Magdalene in these three passages as the same person, and hold also that she is \"the other Mary\" named twice in Matthew, see below, making at least five references to her in total.\n\nIf so this person could be unambiguously described as either \"Mary mother of Joses\" or \"Mary mother of James the younger\", but despite the former name appearing in both Mark 15:40 and 15:47 as opposed to only Mark 15:40 for the latter, it is \"mother of James the younger\" which has been generally adopted. She is also sometimes referred to as \"Mary, mother of James son of Alphaeus\", and identified by Roman Catholic tradition as Mary Jacobe.\n\nThe Lutheran church commemorates her together with Joanna and Salome on August 3, and the Roman Catholic church on May 25.\n\nTwo passages in Matthew refer to \"Mary Magdalene and the other Mary\":\n\nIt is generally agreed that these four passages refer to the same person accompanying Mary Magdalene, and also that she is the same person named in as \"Mary the mother of James the younger and of Joses\", also in the company of Mary Magdalene on that occasion.\n\nMany authorities identify \"the other Mary\" as \"Mary mother of James the younger\".\n\n\"Mary, the mother of John whose other name was Mark\" is named only once, in , which is the first undisputed reference to John Mark, who is then twice named later in Acts. This John Mark is identified by some with Mark the cousin of Barnabas, and also by some with Mark the Evangelist, notably by the Coptic Church.\n\nIt has been conjectured that she is the same person as Mary of Rome but there is no general support for this.\n\nThe name \"Salome\" appears twice in the New Testament, both times in Mark, and both times in a list of three women, the others being Mary Magdalene and Mary the mother of James (the younger).\n\nRoman Catholic tradition identifies this person as Mary mother of John Mark and also as mother of James, son of Zebedee, and names her \"Mary Salome\" making her the third of the three Marys at the resurrection. She also therefore becomes the person referred as \"the mother of the sons of Zebedee\" (James and Joseph). Her feast day is October 22.\n\nIn Romans , Paul asks the recipients to \"Greet Mary, who has worked hard for you.\" Nothing else is known about this person.\n\n"}
{"id": "41232068", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41232068", "title": "Oorvazi Irani", "text": "Oorvazi Irani\n\nOorvazi Irani is an independent filmmaker based in Mumbai, India. Apart from being a filmmaker, she is a film educationalist, an acting coach, and a film critic and the Director of her home production company SBI Impresario Pvt. Ltd incorporated by her father Sorab Irani in 1975. Currently, she has directed The Path of Zarathustra a movie on Parsis. She has also directed two short films “The K File” and “Mamaiji” (Grandmother). As a film educationalist she heads the subject of film at the SVKM J.V. Parekh International school in Mumbai, India besides teaching as a freelance educationalist at various prestigious film institutions on special invitation. She has also recently introduced the Michael Chekhov Acting technique to India with her DVD which she has researched, presented, directed and co-produced.\n\nOorvazi was born in a cultured Parsi family in January, 1977. Her family background has had an important contribution in shaping her artistic sensibility.\n\nHer father Sorab Irani is a filmmaker himself. He had started his career as General Manager of Himalaya Films, a production & distribution company of Shree Chetan Anand, Dev Anand and Vijay Anand and later got associated with European television and Channel Four. He was also trained in Indian classical music. Oorvazi’s association with her father since childhood has influenced her in developing her passion and understanding of cinema as well as music.\n\nAs a child, her close association with her aunt Dr. Mrs. Khurshid B. Shroff, who is a Bharata Natayam Dancer & Teacher and a PHD in dance, inducted Oorvazi into the sphere of dance, without any formal training of it.\n\nShe did her graduation in Arts from the Jai Hind College, Mumbai. After that she pursued the FTII & NFAI Film Appreciation Course designed for teacher’s training as well as the Online Teacher’s IB Film Course. During her term in college she started assisting her father on a travelogue series “Ramayana a Journey” that he was producing for Channel Four Television, London. The concept behind this film was following the route that Lord Rama had taken during his journey from Ayodhya to Lanka. Oorvazi became the head of research for this project and also assisted in direction. It took 3 years in making and was completed in 1997.\n\nOorvazi started her career as the Director of her home media production company SBI Impresario Pvt. Ltd. incorporated by her father in 1975. She has been involved with international critically acclaimed film projects with her company in the area of research, production and direction.\n\nApart from running the home production company, Oorvazi also took up the role of a film educationalist. She currently heads the subject of film at the ‘SVKM J.V.Parekh International School’. Besides this, she also has conducted Film Appreciation modules at various prestigious institutions including The Mumbai University Post Graduate One Year Diploma Course for Film and Television, The Digital Academy Film School Mumbai, Kishore Namit Kapoor Acting Institute, The Institute of Creative Excellence – ICE, the Education division of Balaji Telefilm and ‘Understanding Cinema’ module of the BMM syllabus at The Ghanshyamdas Saraf Girls College, Mumbai (Affiliated to the University of Mumbai). She has been invited to conduct the filmmaking workshop at Birla Institute of Science and Technology, Goa Campus for their Waves winter 2009 cultural festival.\n\nOorvazi’s association with acting and actors as an artist made her curious to understand the process of acting. She started researching on this topic extensively and came across the revolutionary Michael Chekhov Acting Technique. The Michael Chekhov technique was developed by Mikhail Aleksandrovich Chekhov aka Michael Chekhov, who as a student of Stanislavski furthered his technique of method acting and molded it into an exercise to get to the core of a character. Chekhov trained Hollywood actors like Marilyn Monroe, Anthony Quinn, Clint Eastwood, Mala Powers, Yul Brynner. Apart from his direct students, other actors have also benefited from his technique described in his book, ‘On the Technique of Acting’. Significant among them are actors like Johnny Depp and Anthony Hopkins, who have cited this book as a major influence on their acting.\nOorvazi was the pioneer in bringing this Michael Chekhov acting technique to India. As an acting coach, she taught this technique to her students. She has recently come out with a DVD titled ‘The Michael Chekhov Acting Technique’. The DVD is a step by step Guide to understanding the Basic Tools and Fundamental Concepts of the Michael Chekhov Acting technique. The President of the Chekhov Association, USA, Joanna Merlin, endorsed the DVD by stating:\n\nFilmmaker Ashutosh Gowarikar, after watching this DVD, gave the following feedback to Oorvazi:\n\nRecently Oorvazi has conducted a special seminar cum workshop for the Russian Culture Centre on the Michael Chekhov Acting Technique where her DVD was also screened. She has also conducted special acting modules of the Acting technique on special invitation for reputed organizations like Thespo14 @ Prithvi (which is the most popular youth theater group based in Mumbai), Kishore Namit Kapoor Acting Institute(which is the acting school for big stars like Hritik Roshan, Kareena Kapoor, Priyanka Chopra etc.), and a special module for non-actors at the popular indie film community platform www.madaboutmovies.com . This is besides the regular courses that she conducts as a freelance independent acting coach for the technique, for amateurs and professionals.\n\nAfter completion of her father’s project, ‘Ramayana a Journey’, she also got involved in another one of his projects, a documentary called ‘Lord Ganesha – The Elephant Head God’. This film traced the origins of Lord Ganesha, the mythological stories associated with him as well as captured the essence of the Ganesh Chaturthi festival in Mumbai. Oorvazi acted as an associate director in this project.\nOorvazi has also been a freelance photo editor in 2004 for Life Positive Magazine and in 2006 the CEO for the south Mumbai branch of the Kishore Namit Kapoor Acting institute.\n\nAs the Director of SBI Impresario she has been the project consultant for the art show ‘Unity in Diversity: Artists from Auroville’ at the Cymroza Art Gallery in September 2007.\n\nIn 2011 she researched, scripted and directed her first independent short film “Mamaiji” (Parsis in India refer to their maternal grandmother as Mamaiji). The film is as much about an archetypical grandmother as it is about the personal story of Moti (Morvarid) Nadirshah Roowalla, the director’s Mamaiji(grandmother), who was born in Iran in 1927, and now lives in India. The film is a portrait of a grandmother sans a realistic treatment, rather the film’s time and space is suspended in an artistic realm beyond the real and the unreal and therein lies it’s charm.\n\nThis film has had private screenings in some prestigious film institutes like FTII and NFAI in Poona as well as certain private viewings. It was received warmly by viewers and film enthusiasts. Veteran filmmaker Govind Nihalani, after watching this film, remarked:\n\nIn early 2012, celebrated author and screenwriter Farrukh Dhondy came to Sorab Irani, his close friend with a very interesting script.It was a quasi-realistic take on the judgement of Ajmal Kasab, the lone surviving terrorist of 26/11 Mumbai attacks and presented an alternate ending to Kasab’s fate(It may be recalled that the decision of Kasab’s hanging was pending at that time). Sorab immediately recognized the potency of the script and wanted his daughter Oorvazi to direct the film. On receiving the script, Oorvazi’s response was (In her own words):\n\nThat was how ‘The K File’ happened. The 10 min short film dealing with the Kasab paradox created quite a stir. It was released on YouTube in May, 2012 and became an instant success. ‘The K File’ has been viewed online by millions of people. Priyanka Dasgupta of ‘The Times of India’ came out with an article titled, ‘Kasab is now Asab’, in which she praised the film and declared that it was now \"‘A talking point in cyberland’\" She has also been an integral part of research and writing for the international textbook on Indian cinema “From Aan to Lagaan and Beyond” published in 2012.\n"}
{"id": "3909407", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3909407", "title": "Peter Milton", "text": "Peter Milton\n\nPeter Winslow Milton (born 1930) is a colorblind American artist who was diagnosed with deuteranopia after hearing a comment about the pink in his landscapes.\n\nA creator of black and white etchings and engravings that often display an extraordinary degree of photo-realistic detail placed in the service of a truly visionary aesthetic, his themes include architecture, history, myth, and memory, their intersections and hidden juxtapositions. His pieces often compress long periods of time into a single moment, as in \"Family Reunion\" and \"The Train from Munich.\"\n\nPeter Milton received his MFA from Yale University in 1961. His work has been exhibited in most major museums in the U.S. and Europe, including the Metropolitan Museum of Art and the Museum of Modern Art, New York, the British Museum and the Tate Gallery, London, and the Bibliothèque Nationale, Paris. Two major book collections of his work have been published: \"The Primacy of Touch: The Drawings of Peter Milton\" (New York: Hudson Hills Press, 1993) and \"Peter Milton: Complete Prints 1960-1996\" (San Francisco: Chronicle Books, 1996).\n\n"}
{"id": "1469791", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1469791", "title": "Robert Bateman (painter)", "text": "Robert Bateman (painter)\n\nRobert Bateman, (born 24 May 1930) is a Canadian naturalist and painter, born in Toronto, Ontario.\n\nRobert was always interested in art, but never intended to make a living from it. He was fascinated by the natural world in his childhood; he recorded the sightings of all of the birds in the area of his house in Toronto and did small paintings with birds in their habitats. He found inspiration from the Group of Seven; later, he became interested in making abstract paintings of nature. It was not until the mid-1960s that he changed to his present style, realism. In 1954, he graduated with a degree in geography from Victoria College in the University of Toronto. Afterwards, he attended Ontario College of Education. Starting in 1957, Bateman travelled around the world for 14 months in a Land Rover with his friend Bristol Foster. As they made their way through Africa, India, Southeast Asia, and Australia, Bateman painted and sketched what he saw.\n\nBateman became a high school teacher of art and geography, and continued focusing his life on art and nature. His work started to receive major recognition in the 1970s and 1980s. Robert Bateman's show in 1987, at the Smithsonian Institution in Washington, DC, drew the largest crowd for a living artist.\n\nThe majority of Bateman's paintings are acrylic on various media, and have been shown in major one-man exhibitions around the world. Bateman also has numerous books devoted to his works. After two decades as a high school teacher, he became a full-time artist in 1976. A year later Mill Pond Press started making signed, limited edition prints of some of his paintings; over the years, these prints resulted in millions of dollars being raised for environmental causes.\n\nIn 1999, the Audubon Society of Canada declared Bateman one of the top 100 environmental proponents of the 20th century.\n\nRobert Bateman Secondary School in Abbotsford, British Columbia, Robert Bateman High School in Burlington, Ontario, and Robert Bateman Public School, Ottawa, Ontario are named for him. He is an Honorary Director of the North American Native Plant Society, and has received thirteen honorary doctorates from institutions like the University of Victoria, University of Toronto, Royal Roads University, and McGill University.\n\nA permanent home for his works can be found in the Inner Harbour of Victoria, BC. The Robert Bateman Centre houses the definitive collection of his works, and also includes a dynamic program of public events. It supports the Bateman Foundation, a not for profit organization to encourage dialogue about humanity's relationship to the natural world.\n\nRobert Bateman married Suzanne Bowerman in 1960. They had three children: Alan, Sarah, and John.\n\nIn 1975, Bateman married Birgit Freybe Bateman. Their two children are Christopher and Robert.\n\nIn the early 1980s Bateman and Birgit moved to Salt Spring Island. The couple purchased a home located on Reginald Hill Road, looking out on Fulford Harbour, that was designed by Hank Schubart and originally built for actress Eileen Brennan. In the early 2000s the Batemans moved from the Reginald Hill house to a house on a lake in Salt Spring designed by their son in law, Robert Barnard.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35262309", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35262309", "title": "Roy Marten", "text": "Roy Marten\n\nWicaksono Abdul Salam (born 1 March 1952), better known by his stage name Roy Marten, is an Indonesian actor.\n\nMarten was born as Wicaksono Abdul Salam on 1 March 1952 in Salatiga, Central Java. He began his acting career in 1974 with the film \"Bobby\". He achieved fame with his starring role in \"Cintaku di Kampus Biru\" (\"My Love on the Blue Campus\"), a 1976 film based on the novel by Ashari Siregar. Among his more notable roles from the time are as the lead actor of Teguh Karya's 1977 film \"Badai Pasti Berlalu\" (\"The Storm Will Surely Pass\"). By the end of the 1970s, he was one of the five highest paid actors in Indonesia.\n\nMarten was arrested in 2006 for drug use. He was found in possession of two packages of crystal meth, weighing a combined total of , at a friend's house. Marten was sentenced to ten months in prison, but released on 1 October 2006 after serving nine months. Marten was arrested for possession again in Surabaya while promoting an anti-drug campaign in 2008; three others were also arrested. In April Marten was sentenced to three years in prison; however, he was later released in May 2010.\n\nIn 2010, after his release from prison, Marten played in \"Selimut Berdarah\" (\"The Bloody Blanket\"). In 2012 he played mob boss Sonny Wibisono in \"Dilema\" (\"Dilemma\"), directed by four directors in collaboration.\n\nMarten's first marriage was to Farida Sabtijastuti. The pair later divorced. On 1 April 1985 Marten married Anna Maria Sofiana, a Malay Indonesian Muslim model who has converted to Christianity after marriage. Together they have six children, two of whom – Gading Marten and Gibran Marten  – are also actors.\n\n"}
{"id": "29010", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29010", "title": "Saint George", "text": "Saint George\n\nSaint George (, \"Geṓrgios\"; ; d. 23 April 303), was a Roman soldier of Greek origin and a member of the Praetorian Guard for Roman emperor Diocletian, who was sentenced to death for refusing to recant his Christian faith. He became one of the most venerated saints and megalo-martyrs in Christianity, and was especially venerated by the Crusaders.\n\nIn hagiography, as one of the Fourteen Holy Helpers and one of the most prominent military saints, he is immortalised in the legend of Saint George and the Dragon. His memorial, Saint George's Day, is traditionally celebrated on 23 April. (See under \"Feast days\" below for the use of the Julian calendar by the Eastern Orthodox Church.)\n\nEngland, Georgia and several other nation states, cities, universities, professions and organisations all claim Saint George as their patron.\n\nThe core of the legend is that George was a Roman officer of Greek descent from Cappadocia or Syria Palaestina who was martyred in one of the pre-Constantinian persecutions. Beyond this, early sources give conflicting information.\nThere are two main versions of the legend, a Greek and a Latin version, which can both be traced to the 5th or 6th century.\nThe saint's veneration dates to the 5th century with some certainty, and possibly still to the 4th. The addition of the dragon legend dates to the 11th century.\n\nThe earliest text preserving fragments of George's narrative is in a Greek hagiography identified by Hippolyte Delehaye of the scholarly Bollandists to be a palimpsest of the 5th century. \nAn earlier work by Eusebius, \"Church history\", written in the 4th century, contributed to the legend but did not name George or provide significant detail.\nThe work of the Bollandists Daniel Papebroch, Jean Bolland, and Godfrey Henschen in the 17th century was one of the first pieces of scholarly research to establish the saint's historicity via their publications in \"Bibliotheca Hagiographica Graeca\". Pope Gelasius I stated that George was among those saints \"whose names are justly reverenced among men, but whose actions are known only to God.\"\nA critical edition of a Syriac \"Acta\" of Saint George, accompanied by an annotated English translation, was published by E.W. Brooks (1863–1955) in 1925.\n\nThe compiler of this \"Acta Sancti Georgii\", according to Hippolyte Delehaye, \"confused the martyr with his namesake, the celebrated George of Cappadocia, the Arian intruder into the see of Alexandria and enemy of St. Athanasius\".\n\nIn the Greek tradition, George was born in to Greek Christian parents, in Cappadocia.\nHis father died for the faith when he was fourteen, and his mother returned with George to her homeland of Syria Palaestina.\nA few years later, George's mother died. George travels to the capital Nicomedia and joins the Roman army. \nGeorge is persecuted by one \"Dadianus\". \nIn later versions of the Greek legend, this name is rationalized to Diocletian, and George's martyrdom is placed in the Diocletian persecution of AD 303. The setting in Nicodemia is also secondary, and inconsistent with the earliest cultus of the saint being located in Diospolis.\n\nGeorge was executed by decapitation before Nicomedia's city wall, on 23 April 303. A witness of his suffering convinced Empress Alexandra of Rome to become a Christian as well, so she joined George in martyrdom. His body was returned to Lydda for burial, where Christians soon came to honour him as a martyr.\n\nThe Latin \"Acta Sancti Georgii\" (6th century) follows the general course of the Greek legend, but Diocletian here becomes \"Dacian, Emperor of the Persians\". George lives and dies in Melitene in Cappadocia.\nHis martyrdom is greatly extended, to more than twenty separate tortures over the course of seven years.\nOver the course of his martyrdom, 40,900 pagans are converted to Christianity, including the empress Alexandra. When George finally dies, the wicked Dacian is carried away in a whirlwind of fire.\nIn later Latin versions, the persecutor is the Roman emperor Decius, or a Roman judge named Dacian serving under Diocletian.\n\nThere is little information on the early life of Saint George. Herbert Thurston in \"The Catholic Encyclopedia\" states that based upon an ancient cultus, narratives of the early pilgrims, and the early dedications of churches to Saint George, going back to the fourth century, \"there seems, therefore, no ground for doubting the historical existence of St. George\", although no faith can be placed in either the details of his history or his alleged exploits.\nAccording to Donald Attwater, \"No historical particulars of his life have survived, ... The widespread veneration for St George as a soldier saint from early times had its centre in Palestine at Diospolis, now Lydda. St George was apparently martyred there, at the end of the third or the beginning of the fourth century; that is all that can be reasonably surmised about him.\"\n\nHerbert Thurston in the saint's entry in the early 20th century \"Catholic Encyclopedia\" takes the position that there are no grounds for doubting the historical existence of Saint George, \"but no faith can be placed in the attempts that have been made to fill up any of the details of his history.\"\n\nIt has been established that Saint George the Martyr and the Arian Bishop George of Alexandria were not identical; furthermore that Bishop George was slain by Gentile Greeks for exacting onerous taxes, especially inheritance taxes. And that Saint George in all likelihood was martyred before the year 290. Although the Diocletianic Persecution of 303, associated with military saints because the persecution was aimed at Christians among the professional soldiers of the Roman army, is of undisputed historicity, the identity of Saint George as a historical individual had not been ascertained as of Edmund Spenser's day,\n\nEdward Gibbon argued that George, or at least the legend from which the above is distilled, is based on George of Cappadocia, a notorious Arian bishop who was Athanasius of Alexandria's most bitter rival, and that it was he who in time became Saint George of England. J. B. Bury (16 October 1861 – 1 June 1927), who edited the 1906 edition of \"The Decline and Fall\", wrote \"this theory of Gibbon's has nothing to be said for it.\" He adds that: \"the connection of St. George with a dragon-slaying legend does not relegate him to the region of the myth\".\n\nThe legend of Saint George and the Dragon is first recorded in the 11th century, in a Georgian source.\nIt reaches Europe in the 12th century. In The Golden Legend, by 13th-century Archbishop of Genoa Jacobus da Varagine, George's death is at the hands of Dacian, and about the year 287.\nThe \"Golden Legend\" offered a historicised narration of George's encounter with a dragon.\nThis account was very influential, and it remains the most familiar version in English owing to William Caxton's 15th-century translation.\n\nIn the medieval romances, the lance with which Saint George slew the dragon was called Ascalon after the Levantine city of Ashkelon, today in Israel. The name \"Ascalon\" was used by Winston Churchill for his personal aircraft during World War II, according to records at Bletchley Park. In Sweden, the princess rescued by Saint George is held to represent the kingdom of Sweden, while the dragon represents an invading army. Several sculptures of Saint George battling the dragon can be found in Stockholm, the earliest inside Storkyrkan (\"The Great Church\") in the Old Town. Iconography of the horseman with spear overcoming evil was widespread throughout the Christian period.\n\nGeorge (, \"Jiriyas\" or \"Girgus\") is included in some Muslim texts as a prophetic figure. The Islamic sources state that he lived among a group of believers who were in direct contact with last apostles of Jesus. He is described as a rich merchant who opposed erection of Apollo's statue by Mosul's king Dadan. After confronting the king, George was tortured many times to no effect, was imprisoned and was aided by the angels. Eventually, he exposed that the idols were possessed by Satan, but was martyred when the city was destroyed by God in a rain of fire.\n\nMuslim scholars had tried to find a historical connection of the saint due to his popularity. According to Muslim legend, he was martyred under the rule of Diocletian and was killed three times but resurrected every time. The legend is more developed in the Persian version of al-Tabari wherein he resurrects the dead, makes trees sprout and pillars bear flowers. After one of his deaths, the world is covered by darkness and is lifted only when he is resurrected. He is able to convert the queen but she is put to death. He then prays to God to allow him to die which is granted.\n\nAl-Tha`labi states that he was from Palestine and lived in the times of some disciples of Jesus. He was killed many times by the king of Mosul, and resurrected each time. When he tried to starve him, he touched a piece of dry wood brought by a woman and turned it green, with varieties of fruits and vegetables growing from it. After his fourth death, the city was burnt along with him. Ibn al-Athir's account of one of his deaths is parallel to the crucifixion of Jesus, stating, \"When he died, God sent stormy winds and thunder and lightning and dark clouds, so that darkness fell between heaven and earth, and people were in great wonderment...\" The account adds that the darkness was lifted after his resurrection.\n\nA titular church built in Lydda during the reign of Constantine the Great (reigned 306–37) was consecrated to \"a man of the highest distinction\", according to the church history of Eusebius; the name of the \"titulus\" \"patron\" was not disclosed, but later he was asserted to have been George.\n\nThe veneration of George spread from Syria Palaestina through Lebanon to the rest of the Byzantine Empire – though the martyr is not mentioned in the Syriac \"Breviarium\" – and the region east of the Black Sea. \nBy the 5th century, the veneration of Saint George had reached the Christian Western Roman Empire, as well: in 494, George was canonized as a saint by Pope Gelasius I, among those \"whose names are justly reverenced among men, but whose acts are known only to [God].\"\n\nThe early cult of the saint was localized in Diospolis (Lydda), in Palestine.\nThe first description of Lydda as a pilgrimage site where George's relics were venerated is \"De Situ Terrae Sanctae\" by\nthe archdeacon Theodosius, written between 518 and 530.\nBy the end of the 6th century, the center of his veneration appears to have shifted to Cappadocia.\nThe \"Life\" of Saint Theodore of Sykeon, written in the 7th century, mentions the veneration of the relics of the saint in Cappadocia.\n\nBy the time of the early Muslim conquests of the mostly Christian and Zoroastrian Middle East, a basilica in Lydda dedicated to Saint George existed. The church was destroyed by Muslims in 1010, but was later rebuilt and dedicated to Saint George by the Crusaders. In 1191 and during the conflict known as the Third Crusade (1189–92), the church was again destroyed by the forces of Saladin, Sultan of the Ayyubid dynasty (reigned 1171–93). A new church was erected in 1872 and is still standing.\n\nIn England, he was mentioned among the martyrs by the 8th-century monk Bede. The \"Georgslied\" is an adaptation of his legend in Old High German, composed in the late 9th century. The earliest dedication to the saint in England is a church at Fordington, Dorset that is mentioned in the will of Alfred the Great. Saint George did not rise to the position of \"patron saint\" of England, however, until the 14th century, and he was still obscured by Edward the Confessor, the traditional patron saint of England, until in 1552 during the reign of Edward VI all saints' banners other than George's were abolished in the English Reformation.\nBelief in an apparition of St. George heartened the Franks at the Battle of Antioch in 1098, which made a similar appearance the following year at Jerusalem. The chivalric military Order of Sant Jordi d'Alfama was established by king Peter the Catholic from the Crown of Aragon in 1201, Republic of Genoa, Kingdom of Hungary (1326), and by Frederick III, Holy Roman Emperor, and in England the 1222 Synod of Oxford declared Saint George's Day a feast day in the kingdom of England. Edward III of England put his Order of the Garter under the banner of St. George, probably in 1348. The chronicler Jean Froissart observed the English invoking Saint George as a battle cry on several occasions during the Hundred Years' War. In his rise as a national saint, George was aided by the very fact that the saint had no legendary connection with England, and no specifically localized shrine, as that of Thomas Becket at Canterbury: \"Consequently, numerous shrines were established during the late fifteenth century,\" Muriel C. McClendon has written, \"and his did not become closely identified with a particular occupation or with the cure of a specific malady.\"\n\nThe establishment of George as a popular and protective saint in the West that had captured the medieval imagination was codified by the official elevation of his feast to a \"festum duplex\" at a church council in 1416, on the date that had become associated with his martyrdom, 23 April. Wide latitude existed from community to community in celebration of the day across late medieval and early modern England, and no uniform \"national\" celebration elsewhere, a token of the popular and vernacular nature of George's \"cultus\" and its local horizons, supported by a local guild or confraternity under George's protection, or the dedication of a local church. When the English Reformation severely curtailed the saints' days in the calendar, Saint George's Day was among the holidays that continued to be observed.\n\nGeorge is renowned throughout the Middle East, as both saint and prophet. His veneration by Christians and Muslims lies in his composite personality combining several Biblical, Quranic and other ancient mythical heroes.\nWilliam Dalrymple, reviewing the literature in 1999, tells us that J. E. Hanauer in his 1907 book \"Folklore of the Holy Land: Muslim, Christian and Jewish\" \"mentioned a shrine in the village of Beit Jala, beside Bethlehem, which at the time was frequented by Christians who regarded it as the birthplace of St. George and by some Jews who regarded it as the burial place of the Prophet Elias. According to Hanauer, in his day the monastery was \"a sort of madhouse. Deranged persons of all the three faiths are taken thither and chained in the court of the chapel, where they are kept for forty days on bread and water, the Eastern Orthodox priest at the head of the establishment now and then reading the Gospel over them, or administering a whipping as the case demands.' In the 1920s, according to Taufiq Canaan's \"Mohammedan Saints and Sanctuaries in Palestine\", nothing seemed to have changed, and all three communities were still visiting the shrine and praying together.\"\n\nDalrymple himself visited the place in 1995. \"I asked around in the Christian Quarter in Jerusalem, and discovered that the place was very much alive. With all the greatest shrines in the Christian world to choose from, it seemed that when the local Arab Christians had a problem – an illness, or something more complicated: a husband detained in an Israeli prison camp, for example – they preferred to seek the intercession of Saint George in his grubby little shrine at Beit Jala rather than praying at the Church of the Holy Sepulchre in Jerusalem or the Church of the Nativity in Bethlehem.\" He asked the priest at the shrine \"Do you get many Muslims coming here?\" The priest replied, \"We get hundreds! Almost as many as the Christian pilgrims. Often, when I come in here, I find Muslims all over the floor, in the aisles, up and down.\"\n\nThe \"Encyclopædia Britannica\" quotes G.A. Smith in his \"Historic Geography of the Holy Land\" p. 164 saying \"The Mahommedans who usually identify St. George with the prophet Elijah, at Lydda confound his legend with one about Christ himself. Their name for Antichrist is Dajjal, and they have a tradition that Jesus will slay Antichrist by the gate of Lydda. The notion sprang from an ancient bas-relief of George and the Dragon on the Lydda church. But Dajjal may be derived, by a very common confusion between n and l, from Dagon, whose name two neighbouring villages bear to this day, while one of the gates of Lydda used to be called the Gate of Dagon.\"\n\nSaint George is described as a prophetic figure in Islamic sources. George is venerated by some Christians and Muslims because of his composite personality combining several Biblical, Quranic and other ancient mythical heroes. In some of he is identified with Elijah or Mar Elis, George or Mar Jirjus and in others as al-Khidr. The last epithet meaning the \"green prophet\", is common to both Christian and Muslim folk piety. Samuel Curtiss who visited an artificial cave dedicated to him where he is identified with Elijah, reports that childless Muslim women used to visit the shrine to pray for children. Per tradition, he was brought to his place of martyrdom in chains, thus priests of Church of St. George chain the sick especially the mentally ill to a chain for overnight or longer for healing. This is sought after by both Muslims and Christians.\n\nAccording to Elizabeth Anne Finn's \"Home in the Holy land\" (1866):\n\nThe mosque of Nabi Jurjis which was restored by Timur in the 14th century, was located in Mosul and supposedly contained the tomb of George. It was however destroyed in July 2014 by the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant, who also destroyed the Mosque of the Prophet Sheeth (Seth) and the Mosque of the Prophet Younis (Jonah). The militants claim such mosques have become places for apostasy instead of prayer.\n\nGeorge or \"Hazrat\" Jurjays was the patron saint of Mosul. Along with Theodosius, he was revered by both Christian and Muslim communities of Jazira and Anatolia. The wall paintings of Kırk Dam Altı Kilise at Belisırma dedicated to him are dated between 1282-1304. These painting depicts him as a mounted knight appearing between donors including a Georgian lady called Thamar and her husband, the Emir and Consul Basil, while the Seljuk Sultan Mesud II and Byzantine Emperor Androncius II are also named in the inscriptions.\n\nIn the General Roman Calendar, the feast of Saint George is on 23 April. In the Tridentine Calendar of 1568, it was given the rank of \"Semidouble\". In Pope Pius XII's 1955 calendar this rank was reduced to \"Simple\", and in Pope John XXIII's 1960 calendar to a \"Commemoration\". Since Pope Paul VI's 1969 revision, it appears as an optional \"Memorial\". In some countries, such as England, the rank is higher. In England, it is a Solemnity (Roman Catholic) or Feast (Church of England): if it falls between Palm Sunday and the Second Sunday of Easter inclusive, it is transferred to the Monday after the Second Sunday of Easter.\n\nSaint George is very much honoured by the Eastern Orthodox Church, wherein he is referred to as a \"Great Martyr\", and in Oriental Orthodoxy overall. His major feast day is on 23 April (Julian calendar 23 April currently corresponds to Gregorian calendar 6 May). If, however, the feast occurs before Easter, it is celebrated on Easter Monday, instead. The Russian Orthodox Church also celebrates two additional feasts in honour of St. George. One is on 3 November, commemorating the consecration of a cathedral dedicated to him in Lydda during the reign Constantine the Great (305–37). When the church was consecrated, the relics of the Saint George were transferred there. The other feast is on 26 November for a church dedicated to him in Kiev, \"circa\" 1054.\n\nIn Bulgaria, Saint George's day () is celebrated on 6 May, when it is customary to slaughter and roast a lamb. Saint George's day is also a public holiday.\n\nIn Egypt, the Coptic Orthodox Church of Alexandria refers to Saint George () as the \"Prince of Martyrs\" and celebrates his martyrdom on the 23rd of Paremhat of the Coptic calendar equivalent to 1 May. \nThe Copts also celebrate the consecration of the first church dedicated to him on seventh of the month of Hatour of the Coptic calendar usually equivalent to 17 November.\n\nIn India, the Syro-Malabar Catholic Church, one of the oriental catholic churches (Eastern Catholic Churches) and Malankara orthodox church venerate Saint George. The main pilgrim centers of the saint in India are at Edathua in Alappuzha district and Edappally in Ernakulam district of the southern state of Kerala. The saint is commemorated each year from 27 April to 14 May at Edathua On 27 April after the flag hoisting ceremony by the parish priest, the statue of the saint is taken from one of the altars and placed at the extension of the church to be venerated by the devotees till 14 May. The main feast day is 7 May, when the statue of the saint along with other saints is taken in procession around the church. Intercession to Saint George of Edathua is believed to be efficacious in repelling snakes and in curing mental ailments.The sacred relics of St. George were brought to Antioch from Mardeen in A.D.900 and were taken to Kerala, India from Antioch in 1912 by Mar Dionysius of Vattasseril and kept in the Orthodox seminary at Kundara, Kerala. H.H Mathews II Catholicos had given the relics to St. George churches at Puthupally, Kottayam District and Chandanappally, Pathanamthitta district.\n\nA highly celebrated saint in both the Western and Eastern Christian churches, a large number of Patronages of Saint George exist throughout the world.\n\nSaint George is the patron saint of England. His cross forms the national flag of England, and features within the Union Flag of the United Kingdom, and other national flags containing the Union Flag, such as those of Australia and New Zealand. By the 14th century, the saint had been declared both the patron saint and the protector of the royal family.\nThe country of Georgia, where devotions to the saint date back to the fourth century, is not technically named after the saint, but is a well-attested back-formation of the English name. However, a large number of towns and cities around the world are. Saint George is one of the patron Saints of Georgia; the name Georgia (\"Sakartvelo\" in Georgian) is an anglicisation of \"Gurj\", ultimately derived from the Persian word \"gurj\"/\"gurjān\" (\"wolf\"). Chronicles describing the land as \"Georgie\" or Georgia in French and English, date from the early Middle Ages, as written by the travellers John Mandeville and Jacques de Vitry \"because of their special reverence for Saint George\", but these accounts have been seen as folk etymology and are rejected by the scholarly community. Exactly 365 Orthodox churches in Georgia are named after Saint George according to the number of days in a year. According to legend, Saint George was cut into 365 pieces after he fell in battle and every single piece was spread throughout the entire country.\n\nSaint George is also one of the patron saints of the Mediterranean islands of Malta and Gozo. In a battle between the Maltese and the Moors, Saint George was alleged to have been seen with Saint Paul and Saint Agata, protecting the Maltese. Saint George is the protector of the island of Gozo and the patron of Gozo's largest city, Victoria. The St. George's Basilica in Victoria is dedicated to him.\n\nDevotions to Saint George in Portugal date back to the 12th century. Nuno Álvares Pereira attributed the victory of the Portuguese in the battle of Aljubarrota in 1385 to Saint George. During the reign of John I of Portugal (1357–1433), Saint George became the patron saint of Portugal and the King ordered that the saint's image on the horse be carried in the \"Corpus Christi\" procession. The flag of Saint George (white with red cross) was also carried by the Portuguese troops and hoisted in the fortresses, during the 15th century. \"Portugal and Saint George\" became the battle cry of the Portuguese troops, being still today the battle cry of the Portuguese Army, with simply \"Saint George\" being the battle cry of the Portuguese Navy.\n\nIn Spain, Saint George is the patron of Aragon and Catalonia. These two autonomous communities were in the past two of the most important territories belonging to the Crown of Aragon.\nSaint George () is the patron of Aragon, one of the autonomous communities of Spain. This festivity is celebrated on the 23th of April as \"The Day of Aragon\". Legend says that the Pedro I of Aragon started in 1096 the conquest of Huesca, which was under the rule of the Taifa in Zaragoza, following the desires of his father, Sancho I of Aragon. The fight was hard and difficult, Christian militia trusted totally in God to win the battle. God sent Saint George, who descended from Heaven riding on a horse, carrying with him a maroon cross to the battlefield. After seeing God's signal, militiamen returned to the battle field with more energy than ever. The moors could not believe what was happening, they were defeated, abandoning the battlefield rapidly. After half a year of being trapped, Pedro I finally entered the city.\nTo celebrate this victory, Saint George's cross was used as the insignia of Huesca and Aragon, honouring his name since he was their saviour. Nowadays, this cross is still present on Aragon's shield. \nThe popular story which is told to school children and other places, is that Saint George defeated a dragon, and is celebrated by everybody throughout the community.\nSaint George (\"Sant Jordi\" in Catalan) is also the patron saint of Catalonia. His cross appears in many buildings and local flags, including the one of the Catalan capital, Barcelona. The Catalan tradition usually locates the events of his legend in the town of Montblanc, near Tarragona. \nThe origins of the worship of Saint George go back to the Crown of Aragon, and share the same legend as that of Aragon. By the 15th century Catalan men used to celebrate Saint George's Day by giving roses to women. One of the highest civil distinctions awarded in Catalonia is the Saint George's Cross (\"Creu de Sant Jordi\"). The Sant Jordi Awards have been awarded in Barcelona since 1957.\n\nIt became fashionable in the 15th century, with the full development of classical heraldry, to provide attributed arms to saints and other historical characters from the pre-heraldic ages. The widespread attribution to Saint George of the red cross on a white field in western art - \"Saint George's Cross\" probably first arose in Genoa, which had adopted this image for their flag and George as their patron saint in the 12th century. A \"vexillum beati Georgii\" is mentioned in the Genovese annals for the year 1198, referring to a red flag with a depiction of Saint George and the dragon. An illumination of this flag is shown in the annals for the year 1227. The Genoese flag with the red cross was used alongside this \"George's flag\", from at least 1218, and was known as the \" insignia cruxata comunis Janue\" (\"cross ensign of the commune of Genoa\"). The flag showing the saint himself was the city's principal war flag, but the flag showing the plain cross was used alongside it in the 1240s.\n\nIn 1348 Edward III of England chose Saint George as the patron saint of his Order of the Garter, and also took to using a red-on-white cross in the hoist of his Royal Standard.\n\nThe term \"Saint George's cross\" was at first associated with any plain Greek cross touching the edges of the field (not necessarily red on white). Thomas Fuller in 1647 spoke of \"the plain or St George's cross\" as \"the mother of all the others\" (that is, the other heraldic crosses).\n\nSaint George is most commonly depicted in early icons, mosaics, and frescos wearing armour contemporary with the depiction, executed in gilding and silver colour, intended to identify him as a Roman soldier. Particularly after the Fall of Constantinople and Saint George's association with the crusades, he is often portrayed mounted upon a white horse. Thus, a 2003 Vatican stamp (issued on the anniversary of the Saint's death) depicts an armoured Saint George atop a white horse, killing the dragon. Eastern Orthodox iconography also permits Saint George to ride a black horse, as in a Russian icon in the British museum collection. In the south Lebanese village of Mieh Mieh, the Saint George Church for Melkite Catholics commissioned for its 75th jubilee in 2012 (under the guidance of Mgr Sassine Gregoire), the only icons in the world portraying the whole life of Saint George, as well as the scenes of his torture and martyrdom (drawn in eastern iconographic style).\n\nSaint George may also be portrayed with Saint Demetrius, another early soldier saint. When the two saintly warriors are together and mounted upon horses, they may resemble earthly manifestations of the archangels Michael and Gabriel. Eastern traditions distinguish the two as Saint George rides a white horse and St. Demetrius a red horse (the red pigment may appear black if it has bitumenized). \nSaint George can also be identified by his spearing a dragon, whereas Saint Demetrius may be spearing a human figure, representing Maximian.\n\nDuring the early second millennium, Saint George became a model of chivalry in works of literature, including medieval romances. In the 13th century, Jacobus de Voragine, Archbishop of Genoa, compiled the \"Legenda Sanctorum\", (\"Readings of the Saints\") also known as \"Legenda Aurea\" (the \"Golden Legend\"). Its 177 chapters (182 in some editions) include the story of Saint George, among many others. After the invention of the printing press, the book became a bestseller, second only to the Bible among books published by early English printer William Caxton (\"circa\" 1415-1492).\n\n\n\n\nApril 23\n"}
{"id": "1416966", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1416966", "title": "Sheila Rowbotham", "text": "Sheila Rowbotham\n\nSheila Rowbotham (born 1943) is a British socialist feminist theorist and writer.\n\nRowbotham was born in Leeds (in present-day West Yorkshire), the daughter of a salesman for an engineering company and an office clerk. From an early age, she was deeply interested in history. She has written that traditional political history \"left her cold\", but she credited Olga Wilkinson, one of her teachers, with encouraging her interest in social history by showing that history \"belonged to the present, not to the history textbooks\".\n\nRowbotham attended St Hilda's College at Oxford and then the University of London. She began her working life as a teacher in comprehensive schools and institutes of higher or Adult education. While attending St. Hilda's College, Rowbotham found her syllabus with its heavy focus on political history to be of no interest to her. Through her involvement in the Campaign for Nuclear Disarmament, and various socialist circles including the Labour Party's youth wing, the Young Socialists, Rowbotham was Introduced to Karl Marx's ideas. Already on the left, Rowbotham adopted Marxism. Soon disenchanted with the direction of party politics she immersed herself in a variety of left-wing campaigns, including writing for the radical political newspaper \"Black Dwarf\". In the 1960s, Rowbotham was one of the founders and leaders of the History Workshop movement associated with Ruskin College.\n\nTowards the end of the 1960s she had become involved in the growing Women’s Liberation Movement (also known as Second-wave feminism) and, in 1969, published her influential pamphlet \"Women's Liberation and the New Politics\", which argued that Socialist theory needed to consider the oppression of women in cultural as well as economic terms. She was heavily involved in the conference \"Beyond the Fragments\" (eventually a book), which attempted to draw together democratic socialist and socialist feminist currents in Britain. Between 1983 and 1986, Rowbotham served as the editor of \"Jobs for Change\", the newspaper of the Greater London Council.\n\nSince then, Rowbotham has produced numerous studies and articles expanding upon her theory, which argues that as women's oppression is a result of both economic and cultural forces then a dualist perspective (socialist feminism) that examines both the public and private sphere is required to work towards liberation.\n\nRowbotham was especially influenced by Marxist social history as practised by E. P. Thompson and Dorothy Thompson. Combining a Marxist analysis with feminism, Rowbotham contends that capitalism not only systematically oppresses the working class, but also particularly oppresses women. In her view, women are doubly oppressed as they are forced to sell their labour to survive, but also forced to use their labour to support their husbands and children. Rowbotham is critical of traditional Marxist history for what she sees as the neglect of such issues as family history, the role of housewives in supporting the economy, sexuality, and maternity. In her 1973 book \"Women's Consciousness, Men's World\", Rowbotham maintained that the domestic household work done by women was a part of commodity production as it allowed the production and reproduction of men's labour. However, she claimed that the human family was not just an instrument for disciplining and subjecting women to capitalism, but was a place where potentially humans could take refuge from what Rowbotham sees as the commodification of human relationships under capitalism In Rowbotham's view, raising children, sexuality and need for human relationships means that the family can rarely be reduced down to a service commodity. Likewise, she argues for a Marxist history that accords equal importance to the role of both sexes in the history of revolutions, unions, political parties and protest movements.\n\nIn such books as \"Women, Resistance and Revolution\" (1972) and \"Hidden from History\" (1973), Rowbotham put her ideas into practice by examining the experience of women in radical and revolutionary movements in Cuba, Algeria, Vietnam, China, Russia, France and Britain from the 17th century to the 20th centuries. In her opinion, working within the established order has never brought women any advances, and only through revolutionary socialist movements have women made any social gains. Rowbotham has argued that though male revolutionaries are willing to accept women as partners as long as the revolution lasts, once the revolution is over, women are expected to return to their traditional roles. In \"Hidden from History\", she examined British women's history from the 17th century to 1930 from a Marxist viewpoint. For Rowbotham, the history of British women could best be defined through class oppression, the Industrial Revolution and sexism.\n\nRowbotham has criticised Leninism and Bolshevism, claiming that they \"narrow the struggle of women's emancipation\", and sees \"libertarian socialism\", \"ethical socialism\" and anarchism as providing more vital understanding of women's needs. Much of her historical work has been about these strands of leftism that were opposed by Communism. She has criticised Soviet policies starting with the first five-year plan of 1928–33 for not only expecting women to work full-time, but also to take on the burdens of housework and child raising while at the same time banning abortion and birth control. She has contended that to achieve women's liberation requires a \"revolution within the revolution\" or freedom from the \"colony within the colony\" as sexism was and is just entrenched in radical left-wing men as it is on the right. She maintains that capitalism and sexism are so closely linked that the only way to destroy both is a radical change in the \"cultural conditioning\" of humanity as regards child-rearing, homes, laws, and the work. Rowbotham's books were, and are still well received in radical feminist circles.\n\nIn her 1973 book, \"Women's Consciousness, Men's World\", Rowbotham presented her analysis of contemporary social conditions from a Marxist-feminist perspective. She argues that origins of sexism predate capitalism, and that the institution of marriage closely resembles feudalism. She contends that as in feudalism serfs were obliged to serve their masters, wives are likewise contracted to serve their husbands. In her books, Rowbotham has used a broad variety of sources such as government statistics, pamphlets, novels, interviews, songs, secondary sources, and her own history. A major source of criticism of Rowbotham is her heavy reliance on secondary sources for such books as \"Women, Resistance and Revolution\" and \"Hidden from History\".\n\nIn her 1977 book \"Dutiful Daughters\", co-written with Jean McCrindle, Rowbotham interviewed fourteen women of lower-middle class and working class origin. Though Rowbotham notes that the life stories of women interviewed for \"Dutiful Daughters\" were not intended to be representative of all British women, she argues that these snap-shots of different lives if combined with enough other oral histories can provide an understanding of the experience of ordinary women.\n\nAs part of relating the personal to the political, Rowbotham has examined the sexual and political beliefs of such late 19th- to early 20th-century radicals as the gay rights activist Edward Carpenter, who saw socialism as way for humanity's spiritual rebirth, and the feminist Stella Browne who fought for the legalisation of birth control and argued for the importance of sexual pleasure for women. Rowbotham argued that the political beliefs of Carpenter and Browne were closely tied to their personal lives.\n\nBesides her work as a historian, Rowbotham has been active in left-wing causes. In her book \"Beyond the Fragments\", co-written with Hilary Wainwright and Lynne Segal, Rowbotham called for the various fractions of the British left to unite, and work for a socialist Britain through grassroots activism. She has great faith in activist social movements working from the bottom up to change society, and feels that historians have a duty to contribute to social change by writing books that expose what she sees as the evils of society. As such, she is highly critical of those historians who, influenced by theories of French structuralism and post—structuralism, write in a style unlikely to appeal to the general public.\n\nIn Rowbotham's opinion, an issue of great importance is providing a definition of patriarchy so that women know what they are struggling against. She finds fault with those feminists who deny men a role in the battle against sexism. In her opinion, women and men should stand equally against both capitalism and sexism to achieve radical social reorganisation.\n\nIn 2004, Rowbotham was elected as a fellow of the Royal Society of Arts. She was Professor of Gender and Labour History, Sociology at the University of Manchester, England, until her involuntary retirement in 2008.\n\nRowbotham's involuntary retirement from the University of Manchester caused protest from students. The Facebook group Save Sheila Rowbotham was established to campaign for her continuation as a Lecturer. The same year she published the first ever biography of Edward Carpenter, entitled \"Edward Carpenter: A Life of Liberty and Love\" and did continue to teach within the Sociology department at Manchester. In Autumn 2008, her request to stay on after the age of 65 to a third of her job was refused. However, after protests from students, academics and others internationally the university offered Rowbotham a third of research professorship. She is currently a Simon Professor.\n\nRowbotham's 2009 biography of Edward Carpenter was shortlisted for the James Tait Black Memorial Prize.\n\nRowbotham was the Eccles Centre Writer in Residence at the British Library for 2012.\n\nPapers of Sheila Rowbotham are held at The Women's Library at the Library of the London School of Economics, ref 7SHR\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5186927", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5186927", "title": "The Soup Nazi", "text": "The Soup Nazi\n\n\"The Soup Nazi\" is the 116th episode of the NBC sitcom \"Seinfeld\", which was the sixth episode of the seventh season. It first aired in the United States on November 2, 1995.\n\nThe Soup Nazi is also the nickname of the eponymous character, Yev Kassem, played by Larry Thomas. The term \"Nazi\" is used as an exaggeration of the excessively strict regimentation he constantly demands of his patrons (cf. \"Grammar Nazi\").\n\nJerry, George and Elaine visit a new soup stand Kramer has been praising. Jerry explains that the owner, Yev Kassem, is known as the \"Soup Nazi\" due to his temperament and insistence on a strict manner of behavior while placing an order.\n\nAt the soup stand, George tells Kassem that he didn't receive any bread with his order. Kassem says bread is two dollars extra, even though George rightfully points out that the other customers received free bread, at which Kassem spitefully pushes the price up to three dollars. When George complains again, Kassem decrees \"No soup for you!\" George's order is quickly taken away and his money returned.\n\nEn route to the soup stand with Jerry and George, Elaine notices a guy on the sidewalk with a giant armoire for sale. She decides to forgo the soup in favor of buying the armoire. However, her building superintendent informs her that furniture move-ins are not allowed on Sundays, so she asks Kramer to watch the armoire and promises to get soup from Kassem for him in return.\n\nOn a subsequent visit, George successfully manages to buy soup (bread came with it this time), but Elaine, having ignored Jerry's advice on how to order, quickly draws Kassem's ire and she is banned for a year. During this time, two thieves (Bob and Cedric) intimidate Kramer and steal the armoire.\n\nLater, Jerry and his current girlfriend Sheila (Alexandra Wentworth) visit the soup stand. Kassem is repulsed by their public displays of affection, so Jerry disavows knowing Sheila to stay on Kassem's good side. Jerry talks about the situation with George, who has expressed disgust at Jerry's \"baby talk\". Jerry admits he behaved facetiously with Sheila at the soup stand and vows to redeem himself. George considers this and begins to behave similarly with Susan to express his disgust, but Susan instead takes this as a sign of George expressing their love in public.\n\nSome time later, Kramer, who has befriended Kassem, tells him about the armoire theft. Kassem offers him an antique armoire he has in storage as a replacement. Elaine is elated, and goes to Kassem to thank him. When Kassem learns the armoire was for Elaine, he says he would have rather destroyed it than give it to her. Upset, Elaine returns to her apartment with Jerry, where they discover the armoire is filled with Kassem's soup recipes. Elaine returns to the soup stand and confronts Kassem with the recipes, intent on ruining his business in revenge for mistreating her.\n\nJerry encounters Newman, who is running to get a pot from his apartment. Newman tells him that because of what Elaine said to Kassem, he is closing down his stand and returning to Argentina and giving away whatever soup he has left. Jerry quickly runs home to follow Newman's lead.\n\n\"The Soup Nazi\" was Spike Feresten's first credited \"Seinfeld\" episode as a writer. The idea for the episode arose when Feresten told Jerry Seinfeld and Larry David about New York soup vendor Al Yeganeh, who was nicknamed \"The Soup Nazi.\" Seinfeld and David laughed and said, \"That's a show. Do that as your first show.\" Feresten's inspiration for the armoire subplot was a New York apartment building where he had lived, which forbade moving furniture on certain days. The armoire thieves were written as homosexual because Larry David decided that, \"Only gay guys would steal an armoire.\"\n\nThe first cast table reading for \"The Soup Nazi\" was held on September 28, 1995, and it was filmed before a studio audience on October 3. In the episode, Elaine (Julia Louis-Dreyfus) imitates Al Pacino in \"Scent of a Woman\". This was done at Jerry Seinfeld's suggestion, even though Louis-Dreyfus had never seen the film.\n\nThe Soup Nazi was portrayed by Larry Thomas, who was nominated for a 1996 Emmy for the role. Thomas, who did not realize that the character was based on a real person, received the inspiration for his portrayal from watching \"Lawrence of Arabia\" and studying Omar Sharif's accent.\n\nA stone-faced immigrant chef with a thick Stalin-esque moustache, he is renowned throughout Manhattan for his soups. He demands that all customers in his restaurant meticulously follow his strict queuing, ordering, and payment policies. Failure to adhere to his demands brings the stern admonition (\"No soup for you!\"), whereupon the customer is refunded and denied his or her order. He then yells to the next person in line, \"Next!\" Elaine parodies this when she reveals that she has his recipes. She says to him, \"You're through, Soup Nazi. Pack it up. No more soup for you. NEXT!\"\n\nThe Soup Nazi has a cameo in the \"Seinfeld\" series finale, in which his true name is revealed, but which he refuses to spell when asked by District Attorney Hoyt. He is the penultimate witness in the case against Seinfeld, Elaine, George and Kramer, before Babu Bhatt. He tells Hoyt about how he banned Elaine from his shop, only for her to return and ruin his business, forcing him to move to Argentina. Elaine angers him by smugly claiming, \"His soup wasn't all that good anyway.\" During the recess, he is seen serving soup to Robin, Mr. Lipman, Poppie and Babu, all of whom enjoy it. Poppie appears to ask for salt with his soup, whereupon Kassem takes his soup away. He is present and obviously satisfied when Jerry, Elaine, George and Kramer are found guilty and sent to prison.\n\nThe character was inspired by Ali \"Al\" Yeganeh, a Persian soup vendor who ran Soup Kitchen International in New York City. Yeganeh has stated on numerous occasions that he is very offended by the \"Soup Nazi\" moniker.\n\nAccording to writer Spike Feresten, Jerry Seinfeld and several members of the production team went to Soup Kitchen International for lunch weeks after \"The Soup Nazi\" aired. Upon recognizing Seinfeld, Yeganeh went into a profanity-filled rant about how the show had \"ruined\" his business and demanded an apology. Seinfeld allegedly gave what Feresten describes as \"the most insincere, sarcastic apology ever given\". Obviously having seen the episode, Yeganeh then bellowed, \"No soup for you!\" and ejected them from the restaurant.\n\nAccording to Nora Ephron's DVD commentary, the first pop culture reference to Yeganeh (though not by name) seems to have come years before the \"Seinfeld\" episode, in the 1993 movie \"Sleepless in Seattle\". In the film, a character playing a writer pitches a story for the lifestyle section of the publication to their editor: \"This man sells the greatest soup you have ever eaten, and he is the meanest man in America. I feel very strongly about this, Becky; it's not just about the soup.\"\n\nLike Jackie Chiles, the Soup Nazi character (played by Thomas) has appeared in commercials after the end of the series.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13793677", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13793677", "title": "Unita Blackwell", "text": "Unita Blackwell\n\nUnita Zelma Blackwell (born March 18, 1933) is an American civil rights activist who was the first African American woman, and the tenth African American, to be elected mayor in the U.S. state of Mississippi. Blackwell was a project director for the Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee (SNCC) and helped organize voter drives for African Americans across Mississippi. She is also a founder of the US China Peoples Friendship Association, a group dedicated to promoting cultural exchange between the United States and China. \"Barefootin\", Blackwell's autobiography, published in 2006, charts her activism.\n\nUnita Blackwell was born on March 18, 1933, in Lula, Mississippi, to sharecroppers Virda Mae and Willie Brown. Blackwell's uncle gave her the name U.Z., which she kept until she was in the sixth grade when her teacher told her that she needed \"a real name, not just initials\". Blackwell and her teacher decided on Unita Zelma.\n\nBlackwell and her parents lived in Lula until 1936, when she was three years old; Blackwell's father left the plantation on which he worked, and fled to Memphis, Tennessee, fearing for his life after he confronted his boss about speaking to his wife. Soon afterwards, Blackwell and her mother left the plantation to live with him. Blackwell's family traveled frequently in search of work. On June 20, 1938, Blackwell's parents separated due to religious differences. Blackwell and her mother went to West Helena, Arkansas, to live with Blackwell's great aunt so that she had the opportunity to receive an education. A quality education in Mississippi was not an option for Blackwell because the schools there were centered on the cultivation of crops and the plantation system. While living in West Helena, Blackwell often visited her father in Memphis. During the summer months she would leave West Helena and live with her grandfather and grandmother in Lula, where she helped plant and harvest cotton. Blackwell spent a majority of her early years chopping cotton in Mississippi, Arkansas, and Tennessee and peeling tomatoes in Florida. She was 14 when she finished the eighth grade, the final year of school at Westside, a school in West Helena for black children. Blackwell had to quit school to earn for her family.\n\nBlackwell was 25 when she first met Jeremiah Blackwell, a cook for the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers. A few years later, they traveled to Clarksdale, Mississippi, and were married by a justice of the peace.\n\nIn January 1957, Blackwell became extremely ill and was taken to the hospital in West Helena where she was pronounced dead. She was later found to be alive in her hospital room, and claims to have had a near-death experience. On July 2, 1957, the couple's only son, Jeremiah Blackwell Jr. (Jerry), was born. In 1960, Jeremiah's grandmother, \"Miss Vashti\", died. A few months later, the Blackwells moved into the shotgun house that his grandmother had left to him, in Mayersville, Mississippi, a town of nearly five hundred people. The Blackwell family was eventually able to build a larger brick home, but Blackwell wanted to keep the smaller house inherited from Jeremiah's grandmother. After settling in Mayersville, Blackwell began to get involved in the Civil Rights Movement.\n\nBlackwell first got involved in the Civil Rights Movement in June 1964, when two activists from the Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee came to Mayersville and held meetings in the church she belonged to concerning African Americans' right to vote. The following week she and seven others went to the courthouse to take a voter registration test so that they could vote. While they were outside the courthouse waiting to take the test, a group of white farmers from the area heard what was happening and tried to scare them off. The group stayed there all day, but only two were able to take the test. The racism that the group experienced, Blackwell says, made that day \"the turning point\" of her life. Jeremiah and Unita lost their jobs the next day after their employer found out that they had been part of the group. After losing her job, Blackwell recounts her family's means of survival:\n\nBlackwell attempted to pass the test three times over the next few months. In early fall she took the test successfully and became a registered voter.\n\nWhen the United States Commission on Civil Rights came to Mississippi in January 1965, Blackwell testified in front of them about her experiences with voter discrimination:\n\nAs a result of Blackwell's involvement with voter registration campaigns, she and other activists endured constant harassment.\n\nAfter meeting Fannie Lou Hamer in the summer of 1964 and hearing her experiences in the Civil Rights Movement, Blackwell decided to join the SNCC. As a project director for the SNCC, she organized voter registration drives across Mississippi. Later that year, she became a member on the executive committee of the Mississippi Freedom Democratic Party (MFDP), which provided a party for voters that SNCC had been registering to vote. In late August she and 67 other elected MFDP delegates traveled to the 1964 Democratic National Convention in Atlantic City, New Jersey, intending to get the MFDP seated as \"the only democratically constituted delegation from Mississippi.\" They were eventually offered two at-large seats but refused that compromise; the event, particularly Hamer's nationally televised testimony before the credentialing committee, brought the party and the Mississippi civil rights movement into the public eye.\n\nIn the late 1960s Blackwell worked as a community development specialist with the National Council of Negro Women. In the 1970s, through the National Council of Negro Women, she worked on a development program for low-income housing and encouraged people across the country \"to build their own homes.\" During her time participating in the Civil Rights Movement, she was jailed over 70 times because of her role in civil rights protests and other actions.\n\nThe Blackwells filed a suit, \"Blackwell v. Issaquena County Board of Education\", against the Issaquena County Board of Education on April 1, 1965, after the principal suspended over 300 black children, including Jerry, the Blackwells' son, for wearing pins that depicted a black hand and a white hand clasped with the word \"SNCC\" below them. The suit covered several issues including the students' use of the \"freedom pins\", and asked that the Issaquena County School District desegregate their schools per the Supreme Court ruling in \"Brown v. Board of Education\". The United States District Court for the Southern District of Mississippi decided that the students were being disruptive with their use of the freedom pins, but that the school district had to desegregate their schools to comply with federal law, by the Fall of 1965. The case was taken to the United States Court of Appeals Fifth Circuit in July 1966, where the previous decision by the District Court was upheld. Due to the case resulting in a desegregation plan, Blackwell referred to it as \"one of the very first desegregation cases in Mississippi.\"\n\nBlackwell's son and approximately 50 other children boycotted the school, because of its decision to not let the children wear the SNCC freedom pins. As a result, Blackwell and some other activists in the community decided that it was vital to school those children. She helped open freedom schools in Issaquena County to resolve the issue. The schools became popular and continued to teach classes every summer until 1970, when the local schools finally desegregated.\n\nBlackwell has been on 16 diplomatic missions to China since 1973. As part of her commitment to better relations between the United States and China, she served for six years as president of the US-China Peoples Friendship Association, an association dedicated to promoting cultural exchange between the United States and China. In 1979 Blackwell was appointed to the U.S. National Commission on the International Year of the Child. She was elected mayor of Mayersville, Mississippi in 1976 and held this office until 2001, making her the first female African-American mayor in Mississippi.\n\nAs mayor, she oversaw the construction of several sets of public housing, the first time that federal housing had been built in Issaquena County. Blackwell obtained federal grant money that provided Mayersville with police and fire protection, a public water system, paved streets, housing accommodations for the elderly and disabled, and other infrastructure. She gained national attention by traveling across the country to promote the construction of low-income housing.\n\nBlackwell also served on the Democratic National Committee and as co-chairman of the Mississippi Democratic Party. The Mississippi Freedom Democratic Party sent Blackwell and 67 other delegates to the 1964 Democratic National Convention in New Jersey. Their voices heard at the convention helped contribute to the passage of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and the Voting Rights Act of 1965. In late 1982 Blackwell went to the University of Massachusetts-Amherst and received a master's degree in regional planning. Although Blackwell did not attend high school, the National Rural Fellows Program helped her gain admittance to the University of Massachusetts by awarding her a scholarship and providing her credit based on her activism and life experience.\n\nAs part of her community development efforts, she helped found Mississippi Action for Community Education (MACE), a community-development organization in Greenville, Mississippi. From 1990 to 1992, Blackwell was president of the National Conference of Black Mayors. In 1991, she co-founded the Black Women Mayors' Conference as a corollary to the National Conference of Black Mayors and served as its first president. Blackwell became a voice for rural housing and development, and in 1979 President Jimmy Carter invited her to an energy summit at Camp David. Blackwell was also awarded a $350,000 MacArthur Fellowship genius grant in 1992, for her part in creating the Deer River housing development among other creative solutions to housing and infrastructure problems in her state. Blackwell ran for Congress in 1993, but she was defeated by Bennie Thompson in the primary.\n\nBlackwell, with help from JoAnne Prichard Morris, wrote an autobiography, \"Barefootin': Life Lessons from the Road to Freedom\", that covers her life working as a sharecropper for her parents, being elected mayor of Mayersville causing her rise from \"Poverty to Power\", and her actions in the Civil Rights Movement. It was published in 2006.\n\nIn January 2008 she disappeared from her hotel in Atlanta while attending commemoration ceremonies for Martin Luther King Jr., and was found later at Hartsfield-Jackson International Airport. She was reported as having been in the early stages of dementia in 2008. Currently, Blackwell resides in a nursing home on Mississippi's Gulf Coast.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57390959", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57390959", "title": "Varsha Dongre", "text": "Varsha Dongre\n\nVarsha Dongre was a deputy superintendent at the central jail of the city of Raipur in the state of Chhattisgarh, India. She was suspended from that post following her Facebook post which alleged that the state security personnel indulged in widespread torture of jawans, Maoists, and sexual abuse of minor Adivasi girls in the prisons.\n\nIn 2003, Varsha Dongre appeared for the Chhattisgarh Civil Services examination but was not selected. However, in 2004, Varsha cleared the same examination and was posted as an Assistant Jailer. She filed a petition in 2006 alleging corruption and favouritism by the Chhattisgarh State Public Service Commission in the recruitment for 147 civil services posts in 2003. In August 2016, the Supreme Court found her allegations Valid and ordered for a “fresh” merit list to be prepared. It also directed the commission to pay Rupees five lakh to her as legal expense and Rupees one lakh each for the other two petitioners. The tenacity and Persistence of the Petitioners, especially that of Varsha Dongre was appreciated by the court, for bringing out the acts of corruption and favouritism.\n\nIn a Facebook post dated April 26, 2017, Dongre wrote about the general displacement in adivasi areas and alienation of adivasis from land, forests and rivers, in violation of constitutional safeguards, for corporate interests which is a violation of the 5th Schedule of the Indian Constitution. She also shared her horrifying first-hand experience of witnessing the stripping, electric shock, sexual and other forms of torture of minor adivasis girls in the police stations and jails.\n\nFollowing the Facebook post, Dongre was suspended by the Chhattisgarh state government on May 6, 2017 on the grounds of “indiscipline and violation of service rules”.\nShe was issued a suspension letter signed by the director general of police (Jail administration), Raipur, Chhattisgarh with charges as follows:\n“Miss Varsha Dongre, assistant jail superintendent, Raipur central jail is suspendedwith immediate effect for irresponsibly spreading wrong and misleading facts in media and remaining absent from her duty in an unauthorised manner. She is entitled to a salary as per official suspension norms and will be posted at the Ambikapur central jail during her suspension”.\nThe preliminary investigative officer was given seven days to probe her social media post but the officer, who handed over a 32-page notice to her, gave her only two days to file her reply.Varsha had, however, sent a 376-page reply to him. \nShe was later posted to the Ambikapur Central Jail, Chhattisgarh.\n"}
{"id": "42352882", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42352882", "title": "Walker Calhoun", "text": "Walker Calhoun\n\nWalker Calhoun (born May 13, 1918; died March 28, 2012) was a Cherokee musician, dancer, and teacher. He was known as a medicine man and spiritual leader who worked to preserve the history, religion, and herbal healing methods of his people.\n\nCalhoun was the youngest of 12 children born to Sally Ann Calhoun and Morgan Calhoun. His father died when Calhoun was nine.\n\nAt the age of 12, Calhoun attended a boarding school in Cherokee, North Carolina, where he learned the English language. Before that time, he had rarely heard English since his mother did not speak it. During World War II, he was drafted and served as a combat engineer in Germany.\n\nCalhoun started learning Cherokee songs from an early age. He had learned most of the social, hunt, and sacred songs from his uncle, Will West Long, by the time he was nine years old.\n\nCalhoun founded the Raven Rock Dancers in the 1980s, to help keep traditional Cherokee dances alive within his Big Cove, North Carolina community.\n\n"}
{"id": "878467", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=878467", "title": "Wavy Gravy", "text": "Wavy Gravy\n\nHugh Nanton Romney (born May 15, 1936), better known as Wavy Gravy, is an American entertainer and activist for peace, best known for his hippie appearance, personality and countercultural beliefs. His moniker was given to him by B.B. King at the Texas International Pop Festival in 1969. \"It's worked pretty well through my life,\" he says, \"except with telephone operators – I have to say 'Gravy, first initial W.'\"\n\nRomney's clown persona resulted from his political activism. Frequently arrested at demonstrations, he decided he would be less likely to be arrested if he dressed as a clown, so he became a founding member of the Phurst Church of Phun, a secret society of comics and clowns dedicated to ending the Vietnam War through the use of political theater. \"Clowns are safe,\" he said. Despite this, he also performs traditional clown activities such as jokes, magic tricks and entertaining children.\n\nWavy Gravy founded and co-founded several organizations, including Camp Winnarainbow, the Seva Foundation and the Hog Farm, an activist commune. He was also the official clown of the Grateful Dead and has two radio shows on Sirius Satellite Radio's \"Jam On\" station.\n\nA documentary on Wavy Gravy's life, \"Saint Misbehavin': The Wavy Gravy Movie\", was released in late 2010 by Ripple Effect Films. The film, directed by Michelle Esrick, received positive reviews.\n\nRomney was born in East Greenbush, New York on May 15, 1936. As a child, he took walks around the block with Albert Einstein. He attended William Hall High School in West Hartford, Connecticut. In 1954, Romney volunteered for the military and was honorably discharged after 22 months in the United States Army.\nUnder the G.I. Bill, Romney entered Boston University Theater Department in 1957 and then attended the Neighborhood Playhouse for the Theater in New York City. In 1958, he began reading poetry regularly at The Gaslight Cafe in Greenwich Village. He eventually became the cafe's entertainment director, befriending musicians such as Bob Dylan, Tom Paxton, and Dave Van Ronk.\n\nHis early career was managed by Lenny Bruce who brought Romney to California in 1962 where Romney did a live recording of \"Hugh Romney, Third Stream Humor\" as the opening act for Thelonious Monk at Club Renaissance in Los Angeles.\n\nThe Hog Farm collective was established through a chain of events beginning with Ken Babbs hijacking the Merry Pranksters' bus, \"Further\", to Mexico, which stranded the Merry Pranksters in Los Angeles. First Romney assembled a collective in North Hollywood, visited by the likes of musicians such as Tiny Tim whom he managed, and Ravi Shankar. After moving to Sunland, a suburb north of Los Angeles, he was evicted from his one-bedroom cabin when the landlord found out that a large group of assorted pranksters and musicians were staying there. Two hours later, a neighbor informed Romney that a nearby hog farm, owned by Claude Doty, needed caretakers. Romney accepted the offer and worked the farm in exchange for rent. Local people, musicians, artists, and folks from other communes began staying at the mountain-top farm. In his book \"Something Good for a Change\", Gravy described this early period as a \"bizarre communal experiment\" where the \"people began to outnumber the pigs\".\n\nBoth Romney and his wife, Bonnie Beecher, had jobs in Los Angeles. He worked for Columbia Pictures teaching improvisation skills to actors. Bonnie was a successful television actress, appearing in episodes of \"The Twilight Zone\", \"Gunsmoke\", \"\", and \"The Fugitive\".\n\nBy 1966, the Hog Farm had coalesced into an entertainment organization providing light shows at the Shrine Exposition Hall in Los Angeles for music artists like the Grateful Dead, Cream, and Jimi Hendrix. Beginning in 1967, the collective began traveling across the country in converted school buses purchased with money earned as extras in Otto Preminger's feature film \"Skidoo\" (1968).\n\nThe Hog Farm relocated to Black Oak Ranch in northern California in the early 1990s.\n\nAt the first Woodstock Festival, Gravy and the Hog Farm collective accepted festival executive Stan Goldstein's offer to help with preparations.\n\nGravy called his group the \"Please Force,\" a reference to their non-intrusive tactics at keeping order, e.g., \"Please don't do that, please do this instead\". When asked by the press — who were the first to inform him that he and the rest of the Hog Farm were handling security — what kind of tools he intended to use to maintain order at the event, his response was \"Cream pies and seltzer bottles\" (both being traditional clown props). In Gravy's words: \"They all wrote it down and I thought, 'the power of manipulating the media', ah ha!\" Gravy has been the Master of Ceremonies, and the only person to appear on the bill of all three Woodstock Festivals.\n\nThroughout the festival, Gravy made several announcements from the concert stage. He later wrote in his memoir that \"the reason that I got do to all those stage announcements was because of my relationship with Chip Monk [sic]. Chip built the stage at Woodstock.\"\n\nOn the morning of the 20th Anniversary of the Woodstock Festival, he was interviewed — along with Ken Kesey — live on \"Good Morning America\" at the Bethel concert site, where he discussed his experience as the MC of the event.\n\nGravy's first appearance at an event in the Neo-Pagan community was at the WinterStar Symposium in 1998 with Paul Krassner. He appeared there again in 2000 with Phyllis Curott, where he joined Rev. Ivan Stang in a joint ritual of the Church of the SubGenius and his Church of the Cosmic Giggle.\n\nAt the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame and Museum's psychedelic tribute to the 1960s \"I Want To Take You Higher\", Gravy's sleeping bag and tie-dyed false teeth were displayed. He and Paul Krassner appeared there on the last day of the exhibit on February 28, 1998.\n\nGravy began Seva Foundation along with spiritual leader Ram Dass and public health expert Dr. Larry Brilliant. Based in Berkeley, California, Seva is an international health organization working to build sustainable health projects in many of the globe's most under-served communities. Gravy is famous for throwing all-star benefit concerts regularly featuring members of the Grateful Dead, Bonnie Raitt, Jackson Browne, David Crosby, Graham Nash, Ani DiFranco, Ben Harper, Elvis Costello and many other compassionate musicians. He serves on Seva's board of directors.\n\nGravy is also the co-founder, with his wife, of the circus and performing arts camp Camp Winnarainbow, in Laytonville, California, near the Hog Farm. Until 2003, Ben & Jerry's produced an ice cream named \"Wavy Gravy\" (caramel-cashew-Brazil nut base with a chocolate hazelnut fudge swirl and roasted almonds) which helped drive a scholarship fund for underprivileged kids to attend Camp Winnarainbow.\n\nGravy has also been recognized for his work as a collage artist. He held a solo exhibition throughout April 1999, at the Firehouse Gallery under the direction of its owner Eric Gibbons. He is known to create larger works in collage for celebrities in the Bay Area of California. He began exploring collage in the early '60s even before becoming Wavy Gravy, his first works created while living above the Gaslight in Greenwich Village after being inspired by a Max Ernst collage he saw at the Bitter End when opening for Peter, Paul and Mary.\n\nWith hundreds of men being detained (women were held separately) in the \"Hotel Diablo\" – actually the old gymnasium at Cuesta College in San Luis Obispo, California – after arrests during the September 1981 Abalone Alliance-organized anti-nuclear protest, trespass/occupation and civil disobedience action at Diablo Canyon Power Plant, Gravy organized and acted as MC for a variety show that he called the \"Tornado of Talent\" which featured, among other performers (and after the guards had allowed an acoustic guitar to be brought into the \"jail\"), Jackson Browne. Wavy arrived at the holding facility dressed in a pair of bright green coveralls. After settling into his \"bunk\" (a thin mattress on the gym floor) he removed the coveralls to reveal a Santa Claus suit.\n\nGravy established the store Nobody's Business across the road from the Hog Farm, reminiscent of his \"Nobody for President\" campaign — as in: \"Who's in Washington right now working to make the world a safer place? Nobody!\"; \"Nobody's Perfect\"; \"Nobody Keeps All Promises\"; \"Nobody Should Have That Much Power\"; etc. The joke had previously been used in the 1932 short film \"Betty Boop for President\".\n\nThe \"Nobody for President\" campaign held a rally across from the White House on November 4, 1980 that included Yippies and a few anarchists to promote the option of \"none of the above\" choice on the ballot. After criticizing Jimmy Carter, Ronald Reagan and John B. Anderson, the committee offered the \"perfect\" candidate: Nobody. \"Nobody makes apple pie better than Mom. And Nobody will love you when you're down and out,\" Gravy told a crowd of 50 onlookers at the rally.\n\nEarly on, he shared an apartment with singer-songwriter Tom Paxton in Greenwich Village for a time, and Romney was one of Bob Dylan's earliest friends in New York City. One of Bob Dylan's girlfriends from the University of Minnesota, Bonnie Beecher, now Jahanara Romney, married Gravy on May 22 1967.\nThey have a son, Jordan Romney (born in 1971 as Howdy Do-Good Gravy Tomahawk Truckstop Romney)\n\nRomney has stated that he has no familial relationship with the Romney family of American politics, which includes George W. and Mitt Romney.\n\nTwo weeks after Woodstock, at the 1969 Texas International Pop Festival Romney was lying onstage, exhausted after spending hours trying to get festival-goers to put their clothes back on, when it was announced that B.B. King was going to play. Romney began to get up; a hand appeared on his shoulder. It was B.B. King, who asked, \"Are you wavy gravy?\" to which Romney replied \"Yes.\" \"It's OK; I can work around you,\" said B.B. King, and he and Johnny Winter proceeded to jam for hours after that. Romney said he considered this a mystical event, and assumed Wavy Gravy as his legal name.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46920568", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46920568", "title": "William Disch", "text": "William Disch\n\nWilliam Disch was a member of the Wisconsin State Assembly.\n\nDisch was born on January 12, 1840 in Glarus, Switzerland. He later moved to Milwaukee, Wisconsin. During the American Civil War, he served with the 24th Wisconsin Volunteer Infantry Regiment of the Union Army. Disch died in 1912 and was buried at Forest Home Cemetery.\n\nDisch was elected to the Assembly in 1906 and 1908. Previously, he had been a security guard at the Wisconsin State Capitol. He was a Republican.\n"}
{"id": "31803709", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31803709", "title": "William Holme Twentyman", "text": "William Holme Twentyman\n\nWilliam Holme Twentyman (31 October 1802 – 7 May 1884) was a silversmith in Cape Town, who amassed a considerable fortune on Mauritius and retired at the age of 39. Whilst on Mauritius he created a sealed case for a pocket watch to be worn under water. After trials soldered lugs were incorporated and a \"strong canvas\" band was tied to the wrist for ease of use. Twentyman also painted the dial orange as to be more clearly seen underwater. This creation was known as the Twentyman \"orange gorilla\" due to its large size.\n\nWilliam Holme Twentyman was born in Liverpool, the son of John Middleton Twentyman (a cooper and trader) and Phoebe Holme. In 1818 he went to the Cape with his elder brother Lawrence Holme Twentyman (a silversmith and watchmaker), after they inherited money from a great uncle. The brothers arrived in Cape Town on 12 June 1818 on the \"Ann\". William was apprenticed to Lawrence as a silversmith and watchmaker, and later became a partner in Twentyman & Co, running his own shop next door to that of his brother.\n\nIn 1828 he moved to Mauritius, arriving on the \"Winscales\" on 19 January 1829, where he ran a business as a watch seller and jeweler in Port Louis. On 2 June 1832 at the Anglican Church of Port Louis he married Celia Pinch, daughter of John Pinch the elder an architect in Bath, Somerset. During June/July 1832 he was caught up in the slave rebellion on Mauritius with his shop coming under siege. By 1841 William had amassed a considerable fortune and, with his family, had returned to England, residing at 21 Avenue Road, Regent's Park, London.\n\nWilliam Twentyman was elected Special Constable in 1848; was admitted to the Freedom of the Spectacle Makers' Company by redemption on 3 June 1861; admitted to the Freedom of the City of London by redemption through the Spectacle Makers' Company on 6 June 1861; was Sheriff of the City of London from 1861 to 1862; and Justice of the Peace (JP). He died on Wednesday 7 May 1884, at his residence, Ravensworth, St. John's Wood Park, London, and was buried in Highgate Cemetery. William Twentyman left a personal estate of £28173-15-6d.\n"}
{"id": "23602717", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23602717", "title": "Yehudit Simhonit", "text": "Yehudit Simhonit\n\nYehudit Simhonit (sometimes Simhoni; ; 24 January 1902 - 5 December 1991) was a Zionist activist and politician.\n\nSimhonit was born in Nahar-Tov, an agricultural settlement in the Kherson Oblast of the Russian Empire (today in Ukraine), and attended an agricultural high school. In 1917 she joined the Zionist Student Youth Federation.\n\nIn 1921 she and her husband Mordechai Simhoni made aliyah to Mandatory Palestine, and settled in Nahalal, the newly established first moshav. In 1927 she became a member of the Union of Women Workers. She moved to kibbutz Tel Yosef in 1931, and moved again to Geva in 1943. A member of Mapai, she represented the party in the fourth Assembly of Representatives.\n\nIn 1949 she was elected to the first Knesset on the Mapai list. However, she resigned from the Knesset on 5 February 1951 and was replaced by Herzl Berger.\n\nShe later worked as a member of the Histadrut's co-ordinating committee and chief cultural and welfare officer of the IDF's Women's Corps. Between 1960 and 1965 she served as head of the Histadrut's International Relations Department.\n\nIn 1965 she left Mapai and was a founding member of David Ben-Gurion's new Rafi party, and was amongst its leadership until the party was dissolved in 1968. She died in 1991.\n\nHer son, Major General Asaf Simhoni, was killed in a plane crash at the end of the Sinai War. Her grandson, Avner Simhoni, was killed in 1968 when a mine exploded in the Gulf of Suez during the military operations in the War of Attrition.\n"}
