{"id": "44538187", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44538187", "title": "Abortion in East Timor", "text": "Abortion in East Timor\n\nAbortion in East Timor is only legal if the abortion will save the woman's life, an exception made by Parliament in 2009. Women's groups and NGOs have been advocating for abortion laws to include instances of rape, incest, and child endangerment.\n\nIn East Timor, any abortion approved to preserve the woman's health requires consent from three physicians. All other abortions are criminal offenses, and the person who performs the abortion as well as the pregnant woman face up to three years of imprisonment.\n\nAbortion law in East Timor is based on the abortion law of Indonesia which ruled East Timor between 1976 and 1999 and which has been updated since independence in 2002.\n"}
{"id": "4130915", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4130915", "title": "Alex Lowe", "text": "Alex Lowe\n\nStewart Alexander \"Alex\" Lowe (24 December 1958 – 5 October 1999) was an American mountaineer. He has been described as inspiring \"...a whole generation of climbers and explorers with his uncontainable enthusiasm, legendary training routines, and significant ascents of rock climbs, ice climbs, and mountains all over the world...\". He died in an avalanche in Tibet. The Alex Lowe Charitable Foundation honors his legacy. \n\nLowe was widely admired by his peers for excelling in every aspect of mountaineering, from rock- and ice-climbing to ski descents. Dave Hahn once remarked, \"There's Alex Lowe up here, and then there's the rest of us down here. The guy's just really that much better than everybody else.\" and Conrad Anker said, \"We're all at this one level, and then there's Alex.\" Lowe himself said \"The best climber in the world is the one having the most fun!\"\n\nLowe improved his upper body strength as a result of an exercise regimen that included 400 chin-ups and hundreds of dips. In an article for \"Active Lifestyle\", Gordon Wiltsie, a photographer who climbed with Lowe in Antarctica and Canada's Baffin Island, said, \"he'd hog the pull-up bar to knock out 400 pull-ups in sets of 40 and 45. He disliked downtime and knew where to do pull-ups in many airports. Even on expeditions, when rest is hard to come by and much appreciated, Lowe was an oddball. He'd cop pull-ups on a ship's rigging en route to Antarctica, or do dips in a snow pit he dug at base camp.\" In that article, Wiltsie said, \"At Baffin Island, after hauling supplies to a high point on a climb, we went back to camp beat and tired, but Alex proceeded to do pull-up after pull-up. He even brought an exercise device on climbs.\" He was known jokingly as \"Lungs With Legs\" for his incredible strength and stamina.\n\nIn June 1995, Lowe helped the National Park Service rescue several Spanish climbers on Denali in Alaska. On 9 June, the group had been trapped for four days at . Before a rescue team could assemble, one of the climbers fell to his death from the mountain's Upper West Rib. The surviving climbers were all suffering from hypothermia. Lowe and two fellow climbers were lifted by military helicopter to a plateau above the Spaniards, scaled down a 400-vertical foot, 50-degree slope of ice and rock, to reach them and determined that one needed immediate evacuation. Amid snowy conditions, he at first dragged, then carried him on his back up the steep slope at high altitude.\n\nIn September 1999, Lowe, Conrad Anker and David Bridges (a two-time US national paragliding champion) traveled to the Himalayan giant Shishapangma, the fourteenth highest peak in the world, as part of the 1999 American Shishapangma Ski Expedition. \n\nPlans called for Lowe and Anker to be part of the team that would ski down, to become the first Americans to ski down from the summit of an 8,000-meter peak; while Bridges was part of a three-man film team that was to shoot an NBC documentary of the expedition for The North Face. Lowe commented:\n\"It's been a passionate goal of mine to ski off an 8,000 meter peak. I guess there's a lot of people sort of looking to do this and try to ski off Everest. But for me, it's got to be an aesthetic and quality run. And Shishapangma has the best ski line of any of the 8,000 meter peaks. It's just an absolutely straight shot right down the Southwest Face. That's going to be a good one.\" \n\nOn 5 October, they split into two teams as they searched for a route up the mountain. Lowe's group (Lowe, Anker and Bridges) were crossing a flat glacier when a large serac broke loose above and tumbled downhill. The -wide avalanche swept over the three men. Anker was thrown by the windblast, and suffered a lacerated head, two broken ribs, and dislocated shoulder, but emerged from the snow, and led a 20 hours rescue attempt in the large debris field measuring up to deep. Neither body was found at the time, but almost seventeen (17) years later on 27 April 2016, climbers Ueli Steck and David Göttler, came across the remains of the two climbers emerging from the glacier.\n\nLowe was survived by his wife Jennifer and three sons, Max, Sam, and Isaac. The Alex Lowe Charitable Foundation was established in his honor to provide direction and financial support to humanitarian programs in mountain regions around the world. Their work includes the Khumbu Climbing Center for indigenous people of Nepal \n\nJennifer Lowe-Anker published a memoir, \"Forget Me Not\" in 2008, that recounts her life shared with Lowe, his death and the life she continued with Anker. \"Forget Me Not\" won the National Outdoor Book award for literature in 2008.\n\nIn 1995, Lowe received the American Alpine Club's Underhill Award for outstanding mountaineering achievement, the highest honor in U.S. mountaineering. He climbed for nearly 10 years with The North Face professional climbing team, which included in the later years mountaineer Jon Krakauer, author of the bestseller \"Into Thin Air\". After Lowe's death, \"Outside Magazine\" posthumously declared him \"the world's best climber,\" adding, \"No matter how jaw-dropping his routes, Lowe's real genius grew out of the way he combined physical accomplishments with an indomitable spirit.\"\n\nFormerly known by its elevation as Peak 10,031, Alex Lowe Peak, south of Bozeman, Montana in the Gallatin National Forest was officially named after him in September 2005. In spring of 1997, Lowe had climbed the northern couloir with friend Hans Saari; and the two had made the first ski-descent from the summit, down what they named \"Hellmouth Couloir.\"\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52284456", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52284456", "title": "Alliance for Heart Failure", "text": "Alliance for Heart Failure\n\nThe Alliance for Heart Failure is a coalition of charities, patient groups, professional bodies, public sector organisations and corporate members working together to raise the profile of heart failure within the UK Government, the National Health Service, and media. It was formed in October 2015.\n\nThe Alliance for Heart Failure’s mission is to achieve better outcomes for people with heart failure by ensuring timely diagnosis and access to the right care and support.\n\nCurrent members of the Alliance for Heart Failure are:\n\n\nThe co-chairs are Joel Rose (Cardiomyopathy UK) and Professor Iain Squire (British Society for Heart Failure). They have a 12-month tenure. Day-to-day decisions are made by a steering committee.\n\nThe Alliance for Heart Failure is supported and funded by Bayer, Medtronic Limited, Novartis Pharmaceuticals UK Ltd, and Roche Diagnostics Ltd. Funders are not responsible for any of the materials produced by the Alliance for Heart Failure, which are created independently by the Alliance’s secretariat.\n\nIn 2016, the All Party Parliamentary Group on Heart Disease, chaired by Stuart Andrew MP, held an inquiry into living with heart failure. Written and oral evidence was provided by patients, healthcare professionals, and commissioners. The Inquiry’s report, Focus on Heart Failure, was published in September 2016 and made ten recommendations for improving heart failure services.\n\nNine members of the Alliance for Heart Failure were co-opted onto an advisory panel for the inquiry. The panel had ten members in total.\n\nThe National Heart Failure Audit (April 2015-March 2016), published on August 10, 2017, reported that mortality among patients admitted to hospital had fallen to 8.9% compared to 9.6% reported in the previous audit. It also reported that the number of patients seen by specialist heart failure nurses remained high at 80%, and that 90% of patients were recorded as having an up to date echocardiogram. The report also recorded an increase in prescriptions for disease modifying medications.\n\nThe Alliance for Heart Failure welcomed the findings but called for more to be done to address the vast regional variation in patient outcomes.\n\n"}
{"id": "55466232", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55466232", "title": "Anna (feral child)", "text": "Anna (feral child)\n\nAnna is the pseudonym given to the six-year-old feral child Alice Marie Harris, who was discovered in the year 1938. Anna was raised in isolation in Pennsylvania because she was an illegitimate child. Anna was kept strapped down in the attic of her home and was malnourished and unable to speak or move. She died from hemorrhagic jaundice at the age of ten before she was able to make a full recovery. Anna is often compared to the feral children cases of Isabelle and Genie.\n\nAnna was born March 6, 1932, In Perryopolis, Pennsylvania about seventeen miles outside of Uniontown. She was the second illegitimate child of her mother, Martha Harris, who was 27 at the time of Anna's discovery. She lived with Anna's grandfather, David Harris, a widowed farmer who strongly disapproved of her mother's indiscretions. After Anna was found, Martha married a man by the name of George I Eisenhauer. Martha died in Philadelphia in 1959. David Harris, died at the age of 72 in 1948. He was the son of the late Jacob and Catherine Cochran Harris. His children included Martha, Catherine Elwell (daughters) and Jacob and Harold (sons).\n\nAnna was born in a nurse's private home and was brought to the family farm, but shortly after was sent to live at her mother's friend's house. A local minister considered adopting Anna, but decided against it when he discovered she had vaginitis. At the age of three weeks, Anna was sent to live in a children's home. There, she was said to be \"terribly galled and otherwise in very bad shape\". After eight weeks in the home, Anna's mother was called to come collect her. In her place, she sent a man and his wife to see Anna in hopes of adopting her, but the agency refused to give permission because they disapproved of the couple. Later, the mother came herself and gave Anna to the couple. A short time after, a social worker found Anna at this home and attempted to convince her mother and grandfather to take her back. At this time, Anna was over four months old. She was taken to another children's home where a medical examination revealed she had vaginitis, umbilical hernia, and a skin rash. Anna was sent to a private foster home after three weeks in the children's home.\n\nDue to the fact that the mother and the grandfather could not pay for the child's care, she was sent back to live on the family farm at the age of five and a half months. In an attempt to avoid her father's anger, Martha kept her in an attic-like room on the second floor. Her mother was busy working on the farm during the day and occasionally went out at night. Anna was given only enough care to keep her alive and received no instruction or positive attention. She was fed virtually nothing else except for cow's milk and was strapped down to a chair or a cot for the majority of her early life. An article in the \"New York Times\" stated that Anna had been kept in the attic room, which was without windows or ventilation, for two years, and then kept for three years more in the storage room in the second floor. However, a later report in the \"American Journal of Sociology\" by Kingsley Davis considers it “doubtful that the child's hands at the time of discovery were tied. It is more likely that she was confined to her crib in the first period of life and at all times kept locked in her room to keep her from falling down the steep stairs leading immediately from the door and to keep the grandfather from seeing her. It is doubtful if the child was ever kept in the attic, as the report also stated”.\n\nWhen interviewed by officers, David Harris was quoted saying: \"I made her keep it up there, care for it and feed it as a sort of punishment. I forgave her first sin, but not the second\". The article does not explain what the first sin was, though it is possible that it was the first illegitimate child she had. The same \"New York Times\" article quotes Martha: \"My father wouldn't let me bring it downstairs. He said he didn't want to see it around. I had to run up and down, up and down, to feed and take care of it. I had to feed it all the time. It was awfully hard\". The name of the father was withheld, but Martha said the girl's father was a well-to-do farmer.\n\nAnna was discovered around February 6, 1938 by E. M. Smith of the Western Pennsylvania Humane Society about seventeen miles from Uniontown, Pennsylvania. The humane officer found the child after a report had been filed from the Woman's Club of Star Junction. Other reports had also been spread that a child was kept in the house, yet she was never seen by visitors. When Anna was found, the Humane officer reported that: \"The child was dressed in a dirty shirt and napkin. Her hands, arms and legs were just bones, with skin drawn over them, so frail she couldn't use them. She never grew normally, and the chair on which she lay, half reclining and half sitting was so small the child had to double her legs partly under her\". The chair that she was found in was tilted backwards to lean on a coal bucket with her arms tied above her head, leaving her unable to talk or move. Charges of negligence to a minor were brought up against Harris and Martha. The grandfather was freed after Judge J. Russell Carr dismissed the case for lack of evidence. Dr John Kerr of Connellsville testified at the trial. He declared: \"it was about the most deplorable condition I have ever seen in all those years\". He testified she had a severe lack of muscle, abnormal bones, and that she couldn't see or hear. He believed that, had she been properly nourished, she would have been a \"normal\" child. Martha, her mother, claimed that she tried feeding her child meat and other solid foods but that they made her gag. She denied the statements that the child had been kept imprisoned in an attic.\n\nWhen Anna was first rescued, Drs. J. F. Kerr and D. F. Newell assessed that she was undernourished, that the bones in her legs were softened and twisted out of normal shape and that she was suffering from rickets. She was also believed to be deaf as she didn't respond to others. It was later discovered as she recovered that the deafness was organic rather than functional. She additionally could not walk, talk, and showed little signs of intelligence. Once she was determined a ward of the county and placed in the Fayette County Home, Anna began improving rapidly. She had gained seven pounds by the end of the summer in 1938 but continued to struggle with simple speech and walking. She was enrolled in the Margaret Duer Judge school for \"sub-normal\" children. By the age of 9, she began developing signs of speech and was approaching social norms. She could respond to simple commands, feed herself, and remember some people, but she still could not speak, and had the approximate intelligence of a 1 year old child. \n\nA report filed in November 6, 1939 describes her state as follows: \"Anna walks about aimlessly, makes periodic rhythmic motions of her hands, and, at intervals, makes guttural and sucking noises. She regards her hands as if she had seen them for the first time. It was impossible to hold her attention for more than a few seconds at a time-not because of distraction due to external stimuli but because of her inability to concentrate. She ignored the task in hand to gaze vacantly about the room. Speech is entirely lacking. Numerous unsuccessful attempts have been made with her in the hope of developing initial sounds. I do not believe that this failure is due to negativism or deafness but that she is not sufficiently developed to accept speech at this time ... The prognosis is not favorable\". Her teachers described her as having a pleasant disposition, but unfortunately, Anna died soon after.\n\nAfter a life of just over ten years, Anna died on August 6, 1942. Her death was caused by hemorrhagic jaundice, a form of jaundice in which injury and anemia are present. There is no cited evidence that her condition was linked to her isolation. The Fayette County commissioners paid for the funeral and burial of Anna in Delaware Cemetery, near the Judge School in Milford where she had last lived.\n\nAnna's case is commonly compared to the study of another feral child, Isabelle, because of their similar upbringings. Anna and Isabelle were both raised in isolation for a similar amount of time, but Isabelle was able to recover much faster and achieve greater mental development. Isabelle was born one month after Anna and was discovered nine months after Anna. Similarly to Anna, Isabelle was forced into isolation because she was an illegitimate child. During her six and a half years of isolation, Isabelle lived with her deaf and mute mother. She had no concept of relationships, no verbal skills, and was malnourished. Following Isabelle's discovery, she was hospitalized and her apathetic behavior was closely monitored. She was then transferred to a ward with children where she became socialized and learned to imitate the other children. She also began language training with a skilled team of doctors and within eighteen months had gained the understanding and use of an estimated 1500–2500 words, enabling her to produce complex sentences and correctly use inflection morphology, pronouns, and prepositions by the age of eight. \n\nAs soon as a year and a half after her discovery, Isabelle was energetic and fully mobile. By fourteen, she was excelling in public school. The recovery of Isabelle is clearly different than Anna. In both cases they had very low intellectual abilities when they were discovered and introduced into the world. Their differences arise, however, when you consider that two years after Isabelle's discovery she was deemed to be recovered and a fully functioning girl, but prior to Anna's death she only ever reached the level of socialization of a two or three year old child. The varying recovery between Anna and Isabelle is suspected to be the result of Anna having less initial mental capacity prior to isolation or to her receiving a lesser standard of care and verbal training during her recovery than Isabelle's team of skilled doctors and physiologists offered her. Some also account Isabelle's recovery to the fact that she was in isolation with her mother. However, the exact reason is hard to pinpoint because Anna died at the age of ten before this could be investigated any further.\n\nAnother case Anna is commonly compared to is feral child Genie. While growing up, Genie's father became convinced that Genie was severely mentally retarded, causing him to withhold from her care and attention. At approximately the time she reached the age of 20 months, this belief of Genie's father cause him to keep her as socially isolated as possible and until she reached the age of 13 years and 7 months he kept her locked alone in a room. During this time, Genie was strapped to a child's toilet or bound in her crib. This caused Genie's arms and legs to remain completely immobilized, forbade anyone from interacting with her, provided her with almost no stimulation of any kind, and left her severely malnourished and unable to mobilize. The extent of her isolation prevented her from being exposed to any significant amount of speech or human interaction, and as a result she did not acquire language during her childhood, similar to Anna. Her abuse came to the attention of Los Angeles child welfare authorities on November 4, 1970 and this caused a media frenzy. \n\nFollowing her discovery, Genie was followed by scientists, physiologists, and linguists, but she has only managed to obtain nonverbal communication skills. Genie has lived much longer than Anna and is believed to be 60 or 61 years old (as of 2017), but she has yet to acquire a functional first language. Unlike Anna, psychologists and linguists continue to frequently discuss Genie to this day, and there is considerable academic and media interest in her development and the research team's methods, since Genie's case has demonstrated the necessity of early language stimulation in the left hemisphere of the brain to start. The discoveries made through Genie's following and scientific testing relate to Anna because it explains that Anna's lack of language stimulation during her isolated childhood are the basis for why she was never able to acquire the verbal communication skills expected of her age up until the time of her early death.\n\nThe difficulty in treating feral children cases like Anna is that the line between care and therapy is blurred. As seen with Genie's case, putting scientific advancement over her personal care is a pitfall that all scientists were guilty of to some degree. Families that had no background in abused child psychology were not equipped to care for her, and scientists that were equipped also were invested in researching how to better treat future children. Additionally Paul Lutus argues that psychology is not a real science because the outcome is not determined by the treatment. And all successes become research somewhere down the line. This is especially true in any feral child case as there is no ethical way to perform social isolation experiments on children to the extent of someone like Anna. Psychological treatment relies on a code that ensures professionalism and quality care necessary to gain the trust of the child. The goal is to support the patient so that they can pursue development and autonomy while the psychologist resists potentially controlling or coercing compliance. Treating feral children is understandably difficult as they have little to no means of communication, and are ineffective at communicating wants and desires in a meaningful way. Ethics comes into dispute when the line between teaching and parenting becomes thin.\n"}
{"id": "38773071", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38773071", "title": "Antoine Karam (politician)", "text": "Antoine Karam (politician)\n\nAntoine or Tony Karam (born 1956) is a Maronite Lebanese politician who served as the minister of environment.\n\nKaram was born in Hadath in 1956. He holds a medicine degree, which he received from the University of St. Joseph in 1985.\n\nKaram is a member of the Lebanese Forces, led by Samir Geagea, since its inception. He is a member of party's executive committee.\n\nHe was appointed minister of environment to the cabinet led by then prime minister Fouad Siniora on 11 July 2008. He was part of the 14 March alliance in the cabinet. His tenure ended in November 2009, and he was replaced by Mohammad Naji Rahhal in the post.\n\nKaram is married to Danielle Mattar and has two children.\n"}
{"id": "3484537", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3484537", "title": "Atmit", "text": "Atmit\n\nAtmit is a nutritional supplement used to fight famine in impoverished countries. The creamy, nutritious food is indigenous to Ethiopia and is now used to feed the severely malnourished and weakened adults and children. The word \"atmit\" originated in Ethiopia and refers to a kind of \"thin, nourishing porridge.\" Traditionally, Atmit can contain over 20 different cereals and recipes can vary widely.\n\nAtmit is made from rolled oats, powdered milk, powdered sugar, vitamins, and minerals. It is easily digestible, high in protein and calorie content. Since severely malnourished people cannot eat solid food, atmit is an ideal way to get them essential nutrients.\n\nMarta Gabre-Tsadick, the first woman Senator from Ethiopia and the co-founder of Project Mercy, Inc., a Christian relief organization, adapted the recipe for production in the United States for shipment to Ethiopia and other African countries. During 1985 and 1986, Project Mercy sent 930 tons of atmit to Ethiopia, where World Vision relief workers used it to prepare millions of meals which they distributed among people weakened from the famine.\n\nCharity and relief organizations have created various formulas for this porridge. The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints formula of atmit, which was sent in 2005 to Niger was made of the following:\n\n\nThat formula was further developed in 2009 to contain 51% oat flour, 23% nonfat dried milk, and 25% sugar, with the remaining percent composed of a re-developed set of micro nutrients designed to improve vitamin shelf life and decrease vitamin degradation. That same year, The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints sent 1.4 million pounds of the new Atmit formula to Ethiopia.\n\nRecently, atmit has been distributed to Uganda, Sudan, South Africa, Haiti, Gaza, Bangladesh, Indonesia, Sri Lanka, Pakistan and Niger.\n"}
{"id": "48444430", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48444430", "title": "Auckland District Health Board", "text": "Auckland District Health Board\n\nAuckland District Health Board (ADHB) is a district health board that provides healthcare in the Auckland Region in New Zealand, mainly on the Auckland isthmus.\n\nThe DHB controls and runs many facilities within the Auckland Region including, but not limited to:\n\n\nElections for the board are held every three years and elects seven members.\n"}
{"id": "5821523", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5821523", "title": "Australian Hearing", "text": "Australian Hearing\n\nAustralian Hearing is a statutory authority constituted under the \"Australian Hearing Services Act 1991\", reporting to the Minister for Human Services, and is within the Department of Human Services portfolio. Australian Hearing is the largest Australian government-funded hearing aid dispensing company providing hearing care and technologies. One of their areas of interest is hearing testing and rehabilitation of children under the age of 26.\n\nIts research division, the National Acoustic Laboratories, takes part in collaborative research for the Cooperative Research Centre for Cochlear Implant and Hearing Aid Innovation (CRC HEAR). Its research can be broadly divided into the areas of hearing assessment, hearing loss prevention, hearing rehabilitation devices, and hearing rehabilitation procedures.\n\nAustralian Hearing is the current incarnation of the Acoustic Research Laboratory that was set up in 1942. Its initial purpose was the investigation of noise on behalf of the Australian Military during World War II. After the war it helped those children whose hearing was affected by earlier rubella outbreaks.\n\nThe Commonwealth Department of Health (now the Department of Health and Ageing) took over the Laboratory and was renamed the Commonwealth Acoustic Laboratories, with the aim of providing hearing services for children and veterans. It was in 1973 renamed the National Acoustic Laboratories.\n\nThe \"Australian Hearing Services Act 1991\" established it as Australian Hearing Services, a Commonwealth Government statutory authority. The name National Acoustics Laboratories was retained for its research division. When the Department of Human Services was formed in 2004, the agency now known as Australian Hearing was moved into its portfolio.\n\nTo be eligible for hearing services from Australian Hearing, one must be an Australian resident or permanent resident, and meet one of the following categories:\n\nIn February 2014, the National Commission of Audit recommended in its Phase One Report that the Commonwealth sell its interest in Australian Hearing.\n\n"}
{"id": "47166292", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47166292", "title": "California Senate Bill 277", "text": "California Senate Bill 277\n\nCalifornia Senate Bill 277 (SB277) was a California bill that removed personal belief exemptions to vaccination requirements for entry to private or public elementary or secondary schools in California, as well as day care centers. It was passed in the California State Senate in June 2015 and signed into law by Governor Jerry Brown on June 30, 2015.\n\nThe bill, co-authored by California state Senators Richard Pan, and Ben Allen, was prompted by the 2014 Disneyland measles outbreak and low levels of vaccination in pockets of California, with some schools having vaccination rates below 60%. SB277 was supported by the California Medical Association. Opposition to the bill, albeit from \"a tiny minority\", has been characterized as \"possibly the most strident outpouring of political dissent in recent memory\". Opponents of the bill started a petition to have Senator Pan removed by recall election. On social media Pan was compared to a nazi and death threats were reported against both him and Ben Allen.\n\nOn April 28, 2015 University of California, Hastings College of the Law professor Dorit Rubinstein Reiss gave her testimony on SB 277 before the California Senate Judiciary Committee. In her testimony, she stated that the legislature had leeway to require school immunization, citing the U.S Supreme Court cases Zucht v. King (1922) and Prince v. Massachusetts (1944). She also rejected the need of non-medical exemptions and said the bill did not violate the right to education.\n\n"}
{"id": "706198", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=706198", "title": "Chief Medical Officer (United Kingdom)", "text": "Chief Medical Officer (United Kingdom)\n\nThe Chief Medical Officer (CMO) is the most senior advisor on health matters in a government. There are four CMOs in the United Kingdom who are appointed to advise their respective governments: Her Majesty's Government, the Northern Ireland Executive, the Scottish Government and the Welsh Government. Each CMO is assisted by one or more Deputy Chief Medical Officers, and are complimented by a Chief Nursing Officer.\n\nIn England, the CMO is a member of the board of the National Health Service (NHS), a civil servant in the Department of Health, and head of the medical civil service. The Republic of Ireland has a similar officer.\n\nThe Chief Medical Officer is a qualified medical doctor whose medical speciality traditionally was public health medicine, and whose work focused on the health of communities rather than health of individuals. More recently the appointees have been clinicians without training or experience in public health medicine. In the UK, the CMO is one of six chief professional officers who advise the government in their respective health and social care disciplines.\n\nThe equivalent US term is Surgeon General. The term Surgeon General is also a used in the British Armed Forces for the head of medical services. In non-government organisations, such as policing, chief medical officer may refer to a senior medical post in the organisation. When appointed outside government the chief medical officer will often decide on physical and mental fitness to serve issues, and the role may not be in public health.\n\nThe historic post was created in Victorian times to help to prevent cholera epidemics. In 1969 the post of Chief Medical Officer for Wales was created, and prior to this both England and Wales were covered by the post of Chief Medical Officer of England and Wales.\n\nThrough various reorganisations, the CMOs for Scotland has been the chief medical officer in the Local Government Board for Scotland, Scottish Board of Health, Department of Health for Scotland, the Scottish Home and Health Department, the Scottish Executive Health Department and now the Scottish Government:\n\n\nThe Welsh post was created in 1969, prior to this there was one post for both England and Wales, the Chief Medical Officer for England and Wales.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44219043", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44219043", "title": "Clair Mills Callan", "text": "Clair Mills Callan\n\nClair Mills Callan (born 1940) is an anesthesiologist and vice-president of Science, Quality, and Public Health standards for the American Medical Association (AMA).\n\nCallan was educated at Holy Child Killiney Secondary School, Co.Dublin, Ireland. Early in her career, Callan was a staff anesthesiologist at St. Francis Hospital in Hartford, Connecticut, from 1972 to 1975. She later worked for the state of Connecticut, as medical director of the Department of Income Maintenance, where she administered medical aspects of Connecticut's Medicaid program, from 1978 to 1984. She was director of medical affairs for Abbott Laboratories from 1985 to 1992, where she did critical research on new anesthesia products. The team she led completed the global development of a new drug within two years, and their work included innovative research on kidney function that led to the conclusion that the kidney is a metabolic as well as an excretory organ. Before joining the staff of the AMA in 1999, Callan was vice president of Abbott's Hospital Products Division.\n\nAs vice-president for Science, Quality, and Public Health Standards at the American Medical Association, Callan is responsible for AMA programs in Medicine and Public Health, Science and Community Health Advocacy, Alcohol Policy Advocacy, Tobacco Policy Advocacy, Science, Research and Technology, Clinical Quality Improvement, and Disaster Preparedness.\n\nCallan holds an honorary fellowship from the Faculty of Anesthesia, Royal College of Surgeons, Ireland, and is a Fellow of the Institute of Medicine, Chicago. She was also awarded the Certified Physician Executive (C.P.E.) board certification from the American College of Physician Executives. She is married to fellow physician John P. Callan, M.D., and the couple has four children.\n\n\"This article is adopted from a publication of the National Library of Medicine, a division of the National Institutes of Health, an agency of the United States government.\"\n"}
{"id": "21106348", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21106348", "title": "Committee on Science, Engineering, and Public Policy", "text": "Committee on Science, Engineering, and Public Policy\n\nThe Committee on Science, Engineering, and Public Policy (COSEPUP) is a committee of the United States National Academy of Sciences (NAS), the National Academy of Engineering (NAE), and the National Academy of Medicine (NAM). It is chartered by the Academies to address \"the concerns and requests of the President's Science Advisor, the Director of the National Science Foundation, the Chair of the National Science Board, and heads of other federal research and development departments and agencies, and the Chairs of key science and technology-related committees of the Congress.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "50400960", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50400960", "title": "Disability in Peru", "text": "Disability in Peru\n\nPeruvians with disabilities constitute 5.2% of the population. 52.1% of disabled people are women. 40.5% of disabled Peruvians have a primary or better education. 76.8% are not economically active they have an unemployment rate of 12.1%. Of those Peruvians with disabilities who do work, 58.3% are self-employed.\n\nIn 2012, the largest group of people with disabilities in Peru had were those with physical issues, such as an inability to walk or use their arms or legs and who made up 59.2% of all disabled Peruvians. The second largest group (50.9%) experienced some type of visual impairment. Around 88% of those with disabilities in Peru do not receive treatment or therapy for their disabilities. In addition, more than 81% of disabled people in Peru did not know there were organizations that were able to help them with their disability. As reported by \"The Guardian\" in 2016, Peru has one of the highest employment gaps for people with disabilities in the world.\n\nIn areas such as the Sacred Valley, 89% of children with disabilities don't go to school.\n\nArticles 7, 16 and 23 of the Constitution of Peru address disability. Article 7 states that individuals have the right to health protections and if they are unable to care for themselves, has rights for care, rehabilitation, security and respect. Articles 16 and 23 address the rights of the disabled to have access to education and employment respectively.\n\nThe general law that covers people with disabilities is Law No. 27050, created in 1998. This law established the National Council for the Integration of Persons with Disability (CONADIS). It also established hiring quotas for companies employing more than 50 people. CONADIS also helps disabled people find jobs by promoting them through their job board network. The Ministry of Labor and Promotion of Employment (MINTRA) helps young people find jobs. Despite quotas, some employers get around the law by counting people with glasses or frequent headaches as \"disabled.\"\n\nLaw no. 29392, signed into law on September 9, 2009 by President Alan Garcia Perez, expands on Law No. 27050. The authority for applying the law is the Ministry of Women and Vulnerable Populations and it provides ways to sanction individuals and corporations who violate the law.\n\nIn 2004, Peru's Ministry of Health published \"Guidelines for Action in Mental Health,\" moving towards better support for those with mental disabilities.\n\nBetween 2001 and October 2011, a policy of the National Registry of Identification and Civil Status (RENIEC) prevented people with mental and intellectual disabilities from obtaining national identity cards or if they were issued a card, it listed their disability on the ID. Because of this, around 23,000 disabled people were unable to vote, cash checks, distribute property to their children and faced other types of social discrimination.\n\nArticle 21 of the Constitution of Peru is concerned with who may be included in Social Security in coordination with CONADIS for the disabled.\n\nA new program to help low income women and people with disabilities in Peru obtain technology-related jobs was initiated in 2017. The program created an online platform where employers could identify job candidates.\n\nMental Disability Rights International in 2004 found that human rights abuses were taking place in mental institutions in Peru.\n\nIn areas of Peru where people are living in poverty, individuals with intellectual disabilities have less access to education.\n\nPeru made its Paralympic Games début at the 1972 Summer Paralympics in Heidelberg, with a single representative to compete in swimming. It sent two competitors to the 1976 Games, then was absent for two decades, before returning in 1996 with a three-man delegation. It has participated in every subsequent edition of the Summer Paralympics, but has never taken part in the Winter Paralympics.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41577631", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41577631", "title": "Exchange Information Disclosure Act", "text": "Exchange Information Disclosure Act\n\nThe Exchange Information Disclosure Act () is a bill that would require the United States Department of Health and Human Services to submit weekly reports to Congress about how many people are using HealthCare.gov and signing up for health insurance. These reports would be due every Monday until March 31, 2015 and would be available to the public. The bill would \"require weekly updates on the number of unique website visitors, new accounts, and new enrollments in a qualified health plan, as well as the level of coverage,\" separating the data by state. The bill would also require reports on efforts to fix the broken portions of the website.\n\nThe bill was introduced on October 29, 2013 in the United States House of Representatives during the 113th United States Congress. The House was scheduled to vote on it on January 10, 2014. On January 16th, 2014, the bill was passed. 226 Republicans and 33 Democrats have voted yes to the bill. \n\nThe Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (PPACA), commonly called the Affordable Care Act (ACA) or \"Obamacare\", is a United States federal statute signed into law by President Barack Obama on March 23, 2010. Together with the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act, it represents the most significant regulatory overhaul of the U.S. healthcare system since the passage of Medicare and Medicaid in 1965.\n\nThe ACA was enacted with the goals of increasing the quality and affordability of health insurance, lowering the uninsured rate by expanding public and private insurance coverage, and reducing the costs of healthcare for individuals and the government. It introduced a number of mechanisms—including mandates, subsidies, and insurance exchanges—meant to increase coverage and affordability.\n\nHealthcare.gov is a healthcare exchange website created by and operated under the United States federal government as per the provisions of the PPACA, designed to serve the residents of the thirty-six U.S. states that opted not to create their own state exchanges. Americans had until December 23, 2013 to sign up for coverage that would begin in January 2014. The official enrollment period deadline is the last day of March.\n\nThe PPACA detailed the exchange system as a way to comparison shop between different possible health insurance options for an individual within his or her state, with a visual format somewhat analogous to websites such as Amazon.com and Etsy. The contract allocated to CGI Group for building the federal website (Healthcare.gov) was valued at $292 million through to 2013, with estimates that the overall cost for building the website had reached over $500 million by October 2013.\n\nThe Congressional Budget Office (CBO) forecast that about seven million Americans would use the website to obtain coverage during the first year after its launch. The October 1, 2013 roll-out of Healthcare.gov went through as planned, despite the concurrent partial government shutdown. The website has been marred by serious technological problems since its launch, making it difficult for Americans to sign up for health insurance. On October 27, only about seven hundred thousand people filed applications, with even fewer actually enrolled in plans.\n\nOn October 20, President Barack Obama made a thirty-minute Rose Garden appearance discussing the varied issues. \"There's no sugar coating: the website has been too slow, people have been getting stuck during the application process and I think it's fair to say that nobody's more frustrated by that than I am,\" he remarked. Promising a \"tech surge\" of the best people that his administration could assemble, he added, \"there's no excuse for the problems, and these problems are getting fixed.\"\n\nIssues with Healthcare.gov have persisted weeks past the launch, with the website unable to reach its related data services hub on October 28. Said glitches have particularly beleaguered Health and Human Services head Kathleen Sebelius. As of November 30, over 137,000 people have obtained insurance coverage from Healthcare.gov, a figure representing the strong improvement of the user experience since October yet still vastly trailing past U.S. government estimates.\n\nThe Exchange Information Disclosure Act would require the Obama Administration to provide more information related to these problems to Congress and the American public.\n\n\"This summary is based largely on the summary provided by the Congressional Research Service, a public domain source.\"\n\nThe Exchange Information Disclosure Act would amend the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act to expand reporting requirements related to health care exchanges. The bill would require the Secretary of Health and Human Services (HHS) to publish reports weekly through March 31, 2015, on: \n\nThe Exchange Information Disclosure Act was introduced into the United States House of Representatives on October 29, 2013 by Rep. Lee Terry (R, NE-2). It was referred to the United States House Committee on Energy and Commerce and the United States House Committee on Ways and Means. On January 3, 2014, House Majority Leader Eric Cantor announced that the bill would be on the schedule for the week of January 6, 2014.\n\nSupporters of the bill argue that it would help Congress and the American people judge and follow the progress of the ACA.\n\nRepublicans argue that the bill is necessary because the Obama Administration has refused to provide information about usage of healthcare.gov and enrollment in new health insurance plans. Heritage Action notes that the bill is \"designed to increase transparency in the operation of American Health Benefits Exchanges\" in response to security and transparency failures, but believes \"the only acceptable solution is to repeal the law entirely and replace it was a market-based, patient-centered alternative.\"\n\nSome Republicans have also asked for additional information related to Obamacare that is not required in this bill. These Republicans are asking for information about the number of people who have actually paid their first monthly bill and to what degree the enrollees are young, healthy people, versus those who will likely need medical care.\n\nOne provision of the bill requires that a list of healthcare navigators be provided, with contact and affiliation information. This is a response to criticism that some navigators have been encouraging people to lie on their enrollment forms to get better deals.\n\nSenator Lamar Alexander, who introduced similar legislation in the Senate, argued in favor of the bill. Alexander noted that \"with WikiLeaks and Edward Snowden spilling our beans every day, what's happening on the Obamacare exchanges is the only secret left in Washington... the National Security Administration should learn some lessons from Secretary Sebelius.\"\n\n\"Washington Post\" columnist Greg Sargent wrote that the vote on the Exchange Information Disclosure Act would \"be partly about reassuring the base that \"GOP leaders are still taking the fight to Obamacare, dammit!!!\"\" Sargent argued that the bill was \"a political attack coming from a party that wants to see the law fail,\" even if some people would be interested in the actual data.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7445076", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7445076", "title": "Extra-pair copulation", "text": "Extra-pair copulation\n\nExtra-pair copulation (EPC) is a promiscuous mating behaviour in monogamous species. Monogamy occurs when an individual has only one sexual partner at any one time, forming a long term bond and combining efforts to raise offspring together; extra-pair copulation occurs when one of these individuals mates outside of this pairing. Across the animal kingdom, extra-pair copulation is common in monogamous species, and only a very few pair-bonded species are thought to be exclusively sexually monogamous. EPC in the animal kingdom has mostly been studied in birds and mammals. Possible benefits of EPC can be investigated within non-human species, such as birds. In males, a number of theories are proposed to explain extra-pair copulations. One such hypothesis is that males maximise their reproductive success by copulating with as many females as possible outside of a pair bond relationship because their parental investment is lower, meaning they can copulate and leave the female with minimum risk to themselves. Females, on the other hand, have to invest a lot more in their offspring; extra-pair copulations produce a greater cost because they put the resources that their mate can offer at risk by copulating outside the relationship. Despite this, females do seek out extra pair copulations, and, because of the risk, there is more debate about the evolutionary benefits for females.\n\nExtra-pair copulation in men has been explained as being partly due to parental investment. Research has suggested that copulation poses more of a risk to future investment for women, as they have the potential of becoming pregnant, and consequently require a large parental investment of the gestation period, and then further rearing of the offspring. Contrastingly, men are able to copulate and then abandon their mate as there is no risk of pregnancy for themselves, meaning there is a smaller risk of parental investment in any possible offspring. It has been suggested that, due to having such low parental investment, it is evolutionarily adaptive for men to copulate with as many women as possible, as it will allow them to spread their genes with little risk of future investment. This may therefore lead to more extra-pair copulation in men, as they are able to copulate with other women without the consequences of having to rear new offspring.\n\nVarious factors can increase the probability of EPC in males. Firstly, males with low levels of fluctuating asymmetry are more likely to have EPCs. This may be due to the fact that signals of low fluctuating asymmetry suggest that the males have \"good genes\", making females more likely to copulate with them as it will enhance the genes of their offspring, even if they do not expect long term commitment from the male. Psychosocial stress early on in life, including behaviours such as physical violence and substance abuse, can predict EPC in later life. This has been explained as being due to Life History Theory, which argues that individuals who are reared in environments, where resources are scarce and life expectancy is low, are more likely to engage in reproductive behaviours earlier in life in order to ensure the proliferation of their genes. Individuals reared in these environments are said to have short life histories. With respect to Life History Theory, these finding have been explained by suggesting that males who experienced psychosocial stress early in life have short life histories, making them more likely to try and reproduce as much as possible by engaging in EPC to avoid gene extinction.\n\nHowever, men may also choose not to have EPCs for multiple reasons. One reason may be that long-term monogamous relationships can help form environments that will aid the successful rearing of offspring, as the male is present to help raise them, leading to an increased probability of the male's genes surviving to the next generation. A second reason that EPCs may be avoided by a male is that it can be costly to them; their EPC may be discovered, leading to the dissolution of the long-term relationship with their partner and, in some cases, lead to their partner assaulting or even killing them. Men may also avoid EPCs to minimize the risk of putting themselves at increased opportunity for STD transmission which can be common in EPCs. The partners in the EPC may be promiscuous as well leading to a higher statistical chance and probability of contracting venereal diseases; this would counter the lower incidence of STD transmission among exclusively monogamous sexually active couples. Spousal homicide is more likely to be committed by males rather than females, which may make the ramifications of EPC more relevant to women.\n\nFrom an evolutionary perspective, females have to invest a lot more in their offspring than males due to prolonged pregnancy and child rearing, and a child has a better chance of survival and development with two parents involved in child-rearing. Therefore, extra-pair copulations have a greater cost for women because they put the support and resources that their mate can offer at risk by copulating outside the relationship. There is also the increased risk of sexually transmitted infections which is suggested as a possible evolutionary reason for the transition from polygamous to monogamous relationships in humans. Despite this, females do seek out extra-pair copulation, with some research finding that women's levels of infidelity are equal to that of men's, although this evidence is mixed. Due to the increased risk, there is more confusion about the evolutionary benefits of extra-pair copulation for females.\n\nThe most common theory is that women mate outside of the monogamous relationship to acquire better genetic material for their offspring. A female in a relationship with a male with 'poorer genetic quality' may try to enhance the fitness of her children and therefore the continuation of her own genes by engaging in extra-pair copulation with better quality males. A second theory is that a woman will engage in extra-pair copulation to seek additional resources for herself or her offspring. This is based on observations from the animal world in which females may copulate outside of their pair-bond relationship with neighbours to gain extra protection, food or nesting materials. Finally, evolutionary psychologists have theorized that extra-pair copulation is an indirect result of selection on males. The alleles in males that promote extra-pair copulation as an evolutionary strategy to increase reproductive success is shared between sexes leading to this behaviour being expressed in females.\n\nThere are also social factors involved in extra-pair copulation. Both males and females have been found to engage in more sexual behaviour outside of the monogamous relationship when experiencing sexual dissatisfaction in the relationship, although how this links to evolutionary theory is unclear. Surveys have found cultural differences in attitudes towards infidelity, though it is relatively consistent that female attitudes are less favorable toward infidelity than male attitudes.\n\nAs well as humans, EPC has been found in many other socially monogamous species. \nWhen EPC occurs in animals which show sustained female-male social bonding, this can lead to extra-pair paternity (EPP), in which the female reproduces with an extra-pair male, and hence produces EPO (extra-pair offspring).\n\nDue to the obvious reproductive success benefits for males, it used to be thought that males exclusively controlled EPCs. However, it is now known that females also seek EPC in some situations.\n\nExtra-pair copulation is common in birds. For example, zebra finches, although socially monogamous, are not sexually monogamous and hence do engage in extra-pair courtship and attempts at copulation. In a laboratory study, female zebra finches copulated over several days, many times with one male and only once with another male. Results found that significantly more eggs were fertilised by the extra-pair male than expected proportionally from just one copulation verses many copulations with the other male. EPO proportion varies between different species of birds. For example, in eastern bluebirds, studies have shown that around 35% of offspring is due to EPC.\nIn socially polygynous birds, EPP is only half as common as in socially monogamous birds. Some ethologists consider this finding to be support for the 'female choice' hypothesis of mating systems in birds.\n\nAdditionally, EPC has been shown in monogamous mammals, such as the white-handed gibbon. A study of one group found 88% in-pair copulation and 12% extra-pair copulation. However, there is much variability in rates of EPP in mammals. One study found that this disparity in EPP is better predicted by the differing social structures of different mammals, rather than differing types of pair bonding. For example, EPP was lower in species who live in pairs compared to those who live in solitary or family structures.\n\nSome argue that EPC is one way in which sexual selection is operating for genetic benefits which is why the extra-pair males involved in EPC seem to be a non-random subset. There is some evidence for this in birds. For example, in swallows, males with longer tails are involved in EPC more than those with shorter tails. Also female swallows with a shorter-tailed within-pair mates are more likely to conduct EPC than those whose mates have longer tails. A similar pattern has been found for black-capped chickadees, in which all extra-pair males had higher rank than the within-pair males. But some argue that genetic benefits for offspring is not the reason females participate in EPC. A meta-analysis of genetic benefits of EPC in 55 bird species found that extra-pair offspring were not more likely to survive than within-pair offspring. Also, extra-pair males did not show significantly better ‘good-genes’ traits than within-pair males, except for being slightly larger overall.\n\nAnother potential explanation for the occurrence of EPC in organisms where females solicit EPC is that the alleles controlling such behaviour are intersexually pleiotropic. Under the hypothesis of intersexual antagonistic pleiotropy, the benefit males get from EPC cancels out the negative effects of EPC for females. Thus, the allele that controls EPC in both organisms would persist, even if it would be detrimental to the fitness of females. Similarly, according to the hypothesis of intrasexual antagonistic pleiotropy, the allele that controls EPC in females also controls a behaviour that is under positive selection, such as receptiveness towards within-pair copulation.\n"}
{"id": "29804658", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29804658", "title": "Five Times Five", "text": "Five Times Five\n\nFive Times Five is a 1939 American short documentary film directed by Frank P. Donovan. It was nominated for an Academy Award at the 12th Academy Awards in 1940 for Best Live Action Short Film, Two-Reel. The Dionne quintuplets have a private five-years-old birthday party in their garden.\n\n"}
{"id": "71026", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=71026", "title": "Gutka", "text": "Gutka\n\nGutka or guṭkha is a chewing tobacco preparation made of crushed areca nut, tobacco, catechu, paraffin wax, slaked lime and sweet or savory flavorings, commonly used in some parts of India. It contains carcinogens, is considered responsible for oral cancer and other severe negative health effects and hence is subjected in India to the same restrictions and warnings as cigarettes.\n\nGutka is manufactured in India and exported to a few other countries including United States, often marketed under the guise of a \"safer\" product than cigarettes and tobacco. A mild stimulant, it is sold across South Asia in small, individual-sized packets that cost between 2 and 10 rupees per packet. It is widely consumed in India, Pakistan, Bangladesh, and the Madhesh region of Nepal. Gutka is consumed by placing a pinch of it between the gum and cheek and gently sucking and chewing, similar to chewing tobacco. As with paan and other smokeless tobacco products, there are preventive efforts to encourage users to quit and young people not to start.\n\nGutka is a powdery, granular, light brownish to white substance. Within moments of chewing mixing with saliva, the gutkha begins to dissolve and turn deep red in color. It may impart upon its user a \"buzz\" somewhat more intense than that of tobacco chewing, snuffing and smoking. \n\nHighly addictive and a known carcinogen, gutkha is the subject of much controversy in India. Many states have sought to curb its immense popularity by taxing sales of gutkha heavily or by banning it outright.\n\nExcessive gutkha use can eventually lead to loss of appetite, promote unusual sleep patterns, and loss of concentration along with other tobacco-related problems. A gutkha user can easily be identified by prominently stained teeth ranging from yellowish-orange to reddish-black. The stains are difficult to remove by normal brushing and usually need the attention of a dentist . After gutkha is consumed, it is generally spat onto a wall or at the ground, causing a red stain that is quite resistant to the elements. Some building owners have taken to combating this by painting murals of gods on their walls, with the idea that gutkha chewers would not spit on a god.\n\nGutka is a combination of arecanut, slaked lime, paraffin and catechu along with tobacco. Promoted as a mouth freshener, this mixture is a combination of 4,000 chemicals of which at least 40 are carcinogenic compounds, say doctors.\n\nPeople get addicted to it as gutka is reported to have stimulant and relaxation effects. While most consumers believe that the blend is not harmful, doctors, especially oncologists, say consumption of gutka is more harmful than any other form of tobacco.\n\nThis is because when a person chews gutka, the mixture directly enters the system through the oral cavity. In the case of smoking, 20% of the harmful chemicals reach the lungs and 80% is exhaled.\n\nWhile narrowing of the blood vessels can cause gangrene, stoppage of blood supply in extreme cases can cause stroke. In women, consumption of gutka during pregnancy can result in low birth weight babies, he says.\n\n“Overall, people can develop cancers of mouth, throat, lung and oesophagus; heart disease and related ailments. While most youngsters get easily addicted to it, women are in the habit of chewing tobacco or even inhaling snuff, which is even more harmful,”\n\nGutkha use can begin at a very young age. Due to its often flavourful taste, easy availability and low price, it is popular with poor children, who can exhibit precancerous lesions at a very early age as a result. Symptoms of cancer often appear by high school or college age. Social custom does not permit children in India to smoke cigarettes, so gutkha use, being all but invisible to others, is the method of choice. Gutkha is also used by many as an alternative to cigarettes and is claimed to curb the need to smoke, but eventually becomes another habit tough to quit. Gutkha also causes swallowing problems during night time sleeping leading to dry throat and restless sleep. This may eventually lead to throat cancer in users..\nIn 2008, about 5 million children under 15 were addicted to gutkha. A survey in Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh found precursors of mouth cancers in 16% of the children.\n\nMany states of India have banned the sale, manufacture, distribution and storage of gutka and all its variants. As of May 2013, gutka is banned in 24 states and 3 union territories. The federal Food Safety and Regulation (Prohibition) Act 2011 allows harmful products such as gutka to be banned for a year. This can be renewed annually, resulting in a permanent ban. The ban is enforced by the state public health ministry, the state Food and Drug Administration, and the local police. Enforcement of the law is generally lax and many shops still sell gutka, although it may not be displayed. Enforcemnent is stricter in some regions like Mumbai and Delhi, but illegal sale of gutka still occurs.\n\nOffenders can be fined or receive prison sentences. The law has provisions of imposing fines up to 25,000 Indian rupees on the sale of products that are injurious to health.\n\nResearch firm Edelweiss estimates the gutka ban will cause the industry 15-20 billion rupees in losses.\n\nLike alcohol and tobacco products, there is a ban on advertisement of gutka. Often tobacco companies advertise gutka as pan masala in order to skirt the ban on advertising tobacco products. Surrogate advertisements often use pan masala ads to promote gutka products with similar name and packaging.\n\nAccording to the Food Safety and Standards (Prohibition and Restriction on Sales) Regulations, 2011 of the Food Safety and Standards Authority of India, misleading advertisement of such products invites a fine of 1,000,000 rupees.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57046404", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57046404", "title": "Hadji Baba Afshar", "text": "Hadji Baba Afshar\n\nHadji Baba Afshar (افشار، حاجی بابا in Persian) was one of the first medical practitioners in Iran who studied modern medicine in Europe.\n\nHe was sent in 1226/1811 together with a number of others to study medicine and chemistry in England at the expense of the crown prince and under the supervision of Sir Harford Jones-Brydges.\nAlthough he stayed for eight years in England, he did not receive a degree. Upon return he was the court physician under Moḥammad Shah Qaǰar Mohammad Shah Qajar.\n\nHajji Baba may have been the inspiration for the best-selling novels, The Adventures of Hajji Baba of Ispahan (1824) and The Adventures of Hajji Baba of Ispahan in England (1828), written by James Justinian Morier. According to Stuart, Ḥāǰǰī Bābā was extremely annoyed at Morier’s use of his name for the title of his novel The Adventures of Hajji Baba of Ispahan.\n"}
{"id": "11907900", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11907900", "title": "Hydrodynamic theory (dentistry)", "text": "Hydrodynamic theory (dentistry)\n\nThe Hydrodynamic or Fluid Movement theory is one of the main theories in dentistry to explain the mechanism by which a tooth perceives the sensation of pain. It is currently the most widely accepted theory used to explain tooth sensitivity.\n\nThere are three main theories of dentine hypersensitivity:\nThe hydrodynamic theory, first proposed by M. Brännström in 1966, suggested that dentine hypersensitivity is due to the abrupt movement of fluid within the dentinal tubules in response to cold and heat (thermal), osmotic (e.g. eating sugary foods), mechanical (e.g. chewing) and evaporative stimuli (e.g. air blasts).\n\nCold, osmotic and evaporative stimuli cause an outward flow of fluid and mechanical and hot stimuli cause an inward flow.\n\nThe movement of dentinal fluid leads to mechanical deformation and activation of the sensory nerve terminals of low-threshold Aδ fibres located in close contact with odontoblasts\n"}
{"id": "67886", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=67886", "title": "Iliotibial band syndrome", "text": "Iliotibial band syndrome\n\nIliotibial band syndrome (ITBS) is a common injury to the knee, generally associated with running, cycling, hiking or weight-lifting (especially squats).\n\nITBS symptoms range from a stinging sensation just above the knee and outside of the knee (lateral side of the knee) joint, to swelling or thickening of the tissue in the area where the band moves over the femur. The stinging sensation just above the knee joint is felt on the outside of the knee or along the entire length of the iliotibial band. Pain may not occur immediately during activity, but may intensify over time. Pain is most commonly felt when the foot strikes the ground, and pain might persist after activity. Pain may also be present above and below the knee, where the ITB attaches to the tibia.\n\nITBS can result from one or more of the following: training habits, anatomical abnormalities, or muscular imbalances:\n\nTraining habits\n\nAbnormalities in leg/feet anatomy\nMuscle imbalance\n\nIliotibial band syndrome is one of the leading causes of lateral knee pain in runners. The iliotibial band is a thick band of fascia on the lateral aspect of the knee, extending from the outside of the pelvis, over the hip and knee, and inserting just below the knee. The band is crucial to stabilizing the knee during running, as it moves from behind the femur to the front of the femur during activity. The continual rubbing of the band over the lateral femoral epicondyle, combined with the repeated flexion and extension of the knee during running may cause the area to become inflamed.\n\nDiagnosis of iliotibial band syndrome is based on history and physical exam findings, including tenderness at the lateral femoral epicondyle, where the iliotibial band passes over the bone.\n\nWhile ITBS pain can be acute, the iliotibial band can be rested, iced, compressed and elevated (RICE) to reduce pain and inflammation, followed by stretching. Physical therapy, and many of its modalities, can offer relief if symptoms arise.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6063743", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6063743", "title": "Impath", "text": "Impath\n\nImpath Inc., a New York based corporation, was a provider of cancer related laboratory services. Impath filed for bankruptcy protection in September 2003.\n\nBeginning in the late 1990s and until 2003, its business withered away, but its executives continued to talk up their stock and the profitability of their impending anti-cancer breakthroughs.\n\nIn May 2004, Genzyme acquired several of Impath's laboratories and cancer-testing technologies.\n\nIn September 2005 the United States Securities and Exchange Commission took action against former CEO Anuradha Saad and her colleagues, alleging fraudulent accounting.\nThe same month Saad pleaded guilty to two counts of soliciting proxies containing false statements.\nIt was also alleged that Saad improperly charged $120,000 in personal expenses to Impath.\nOn Tuesday, May 30, 2006, the former president and chief operating officer of Impath, Richard P. Adelson, received a sentence from district court judge Jed S. Rakoff.\n"}
{"id": "31554216", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31554216", "title": "Inter-American Convention on the Elimination of all Forms of Discrimination Against Persons with Disabilities", "text": "Inter-American Convention on the Elimination of all Forms of Discrimination Against Persons with Disabilities\n\nThe Inter-American Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination Against Persons with Disabilities is a regional human rights instrument, adopted in 1999 within the Organization of American States. It calls on states to facilitate the full integration of persons with disabilities into society through legislation, social initiatives and educational programmes. It entered into force on 14 September 2001. \n\nAs of 2013, 19 states have ratified the convention.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39696368", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39696368", "title": "International Pepper Community", "text": "International Pepper Community\n\nThe International Pepper Community (IPC) is an intergovernmental organisation of states that produce agricultural pepper.\n\nIn Bangkok on 16 April 1971, the Agreement establishing the International Pepper Community was concluded. After this treaty came into force on 29 March 1972, the IPC was created. IPC headquarters are located in Jakarta, Indonesia.\n\nSix states have ratified the IPC Agreement and are thus full members of the IPC: Brazil (since 1981), India (1972), Indonesia (1972), Malaysia (1972), Sri Lanka (2002), and Vietnam (2005). Papua New Guinea has not ratified the Agreement but has been admitted to the IPC as an associate member.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21808304", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21808304", "title": "International Pharmaceutical Students' Federation", "text": "International Pharmaceutical Students' Federation\n\nThe International Pharmaceutical Students' Federation (IPSF) is a non-governmental, non-political and non-religious organisation that represents pharmaceutical students, pharmacy students and recent graduates from all over the world. It was founded in 1949 and it is the oldest faculty-based student organisation. \"IPSF\" represents over 320,000 individuals in more than 80 countries with more than 100 different representative pharmacy student organisations.\n\nEvery pharmacy and pharmaceutical student, and recent graduates up to four years after receiving their degree may become a member of the Federation individually, or via a representative organisation of pharmacy students.\n\nThe Federation is engaged in the following areas: pharmacy education, public health, professional development, advocacy, cultural awareness, and partnerships developing pharmacists worldwide.\n\nThe IPSF Team is entirely student-run and is composed of more than 150 volunteers;\n\nIPSF holds official relations with the World Health Organization (WHO) and with the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO). IPSF works in close collaboration with the International Pharmaceutical Federation (FIP). The IPSF Secretariat is supported and hosted by FIP in The Hague, The Netherlands.\n\nThe idea of forming IPSF came in 1948 from then-Secretary of the British Pharmaceutical Students' Association, Stephen B. Challen during the 6th Annual Congress of BPSA. The Constitution of the Federation was agreed and signed on August 25, 1949 in London during the Inaugural Conference, marking the organization's founding date. On the same day, Sidney J. Relph was elected as the first President of IPSF along with 4 other Executive Committee members. The 8 founding countries were Austria, Australia, Denmark (also voting for Finland, Norway and Sweden), Iceland, Ireland, Netherlands, Switzerland and United Kingdom.\n\n\nIPSF offers several types of memberships. For organisations, these are:\nEvery organisation wishing to join IPSF must first become a Member in Association. If you are interested in becoming a member, you should contact the Chairperson of Internal Relations ask for the Membership Form.\n\nYou should then send the completed form along with the organisation's constitution in an official IPSF language (English, Arabic, French and Spanish) to Chairperson of Internal Relations.\n\nAfterwards, the IPSF Treasurer shall send you an invoice for the annual membership fee, which has to be paid at least 12 hours before the annual General Assembly commences (around the late July).\n\nThen, at the General Assembly, your delegation, either in person or via Skype, provides a 5-minute long presentation of the organisation. The presentation is then followed by discussion and secret voting by the General Assembly for the acceptance of your organisation, giving you the status of a Member in organisation.\n\nIn order to become a Full Member, the organisation has had to have been a MiA for at least one year while also being nationally representative of pharmacy students in a given country. However, according to IPSF Official Documents, if the national organisation does not wish to attain Full Membership, another organisation of any size from the same country may apply. The application and acceptance procedure is then very much the same as for the MiAs.\n\nIPSF also offers individuals to become part of IPSF on their own, should they so desire. An individual may become one of the following: \nIndividual Membership is reserved for pharmacy and pharmaceutical science students or recent graduates up to four years after graduating from their first degree in pharmacy or pharmaceutical sciences.\n\nOn the other hand, any individual who wishes to contribute to the advancement of the aims of the Federation to the best of their capabilities, may become a Friend of the Federation. They are thus considered to be affiliated individuals of the Federation.\n\nLastly, IPSF also recognizes exceptional individuals who have contributed greatly to the status and the goals of the Federation. These are:\nHonorary Life Members are elected at the annual IPSF World Congress. They must be nominated by two organisations and must be accepted by the General Assembly.\n\nAlumni are, like Friends of the Federation, affiliated individuals of IPSF. To become an Alumni, the individual has to have been one of the following:\nTo be recognized as an Alumnus and if the criteria are met, IPSF Membership Coordinator should be contacted by the interested individual to receive the Alumni Form.\n\nThe IPSF Executive consists of fifteen elected members: President, Secretary General, Treasurer, Chairperson of Public Health, Chairperson of Media and Publications, Chairperson of Pharmacy Education, Chairperson of Professional Development, Chairperson of Internal Relations, Chairperson of External Relations, Chairperson of Student Exchange and Regional Chairpersons. The Executive also includes co-opted members - President-elect and the Chairperson of the Congress Reception Committee. Executive Committee members serve the Federation as volunteers with one Executive member designated as the Permanent Officer to work full-time at the IPSF Headquarters in The Hague, The Netherlands. \nIPSF has committees to help and supervise the working of the Executive Committee. committees consist of individuals who nominate themselves each year.\n\n\nThe IPSF Regional Office is a functional extension of the IPSF Executive structured by elected pharmacy students from IPSF member countries of a specific IPSF region, forming Regional Working Group. Its mission shall be to advance and support the aims and objectives of the Federation at regional level.\n\n\nThe main activity of the World Congress is the General Assembly, where the elections of the Executive Committee happen, approval of reports, changes to the Official Documents and any matter from the members or Executive Committee take place.\n\nThe Federation runs several projects during the year, mainly on Pharmacy Education, Professional Development, Public Health and on Student Exchange. Some of those projects are made and implemented by IPSF alone, and others depend on the active participation of member organisations.\n\nThe Pharmacy Education Portfolio focuses on promoting and developing pharmacy education worldwide, a critical objective of the Federation. A key partner of this portfolio in helping meet its objectives is FIPEd (FIP Education Initiative). The main projects are:\n\nThe Pharmacy Education Portfolio has two main publications: \n\nThe main competitions include the Poster Competition, held during IPSF Official Events, and the Critical Essay competition, held in collaboration with FIPed. Information regarding the posters, such as size, format and subject are shared with the Contact Persons and in the call for abstracts prior the event. This information will also be made available on the IPSF website.\n\nThe Pharmacy Education Portfolio undertakes various research projects. The opportunities may be for direct involvement or for collaborating on sharing and promoting the project.\n\nThe Federation releases calls for Internships with several partners, such as the World Health Organization, Alliance for Health Promotion, International Pharmaceutical Federation among others. These calls are shared with the Contact Persons and with IPSF students through the website and the Facebook Page. Each call may contain different criteria, as criteria pertains to the specific internship.\n\nIPSF is committed to ensuring quality pharmacy education and promoting the role of the pharmacist. Professional Development involves the process of active participation in formal and informal learning activities that assist individuals in developing and maintaining continuing competence, enhancing their professional practice, supporting achievement of their career goals, and optimizing health outcomes as an integral member of the health professional team.\n\nThrough professional skills workshops and competitions, pharmacy awareness campaigns and leadership training opportunities, IPSF strives to enhance the knowledge, skills, attitudes and values required by pharmacy professionals and students for their future practice.\n\nThe Patient Counselling Event (PCE) aims to demonstrate the importance of communication and counselling skills for pharmacists, increase the awareness of pharmacists as public educators, and encourage and promote the development of the pharmacy profession through an expanded scope of practice.\n\nIPSF held their first Patient Counselling Event at a congress in 1989 and today, the PCE is held at every IPSF World Congress, IPSF Regional Symposia and by many of our member organisations under the Professional Development portfolio. The main objectives for the Patient Counselling Event are to promote training in communication skills, and provide an opportunity for pharmacy students and pharmacists to learn how to effectively interact with patients, determine and address any drug therapy problems and educate patients on many medications and disease states in a fun and competitive environment.\n\nThe IPSF Clinical Skills Events (CSE) provide educational opportunities for members from across the globe to enhance and demonstrate their clinical pharmaceutical knowledge. The purpose of this event is to increase pharmacy students' awareness of the importance of the pharmacist's role in direct patient care. Individuals and teams compete by demonstrating their skills in assessing patient information and current therapy, identifying and prioritizing drug therapy problems, identifying treatment goals, and recommending a pharmaceutical care plan.\n\nThis activity is an interactive, individual or team-based analysis of clinical scenarios for hospital/health-system pharmacists and is open to all students ranging from first year students to recent graduates.\n\nThe Compounding Event (CE) was created to highlight the importance and the necessity of compounding skills within the pharmacy profession, especially as we are moving towards personalized medicine in health care. This event was first introduced at the 59th IPSF World Congress in Utrecht, the Netherlands in 2013. The Compounding Event has four main objectives:\nThe CE generally has two levels of difficulty, beginner and advanced, and typically begins with an introductory workshop. Following the workshop, students will be given a case and will be challenged to determine the best method to compound the formulation and prepare a finished product.\n\nThe Pharmacy Profession Advocacy Campaign (PPAC) is aimed at educating the public, policy makers, and other health care professionals about the role pharmacists play as an integral part of the health care team. It aims to provide insight on the daily functions of pharmacists from various sectors, and to promote awareness of the pharmacy profession at all levels, from students and recent graduates, to the general public.\n\nThe IPSF Leaders In Training program aims to impart the necessary leadership and management skills important for taking up professional roles in the future. The main objective of the LIT program is to equip participants with the skills needed to effectively take on roles of responsibility within the Federation as well as in their professional career. These include global roles in health issues, policy making and the pharmacy profession itself.\n\nFrom the point of a sustainable all round development of personality, leaders in training tries to impart skills such as general leadership responsibilities, strategic planning, project management, teamwork, time management, communication and public speaking, advocacy, etc.\n\nThe trainings are delivered by IPSF’s Certified Trainers, as well as members of the IPSF Executive Committee to ensure enough acquaintance to IPSF. The Leaders in Training program is held every year prior to the IPSF World Congress in addition to some of the IPSF Regional Symposia and also locally within some of our member Organisations.\n\nThe IPSF Trainers Development Camp aims to develop a high quality and sustainable training program for pharmaceutical students and recent graduates worldwide. In order to maintain our leadership programs to an exceptional standard and provide sustainable future leadership within IPSF we need to produce quality trainers to pass down this information. The IPSF TDC provides participants with a background on experience based learning and equips them with the necessary skills set in order to prepare and conduct trainings. IPSF certified trainers are then able to deliver trainings and workshops within the Leaders in Training program and other educational events (IPSF Regional Symposia, IPSF World Congress, etc.).\n\nIPSF strives to engage member organisations in initiatives that positively influence health and health knowledge within their communities. The Federation plays an active role in promoting and implementing Public Health activities and our work is greatly aided by our collaboration with the World Health Organization (WHO). The Federation currently holds six focuses, divided into Health Awareness, Medicine Awareness, and Humanitarian categories.\n\nIn 1987, the World Health Organization (WHO) dedicated December 1 to raising awareness of HIV and the AIDS pandemic. As a partner of WHO, IPSF organisations across the globe organise each year the HIV/AIDS campaign aimed at spreading awareness about HIV, its transmission as well as the ways of prevention.\n\nAlong with its partner, the WHO, IPSF celebrates World Tobacco Day the 31 May. During this day, IPSFers educate their society about the consequences of consuming tobacco and derivatives. The goal of the Tobacco Alert campaign, is to make young individuals aware of the dangers of tobacco and involve them in the fight against it in order to decrease the use of tobacco.\n\nThe Diabetes and Healthy Living Campaign, launched in August 2005, aims to raise awareness of a healthy lifestyle in the prevention and care of diabetes and to encourage pro-active rather than reactive health promotion. To celebrate World Diabetes Day on November 14, IPSF motivates its organisations to collaborate with interdisciplinary organisations from different medical disciplines in order to plan the campaign. During the campaign, IPSF members put their knowledge into practice in order to inform people about diabetes and the risk factors that can accelerate the affection, as well as the steps that should be undertaken to limit the development of this disease. As part of this Campaign, IPSF participates in Healthy Living activities on World Health Day each April 7. World Health Day was developed during the first World Health Assembly of the World Health Organization on 7 April 1948. In 1950, the Assembly declared this date as World Health Day to mark the World Health Organization’s founding and garner worldwide attention to a particular subject concerning global health. \n\nIn 1996, the WHO joined hands with the International Union Against Tuberculosis and Lung Disease (IUATLD), and today, the Stop TB partnership has been formed as a network of organisations and countries fighting against TB. The goal of this partnership is to eradicate TB by 2050. IPSF has been a strong advocate of organising this campaign to promote awareness about tuberculosis. On 24 March, referring to the official world TB day, IPSF organisations organise the tuberculosis awareness campaign in their home countries, where they share their knowledge as pharmacists and educate the population on the danger of tuberculosis which is still unknown by many individuals.\n\nAccording to a WHO announcement, the existence of substandard, spurious, falsely labelled, falsified and counterfeit (SSFFC) medical products is an unacceptable risk to public health.\n\nThe Anti-Counterfeit Drug Campaign (ACDC) works towards helping healthcare students create advocacy campaigns in their countries to help combat the problems of counterfeit and substandard medications. IPSF in collaboration with other stakeholders and organisations tends to act against the unlimited growing of fake medicines by raising awareness and advocacy actions.\n\nThe Medicine Awareness Campaign's goal is to improve awareness among healthcare students and others about medicines in different aspects. In this portfolio you can find subjects such as Antimicrobial resistance (AMR), rational use of medicines, drug abuse, drug disposal and any other issues related to medicines.\n\nA related campaign is the \"Drug disposal campaign\", in which IPSF focusses on the effect of unstandardized ways of medicine disposal on environment. Raising awareness among healthcare systems, advocacy campaigns and events for drug disposal in community pharmacies is recommended.\n\nThe Vampire Cup is an international blood donation competition among all the IPSF organisations and it was launched in 2011. By participating in the Vampire Cup, members are building the spirit of inter organisation competition, promoting international relationships, and the most important: saving lives. There are two ways to compete: Regular Vampire Cup and the Live Vampire Cup.\n\nIn both cases, the organisations need to submit a registration form and a tracker form by the given deadlines. The Live Vampire Cup occurs on specific days decided by the IPSF team. Traditionally, the days chosen are around World Blood Donor Day, June 14.\n\nThe WHO Executive Board has 34 members who are technically qualified and are designated by Member States that have been elected to serve by the World Health Assembly. The main functions of the Board are to implement the decisions and policies of the Assembly, and advise and facilitate its work.\n\nDuring the month of January, the Executive Board convenes to discuss and agree upon the agenda for the Assembly, and to adopt resolutions which will be considered during the Assembly.\n\nEvery year, representatives from IPSF attend the Executive Board Meeting to identify what priority issues will be discussed and to determine where the IPSF can contribute in the development of interventions. It is also through this opportunity that the IPSF can build new connections with different Member State actors.\n\nThe World Health Assembly (WHA) is the decision-making body of the World Health Organization. It is annually attended by delegations from all WHO Member States, as well as Non-State Actors. Furthermore, it focuses on the specific health agenda prepared by the Executive Board.\n\nThe main functions of the WHA are: \nEvery year, the IPSF calls for its members to be part of the IPSF Delegation to attend the WHA during the month of May in Geneva, Switzerland. The selected members are then orientedand trained on how they can actively participate and effectively engage in deliberations, discussions and events, in order for the IPSF to establish new partnerships and sustain existing connections with various stakeholders, and to develop collaborative projects and programs.\n\nStudent Exchange Programme (SEP) is IPSF's largest project, offering professional pharmacy internships. Every year, more than 900 students around the world are given the opportunity to experience the field of pharmacy in one of the 65 participating countries.\n\nThe Student Exchange Programme therefore enables cultural exchange between pharmacy students around the world by sharing knowledge and experiences.\n\nThe 74 member Organisations of IPSF involved in SEP organise the exchanges by finding host sites where the students are trained. The programme runs throughout the year (Winter version and Summer version), but the majority of the exchanges take place between May and September.\n\nThe length is usually 1 to 3 months with a minimum of 60 working hours per exchange, and possible host sites include:\nThe host may also provide room, board and/or pocket money in addition to the training site in order to help the applicant.\n\nThe SEP is organised by:\nIf you are a member of an IPSF member organisation, please contact the IPSF Student Exchange Officer (SEO) of your organisation for more information on the application procedure. For any other information about SEP please visit the website.\n\nThe Official Events of the Federation are the World Congress and the Regional Symposia – They happen yearly and are defined two years in advance and they do not overlap. The full costs for participating in the IPSF events are on the participant (Tickets and registration fee).\n\nThe Registration Fee is defined by the host, and it cannot be bigger than 45 Euros per day.\n\nThe host, after being elected at the General Assembly or Regional Assembly, appoints a Reception Committee (RC) – A committee that will be in charge of organising the event, with the Executive Committee. Near to the event, the RC can appoint a Helping Committee (HC) to add human resources to the work.\n\nThe head of the organisation, the “Chairperson of World Congress/Regional Symposium” is co-opted in the Executive Committee/Regional Working Group for the term of the office in which the event will be held.\n\nOther annex events that may happen with World Congress or Regional Symposium are the Leaders in Training and the Post Congress Tour.\n\nThe World Congress is the main event of the Federation and usually lasts for 10 days. They have been held yearly since 1961. The first conference happened in London, United Kingdom at 1949, and the first Congress happened in 1957 in Mosney, Ireland.\n\nThe first World Congress outside Europe was in the African Regional Office in 1974, in Cape Town, South Africa. The Pan American Regional Office then hosted their first Congress in 1977 in Mexico City, Mexico. The Eastern Mediterranean Region followed with in 1984 in Alexandria, Egypt. The Asia Pacific Regional Office then hosted their first Congress in 2003 in Singapore.\n\nDuring the World Congress, the activities that must happen are:\nThe main activity of the World Congress is the General Assembly, where the elections of the Executive Committee happen, approval of reports, changes to the Official Documents and any matter from the members or Executive Committee take place.\n\nToday, four Regional Offices organise a Regional Symposium yearly, which usually last for 7 days.\nThe only obligatory activity of the Regional Symposia are the Regional Assemblies. However, they usually resemble the World Congress.\n\nIPSF awards a number of grants throughout the year to help ensure students and member organisations can fully participate in IPSF events despite financial barriers.\n\nFour types of grants are awarded over the year. Two are applied for by member organisations and two are applied for by student members individually. Grants are awarded based on the submitted applications reviewed by the IPSF Treasurer, the Development Fund Coordinator and the Development Fund Committee.\n\nThe Membership Grant is made available to Full Member organisations and Members in Association who have been members of IPSF for at least one year. Any such organisation facing financial difficulties, if awarded a grant, may have their annual membership fees waived for the year.\n\nAn organisation can only apply for the Membership Grant twice every three years, if awarded the organisation is expected to complete at least one IPSF project, excluding SEP, in the 12 months following receipt of the grant. In addition, the organisation is expected to submit an article to be published in an IPSF publication.\n\nThe Project Grant is made available to Full Member Organisations and Members in Association planning to undertake a project or campaign and could benefit from financial assistance.\n\nAppropriate projects are not strictly defined, but they should benefit the members of the applying organisation or the public, and should be relevant to a current IPSF campaign or project.\n\nThe Event Grant is designed to better allow pharmacy students facing financial barriers to attend an IPSF event. Students intending to attend the IPSF World Congress or one of the Regional Symposia should submit an application to the Development Fund Committee.\n\nThe criteria for a successful application generally focuses on financial need including, but not limited to, cost of travel, visa, registration fee, personal resources, and World Bank economic classification of applying member’s country.\n\nSuccessful applicants are expected to submit all relevant receipts and a report detailing their experiences at the IPSF event to the Development Fund Coordinator.\n\nThe objective of the Student Exchange Grant is to allow pharmacy students with limited financial resources the opportunity to participate in the IPSF Student Exchange Programme.\n\nThe SEP Grant may cover part of the travel expenses (bus, train or plane tickets) from the applicant’s home country to the country in which the exchange occurs and the SEP fee. The maximum monetary value of the grant may be 1000 Euro and if the actual costs incurred are less than the awarded grant, only the amount of the actual costs will be paid.\n\nThe grant will be paid only after completion of the exchange and submission of the required documents. In addition, the applicant’s student exchange fee will be returned to the respective member organisation or to the applicant in the case of an individual membership\n\nEligible candidates must be currently studying for their pharmacy undergraduate degree (first pharmacy degree) or recent graduate of their first pharmacy degree (up to four years after the date of their graduation). An applicant may be an IPSF member through an IPSF Member Organisation (Full Member or Member in Association) or as an Individual Member (currently undergraduate or recent graduate of their first pharmacy degree).\n\nAll candidates may apply after their AF (application form) is either placed or marked successful in the database.\n\nGrant awardees are expected to complete a report of their SEP experience to be submitted to the Development Fund Coordinator and to the Chairperson of Student Exchange along with relevant receipts of their expenses.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47055024", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47055024", "title": "Japan Chernobyl Foundation", "text": "Japan Chernobyl Foundation\n\nThe Japan Chernobyl Foundation (JCF) is an officially-approved Japanese non-profit organization, dedicated to providing humanitarian aid, largely through medical care to children with leukemia and other illnesses. Established in 1991, the foundation initially provided medical support to Ukrainian and Belarusian victims of the Chernobyl disaster. JCF has also been active in providing medical and humanitarian aid in Iraq since 2004, as well as in Japan in the aftermath of the 2011 Tōhoku earthquake and tsunami, and the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear disaster of 2011. The headquarters of the Japan Chernobyl Foundation are in Matsumoto, Nagano, Japan. The current JCF Chairman is Dr. Minoru Kamata.\n\nThe Japan Chernobyl Foundation was founded in January 1991 in Matsumoto, Nagano, Japan, under the name \"Nihon Cherunobuiri Rentai Kikin\", or Japan Chernobyl Foundation (JCF), with the primary objective of providing medical support to victims of the 1986 disaster at the Chernobyl Nuclear Power Plant. The foundation has been particularly active in supporting screening, research and treatment for pediatric leukemia and thyroid cancer in cooperation with medical professionals at Shinshu University, the National Thyroid Cancer Center in Minsk, and the Gomel State Hospital.\n\nIn 1997, a training program was begun to establish a bone marrow transplantation center in Belarus, with JCF providing medical machinery, equipment, and materials to set up and maintain the project.\n\nIn 2004, JCF began providing medical aid in Iraq, focusing primarily on pediatric oncology. The foundation has sponsored cytotoxic therapy for children with cancer, as well as blood bank services through the donation of cell separator machines. The foundation has also offered training courses for pediatric oncology staff at sites outside Iraq. With financial support from the Kirin Brewery company, JCF was also able to provide specific medical supplies, such as leukocytosis factor agents for chemotherapy, to Iraq’s Central Teaching Hospital and to the Mansour Children's Welfare Teaching Hospital. Through its concurrent affiliation with the Japan-Iraq Medical Network (JIM-NET), JCF continues to help save the lives of Iraqi children with leukemia.\n\nFollowing the March 11, 2011, Tohoku earthquake and tsunami, which resulted in great damage along the north-eastern coast of Japan, and the subsequent nuclear accident at the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear plant, JCF staff have worked to check radiation levels in affected areas and to monitor foods from the region. With aid from the Shinshu University School of Medicine, the foundation has also been able to monitor blood radiation levels and watch for signs of thyroid cancer and leukemia in children, as well as provide psychological care.\n\nIn 2014, after the deterioration of the national security situation in Iraq and the ISIS occupation of Mosul and other Iraqi governorates, JCF launched a new initiative in Iraq to provide medical aid to refugees and other internally displaced people (IDP). The Mart-Shmuni Clinic has been sponsored by JCF since November 2014, with additional help from the government of Japan since March 2015. The initial Mart-Shmuni Clinic was simply a tent, staffed by doctors from among the IDP themselves. Subsequent JCF donation drives have provided sufficient support to establish a proper clinic and provide medicine and other supplies.\n\nJCF Chairman, Dr. Minoru Kamata, and other JCF-affiliated doctors, nurses and staff members, have made numerous visits to Iraq to provide aid. In addition, one JCF member has been working continually on site with local doctors in Erbil, Iraq, to monitor progress of the project and assess clinical needs.\n\nGround Zero, a quarterly publication, is the official journal of JCF. The journal details foundation activities through interviews and feature stories from disaster areas, and illustrates the role of JCF in working to solve relevant regional issues.\n\n"}
{"id": "28342241", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28342241", "title": "John Aitkin (surgeon)", "text": "John Aitkin (surgeon)\n\nJohn Aitkin MD (fl. 1770–1790) was a Scottish surgeon.\n\nHe is believed to have studied medicine at the University of Edinburgh, where he became MRCS. in 1770. In 1779 he is described as surgeon and lecturer on surgery in Edinburgh. Either at that time or later, his lectures included besides the practice of physic, anatomy, midwifery, and chemistry. He appears to have been a successful teacher, and wrote several books, chiefly as text-books for his lectures. They are said, and truly, to ‘contain much valuable information and to be well written;’ but to a reader of the present day they are of little value, having shared the unfortunate fate of most text-books written for purposes of instruction, and having become rapidly superannuated.\n\nJohn Aitkin made certain practical improvements in surgery. He introduced an alteration in the mode of locking the midwifery forceps. He also invented a flexible blade to the lever. He likewise invented and described in his ‘Essays and Cases in Surgery’ a pair of forceps for dividing and diminishing the stone in the bladder, when too large to remove entire by lithotomy.\n\nHis portrait forms the frontispiece to ‘Elements of Physic and Surgery,’ London 1783.\n\nHe wrote:\n"}
{"id": "4910782", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4910782", "title": "Latin American and Caribbean Center on Health Sciences Information", "text": "Latin American and Caribbean Center on Health Sciences Information\n\nThe Latin American and Caribbean Center on Health Sciences Information or BIREME was founded in São Paulo in 1967 as the Biblioteca Regional de Medicina, a specialized center of the Pan-American Health Organization (PAHO) / World Health Organization (WHO).\n\nBIREME coordinates the model development of the \"Virtual Health Library\" which includes around 20 million references for the access to the scientific and technical literature of the Latin America and Caribbean region.\n\nThe center in the campus of the Universidade Federal de São Paulo – Unifesp (Federal University of São Paulo). Since its foundation in 1967, BIREME is established by the agreement between \"PAHO\", \"Brazilian Ministry of Health\", \"Brazilian Ministry of Education\", \"Secretary of Health of the State of São Paulo\", and \"Unifesp\". Since 2009, the agreement coexists with the process of implementation of the new legal statute approved by the 49th Directing Council of PAHO. \n\nBIREME has always met the growing demand for up-to-date scientific literature from the Brazilian health systems and the communities of healthcare researchers, professionals and students. In 1982, its name changed to the current Latin American and Caribbean Center on Health Sciences Information, as to better express its dedication to the strengthening and expansion of the flow of scientific and technical health information across the region, but kept the acronym.\n\nNetworking, based on decentralization, on the development of local capacities, on sharing information resources, on developing cooperative products and services, on designing common methodologies, has always been the foundation of BIREME’s technical cooperation work. It has been like this that the center established itself as an international model that fosters professional education with managerial and technical information with the adoption of information and communication paradigms that best meet local needs.\n\nThe main foundations that gave origin and which support the existence of BIREME are following:\n\nBIREME, as a specialized center PAHO/WHO, coordinates and conducts technical cooperation activities on the management of scientific information and knowledge with the aim of strengthening and expanding the flow of scientific health information in Brazil and in other Latin American and Caribbean countries as a key condition for the development of health, including its planning, management, promotion, research, education, and care.\n\nThe Virtual Health Library (VHL) is the main model of this technical cooperation as a common space for the convergence of the cooperative work of producers, intermediaries, and users of health information.\n\n"}
{"id": "34935370", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34935370", "title": "Latvian Biomedical Research and Study centre", "text": "Latvian Biomedical Research and Study centre\n\nLatvian Biomedical Research and Study centre (BMC) is the scientific institute in molecular biology and biomedicine in Latvia. Since its establishment in 1993 it has evolved into a scientific centre performing basic as well as applied research in molecular genetics, vaccine development, genomics and proteomics, cancer biology, immunology, biotechnology, stem cell biology, structure biology and other scientific areas.\n\nFirst in 1993 under leadership of Prof. Elmars Grens Biomedical Research and Study centre of the University of Latvia (LU BMC) was established by merge of several research groups from Latvian Academy of Sciences (LAS), Molecular Biology Institute of University of Latvia and LAS Microbiology institute. From 2006 BMC is an independent state research institution, but it continues to work in close collaboration with University of Latvia and other universities in scientific and educational areas.\nAt the beginning scientific personnel of BMC consisted of 45 researchers, that carried out research in fields of molecular virology, nucleic acid chemistry, virus like particles and molecular epidemiology of infectious diseases. In 2000 BMC established long term collaboration with Switzerland company „Cytos Biotechnology” Ltd. concerning research of virus structural gene exploration in order to construct virus like particles that could serve as vaccines or immunomodulating therapeutics. New research area of cancer immunology in BMC developed with investigation of anti-cancer humoral immune response triggering proteins. In 2001 novel collaboration project financed by Latvian Council of Science “Genofond research of population of Latvia and its application for human pathology diagnostics and profilaxis” begun that promoted research of human genetics in Latvia. That led to establishment of Latvian Genome Data Base (LGDB) in 2006. LGDB now contains over 17000 samples that are available for research use for scientists of different research institutes.\nAfter Latvia joined European Union several projects were undertaken financed by European Structural funds. Significant development of infrastructure took place after financial support from State Research Program.\nAt the moment BMC scientific personnel exceeds 100 and main research areas are novel vaccine development, molecular virology, human genetics, epidemiology of infectious diseases, cancer biology and immunology, stem cell biology, structure biology and other fundamental as well as applied scientific fields.\n\n\nThe research and infrastructure is supported by funding from the Latvian Council of Science, Ministry of Education and Science, various European funding programmes like the European Social Fund, European Regional Development Fund, as well as by industry. Considerable core facilities have been established for molecular and cell biology research.\n\nLatvian Biomedcial Research and Study Centre has promoted the development of several related organizations Latvian Genome Data Base, Latvian Genome Centre, Latvian Association of Human Genetics, Genera Ltd., Asla Biotech Ltd. and Cilmes Sunu Tehnologijas Ltd. Currently, these organizations provide services in Latvia and foreign countries.\n\nIn collaboration with higher education institutions Latvian Biomedcial Research and Study Centre participates in student education. Academic personnel of BMC conducts lecture courses in University of Latvia, Riga Technical University and Riga Stradins University. Students from different universities carry out their bachelor, master or doctoral studies under supervision of BMC specialists.\n\nHead of the Scientific Council - Dr. Hab. Biol. Elmars Grens\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3466353", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3466353", "title": "Life hack", "text": "Life hack\n\nLife hack (or life hacking) refers to any trick, shortcut, skill, or novelty method that increases productivity and efficiency, in all walks of life. The term was primarily used by computer experts who suffer from information overload or those with a playful curiosity in the ways they can accelerate their workflow in ways other than programming.\n\nThe terms \"hack\", \"hacking\", and \"hacker\" have a long history of ambiguity in the computing and geek communities, particularly within the free and open source software crowds.\n\nThe original definition of the term \"hack\" is \"to cut with rough or heavy blows.\" In the modern vernacular it has often been used to describe an inelegant but effective solution to a specific computing problem, such as quick-and-dirty shell scripts and other command line utilities that filtered, munged and processed data streams like e-mail and RSS feeds. The term was later extended to \"life hack,\" in reference to a solution to a problem unrelated to computers that might occur in a programmer's everyday life. Examples of these types of life hacks might include utilities to synchronize files, track tasks, remind oneself of events, or filter e-mail.\n\nThe term life hack was coined in 2004 during the O'Reilly Emerging Technology Conference in San Diego, California by technology journalist Danny O'Brien to describe the \"embarrassing\" scripts and shortcuts productive IT professionals use to get their work done. After his presentation, use of the term \"life hack\" spread in the tech and blogging community.\n\nO'Brien and blogger Merlin Mann later co-presented a session called \"Life Hacks Live\" at the 2005 O'Reilly Emerging Technology conference. The two also co-author a column entitled \"Life Hacks\" for O'Reilly's \"Make\" magazine which debuted in February 2005.\n\nThe American Dialect Society voted \"lifehack\" (one word) as the runner-up for \"most useful word of 2005\" behind \"podcast\". The word was also added to the Oxford Dictionaries Online in June 2011.\n\nA recent YouTube trend has shown viral channels (e.g. '5-Minute Crafts') uploading compilation videos demonstrating 'life hacks', although their use of the term is debatable and they have been criticized by other YouTubers who have commented on them as being impractical and, at times, nonsensical.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1985416", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1985416", "title": "List of ICD-9 codes", "text": "List of ICD-9 codes\n\nThe following is a list of codes for International Statistical Classification of Diseases and Related Health Problems .\n"}
{"id": "34375669", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34375669", "title": "Mary Louise Roberts", "text": "Mary Louise Roberts\n\nMary Louise Roberts (17 February 1886 – 27 May 1968) was a New Zealand masseuse, physiotherapist and mountaineer. She was born in Dunedin, New Zealand, in 1886. She was New Zealand's most celebrated physiotherapist (before the coining of that name) and was for more the twenty years the principal of Dunedin Hospital school of massage, the only such training facility in New Zealand. In the 1946 King's Birthday Honours, Roberts was appointed an Officer of the Order of the British Empire.\n\n \n"}
{"id": "14315783", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14315783", "title": "Methyl-n-amylnitrosamine", "text": "Methyl-n-amylnitrosamine\n\nMethyl-\"n\"-amylnitrosamine (MNAN) is a potential carcinogen It is metabolized in the liver by the enzyme CYP2A6.\n"}
{"id": "39729575", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39729575", "title": "Office on Women's Health", "text": "Office on Women's Health\n\nThe Office on Women's Health (OWH) is part of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (DHHS) and functions to improve the health and well-being of U.S. women and girls. The main headquarters, from which the OWH operate, is located in Washington, DC with ten other regional women's health coordinators positioned across the country to implement local health initiatives.\n\nThe OWH was introduced in 1991 within the DHHS and is directed by the Deputy Assistant Secretary for [Women's] Health (DASWH.) The OWH typically work alongside federal government agencies; associations of health care professionals; tribal organizations; non-profit charities; consumer groups and state, county and local governments. Through funding and contracts with these organisations, the OWH is able to administer various strategies and programmes to improve women's health in America and increase awareness.\n\nA number of campaigns employed by the OWH have gained recognition for their work:\n\nThe role of local coordinators is to comply with national strategy established by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services and to represent the Deputy Assistant Secretary for Health by initiating campaigns in their communities. Other responsibilities include identifying regional needs in women's health and implementing activities in health care service delivery, research, and education. The regions are split up in the following way:\n\n"}
{"id": "2241254", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2241254", "title": "OpenEHR", "text": "OpenEHR\n\nopenEHR is an open standard specification in health informatics that describes the management and storage, retrieval and exchange of health data in electronic health records (EHRs). In openEHR, all health data for a person is stored in a \"one lifetime\", vendor-independent, person-centred EHR. The openEHR specifications include an EHR Extract specification but are otherwise not primarily concerned with the exchange of data between EHR-systems as this is the focus of other standards such as EN 13606 and HL7.\n\nThe openEHR specifications are maintained by the openEHR Foundation, a not for profit foundation supporting the open research, development, and implementation of openEHR EHRs. The specifications are based on a combination of 15 years of European and Australian research and development into EHRs and new paradigms, including what has become known as the archetype methodology for specification of content.\n\nThe openEHR specifications include information and service models for the EHR, demographics, clinical workflow and archetypes. They are designed to be the basis of a medico-legally sound, distributed, versioned EHR infrastructure.\n\nThe architecture of the openEHR specifications as a whole consists of the following key elements:\n\n\nThe use of the first two enable the development of 'archetypes' and 'templates', which are formal models of clinical and related content, and constitute a layer of \"de facto\" standards of their own, far more numerous than the base specifications on which they are built. The query language enables queries to be built based on the archetypes, rather than physical database schemata, thus decoupling queries from physical persistence details. The service models define access to key back-end services, including the EHR Service and Demographics Service, while a growing set of lightweight REST-based APIs based on archetype paths are used for application access.\n\nThe openEHR Architecture Overview provides a summary of the architecture and the detailed specifications.\n\nA central part of the openEHR specifications is the set of information models, known in openEHR as 'reference models'. The models constitute the base information models for openEHR systems, and define the invariant semantics of the Electronic Health Record (EHR), EHR Extract, and Demographics model, as well as supporting data types, data structures, identifiers and useful design patterns.\n\nSome of the key classes in the EHR component are the ENTRY classes, whose subtypes include OBSERVATION, EVALUATION, INSTRUCTION, ACTION and ADMIN_ENTRY, as well as the Instruction State Machine, a state machine defining a standard model of the lifecycle of interventions, including medication orders, surgery and other therapies.\n\nA key innovation in the openEHR framework is to leave all specification of clinical information out of the information model (also known as \"reference model\") and instead to provide a powerful means of expressing definitions of the content clinicians and patients need to record that can be directly consumed at runtime by systems built on the Reference Model. This is justified by the need to deal scalably with the generic problem in health of a very large, growing, and ever-changing set of information types.\n\nClinical content is specified in terms of two types of artefact which exist outside the information model. The first, known as \"archetypes\" provides a place to formally define re-usable data point and data group definitions, i.e. content items that will be re-used in numerous contexts. Typical examples include \"systemic arterial blood pressure measurement\" and \"serum sodium\". Many such data points occur in logical groups, e.g. the group of data items to document an allergic reaction, or the analytes in a liver function test result. Some archetypes contain numerous data points, e.g. 50, although a more common number is 10-20. A collection of archetypes can be understood as a \"library\" of re-usable domain content definitions, with each archetype functioning as a \"governance unit\", whose contents are co-designed, reviewed and published.\n\nThe second kind of artefact is known in openEHR as a \"template\", and is used to logically represent a use case-specific data-set, such as the data items making up a patient discharge summary, or a radiology report. A template is constructed by referencing relevant items from a number of archetypes. A template might only require one or two data points or groups from each archetype. In terms of the technical representation, openEHR templates cannot violate the semantics of the archetypes from which they are constructed. Templates are almost always developed for local use by software developers and clinical analysts. Templates are typically defined for GUI screen forms, message definitions and document definitions, and as such, correspond to \"operational\" content definitions.\n\nThe justification for the two layers of models over and above the information model is that if data set definitions consist of pre-defined data points from a library of such definitions, then all recorded data (i.e. instances of templates) will ultimately just be instances of the standard content definitions. This provides a basis for standardised querying to work. Without the archetype \"library\" level, every data set (i.e. chunk of operational content) is uniquely defined and a standard approach to querying is difficult.\n\nAccordingly, openEHR defines a method of querying based on archetypes, known as AQL (Archetype Querying Language).\n\nNotably, openEHR has been used to model shared care plan. The archetypes have been designed to accommodate the concepts of the shared care plan.\n\nWhile individual health records may be vastly different in content, the core information in openEHR data instances always complies to archetypes. The way this works is by creating archetypes which express clinical information in a way that is highly reusable, even universal in some cases.\n\nopenEHR archetypes are expressed in \"Archetype Definition Language\", an openEHR public specification. Two versions are available: ADL 1.4, and ADL 2, a new release with better support for specialisation, redefinition and annotations, among other improvements. The 1.4 release of ADL and its \"object model\" counterpart Archetype Object Model (AOM) are the basis for the CEN and ISO \"Archetype Definition Language\" standard (ISO standard 13606-2).\n\nTemplates have historically been developed in a simple, de facto industry-developed XML format, known as \".oet\", after the file extension. ADL 2 defines a way to express templates seamlessly with archetypes, using extensions of the ADL language.\n\nVarious principles for developing archetypes have been identified. For example, a set of openEHR archetypes needs to be quality managed to conform to a number of axioms such as being mutually exclusive. The archetypes can be managed independently from software implementations and infrastructure, in the hands of clinician groups to ensure they meet the real needs on the ground. Archetypes are designed to allow the specification of clinical knowledge to evolve and develop over time. Challenges in implementation of information designs expressed in openEHR centre on the extent to which actual system constraints are in harmony with the information design.\n\nIn the field of Electronic health records there are a number of existing information models with overlaps in their scope which are difficult to manage, such as between HL7 V3 and SNOMED CT. The openEHR approach faces harmonisation challenges unless used in isolation.\n\nFollowing the openEHR approach, the use of shared and governed archetypes globally would ensure openEHR health data could be consistently manipulated and viewed, regardless of the technical, organisational and cultural context. This approach also means the actual data models used by any EHR are flexible, given that new archetypes may be defined to meet future needs of clinical record keeping. Recently work in Australia has demonstrated how archetypes and templates may be used to facilitate the use of legacy health record and message data in an openEHR health record system, and output standardised messages and CDA documents.\n\nThe prospect of gaining agreement on design and on forms of governance at the international level remains speculative, with influences ranging from the diverse medico-legal environments to cultural variations, to technical variations such as the extent to which a reference clinical terminology is to be integral.\n\nThe openEHR Framework is consistent with the Electronic Health Record Communication Standard (ISO 13606), and the Archetype Object Model 2 (AOM2) has been officially accepted by ISO TC 215 as the draft specification for the 2017 revision of ISO 13606:2.\n\nopenEHR archetypes are being used by the National e-Health Transition Authority of Australia, the UK NHS Health and Social Care Information Centre (HSCIC), the Norwegian Nasjonal IKT organisation, and the Slovenian Ministry of Health.\n\nopenEHR has been selected as the basis for the standardised EHR in Brazil .\n\nIt is beginning to be utilised in commercial solutions throughout the world, including those produced by the openEHR Industry Partners.\n\nOne of the outcomes of openEHR modelling approach is the open development of archetypes, templates and terminology subsets to represent health data. Due to the open nature of openEHR, these structures are publicly available to be used and implemented in health information systems. Community users are able to share, discuss and approve these structures in a collaborative repository known as the Clinical Knowledge Manager (CKM). Some currently used openEHR CKMs:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56958014", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56958014", "title": "Ordinaire (wine bar)", "text": "Ordinaire (wine bar)\n\nOrdinaire is a wine bar, wine shop, and bistro-style restaurant in Oakland, California. Located on Grand Avenue in the Grand Lake District, Ordinaire had its grand opening in September 2013. Ordinaire only sells natural wine, produced from organic grapes with minimal chemical and technological intervention. Owner Bradford Taylor opened Ordinaire while pursuing a Ph.D at the University of California, Berkeley with a dissertation on the sense of taste in early 20th century modernist literature. Taylor is also an organizer of an annual natural wine festival in Oakland called Brumaire, which has held events at Ordinaire.\n\nIn addition to selling and serving wine, Ordinaire serves small plates and periodically partners with chefs to open as a pop-up restaurant called Bistro Ordinaire. Food and wine critics have praised Ordinaire for its selection of wines and hip yet unpretentious atmosphere. Amid a wave of interest in natural wine in the United States, Ordinaire has helped to establish Oakland as a natural wine hub. The shop has been described as an important site for natural wine culture within the East Bay, the San Francisco Bay Area, the West Coast, and the United States as a whole.\n\nOrdinaire exclusively stocks and sells natural wine. Owner Bradford Taylor modeled Ordinaire after the \"caves à manger\"—small natural wine shops that serve food—he encountered while living in Paris, particularly Le Verre Volé, Le Chateaubriand, and Le Baratin. \"Natural wine\" does not have a precise formal or legal definition; however, the term is generally accepted to mean wine produced from organically farmed or biodynamic grapes, without the use (or at least, minimal use) of filtration or additives (except for preservative sulfites, which are still often avoided). Taylor has said \"there's something productive about how nebulous the term 'natural' is, how it opens itself up to debate every time it comes up,\" and:\n\nOrdinaire has helped to promote natural wine in the Bay Area and the United States generally, and has become an Oakland destination for tourists. Chaney Kwak of \"The Guardian\" cited Ordinaire in an article arguing that Oakland was becoming a \"New Brooklyn\" and a \"creative capital to rival\" San Francisco. According to Jordan Michelman at \"Sprudge\", there is \"no one true home for natural wine in America ... But there are certain addresses that help define the culture here, and among them there's none more important on the west coast than that of Oakland's Ordinaire. ... [Taylor's] vision and influence at the helm of Ordinaire has helped define natural wine in America.\" Taylor has called the Bay Area natural wine scene \"really nascent, in its early stages especially compared to New York or Paris,\" but has also said that Ordinaire's proximity to other natural wine bars has \"made Oakland an organic- and natural-wine destination for people around the United States and overseas.\" Luke Tsai of the \"East Bay Express\" said Taylor was \"doing God's work in helping dispense with the notion that wine shops are all stuffy, intimidating places frequented only by the rich.\"\n\nTaylor opened Ordinaire while he was a doctoral candidate at UC Berkeley, writing his dissertation on the sense of taste in modernist literature, or specifically, on \"the concept of taste in early 20th century literature, as it toggles between an aesthetic sensibility and a more gustatory, more physical sense of eating.\" Taylor and his wife Nicole Betenia rented the building, a 3,000-sq ft former gym, and began renovations in October 2012. The shop was originally going to be named The Red Whale, but was renamed shortly before opening when Taylor received a cease-and-desist letter from a coffee business with the same name. The name Ordinaire was chosen after the French term \"vin ordinaire\", which refers to everyday, \"ordinary\" wines that skip bottling to be served by winemakers among their friends, typically in a bistro setting. \n\nOrdinaire had a soft opening in August 2013 and its grand opening in September. The shop is located on Grand Avenue in the Grand Lake District, a neighborhood of Oakland located at the northwest corner of Lake Merritt. Taylor chose the location because it was less expensive than many of the city's other, better-established commercial districts; he also said he \"thought it was ridiculous that this part of Oakland didn't have a shop that was an alternative to Trader Joe's and Whole Foods.\"\n\nAt the time Ordinaire opened, Taylor said that he and the staff \"didn't know what the fuck we were doing\" and that there was \"a sum total of zero days of service experience between the entire staff.\" At the time of opening, Taylor said, most patrons were unfamiliar with natural wine, and so the store sold \"a bunch of conventional stuff just to subsidize the kinds of wines we wanted to drink.\" By 2017, Ordinaire carried about 400 bottles in its cellar and, according to Taylor, had become \"a producer-centered shop, so we try to buy as many cuvées as we can from each winemaker we support\"—something wine writer Pamela S. Busch said shows \"a certain level of support and loyalty on the buyer’s part,\" but \"also requires the consumer to actively participate and think about what they are drinking.\" As of 2017, Taylor was living in Chicago and working to open a new shop with tastings but no bar component, which \"won't be called Ordinaire. There's only one of those.\" Taylor later announced that the Chicago shop will be called Diversey Wine. Since Taylor's departure to Chicago, Ordinaire has been managed by Quentin Jeanroy, with help from Alex Leopold, Kara Fowler, and Diego Perez.\n\nAlong with Josh Eubank (Percy Selections), Quinn Kimsey-White (Psychic Wines), and Matt Coelho (Woods Beer), Taylor helps organize the Brumaire Natural Wine Festival, an annual Oakland-based natural wine festival that began in 2016. Brumaire was inspired by wine-tasting salons and festivals in Europe and has featured wines from California, France, Italy, and Spain. Events at Brumaire have been hosted at Ordinaire itself, with other events hosted at nearby bars and restaurants. By its third year in 2018, Brumaire hosted 51 wineries and 500 attendants, with 400 people on a wait list.\n\nOrdinaire serves small sides for wine and food matching like cheese, charcuterie, and sardines. Ordinaire periodically opens as a pop-up restaurant called Bistro Ordinaire. The first Bistro Ordinaire pop-up opened in 2014 under the direction of Chris Kronner, who was in the process of moving his burger restaurant KronnerBurger from San Francisco to Oakland. Rather than his signature burger, Kronner served French cuisine and other fare. Kronner's Bistro Ordinaire won acclaim from Zagat, the \"East Bay Express\", and \"Oakland\" magazine, whose Ethan Fletcher said that Kronner \"caused a minor riot among Oakland foodies.\" Bistro Ordinaire returned in 2017 with Kosuke Tada, a chef Taylor met in Paris, serving three-course, \"prix fixe\" French-style meals. Ordinaire partnered with the Oakland restaurant Camino for an annual lunch event called Piqnique Ordinaire.\n\nFor several years, Ordinaire partnered with the nearby pizzeria Boot & Shoe Service to serve pizza at the bar. In January 2018, Ordinaire discontinued the partnership after Boot & Shoe's owner, Charlie Hallowell, was accused of sexual harassment by 17 former employees. In an announcement on Facebook, Taylor wrote \"[c]hange will only come if corporate officers and investors are economically threatened and the current modes of production are broken. ... Remember that the food and wine community that we cherish and enjoy is not built out of abstract ideas. It is built out of humans.\" Janelle Bitker of the \"East Bay Express\" noted the moral quandary facing restaurant patrons, who may fear that boycotting a business reported for sexual harassment could harm employees more than abusive owners; according to Bitker, Ordinaire had taken \"a significant stand that boycotting — as customers, suppliers, and business partners — is the answer.\"\n\nWithin a year of its grand opening, Ordinaire received positive reviews in \"Eater San Francisco\", \"San Jose Mercury News\", \"SF Weekly\", \"Oakland Local\", \"Wine & Spirits\", \"The San Francisco Examiner\", and \"Saveur\". In December 2013, \"Eater\" named Ordinaire one of the 19 \"hottest\" wine bars to open in the United States (plus one in Montreal) in the preceding year. Ordinaire has been listed as one of the best wine bars in the United States by \"Thrillist\" (in 2014), \"Bon Appétit\" (in 2015), and \"Food & Wine\" (in 2017). In 2018, \"Esquire\" named Ordinaire one of the 21 best bars in the United States.\n\nJordan Michelman wrote in the wine blog \"Sprudge\":\n\nLocal news site \"Berkeleyside\" recommended Ordinaire as a natural wine merchant, noting \"[y]es, it has a young and hipster-y vibe, but there's zero snobbery,\" and called it \"one of our country’s greatest wine bars.\" Pamela S. Busch wrote for \"The San Francisco Examiner\" that Ordinaire was worth visiting from San Francisco: \"I'd come back here even if it was a hole-in-the-wall — but it is not. Ordinaire is sophisticated without being pretentious, and this carries over to the ambiance. I wish it was closer to, if not in, San Francisco, but I get that Oakland needs to have wine bars of this caliber as well. No matter where you live in the Bay Area, Ordinaire is worth the trip.\" \"Saveur\" editor Chris Cohen praised the selection, atmosphere, and affordability, writing \"I usually dislike drinking wine out—something about seeing a wine listed for triple what I would pay in a store rubs me the wrong way. Ordinaire does things much more civilly: they're also a retail operation, and for $10 corkage they'll open anything in the shop for on-premises consumption.\" Esther Mobley at the \"San Francisco Chronicle\" wrote that domestic and foreign natural wines were well-represented in Ordinaire's selection, but \"[i]f it all sounds too crunchy-granola for you, there's also excellent normal-tasting wine here: Cabernet from Corison; Champagne from Bérèche et Fils and Laherte Freres champagne.\" Adding that Ordinaire had \"great\" wines at a variety of price points, Mobley continued: \"In the spirit of La Verre Volé, Ordinaire is spare, unpolished, even a little disheveled: Open boxes lie along the walls; magazines are piled on the bench of a wooden piano. It's relaxing, like you're in someone's living room. Pours are not stingy, and unsolicited top-offs are not uncommon.\"\n\nMarissa A. Ross, the wine columnist for \"Bon Appétit\", is an avowed fan of Ordinaire. In her 2017 book \"Wine. All the Time.: The Casual Guide to Confident Drinking\", Ross wrote \"I trust my favorite wine shops so much you would assume I was of blood relation to their owners. Places like Domaine LA, Lou, or Ordinaire know me better than I know myself.\" In an article on natural wine for \"Bon Appétit\" co-written by Ross and Belle Cushing, the two opined: \"A natural wine bar—whether it's Ordinaire in Oakland or Sub Rosato in Richmond, VA—is a modern version of \"Cheers\", with hand-harvested pinots instead of pints. And even if no one knows your name (yet), you might recognize some labels on the wall—a sign that you're among friends.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9871777", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9871777", "title": "Pahutoxin", "text": "Pahutoxin\n\nPahutoxin, formerly called ostracitoxin, is a neurotoxin present in the mucous secretions of boxfish (Ostraciidae) skin, while under stress. It is an ichthyotoxic, hemolytic, nonpeptide (which is relatively unusual, although similar to tetrodotoxin in this way) toxin. It is heat-stable and non-dialyzable, that is, foamed in aqueous solutions, and is toxic to various biological systems. It is unique among known fish poisons. It is toxic to other boxfish as well and looks like red tide and sea cucumber toxins in general properties. Although it is not recommended, it is a growing trend to keep boxfish in a home aquarium. Members of the family Ostraciidae secrete an ichthyotoxic mucus from their skin when stressed or disturbed.\n\nThe boxfish must be alive to synthesize its bodily chemicals into the toxin, therefore it cannot release its toxin after it dies. It may, however, have residual toxin if it were in the process of releasing toxin when it died.\n"}
{"id": "13677688", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13677688", "title": "Potassium-40", "text": "Potassium-40\n\nPotassium-40 (K) is a radioactive isotope of potassium which has a very long half-life of 1.251 years. It makes up 0.012% (120 ppm) of the total amount of potassium found in nature.\n\nPotassium-40 is a rare example of an isotope that undergoes both types of beta decay. About 89.28% of the time, it decays to calcium-40 (Ca) with emission of a beta particle (β, an electron) with a maximum energy of 1.31 MeV and an antineutrino. About 10.72% of the time it decays to argon-40 (Ar) by electron capture, with the emission of a 1.460 MeV gamma ray and a neutrino. The radioactive decay of this particular isotope explains the large abundance of argon (nearly 1%) in the earth's atmosphere, as well as its abundance compared to Ar. Very rarely (0.001% of the time) it will decay to Ar by emitting a positron (β) and a neutrino.\n\nPotassium-40 is especially important in potassium–argon (K–Ar) dating. Argon is a gas that does not ordinarily combine with other elements. So, when a mineral forms – whether from molten rock, or from substances dissolved in water – it will be initially argon-free, even if there is some argon in the liquid. However, if the mineral contains any potassium, then decay of the K isotope present will create fresh argon-40 that will remain locked up in the mineral. Since the rate at which this conversion occurs is known, it is possible to determine the elapsed time since the mineral formed by measuring the ratio of K and Ar atoms contained in it.\n\nThe argon found in Earth's atmosphere is 99.6% Ar; whereas the argon in the Sun – and presumably in the primordial material that condensed into the planets – is mostly Ar, with less than 15% of Ar. It follows that most of the terrestrial argon derives from potassium-40 that decayed into argon-40, which eventually escaped to the atmosphere.\n\nThe radioactive decay of K in the Earth's mantle ranks third, after Th and U, as the source of radiogenic heat. The core also likely contains radiogenic sources, although how much is uncertain. It has been proposed that significant core radioactivity (1-2 TW) may be caused by high levels of U, Th, and K.\n\nK is the largest source of natural radioactivity in animals including humans. A 70 kg human body contains about 140 grams of potassium, hence about 0.000117 × 140 = 0.0164 grams of K; whose decay produces about 4,300 disintegrations per second (becquerels) continuously throughout the life of the body.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "66432", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=66432", "title": "Progesterone", "text": "Progesterone\n\nProgesterone (P4) is an endogenous steroid and progestogen sex hormone involved in the menstrual cycle, pregnancy, and embryogenesis of humans and other species. It belongs to a group of steroid hormones called the progestogens, and is the major progestogen in the body. Progesterone has a variety of important functions in the body. It is also a crucial metabolic intermediate in the production of other endogenous steroids, including the sex hormones and the corticosteroids, and plays an important role in brain function as a neurosteroid.\n\nIn addition to its role as a natural hormone, progesterone is used as a medication, for instance in menopausal hormone therapy; for information on progesterone as a medication, see the progesterone (medication) article.\n\nProgesterone is the most important progestogen in the body, the result of its action as a potent agonist of the nuclear progesterone receptor (nPR) (with an affinity of K = 1 nM). In addition, progesterone is an agonist of the more recently discovered membrane progesterone receptors (mPRs), as well as a ligand of the PGRMC1 (progesterone receptor membrane component 1). Moreover, progesterone is also known to be an antagonist of the sigma σ receptor, a negative allosteric modulator of nicotinic acetylcholine receptors, and a potent antagonist of the mineralocorticoid receptor (MR). Progesterone prevents MR activation by binding to this receptor with an affinity exceeding even those of aldosterone and glucocorticoids such as cortisol and corticosterone, and produces antimineralocorticoid effects, such as natriuresis, at physiological concentrations. In addition, progesterone binds to and behaves as a partial agonist of the glucocorticoid receptor (GR), albeit with very low potency (EC >100-fold less relative to cortisol).\n\nProgesterone, through its neurosteroid active metabolites such as 5α-dihydroprogesterone and allopregnanolone, acts indirectly as a positive allosteric modulator of the GABA receptor.\n\nProgesterone and some of its metabolites, such as 5β-dihydroprogesterone, are agonists of the pregnane X receptor (PXR), albeit weakly so (EC >10 µM). In accordance, progesterone induces several hepatic cytochrome P450 enzymes, such as CYP3A4, especially during pregnancy when concentrations are much higher than usual. Perimenopausal women have been found to have greater CYP3A4 activity relative to men and postmenopausal women, and it has been inferred that this may be due to the higher progesterone levels present in perimenopausal women.\n\nProgesterone modulates the activity of CatSper (cation channels of sperm) voltage-gated Ca channels. Since eggs release progesterone, sperm may use progesterone as a homing signal to swim toward eggs (chemotaxis). As a result, it has been suggested that substances that block the progesterone binding site on CatSper channels could potentially be used in male contraception.\n\nProgesterone has a number of physiological effects that are amplified in the presence of estrogens. Estrogens through estrogen receptors (ERs) induce or upregulate the expression of the PR. One example of this is in breast tissue, where estrogens allow progesterone to mediate lobuloalveolar development.\n\nElevated levels of progesterone potently reduce the sodium-retaining activity of aldosterone, resulting in natriuresis and a reduction in extracellular fluid volume. Progesterone withdrawal, on the other hand, is associated with a temporary increase in sodium retention (reduced natriuresis, with an increase in extracellular fluid volume) due to the compensatory increase in aldosterone production, which combats the blockade of the mineralocorticoid receptor by the previously elevated level of progesterone.\n\nProgesterone has key effects via non-genomic signalling on human sperm as they migrate through the female tract before fertilization occurs, though the receptor(s) as yet remain unidentified. Detailed characterisation of the events occurring in sperm in response to progesterone has elucidated certain events including intracellular calcium transients and maintained changes, slow calcium oscillations, now thought to possibly regulate motility. It is produced by the ovaries. Progesterone has also been shown to demonstrate effects on octopus spermatozoa.\n\nProgesterone is sometimes called the \"hormone of pregnancy\", and it has many roles relating to the development of the fetus:\n\nThe fetus metabolizes placental progesterone in the production of adrenal steroids.\n\nProgesterone plays an important role in breast development in women. In conjunction with prolactin, it mediates lobuloalveolar maturation of the mammary glands during pregnancy to allow for milk production and thus lactation and breastfeeding of offspring following parturition (childbirth). Estrogen induces expression of the PR in breast tissue and hence progesterone is dependent on estrogen to mediate lobuloalveolar development. It has been found that is a critical downstream mediator of progesterone-induced lobuloalveolar maturation. RANKL knockout mice show an almost identical mammary phenotype to PR knockout mice, including normal mammary ductal development but complete failure of the development of lobuloalveolar structures.\n\nThough to a far lesser extent than estrogen, which is the major mediator of mammary ductal development (via the ERα), progesterone has been found to be involved in ductal development of the mammary glands to some extent as well. PR knockout mice or mice treated with the PR antagonist mifepristone show delayed although otherwise normal mammary ductal development at puberty. In addition, mice modified to have overexpression of PRA display ductal hyperplasia, and progesterone induces ductal growth in the mouse mammary gland. Progesterone mediates ductal development mainly via induction of the expression of amphiregulin, the same growth factor that estrogen primarily induces the expression of to mediate ductal development. These animal findings suggest that, while not essential for full mammary ductal development, progesterone seems to play a potentiating or accelerating role in estrogen-mediated mammary ductal development.\n\nProgesterone also appears to be involved in the pathophysiology of breast cancer, though its role, and whether it is a promoter or inhibitor of breast cancer risk, has not been fully elucidated. In any case, while most synthetic progestins like medroxyprogesterone acetate have been found to significantly increase the risk of breast cancer in postmenopausal women in combination with estrogen as a component of hormone replacement therapy, the combination of natural progesterone (or the atypical progestin dydrogesterone) with estrogen has been found not to do so.\n\nThe estrogen receptor, as well as the progesterone receptor, have been detected in the skin, including in keratinocytes and fibroblasts. At menopause and thereafter, decreased levels of female sex hormones result in atrophy, thinning, and increased wrinkling of the skin and a reduction in skin elasticity, firmness, and strength. These skin changes constitute an acceleration in skin aging and are the result of decreased collagen content, irregularities in the morphology of epidermal skin cells, decreased ground substance between skin fibers, and reduced capillaries and blood flow. The skin also becomes more dry during menopause, which is due to reduced skin hydration and surface lipids (sebum production). Along with chronological aging and photoaging, estrogen deficiency in menopause is one of the three main factors that predominantly influences skin aging.\n\nHormone replacement therapy, consisting of systemic treatment with estrogen alone or in combination with a progestogen, has well-documented and considerable beneficial effects on the skin of postmenopausal women. These benefits include increased skin collagen content, skin thickness and elasticity, and skin hydration and surface lipids. Topical estrogen has been found to have similar beneficial effects on the skin. In addition, a study has found that topical 2% progesterone cream significantly increases skin elasticity and firmness and observably decreases wrinkles in peri- and postmenopausal women. Skin hydration and surface lipids, on the other hand, did not significantly change with topical progesterone. These findings suggest that progesterone, like estrogen, also has beneficial effects on the skin, and may be independently protective against skin aging.\n\nProgesterone and its neurosteroid active metabolite allopregnanolone appear to be importantly involved in libido in females.\n\nDr. Diana Fleischman, of the University of Portsmouth, and colleagues examined the relationship between progesterone and sexual attitudes. Their research was published in the Archives of Sexual Behavior. They found that women who have higher levels of progesterone are more likely to be open to the idea of engaging in sexual behaviour with other women. A parallel pattern of openness to homosexual behaviour is particularly dramatic in men who have high levels of progesterone.\n\nProgesterone, like pregnenolone and dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA), belongs to an important group of endogenous steroids called neurosteroids. It can be metabolized within all parts of the central nervous system.\n\nNeurosteroids are neuromodulators, and are neuroprotective, neurogenic, and regulate neurotransmission and myelination. The effects of progesterone as a neurosteroid are mediated predominantly through its interactions with non-nuclear PRs, namely the mPRs and PGRMC1, as well as certain other receptors, such as the σ and nACh receptors.\n\nSince most progesterone in males is created during testicular production of testosterone, and most in females by the ovaries, the shutting down (whether by natural or chemical means), or removal, of those inevitably causes a considerable reduction in progesterone levels. Previous concentration upon the role of progestogens in female reproduction, when progesterone was simply considered a \"female hormone\", obscured the significance of progesterone elsewhere in both sexes.\n\nThe tendency for progesterone to have a regulatory effect, the presence of progesterone receptors in many types of body tissue, and the pattern of deterioration (or tumor formation) in many of those increasing in later years when progesterone levels have dropped, is prompting widespread research into the potential value of maintaining progesterone levels in both males and females.\n\nPrevious studies have shown that progesterone supports the normal development of neurons in the brain, and that the hormone has a protective effect on damaged brain tissue. It has been observed in animal models that females have reduced susceptibility to traumatic brain injury and this protective effect has been hypothesized to be caused by increased circulating levels of estrogen and progesterone in females.\n\nThe mechanism of progesterone protective effects may be the reduction of inflammation that follows brain trauma and hemorrhage.\n\nDamage incurred by traumatic brain injury is believed to be caused in part by mass depolarization leading to excitotoxicity. One way in which progesterone helps to alleviate some of this excitotoxicity is by blocking the voltage-dependent calcium channels that trigger neurotransmitter release. It does so by manipulating the signaling pathways of transcription factors involved in this release. Another method for reducing the excitotoxicity is by up-regulating the GABA, a widespread inhibitory neurotransmitter receptor.\n\nProgesterone has also been shown to prevent apoptosis in neurons, a common consequence of brain injury. It does so by inhibiting enzymes involved in the apoptosis pathway specifically concerning the mitochondria, such as activated caspase 3 and cytochrome c.\n\nNot only does progesterone help prevent further damage, it has also been shown to aid in neuroregeneration. One of the serious effects of traumatic brain injury includes edema. Animal studies show that progesterone treatment leads to a decrease in edema levels by increasing the concentration of macrophages and microglia sent to the injured tissue. This was observed in the form of reduced leakage from the blood brain barrier in secondary recovery in progesterone treated rats. In addition, progesterone was observed to have antioxidant properties, reducing the concentration of oxygen free radicals faster than without. There is also evidence that the addition of progesterone can also help remyelinate damaged axons due to trauma, restoring some lost neural signal conduction. Another way progesterone aids in regeneration includes increasing the circulation of endothelial progenitor cells in the brain. This helps new vasculature to grow around scar tissue which helps repair the area of insult.\n\nProgesterone enhances the function of serotonin receptors in the brain, so an excess or deficit of progesterone has the potential to result in significant neurochemical issues. This provides an explanation for why some people resort to substances that enhance serotonin activity such as nicotine, alcohol, and cannabis when their progesterone levels fall below optimal levels.\n\n\n\nIn mammals, progesterone, like all other steroid hormones, is synthesized from pregnenolone, which itself is derived from cholesterol.\n\nCholesterol undergoes double oxidation to produce 22\"R\"-hydroxycholesterol and then 20α,22\"R\"-dihydroxycholesterol. This vicinal diol is then further oxidized with loss of the side chain starting at position C22 to produce pregnenolone. This reaction is catalyzed by cytochrome P450scc.\n\nThe conversion of pregnenolone to progesterone takes place in two steps. First, the 3β-hydroxyl group is oxidized to a keto group and second, the double bond is moved to C4, from C5 through a keto/enol tautomerization reaction. This reaction is catalyzed by 3β-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase/δ-isomerase.\n\nProgesterone in turn is the precursor of the mineralocorticoid aldosterone, and after conversion to 17α-hydroxyprogesterone, of cortisol and androstenedione. Androstenedione can be converted to testosterone, estrone, and estradiol.\n\nPregnenolone and progesterone can also be synthesized by yeast.\n\nApproximately 30 mg of progesterone is secreted from the ovaries per day in women, while the adrenal glands produce about 1 mg of progesterone per day.\n\nProgesterone binds extensively to plasma proteins, including albumin (50–54%) and transcortin (43–48%). It has similar affinity for albumin relative to the PR.\n\nThe metabolism of progesterone is rapid and extensive and occurs mainly in the liver, though enzymes that metabolize progesterone are also expressed widely in the brain, skin, and various other extrahepatic tissues. Progesterone has an elimination half-life of only approximately 5 minutes in circulation. The metabolism of progesterone is complex, and it may form as many as 35 different unconjugated metabolites when it is ingested orally. Progesterone is highly susceptible to enzymatic reduction via reductases and hydroxysteroid dehydrogenases due to its double bond (between the C4 and C5 positions) and its two ketones (at the C3 and C20 positions).\n\nThe major metabolic pathway of progesterone is reduction by 5α-reductase and 5β-reductase into the dihydrogenated 5α-dihydroprogesterone and 5β-dihydroprogesterone, respectively. This is followed by the further reduction of these metabolites via 3α-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase and 3β-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase into the tetrahydrogenated allopregnanolone, pregnanolone, isopregnanolone, and epipregnanolone. Subsequently, 20α-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase and 20β-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase reduce these metabolites to form the corresponding hexahydrogenated pregnanediols (eight different isomers in total), which are then conjugated via glucuronidation and/or sulfation, released from the liver into circulation, and excreted by the kidneys into the urine. The major metabolite of progesterone in the urine is the 3α,5β,20α isomer of pregnanediol glucuronide, which has been found to constitute 15 to 30% of an injection of progesterone. Other metabolites of progesterone formed by the enzymes in this pathway include 3α-dihydroprogesterone, 3β-dihydroprogesterone, 20α-dihydroprogesterone, and 20β-dihydroprogesterone, as well as various combination products of the enzymes aside from those already mentioned. Progesterone can also first be hydroxylated (see below) and then reduced.\n\nRelatively small portions of progesterone are hydroxylated via 17α-hydroxylase (CYP17A1) and 21-hydroxylase (CYP21A2) into 17α-hydroxyprogesterone and 11-deoxycorticosterone (21-hydroxyprogesterone), respectively, and pregnanetriols are formed secondarily to 17α-hydroxylation. In addition, progesterone can be hydroxylated in the liver by other cytochrome P450 enzymes which are not steroid-specific. 6β-Hydroxylation, which is catalyzed mainly by CYP3A4, is the major transformation, and is responsible for approximately 70% of cytochrome P450-mediated progesterone metabolism. Other routes include 6α-, 16α-, and 16β-hydroxylation. However, treatment of women with ketoconazole, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, had minimal effects on progesterone levels, producing only a slight and non-significant increase, and this suggests that cytochrome P450 enzymes play only a small role in progesterone metabolism.\nIn women, progesterone levels are relatively low during the preovulatory phase of the menstrual cycle, rise after ovulation, and are elevated during the luteal phase, as shown in diagram below. Progesterone levels tend to be less than 2 ng/mL prior to ovulation, and greater than 5 ng/mL after ovulation. If pregnancy occurs, human chorionic gonadotropin is released maintaining the corpus luteum allowing it to maintain levels of progesterone. Between 7 to 9 weeks the placenta begins to produce progesterone in place of the corpus luteum, this process is named the luteal-placental shift.\n\nAfter the luteal-placental shift progesterone levels start to rise further and may reach 100 to 200 ng/mL at term. Whether a decrease in progesterone levels is critical for the initiation of labor has been argued and may be species-specific. After delivery of the placenta and during lactation, progesterone levels are very low.\n\nProgesterone levels are low in children and postmenopausal women. Adult males have levels similar to those in women during the follicular phase of the menstrual cycle.\n\nBlood test results should always be interpreted using the reference ranges provided by the laboratory that performed the results. Example reference ranges are listed below.\n\nProgesterone is produced in high amounts in the ovaries (by the corpus luteum) from the onset of puberty to menopause, and is also produced in smaller amounts by the adrenal glands after the onset of adrenarche in both males and females. To a lesser extent, progesterone is produced in nervous tissue, especially in the brain, and in adipose (fat) tissue, as well.\n\nDuring human pregnancy, progesterone is produced in increasingly high amounts by the ovaries and placenta. At first, the source is the corpus luteum that has been \"rescued\" by the presence of human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG) from the conceptus. However, after the 8th week, production of progesterone shifts to the placenta. The placenta utilizes maternal cholesterol as the initial substrate, and most of the produced progesterone enters the maternal circulation, but some is picked up by the fetal circulation and used as substrate for fetal corticosteroids. At term the placenta produces about 250 mg progesterone per day.\n\nAn additional animal source of progesterone is milk products. After consumption of milk products the level of bioavailable progesterone goes up.\n\nIn at least one plant, \"Juglans regia\", progesterone has been detected. In addition, progesterone-like steroids are found in \"Dioscorea mexicana\". \"Dioscorea mexicana\" is a plant that is part of the yam family native to Mexico. It contains a steroid called diosgenin that is taken from the plant and is converted into progesterone. Diosgenin and progesterone are also found in other \"Dioscorea\" species, as well as in other plants that are not closely related, such as fenugreek.\n\nAnother plant that contains substances readily convertible to progesterone is \"Dioscorea pseudojaponica\" native to Taiwan. Research has shown that the Taiwanese yam contains saponins — steroids that can be converted to diosgenin and thence to progesterone.\n\nMany other \"Dioscorea\" species of the yam family contain steroidal substances from which progesterone can be produced. Among the more notable of these are \"Dioscorea villosa\" and \"Dioscorea polygonoides\". One study showed that the \"Dioscorea villosa\" contains 3.5% diosgenin. \"Dioscorea polygonoides\" has been found to contain 2.64% diosgenin as shown by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry. Many of the \"Dioscorea\" species that originate from the yam family grow in countries that have tropical and subtropical climates.\n\nProgesterone is used as a medication, mainly in hormone replacement therapy.\n\nProgesterone is a naturally occurring pregnane steroid and is also known as pregn-4-ene-3,20-dione. It has a double bond (4-ene) between the C4 and C5 positions and two ketone groups (3,20-dione), one at the C3 position and the other at the C20 position.\n\nAn economical semisynthesis of progesterone from the plant steroid diosgenin isolated from yams was developed by Russell Marker in 1940 for the Parke-Davis pharmaceutical company. This synthesis is known as the Marker degradation. Additional semisyntheses of progesterone have also been reported starting from a variety of steroids. For the example, cortisone can be simultaneously deoxygenated at the C-17 and C-21 position by treatment with iodotrimethylsilane in chloroform to produce 11-keto-progesterone (ketogestin), which in turn can be reduced at position-11 to yield progesterone.\n\nProgesterone can also be made from the stigmasterol found in soybean oil also. c.f. Percy Julian.\n\nA total synthesis of progesterone was reported in 1971 by W.S. Johnson. The synthesis begins with reacting the phosphonium salt 7 with phenyl lithium to produce the phosphonium ylide 8. The ylide 8 is reacted with an aldehyde to produce the alkene 9. The ketal protecting groups of 9 are hydrolyzed to produce the diketone 10, which in turn is cyclized to form the cyclopentenone 11. The ketone of 11 is reacted with methyl lithium to yield the tertiary alcohol 12, which in turn is treated with acid to produce the tertiary cation 13. The key step of the synthesis is the π-cation cyclization of 13 in which the B-, C-, and D-rings of the steroid are simultaneously formed to produce 14. This step resembles the cationic cyclization reaction used in the biosynthesis of steroids and hence is referred to as \"biomimetic\". In the next step the enol orthoester is hydrolyzed to produce the ketone 15. The cyclopentene A-ring is then opened by oxidizing with ozone to produce 16. Finally, the diketone 17 undergoes an intramolecular aldol condensation by treating with aqueous potassium hydroxide to produce progesterone.\n\nThe hormonal action of progesterone was discovered in 1929, following that of estrogen in 1923. By 1931–1932, nearly pure crystalline material of high progestational activity had been isolated from the corpus luteum of animals, and by 1934, pure crystalline progesterone had been refined and obtained and the chemical structure of progesterone was determined. This was achieved by Adolf Butenandt at the \"Chemisches Institut\" of Technical University in Gdańsk, who extracted this new compound from several thousand liters of urine.\n\nChemical synthesis of progesterone from stigmasterol and pregnanediol was accomplished later that year. Up to this point, progesterone, known generically as corpus luteum hormone, had been being referred to by several groups by different names, including corporin, lutein, luteosterone, and progestin. In 1935, at the time of the Second International Conference on the Standardization of Sex Hormones in London, England, a compromise was made between the groups and the name progesterone (progestational steroidal ketone) was created.\nThe use of progesterone in tests dog breeding to pinpoint ovulation is becoming more widely used. There are several tests available but the most reliable test is a blood test with blood drawn by a veterinarian and sent to a lab for processing. Results can usually be obtained with 24 to 72 hours. The rationale for using progesterone tests is that increased numbers begin in close proximity to preovulatory surge in gonadotrophins and continue through ovulation and estrus. When progesterone levels reach certain levels they can signal the stage of estrus the female is. Prediction of birth date of the pending litter can be very accurate if ovulation date is known. Puppies deliver with a day or two of 9 weeks gestation in most cases. It is not possible to determine pregnancy using progesterone tests once a breeding has taken place however. This is due to the fact that, in dogs, progestrone levels remain elevated throughout the estrus period.\n\n"}
{"id": "13420782", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13420782", "title": "Raja Isteri Pengiran Anak Saleha Hospital", "text": "Raja Isteri Pengiran Anak Saleha Hospital\n\nRaja Isteri Pengiran Anak Saleha Hospital, commonly abbreviated as RIPAS Hospital, is the main and largest hospital in Brunei. It is the primary referral hospital, as well as a teaching hospital for medical and nursing students mainly from Universiti Brunei Darussalam, the only university in the country providing such courses. The hospital is funded by the government and administered under the Ministry of Health. It was officially opened on 28 August 1984. The hospital accommodates 880 beds and has 257 doctors. \n\nRaja Isteri Pengiran Anak Saleha Hospital is situated on a (42-acre) site located from the City Centre of Bandar Seri Begawan, the capital of Brunei. The site is also located close to the bank of the Kedayan River, which provides water transport access to the populaces of Kampong Ayer on the Brunei River.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26124768", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26124768", "title": "Sex Matters", "text": "Sex Matters\n\nSex Matters is a Canadian talk show that broadcasts on CP24 exploring many issues about human sexuality. The program is hosted by CP24's Cynthia Loyst. Live broadcasts of the program airs Thursday and Friday nights at 10:30 pm on CP24. CP24 also rebroadcasts the program every Saturday and Sunday nights at 10:30 pm. Star! also airs the program every Saturday and Sunday nights at 11:30 pm. The program first aired on February 11, 2010 on CP24.\n\n"}
{"id": "28175824", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28175824", "title": "Spanish National Health System", "text": "Spanish National Health System\n\nThe Spanish National Health System (, SNS) is the agglomeration of public health services that has existed in Spain since it was established through and structured by the \"Ley General de Sanidad\" (the \"General Health Law\") of 1986. Management of these services has been progressively transferred to the distinct autonomous communities of Spain, while some continue to be operated by the National Institute of Health Management (\"Instituto Nacional de Gestión Sanitaria\", INGESA), part of the Ministry of Health and Social Policy (which superseded the Ministry of Health and Consumer Affairs—\"Ministerio de Sanidad y Consumo\"—in 2009). The activity of these services is harmonized by the Interterritorial Council of the Spanish National Health Service (\"Consejo Interterritorial del Servicio Nacional de Salud de España\", CISNS) in order to give cohesion to the system and to guarantee the rights of citizens throughout Spain.\n\nArticle 46 of the \"Ley General de Sanidad\" establishes the fundamental characteristics of the SNS:\n\nPublic intervention in collective health problems has always been of interest to governments and societies, especially in the control of epidemics through the establishment of naval quarantines, the closing of city walls and prohibitions on travel in times of plague, but also in terms of hygienic and palliative measures. Al-Andalus—Muslim-ruled medieval Spain—was distinguished by its level of medical knowledge relative to the rest of Europe, particularly among the physicians of the Golden age of Jewish culture in Spain. In the years after the \"Reconquista\", the \"Real Tribunal del Protomedicato\" regulated the practice of medicine in Spain and in its colonies. However, the system of medical faculties at the various universities was very decentralized. Surgery and pharmacy were quite separate from medicine and were considerably less prestigious; the systems of Galen and Hippocrates dominated medical practice during most of the era of the \"Antiguo Régimen\".\n\nMedicine was one of the principal fields of activity for the \"novatores\" of the late 17th century, but their initiatives were individualized and localized. There is some continuity from their work to the broader work during the Age of Enlightenment, such as through the Colegio de Cirugía de San Carlos (\"San Carlos College of Surgery\") in Madrid. At the beginning of the 19th century, the Balmis Expedition (1803) to administer the smallpox vaccine throughout the Spanish colonies was a public health undertaking of unprecedented geographical scope.\nThe Cádiz Cortes debated a sanitary code (the \"Código Sanitario de 1812\"), but nothing was approved due to lack of scientific and technical consensus about the actions to be undertaken. During the bienio progresista, the Law of 28 November 1855 established the basis for a General Health Directorate (\"Dirección General de Sanidad\"), which was created a few years later and which would last into the 20th century. The Royal Decree of 12 January 1904 approved the General Health Instruction (\"Instrucción General de Sanidad\"), which altered little of the 1855 scheme besides the name; the name would later change to General Inspectorate of Health (\"Inspección General de Sanidad\").\n\nAfter the Spanish Civil War, the \"Ley de Bases de 1944\" perpetuated this . The Law of 14 December 1942 create a system of obligatory health insurance under the already extant National Insurance Institute (\"Instituto Nacional de Previsión\", INP). The system was based on a percentage tax linked to employment. This was further modified by the General Law of Social Security (\"Ley General de la Seguridad Social\") in 1974, toward the end of the Franco regime. Social Security had taken on an increasing number of diseases within its package of services, as well as covering a larger number of individuals and communities.\n\nThe General Health Law (\"Ley General de Sanidad\") of 25 April 1986 and the creation of Health Councils (\"Consejerías de Sanidad\") and a Ministry of Health, fulfilled the mandate of the Spanish Constitution of 1978, in particular Articles 43 and 49 which made protection of health a right of all citizens, and Title VIII, which foresaw that purview over matters of health would devolve to the autonomous communities.\n\nThe General Health Law of 1986 (\"Ley 14/1986 General de Sanidad\") was formulated on two bases. First, it carries out a mandate of the Spanish Constitution, whose articles 43 and 49 establish the right of all citizens to protection of their health. The law recognizes a right to health services for all citizens and for foreigners resident in Spain.\n\nSecond, Title VIII of the Constitution confers upon the autonomous communities broad purview in matters of health and health care. The autonomous communities have first-order importance in this area, and the law permits devolution of these functions from the central government to the autonomous communities, in order to provide a health care system sufficient for the needs of their respective jurisdictions. Article 149.1.16 or the Constitution, a further basis for the present law, establishes substantive principles and criteria that allow general and common characteristics to be consistent throughout the new system, providing a common basis for health services throughout Spanish territory.\n\nThe administrative device set up by the law is the National Health System. The presumption underlying the adopted model is that in each autonomous community, authorities are adequately equipped with necessary territorial perspective, so that the benefits of autonomy do not conflict with the needs of management efficiency.\n\nThus, the various health services fall under the responsibility of the respective autonomous communities, but also under basic direction and coordination by the central state. The respective health services of the autonomous communities would gradually realize a transfer of health resources from the central government to the autonomous communities.\n\nThe General Health Law was complemented in 2003 by the Law of Cohesion and Quality of the National Health System (\"Ley 16/2003 de cohesión y calidad del Sistema Nacional de Salud\"), which maintained the basic lines of the General Health Law, but modified and broadened the articulation of that law to reflect existent social and political reality. By 2003, all of the autonomous communities had gradually assumed purview in matters of health and had established stable models to finance the assumed purview. Meanwhile, in the 17 years since the original law, Spanish society had undergone many cultural, technological and socioeconomic changes that affected people's ways of life and affected the country's patterns of disease and illness. These posed new challenges to the National Health System.\n\nTherefore, the 2003 law establishes coordination and cooperation of public health authorities as a means to ensure citizens the right to health protection, with the common goal of ensuring equity, quality and social participation National Health System. The law defines a core set of functions common to all of the autonomous health services. Without interfering with the diversity of forms of organization, management and services inherent in a decentralized system, it attempts to establish certain basic, common safeguards throughout the country. This law attempts to establish collaboration of public health authorities with respect to benefits provided, pharmacy, health professionals, research, health information systems, and the overall quality of the health system.\n\nToward these ends, the law created or empowered several specialized organs and agencies, all of which are open to the participation of the autonomous communities. Among these are the Agency of Evaluation of Technologies (\"Agencia de Evaluación de Tecnologías\", Spanish Agency of Medicines and Medical Products (\"Agencia Española de Medicamentos y Productos Sanitarios\"), the Human Resources Committee (\"Comisión de Recursos Humanos\"), the Committee to Assess Health Research (\"Comisión Asesora de Investigación en Salud\"), the Charles III Institute of Health (\"Instituto de Salud Carlos III\"), the Institute of Health Information (\"Instituto de Información Sanitaria\"), the Quality Agency of the National Health System (\"Agencia de Calidad del Sistema Nacional de Salud\") and the Observatory of the National Health System (\"Observatorio del Sistema Nacional de Salud\").\n\nThe basic organ of cohesion is the Interterritorial Council of the Spanish National Health Service (\"Consejo Interterritorial del Servicio Nacional de Salud de España\"), which has great flexibility in decision making, as well as mechanisms to build consensus and to bring together the parties taking such decisions. A system of inspection, the \"Alta Inspección\", assures that accords are followed.\n\nThe Royal Decree-Law 16/2012 was introduced on April 20, 2012. It puts into law severe cuts in the Spanish National Health System, including the following:\n\nThe Ministry of Health and Social Policy develops the policies of the Government of Spain in matters of health, in planning and delivery of services, as well as exercising the purview of the General Administration of the State to assure citizens the right to protection of their health. The ministry has its headquarters on the Paseo del Prado in Madrid, across the street from the Museo del Prado.\n\nThe Royal Decree 1041/2009 of 29 June lays out the basic organic structure of the Spanish Ministry of Health and Social Policy. From the date of that decree, the new ministry assumed the functions of, and superseded the former Ministry of Health and Consumption (\"Ministerio de Sanidad y Consumo\") and Secretary of State for Social Policy, Family, and Attention to Dependency and Disability (\"Secretaría de Estado de Política Social, Familia y Atención a la Dependencia y a la Discapacidad\").\n\nThe objective of this reorganization is to reinforce the role of the single ministry as the instrument of cohesion for the National Health System (SNS), adding to the portfolio of the Secretary General of Health purview in matters of the quality of the SNS by adding to it the Agency of Quality of the National Health System (\"Agencia de Calidad del Sistema Nacional de Salud\") and the General Directorate of Advanced Therapies and Transplants (\"Dirección General de Terapias Avanzadas y Trasplantes\").\n\nThe General Health Law of 1986 created the Interterritorial Council of the Spanish National Health Service (\"Consejo Interterritorial del Servicio Nacional de Salud\", CISNS) as the organ of general coordination in matters related to health between the central State and the autonomous communities who were given authority in health matters under that law. It is jointly composed, and coordinates the basic lines of health policy in matters affecting contracts; acquisition of health and pharmaceutical products, as well as other related goods and services; as well as basic health personnel policies.\n\nThe 2003 Law of Cohesion and Quality of the SNS introduced significant changes in the composition, functioning, and purview of the CISNS. Under this law, the CISNS functions variously as a plenary body, by delegated committees, through technical commissions, and through work groups. It meets as a plenary body at the initiative of its president or at the initiative of one-third of its members; plenary meetings occur at least four times a year. To some extent, this is a formality: resolutions from CISNS commissions are typically adopted by consensus. Cooperation agreements to conduct joint health actions are formalized in CISNS agreements.\n\nUnder the Law of Cohesion, CISNS functions mainly through the adoption of and compliance with joint accords, through the political use of the plenary sessions, with each member making an uncompromising defense of the interests of its region.\n\nPresentations, committees, and working groups have been very important, some more than others. Important committees include: \n\nArticles 69, 70 and 71 of the Law of Cohesion regulate the principal functions of the Interterritorial Council of the SNS. The principal aspects of the Interterritorial Council are:\n\nThe Interterritorial Council is constituted by the Minister of Health and Consumer Affairs [now of Health and Social Policy], who holds its presidency, and by the Councilors with purview over matters of health of the autonomous communities. The vicepresidency of the body will be fulfilled by one of the Councilors with purview over matters of health of the autonomous communities, elected by all of the Councilors who make up the body.\nThe CISNS will come to know, debate among other things, and, as appropriate, make recommendations on the following matters:\nThe prior functions shall be exercised without prejudice to the legislative purview of the Cortes Generales and, as appropriate, the norms of the General Administration of the State; likewise the normal developmental, executive and organizational purview of the autonomous communities.\n\nArticle 41 of the General Health Law establishes that:\nThe State finances, through general taxes, all health benefits and a percentage of pharmaceutical benefits. This tax is shared among the several autonomous communities according to various sharing criteria now that the communities are responsible for health in their respective territories.\n\nEach year the CISNS, after deliberation, establishes the portfolio of services covered by the National Health System, which is published by a Royal Decree of the Ministry of Health. Each autonomous community then establishes its respective portfolio of services, which includes at least the service portfolio of the National Health System.\n\nArticle 42 of the General Health Law sets out that \"ayuntamientos\"—municipal governments—have the following responsibilities with respect to health, without prejudice to the purview of other public administrative bodies:\n\n\nAs a consequence of the decentralization contemplated by the Spanish Constitution, each autonomous community has received adequate transfers to create a Health Service, the administrative structure that manages all of the centers, services and establishments of the community itself, as well as its deputations, municipal governments, and whatever other territorial administrations fall within that community. The Law of Cohesion establishes the Interterritorial Council (CISNS) as the organ of coordination and cooperation of the SNS.\n\nIn the autonomous cities of Ceuta and Melilla the corresponding health services are provided by the National Institute of Health Management, INGESA.\n\nUnder Chapter III of the 1978 Spanish Constitution, all Spanish citizens are beneficiaries of public health services. Concretely, it establishes that:\n\nFurther, the Organic Law 4/2000 (\"Ley Orgánica 4/2000\") establishes the rights and liberties of foreigners resident in Spain. Its effect on the healthcare provision can be seen in the following articles:\n\nArticle 10 of the Law of Cohesion establishes that the financing of the Spanish health system is the responsibility of the autonomous communities in conformity with the accords of transfer and the current system of autonomic financing, notwithstanding the existence of a third party liable to pay. Sufficient financing of services is determined by the resources assigned to the autonomous communities in conformity to what is established in the laws of autonomic financing.\nInclusion of a new service in the catalog of services of the National Health System is accompanied by an economic memo that contains the positive or negative financial impact it is expected to imply. This memo is brought up to the Council of Fiscal Policy and Finance for analysis and approval as to whether to proceed.\n\nPrior to 1986, public financing of health care occurred mostly through highly regressive payroll taxes. In 1986, the law that established the Spanish National Health System also shifted financing toward progressive general taxes and away from payroll taxes. In a 2000 report, the World Health Organization ranked Spain 26th of 191 countries in its fairness in financing.\n\nIn 1999, reform to income tax deductions allowed high income earners to deduct more for private insurance. Although this reform was intended to decrease overconsumption of health care services, it had the side effect of more regressive financing of public health services. Nevertheless, that same year payroll taxes were completely phased out while higher indirect taxes (on excise goods such as alcohol and tobacco) were earmarked for health care.\n\nArticle 57 of the Law of Cohesion establishes that citizens' access to health services will be facilitated by use of an individual health card (\"tarjeta sanitaria individual\"), as the administrative document that accredits its holder and provides certain basic data.\n\nIn order to best facilitate collaboration, quality, and continuity of services, the each card includes a standardized form of basic identification data for the holder, and indicates in which autonomic health service the person is enrolled. In particular, the cards incorporate a digital form of this information; health facilities throughout Spain have appropriate equipment to read the digital information from the cards. A cardholder should thereby be able to access all the services of all relevant health professionals throughout the country.\n\nA patient's clinical history is a medical-legal document that arises from the interactions between health professionals and their clients. From a medical and legal point of view, the clinical history is the only document valid to track this history of interactions. In primary care, where methods of health promotion are important, the clinical history document is sometimes known as a \"health history\" (\"historia de salud\") or \"life history\" (\"historia de vida\").\n\nThe Clinical History of the [Spanish] National Health System (\"Historia Clínica Digital del Sistema Nacional de Salud\", HCDSNS) is intended to guarantee citizens and health professionals access to whatever clinical information is relevant for medical care of a particular patient. This history should be available at all authorized locations, but nowhere else: except as needed for treatment, the information is considered confidential and access is restricted.\n\nThe term \"Health Area\" (Área de Salud) refers to an administrative district that brings together a functional and organizational group of health centers and primary care professionals. A Health Area may be exclusively focused on primary care or may include specialists as well. Some autonomous communities use different term, such as Direction of a sector (\"Dirección de sector\"), or of a comarca, district, department, or other territorial unit used in that autonomous community.\n\nAlthough the autonomous communities differ among themselves in layering subdivisions of their health areas, all eventually come down to a Health Zone (\"Zona de Salud\") or Basic Health Zone (\"Zona Básica de Salud\") as the unit for a primary health care team. In Andalusia, for example, each existing Basic Health Zone takes care of a population between 5,000 and 20,000 inhabitants. The Basic Health Zone is served by a single general hospital and specialists' center.\n\nArticle 12 of the Law of Cohesion establishes the concept of \"primary care,\" the basic level of patient care that guarantees the comprehensiveness and continuity of care throughout the patient's life, acting as manager and coordinator of cases and regulator of issues. Primary care includes health promotion, health education, prevention of illness, health care, maintenance and recuperation of health, as well as physical rehabilitation and social work. Primary health care includes service provided either on-demand, scheduled, or urgently, both in the clinic as well as in the patient's home.\n\nArticle 13 of the Law of Cohesion regulates characteristics of health care offered in Spain by medical specialists, which is provided at the request of primary care physicians. This may be in-patient hospital care or out-patient consultation at specialist centers or day hospitals. It includes care, diagnosis, therapy, rehabilitation and certain preventive care, as well as health promotion, health education and prevention of illness whose nature makes it appropriate to handle at this level. Specialized care guarantees the continuity of integrated patient care once the capabilities of primary care have been exhausted and until matters can be returned to that level. Insofar as patient condition allows, specialized care is offered in out-patient consultation and in day hospitals. As of 2010, Spain recognizes fifty distinct medical specialties.\n\nArticle 14 of the Law of Cohesion defines social-health care (\"atención sociosanitaria\") as the combination of care for those patients, generally those with a chronic illness, whose would benefit from the simultaneous and synergistic provision of health services and social services to increase their personal autonomy, palliate their limitation or hardships, and facilitate their social reinsertion. This group includes:\n\n2000 data from the INE (Spain's National Institute of Statistics) counts 616,232 individuals credentialed by a professional association as health care professionals. The largest number of these are nursing professionals; that is also the profession with the highest percentage of women. The following table is a breakdown of some of the INE statistics. No exact breakdown is available to indicate what number of these might be related to mental health and psychotherapy or clinical psychology.\n\nRoyal Decree 1277/2003, of 10 October, establishes the general bases for authorization of health centers, services and establishments. It defines \"healthcare center\" (\"centro sanitario\") as the organized combination of technical means and installations in which trained professionals, identified by their official certification or professional qualification, undertake basic health care activities with the purpose of improving people's health. These may be integrated into one or more health services, which constitute its healthcare portfolio.\n\nCertain healthcare centers (\"centros sanitarios\") are referred to as \"consultorios\", a term roughly equivalent to British English \"surgery\" or American English \"doctor's office.\" These are offices that, while not full-fledged health centers (\"centros de salud\"), nonetheless provide care beyond primary care. Some terms used are \"consultorios rurales\", \"consultorios locales\", and \"consultorios periféricos\" (respectively, rural, local and \"peripheral\"; that last means a center located in a community other than the main settlement of a municipality), but other terms may exist, analogous to those that refer to various types of health centers.\n\nAccording to the 2008 National Catalog of Hospitals (\"Catálogo Nacional de Hospitales 2008\"), Spain in 2007 had a total of 10,178 \"consultorios\" that allowed health professionals to provide more local services than the health centers in their respective zones, with the purpose of bringing basic services closer to people who reside in nuclei dispersed through rural areas that tend to have an older than average population.\n\nA health center (\"centro de salud\", distinct from the smaller \"healthcare center\" \"centro sanitario\") in Spain's SNS is main physical and functional structure devoted to coordinated global, integral, permanent and continuing primary care, based in a team of health care professionals and other professionals who work there as a team.\n\nHealth centers basically practice the general medicine or family medicine, providing a unity of care in which a specialist in community and family medicine is responsible to provide preventive care, health promotion, diagnosis and basic treatment on an outpatient basis. According to the 2008 National Catalog of Hospitals (\"Catálogo Nacional de Hospitales\"), in 2007 Spain had 2,913 health centers.\n\nSpecialized centers are healthcare centers where different health care professionals provide services to particular group identified by common pathologies, age, or other common characteristics. Among these are:\n\n\n\nSpecialized health care establishments are private centers that provide a suite of health care products, ranging from medicines to sophisticated prostheses. These establishments are grouped by specialty and, on that account, must have accredited or certified technical personnel. Among these establishments are:\n\n\nA hospital is a health care establishment that provides inpatient care and specialized (and other) care, providing such services as are needed in its geographical area. A hospital can be a single structure or a hospital complex, even including branch buildings off of its main campus; it can also integrate any number of specialized centers.\n\nA similar concept to a hospital is a \"clinic\". In Spain, a clinic (\"clínica\") is a health center, typically a private one, where patients can receive health coverage in a broad range of specialties. Some of these clinics include very up-to-date operating theaters capable of providing minimally invasive surgery, and \"hospitalization zones\" where patients can recuperate on an inpatient basis. In large Spanish cities, there are numerous clinics. These are the facilities that are normally used by health care professionals whose medical societies cover it: ASISA, Adeslas, etc.\n\nThe General Health Law of 1986 establishes that the level of specialized care provided in hospitals and their dependent specialty centers will focus care on complex health problems. Hospital centers will develop, besides their functions strictly related to health care, functions of health promotion, prevention of illnesses and investigation and teaching, in accord with the programs of each area of health, with the object of complementing their activities with those developed by the primary care network.\n\nAs elsewhere in the world, the size of hospitals in Spain is often gauged by the number of \"installed beds\" (\"camas instaladas\"). This is the number of hospital beds with fixed locations; at any given time, some beds may be out of commission.\n\nGeneral hospitals treat a broad range of pathologies and typically provide services including surgery, obstetrics and gynecology, and pediatrics. Other hospitals are more specialized. The following list includes most of the common types of specialized hospitals in Spain, but is not intended to be exhaustive.\n\n\nSpanish government-run healthcare administrations sign health care contracts (\"conciertos sanitarios\") with privately run entities that provide health care services. They are regulated by the provisions of the General Health Law and the current rules of government contracting. There are some special cases where the relation between the hospital and the managing entity is regulated by a special arrangement called a \"Convenio de Vinculación\" or \"Convenio Singular\" (\"Linkage Convention\" or \"Singluar Convention\"). In Catalonia there are also centers integrated into the Network of Hospitals for Public Use (Red de Hospitales de Utilización Pública, XHUP) as outlined in the supplement to Decree 124/2008 of the Department of Health of the Autonomous Government of Catalonia (\"Anexo del Decreto 124/2008 del Departamento de Salud de la Generalitat de Catalunya\").\n\nThe patrimonial dependency (\"dependencia patrimonial\") of a hospital (or other health care facility) is the individual or other juridical entity that owns, at least, the building occupied by the facility. Hospitals that are under the dependency of Spanish Social Security belong primarily to the General Treasury of Social Security, although there is a special group within Social Security for the Mutuals of Accidents and Occupational Diseases (\"Mutuas de Accidentes de Trabajo y Enfermedades Profesionales\", MATEP). There are also a few cases where patrimony is shared by two or more public entities on a consortium basis.\n\nThe 2009 National Catalog of Hospitals contains information about the patrimonial dependency of hospitals, summarized as follows; hospital complexes are each counted here as a single hospital:\n\n40 percent of stays in private hospitals are arranged and paid for by the public system.\n\nThe 2008 National Catalog of Hospitals gives the following breakdown of types of hospitals.\n\nHealth care centers, principally hospitals and specialty centers, have high technology capabilities used primarily to perform better patient diagnoses. The following breakdown of such facilities is based on the 2008 National Catalog of Hospitals.\n\nArticle 7 of the Law of Cohesion establishes the catalog of services of the National Health System, with the object of guaranteeing the basic and common conditions for an adequate level of integrated, continuous health care. Health care services include prevention, diagnosis, therapy and rehabilitation, as well as promotion and maintenance of citizens' health.\n\nArticle 11 of the law establishes the basic lines of public health services:\n\n\nPrimary care services constitute the majority of the services of the SNS; this is true of health promotion and education, prevention of illness, hands-on health care, health maintenance, recuperation, rehabilitation, and social work.\n\nThe following catalog demonstrates preventive activities, health promotion and education, family care and community care as performed in primary care centers.\n\nAt times, patients will require specialized health care services. These may be provided in external consultations, day hospitals, or on an inpatient basis.\n\nExamples of specialized services are intensive and critical care, anesthesia, defibrillation, but also some forms of hemotherapy, rehabilitation, and even nutrition, diet, post-partum treatment, and family planning, especially assisted reproductive technology. Specialized treatment can also be involved in detecation, prescription and implementation of diagnostic and therapeutic procedures, especially those related to prenatal diagnosis in risk groups, diagnosis by imaging, interventionist radiology, hemodynamics, nuclear medicine, neurophysiology, endoscopy, lab tests, biopsies, radiotherapy, radiosurgery, renal lithotripsy, dialysis, techniques of respiratory therapy, organ transplants and other tissue and cell transplants.\n\nEmergency medicine is health care provided in cases where emergency care is needed. Emergency medicine is practiced both in healthcare facilities and at the site of work accidents, traffic accidents, etc. or in the home of a patient whose condition prevents them from getting to a healthcare facility. Emergency medicine is a 24-hour-a-day service provided, in particular, by physicians and other medical professionals in hospital emergency rooms, but also in ambulances, medical evacuation helicopters, etc. \"en route\" to such facilities.\n\nMedications in Spain are regulated under Law 29/2006 of 26 July, of guarantees and rational use of medications and health care products (\"Ley 29/2006, de 26 de julio, de garantías y uso racional de los medicamentos y productos sanitarios\"). One of the SNS's priorities with respect to pharmaceuticals is to teach patients to make rational use of medications and to avoid, insofar as possible, unsupervised self-medication.\n\nPharmaceutical services include medications and health products are provided to patients according to their clinical needs, in precise doses and over an adequate period at the least cost possible. Medications are dispensed by pharmacies, each of which is headed by a licensed pharmacist.\n\nAll medications to be prescribed to patients must either be authorized and registered by the Spanish Agency of Medications and Health Care Products (\"Agencia Española de Medicamentos y Productos Sanitarios\"), or must be formulations prepared by licensed pharmacists. Exceptions to this requirement are cosmetics, dietetic products, dental products and other sanitary products, as well as drugs classified as advertising, homeopathic medicines, and articles and accessories advertised to the general public and where the purchaser pays the full price (that is, no money comes from SNS-related sources).\nSpanish patients make a copayment when they acquire pharmaceuticals. The distribution of the cost is as follows:\n\n\nOrthoprosthetic services can be permanent surgically implanted prostheses, external prostheses, special orthoses and prostheses including hearing aids and earmolds for children up to age 16 suffering from bilateral hearing impairments.\n\n\"Complementary services\" include complex dietary therapies, vehicles for invalids, and home oxygen therapy.\n\nThe health care transport infrastructure transports people who are ill, accident victims, or otherwise in need of medical attention. It includes ambulances, as well as air ambulances: helicopters and airplanes whose interiors are specially modified for the purpose. For most purposes, of course, ground transport is preferred, but sometimes distances or the difficulty of reaching particular locations make air transport more practical.\n\nAccording to data from the National Institute of Statistics (\"Instituto Nacional de Estadística\", INE), as of January 1, 2018, Spain has a population of 46,659,302, of whom 22,882,286 (49,04%) are male and 23,777,015 (50.96%) female. In recent years, this population has been increasing slowly but progressively. In the last decade, the increase has been largely through immigration: 4,572,055 Spanish residents are foreigners.\n\nThese numbers count only citizens and legal immigrants. The health care system must also provide services for thousands of illegal immigrants and for the many tourists who visit Spain each year.\n\nAnalysis of the population pyramid shows that\n\n\nThis structure is typical of a modern demographic regimen, with an evolution toward an aging population and a declining birth rate. This means that Spain has to expect an increase in use of the services that are targeted at older adults. This effect is further exacerbated by a steadily increasing life expectancy.\n\n"}
{"id": "44057972", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44057972", "title": "Sports for Sharing", "text": "Sports for Sharing\n\nSports for Sharing is a civic education program that uses sports and games to form better citizens from childhood. Based on the idea of learning through play and the United Nation's Millennium Development Goals, Sports for Sharing aims to teach children empathy, social awareness and how they can be empowered to create positive change in the world. As a Washington, D.C.-based nonprofit, Sports for Sharing currently operates in 5 D.C. elementary schools.\n\nSports for Sharing is the American launch of the Mexico-based Deportes para-Compartir. Founded in 2007 by Dina Buchbinder Auron as the main program of the AMNU, Deportes para-Compartir has expanded successfully to 26 Mexican states and over 114,000 beneficiaries. Derived from the Canadian program, Sport in a Box, founded in 2005 by the United Nations Association in Canada.\n"}
{"id": "34825140", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34825140", "title": "Veteran Health Identification Card", "text": "Veteran Health Identification Card\n\nThe Veteran Health Identification Card (VHIC) is an identification card issued by the United States Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) for eligible veterans to receive medical care at VA Medical Facilities. The VHIC protects the privacy of veterans' sensitive information, as it no longer displays the Social Security number or date of birth on the front of the card. The VHIC will only display the veteran's name, picture, and special eligibility indicators—Service Connected, Purple Heart and former POW, if applicable, on the front of the card. Only veterans who are eligible for VA medical benefits will receive the card.\n\nThe only purpose of the card is for identification and check-in for VA appointments at VA Medical Centers (VAMC), outpatient clinics (OPC) and community based outpatient clinics (CBOC). The VHIC cannot be used as a credit card or an insurance card, and it does not authorize or pay for care at non-VA facilities.\n\nIn 2014 the Veterans Administration established a newly designed Veterans Health Identification Card (VHIC) to replace the legacy Veterans Identification Card (VIC). The new Veterans Health Identification Card comes with additional security features and a different look and feel, replaced the old Veteran Identification Card, first issued in 2004. The new cards will protect against identity theft and will be personalized with the emblem of the veteran’s branch of service. Other new features add \"VA\" in braille, to help visually impaired veterans, along with VA phone numbers and emergency-care instructions.\n\nMost veterans who enlisted after September 7, 1980, or entered active duty after October 16, 1981, must have served 24 continuous months or the full period for which they were called to active duty in order to be eligible. This minimum duty requirement may not apply to veterans who were discharged for a disability incurred or aggravated in the line of duty, for a hardship or \"early out\", or those who served prior to September 7, 1980. Since there are a number of other exceptions to the minimum duty requirements, VA encourages all veterans to apply so that they may determine their enrollment eligibility.\n\n\n\n\nIn September 2011, the Veterans ID Card Act, HR 2985, was introduced by US Congressmen Todd Akin, and Silvestre Reyes. The bill would allow the VA to issue photo identification cards to veterans who are not retirees but who also do not presently receive VA medical benefits.\n\nOther jurisdictions at state, county and municipal levels have also created their own identification card schemes for easier veteran access to discounts and other benefits within the jurisdiction. In most states, including Washington, D.C. and Puerto Rico, a person's driver's license or state identification card may optionally carry a veteran status identifier.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "489930", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=489930", "title": "Viktor Schauberger", "text": "Viktor Schauberger\n\nViktor Schauberger (30 June 1885 in Holzschlag, Upper Austria – 25 September 1958 in Linz, Austria) was an Austrian forest caretaker, naturalist, parascientist, philosopher, inventor and biomimicry experimenter.\n\nSchauberger developed his own ideas based on what he observed in nature. In \"Implosion\" magazine, a magazine released by Schauberger's family, he said that aeronautical and marine engineers had incorrectly designed the propeller. He stated:\nAs best demonstrated by Nature in the case of the aerofoil maple-seed, today’s propeller is a pressure-screw and therefore a braking screw, whose purpose is to allow the heavy maple-seed to fall parachute-like slowly towards the ground and to be carried away sideways by the wind in the process. No bird has such a whirling thing on its head, nor a fish on its tail. Only man made use of this natural brake-screw for forward propulsion. As the propeller rotates, so does the resistance rise by the square of the rotational velocity. This is also a sign that this supposed propulsive device is unnaturally constructed and therefore out of place.\n\nIn 1930, \"Tragendes Wasser\" was filmed, showing the functioning of the log flumes. \n\nNature Was My Teacher, narrated by Tom Brown (1993, Borderland Science Research Foundation) \n\nSacred Living Geometry: The Enlightened Environmental Theories of Viktor Schauberger, narrated by Callum Coats (1995, Talkstudio)\n\nExtraordinary Nature of Water, narrated by Callum Coats (2000, Filmstream)\n\nViktor Schauberger: Comprehend and Copy Nature, directed by Franz Fitzke (2007, Schauberger Verlag) \n\nSchauberger, Viktor: Unsere sinnlose Arbeit - Die Quelle der Weltkrise, Der Aufbau durch Atomverwandlung, nicht Atomzertrümmerung (1933, Krystall-Verlag GmbH, 2001, Jörg Schauberger, ) (Released in English as \"Our Senseless Toil - The Cause of the World Crisis - Progress Through Transformation of the Atom - Not its destruction!\")\n\nAndersson, Olof: Living Water: Viktor Schauberger and the Secrets of Natural Energy (2002, Gateway Books, )\n\nSchauberger, Viktor & Coats, Callum: Eco-Technology 1: The Water Wizard - The Extraordinary Properties of Natural Water (1998, Gateway Books, )\n\nSchauberger, Viktor & Coats, Callum: Eco-Technology 2: Nature as Teacher - New Principles in the Working of Nature (1999, Gateway Books, )\n\nSchauberger, Viktor & Coats, Callum: Eco-Technology 3: The Fertile Earth - Nature's Energies in Agriculture, Soil Fertilisation and Forestry (1999, Gateway Books, )\n\nSchauberger, Viktor & Coats, Callum: Eco-Technology 4: Energy Evolution - Harnessing Free Energy from Nature (2000, Gateway Books, )\n\nCoats, Callum: Living Energies: An Exposition of Concepts Related to the Theories of Viktor Schauberger (1996, 2001, Gateway Books, , )\n\nCobbald, Jane: Viktor Schauberger: A Life of Learning from Nature (2006, Floris Books, )\n\nBartholomew, Alick: Hidden Nature: The Startling Insights of Viktor Schauberger (2004, Floris Books, ) \n\n"}
{"id": "142018", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=142018", "title": "WWT London Wetland Centre", "text": "WWT London Wetland Centre\n\nWWT London Wetland Centre is a wetland reserve managed by the Wildfowl and Wetlands Trust in the Barnes area of the London Borough of Richmond upon Thames, southwest London, England, by Barn Elms. The site is formed of four disused Victorian reservoirs tucked into a loop in the Thames.\n\nThe centre first opened in 2000, and in 2002 an area of 29.9 hectares was designated a Site of Special Scientific Interest as the \"Barn Elms Wetland Centre\".\n\nThe centre occupies more than 100 acres (40 hectares) of land which was formerly occupied by several small reservoirs. These were converted into a wide range of wetland features and habitats before the centre opened in May 2000. It was the first urban project of its kind in the United Kingdom.\n\nMany wild birds which have now made their home in the Centre cannot be found anywhere else in London, and there are nationally significant numbers of gadwall and northern shoveler. Other wild birds include Eurasian bittern, northern pintail, northern lapwing, water rail, rose-ringed parakeet, Eurasian sparrowhawk, sand martin, common kingfisher, little grebe and great crested grebe. The centre also holds a collection of captive wildfowl.\n\nIt is host to regular lectures and events concerned with preserving Britain's wetland animals, and was featured on the BBC television programme Seven Natural Wonders in 2005 as one of the wonders of the London area, with a focus on the region's parakeets, in an episode presented by Bill Oddie. The site contains a large visitors' building which is occasionally used as a wedding venue.\n\nIn 2012 London Wetland Centre was voted Britain's Favourite Nature Reserve in the BBC Countryfile Magazine Awards.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12147255", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12147255", "title": "Waitakere Hospital", "text": "Waitakere Hospital\n\nWaitakere Hospital is a general hospital located in the Henderson/Lincoln suburb area of Waitakere City, part of the Auckland area of New Zealand. It is administered by the Waitemata District Health Board and provides health services to approximately 560,000 residents throughout North Shore, Waitakere and Rodney districts of Auckland. It has 76 medical beds and 6 coronary care beds, a maternity unit and a surgical unit with 2 operating theatres. The hospital’s Emergency Department is open to both adult and paediatric patients 24 hours a day, seven days a week.\n\nIn 1945 the original Waitakere Maternity Hospital was a small building in Te Atatu. The idea of a new hospital was raised that year, but it was another ten years before a site was found for the ‘North Western Hospital’.In the ensuing years a geriatric block was built and the site also became a base for community home health and support services, child disability services and for health services to school children - public health nurses, hearing and vision testing, school dental services.\n\nHealthWest, a private primary health provider, was as of 2006 in negotiations with the hospital to be allowed to provide fee-paying patients with medical services in the hospital. While this proposed measure did not go forward as of mid-2007, it highlighted the fact that even after the NZ$60 million upgrading to general hospital status, the facility was still facing shortages, like many other public health facilities in New Zealand. In the first five months of 2008, the emergency department of the hospital was forced into partial closure 52 times, and has still not officially become a 24/7 facility. This is being blamed on short-staffing and financial constraints of the Waitemata District Health Board.\n\n"}
{"id": "17393733", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17393733", "title": "Western Corridor Recycled Water Scheme", "text": "Western Corridor Recycled Water Scheme\n\nThe Western Corridor Recycled Water Scheme, a recycled water project, is located in the South East region of Queensland in Australia. The scheme that is managed by WaterSecure is a key part of the SEQ Water Grid constructed by the Queensland Government in response to population growth, climate change and severe drought. The 2.5 billion project is reported as the largest recycled water project in Australia.\n\nThe Western Corridor is the area from Brisbane's south west suburbs towards the city of Ipswich. For many years the corridor has experienced significant population growth with the development of the suburb of Springfield and the resultante extension of the Centenary Highway and the upgrade to the Ipswich Motorway.\n\nThe scheme involved the construction of three advanced water treatment plants constructed at Bundamba, Luggage Point and Gibson Island, which draw water from six existing wastewater treatment plants in the region to produce up to of purified recycled water daily. The water is distributed via a network of pipelines measuring more than in length. Construction began on the Recycled Water Project in 2006 and completed in late 2008. 408 million of funding was provided by the Australian Government via its Water Smart Australia Program.\n\nIn Stage 1 of the project the scheme has provided an alternative water source for Swanbank Power Station and both Tarong Power Station and Tarong North Power Station. Supplies to Swanbank started in 2007 and supplies to Tarong and Tarong North started in June 2008.\n\nThe system has the capacity to provide water to other industrial users, agricultural users and to supplement drinking water supplies in Wivenhoe Dam. Testing of the pipeline to Wivenhoe Dam has been conducted, however in November 2008, Premier Anna Bligh declared that recycled water will not enter the dam unless levels drop to below 40%. As of May 2009, the three power stations are the main customers of the recycled water, consuming per day.\n\nSince coming online in August 2007, through to July 2010, the Western Corridor Recycled Water Scheme has supplied more than of water into the SEQ Water Grid.\n\nIn January 2013 it was reported that the Newman government was considering shutting down part or all of the scheme. In September 2013, former Premier Peter Beattie admitted that the scheme was a \"tragic error of judgment\" in the way that the Bligh government handled the creation of the water grid.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54020704", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54020704", "title": "World Conference on Women, 1985", "text": "World Conference on Women, 1985\n\nThe World Conference on Women, 1985 or the Third World Conference on Women took place between 15 and 26 July 1985 in Nairobi, Kenya, as the end-decade assessment of progress and failure in implementing the goals established by the World Plan of Action from the 1975 inaugural conference on women as modified by the World Programme of Action of the second conference. Of significance during the conference was the end result of the Forward-looking Strategies for the Advancement of Women being adopted by consensus, unlike the previous two conferences. The conference marked the first time that lesbian rights were introduced in a UN official meeting and the turning-point for violence against women to emerge from being a hidden topic into one which needed to be addressed. Recognizing that the goals of the Decade for Women had not been met, the conference recommended and the General Assembly approved on-going evaluation of women's achievements and failures through the year 2000.\n\nIn 1975, the United Nations approved the celebration of International Women's Year. As part of the celebrations they held the First World Conference on Women in 1975 in Mexico City. At that meeting, it was proposed that the following decade be proclaimed UN Decade for Women and follow-up meetings to assess progress be held in 1980 and 1985. The General Assembly adopted a World Plan of Action with recommended targets for governments to integrate women's equality, development and participation in peace initiatives. The mid-point meeting was held in Copenhagen, adding sections to the revised Programme of Action devoted to ensuring women equal access to education, employment opportunities, and adequate health care. Both of the previous conferences had struggled with the divide caused by Cold War politics and the needs of the developing world. The geopolitical backdrop entering into the third conference was still contentious with a worldwide debt crisis soaring in Africa and Latin America, protectionist policies under Margaret Thatcher and Ronald Reagan causing widespread uncertainty, stagnation of the USSR, the arms race build up, and the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan. The question would be whether the conference could remain focused on women's issues in the face of Soviet accusations that the United States imperialistic and war mongering tactics were undermining the goals of the Decade for Women and the US concerns that the Eastern Bloc attempts at politicization would derail any real improvement in the unique problems faced by women.\n\nThe 1985 Conference held from 15 and 26 July in Nairobi, Kenya was the final review of the decade and was led by conference president Margaret Kenyatta. Leticia Shahani, widowed mother of three children and a Philippine diplomat served as the Secretary-General and made the crucial suggestion that off-the-record discussion by delegates would decrease the polarity which had plagued the previous conferences and would allow a more open discussion and lead to compromise. There were 157 countries represented with around 1,400 official delegates, including such prominent delegates as: Phoebe Asiyo of Kenya; Ylva Ericsson of Sweden; Saida Hassan of Djibouti; of Bulgaria; Carolyn McAskie an official at the Canadian International Development Agency; Maureen O'Neill head of the Canadian delegation, who was the coordinator for the Minister of Status of Women; Maureen Reagan, daughter of the US president; Yvette Roudy, the French Minister of Women's Rights; Jean Spautz of Luxembourg; Tom Vraalsen of Norway; among others.\n\nAfter opening remarks by Javier Pérez de Cuéllar, Secretary-General of the United Nations, Kenyan President Daniel arap Moi welcomed participants, expressing his hope that the conference would prove successful and that the objectives for women would not be obscured by distractions. Opening remarks by Margaret Kenyatta on the history of the conference were followed by the general discussion. The general session discussed that women ought to be able to live securely under conditions which granted them equality and justice, but there was a recognition that time is required to change traditional views and make people aware of needed change. It was noted that though legal equality had significantly improved, the disparity between the legal reality and practice was still broad. It was discussed that political tension and instability, as well as conflict added to curtailment of advancement, as did colonialism, racism, and economic stagnation. The conference noted gains in developed nations for parity of education, but significant gaps in girls education versus boys education in developing nations, which impacted future employment options as well. Though some progress had been made on women's employment, it was noted that wage gaps, higher unemployment for women than men, and child care services all contributed to women's instability. As for health, it was acknowledged that as women were typically the health care providers for their families, that more effort must be made to ensure that women were healthy to allow them to continue to serve their families. Inadequate education and health facilities, combined with high birth rates and customs or laws that allowed women to control their own fertility were continuing issues.\n\nProjects throughout the decade had drawn awareness to the need to advance women's opportunities and statistic gathering had improved to measure their progress or lack of advancement. Violence against women was a prevalent problem as was the insecurity of indigenous women, elderly women, migrant and refugee women and their children, and rural women. Water and food uncertainty needed to be addressed as women in many areas devoted the majority of their time into unpaid labors to maintain their families. Many UN programs had been expanded over the Decade for Women to incorporate women into their development programs, though it was noted that in general women's participation, and even employment in UN agencies though improved was still below targets. Programs directed at agriculture, economics, children, development, housing, health, technology and many others were examined and overall, improvement had been made in the inclusion of women's access. However, it was noted that making provisions for equality was not the same as attaining real equal opportunity. It was agreed that the cultural role in maintaining sexism and sex stereotypes was a complex issue which would involve dedicated effort to change school curricula and transform media messaging to enable women real access to socio-economic, cultural, legal and political parity. It was noted that for the first time, lesbian rights were introduced at an official UN conference by the Dutch delegate, Annelien Kappeyne van de Coppello.\n\nThe first committee, under the chair Cecilia López of Colombia, with vice-chairs, Kulsum Saifullah of Pakistan, Olimpia Solomonescu of Romania, and Laetitia van den Assum of the Netherlands, with Rapporteur Diaroumeye Gany of Niger, discussed the first three chapters of the draft \"Forward-looking Strategies for the Advancement of Women\". The second committee, under the chair Rosario Manalo of the Philippines, with vice-chairs, Dame Billie Miller of Barbados, Konjit SineGiorgis of Ethiopia, and Eva Szilagyi of Hungary, with Rapporteur Helen Ware of Australia, discussed the remaining chapters of the Strategies. Both committees recommended approving the draft and a discussion with the general session followed with a line by line review of the document. Though both committees evaluated a number of draft resolutions, there was inadequate time for the general session to review the resolutions and no formal action was taken upon them.\n\nDame Nita Barrow of Barbados chaired and organized the Forum, with the assistance of Edith Ballantyne, president of the United Nations' Conference of Non-governmental Organizations (CONGO). It was attended by more than 15,000 people, of which 60% were representatives from non-industrialized nations, and was held at the University of Nairobi. Unlike the facilities in Copenhagen, in Kenya, a kindergarten was set up for delegates' children. A Peace Tent was set up on the lawn of the university and hosted sessions about conflict and its impact of war on women. Among prominent attendees were: Charlotte Bunch, a US lesbian activist ; Betty Friedan, founder of the National Organization for Women (NOW); Eddah Gachukia head of the Kenyan NGO committee; and others.\n\nIn addition to the basic themes of the official session, the Forum was asked to address issues concerning women who were poor, elderly, migrant or refugees, youth and address women in media. Round table discussions, workshops and two plenary sessions were established. The array of topics discussed in formal and impromptu meetings was vast, including such topics as childcare; consumer education; credit; family planning; female genital mutilation; the growth of women's studies; legal rights; literacy; media portrayals of women; motherhood and development programs for families; political prisoners; prostitution; systemic discrimination against women; violence; women and development; women and religion; women and technology; as well as lesbian workshops and many other topics in some 1200 workshops scheduled throughout the duration of the conference. The lesbian workshops were the \"first public discussion of lesbianism in Kenya\" and resulted in a lesbian press conference in which it was acknowledged that lesbianism wasn't a Westernized concept, but instead effected women's rights throughout the globe. It also resulted in a proposal from one of the Dutch representatives for lesbian rights to be addressed in the official conference documents. In a workshop on development, Helen Safa brought forward the idea that \"Gender and Development\" (GAD) should replace the former strategy \"Women in Development\" (WID) used by the United Nations Commission on the Status of Women (CSW). This mirrored the NGO, Development Alternatives with Women for a New Era (DAWN)'s belief that WID simply tried to insert women into existing systems without reducing or changing their paternal nature. They recommended that GAD, a strategic long-term planning method, become the new standard, which focused on designing systems specifically related to women and their growth.\n\nIn addition to the workshops, women were invited to participate in a number of cultural events like the Nairobi Film Forum which showed films and videos by and about women and gave workshops; exhibitions of art and photography; folklore workshops; concerts; martial arts classes; field trips to local villages. Because of the favorable climate conditions, women were able to gather in the open-air for a variety of both scheduled and unscheduled functions to build networks with other participants. The Forum after 1985 shifted in a way that reflected the divide between progressivism versus conservatism, as opposed to the polarized capitalist-socialist divide which had split prior conferences. It was recognized by the participants that global problems were women's issues, but that within their governmental systems, there was either a desire to promote or curtail change. A fundamental shift occurred which recognized that no matter the system, women were subordinate and that promoting a world view from women's perspectives allowed them to transcend their differences and focus on the commonalities they shared. For example, aboriginal women recognized that where ever they were from, they battled for indigenous land rights; Arab and Israeli women discussed the need for peace; women lawyers whether from Islamic countries in South Asia or Catholic countries in Latin America recognized the struggle for women's rights under patriarchal religious systems.\n\nForward-looking Strategies for the Advancement of Women was adopted by consensus because of a strategy developed which allowed delegates to express reservations on the basis of individual paragraphs, rather than of the document as a whole. Because of stronger transnational relationships had been forged by the previous two conferences increased understanding by governments of the needs of their women constituents, a willingness of donors to help women integrate into development and increased effectiveness of NGOs in their activism, the list of topics covered in the Strategies was more extensive, including topics such as: agriculture, communications, constitutional and legal issues, education, employment, energy needs, environmental and water concerns, food security, health, housing, science and technology, social services, social and political equality as well as increased participation. The major themes development, equality, and peace were retained as were focuses on racism and refugees. The document endorsed new strategies moving to the year 2000 and replaced the words Apartheid and Zionism with the more general term racism, to maintain the focus on women rather than polarizing issues.\n\nOut of the conference forum, several women's groups emerged that would become influential: Asian-Pacific Forum on Women, Law and Development (APWLD), Comité de América Latina y El Caribe para la Defensa de los Derechos de la Mujer (CLADEM), Women in Law and Development in Africa (WILDAF), and the Tanzania Media Women's Association. These were indicative of the types of exponential growth in NGOs dealing with women and their issues which were founded after the conference ended. Many of the organizations were information-sharing groups which pooled their resources and strategies to create innovative solutions. These networks, shifted the flow of activism and scholarship from the global North toward the Southern hemispheres and from top-down social structures to those which forge coalitions across cultural, racial and social boundaries. The conference also marked a turning point in the silence regarding violence against women, which would ultimately lead to the passage of the Declaration on the Elimination of Violence Against Women in 1993. Since the objectives of the Decade for Women had not achieved the goals set out in 1975, the United Nations General Assembly made a decision after Nairobi to conduct world surveys on women every five years in a continuing effort to follow-up on the implementation of the Strategies for women. One of the most important outcomes was moving women out of obscurity and establishing specific mechanisms for measuring women's progress.\n\n"}
