{"id": "4319671", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4319671", "title": "Acid Survivors Foundation", "text": "Acid Survivors Foundation\n\nThe Acid Survivors Foundation is a Bangladeshi Non-Government organisation dedicated to raising awareness and preventing acid attacks and providing survivors with medical and legal aid. \n\nThe Foundation was founded by Group of four concerned citizens namely i) Mr. Kazi Fazlur Rahman, former adviser to the caretaker president. ii) Dr. S. L. Sen, Plastic Surgeon. iii) Advocate Sigma Huda & iv) Mr. Selim Ahmed on 12 May 1999 with substantial support from UNICEF and the Canadian International Development Agency. Nasreen Huq a commanding personality in the field of social reform and human rights in Bangladesh campaigned internationally for ASF. In 2005, Monira Rahman the Ex-Executive Director of ASF was awarded the Human Rights Award by Amnesty International.\n\nBangladesh's ASF has subsequently been used as a model organisation for the establishment of ASFs in Uganda, Cambodia, and Pakistan, all of which are sustained by Acid Survivors Trust International (ASTI) also headed by Sir John Morrison.\n\nUpon its establishment the ASF worked in collaboration with BRAC to develop a nationwide notification system to identify acid attacks within 24-hours. Within 48-hours the situation is to be investigated and the victim brought to the ASF hospital in Dhaka. A 24/7 hotline is also maintained, which allows attacks to be reported and victims to be transferred to the ASF hospital. The NRS also allows government agencies, NGOs, & the media to stay informed.\n\nAcid attack victims require specialised treatments including reconstructive plastic surgery, physiotherapy, and the application of pressure garments. Patients usually need specialised treatment for the eye, ear, nose, mouth, neck, and/or other body parts. Other injuries and health conditions including fractures, diabetes, pregnancy, etc. will affect the course of treatment procedure.\n\nUpon ASF's inception in 1999, the Dhaka Medical College Hospital (DMCH), with its 8-bed burn unit, was the only hospital in Bangladesh that specialised in treating any form of burn injury. To partially rectify the situation, ASF, with the help of the British High Commission and British Women's Association started a 20-bed Burn Rehabilitation Center in November 1999, which has become known as informally as Thikana (meaning destination in Bengali).\n\nThe permanently damaging nature of acid attacks and the inefficiency of the Bangladesh justice system are a serious and sometimes permanent detriment to the psychological health of survivors and their families. This can result in the development of psychiatric conditions, including post-traumatic stress disorder and suicidal tendencies, needingspecialized psychiatric care. However, DMCH is currently the only hospital in Bangladesh with a clinical psychology department.\n\nConsequently, ASF provides bed-side and community psychological support to help victims and their families overcome the trauma of the attack. ASF currently has one clinical psychologist and two peer counselors at its hospital to provide counselling and psycho-therapeutic services. ASF also organises music and art therapy in its hospital to help patients express their emotions.\n\nAttacks will temporarily removes one's capacity for work or study. This capacity can be rebuilt following treatment through rehabilitation and reintegration techniques.\n\nASF statistics have shown that 46% of perpetrators are someone close to the victim. About 26% are husbands and 20% are other family members. Therefore, many victims of acid violence are unable to return to their families; however, some are compelled to regardless due to a lack of an income source.\n\nThe Department of Social Welfare and both National and District Acid Control Councils have funds that provide interest free loans to survivors. ASF is continuously working with its partners and survivors to ensure that these funds are effectively used for benefit of acid survivors. Microfinancing is often not an option as acid survivors fall into a high risk category for investment. They initially do not have a regular source of income and do not feel confident about repayment of loans.\n\nASF works to rehabilitate its patients through the use of the following measures:\n\nASF advocates to ensure that survivors' legal rights are met. ASF's advocacy campaigns directly involve survivors as spokespersons for change. This allows campaigns to hold more clout and give survivors more self-confidence. ASF also lobbies with the government, NGOs, business organisations, and other agencies to provide rehabilitation support for survivors.\n\nTo ensure that survivors are in a position to act as spokespersons, they will need to have secured livelihoods. As such, ASF compliments government efforts by providing rehabilitation support to survivors through social protection and other schemes, which enable survivors to establish a secured livelihood and successfully reintegration into mainstream society.\n\nASF also provides emergency financial support to victim's who are the sole breadwinner of their family and provides education support to encourage survivors to continue primary and secondary schooling.\n\nThe effective prevention of acid violence can only be ensured if all perpetrators are brought to justice and the state can effectively control the illegal use of acid.\n\nPrior to 2002 acid related offences were primarily dealt with using The Prevention of Oppression Against Women and Children Act of 2000. ASF along with other humans' rights organisations, social activists, and pressure groups advocated for the introduction of new laws to combat acid offences specifically. ASF, the newspaper Prothom Alo, and BRAC on International Women's Day mobilised over 5000 people to march alongside 100 acid attack survivors as a campaign for new laws.\n\nASF's efforts have resulted in the creation of two laws on 17 April 2002: the Acid Crime Control Act (ACCA) and the Acid Control Act (ACA), making it the first country in the world to have specific laws against acid attacks.\n\nASF provides legal support for survivors by referring them to its legal partners including BRAC, Aino Salish Kendro (ASK), the Bangladesh National Women Lawyer's Association (BNWLA), and the Bangladesh Legal Aid Services and Trust (BLAST). ASF's case managers prepare case reports of each survivor as they are admitted in the ASF Hospital and then provide legal advice to both survivors and their family. While the legal partners pursue court cases for each survivor, ASF's case managers monitor the role of the police and public prosecutors to ensure the utmost concern is given.\n\nBangladesh has the highest reported incidence of acid violence in the world. In Bangladesh, acid violence is largely a gender-discriminatory crime against women. Since its inception, ASF has worked to create successful prevention campaigns which have led to significant reductions in acid attacks. ASF runs local and national prevention campaigns using radio, television, and print to bring the issue into public attention.\n\nASF has organised various school and college campaigns to motivate students into taking an active role in preventing of acid violence in their communities. The campaigns also help raise awareness as to the causes of acid violence, which will engender a change in attitude towards women and human relationships. The campaigns also work to sensitise youth to the social rehabilitation needs of victims and to encourage youth not to discriminate against students with scars and disfigurements. Students are also informed as to the proper procedure for dealing with acid attacks.\n\nASF's community meetings involve survivors' families, community leaders, and representatives of the local government with the purpose of making them aware of the consequences of acid violence as well as the psycho-social struggles of survivors. Plans to accelerate community acceptance of survivors, ensure social protection, and promote favourable environments for healing are also discussed.\n\nASF has taken great measures to raise awareness as to the importance of using water immediately after an attack. Information is given to do the following if any part of the body is exposed to acid or if acid is swallowed:\n\n21 June 2011, British Minister of State for the Department of International Development Alan Duncan visits the ASF hospital and interacts with survivors. He also met with the Prime Minister to request the securing of a plot of land where the British Government would help ASF build an \"ASF Burn Complex\". The reduction in the number of acid related burn c\nases has been in proportion to increasing reports of kerosene and gas attacks. Bangladesh has a single 100-bed facility for treating all these cases, which ASF and the Department of International Development both agree is not sufficient.\n\n1 March 2011, HRH Princess Anna visits ASF for the second time (the first being in 2000), where she witnessed the rehabilitation centre in action and interacted with some victims.\n\n17 February 2011, the English Cricket Team visits ASF, where they interacted with victims.\n\n10 December 2011, ASF receives the prize from the French Human Rights Commission at a ceremony held at the Quai d'Orsay in Paris.\n\n28 April 2011, Dr. Monira Rahman, Murhabazi Namegabe, and Cecilia Flores-Oebanda are honoured as the Children's Rights Heroes for millions of children at the Gripsholm Castle in Mariefred, Sweden.\n\n"}
{"id": "57791124", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57791124", "title": "Adenosine deaminase 2 deficiency", "text": "Adenosine deaminase 2 deficiency\n\nAdenosine deaminase 2 deficiency is a vasculitis syndrome. It is due to mutations in the ADA2 gene which encodes the adenosine deaminase 2 protein. The clinical features of this condition are protean and it may be easily missed.\n\nThe ADA2 gene is located in the long arm of chromosome 22 (22q11.1).\n\nOver 60 pathogenic mutations have been recognised in ADA2. In all clinical cases to date both copies of the gene have been mutated implying a recessive inheritance.\n\nThis is a rare condition with less than 200 cases reported.\n\nThe age of onset of symptoms is variable: 24% of reported patients present before 1 year of age. 77% present before the age 10 years. Adult onset has also been described. 5-10% die from this disease by the age of 30 years.\n\nLike all vasculitis syndromes the features depend on which is organ is involved. Most commonly the gut, kidney and liver are affected.\n\nIt may affect the skin (livedo reticularis and livedo racemosa) or brain (stroke). Polyarteritis nodosa in children is also known to occur.\n\nOther conditions associated with this syndrome include hypogammaglobulinemia, pure red cell aplasia, immune thrombocytopenia and neutropenia.\n\nThis includes common variable immunodeficiency, bone marrow failure and idiopathic aplastic anemia.\n\nThis is not understood. The gene is expressed in myeloid cells and macrophages but its function is not known.\n\nThalidomide, tumour necrosis factor antibodies and in severe cases bone marrow transplantation have been used successfully.\n\nThis condition was first reported in 2014.\n"}
{"id": "24351197", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24351197", "title": "Anaphylaxis Campaign", "text": "Anaphylaxis Campaign\n\nThe Anaphylaxis Campaign is a British charity that solely supports people at risk from severe allergic reactions. For over 21 years, the charity has provided information and support to patients and their families.\n\nThe Anaphylaxis Campaign was created to ensure a safe environment for all people with allergies by working with and educating the food industry, schools, pre-schools, colleges, health professionals and other key audiences. It focuses on medical facts, food labelling, risk reduction and allergen management.\n\nThe charity also trains patients, carers and healthcare professionals through its Allergy Wise online training. They have a nationwide network of volunteer-led peer support groups for people whose lives are affected by the risk of an acute allergic reaction, and to help people with severe allergies to be more confidently in control of their lives. It actively campaigns to raise awareness of anaphylaxis with the general public and with the relevant authorities for better allergy care and treatments.\n\nThe Campaign was established in 1994 following the deaths of four people from allergic reactions to nuts. Its founder and honorary vice-president, David Reading, was made OBE in the 2005 New Year's Honours List for services to people with allergies.\n\nThe Campaign's honorary president is William Frankland, the pioneer immunologist, who turned 106 in March 2018.\n\nOlympic swimmer Mark Foster has been the Campaign's patron since 2009. His friend and fellow-athlete, Ross Baillie died following an anaphylactic reaction in 1999.\n\nThe chef Giorgio Locatelli is also a patron of the Anaphylaxis Campaign since 2013.\n\nThe Anaphylaxis Campaign is a founder member of the National Allergy Strategy Group, a coalition of charities, professional organisations and industry, that seeks to improve health services for allergy sufferers in the UK.\n\nThe charity has called for clearer guidelines and greater consistency on food labelling. It has also lobbied to remove what it considers to be unnecessary 'may contain' labelling, arguing that food manufacturers should only use these labels when there is a genuine risk to allergy sufferers.\n\nThe Anaphylaxis Campaign has tried to raise awareness of the problems caused by inconsistency in how severe allergy is diagnosed. To help improve awareness among frontline medical practitioners, it launched an online training programme, called AllergyWise, in 2011, accredited by the Royal College of Nursing.\n\nIn March 2011, the charity held a national conference with the Food Standards Agency, the UK government department, on 'Communicating the science of food allergy'.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "875678", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=875678", "title": "Angiotech Pharmaceuticals", "text": "Angiotech Pharmaceuticals\n\nAngiotech is a pharmaceutical company in Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada. Its products enhance the performance of medical devices and biomaterials through the use of pharmacotherapeutics.\nAngiotech is a global specialty pharmaceutical and medical device company that discovers, develops, and markets innovative technologies and medical products primarily for local diseases or for complications associated with medical device implants, surgical interventions and acute injury.\n\nIn April 2010, Angiotech acquired Haemacure manufacturing to develop human biological adhesives, hemostats and therapeutic proteins.\n\nAngiotech, based in Vancouver, British Columbia, was founded in 1992 by William L. Hunter, M.D., Lindsay Machan, M.D., and Larry Arsenault, Ph.D.\n\n"}
{"id": "13746618", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13746618", "title": "CHIMES Society", "text": "CHIMES Society\n\nCHIMES Society is an international academic collaboration whose objective is to establish new stroke treatments.\n\nCHIMES is a Singaporean non-profit society founded by a group of key opinion leaders in stroke, Southeast Asia regional experts, and clinicians interested in implementing a research project on Traditional Chinese Medicine efficacy on stroke recovery.\n\nCHIMES society has received a grant in 2007 from Singapore National Medical Research Council which has allowed the initiation of a double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled clinical trial in October 2007. The trial includes 1,100 patients and aims at measuring the efficacy of NeuroAid in reducing neurological deficit and improving functional outcome in patients with cerebral infarction.\n\nClinical studies were conducted in China from 1999 to 2001 and the results have been submitted for publication. Since publication is pending, further information will be provided here when the publication is released.\n\n"}
{"id": "56132079", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56132079", "title": "Cannabis in Ivory Coast", "text": "Cannabis in Ivory Coast\n\nCannabis in Ivory Coast is illegal. The country produces some amount of low-grade cannabis for local and regional consumption.\n\nCannabis cultivation increased substantially in Ivory Coast following a \"cocoa crisis\" in 1989–1990 which disrupted prices for one of the country's largest exports. The same profit as is produced on 30 hectares of cocoa can be gained on 0.1 hectares of cannabis.\n"}
{"id": "37049209", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37049209", "title": "CareConfidential", "text": "CareConfidential\n\nCareConfidential is a charity which provides information and counselling independent of the NHS on pregnancy choices, and post-abortion support. They do this through their website, helpline and online chat. Information on their website and leaflets has been certified by the information Standard. They formerly supported a network of crisis pregnancy centers, but as of 2014, no longer do so. CareConfidential was founded as a programme of the pro-life organisation Christian Action Research and Education (CARE), and became an independent charity in 2011. Since becoming independent CareConfidential do not explicitly state whether they are pro-life or pro-choice but seek to acknowledge the freedom of choice, respecting all clients' decisions.\n\nInvestigations by BBC Newsnight and by the pro-choice charity Education for Choice found that false medical information about the supposed physical and mental health risks of abortion was given during counselling at some centres affiliated with CareConfidential and that the counselling was not impartial, with counsellors pushing women to carry their pregnancies to term. Other centres were impartial, offering clients the time, space and accurate information to talk though their choices. An investigation by the Daily Mail noted that although some counsellors might have received training and accreditation, there is no legal requirement for counsellors to have any credentials at all.\n"}
{"id": "1146304", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1146304", "title": "Cesspit", "text": "Cesspit\n\nA cesspit (or cesspool or soak pit in some contexts), is a term with various meanings: it is used to describe either an underground holding tank (sealed at the bottom) or a soak pit (not sealed at the bottom). It can be used for the temporary collection and storage of feces, excreta or fecal sludge as part of an on-site sanitation system and has some similarities with septic tanks or with soak pits. Traditionally, it was a deep cylindrical chamber dug into the earth, having approximate dimensions of 1 metre diameter and 2–3 metres depth. Their appearance was similar to that of a hand-dug water well.\n\nThe pit can be lined with bricks or concrete, covered with a slab and needing to be emptied frequently when it is used like an underground holding tank. In other cases (if soil and groundwater conditions allow), it is not constructed watertight, to allow liquid to leach out (similar to a pit latrine or to a soak pit).\n\nIn the UK a cesspit is a sealed tank for the reception and temporary storage of sewage; in North America this is simply referred to as a \"holding tank\". Because it is sealed, the tank must be emptied frequently — in many cases as often as weekly. Because of the need for frequent emptying, the cost of maintenance of a cesspit can be very high.\n\nA cesspool was at one time built like a dry well lined with loose-fitting brick or stone, used for the disposal of sewage via infiltration into the soil. Liquids leaked out through the soil as conditions allowed, while solids decayed and collected as composted matter in the base of the cesspool. As the solids accumulated, eventually the particulate solids blocked the escape of liquids, causing the cesspool to drain more slowly or to overflow.\n\nA biofilm forms in the loose soil surrounding a cesspool or pit latrine which provides some degree of attenuation of the pollutants present, but a very deep cesspool can allow raw sewage to directly enter groundwater with minimal biological cleansing, leading to groundwater pollution and undrinkable water supplies. It is for this reason that deep water wells on the property must be drilled far from the cesspool.\n\nMost residential waste cesspools in use in the US today are rudimentary septic systems, consisting of a concrete-capped pit lined with concrete masonry units (cinder blocks) laid on their sides with perforated drain field piping (weeping tile) extending outward below the level of the intake connection. The concrete cover will often have a cleanout pipe extending above ground. Some are constructed with concrete walls on one or more sides.\n\nThe waste cesspool is vulnerable to overloading or flooding by heavy rains or snow melt because it is not enclosed and sealed like conventional septic tank systems. It is also vulnerable to the entry of tree roots which can eventually cause the system to fail.\n\nModern environmental regulations either discourage or ban the use of cesspools, and instead connections to municipal sewage systems or septic tanks are encouraged or required.\n\nIn many countries, planning and development regulations for the protection of the watershed prevent home-owners who live close to rivers and environmentally sensitive areas from installing a septic system, requiring a holding tank instead.\n\nIn some localities in the U.S., existing rural residential waste cesspools are \"grandfathered\" or allowed to continue operations until they no longer function. Once defunct, they must be disconnected and replaced by modern septic systems. In areas that have a higher than usual water table or fail a percolation test, an above-ground drain field waste disposal system may be installed instead.\n\nIn the case of sale or transfer of residential property that uses an existing waste cesspool system, local laws may differ. Some counties or jurisdictions do not permit the sale of residential property that utilizes a waste cesspool. Other counties or villages may recognize the \"grandfather clause\" and allow the property sale or transfer.\n\nIn France, Germany, Spain and Switzerland, cesspits are forbidden.\n\nThe typical American urbanite in the 1870s relied on the rural solution of individual well and outhouse (privy) or cesspools. Baltimore in the 1880s smelled \"like a billion polecats,\" according to H. L. Mencken, and a Chicagoan said in his city \"the stink is enough to knock you down.\" Improvement was slow, and large cities of the East and South depended to the end of the century mainly on drainage through open gutters. Pollution of water supplies by sewage as well as dumping of industrial waste accounted in large measures for the public health records and staggering mortality rates of the period. \n\nCesspits were introduced to Europe in the 16th century, at a time when urban populations were growing at a faster rate than in the past. The added burden of waste volume began overloading urban street gutters, where chamber pots were emptied each day. There was no regulation of cesspit construction until the 18th century, when a need to address sanitation and safety concerns became apparent. Cesspits were cleaned out by tradesmen using shovels and horse-drawn wagons. Cesspools were cleaned only at night, to reduce the smell and annoyance to the public. The typical cesspit was cleaned out once every 8 to 10 years. Fermentation of the solid waste collecting in cesspits, however, resulted in dangerous infections and gases that sometimes asphyxiated cesspit cleaners. Cesspits began to be cleaned out more regularly, but strict regulations for cesspit construction and ventilation were not introduced until the 1800s.\n\nBefore construction reforms were introduced in the early 19th century, liquid waste would seep away through the ground, leaving solid waste behind in the cesspit. While this made removal of solid waste easier, the seeping liquid waste often contaminated well water sources, creating public health problems. Municipal reforms required that cesspits be built of solid walls of stone and concrete. This kept liquid waste in the cesspit, forcing cesspits to be cleaned more frequently, on average two or three times per year. Liquid cesspit waste would be removed with pumps by cesspit cleaners, and then solid waste, valuable as fertilizer and for manufacturing ammonia, was removed. \nIn 1846, French public hygienist Alphone Guérard estimated that 100 cesspits were cleaned in Paris every night, by 200-250 total cesspit cleaners in the city, and out of a total of 30,000 cesspits. The replacement of Paris' cesspit system was challenged for decades by officials not on public hygiene grounds, but on economic ones, based on the desire to conserve human waste as fertilizer rather than disposing of it in a modern sewer system. Paris' sewer system began modernizing in the 1880s, with the conversion of storm sewers for public sewage. Some cesspits were still in use in Paris into the 20th century.\n\nIn Suffolk County, on Long Island, New York, most households still use cesspools for waste drainage. Cesspool collapses have occurred in this area, for example on December 8, 2009. Two workers in a decommissioned cesspit were trapped, subsequently leading to a two-hour rescue mission. Since 1998, six cases of cesspools collapsing and sucking in human residents that were standing over them have been reported, injuring a total of seven people, killing one in 2001, one in 2007, and one in 2010. \n\nOn June 1, 2011, two teenagers from Farmingville in Long Island, New York, drowned after becoming overwhelmed by fumes and trapped in a backyard cesspool measuring 16-feet deep. The collapsing cesspools were mostly due to older cesspools built with brick or cinder block. These structures weakened over their lifespan leading to increased risk of collapse. Newer cesspools are cast concrete which dramatically decrease any risk of collapse. All new construction in areas without waste sewer systems use these new precast cesspools. In addition, cast concrete cesspools are used commonly in commercial construction for storm water collection.\n\n"}
{"id": "40003433", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40003433", "title": "Clinical Practice in Pediatric Psychology", "text": "Clinical Practice in Pediatric Psychology\n\nClinical Practice in Pediatric Psychology is a quarterly peer-reviewed academic journal published by the American Psychological Association on behalf of APA Division 54. It covers all aspects of pediatric psychology. The inaugural editors-in-chief were Jennifer Shroff Pendley (Nemours/Alfred I. duPont Hospital for Children) and W. Douglas Tynan (Nemours Health and Prevention Services). The current editor-in-chief is Jennifer Verrill Schurman (Children's Mercy Kansas City). The journal was established in 2013 and is abstracted and indexed in PsycINFO and SCOPUS.\n"}
{"id": "24712166", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24712166", "title": "Closed system drug transfer device", "text": "Closed system drug transfer device\n\nA closed system drug transfer device or \"CSTD\" is a drug transfer device that mechanically prohibits the transfer of environmental contaminants into a system and the escape of hazardous drug or vapor concentrations outside the system. Open versus closed systems are commonly applied in medical devices to maintain the sterility of a fluid pathway. CSTDs work by preventing the uncontrolled inflow and outflow of contaminants and drugs, preserving the quality of solution to be infused into a patient. Theoretically, CSTDs should enable complete protection to healthcare workers in managing hazardous drugs, but possibly due to improper handling or incomplete product design, contaminants can still be detected despite use of CSTDs.\n\nHazardous drugs are often used for patients suffering from cancer. For example, chemotherapy agents are routinely used in the treatment of cancer. However, chemotherapy can be dangerous to a person even if they don't have cancer, as chemotherapy often indiscriminately affects both healthy and cancerous cells. For the healthcare worker tasked with preparing hazardous medications like chemotherapy, manipulation of these agents presents a substantial risk; for example, it may negatively affect their fertility, increase their risk of developing certain cancers themselves, or have unwelcome effects on fetuses. As an addition to standard safe handling practices, CSTDs are devices that are designed to additionally limit exposure of hazardous drugs to the personnel that manipulate them.\n\nInvestment and interests in CSTDs continue to grow over the past decade as concerns of Occupational Safety and Health (OSH), together with increased awareness of drug risks have pushed the market to explore better options for handling hazardous materials. A Cochrane review found \"no evidence for or against adding CSTD to safe handling of hazardous medicines\" based on a review of 23 studies, but acknowledged that the studies did not use randomised controlled trials nor evaluate the value of treatment. CSTDs used in this study include PhaSeal, Tevadaptor and SpikeSwan. It remains that new solutions to increasing safety of handling hazardous drugs have to be developed. Conceptually, through operating in a closed system, CSTDs should significantly reduce risks to nurses. However, the robustness of product design and extent of proper usage by nurses affects the efficacy of the CSTD in achieving OSH.\n\nThe first FDA-approved CSTD was in 1998, called PhaSeal. Since that time, many other CSTD products have been developed in the United States. MD Anderson hospital was the first hospital in the United States to widely implement CSTD technology.\n\nThe definition of a closed system drug transfer device was first published in an alert warning released by the American National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH). This warning was issued in relation to studies that showed a correlation between working with or near hazardous drugs in a health care environment and the increased risk of developing skin rashes, infertility, miscarriage and infant birth defects, as well as the possibility of developing leukemia and other forms of cancer. This NIOSH alert recommended that a closed system drug transfer device be used whenever hazardous drugs were to be handled.\n\nNIOSH, in response to the need for a working model as to what a \"closed system\" and what a \"closed system drug transfer device\" was, provided the following definition:\n\n\nThe NIOSH definition is the only definition that includes drug vapors. NIOSH considers the containment of vapor extremely important, such that in September 2015, NIOSH issued a Testing Protocol to assess the effectiveness of closed systems. NIOSH developed and tested 5 CSTDs to assess its \"closeness.\" 2 of the 5 CSTDs tested passed. This protocol is aimed as being a test standard for CSTDs to assess the \"closeness\" of each system.\n\nISOPP, the International Society of Oncology Pharmacy Practitioners, splits the definition of a closed system into two different categories:\n\n\nIn September 2015, the CDC issued a proposal for a testing protocol designed to test various CSTDs on the market today to help healthcare decision makers decipher between various systems available on the market today. This protocol had an initial close date of November 2015 but was extended until March 2016. Findings from \"Fred Massoomi's Response to Docket No. CDC-2015-0075, NIOSH-288\" include:\n\nCommercially available CSTD products include the following:\n"}
{"id": "5947372", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5947372", "title": "Cohort effect", "text": "Cohort effect\n\nThe term cohort effect is used in social science to describe variations in the characteristics of an area of study (such as the incidence of a characteristic or the age at onset) over time among individuals who are defined by some shared temporal experience or common life experience, such as year of birth, or year of exposure to radiation.\n\nCohort effects are important to epidemiologists searching for patterns in illnesses. Certain illnesses may be socially affected via the anticipation phenomenon, and cohort effects can be an indicator of this sort of phenomenon.\n\nCohort effects are important to resource dependency and economics theorists when these groups affect structures of influence within their larger organizations. Cohorts in organizations are often defined by entry or birth date, and retain some common characteristic (size, cohesiveness, competition) that can affect the organization. For example, cohort effects are critical issues in school enrollment. \n\nIn order to determine whether a cohort effect is present, a researcher may conduct a cohort study.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30999586", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30999586", "title": "Ease of Access", "text": "Ease of Access\n\nEase of Access Center, formerly Utility Manager, is a component of Windows NT family of operating systems that enables use of assistive technologies. Utility Manager is included with Windows 2000 and Windows XP. In Windows Vista, Utility Manager was replaced with the Ease of Access Center control panel applet, which is still included in Windows 10, Microsoft's latest operating system. The keyboard shortcut for invoking Utility Manager or the Ease of Access Center is . The command-line shortcut (used in Windows Command Prompt or Run command) is codice_1.\n\nSome features include Narrator, Magnifier, High Contrast, On Screen Keyboard, Sticky Keys, Toggle Keys, Filter Keys, and Mouse Keys.\n"}
{"id": "51550201", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51550201", "title": "Effects of overtime", "text": "Effects of overtime\n\nEmployees who work overtime hours experience numerous mental, physical, and social effects. Significant effects include stress, lack of free time, poor work-life balance, and health risks. Employee performance levels could also be lowered. Long work hours could lead to tiredness, fatigue, and lack of attentiveness. As a result, suggestions have been proposed for risk mitigation.\n\nThe health and safety effects of overtime work vary widely and much remains unknown. Some studies have reported numerous adverse health effects, including increased alcohol and tobacco usage, decreased birthweight in offspring, and decreased cognitive functioning found both subjectively and objectively using specialized testing. However, other studies have not established such relationships between overtime work and decreased health. Work shifts lasting 9–12 hours, work shifts exceeding 12 hours, and work weeks exceeding 40 hours have each demonstrated—in some studies—varying levels of decreased cognitive testing performance and increased workplace injury. Inconsistencies between studies may be secondary to numerous workplace and employee factors, which make it difficult for researchers to establish specific causal relationships. A larger amount of data exist regarding the male workforce, whereas additional studies are needed to better assess impacts of overtime work and extended shifts on women. A survey about events between 1987 and 2000 found that in a cohort of 10,793 men and women, overtime work was associated with a 61% excess rate of injury compared to jobs without overtime. Injury rate was directly proportional to length of the work shift and number of hours in the work week. Study authors found excess injury risk not only associated with jobs that are more hazardous, but also with overall fatigue from working overtime and extended work shifts.\n\nThe mental effects on workers will vary based upon the work they do, the number of hours they work, and the individual working. Groupon performed a study in July 2016 on the effects of work. The results found that 38% work too much, 46% never had time to relax, and 60% of pollers have an unhealthy work-life balance. While this research showed some trends concerning the effects, other research has been performed to test the satisfaction levels of employees. A 2004 study of workers in Australia showed a trend that satisfaction levels decreased as the number of hours worked increased. They also stated that these effects could be lessened for those who enjoyed working extensive hours. These types of workers are more satisfied with their work-life balance.\n\nIn addition to working satisfaction, another Australian longitudinal cohort study revealed poorer mental health in workers with long working hours. The authors conducted a 12-year longitudinal follow-up cohort consisting of 18,420 people and 90,637 observations. With the Mental Component Summary (MCS) of the Short Form 36 (SF-36) measure, they noted a 48% increased probability regarding mental health decline in those workers working 49–59 hours per week, compared with those under standard working hours (that is, 35–40 hours per week). The probability increased by 53% in those working more than 60 hours a week. They also found a difference by gender; among those working 49–59 hours per week, the SF-36 scores are lower among female than male, indicating worse mental health among female workers.\n\nSimilar gender differences were noted in other studies. In follow-up to the Whitehall study, a research team conducted a prospective cohort study following 2,960 middle-age full-time workers consisting of 2,248 men and 712 women. The results revealed a 267% increase in depression symptoms and a 284% increase in anxiety symptoms among those female workers working more than 55 hours per week, compared with those under standard working hours (35–40 hours per week). They also indicated a trend that for every 10-hour increase in weekly working hours, an associated 40% increase in depression symptoms and 31% increase in anxiety symptoms were noted. Similar trends were not noted among male workers. Similarly, Margot Shields surveyed 3,830 men and women between the ages of 25 and 54 who worked 35 hours or more per week between 1994 and 1997. She analyzed the relationship between working hours and depression. Her results found that women had increased likelihood of experiencing depression as more hours were worked.\n\nSuicidal ideation is another concern for overtime work. Research conducted in South Korea recruited 67,471 samples, and the results revealed 30% higher suicidal ideation among workers having working hours more than 60 hours (31% increase in male workers and 33% increase in female workers). There was also increased suicidal ideation noted among workers working for 51–60 hours per week in both males and females.\n\nIn summary, mental effects related to overtime work include lower working satisfaction, depression, anxiety, and suicidal ideation. Among these, depression and anxiety are more predominant among female workers. Some research has proposed probable reasons for the gender difference. Female workers tend to take on more household responsibilities after work, which contributes to their mental stress. Also, female workers have been reported as relative minorities within the working place; at times experiencing lower job control, bullying, discrimination, etc.\n\nConsecutive periods of working straight shifts, lack of breaks during the day, and consecutive days of working without a day off lead to decreased efficiency and productivity in workers. A synopsis of the book \"Tired Cops: The Importance of Managing Police Fatigue\" by Bryan Vila analyzed how these effected police officers in 2000. The abnormal work and sleep schedules were leading causes of the limited efficiency of police officers. This downturn in their effectiveness created unsafe environments for the communities around them.\n\nLong-term effects were researched by The University of Texas Health Science Center at Houston. They studied the link between overtime and the increased risk of cardiovascular disorder (CVD) events. Their results included evidence that showed that for people who worked at least 10 years for each additional hour worked, starting from the 46th hour, his or her risk of a CVD event increased by 1%. In addition to these health risks, María Beniell, who received her Ph.D. in Economics from the Center for Monetary and Financial Studies (CEMFI), researched the correlation between working long hours and the likelihood of individuals smoking, drinking, having a high body mass index (BMI), and being less physically active. The long-term effects of alcohol consumption include increased on-the-job injuries and loss of productivity, family problems, risk of high blood pressure, stroke, other cardiovascular diseases, and more. The effects of smoking, in addition to similarities of the effects of alcohol, include increased risk of heart attacks, emphysema, and a large amount of cancers.\n\nMargot Shields' 1994-1997 study also analyzed the relationship between long hours and changes in weight, smoking, drinking, and exercising. For men, longer hours were associated with unhealthy weight gain. Increased smoking occurred for both men and women, and an increase in drinking existed for women. No relationship could be drawn regarding changes in physical activity.\n\nIn Osaka, Japan, researchers completed a 5-year study on the effects of long work hours on hypertension in 1999. At the end of their study, they had surveyed 941 male Japanese white-collar workers. They concluded that long work hours are negatively-associated with the risk for hypertension.\n\nAuthors of one paper performed a mental analysis on four published cohort studies and nineteen unpublished studies looking at the effect of \"long working hours\" (defined by the authors as 55 or more hours per week) to look for an association of developing Type II Diabetes compared to a referent group of workers only working 35–40 hours per week. They found that there was statistically-significant evidence for an association between longer working hours and development of Type II Diabetes, but only for individuals of low socioeconomic status such as manual laborers, when compared to other SES groups. The lower SES group working longer hours had a 29% increased risk of developing Type II diabetes; even after adjusting for physical activity, smoking, alcohol use, and obesity. However another author commented that residual confounding might account for this higher risk in the lower SES group compared to the higher SES group. They also postulated that sleep may be a mediator for this association, since inadequate sleep or sleep of poor quality / quantity can be a predictor of Type II diabetes. The workers in the lower SES group may have less control over their schedule, and this may include disruptive schedules interfering with circadian rhythm.\n\nOne large-cale study using data from the Individual-Participant-Data Meta-analysis in Working Population Consortium involving 85,494 workers from several European countries also looked at the effects of long work hours and the association with developing atrial fibrillation. These participants were free of atrial fibrillation at baseline. Mean age was 43.4 years. During follow up over 10 years, those working long hours (55 hours or more per week) were at 40% higher risk of developing atrial fibrillation compared to those working a standard 35-40 hour-week. In their study, the investigators controlled for age, sex, SES, smoking, BMI, physical activity, and alcohol consumption. The investigators also commented that this association between long working hours and atrial fibrillation appeared to be independent of classic risk factors of atrial fibrillation due to the similarities of the exposed group (long work hours) and the referent group.\n\nFor Coronary Heart Disease (CHD), a meta-analysis of four prospective studies published in 2012 found a 1.4-fold increased risk of CHD associated with long working hours. The investigators also noted that this association was higher for men than women. They hypothesized underlying mechanisms for this association may include longer exposure to stress, sleep deprivation, and / or dysregulation of the HPA axis causing an increase in cortisol production. They also noted that this estimate might have been biased for several reasons. One reason could have been if workers with underlying CHD reduced their working hours in the years before a CHD event. A second reason could be due to confounding of SES. A meta-analysis adjusting for these factors found the risk of a CHD event to be 1.13 instead. Furthermore, the study authors also found a 1.3-times higher risk for those working long hours.\n\nWork-life balance is a major aspect of employees' lives. Naturally, the more hours someone works, the less time they will have to spend with their family or other leisure activities. In 2007, professors from Penn State Abington analyzed the tradeoff between working overtime and home and family life activities. A major finding was that workers struggled to take time off for personal or family needs. However, the additional income from working long hours could limit the actual impact of this loss of time. More specifically, the impact of having a child exponentially increased the impact of working overtime. Especially at a young age, it is very important in child development for the parents to be involved to provide care and positive experiences. Due to this reason, work-life conflicts arise much more frequently for parents, as stress levels are heightened. These effects are even worse for single parents.\n\n\"Karoshi\" (translated as worked to death) is a concern in Japan. A paper published in 2006 showed that over a quarter of Japan's workforce were working 50 hours or more per week with half of them working 60 hours or more per week. The Ministry of Health, Labor, and Welfare launched an investigation in 2002 to examine 300 cases of possible Karoshi (death from being over-worked) during a time frame between 2002 and 2005. From their study, they recommended that employers offer a physician interview / guidance for any employee working over 100 hours overtime / month or if an employee requested a doctor's assessment.\n\nOverall research evidence has shown that long working hours increases mortality risk. A UK census-based longitudinal study of 414,949 people aged 20–64 years, showed that overtime work increases mortality risk in men working for more than 55 hours per week. The authors showed that mortality is higher in technical, semi-routine, or routine occupations (positions with high demand, low levels of control, or perceived imbalance between effort and reward). The authors also demonstrated that increased mortality risk was mainly attributed to cardiovascular disease.\n\nSimilar results were found in other studies. A 30-year longitudinal study in Denmark of 5,249 employed Caucasian men aged 40–59 years showed that men working 41–45 hours per week had a 59% increased risk of mortality due to ischemic heart disease compared to men working less than 40 hours per week. The authors also found that physical fitness played a significant role, where among men with low physical fitness, those working more than 45 hours per week had more than twice the risk of death by ischemic heart disease compared to men working less than 40 hours per week; while this increased risk was not seen among the fittest men. Furthermore, a study based on data from the Swedish twin registry showed that there was an association between overtime work of more than 5 hours a week and increased mortality in women. This association was also seen in men, but only in the first five years of follow-up. In contrast, the authors showed that working less than five hours a week of overtime decreases the risk of mortality in men.\n\nOther studies argue that there is no direct cause-and-effect relationship between hours worked and short and long-term risks. Their claims include comments about factors that alter the outcome of effects. These include an individual's personality, occupation, and income. This research was done through a HILDA (Household, Income and Labour Dynamics in Australia) survey in 2001 and was completed in 2004. Prior research into these counter-arguments was completed by a group of researchers in 1997. They found links between increased CVD events and mental health disorders along with decreases in production as the number of hours worked increased. However, they state that further research is necessary before definitive conclusions can be made, as factors of each individual have vast consequences on the effect of working overtime. In addition, workers who work overtime when it is not mandatory find that there are very minimal effects on their fatigue levels.\n\nIn contrast, a Japanese study of 1,105 employees has demonstrated that longer working hours is associated with better health status in older employees. The authors of this study showed that overall health differed by age group, which reflects a generational difference with respect to their attitudes toward work. Among older workers, longer work hours might be beneficial as work-based social networks offer a structured environment, social support, and companionship.\n\nWhile a definitive conclusion could not be made, suggestions exist to minimize the potential risks of long working hours. Creation of the work schedule should be managed properly to avoid multiple consecutive shifts, long periods of working without rest, and balanced breaks during the day. For families with children, it is very important for that employees can manage their schedule for family or personal needs. This will help alleviate stress, provide flexible work hours throughout the year, and avoid many work-life conflicts.\n\nIn 1981, Jay Kim and Anthony Campagna, researchers from Ohio State University, studied the effects Flextime. Flextime allows workers to change their start and end work time. They first analyzed a wide range of studies done on flextime. Then they separated 353 employees into two groups: one that allowed flextime, and one that did not (control group). Their study found that flextime largely reduced unpaid absences for employees. They also found a general increase in worker performance. Flextime could impact coordinating schedules and meetings, as employee work schedules may vary.\n\n"}
{"id": "44632395", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44632395", "title": "European Union Statistics on Income and Living Conditions", "text": "European Union Statistics on Income and Living Conditions\n\nThe European Union Statistics on Income and Living Conditions, (also known as \"European Union Survey on Income and Living Conditions\") abbreviated EU-SILC, is a survey department of the EU.\nIt replaced in 2004 the \"European Community Household Panel\" (ECHP), which covered the years 1994-2003. The EU-SILC includes only minor changes relative to its predecessor the ECHP; most importantly, it significantly expands the number of countries included in the sample.\n\n"}
{"id": "1212545", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1212545", "title": "Familial dysautonomia", "text": "Familial dysautonomia\n\nFamilial dysautonomia (FD), sometimes called Riley–Day syndrome and hereditary sensory and autonomic neuropathy type III (HSAN-III), is a disorder of the autonomic nervous system which affects the development and survival of sensory, sympathetic and some parasympathetic neurons in the autonomic and sensory nervous system resulting in variable symptoms, including insensitivity to pain, inability to produce tears, poor growth and labile blood pressure (episodic hypertension and postural hypotension). People with FD have frequent vomiting crises, pneumonia, problems with speech and movement, difficulty swallowing, inappropriate perception of heat, pain and taste as well as unstable blood pressure and gastrointestinal dysmotility. FD does not affect intelligence.\n\nOriginally reported by Drs. Conrad Milton Riley (1913–2005) and Richard Lawrence Day (1905–1989) in 1949, FD is one example of a group of disorders known as hereditary sensory and autonomic neuropathies (HSAN). All HSAN are characterized by widespread sensory dysfunction and variable autonomic dysfunction caused by incomplete development of sensory and autonomic neurons. The disorders are believed to be genetically distinct from each other.\n\nThe most distinctive clinical feature is the absence of overflow tears with emotional crying after age 7 months. This symptom can manifest less dramatically as persistent bilateral eye irritation. There is also a high prevalence of breech presentation. Other symptoms include weak or absent suck and poor tone, poor suck and misdirected swallowing, and red blotching of skin.\n\nSymptoms in an older child with familial dysautonomia might include:\n\n\nFamilial dysautonomia is the result of mutations in IKBKAP gene on chromosome 9, which encodes for the IKAP protein (IkB kinase complex-associated protein). There have been three mutations in IKBKAP identified in individuals with FD. The most common FD-causing mutation occurs in intron 20 of the donor gene. Conversion of T→C in intron 20 of the donor gene resulted in shift splicing that generates an IKAP transcript lacking exon 20. Translation of this mRNA results in a truncated protein lacking all of the amino acids encoded by exons 20-37. Another less common mutation is a G→C conversion resulting in one amino acid mutation in 696, where Proline substitutes normal Arginine. The decreased amount of functional IKAP protein in cells causes familial dysautonomia.\n\nA clinical diagnosis of FD is supported by a constellation of criteria:\n\nGenetic testing is performed on a small sample of blood from the tested individual. The DNA is examined with a designed probe specific to the known mutations. The accuracy of the test is above 99%. Dr. Anat Blumenfeld of the Hadasah Medical center in Jerusalem identified chromosome number 9 as the responsible chromosome.\n\nFamilial dysautonomia is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means 2 copies of the gene in each cell are altered. If both parents are shown to be carriers by genetic testing, there is a 25% chance that the child will have FD. For pregnancies at increased risk for FD, preimplantation genetic diagnosis or prenatal diagnosis by amniocentesis (at 15–17 weeks) or chorionic villus sampling (at 10–14 weeks) is possible.\n\nThere is currently no cure for FD and death occurs in 50% of the affected individuals by age 30. There are only two treatment centers, one at New York University Hospital and one at the Sheba Medical Center in Israel. One is being planned for the San Francisco area.\n\nThe survival rate and quality of life have increased since the mid-1980s mostly due to a greater understanding of the most dangerous symptoms. At present, FD patients can be expected to function independently if treatment is begun early and major disabilities avoided.\n\nA major issue has been aspiration pneumonia, where food or regurgitated stomach content would be aspirated into the lungs causing infections. Fundoplications (by preventing regurgitation) and gastrostomy tubes (to provide nonoral nutrition) have reduced the frequency of hospitalization.\n\nOther issues which can be treated include FD crises, scoliosis, and various eye conditions due to limited or no tears.\n\nAn FD crisis is the body's loss of control of various autonomic nervous system functions including blood pressure, heart rate, and body temperature. Both short-term and chronic periodic high or low blood pressure have consequences and medication is used to stabilize blood pressure.\n\nAlthough the FD-causing gene has been identified and it seems to have tissue specific expression, there is no definitive treatment at present.\nTreatment of FD remains preventative, symptomatic and supportive. FD does not express itself in a consistent manner. The type and severity of symptoms displayed vary among patients and even at different ages on the same patients. So patients should have specialized individual treatment plans. Medications are used to control vomiting, eye dryness, and blood pressure. There are some commonly needed treatments including:\n\n\nThere is no cure for Familial Dysautonomia.\n\nThe outlook for patients with FD depends on the particular diagnostic category. Patients with chronic, progressive, generalized dysautonomia in the setting of central nervous system degeneration have a generally poor long-term prognosis. Death can occur from pneumonia, acute respiratory failure, or sudden cardiopulmonary arrest in such patients.\n\nParents and patients should generally be educated regarding daily eye care and early warning signs of corneal problems as well as the use of punctal cautery. This education has resulted in decreased corneal scarring and need for more aggressive surgical measures such as tarsorrhaphy, conjunctival flaps, and corneal transplants.\n\nFamilial dysautonomia is seen almost exclusively in Ashkenazi Jews and is inherited in an autosomal recessive fashion. Both parents must be carriers in order for a child to be affected. The carrier frequency in Jewish individuals of Eastern European (Ashkenazi) ancestry is about 1/30, while the carrier frequency in non-Jewish individuals is unknown. If both parents are carriers, there is a one in four, or 25%, chance with each pregnancy for an affected child. Genetic counseling and genetic testing is recommended for families who may be carriers of familial dysautonomia.\n\nWorldwide, there have been approximately 600 diagnoses recorded since discovery of the disease, with approximately 350 of them still living.\n\nIn January 2001, researchers at Fordham University and Massachusetts General Hospital simultaneously reported finding the genetic mutation that causes FD, a discovery that opens the door to many diagnostic and treatment possibilities.\n\nDespite that it probably would not happen in the near future, some expect that stem-cell therapy will result. Eventually, treatment could be given in utero.\n\nWhile that may be years ahead, genetic screening became available around April 2001, enabling Ashkenazi Jews to find out if they are carriers. Screening organization Dor Yeshorim offers to test as part of its panel, which also includes Tay-Sachs disease and cystic fibrosis.\n\nIn the meantime, more research into treatments is being funded by the foundations that exist. These foundations are organized and run by parents of those with FD. There is no governmental support beyond recognizing those diagnosed with FD as eligible for certain programs.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14185420", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14185420", "title": "Federal Institute for Drugs and Medical Devices", "text": "Federal Institute for Drugs and Medical Devices\n\nThe Federal Institute for Drugs and Medical Devices (in German: Bundesinstitut für Arzneimittel und Medizinprodukte - \"BfArM\") is a medical regulatory body in Germany.\n\nIt operates under the Federal Ministry of Health.\nIt is headquartered in Bonn.\n\nBfArM announced that it will accept pure electronic filings (eCTD or NeeS) from mid-February 2010 (previously a full paper copy was required). Only those documents requiring signature will be required in paper.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36442869", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36442869", "title": "Food extrusion", "text": "Food extrusion\n\nFood extrusion is a form of extrusion used in food processing. It is a process by which a set of mixed ingredients are forced through an opening in a perforated plate or die with a design specific to the food, and is then cut to a specified size by blades. The machine which forces the mix through the die is an extruder, and the mix is known as the extrudate. The extruder consists of a large, rotating screw tightly fitting within a stationary barrel, at the end of which is the die.\n\nExtrusion enables mass production of food via a continuous, efficient system that ensures uniformity of the final product. Food products manufactured using extrusion usually have a high starch content. These include some pasta, breads (croutons, bread sticks, and flat breads), many breakfast cereals and ready-to-eat snacks, confectionery, pre-made cookie dough, some baby foods, full-fat soy, textured vegetable protein, some beverages, and dry and semi-moist pet foods.\n\nIn the extrusion process, raw materials are first ground to the correct particle size, usually the consistency of coarse flour. The dry mix is passed through a pre-conditioner, in which other ingredients are added depending on the target product; these may be liquid sugar, fats, dyes, meats or water. Steam is injected to start the cooking process, and the preconditioned mix (extrudate) is then passed through an extruder. The extruder consists of a large, rotating screw tightly fitting within a stationary barrel, at the end of which is the die. The extruder's rotating screw forces the extrudate toward the die, through which it then passes. The amount of time the extrudate is in the extruder is the residence time.\n\nThe extruded product usually puffs and changes texture as it is extruded because of the reduction of forces and release of moisture and heat. The extent to which it does so is known as the expansion ratio. The extrudate is cut to the desired length by blades at the output of the extruder, which rotate about the die openings at a specific speed. The product is then cooled and dried, becoming rigid while maintaining porosity.\n\nThe cooking process takes place within the extruder where the product produces its own friction and heat due to the pressure generated (10–20 bar). The process can induce both protein denaturation and starch gelatinization under some conditions.\n\nMany food extrusion processes involve a high temperature over a short time. Important factors of the extrusion process are the composition of the extrudate, screw length and rotating speed, barrel temperature and moisture, die shape, and rotating speed of the blades. These are controlled based on the desired product to ensure uniformity of the output.\n\nMoisture is the most important of these factors, and affects the mix viscosity, acting to plasticize the extrudate. Increasing moisture will decrease viscosity, torque, and product temperature, and increase bulk density. This will also reduce the pressure at the die. Most extrusion processes for food processing maintain a moisture level below 40%, that is low to intermediate moisture. High-moisture extrusion is known as wet extrusion, but it was not used much before the introduction of twin screw extruders (TSE), which have a more efficient conveying capability. The most important rheological factor in the wet extrusion of high-starch extrudate is temperature.\n\nThe amount of salt in the extrudate may determine the colour and texture of some extruded products. The expansion ratio and airiness of the product depend on the salt concentration in the extrudate, possibly as a result of a chemical reaction between the salt and the starches in the extrudate. Colour changes as a result of salt concentration may be caused by \"the ability of salt to change the water activity of the extrudate and thus change the rate of browning reactions\". Salt is also used to distribute minor ingredients, such as food colours and flavours, after extrusion; these are more evenly distributed over the product's surface after being mixed with salt.\n\nThe first extruder was designed to manufacture sausages in the 1870s. Packaged dry pasta and breakfast cereals have been produced via extrusion since the 1930s, and the method was applied to pet food production since the 1950s (first extruded dog food in 1957 - Purina Dog Chow and first extruded cat food - Purina Friskies in 1962). It has also been incorporated into kitchen appliances, such as meat grinders, herb grinders, coffee grinders, and some types of pasta makers. A similar functional process occurs when using pastry bags.\n\nExtrusion enables mass production of food via a continuous, efficient system that ensures uniformity of the final product. This is achieved by controlling various aspects of the extrusion process. It has also enabled the production of new processed food products and \"revolutionized many conventional snack manufacturing processes\".\nThe extrusion process results in \"chemical reactions that occur within the extruder barrel and at the die\". Extrusion has the following effects:\n\nThe material of which an extrusion die is made can affect the final product. Compared to stainless steel dies, a pasta machine with bronze dies produces a rougher surface. This is considered to give an improved taste, as it better retains pasta sauces. \"Bronze die\" pasta is labelled as such on retail packages, to indicate a premium product.\n\nThe effects of \"extrusion cooking on nutritional quality are ambiguous\", as extrusion may change carbohydrates, dietary fibre, the protein and amino acid profile, vitamins, and mineral content of the extrudate in a manner that is beneficial or harmful.\n\nHigh-temperature extrusion for a short duration \"minimizes losses in vitamins and amino acids\". Extrusion enables mass production of some food, and will \"denature antinutritional factors\", such as destroying toxins or killing microorganisms. It may also improve \"protein quality and digestibility\", and affects the product's shape, texture, colour, and flavour.\n\nIt may also cause the fragmentation of proteins, starches, and non-starch polysaccharides to create \"reactive molecules that may form new linkages not found in nature\". This includes Maillard reactions which reduce the nutritional value of the proteins. Vitamins with heat lability may be destroyed. , little is known about the stability or bioavailability of phytochemicals involved in extrusion. Nutritional quality has been found to improve with moderate conditions (short duration, high moisture, low temperature), whereas a negative effect on nutritional quality of the extrudate occurs with a high temperature (at least 200 °C), low moisture (less than 15%), or improper components in the mix.\n\nA 2012 research paper indicates that use of non-traditional cereal flours, such as amaranth, buckwheat or millet, may be used to reduce the glycemic index of breakfast cereals produced by extrusion. The extrudate using these cereal flours exhibits a higher bulk and product density, had a similar expansion ratio, and had \"a significant reduction in readily digestible carbohydrates and slowly digestible carbohydrates\". A 2008 paper states that replacing 5% to 15% of the wheat flour and white flour with dietary fibre in the extrudate breakfast cereal mix significantly reduces \"the rate and extent of carbohydrate hydrolysis of the extruded products\", which increased the level of slowly digested carbohydrates and reduced the level of quickly digested carbohydrates.\n\nExtrusion has enabled the production of new processed food products and \"revolutionized many conventional snack manufacturing processes\".\n\nThe various types of food products manufactured by extrusion typically have a high starch content. \"Directly expanded\" types include breakfast cereals and corn curls, and are made in high temperature, low moisture conditions under high shear. \"Unexpanded\" products include pasta, which is produced at intermediate moisture (about 40%) and low temperature. \"Texturized\" products include meat analogues, which are made using plant proteins (\"textured vegetable protein\") and a long die to \"impart a fibrous, meat-like structure to the extrudate\", and fish paste. Confectionery made via extrusion includes chewing gum, liquorice, and toffee.\n\nSome processed cheeses and cheese analogues are also made by extrusion. Processed cheeses extruded with low moisture and temperature \"might be better suited for manufacturing using extrusion technology\" than those at high moisture or temperature. Lower moisture cheeses are firmer and chewier, and cheddar cheese with low moisture and an extrusion temperature of 80 °C was preferred by subjects in a study to other extruded cheddar cheese produced under different conditions. An extrudate mean residence time of about 100 seconds can produce \"processed cheeses or cheese analogues of varying texture (spreadable to sliceable)\".\n\nOther food products often produced by extrusion include some breads (croutons, bread sticks, and flat breads), various ready-to-eat snacks, pre-made cookie dough, some baby foods, some beverages, and dry and semi-moist pet foods. Specific examples include cheese curls, macaroni, Fig Newtons, jelly beans, sevai, and some french fries. Extrusion is also used to modify starch and to pellet animal feed.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11591473", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11591473", "title": "Guy R. Pelton", "text": "Guy R. Pelton\n\nGuy Ray Pelton (August 3, 1824 – July 24, 1890) was a U.S. Representative to the thirty-fourth Congress from New York. Born in Great Barrington, Massachusetts, he was the second son of Joseph Kneeland Pelton and his wife Harriet Ray. He attended the public schools and Sedgwick Institution in Great Barrington, Mass., the Connecticut Literary Institute in Suffield, Connecticut, and Oberlin College. He studied law at Kinderhook, N.Y. He was admitted to the bar and commenced practice in New York City in 1851 with his older brother, Timothy Dwight Pelton, in the law firm of G.R. & T.D. Pelton, at 167 Broadway. He was a member of the Union League Club.\n\nA Whig, Pelton was elected as an Opposition Party candidate to the Thirty-fourth Congress (March 4, 1855 – March 3, 1857) from New York City. During that time he served on the Committee of Commerce. He declined a second nomination for reelection in 1856 to the Thirty-fifth Congress.\n\nOn July 24, 1890, on his way home to Massachusetts from Alaska with his second wife, Angelina Scoville Pelton, Pelton died in Yellowstone National Park, Wyoming, while climbing Mary Mountain. He was interred in Mahaiwe Cemetery, Great Barrington, Massachusetts.\n"}
{"id": "57731593", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57731593", "title": "Henry Jebb", "text": "Henry Jebb\n\nSir Henry Jebb (died 1811) was the president of the Royal College of Surgeons in Ireland (RCSI) in 1800.\n"}
{"id": "43552374", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43552374", "title": "Ice Bucket Challenge", "text": "Ice Bucket Challenge\n\nThe Ice Bucket Challenge, sometimes called the ALS Ice Bucket Challenge, is an activity involving the dumping of a bucket of ice and water over a person's head, either by another person or self-administered, to promote awareness of the disease amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS, also known as motor neuron disease and in the US as Lou Gehrig's disease) and encourage donations to research. It went viral on social media during July–August 2014. In the US, many people participated for the ALS Association, and in the UK, many people participated for the Motor Neurone Disease Association, although some individuals opted to donate their money from the Ice Bucket Challenge to other organizations.\n\nThe challenge encourages nominated participants to be filmed having a bucket of ice water poured on their heads and then nominating others to do the same. A common stipulation is that nominated participants have 24 hours to comply or forfeit by way of a charitable financial donation.\n\nOn August 1, 2015, a group of ALS organizations in the United States, including the ALS Association, Les Turner ALS Foundation, and ALS Therapy Development Institute, re-introduced the Ice Bucket Challenge for 2015 to raise further funds with the intention of establishing it as an annual occurrence. Accordingly, people performed the challenge again in the summers of 2016, 2017 and 2018.\n\nThe origins of the idea of dumping cold water on one's head to raise money for charity are unclear and have been attributed to multiple sources. The most commonly accepted origin credits Pete Frates, a Boston College alumnus who was diagnosed with ALS in March 2012. Pat Quinn, a friend of Frates who was diagnosed with ALS in 2013, is also credited with creating the challenge. Another friend of Frates, Corey Griffin, has been credited as a \"co-founder\" of the challenge.\n\nFrom mid-2013 to early 2014, a challenge of unknown origin often called the \"Cold Water Challenge\" became popular on social media in areas of the Northern United States. The task usually involved the option of either donating money to cancer research or having to jump into cold water. According to the \"Wall Street Journal\", the Ice Bucket Challenge was begun by professional golfers as means to support various pet charities.\n\nOne version of the challenge, which took place in Salem, Indiana, as early as May 15, 2014, involved dousing participants with cold water and then donating to a charity, for example a local child diagnosed with an inoperable brain tumor. In another version, the Auckland Division of the Cancer Society of New Zealand was the beneficiary. As with similar challenges, it was usually filmed so footage can be shared online.\n\nThe National Fallen Firefighters Foundation popularized the \"Cold Water Challenge\" in early 2014 to raise funds as an unsanctioned spin-off of the polar plunge most widely used by Special Olympics as a fundraiser.\n\nOn May 20, 2014, the Washington Township, New Jersey, fire department posted a video on YouTube participating in the \"Cold Water Challenge\" with fire hoses. Participating members of the department were subsequently punished for using fire department equipment without permission.\n\nThe challenge first received increased media attention in the United States on June 30, 2014, when personalities of the Golf Channel program \"Morning Drive\" televised the social-media phenomenon, and performed a live, on-air Ice Bucket Challenge.\n\nSoon after, the challenge was brought to mainstream audiences when television anchor Matt Lauer did the Ice Bucket Challenge on July 15, 2014, on NBC's \"The Today Show\" at Greg Norman's challenge.\n\nOn the same day, golfer Chris Kennedy did the challenge, then challenged his cousin Jeanette Senerchia of Pelham, New York, whose husband, Anthony, had ALS for 11 years. Kennedy's challenge was the first documented instance of the challenge being connected with ALS. At this time, the challenge was not connected directly with ALS. Participants would donate to a charity of their choice.\nPat Quinn, who was friends on Facebook with the Senerchias, encouraged his friends to take the challenge, and soon after, Pete Frates began posting about the challenge on Twitter. Frates was awarded the Stephen Heywood Patients Today Award in 2012 for his fundraising and advocacy work. Frates' Boston College and sporting connections became an initial focus of the challenge and strengthened its focus on ALS. Both Quinn and Frates did the challenge in support of the ALS Therapy Development Institute. After its initial start with Peter Frates, the movement went viral in the Boston area which showed a much higher number of posts than any other area of the United States.\n\nIn his video, Stephen Hawking declined to perform the challenge due to pneumonia the year before; however, his three children took the challenge for him.\n\nThe President of the United States, Barack Obama, was challenged by Ethel Kennedy but declined, opting to contribute to the campaign with a donation of $100. Justin Bieber (who was criticized for not properly doing the challenge), LeBron James, and \"Weird Al\" Yankovic also challenged President Obama after completing the Ice Bucket Challenge. Former President George W. Bush completed the challenge and nominated fellow former President Bill Clinton. The Prime Minister of the United Kingdom, David Cameron, was challenged by both Alex Salmond and Russell Brand, but also declined in favor of a donation.\n\nThe Ice Bucket Challenge was a successful campaign. Its combination of competitiveness, social media pressure, online narcissism, and low barriers to entry led to more than 2.4 million tagged videos circulating Facebook. Even though 40–50% of the new donors were likely to make one-time gifts only, the Challenge instigated large numbers of people, videos, and donations. The challenge also benefited from a unique balance of mass interest and individual identification. In using social media as its platform, it accessed many people worldwide; in having its participants individually identify potential candidates – calling them out by \"tagging\" them – it felt personal. Furthermore, the videos were often entertaining. The average participants kept their videos under a minute, requiring limited commitment from any viewers. Another concept the Challenge benefited from was its ripple effect, inspiring features for articles, such as \"The Guardian\"s \"10 More of the Best Celebrity Takes on the Ice Bucket Challenge.\" Despite its marketing success, critics suggested that the ease of repeating the challenge's spiel do not increase awareness of what the disease actually does and who it is so harmful to.\n\nThe success of the challenge prompted the Muscular Dystrophy Association, which also raises funds to combat ALS, to discontinue its long-running annual telethon, the \"MDA Show of Strength\", after the 2014 edition, stating that the Ice Bucket Challenge prompted the MDA to reevaluate how it can connect with the public.\n\nIn 2017, Frates published a book about the Ice Bucket Challenge detailing his own experience with ALS as well as his involvement in the social movement. Half of the proceeds will go to the Frates family.\n\nOn August 1, 2015, a group of ALS organizations in the United States, including the ALS Association, relaunched the Ice Bucket Challenge for 2015. The group said they intended to rerun the campaign \"this August, and every August, until there's a cure (for ALS).\" \"We have to finish what started last summer: every August until there's a cure,\" said Barb Newhouse, President and CEO of the ALS Association.\n\nThe 2015 campaign received the support of Major League Baseball, with each club due to organise its own branch of the Challenge and then nominate another franchise, along with two other local organizations or personalities, to participate in the Challenge. \"We are so thrilled and grateful to have every Major League Baseball team supporting us this year,\" commented Frates.\n\nCelebrity participants in the 2015 challenge included Massachusetts governor Charlie Baker who took the challenge while wearing a \"Free Brady\" T-shirt (calling for the lifting of the suspension given to Tom Brady of the New England Patriots over Deflategate), Bieber once again, actor Hugh Jackman (belatedly in early September 2015) and actress Renee Zellweger who, in response to criticisms of the challenge for wasting water in drought conditions, used water from a drinking trough in a horse stables while standing in the trough to ensure every last drop was recycled back into its original source. President Barack Obama also received another nomination, this time by former New Orleans Saints player Steve Gleason (himself diagnosed with ALS). Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump, despite having done the challenge in 2014, emphatically turned down his 2015 nomination from Boston mayor Marty Walsh, labelling Walsh \"a clown\" and suggesting that Boston \"get a new mayor.\"\n\nIn the UK, the MND Association declined to revive the challenge. \"We felt we raised a significant amount of money and awareness last summer. While people might be keen to do it again, we wouldn't say please do it again,\" said Chris James, the Association's director of external affairs. Instead, the Association ran a \"Last Summer\" campaign commemorating the efforts of the public with the challenge, including the testimonies of ALS sufferers. Despite the reluctance of the MND Association, the cast of soap opera \"Hollyoaks\" nonetheless performed the challenge, nominating the cast of another soap, \"Casualty\". Eddie Redmayne, having been nominated by Zellweger, also accepted the challenge for a second year, filming his video in London and nominating Charlie Cox, who did his 2015 challenge in New York. An attempt at the world record for the largest number of people simultaneously performing the challenge took place 6 September 2015 in Tewkesbury as part of a fundraiser for child bereavement charity Winton's Wish. In the event, the world record of 428 remained untouched but a new UK record of 248 people was set. TV presenter Eamonn Holmes performed the challenge in early October on This Morning after announcing he would do so while hosting the Pride of Britain Awards a few days earlier.\n\nBy early October, it was reported that the 2015 challenge had raised $500,000 as compared with the $115 million raised by the 2014 challenge. The final figure was reported by the ALS Association in mid-October as being $1,000,000, with a survey by health analysts Treato showing that only 14% of donors from 2014 donated again in 2015.\n\nAustralian Deputy Prime Minister Barnaby Joyce performed the challenge in 2016, nominating his colleague Michael McCormack, the Minister for Small Business. Fellow Australian MP Adam Marshall also performed the challenge. A new variant on the challenge this year, the \"What's In Your Bucket?\" challenge, featured the replacement of the ice cubes with other substances, including tomato ketchup, spaghetti, pickles, beer, baby powder, coffee, and sand. A further attempt on the world record for the largest mass Ice Bucket Challenge in Buffalo, New York drew 650 participants, 71 short of the existing record of 721.\n\nCharlie Baker, governor of Massachusetts, formalized the annual challenge by signing a bill declaring the first week of August each year to be Ice Bucket Challenge Week. MND South Australia held an Ice Bucket Challenge campaign in February (during the Southern hemispheric summer) Pete Frates' family joined with the Beverly Police Department to hold an Ice Bucket Challenge event on 27 August in which family members and officers took part.\n\nIn June 2018 in Seoul, South Korea the Challenge raised funds to build Korea's first dedicated hospital for ALS patients. The Empire City Casino in Yonkers announced it would hold a Challenge event for the fifth year running. Political participants this year included US State Senator Joan Lovely.\n\nWithin 24 hours of being challenged, participants have to record a video of themselves in continuous footage. First, they are to announce their acceptance of the challenge, followed by pouring ice into a bucket of water. Then, the bucket is to be lifted and poured over the participant's head.\nThen the participant can nominate a minimum of three other people to participate in the challenge.\n\nWhether people choose to donate, perform the challenge, or do both varies.\n\nIn one version of the challenge, the participant was expected to donate $10 if they poured the ice water over their head or donate $100 if they did not. In a UK version, people who performed the challenge donated £3 and those who did not perform it paid £10. In another version, dumping the ice water over the participant's head was done in lieu of any donation, which led to some criticisms of the challenge being a form of \"slacktivism\". Many participants donated $100 in addition to doing the challenge.\n\nIn mid-2014, the Ice Bucket Challenge went viral on social media, particularly in the United States, with people, celebrities, politicians and athletes posting videos of themselves online and on TV participating in the event. According to \"The New York Times\", people shared more than 1.2 million videos on Facebook between June 1 and August 13 and mentioned the phenomenon more than 2.2 million times on Twitter between July 29 and August 17. At its peak, the challenge generated more than 70,000 tweets per day with hashtags such as #IceBucketChallenge, #ALSIceBucketChallenge, and #StrikeOutALS. Mashable called the phenomenon \"the Harlem Shake of the summer\".\n\nPrior to the challenge, public awareness of the disease amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) was relatively limited; the ALS Association stated that prior to the challenge going viral only half of Americans had heard of the disease, often referred to as \"Lou Gehrig's disease\", after the famous baseball player Lou Gehrig, who publicly revealed his diagnosis in 1939. After the Ice Bucket Challenge went viral on social media, public awareness and charitable donations to ALS charities soared. Hits to the English Wikipedia's article on amyotrophic lateral sclerosis grew from an average of 163,300 views per month to 2.89 million views in August 2014, and similar increases occurred in the Spanish and German Wikipedias.\n\nWithin weeks of the challenge going viral, \"The New York Times\" reported that the ALS Association had received $41.8 million in donations from more than 739,000 new donors from July 29 until August 21, more than double the $19.4 million the association received during the year that ended January 31, 2013. On August 29, the ALS Association announced that their total donations since July 29 had exceeded $100 million. The ALS Association is just one of several ALS-related charities that have benefited from the challenge:\n\nWhile the Ice Bucket Challenge raised much in donations, studies show that the majority of participants did not actually donate. In the UK, one in every six people participated, but only ten percent of the participants donated, according to the Charities Aid Foundation. The percentage was higher in the US, but the majority still did not donate.\n\nIn July 2015, the \"Huffington Post\" reported on the ALS Association's summary of how the funds raised through the Ice Bucket Challenge were distributed. By percentage, 67% of all funds (about $77 million) went to research, 20% to patient and community services, 9% to public and professional education, 2% to additional fundraising, and 2% to external processing fees.\n\nOn July 25, 2016, the ALS Association announced that, thanks in part to donations from the Ice Bucket Challenge, the University of Massachusetts Medical School has identified a third gene that is a cause for the disease. Project MinE, a global gene sequencing effort to identify genetic drivers of ALS, received $1 million from the challenge, allowing them to broaden the scope of their research to include new sources in new parts of the world. Having identified the link between the gene, NEK1, and ALS will allow for a new targeted gene for therapy development, as well as focused drug development.\n\nSeveral other challenges have been created and publicised as a result of the publicity of the Ice Bucket Challenge. The My Tree Challenge is an activity launched in Kerala which consists of planting a tree sapling and challenging others to do so. The My Tree Challenge was preceded by a Book List Challenge, started by Facebook users, where users post a list of books that they have read and liked the most. The Rice Bucket Challenge, that started in India in late August 2014 and later spread to other South Asian nations, was also partly a response to the Ice Bucket Challenge's wastefulness of water. The \"Pie In The Eye Challenge\" challenges the nominated person to receive a pie in the face. One particular occurrence of this, the late 2016 Waitress Pie Challenge, was initiated by the cast of the musical Waitress to raise awareness of breast cancer. The Milk Bucket Challenge in which milk is poured over the nominated person, was organised in August 2015 by English dairy farmers to raise awareness of their financial plight. The Rubble Bucket Challenge, started by Jordanian comedian Mohammed Darwaza, involves dumping a bucket of sand and rocks over one's head. This challenge was further popularized by Palestinian journalist Aymal al Aloul, and aims to increase awareness of Gazans who have lost their homes in the ongoing conflict with Israel. The Love Bucket Challenge, started by Kerala newspaper Malayala Manorama encourages people to fill a bucket with items to donate to orphanages. The Kaapi Challenge uses coffee, and is a challenge done primarily by the Chennai Super Kings to commemorate the 375th anniversary of the city of Chennai.\n\nA number of criticisms arose relating to the campaign, accusing it of being self-congratulatory, focusing primarily on fun rather than donating money to charity, and substituting a trivial activity for more genuine involvement in charitable activities. Writing in \"The Daily Telegraph\", Willard Foxton described the challenge as \"a middle-class wet T-shirt contest for armchair clicktivists\", and the \"Evening Standard Magazine\" said that \"it has become less about raising funds and all about showing off your star-pulling power\".\n\nOn August 28, 2014, it was reported that the ALS Association had filed an application to trademark the term \"ice bucket challenge\", but the application was retracted amid criticism a day later.\n\nWilliam MacAskill, Vice-President of Giving What We Can, an organization that advocates for people to engage in more effective altruism, was critical of the Ice Bucket Challenge, citing two chief objections. First, he claimed that the Ice Bucket Challenge resulted in \"funding cannibalism\": \"for every $1 we raise, 50¢ would have been donated anyway\". Relatedly, MacAskill claimed that the challenge encouraged moral licensing, whereby people who engage in one act they consider good may feel more licensed to engage in bad behavior. MacAskill's piece met with considerable critical push-back, and he published a follow-up a few days later suggesting an Ice Bucket Challenge for causes he considered more important and cost-effective to support. Citing research from GiveWell, MacAskill gave the example of donating to the Against Malaria Foundation to end malaria. MacAskill's pieces were cited in \"Forbes\", \"Nonprofit Quarterly\", and \"Boston Review\".\n\nJulia Belluz at Vox.com wrote a piece with similar criticisms, linking to MacAskill's piece. Belluz noted that funding for diseases was often not proportional to the number of deaths caused by the diseases. She also noted that donating to developing world health causes could provide much greater healthcare value than donating for the treatment of rare diseases, an observation that is common in the effective altruism movement.\n\nIn the BBC's \"More or Less\" podcast, economist Tim Harford discussed the Ice Bucket Challenge and how to select the best charities, referencing work by GiveWell. He himself participated in the Ice Bucket Challenge, donating to the Schistosomiasis Control Initiative. Ben Carter and Keith Moore wrote an article for the BBC News drawing on the arguments made in the podcast.\n\nRetired professional wrestler Lance Storm declined the challenge despite being nominated twice, and posted a note on his official website stating that most of the money that is donated goes towards promotional and advertising of the ALS Association while the remaining amount (at most 25% of what is donated) \"is going into the pockets of Big Pharma\", which is already doing ALS research and is therefore inflating their already-high profits. Storm went on to comment that it would be better to actually help someone with ALS and donate money directly to ALS patients. The ALS Association responded to similar criticisms by saying that 79% of their annual budget went toward programs in the past year.\n\nMembers of the pro-life movement, such as Lila Rose of Live Action, criticised donations to the ALS Association, because it uses embryonic stem cells in its ALS research. Related organisations such as the Family Research Council suggested that people participating in the Ice Bucket Challenge instead donate money to Midwest Stem Cell Therapy Center, Mayo Clinic, and the John Paul II Medical Research Institute, all three of which run clinical trials with adult stem cells, rather than embryonic ones. The Archdiocese of Cincinnati, with its 113 schools also recommended individuals participating in the Ice Bucket Challenge to donate to such groups, but not to the ALS Association \"saying the group's funding of embryonic stem cell research is 'in direct conflict with Catholic teaching'.\"\n\nPETA criticized the ALS Association's Ice Bucket Challenge, saying that money raised through the fundraiser would be used to fund \"archaic and painful tests on animals.\" Russell Simmons, Pamela Anderson, and Grimes, among other celebrities, also criticized the ALS Association's fundraiser for its support of animal testing. Anderson wrote on her Facebook page, \"Trying to cure human diseases by relying on outdated and ineffective animal experiments isn't only cruel – it's a grave disservice to people who desperately need cures.\"\n\nAmerican stunt performer and TV personality Steve-O questioned the campaign, suggesting that celebrities' videos generally forgot to share donation information for ALS charities, and that the initial $15 million in funds was insignificant, given the star power of the celebrities participating. He noted that, of the videos he viewed, only Charlie Sheen and Bill Gates mentioned that the point is to donate money. A similar criticism was made by Jacob Davidson in \"Time Magazine\" and by Arielle Pardes in \"Vice\". More and more charities seem to be competing with one another to see which charity receives the most donations. This becomes a problem as competitive fundraising destroys value for the social sector as a whole.\n\nOn August 22, 2014, Dr. Brian O'Neill, a physician at the Detroit Medical Center, warned that the challenge may have adverse health effects on participants, including potentially inducing a vagal response which might, for example, lead to unconsciousness in people taking blood pressure medications. A number of participants have sustained injuries, and at least one death has been indirectly linked to the challenge, as a result of injuries sustained unrelated to the dumping of ice water, with another death thought to be caused by a variation on the challenge, jumping feet first into ice water.\n\n\"Michael's Story\" was a campaign poster from the UK MND Association's summer 2015 \"Last Summer\" first anniversary campaign which featured Michael Smith. He had not taken part in the Ice Bucket Challenge and was subsequently diagnosed with motor neurone disease. This caused controversy, with some critics saying that the poster was implying that Smith had deserved his illness for his previous non-participation. The claims were strongly refuted by the Association and by Smith himself.\n\nMeteorologist Jason Samenow estimated that during the peak of the movement's popularity in 2014, the equivalent of 5,000,000 gallons of water would have been used for the challenge. This calculation assumes that the average of one 4-gallon bucket of water was used per video for the 1.2 million challenge videos which were posted during that time.\n\nIn January 2014, Governor Jerry Brown (CA) declared California to be in a drought state of emergency. This state of emergency was still in place as the Ice Bucket Challenge became most popular, and many local news stations in California took to criticizing the Challenge's unnecessary waste of water. Also at the time in China, various regions (including the important crop-producing Henan province) experienced months of extreme drought during the summer of 2014. On August 22, 2014, citizens of Henan stood together to protest the challenge, with signs that said \"Henan, please say 'NO' to Ice Bucket Challenge.\"\n\nTo prevent wasting water by using drinkable water, many performed the ALS Ice Bucket Challenge by using natural water sources. Carole King performed the challenge using creek water that was immediately returned to the creek, and the Killer Clown, a YouTube personality, performed the challenge using rainwater. In response to the criticisms in California, some Californians performed the challenge by using dirt instead of water.\n\nSome ALS organizations, such as the ALS Therapy Development Institute, has published guidelines for the Ice Bucket Challenge to minimize water usage by alternatives, like \"filling the bucket with socks.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42970379", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42970379", "title": "John D. Boice Jr.", "text": "John D. Boice Jr.\n\nJohn Dunning Boice Jr. is an American radiation epidemiologist and health physicist. He served for over 27 years in the US Public Health Service where he developed and became the first chief of the Radiation Epidemiology Branch at the National Cancer Institute. Boice's \"seminal discoveries and over 440 publications have been used to formulate public health measures to reduce population exposure to radiation and prevent radiation-associated diseases.\" He is the President of the National Council on Radiation Protection and Measurements (NCRP), Bethesda, Maryland, and Professor of Medicine at Vanderbilt University School of Medicine.\n\nBoice was born in Brooklyn, New York in December 1945. His father, John Dunning Boice Sr., served in the United States Army Air Corps. His mother, Irene, was the daughter of a Pennsylvania coal miner. His father's career necessitated frequent moves for the family during Boice's childhood including three years in France. The family settled in El Paso, Texas when he was fourteen. After graduating from Bel Air High School in the city, he enrolled at Texas Western College (now University of Texas at El Paso) graduating in 1967 with a bachelor's degree in physics and mathematics. He went on to receive a master's degree from Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute in nuclear engineering in 1968 and the following year was commissioned as an officer in the US Public Health Service.\n\nDuring his early years with the Public Health Service, he continued his post-graduate studies at the Harvard School of Public Health, receiving a second master's degree in medical physics in 1974 and his Doctor of Science degree in epidemiology in 1977. His doctoral thesis was entitled \"Breast cancer and other malignancies following repeated fluoroscopic chest examinations\". He went on to develop the Radiation Epidemiology Branch at the National Cancer Institute and became its first director in 1984. Boice retired from the Public Health Service in 1996 with the rank of Captain and became Scientific Director of the International Epidemiology Institute, a biomedical research organization founded in 1994. Since 2000, he has been Professor of Medicine at Vanderbilt University. Since 2012 he has served as President of the National Council on Radiation Protection and Measurements.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48489359", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48489359", "title": "John Mershon", "text": "John Mershon\n\nJohn Valentine Mershon (July 7, 1867 – 1953) was an American Orthodontist who graduated from Angle School of Orthodontia in 1908. He is the past President of American Association of Orthodontists. Dr. Mershon helped organize First International Orthodontic Congress in 1926 and served as its honorary president.\n\nHe was born in Penn Manor District in Lancaster, Pennsylvania in 1867. He obtained his dental degree from Pennsylvania College of Dental Surgery in 1889. He served as a faculty at the school for many years and also practice as a private dentist in the area. He married Harriet Lane Worrall in 1896. He then attended Angle School of Orthodontia in 1908 and then became one of the first orthodontist in eastern Pennsylvania. He also served as Head of Orthodontics at the University of Pennsylvania from 1916 to 1925. He served as President of American Association of Orthodontists, the Northeastern Society of Orthodontists, the Philadelphia Orthodontic Society where he was their first President, and the Philadelphia Academy of Stomatology.\n\nDr. Mershon was credited in organizing short refresher and extension courses for the members of the dental societies. He also developed the Removable lingual arch Appliance. In honor of Dr. Mershon, in 1960 American Association of Orthodontists established an annual series of lectures\n\n"}
{"id": "20257648", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20257648", "title": "Lac de Chambon", "text": "Lac de Chambon\n\nThe Lac de Chambon (\"Chambon Lake\") is an artificial lake on the Creuse River, France, created by the Eguzon dam, a hydroelectric dam. Beaches have been created around the lake, the largest in the Centre Region. There is a sailing school on the lake near Eguzon. Canoes, kayaks and pedalos can be hired in season. The lake is also very popular with waterskiers and anglers.\n\nIt is not to be confused with Lac Chambon in the Puy-de-Dôme department or Lac du Chambon in the Isère department.\n"}
{"id": "57959809", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57959809", "title": "List of Egyptian mummies (officials, nobles, and commoners)", "text": "List of Egyptian mummies (officials, nobles, and commoners)\n\nThe following is a list of mummies that have been found in Egypt dating to the Pharaoh dynasties. This list includes people who were considered to be court officials, nobles, or commoners by historians. Some of these mummies have been found to be remarkably intact, while others have been damaged from tomb robbers and environmental conditions.\n\nThe following entries are mummies that have no conclusive identity. In the interim they have been given either nicknames or assumed names by historians until further research can be done. \n\n"}
{"id": "52117030", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52117030", "title": "Local Optical Committee", "text": "Local Optical Committee\n\nLocal Optical Committees are statutory bodies established within the British National Health Service to represent the interests of community optometrists and opticians. There are 78 Local Optical Committees in England. They are supported by the Local Optical Committee Support Unit which provides a link to the national bodies the Association of British Dispensing Opticians, the Association of Optometrists and the Federation of (Ophthalmic and Dispensing) Opticians.\n\nThe local committees are descended from the Ophthalmic Services Committees established by clause 41 of the National Health Service Act 1946. A Joint Council of Qualified Opticians was established as part of the National Health Insurance Scheme in 1923. The Ophthalmic Benefit Approved Committee was established in 1927.\n\n "}
{"id": "4946781", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4946781", "title": "Longerakvatnet", "text": "Longerakvatnet\n\nLongerakvatnet or Longeraksvatnet is a lake in the municipality of Bygland in Aust-Agder county, Norway. It has a small dam on the southwest side to regulate the water level for hydro-electric power generation at a plant located down the hill. The lake discharges into the Longeraksåni river which flows into the Byglandsfjorden near the village of Longerak. The lake is located about southeast of the village of Lauvdal and about northeast of the village of Byglandsfjord.\n\n"}
{"id": "53444144", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53444144", "title": "Maltos-Cannabis", "text": "Maltos-Cannabis\n\nMaltos-Cannabis was a Swedish hemp seed-based malt beverage \"food remedy\" with sedative qualities produced beginning around the late 19th century into the early 20th century. The product was widely available in Sweden, Denmark, and Norway, and was advertised and reviewed in American publications. An 1899 pharmaceutical reference book printed in Philadelphia defined the product: \"A Swedish nutrient in form of a yellowish-white powder, possessing a taste at first saline, later sweetish, and then acrid and bitter.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "33966160", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33966160", "title": "Micromixing", "text": "Micromixing\n\nIn pharmaceutics, micromixing is a process in which ingredient particles rearrange to form a blend. Development of pharmaceutical formulations requires understanding how the ingredients blend with each other and how the blending progresses through different stages. It is also important to establish in a scientific manner when the blending is considered complete, establishing the margins of blending performance, so that in production the blending is complete before the blending process stops.\n\nIn order to achieve optimal blending, the micromixing process must be studied to determine mixing parameters such as blending time, blending speed, type and size of blender. When blending is performed too long, overblending may occur, with particles re-aggregating, resulting in segregation of the previously ideal blend.\n\nFormulation scientists and technologists need tools to select ingredients for new formulations. Tablets contain multiple ingredients beyond the active pharmaceutical ingredients (API) such as fillers, tableting agents, disintegrants, and absorption enhancers or agents that slow down and control absorption. Choice of materials is important to assure the flow characteristics, potency, and absorption of specific formulations. In addition, proper particle size grades of the ingredients must be selected to produce an optimum blend for capsule filling.\n\nIn order to study the rate and uniformity of blending, destructive analytical methods, such as dissolution followed by chromatographic separation and detection are often used. These methods require samples to be pulled from the blend, followed by time consuming laboratory analysis. In production, such analysis delays may lengthen time required for production formulation development.\n\nNear-infrared hyperspectral imaging can show the distribution of ingredients in pharmaceutical tablets. In addition to laboratory analysis, imaging of near line pull-samples has been used to indicate whether the mixing endpoint has been achieved. However, such measurements were performed once blending was completed, and therefore, did not yield information about the progression of micromixing during the blending process.\n\n"}
{"id": "47700761", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47700761", "title": "Milan Sedláček", "text": "Milan Sedláček\n\nMilan Sedláček (1 October 1961 – 20 May 2012) was a Czech mountaineer. In 2002, he climbed his first eight-thousander Shishapangma. In 2005 and 2007 respectively he unsuccessfully tried to climb K2. In 2010, he tried to climb Lhotse but reached only 7,800 m. He died on the descent of Lhotse in 2012.\n"}
{"id": "45248330", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45248330", "title": "Miroslav Šmíd", "text": "Miroslav Šmíd\n\nMiroslav Šmíd, Ing. (1952, Police nad Metují, Czechoslovakia – 11 September 1993, Lost Arrow, Yosemite National Park, USA) was a Czech rock climber, solo climber, mountaineer, mountain cinematographer and photographer. He also organized climbing and cultural events. In 1981 he founded The International Festival of Mountaineering Films () in Teplice nad Metují. He also wrote several books.\n\nHe started climbing in the Ostaš climbing area and continued in Adršpach-Teplice Rocks, where he climbed a number of famous first ascents. In the High Tatras, Slovakia, he completed 230 ascents (80 of which were in winter and 25 first ascents, including a solo ascent of the Poslední dostih route on Veľká Javorová veža in 1976). In Scotland he completed the first winter ascent of the Glover’s Chimney route on Ben Nevis in 1981. He also completed several solo climbs in Caucasus. He tried to make his solo climbs a secret as they were not approved of by the Socialist Party officials who lead the country at that time. When the solo ascents were revealed, it was very difficult to settle the disagreement. Still, Šmíd received an honor for his sport activities despite the solo climbing controversy.\n\nMiroslav Šmíd climbed in various mountain areas and made a number of important ascents: the Alps (first ascent in the north face of Eiger in winter in 1978), the Dolomites (north face of Cima Grande in 1975), Norway (Trollryggen in winter 1976), Caucasus (solo winter ascent of Donguz Orun 1983), Pamir Mountains (solo ascent of Peak Korzhenevskaya in 1977 and first ascent in 1979), Fann Mountains, Andes (first ascent of Yerupajá Sur, solo climb, 1980) Yosemite (solo ascent of Dihedral Wall on El Capitan 1978), Patagonia (Fitz Roy and Cerro Torre, 1990) and Alaska (Mount McKinley 1989, 1991 and 1993) He ascended Mount Kenya in Africa in 1986. He also participated in expeditions to the Himalayas (Lhotse Shar, Dhaulagiri 1984, Mount Everest 1987) He also undertook demanding solo ascents (e.g. Ama Dablam in 1986).\n\nŠmíd was allured by everything adventurous, and he also became a pioneer of mountain paragliding in Czechoslovakia. His well-known descent from the Bzeduch Mountain in the Caucasus mountain range resulted in serious injury (broken pelvis) after landing on a moraine.\n\nŠmíd died on 11 September 1993 during unclear circumstances while solo climbing on the Lost Arrow in Yosemite National Park. Apparently he fell just below the top while he climbed unbelayed. All his equipment was found on the last ledge below the top. The body was found at the bottom of the gorge, between the massifs and the spire, by one of his friends. On the basis of the identification of the denture, it was proclaimed to be Šmíd’s body.\n"}
{"id": "6160857", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6160857", "title": "Mowgli syndrome", "text": "Mowgli syndrome\n\n“Mowgli syndrome” is a term used by Wendy Doniger O’Flaherty in her 1995 book \"Other Peoples’ Myths: The Cave of Echoes\" to describe mythological figures who succeed in bridging the animal and human worlds to become one with nature, a human animal, only to become trapped between the two worlds, not completely animal yet not entirely human.\n\nIt is also a rarely used descriptive term for so-called feral children; “Mowgli syndrome” is not a recognized psychological or physiological malady. The term originates from the character Mowgli, a fictional feral child from Rudyard Kipling’s \"The Jungle Book\".\n\n"}
{"id": "47637100", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47637100", "title": "Nickel titanium rotary file", "text": "Nickel titanium rotary file\n\nA nickel titanium (NiTi) rotary file is an engine-driven tapered and pointed endodontic instrument made of nickel titanium alloy with cutting edges used to mechanically shape and prepare the root canals during endodontic therapy or to remove the root canal obturating material while performing retreatment. The first NiTi file was introduced to the market in 1991. Superelasticity and shape memory are the properties that make Niti files very flexible. The high flexibility of Niti files makes them superior to stainless steel files for the purpose of rotary root canal preparation. The use of NiTi rotary files in dentistry is a common practice.\n\nThe main components of a rotary NiTi file are tip size, taper, flutes, helix angle and measuring stop. There can be other features such as redial lands and measuring lines incorporated in some designs.\n\n\nSeparation of Niti rotary files happens due to torsional failure, cyclic fatigue or the combination of both in clinical practice.\n\n\nIt has been found that the decision to discard a rotary file after being used with regard to prevention of file separation is dependent on operator's skills and judgment.\n"}
{"id": "6989424", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6989424", "title": "Pharmacoeconomics", "text": "Pharmacoeconomics\n\nPharmacoeconomics refers to the scientific discipline that compares the value of one pharmaceutical drug or drug therapy to another. It is a sub-discipline of health economics. A pharmacoeconomic study evaluates the cost (expressed in monetary terms) and effects (expressed in terms of monetary value, efficacy or enhanced quality of life) of a pharmaceutical product. Pharmacoeconomic studies serve to guide optimal healthcare resource allocation, in a standardized and scientifically grounded manner.\n\nPharmacoeconomics centers on the economic evaluation of pharmaceuticals, and can use cost-minimization analysis, cost-benefit analysis, cost-effectiveness analysis or cost-utility analysis. Quality-adjusted life years have become the dominant outcome of interest in pharmacoeconomic evaluations, and many studies employ a cost-per-QALY analysis. Economic evaluations are carried out alongside randomized controlled trials and using methods of decision-analytic modeling. Pharmacoeconomics is a useful method of economic evaluation of various treatment options. As more expensive drugs are being developed and licensed it has become imperative especially in context of developing countries where resources are scarce to apply the principles of pharmacoeconomics for various drugs and treatment options so that maximum improvement in quality of life can be achieved in minimum cost.\n\nIn 1993, Australia became the first nation to use pharmacoeconomic analysis as part of the process for deciding whether new drugs should be subsidized by the Federal Government. The Pharmaceutical Benefits Advisory Committee (PBAC) advises Federal Government ministers on whether new drugs should be placed on a list for of drugs that consumers can then purchase from pharmacies at a subsidized price. Since 1993, this approach to evaluating costs and benefits is used in Canada, Finland, New Zealand, Norway, Sweden, and the UK.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "939814", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=939814", "title": "Phlebitis", "text": "Phlebitis\n\nPhlebitis or venitis is the inflammation of a vein, usually in the legs. It most commonly occurs in superficial veins. Phlebitis often occurs in conjunction with thrombosis and is then called thrombophlebitis or superficial thrombophlebitis. Unlike deep vein thrombosis, the probability that superficial thrombophlebitis will cause a clot to break up and be transported in pieces to the lung is very low.\n\n\nThere is usually a slow onset of a tender red area along the superficial veins on the skin. A long, thin red area may be seen as the inflammation follows a superficial vein. This area may feel hard, warm, and tender. The skin around the vein may be itchy and swollen. The area may begin to throb or burn. Symptoms may be worse when the leg is lowered, especially when first getting out of bed in the morning. A low-grade fever may occur. Sometimes phlebitis may occur where a peripheral intravenous line was started. The surrounding area may be sore and tender along the vein.\n\nPhlebitis is typically caused by local trauma to a vein, usually from the insertion of an intravenous catheter. However, it can also occur due to a complication of connective tissue disorders such as lupus, or of pancreatic, breast, or ovarian cancers. Phlebitis can also result from certain medications and drugs that irritate the veins, such as desomorphine.\n\nSuperficial phlebitis often presents as an early sign in thromboangiitis obliterans (Buerger's disease), a vasculitis that affects small and medium-sized arteries and veins in distal extremities often associated with cigarette smoking.\n\nTreatment usually consists of NSAIDs, such as ibuprofen and local compression (e.g., by compression stockings or a compress). If the phlebitis is associated with local bacterial infection, antibiotics may be used.\n\nFor acute infusion superficial thrombophlebitis, not enough evidence exists as of 2015 to determine treatment.\n\nPhlebitis was first described by the Scottish surgeon John Hunter in 1784.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1499164", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1499164", "title": "Public Health Cigarette Smoking Act", "text": "Public Health Cigarette Smoking Act\n\nThe Public Health Cigarette Smoking Act is a 1970 federal law in the United States designed to limit the practice of smoking. As approved by the United States Congress, the act required a stronger health warning on cigarette packages, saying \"Warning: The Surgeon General Has Determined that Cigarette Smoking Is Dangerous to Your Health\". It also banned cigarette advertisements on American radio and television.\n\nThe Public Health Cigarette Smoking Act was one of the major bills resulting from the by the Surgeon General, Luther Terry. The report found that lung cancer and chronic bronchitis are causally related to cigarette smoking. Congress previously passed the Cigarette Labeling and Advertising Act in 1965; requiring that all cigarette packages sold in the United States carry a health warning. But after a recommendation by the Federal Trade Commission, the Public Health Cigarette Smoking Act amended the 1965 law so that the warnings are made in the name of the Surgeon General.\n\nOne of the major advocates of the cigarette advertising ban was the Federal Communications Commission. The FCC argued that since the topic of smoking is controversial, numerous TV and radio stations continued to break the Fairness Doctrine when airing these commercials because they did not give equal time to the opposing viewpoint that smoking is dangerous.\n\nThe Public Health Cigarette Smoking Act was introduced into Congress in 1969, but it was not until April 1, 1970 when U.S. President Richard Nixon signed it into law. The actual cigarette advertising ban did not come into force until January 2, 1971, as per a compromise that allowed broadcasters to air these commercials during their telecasts of college football bowl games on New Year's Day. The last cigarette ad on U.S. television, advertising Virginia Slims, was carried on the last possible legal minute at 11:59 p.m ET/PT, 10:59 p.m. CT/MT that evening on NBC's \"The Tonight Show Starring Johnny Carson\".\n\nIn 1981, the FTC reported that the health warning labels as mandated by the Public Health Cigarette Smoking Act had little effect on American smoking habits. Congress therefore passed the Comprehensive Smoking Education Act of 1984, requiring more specific health warnings.\n\nThe tobacco industry has begun to use a variety of other marketing tools and strategies to influence people and attract new customers. In particular, ads targeted to adolescents affect their perceptions on the image and function of smoking. In 1991, the Journal of the American Medical Association published a study showing that more children aged 5 and 6 years old, could recognize Camel cigarettes' Joe Camel mascot than Mickey Mouse or Fred Flintstone. Camel increased its adolescent customer base dramatically, from less than 1% before 1988 to more than 13% in 1993. Tobacco sought protection from Congress so they could all leave broadcasting together without violating any anti-trust laws. The only lawsuit that followed was from a broadcaster in an effort to keep tobacco advertising on television and radio.\n"}
{"id": "180162", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=180162", "title": "Religion and abortion", "text": "Religion and abortion\n\nMany religious traditions have taken a stance on abortion, and these stances span a broad spectrum, as highlighted below.\n\nAbortion, for the purpose of eliminating an unwanted child, and permanent sterilization are generally forbidden to Bahá'ís unless there is some medical reason for it. At present, Bahá'ís are encouraged to decide based on their own conscience in light of general guidance found in Bahá'í writings.\n\nThere is no single Buddhist view concerning abortion. Some traditional sources, including some Buddhist monastic codes, hold that life begins at conception, and that abortion, which would then involve the deliberate destruction of life, should be rejected. Complicating the issue is the Buddhist belief that \"life is a continuum with no discernible starting point\". Among Buddhists, there is no official or preferred viewpoint regarding abortion.\n\nThe Dalai Lama has said that abortion is \"negative\", but there are exceptions. He said, \"I think abortion should be approved or disapproved according to each circumstance.\"\n\nInducing or otherwise causing an abortion is regarded as a serious matter in the monastic rules followed by both Theravada and Vajrayana monks; monks and nuns must be expelled for assisting a woman in procuring an abortion. Traditional sources do not recognize a distinction between early- and late-term abortion, but in Sri Lanka and Thailand the \"moral stigma\" associated with an abortion grows with the development of the foetus. While traditional sources do not seem to be aware of the possibility of abortion as relevant to the health of the mother, modern Buddhist teachers from many traditions – and abortion laws in many Buddhist countries – recognize a threat to the life or physical health of the mother as an acceptable justification for abortion as a practical matter, though it may still be seen as a deed with negative moral or karmic consequences.\n\nThere is scholarly disagreement on how early Christians felt about abortion, and no explicit prohibition of abortion in either the \"Old Testament\" or \"New Testament\" books of the Christian Bible. Some scholars have concluded that early Christians took a nuanced stance on what is now called abortion, and that at different times, and in separate places, early Christians have taken different stances. Other scholars have concluded that early Christians considered abortion a sin at all stages; although there is disagreement over their thoughts on what type of sin it was and how grave a sin it was held to be, it was seen as at least as grave as sexual immorality. Some early Christians believed that the embryo did not have a soul from conception, and consequently, opinion was divided as to whether or not early abortion was murder or ethically equivalent to murder.\n\nEarly church councils punished women for abortions that were combined with other sexual crimes, as well as makers of abortifacient drugs, but, like some early Church Fathers such as Basil of Caesarea, did not make distinction between \"formed\" and \"unformed\" foetuses. While Gregory of Nyssa and Maximus the Confessor held that human life already began at conception, Augustine of Hippo affirmed Aristotle's concepts of ensoulment occurring some time after conception, after which point abortion was to be considered homicide, while still maintaining the condemnation of abortion at any time from conception onward. Aquinas reiterated Aristotle's views of successive souls: vegetative, animal, and rational. This would be the Catholic Church's position until 1869, when the limitation of automatic excommunication to abortion of a \"formed\" foetus was removed, a change that has been interpreted as an implicit declaration that conception was the moment of ensoulment. Most early penitentials imposed equal penances for abortion whether early-term or late-term, but later penitentials in the Middle Ages normally distinguished between the two, imposing heavier penances for late-term abortions and a less severe penance was imposed for the sin of abortion <nowiki>\"before [the foetus] has life\".</nowiki>\n\nContemporary Christian denominations have nuanced positions, thoughts, and teachings about abortion, especially in extenuating circumstances. The Catholic Church, the Eastern Orthodox Church Oriental Orthodoxy, and most evangelical Protestants oppose deliberate abortion as immoral, while allowing what is sometimes called indirect abortion, namely, an action that does not seek the death of the foetus as an end or a means, but that is followed by the death as a side effect. Some mainline Protestant denominations such as the Methodist Church, United Church of Christ, Presbyterian Church (USA), and the Evangelical Lutheran Church of America, among others, are more permissive of abortion. More generally, some Christian denominations can be considered pro-life, while others may be considered pro-choice. Additionally, there are sizable minorities in some denominations that disagree with their denomination's stance on abortion.\n\nClassical Hindu texts strongly condemn abortion. The British Broadcasting Corporation writes, \"When considering abortion, the Hindu way is to choose the action that will do least harm to all involved: the mother and father, the foetus and society.\" The BBC goes on to state, \"In practice, however, abortion is practiced in Hindu culture in India, because the religious ban on abortion is sometimes overruled by the cultural preference for sons. This can lead to abortion to prevent the birth of girl babies, which is called 'female foeticide'.\" Hindu scholars and women's rights advocates have supported bans on sex-selective abortions. Some Hindus support abortion in cases where the mother's life is at imminent risk or when the foetus has a life-threatening developmental anomaly.\n\nSome Hindu theologians and Brahma Kumaris believe personhood begins at three months and develops through to five months of gestation, possibly implying permitting abortion up to the third month and considering any abortion past the third month to be destruction of the soul's current incarnate body.\n\nAlthough there are different opinions among Islamic scholars about when life begins, and when abortion is permissible, most agree that the termination of a pregnancy after 120 days - the point at which, in Islam, a foetus is thought to become a living soul - is not permissible. Several Islamic thinkers contend that in cases prior to four months of gestation, abortion should be permissible only in instances in which the mother's life is in danger or in cases of rape.\n\nSome schools of Muslim law permit abortion in the first sixteen weeks of pregnancy, whereas others only allow it in the first seven weeks of pregnancy. The further along the pregnancy has progressed, the greater the wrong. The Qur'an does not specifically mention abortion, but it skirts the issue by condemning intentional murder. All schools accept abortion as a means to save the mother's life.\n\nOrthodox Jewish teaching allows abortion if necessary to safeguard the life of the pregnant woman. While the Reform, Reconstructionist, and Conservative movements openly advocate for the right to a safe and accessible abortion, the Orthodox movement is less unified on the issue. Many Orthodox Jews oppose abortion, except when it is necessary to save a woman's life (or, according to some, the woman's health).\n\nIn Judaism, views on abortion draw primarily upon the legal and ethical teachings of the Hebrew Bible, the Talmud, the case-by-case decisions of responsa, and other rabbinic literature. Generally speaking, Orthodox Jews oppose abortion after the 40th day, with health-related exceptions, and reform Jews tend to allow greater latitude for abortion. There are rulings that often appear conflicting on the matter. The Talmud states that a foetus is not legally a person until it is delivered. The Torah contains the law that, \"When men fight, and one of them pushes a pregnant woman, and a miscarriage results, but no other misfortune, the one responsible shall be fined...but if other misfortune ensues, the penalty shall be life (nefesh) for life (nefesh).\" (). That is, causing a woman to miscarry is a crime, but not a capital crime, because the foetus is not considered a person.\n\nJeremiah 1:5 states that, \"Before I formed you in the womb, I knew you, before you were born, I set you apart; I appointed you as a prophet to the nations.\" For some, this verse, while talking specifically about Jeremiah, is an indication that God is aware of the identity of \"developing unborn human beings even before they enter the womb\", or that for everyone, God has a plan that abortion might be seen as frustrating. Others say that this interpretation is incorrect, and that the verse is not related to personhood or abortion, as Jeremiah is asserting his prophetic status as distinct and special.\n\nThe Hebrew Bible has a few references to abortion; Exodus 21:22-25 addresses miscarriage by way of another's actions, which it describes as a non-capital offense punishable through a fine. The Book of Numbers in the Hebrew Bible describes the Ordeal of the bitter water (\"sotah\") to be administered by a priest to a wife whose husband thinks she was unfaithful. Some scholars interpret the text as involving an abortifacient potion or otherwise that induces a miscarriage if the woman is pregnant with another man's child. Rabbinical scholar Arnold Ehrlich interprets the ordeal such that it ends either harmlessly if the woman is faithful, or with an induced abortion: \"the embryo falls\".\n\nAlthough the Sikh code of conduct does not deal directly with abortion (or indeed many other bioethical issues), it is generally forbidden in Sikhism because it is said to interfere with the creative work of God. Despite this theoretical viewpoint, abortion is not uncommon among the Sikh community in India, and there is growing concern that female foetuses are being aborted because of the cultural preference for sons.\n\nThe Unitarian Universalist Church strongly supports abortion rights. In 1978, the Unitarian Universalist Association passed a resolution that declared, \"...<nowiki>[the]</nowiki> right to choice on contraception and abortion are important aspects of the right of privacy, respect for human life, and freedom of conscience of women and their families\". The Association had released earlier statements in 1963 and 1968 favoring the reform of restrictive abortion laws.\n\nAlthough views differ, most Wiccans consider abortion to be a spiritual decision that should be free from interference by the state or politicians.\n\n"}
{"id": "15929990", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15929990", "title": "Rosanna Capolingua", "text": "Rosanna Capolingua\n\nRosanna Capolingua (born 1959) is an Australian doctor and former federal president of the Australian Medical Association (AMA). She served as president from 2007 to 2009.\n\nA graduate of the University of Western Australia, she was AMA (Western Australia) State President for two years and served on the Executive of the Federal AMA for four years. Dr. Capolingua is also Chair of the Federal AMA’s Ethics and Medico-Legal Committee and the AMA Publishing Company.\n\nShe currently works as a general practitioner in Western Australia. She occasionally writes newspaper columns for \"The West Australian\".\n\nCapolingua was once a member of the Liberal Party of Australia.\n\nCapolingua was for a long time a board member of Healthway, a government-funded health promotion organisation, and served as its chairman for a period of time. She resigned from the role in February 2015 after a Public Sector Commission report found that she and other board members had misused privileges for their own personal benefit, including tickets to sports events provided by Healthway-sponsored teams.\n\nCapolingua sued The West Australian for defamation following her resignation from the Healthway board. The case was settled, with The West Australian conceding that the statements made of Capolingua were defamatory. \n\nBob Cronin, the group editor-in-chief of West Australian News-papers, stated that, \"The articles were published in circumstances where Dr Capolingua was (and still is) barred by statutory confidentiality obligations from disclosing information she obtained by reason of her role as Chair of Healthway, which prevented her from giving details of what went on at Healthway.”\n\n“The West accepts that Dr Capolingua was instrumental in initiating the Public Sector Commission review into Healthway’s access to and use of tickets, and took action to address inappropriate inclusion of tickets in sponsorship agreements and ensuring Healthway’s practices complied with Public Sector guidelines,” Mr Cronin said.\n\nDr. Capolingua is a member of the:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31086918", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31086918", "title": "Self esteem in communication", "text": "Self esteem in communication\n\nSelf-esteem, in regards to communication, is the evaluative element of the perception of oneself. It is one’s perception of self-appraisal, self-worth, attractiveness, and social competence.\n\nThere are three primary influences on self-esteem: reflected appraisal, social comparison, and contingencies of self-worth. Reflected appraisal refers to messages you receive from others that assess your self-concept. For example, we are not able to believe that we are smart if the ones who are important in our lives tell us that we are slow or dumb. Social comparison is evaluating ourselves by comparing our own abilities, attributes, and accomplishments to those of other people. When we surround ourselves with others whom we perceive to be superior to us, our self-esteem tends to diminish, while when we surround ourselves with others whom we perceive to be not as talented as us, our self-esteem tends to inflate. Lastly, contingencies of self-worth is how our self-esteem is influenced by what is perceived as most important to us feeling good about ourselves. For example, one person's self-esteem could be highly contingent on doing well in academics and having a lot of friends whereas another person's self-esteem could be highly contingent on their performance in athletics and adherence to moral standards.\n\nIndividuals protect their self-esteem by exercising a self-serving bias, which is the tendency to attribute successful behavior to oneself but to assign external circumstances to one's unsuccessful behavior. For example, a football wide-receiver will give himself all of the credit for a miraculous catch but will blame the quarterback for a dropped one. The tendency to emphasize one's accomplishments and downplay one's failures is common. People will be unlikely to learn new skills or gain knowledge unless they become mindful of this tendency.\n\nOptimal self-esteem comes from an individual achieving significant accomplishments without expecting a reward. It is the unconscious effort to please others without expecting anything in return. This is unlikely to occur when one places oneself at the mercy of other people's appraisals. Optimal self-esteem develops, paradoxically, when one concentrates on accomplishing one's goals and dreams, rather than acting in order to build self-esteem.\n"}
{"id": "2476314", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2476314", "title": "Smith–Magenis syndrome", "text": "Smith–Magenis syndrome\n\nSmith–Magenis Syndrome (SMS) has features including intellectual disability, facial abnormalities, difficulty sleeping, and numerous behavioral problems such as self-harm. Smith–Magenis syndrome affects an estimated between 1 in 15,000 to 1 in 25,000 individuals.\n\nIt is a microdeletion syndrome characterized by an abnormality in the short (p) arm of chromosome 17 and is sometimes called the 17p- syndrome.\n\nFacial features of children with Smith–Magenis syndrome include a broad and square face, deep-set eyes, large cheeks, and a prominent jaw, as well as a flat nose bridge (in the young child, as the child ages it become more ski-jump shaped). Eyes tend to be deep-set and appear close together there is also a slant upwards. Eyebrows are heavy with lateral extension. The mouth is the most noticeable feature, both upper and lower lips are full, the mouth is wide. The mouth curves downwards and the upper lip curves outwards, due to a fleshy philtrum. These facial features become more noticeable as the individual ages, as Mandible growth outstrips that of the maxilla leading to a clear midface hypoplasia. There is also a mild brachycephaly.\n\nDisrupted sleep patterns are characteristic of Smith–Magenis syndrome, typically beginning early in life. Affected people may be very sleepy during the day, but have trouble falling asleep and awaken several times each night, due to an inverted circadian rhythm of melatonin.\n\nPeople with Smith–Magenis syndrome have engaging personalities, but all also have a lot of behavioral problems. These behavioral problems include frequent temper tantrums, meltdowns and outbursts, aggression, anger, fidgeting, compulsive behavior, anxiety, impulsiveness, and difficulty paying attention. Self-harm, including biting, hitting, head banging, and skin picking, is very common. Repetitive self-hugging is a behavioral trait that may be unique to Smith–Magenis syndrome. People with this condition may also compulsively lick their fingers and flip pages of books and magazines (a behavior known as \"lick and flip\"), as well as possessing an impressive ability to recall a wide range of small details about people or subject-specific trivia.\n\nOther symptoms can include short stature, abnormal curvature of the spine (scoliosis), reduced sensitivity to pain and temperature, and a hoarse voice. Some people with this disorder have ear abnormalities that lead to hearing loss. Affected individuals may have eye abnormalities that cause nearsightedness (myopia), strabismus, and other problems with vision. Heart and kidney defects also have been reported in people with Smith–Magenis syndrome, though they are less common.\n\nSmith–Magenis syndrome is a chromosomal condition related to low copy repeats of specific segments of chromosome 17. Most people with SMS have a deletion of genetic material from a specific region of chromosome 17 (17p11.2). Although this region contains multiple genes, recently researchers discovered that the loss of one particular gene the retinoic acid induced 1 or \"RAI1\" is responsible for most of the characteristic features of this condition. Also, other genes within the chromosome 17 contribute to the variability and severity of the clinical features. The loss of other genes in the deleted region may help explain why the features of Smith–Magenis syndrome vary among affected individuals. A small percentage of people with Smith–Magenis syndrome have a mutation in the \"RAI1\" gene instead of a chromosomal deletion.\n\nThese deletions and mutations lead to the production of an abnormal or nonfunctional version of the \"RAI1\" protein. \"RAI1\" is a transcription factor that regulates the expression of multiple genes, including several that are involved in controlling circadian rhythm, such as \"CLOCK\". The groups led by James Lupski (Baylor College of Medicine) and Sarah Elsea (Virginia Commonwealth University) are in the process of studying the exact function of this gene in relation to Smith Magenis Syndrome.\n\nSMS is typically not inherited. This condition usually results from a genetic change that occurs during the formation of reproductive cells (eggs or sperm) or in early fetal development. People with Smith–Magenis syndrome most often have no history of the condition in their family.\n\nSMS is usually confirmed by blood tests called chromosome (cytogenetic) analysis and utilize a technique called FISH (fluorescent in situ hybridization). The characteristic micro-deletion was sometimes overlooked in a standard FISH test, leading to a number of people with the symptoms of SMS with negative results.\n\nThe recent development of the FISH for 17p11.2 deletion test has allowed more accurate detection of this deletion. However, further testing is required for variations of Smith–Magenis syndrome that are caused by a mutation of the \"RAI1\" gene as opposed to a deletion.\n\nChildren with SMS are often given psychiatric diagnoses such as autism, attention deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD), attention deficit disorder (ADD) and/or mood disorders.\n\nTreatment for Smith–Magenis syndrome relies on managing its symptoms. Children with SMS often require several forms of support, including physical therapy, occupational therapy and speech therapy. Support is often required throughout an affected person's lifetime.\n\nMedication is often used to address some symptoms. Melatonin supplements and trazodone are commonly used to regulate sleep disturbances. In combination with exogenous melatonin, blockade of endogenous melatonin production during the day by the adrenergic antagonist acebutolol can increase concentration, improve sleep and sleep timing and aid in improvement of behaviour. Other medications (such as risperdal) are sometimes used to regulate violent behavior.\n\nThe eponym Smith–Magenis refers to two scientists who described the condition in 1986, namely, Ann C. M. Smith, a genetic counselor at the National Institutes of Health, and R. Ellen Magenis, a pediatrician, medical geneticist and cytogeneticist at the Oregon Health Sciences University.\n\n\n\"This article incorporates public domain text from The U.S. National Library of Medicine\"\n"}
{"id": "2061975", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2061975", "title": "Stomatitis", "text": "Stomatitis\n\nStomatitis is inflammation of the mouth and lips. It refers to any inflammatory process affecting the mucous membranes of the mouth and lips, with or without oral ulceration.\n\nIn its widest meaning, stomatitis can have a multitude of different causes and appearances. Common causes include infections, nutritional deficiencies, allergic reactions, radiotherapy, and many others.\n\nWhen inflammation of the gums and the mouth generally presents itself, sometimes the term \"gingivostomatitis\" is used, though this is also sometimes used as a synonym for herpetic gingivostomatitis.\n\nThe term is derived from the Greek \"stoma\" (), meaning \"mouth\", and the suffix \"-itis\" (), meaning \"inflammation\".\n\nMalnutrition (improper dietary intake) or malabsorption (poor absorption of nutrients into the body) can lead to nutritional deficiency states, several of which can lead to stomatitis. For example, deficiencies of iron, vitamin B2 (riboflavin), vitamin B3 (niacin), vitamin B6 (pyridoxine), vitamin B9 (folic acid) or vitamin B12 (cobalamine) may all manifest as stomatitis. Iron is necessary for the upregulation of transcriptional elements for cell replication and repair. Lack of iron can cause genetic downregulation of these elements, leading to ineffective repair and regeneration of epithelial cells, especially in the mouth and lips. Many disorders which cause malabsorption can cause deficiencies, which in turn causes stomatitis. Examples include tropical sprue.\n\nAphthous stomatitis (canker sores) is the recurrent appearance of mouth ulcers in otherwise healthy individuals. The cause is not completely understood, but it is thought that the condition represents a T cell mediated immune response which is triggered by a variety of factors. The individual ulcers (aphthae) recur periodically and heal completely, although in the more severe forms new ulcers may appear in other parts of the mouth before the old ones have finished healing. Aphthous stomatitis is one of the most common diseases of the oral mucosa, and is thought to affect about 20% of the general population to some degree. The symptoms range from a minor nuisance to being disabling in their impact on eating, swallowing and talking, and the severe forms can cause people to lose weight. There is no cure for aphthous stomatitis, and therapies are aimed at alleviating the pain, reducing the inflammation and promoting healing of the ulcers, but there is little evidence of efficacy for any treatment that has been used.\n\nInflammation of the corners (angles) of the lips is termed angular stomatitis or angular cheilitis. In children a frequent cause is repeated lip-licking, and in adults it may be a sign of underlying iron deficiency anemia, or vitamin B deficiencies (\"e.g.\", B-riboflavin, B-folate, or B-cobalamin, which in turn may be evidence of poor diets or malnutrition such as celiac disease).\n\nAlso, angular cheilitis can be caused by a patient's jaws at rest being 'overclosed' due to edentulousness or tooth wear, causing the jaws to come to rest closer together than if the complete/unaffected dentition were present. This causes skin folds around the angle of the mouth which are kept moist by saliva, which in turn favours infection; mostly by \"Candida albicans\" or similar species. Treatment usually involves the administration of topical nystatin or similar antifungal agents. Another treatment can be to correct the jaw relationship with dental treatment (\"e.g.\", dentures or occlusal adjustment).\n\nThis is a common condition present in denture wearers. It appears as reddened but painless mucosa beneath the denture. 90% of cases are associated with \"Candida\" species, and it is the most common form of oral candidiasis. Treatment is by antifungal medication and improved dental hygiene, such as not wearing the denture during sleep.\n\nAllergic contact stomatitis (also termed \"allergic gingivostomatitis\" or \"allergic contact gingivostomatitis\") is a type IV (delayed) hypersensitivity reaction that occurs in susceptible atopic individuals when allergens penetrate the skin or mucosa.\n\nAllergens, which may be different for different individuals, combine with epithelial-derived proteins, forming haptens which bind with Langerhans cells in the mucosa, which in turn present the antigen on their surface to T lymphocytes, sensitizing them to that antigen and causing them to produce many specific clones. The second time that specific antigen is encountered, an inflammatory reaction is triggered at the site of exposure. Allergic contact stomatitis is less common than allergic contact dermatitis because the mouth is coated in saliva, which washes away antigens and acts as a barrier. The oral mucosa is also more vascular (has a better blood supply) than skin, meaning that any antigens are more quickly removed from the area by the circulation. Finally, there is substantially less keratin in oral mucosa, meaning that there is less likelihood that haptens will form.\n\nAllergic contact stomatitis appears as non-specific inflammation, so it may be mistaken for chronic physical irritation. There may be burning or soreness of the mouth and ulceration. Chronic exposure to the allergen may result in a lichenoid lesion. Plasma cell gingivitis may also occur, which may be accompanied by glossitis and cheilitis.\nAllergens that may cause allergic contact stomatitis in some individuals include cinnamaldehyde, Balsam of Peru, peppermint, mercury, gold, pyrophosphates, zinc citrate, free acrylic monomer, nickel, fluoride, and sodium lauryl sulfate. These allergens may originate from many sources, including various foods and drink, chewing gum, toothpaste, mouthwash, dental floss, dental fillings, dentures, orthodontic bands or wires, and many other sources. If the substance containing the allergen comes into contact with the lips, allergic contact cheilitis can occur, together with allergic contact stomatitis.\n\nThe diagnosis is confirmed by patch test, and management is by avoidance of exposure to the allergen.\n\nMigratory stomatitis (or geographic stomatitis) is an atypical presentation of a condition which normally presents on the tongue, termed geographic tongue. Geographic tongue is so named because there are atrophic, erythematous areas of depapillation that migrate over time, giving a map-like appearance.\n\nIn migratory stomatitis, other mucosal sites in the mouth, such as the ventral surface (undersurface) of the tongue, buccal mucosa, labial mucosa, soft palate, or floor of mouth may be afflicted with identical lesions, usually in addition to the tongue. Apart from not being restricted to the tongue, migratory stomatitis is an identical condition in every regard to geographic tongue. Another synonym for geographic tongue which uses the term stomatitis is \"stomatitis areata migrans\".\n\nThis is inflammation of the mouth caused by herpes simplex virus.\n\nStomatitis may also be caused by chemotherapy, or radiation therapy of the oropharyngeal area. The term \"mucositis\" is sometimes used synonymously with stomatitis, however the former usually refers to mucosal reactions to radiotherapy or chemotherapy, and may occur anywhere in the gastrointestinal tract and not just in the mouth.\n\nThe term \"necrotizing ulcerative gingivostomatitis\" is sometimes used as a synonym of the necrotizing periodontal disease more commonly termed necrotizing ulcerative gingivitis, or a more severe form (also termed necrotizing stomatitis). The term \"necrotizing gingivostomatitis\" is also sometimes used.\n\nAlso called smoker's palatal keratosis, this condition may occur in smokers, especially pipe smokers. The palate appears dry and cracked, and white from keratosis. The minor salivary glands appear as small, red and swollen bumps. It is not a premalignant condition, and the appearance reverses if the smoking is stopped.\n\nChronic ulcerative stomatitis is a recently discovered condition with specific immunopathologic features. It is characterized by erosions and ulcerations which relapse and remit. Lesions are located on the buccal mucosa (inside of the cheeks) or on the gingiva (gums). The condition resembles Oral lichen planus when biopsied.\n\nThe diagnosis is made with Immunofluorescence techniques, which shows circulating and tissue-bound autoantibodies (particulate stratified squamous-epithelium-specific antinuclear antibody) to DeltaNp63alpha protein, a normal component of the epithelium. Treatment is with hydroxychloroquine.\n\nTerms such as \"plasma cell gingivostomatitis\", \"atypical gingivostomatitis\" and \"idiopathic gingivostomatitis\" are sometimes a synonym for plasma cell gingivitis, or specifically to refer to a severe form of plasma cell gingivitis.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20633211", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20633211", "title": "Stuffed and Starved", "text": "Stuffed and Starved\n\nStuffed and Starved: The Hidden Battle for the World Food System is a non-fiction book written by Raj Patel. It was published in 2008 by Melville House Publishing. \"Stuffed and Starved\" looks at the inequities of the world food system from the beginning to the end of the conventional food chain, from producers to manufacturers and distributors to consumers.\n\nAccording to Naomi Klein, \"Stuffed and Starved\" is \"One of the most dazzling books I have read in a very long time. The product of a brilliant mind, and a gift to a world hungering for justice.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16778879", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16778879", "title": "Tamil Nadu Water Supply and Drainage Board", "text": "Tamil Nadu Water Supply and Drainage Board\n\nTamil Nadu Water Supply and Drainage Board (TWAD Board) is a public agency formed by the Government of Tamil Nadu, assigned with task of providing water supply and sewerage facilities to the state of Tamil Nadu (except the Chennai Metropolitan Area). It was formed on April 14, 1971.\n\n"}
{"id": "44270482", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44270482", "title": "The Mad Doctor (novel)", "text": "The Mad Doctor (novel)\n\nThe Mad Doctor is a 1935 novel by Australian author F. J. Thwaites, a melodramatic medical romance set in Africa.\n\nThwaites based the novel on a story he heard from an old man while crossing the Atlantic in 1933. However, he changed the tragic ending to a more optimistic one.\n\nA Sydney surgeon is sent to jail. When he gets out, finding himself a social outcast, he goes to work in the African jungle. Although he only works among the native Africans, his reputation as a miracle worker in cases of paralysis spreads far and wide. \n\nThe novel was adapted for radio in Adelaide in 1936. During the production of this, Thwaites met the actress Jessica Harcourt, who he later married.\n\nThe Mad Doctor in Harley Street is a 1938 novel by F. J. Thwaites. A sequel to \"The Mad Doctor\", it describes the doctor's efforts to get his cure recognised by the medical establishment in London. A contemporary review says that the novel \"bubbles over with sentimentalism.\"\n\nThe novel was adapted for radio in 1938.\n\n"}
{"id": "29569917", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29569917", "title": "United States grain embargo against the Soviet Union", "text": "United States grain embargo against the Soviet Union\n\nThe United States grain embargo against the Soviet Union was enacted by Jimmy Carter in January 1980 in response to the Soviet Union’s invasion of Afghanistan in 1979. It remained in effect until Ronald Reagan ended it in 1981 upon taking the office of president. American farmers felt the brunt of the sanctions, while its effects upon the Soviet Union were inconclusive. During the presidential election campaign of 1980, Republican nominee Ronald Reagan promised to end the embargo while incumbent Democratic nominee Jimmy Carter was not willing to do so.\n\nThe Soviet Union's 1979 invasion of Afghanistan was met by the United States with numerous economic sanctions including the grain embargo. In addition, the United States led a boycott of the 1980 Olympics which were hosted in Moscow.\n\nThe effect of the embargo on the Soviet Union was minimal as they were able to receive grain from other sources. These sources included most of South America such as Venezuela and Brazil. These crops were cheaper than the American grain as the labor cost was much cheaper. The Soviet Union still received grain from the United States with regard to the grain agreement in 1975 between the two countries. The agreement said that the United States was required to send 8 million tons of grain to the Soviets. The embargo was a blessing in disguise for the Soviets as they were able to see that they didn’t need the United States’ grain. Instead, they could cultivate their own in Ukraine and import the grain from South America. Even after the embargo was lifted the Soviets still relied on the grain from Ukraine and South America and reduced their interaction with the U.S.\n\nThe effects of the embargo on the United States were numerous. The embargo had no affect on price https://www.macrotrends.net/2534/wheat-prices-historical-chart-data . According this wheat price chart the price was $4.39 in Jan 1980 and $5 in Jan 1981 with highs of $5.38 in Nov 1980. ($) per bushel in 1981. The embargo had a direct effect on the 1980 presidential election. In several states farmers who were part of the farm strike movement circled their tractors around local state United States Department of Agriculture offices to protest the USDA enforcement of the embargo. With the Soviets receiving more grain from their second highest importer, Argentina.\n\nThe main figure of the 1980 grain embargo was Jimmy Carter. The grain embargo was his way of using food as a weapon. Carter believed that if he could cut out the Soviets grain imports, then they wouldn’t be able to feed their livestock or people, hoping that the people in the country would lead to unrest against the war in Afghanistan. Another key figure in the grain embargo was the Farm Bureau. At first, they supported the embargo as they saw it as a way for farmers to sell more of their grain to Americans. As a result, grain prices dropped and farmers became angered with the legislation and decided to protest against the embargo. When Jimmy Carter lost their support it was the end for the embargo. A year later, Ronald Reagan took power with the support of the Farm Bureau and ended the embargo. Another key figure of the 1980 Grain Embargo was the farm strike movement. The farm strike movement was a group of farmers who protested the embargo through peaceful means such as the incidents with encircling the USDA headquarters in few states with their tractors. Their actions brought attention to the demands of the farmers for the embargo to be lifted.\n"}
{"id": "5073257", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5073257", "title": "V. C. Kulandaiswamy", "text": "V. C. Kulandaiswamy\n\nV C Kulandaiswamy (14 July 1929 – 10 December 2016) was an Indian academic and author. He obtained his Master of Technology degree from IIT Kharagpur and obtained a Ph.D in hydrology and water resources from the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign (United States).\n\nKulandaiswamy created an eponymous mathematical model for the rainfall-runoff relationship based on a general equation developed by him. Kulandaiswamy was a member of the UNESCO planning group (1978) for the preparation of the second six-year plan (1981–86) of the International Hydraulic Programme (IHP). He has authored more than 60 research reports and papers in the field of hydrology. He has authored six volumes of poems and seven of prose essays which earned him the Thiruvalluvar Award by Tamil Nadu government in 1999. He has received the Padma Bhushan (2002) and Padma Shri (1992), awarded by the President of India.\n\nHe worked for reform of Tamil script to make learning Tamil easier. He won the Sahitya Akademi Award (1988) for his book Vaazhum Valluvam. He died on 10 December 2016 after a short illness.\n"}
{"id": "3969818", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3969818", "title": "Vaccination Act", "text": "Vaccination Act\n\nThe UK Vaccination Acts of 1840, 1853, 1867 and 1898 were a series of legislative Acts passed by the Parliament of the United Kingdom regarding the vaccination policy of the country.\n\n\nIn general, the disadvantages of variolation are the same as those of vaccination, but added to them is the general agreement that variolation was always more dangerous than vaccination.\n\nVaccination was first made compulsory in 1853, and the provisions were made more stringent in 1867, 1871, and 1874.\n\nBy the Act it was required:\n\nThe Vaccination Act 1867 (30 & 31 Vict. c. 84) was an Act of Parliament in the United Kingdom. It consolidated and updated the existing laws relating to vaccination, and was repealed by the National Health Service Act 1946.\n\nThe poor-law guardians were to control vaccination districts formed out of the parishes, and pay vaccinators from 1\"s\" to 3\"s\" per child vaccinated in the district (the amount paid varied with how far they had to travel).\n\nWithin seven days of the birth of a child being registered, the registrar was to deliver a notice of vaccination; if the child was not presented to be vaccinated within three months, or brought for inspection afterwards, the parents or guardians were liable to a summary conviction and fine of 20\"s\".\n\nThe Act also provided that any person who produced or attempted to inoculate another with smallpox could be imprisoned for a month.\n\nIn 1871 another Act was passed appointing a Vaccination Officer, also authorising a defendant to appear in a court of law by any member of his family, or any other person authorised by him. This act also confirmed the principal of compulsion, which evidently sparked hostility and opposition to the practice.\n\nMade vaccination compulsory. Records of the reasoning for this are not widely available. However it is apparent that soon after this there was considerable resistance to the compulsion, and this grew.\n\nissued 6 Reports between 1892 and 1896. Its recommendations, including the abolition of cumulative penalties and the use of safer vaccine were incorporated into the 1898 Vaccination Act.\n\nIn 1898 a new vaccination law was passed, in some respects modifying, but not superseding, previous Acts, giving conditional exemption of conscientious objectors, (and substituting calf lymph for humanised lymph). It removed cumulative penalties and introduced a conscience clause, allowing parents who did not believe vaccination was efficacious or safe to obtain a certificate of exemption.\n\nThe Vaccination Act of 1898 purported to give liberty of non-vaccination, but this liberty was not really obtained. Parents applying for a certificate of exemption had to satisfy two magistrates, or one stipendiary, of their conscientious objections. Some stipendiaries, and many of the magistrates, refused to be satisfied, and imposed delays. Unless the exemption was obtained before the child was four months old, it was too late. The consequence was that in the year 1906, only about 40,000 exemptions were obtained in England and Wales. In the year 1907 the Government recognised that the magistrates had practically declined to carry out the law of 1898, and, consequently, a new law—the Vaccination Act, 1907 (\"7 Edw. VII\") was passed. Under this law the parent escaped penalties for the non-vaccination of his child if within four months from the birth he made a statutory declaration that he confidently believed that vaccination would be prejudicial to the health of the child, and within seven days thereafter delivered, or sent by post, the declaration to the Vaccination Officer of the district.\n\nIt is the duty of all Magistrates to sign a Statutory Declaration when asked to do so, and the Magistrate's Clerk is entitled to a fee of 1s. Most of the liberal-minded magistrates will witness the Declaration at their own house, or any other convenient place. Some, however, refuse to do that except in the law court. A Statutory Declaration may also be witnessed by a Commissioner for Oaths, and some other officials.\n"}
{"id": "6129664", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6129664", "title": "Virtual reality in telerehabilitation", "text": "Virtual reality in telerehabilitation\n\nVirtual reality in telerehabilitation is a method used first in the training of musculoskeletal patients using asynchronous patient data uploading, and an internet video link. Subsequently, therapists using virtual reality-based telerehabilitation prescribe exercise routines via the web which are then accessed and executed by patients through a web browser. Therapists then monitor the patient's progress via the web and modify the therapy asynchronously without real-time interaction or training.\n\nThe computer technology that allows development three-dimensional virtual environments consists of both hardware and software. The current popular, technical, and scientific interest in virtual environments is inspired, in large part, by the advent and availability of increasingly powerful and affordable visually oriented, interactive, graphical display systems and techniques lacking only sense and sensibility.\n\nThe term \"virtualized reality\" (VR) was coined and introduced in a paper by Kanade. The traditional virtual reality world is typically constructed using simplistic, artificially created computer-aided design (CAD) models. VR starts with the real-world scene and virtualizes it. Virtual reality is a practical, affordable technology for the practice of clinical medicine, and modern, high-fidelity virtual reality systems have practical applications in areas ranging from psychiatry to surgical planning and telemedicine. Through VR's capacity to allow the creation and control of dynamic 3-dimensional, ecologically valid stimulus environments within which behavioral response can be recorded and measured, it offers clinical assessment and rehabilitation options not available with traditional methods.\n\nThe value of VR systems for the investigation and rehabilitation of cognitive and perceptual impairments and current and potential applications of VR technology address six neurorehabilitation issues. Korean researchers developed and assessed the value of a new rehabilitation training system to improve postural balance control by combining virtual reality technology with an unfixed bicycle. The system was effective as a training device; in addition, the technology might have a wider applicability to the rehabilitation field.\n\nTracy and Lathan investigated the relationship between motor tasks and participants' spatial abilities by training participants within a VR based simulator and then observing their ability to transfer training from the simulator to the real world. The study demonstrated that subjects with lower spatial abilities achieved significant positive transfer from a simulator based training task to a similar real world robotic operation task.\n\nVirtual environments were applied to assess the training of inexperienced powered wheelchair users and demonstrated that the two virtual environments represent a potentially useful means of assessing and training novice powered wheelchair users. A recently completed project at the University of Strathclyde has resulted in the development of a wheelchair motion platform which, in conjunction with a virtual reality facility, can be used to address issues of accessibility in the built environment.\n\nMany cases have applied virtual reality technology to telemedicine and telerehabilitation service development. Because telemedicine focuses principally on transmitting medical information, VR has potential to enhance the practice. State of the art of VR-based telemedicine applications is used in remote or augmented surgery as well as in surgical training, both of which are critically dependent on eye–hand coordination. Recently, however, different researchers have tried to use virtual environments in medical visualization and for assessment and rehabilitation in neuropsychology.\n\nCase studies for VR applications were conducted that were internet deliverable and they identified technical, practical, and user challenges of remote VR treatment programs. To improve understanding of deficits in autism and in left visual-spatial neglect, Trepagnier et al. investigated face gaze behavior in autism and right hemisphere stroke, using virtual reality and gaze sensing technology.\n\nAn at-home stroke telerehabilitation service was developed using virtual reality haptics. Researchers from Rutgers University and Stanford University developed a virtual reality-based orthopedic telerehabilitation system.\n\nThe use of virtual reality technologies in the rehabilitation of patients with vestibular system disorders and in the provision of remote medical consultation for those patients. He stated that an appropriately designed VR experience could greatly increase the rate of adaptation in these patients.\n\n"}
{"id": "23446161", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23446161", "title": "Vitold Polonsky", "text": "Vitold Polonsky\n\nVitold Alfonsovich Polonsky (Russian: Витольд Альфонсович Полонский; 1879 – 5 January 1919) was a Russian silent film actor.\n\nPolonsky took drama courses in the Moscow theatre school, graduating in 1907.\n\nHe acted in the Maly Theatre (Moscow) until 1916. He was one of the most popular actors in pre-Revolutionary Russian cinema. His first role was that of Prince Andrey Bolkonsky in the 1915 film Natasha Rostova.\nHe played several hero-lover roles including Boris in \"The Brothers Boris and Gleb\"; Boris in \"Irina Kirsanova\"; Evgeny in \"The Song of Tumultuous Love\"; Andrey Bargov in \"After Death\"; Vladislav Zaritsky in \"Shadows of Sin\" (all 1915); Prince Baratynsky in \"A Life for a Life\" (1916); Lanin in \"By The Fireplace\" (1917) and Prince Mirsky in \"Evening Sacrifice\".\n\nPolonsky was married twice. His first wife was the Maly Theatre actress Vera Nikolaevna Pashennaya (1887–1962), who became a National Artist of the USSR, a State Laureate and Lenin Prize winner. They had one daughter, Irina Polonskaya.\n\nHis second wife was Maly Theatre actress Olga Gladkova. They had one daughter, Veronika Polonskaya, who also became an actress.\n\nIn the summer of 1918, the film director Pyotr Chardynin and the Moscow cinema entrepreneur Dmitry Kharitonov requested the State Commissar for Education, Lunacharsky, to aid a group of cinema workers to travel to Odessa to film. They received a permit, and the group travelled to Odessa. Polonsky was part of the group along with Vera Kholodnaya and Ivan Mozzukhin. In November 1918, however, Odessa was occupied by the Entente forces. A few months later, in January 1919, Polonsky died from food poisoning.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24224089", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24224089", "title": "Water resources management in Argentina", "text": "Water resources management in Argentina\n\nWater resources management (WRM) functions in Argentina are handled by multiple institutions operating at the national, provincial, and river basin level, with a variety of functions and jurisdictions. On the national level, the \"National Institute for Water and the Environment (INA)\" and the \"National Water and Sanitation Utility (AySA)\" are charged with the duties of researching, water resources preservation, developing services, and implementing water projects.\n\nConnectivity to water in urban settings is quite good in Argentina, but rural communities lag far behind that of less developed nations. This problem is made worse by one of the highest levels of per capita usage in the world at around 500 L/day. Large rivers and aquifers represent the main source of drinking water supplies and they are facing serious water pollution problems from industrial effluents, urbanization, and harmful agriculture practices.\n\nMany other challenges persist throughout the country and most are regionally focused with varying degrees because Argentina is divided into many different climatic regions. Some of the critical issues are identified as an inadequate regulatory and institutional framework, inter-sectoral conflict, limited capacity in water management at the central and provincial levels, and high risk for flooding in urban and rural areas.\n\nTowards the end of the 19th Century and throughout most of the 20th Century, the Argentinean Government was the primary investor in the country’s hydraulic infrastructure development. Primarily focused on developing irrigation infrastructure, the first irrigation development project started in 1909 and continued throughout the 20th Century. Beginning in the early 1990s, Argentina began reforming many of its public sectors with a move to privatization of urban water services in the city of Buenos Aires. Subsequently, all the larger cities and numerous intermediate sized populations also began to incorporate private operators to improve operational efficiency and increase return on investments. This moderately recent Argentine model for management of the water supply sector still needs adjustments in the optimization of the state's regulatory function, incentive schemes, and the expansion of coverage. Even so, significant benefits have been obtained in terms of the quality of water, services rendered, a substantial increase with investments into the water sector, and improvements in the population's quality of life.\n\nSignificant water resources management challenges were identified by the water community of Argentina during the Second National Water Resources Meeting held in Buenos Aires (May 18–20, 2004) and are listed here: (i) incomplete/outdated legal and regulatory framework; (ii) limited capacity in water management at the central and provincial levels coupled with outdated procedures for water resources planning; (iii) lack of an integrated national water resources information system and deficient water resources monitoring network; (iv) serious water pollution problems (surface and groundwater); (v) high risk for flooding in urban and rural areas; (vi) lack of appropriate incentives for conservation and efficient use of the resource base and for reducing pollution. Some of these challenges are addressed in more detail below.\n\nWater pollution from industrial effluents is a considerable challenge and the risk of continued contamination is very likely. The Government of Argentina (GoA) has a particular focus on the Matanza-Riachuelo River Basin in Buenos Aires where at least 50 industries are discharging ~95% of the total load of contaminants into the Parana river. Pollution and overuse of the aquifer in Mendoza have become a problem where agriculture and industrial runoff and mismanagement of irrigation water has deteriorated the first levels of the aquifer. This has led to over pumping and exploitation of deeper wells that reach the second and third layers of water. Older wells have been abandoned without being properly sealed posing a risk of vertical filtration (e.g. contaminated water from higher levels filters down to lower levels) into deeper water tables where farmers are pumping from. Abandoned wells also result in fields becoming stagnant and barren creating an economic loss for the region.\n\nProblems with water quality in lakes and reservoirs in Argentina have increased due to agricultural activities, deforestation, logging, animal production, mining activities, urban run-off, and the discharge of untreated sewage. As a result of these activities, many lakes and reservoirs are receiving high quantities of nutrients and are suffering from eutrophication. The increasing occurrence of algal blooms is the evidence of this growing occurrence. Algal blooms occur especially in reservoirs and ponds, and are spread over at least twelve provinces of Argentina. Specifically, fifteen aquatic environments were identified at high risk of poisoning by eutrophication.\n\nWater pollution typically occurs due to the discharge of effluent into water systems, improper landfill techniques, flooding of urban areas resulting in pollution from urban run-off, and agricultural practices. For example, the cities La Rioja and Catamarca have constraints on expansion of freshwater supplies forcing the residents to use only water they have available even if it is contaminated. The lack of piped water and sewage can exacerbate the water pollution problem through excessive contamination from excrements. For example, communities having 5,000-10,000 residents and urban centers with 200,000-500,000 residents have 90% and 60% of those respective residents that lack connection to sewers.\n\nMismanagement of water in the Puelches aquifer of Buenos Aires is a real problem. During the 1980s, this aquifer was over-exploited resulting in saline intrusion from the Atlantic ocean causing the city to use water from the Plata river. Over time, the Puelches aquifer has recharged but is not being used and now the water level of the aquifer is reaching 1 m below the surface in many areas. This inverse phenomenon has resulted in waterlogged basements and storage units, flooded tunnels, the weakening of foundations, and the saturation of household septic tanks. In Córdoba, urbanization and the lack of proper treatment facilities around the San Roque Lake, caused an alarming increase in cyanobacteria and thrihalomethanes have been detected in treatment plants at above-normal levels. This lake is the cities main source of drinking water, and is at continued risk of elevated levels of nitrogen and phosphorus and further outbreaks.\n\nFlooding is the major natural hazard in Argentina. According to 1998 statistics of Swiss-Re, Argentina ranks 18th in the world in potential flood losses, in excess of US$3 billion in 1998. In Buenos Aires, flooding occurs on average about twice per year. These floods are due to the condition of the drainage network, and strong winds from the southeast, (\"sudestadas\"), which produce a rise of the Rio de la Plata high above its average.\n\nWater resources management functions are handled by multiple institutions operating at the national, provincial, and river basin level, with a variety of functions and jurisdictions. This has given rise to inter-sectoral and inter-jurisdictional conflicts (particularly between competing uses such as irrigation, hydropower and environment), poor planning and budget programming, and limited technical capacity and knowledge exchange.\n\nAnnual rainfall averages ~600 mm which equates to 1,668 km; however, about 83% of this precipitation is lost through evapotranspiration and evaporation. Subsequently, internal renewable water resources are reduced to about 276 km. Runoff is also significant and is estimated at 814 km/year, of which 538 km comes from contributions originating in basins from Paraguay and Uruguay. These statistics are general for the entire country; however, Argentina is a large country encompassing 2.7 million km with weather patterns and climates that vary greatly. For example, the eastern edges of the Andes mountains are dry and water scarcity and droughts are an ongoing issue. In the greater Buenos Aires which is a lowland area, water pollution from industrial effluents, stormwater and flooding, and groundwater management are the major concerns. Down in the sparsely populated Patagonia region where there is ample quantities of high quality water, water resources management has fewer challenges.\n\nMajor rivers of Argentina:\nImportant rivers of Argentina in terms of length and quantity of water conveyed and discharged include the Parana, Uruguay, and the Negro rivers. The two largest rivers, the Paraná River and the Uruguay River originate in Brazil. The Uruguay River runs north to south and forms a border with Argentina, Brazil, and Uruguay. The Parana River together with the Uruguay river form the Río de la Plata estuary. Only a few of the Argentine rivers such as the Futaleufú River flow to the Pacific, while the majority of rivers originate on eastern slopes of the Andes and run towards the Atlantic ocean. Argentina is home to at least three major endorheic basins or closed water drainage basins e.g. water does not flow to the ocean. Both the northwest and southwest pampas basins in the dry pampas areas of Argentina and the Meseta Somuncura in the Patagonia region of Argentina are endorheic basins. Notable river basins under this classification include the Desaguadero River basin which has great hydroelectric and irrigation significance. In times of great precipitation, its waters can actually reach the sea. The Desaguadero River basin includes the following tributaries: Jáchal, Mendoza, Tunuyán, Diamante and Atuel.\n\nTotal capacity of reservoirs in Argentina is estimated by the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) at around 186 km. Of this quantity, 96% of total capacity is stored behind large dams. Of note, one of the largest reservoirs at approximately 1600 km is stored behind the Yacyretá dam and is located on the Parana river bordering Paraguay is used primarily for hydroelectric generation in Argentina.\n\nThe following is a list of Lakes in Argentina.\n\n\nKey Characteristics of the major Drainage Basins\n\"Source\": FAO\n\n\"Excerpts and table below drawn from:\" \nThe water coverage situation in Argentina is generally viewed as unacceptable because per capita income in the country is the highest in Latin America. While Argentina has achieved very high levels of access to an improved water source in urban areas (98%), access in rural areas remains relatively low for a country of Argentina’s level of development (80% using a broad definition, 45% for house connections) In general, rural citizens receive deficient service compared to poorer countries.\n\nCircumstances are exacerbated by irrational consumption and waste in most of Argentina's systems. Much of the waste is caused in large part by inadequate fees that do not accurately represent the value of water. The most evident indicator of over-consumption and waste is the average municipal use of nearly 500 liters/person/day or about 182 m per year ranking Argentina near the top, along with Costa Rica, of municipal water use in Latin America. Total water use including industrial, agriculture, and municipal is 774 m per person or about 4% of total annual renewable water resources on a per capita basis.\n\"Source\": Joint Monitoring Program WHO/UNICEF(JMP/2006).\n\nArgentina has a long history with irrigation needs and usage. In 1909, the National Government enacted the National Law of irrigation number 6546 that prompted the creation of a large number of hydraulic works projects and the creation of new irrigation systems throughout Argentina. Decades later, the introduction of pumping equipment on the national market in the 1950s spurned changes in the irrigation landscape. Advances in irrigation equipment led to an increase in irrigated surface area while ushering in a systematization of farming procedures such as; i) application of water, ii) preparation of land and soil, iii) gained efficiencies, iv) diversification of crops, v) and the introduction of spraying and localized irrigation techniques. This was all mostly due to the higher cost of water and the need to recover investments made by crop production while seeking higher profitability.\n\nThe evolution of irrigation in Argentina has been discontinuous over recent decades. According to data compiled by the National Directorate of Water Resources in Argentina, estimated total coverage in 1970 was about 1 million ha and only increased to approximately 1.2 million by 1988, and then up again to 2.1 million by 1995. This figure for irrigated surface area in 1995 represented almost 8% of the total cultivated area in the country. Actual potential for irrigated land is much higher at around 6.1 million ha if soil qualities and water resources are taken into account. Around 44% of the potential irrigated land is located in arid regions and 56% in located in more humid areas of the country. Water resources are the limiting factor in scaled development in the irrigation sector in Argentina. It has been estimated that as much as 95 million ha in Argentina have good soil but not enough water.\n\nOne of the most important sector-related issues affecting Argentina is the high cost related to the recurring flooding of highly urbanized and important metropolitan areas throughout the country. The magnitude of these flood-incurred costs ranks Argentina 1st in Latin America and 14th worldwide. Although flooding affects the entire country, flood and drainage concerns are more prevalent in four main geographic regions: i) Buenos Aires and the surrounding municipalities because its high level of urbanization (12.6 million inhabitants or 42% of total population), its economic importance, and its location on a flat and low-lying area; ii) urban centers within the Parana basin, a subtropical region with high annual rainfalls that often coincide with high river elevations; iii) Andes foothill provinces (Cuyo and Northwestern provinces) with their intense, short-lived rains and rapid snowmelts that produce flashfloods; iv) rainfalls of high intensity over limited area that are responsible for floods in Patagonia and the southern provinces.\n\nTheoretically, hydroelectricity potential in Argentina has been estimated at 169,000 GWh per year while the feasible potential is closer to 130,000 GWh per year. Total installed hydro capacity is around 10,000 MW across 35 locations throughout the country. The average annual power generation in Argentina is 32,000 GWh per year representing about 25% of the feasible potential. Large bi-national hydro projects such as the Yacyretá and the Salto Grande substantially increase Argentina's total power generation.\n\nDuring the early 1990s, Argentina began a thorough reform of its public sector, which included the restructuring and privatization of the electricity sector. Hydropower plants were no exception as the primary hydroelectric plants were grouped into “business units”. These units are national concessions with one to three power plants in each group. Notable exceptions to the privatization scheme because they are bi-national are again the Yacyretá and the Salto Grande power plants. Additionally, there were at least six hydroelectric power plants as of 2005 in the planning stages with a total power generation capacity of approximately 10,000 GHw per year.\n\nList of Dams in Argentina\nArgentina’s federal structure is based on the duties assigned in article 121 of the National Constitution. According to article 121, the provinces hold power not already delegated to the Federal Government by this Constitution. The 1994 constitutional reform added article 124 of the charter and expressly stated that “provinces have original ownership of natural resources existing in their territory.” The national Congress has the authority, through the Civil Code, to establish the following essential principles regarding the legal condition of waters: i) public ownership of surface and ground water as stated in Article 2340); and ii) the principle of special concession for water use as stated in articles 2341, 2342, and 2642. In addition to the Civil Code, Argentine Water Law includes commercial law, mining codes, federal laws on energy, navigation, transportation, ports system, jurisdiction over Argentine waters, Interprovincial Commerce, and toxic waste regulation. All of these regulations directly or indirectly contain provisions regarding water resources.\n\nThe Electricity Regulatory Framework Law (N°24,065/92) created the National Electricity Regulatory Commission (ENRE) as an independent body that works within the scope of the Secretariat of State for Energy. ENRE was commissioned through Decree 570 in 1996 by the Secretariat of State for Energy to administer hydroelectric concession contracts.\n\nVarious actions and measures have been developed in the country to institutionalize policy preparation and water resources administration at the national level. One of these was the creation in 1991 of the Secretariat of Natural Resources and Environment, whose name later changed in 1996 to the Secretariat of Natural Resources and Sustainable Development, overseen by the office of the President. The Under-Secretariat of Water Resources oversees the National Bureau of Water Policy, which is in charge of planning and executing national water policy, supervising compliance and coordinating plans, programs and projects related to water resources, and the National Bureau of Water Resources Administration, which is essentially responsible for proposing and executing policies, programs and projects related to public water works.\n\n\n\n\nWith Chile In 1991, an environmental treaty between Chile and Argentina was signed and within the treaty there is a \"Protocolo de acuerdo\" or framework agreement regarding shared water resources between the two countries. The framework agreement seeks to regulate the 'non-transfer\" of pollution through waterways (rivers, aquifers,lakes, pipes) from one country to the other. This agreement, while it has not yet become effective is still considered by the FAO to be a global framework on negotiating this kind of agreement. In May 2009, representatives from Argentina and Chile met to formalize a request to their respective Ministers of Foreign Affairs. The request asks that the objectives of the 1991 protocol of shared water resources be complied with. Objectives in Article I of the protocol state, \"the parties shall agree that the actions and programs concerning the use of shared water resources be undertaken under the concept of integrated management of the watersheds.\"\n\nLa Plata River Basin is shared by Argentina, Uruguay, Brazil, and Paraguay have a framework for the sustainable management of Its water resources with respect to the hydrological effects of climatic variability and change. The \"FREPLATA\" project implemented between the countries aims to ensure the sustainable management of the exceptional biota of the la Plata River and its waterfronts with Argentina and Uruguay. Another component of this is the Guaraní aquifer system project which promotes the protection of one of the largest semi-confined aquifers in the world that is shared amongst Argentina, Brazil, Paraguay and Uruguay.\n\nThe Guarani aquifer is shared also between Argentina, Uruguay, Brazil, and Paraguay and constitutes one of the largest reservoirs of groundwater in the world. Current water storage is approximately 37.000 km and the aquifer has a natural recharge of 166 km per year. The Environmental Protection and Sustainable Development\nof the Guarani Aquifer System Project was developed to support the four countries to elaborate and implement a shared institutional, legal and technical framework to preserve and manage the Guarani Aquifer and was executed between 2003 and 2007. Total project cost is US $26.7 million. The General Secretariat executed the project components in coordination with the four national agencies charged with executing the components. External support was provided by the Global Environment Facility (GEF), the World Bank (WB), the Organization of American States (OAS), the Netherlands and German Governments and the International Atomic Energy Agency.\n\nThe World Bank: The World Bank is engaged with the Government of Argentina (GoA) in a US$840 million multi-phase project with the following objectives (i) improve sewerage services in the MR River Basin and other parts of the Province and City of Buenos Aires by expanding transport and treatment capacity; (ii) support a reduction of industrial discharges to the MR River, through the provision of industrial conversion grants to small and medium enterprises; (iii) promote improved decision-making for environmentally sustainable land use and drainage planning, and to pilot urban drainage and land use investments, in the M-R River Basin; and (iv) strengthen ACUMAR’s institutional framework for ongoing and sustainable clean-up of the MR River Basin.\n\nThe World Bank's Urban Flood Prevention and Drainage Project will help reduce the vulnerability of Argentina to flooding, through a mix of structural and non-structural measures. The project consists of the following components: Component 1) aims at providing provincial institutions with flood risk management instruments that can assist with the implementation of specific institutional development activities. Component 2) will provide housing in safe areas for those families that may be resettled from the lands required for the works and for lower income families living in flood prone areas in their immediate proximity. Component 3) will finance works to protect important urban areas against flood effects. It will contain minor rehabilitation of existing schemes and would include fortification of flood defenses in geographic areas with strong economic activity and the greatest vulnerability to serious repeated flood damage. Component 4) Technical assistance would be provided for US$2.39 million (or 3.4 percent of project loan) to help implement the project.\n\nThe Inter-American Development Bank: In the mid-1990s, the government completed a comprehensive MR Environmental Management Plan (EMP) and received a US$250 million Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) loan to help finance implementation of the EMP objectives. Twelve years after the beginning of the project, the IDB only disbursed US$10 million, and is only now committing another US$90 million for urgent clean-up activities (the remaining balance having been long ago reallocated). The Government of Argentina (GoA) concluded that the lack of an adequate institutional and legal framework to coordinate the involvement of different government jurisdictions has been a major obstacle to implementing the EMP.\n\nThere are many wetlands of Argentina that provide a range of functions. Wetlands are key areas for drinking water, sanitation, agriculture and food, absorbing large water flows after heavy rainfall and glacial melt, and for providing water in periods of droughts. The Ramsar Convention on Wetlands came into force in Argentina on September 4, 1992. and there 19 sites designated as Wetlands of International Importance, with total surface area of 5,318,376 hectares (13 million acres).\n\nList of Ramsar Sites:\n\nAccording to the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change Fourth Assessment report from 2007, Argentina will be impacted by climate change with differing affects depending on the region of Argentina in question. A declining trend in precipitation may be observed in south-west Argentina while expected increases in sea-level rise (SLR), extreme weather and climatic variability are very likely to affect coastal areas of the Buenos Aires Province in Argentina. Stress on water availability and quality has been documented where lower precipitation and/or higher temperatures occur. For example, droughts related to La Niña create severe restrictions for water supply and irrigation demands in central western Argentina. Additionally, glaciers in Latin America have receded dramatically in the past decades, and many of them have disappeared completely. IPCC predicts this trend to continue and perhaps even worsen. The most affected sub-regions are the Peruvian Andes, southern Chile and Argentina up to latitude 25°S. In an article from Science Daily in March 2008, the news agency reports that, \"if the inter-tropical glaciers of Chile, Argentina, and Colombia disappear, water availability and hydropower generation will be affected.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "41210234", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41210234", "title": "Zalicus", "text": "Zalicus\n\nZalicus is an American biomedical company headquartered in Cambridge, Massachusetts. The company is finding new ways to cure pain. In 2013, Zalicus dropped Z160, a painkiller that would treat pain from shingles. The stock symbol is ZLCS. \n\n"}
