{"id": "54228447", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54228447", "title": "1931 Cyprus revolt", "text": "1931 Cyprus revolt\n\nThe 1931 Cyprus revolt or October Events (, \"Oktovriana\") was an anti-colonial revolt that took place in Cyprus, then a British crown colony, between 21 October and early November 1931. The revolt was spearheaded by Greek Cypriot nationalists who advocated the Enosis (Union) of the island with Greece. The defeat of the rebels led to a period of repressive British rule known as \"Palmerocracy\" (Παλμεροκρατία), that would last until the beginning of World War II.\n\nAt the outbreak of the First World War, Cyprus was nominally a part of the Ottoman Empire, while in fact being administered by the British Empire as agreed in the Cyprus Convention of 1878. On 5 November 1914, the Ottomans entered the conflict on the side of the Central Powers, prompting Britain to void the Cyprus Convention and annex the island as the two states were now at war. In 1915, Britain offered Cyprus to Greece in exchange for the Greek intervention into the World War I on the side of the Triple Entente. The Greek government refused the offer as at the time it was embroiled in a deep internal crisis known as the National Schism. Cyprus had already been described as a bargaining chip for negotiating with the Greeks when it was offered in exchange for the deep water port of Argostoli in 1912.\n\nFollowing the end of the war Britain received international recognition of its claims to the island at the 1923 Conference of Lausanne. Greece was the only country that could potentially contest the decision, based on the fact that four fifths of its population were ethnically Greek. However at the time Greece faced economic ruin and diplomatic isolation as a result of a disastrous defeat in the Greco-Turkish War (1919–1922), thus Greek envoys made no mention of Cyprus at the conference. Cyprus then attained the status of a crown colony and the number of the Cypriot Legislative Council members was increased in favor of British officials. The aforementioned setbacks did not put a halt to the spread of the Megali Idea (Great Idea) and the closely related Enosis (Union) ideologies, the ultimate goal of which was the incorporation of all areas populated by Greeks into an independent Greek state. The November 1926 appointment of Ronald Storrs (a philhellene) as the new governor of Cyprus, fostered the idea among Greek Cypriot nationalists that British rule would be a stepping stone for the eventual union with Greece. \n\nTheir relationship was to sour in 1928, when Greek Cypriots refused to take part in the celebration of the 15th anniversary of the British occupation of Cyprus. Greece once again appealed for calm, limiting the spread of anti-colonial articles in Greek Cypriot newspapers. Education became another arena of conflict with the passage of the Education Act, which sought to curtail Greek influence in the Cypriot school curricula. The Church of Cyprus which at the time played an important role in the social and political life of the island became one of the bastions of Greek nationalism. Cypriot irredentists also lamented the supposedly preferential treatment of Malta and Egypt at the expense of Cyprus. Relations worsened further when the British authorities unilaterally passed a new penal code which permitted among other things the use of torture. In 1929, Legislative Council members Archbishop of Kition Nikodemos and Stavros Stavrinakis arrived in London, presenting a memorandum to the secretary of colonies Lord Passfield which contained demands for Enosis. As with previous such attempts the answer was negative.\n\nIn September 1931, Storrs blocked a Legislative Council decision to halt tax hikes that were to cover a local budget deficit. Greek Cypriot MPs reacted by resigning from their positions. Furthermore, on 18 October, Archbishop of Kition Nikodemos called Greek Cypriots to engage in acts of civil disobedience until their demands for Enosis were fulfilled. On 21 October, 5,000 Greek Cypriots, mostly students, priests and city notables rallied in the streets of Nicosia while chanting pro–Enosis slogans. The crowd besieged the Government House, following three hours of stone throwing the building was set on fire, the rioters were eventually dispersed by police. At the same time British flags were stripped from public offices across the country, often being substituted with Greek ones. Order was restored by the beginning of November.The British accused the Greek general counsel in Nicosia Alexis Kyrou (a Greek nationalist of Cypriot descent) of instigating the revolt. Kyrou had indeed worked behind the scenes to create a united opposition front against the British prior to the revolt, in direct disobedience to the orders he received from Athens. A total of 7 protesters were killed, 30 were injured, 10 were exiled for life, while 2,606 received various punishments ranging from prison terms to fines on account of seditious activities.\n\nThe revolt led to the dismissal of Kyrou whose actions had inadvertently damaged both the Enotic cause and the Anglo–Hellenic relations. The revolt also dealt a blow to Storrs' career, he was soon transferred to the post of Governor of Northern Rhodesia. The Legislative Council and municipal elections were abolished, the appointment of village authorities and district judges was relegated to the governor of the island. Propagating Enotic ideas and flying foreign flags was banned as was the assembly of more than 5 people. The new measures were aimed at suppressing the operation of the Orthodox church and communist organizations. Censorship had a severe effect on the operation of newspapers especially those associated with left wing politics. Cyprus thus entered a period of autocratic rule known as \"Palmerokratia\" (Παλμεροκρατία, \"Palmerocracy\"), named after governor Richmond Palmer, which started shortly before the revolt and would last until the beginning of World War II. The revolt has been described as the most severe anti-colonial movement that Britain faced in the interwar period. The revolt is known in Cypriot historiography as \"Oktovriana\" (October Events).\n\nMonuments commemorating the October Events were erected in Strovolos and Pissouri in November 2007 and October 2016 respectively.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "407075", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=407075", "title": "Adamantios Korais", "text": "Adamantios Korais\n\nAdamantios Korais or Koraïs (; ; ; 27 April 17486 April 1833) was a Greek scholar credited with laying the foundations of Modern Greek literature and a major figure in the Greek Enlightenment. His activities paved the way for the Greek War of Independence and the emergence of a purified form of the Greek language, known as Katharevousa. \"Encyclopædia Britannica\" asserts that \"his influence on the modern Greek language and culture has been compared to that of Dante on Italian and Martin Luther on German\".\n\nKorais was born in Smyrna, in 1748. His father Ioannis, of Chian descent, was \"demogérontas\" in Smyrna; a seat similar to the prokritoi of mainland Greece, but elected by the Greek community of the town and not imposed by the Ottomans.\nHe was exceptionally passionate about philosophy, literacy and linguistics and studied greatly throughout his youth. He initially studied in his home place, where he graduated from the Evangelical Greek School. \n\nAfter his school years, he lived for a while in Amsterdam as a merchant, but soon he decided that he wanted to study in a university. He studied also the Jewish, Dutch, French and English languages, apart from his knowledge of ancient Greek and Latin. \n\nKorais studied at the school of medicine of the University of Montpellier from 1782 to 1787. His 1786 diploma thesis was entitled \"Pyretologiae Synopsis\", while his 1787 doctoral thesis was entitled \"Medicus Hippocraticus\". \n\nHe traveled to Paris where he would continue his enthusiasm for knowledge. There he decided to translate ancient Greek authors and produced thirty volumes of those translations, being one of the first modern Greek philologists and publishers of ancient Greek literature.\n\nAfter 1788 he was to spend most of his life as an expatriate in Paris. A classical scholar, Korais was repelled by the Byzantine influence in Greek society and was a fierce critic of the lack of education amongst the clergy and their subservience to the Ottoman Empire, although he conceded it was the Orthodox Church that preserved the national identity of Greeks.\n\nWhile in Paris, he was witness to the French Revolution. He was influenced by the revolutionary and liberal sentiments of his age. He admired Thomas Jefferson; and exchanged political and philosophical thoughts with the American statesman. A typical man of the Enlightenment, Korais encouraged wealthy Greeks to open new libraries and schools throughout Greece. Korais believed that education would ensure not only the achievement of independence but also the establishment of a proper constitution for the new liberated Greek state. He envisioned a democratic Greece, recapturing the glory of the Golden Age of Pericles.\n\nKorais died in Paris aged 84 soon after publishing the first volume of his autobiography. In 1877, his remains were sent to Greece, to be buried there.\n\nKorais's most lasting contributions were literary. Those who were instrumental in publishing, and presenting his work to the public were merchants from Chios. He felt eternally grateful to these merchants, since without them, it would have been financially impossible for him to publish his works. These works included Strabo in Greek, another on Marcus Aurelius, his translation of Herodotus, the translation of the Iliad, and his main literary work, the seventeen volumes of the \"Library of Greek Literature\".\n\nHis political writing really begins with the publication at the opening of the nineteenth century of \"Asma Polemistirion\" (\"War Chant\") and \"Salpisma Polemistirion\" (\"Military Bugal Call\"), celebrating the presence of Greek troops fighting alongside the French in Egypt. Earlier he had attacked with his \"Adelphiki Didaskalia\" the Greek Patriarch of Jerusalem for urging the Sultan's Christian subjects to support him in the war against the 'atheistic' French.\n\nKorais went on to publish in 1803 his \"Report on the Present State of Civilization in Greece\", based on a series of lectures he had given in Paris, extolling the link between the rise of a new Greek mercantile class and the advance of the Greek Enlightenment or Diafotismos. In \"What should we Greeks do in the Present Circumstances?\", a work of 1805, he tried to win his compatriots over to Napoleon and away from the cause of their Russian co-religionists. In later years, though, his enthusiasm for the French Emperor diminished, and he ended by referring to him as the 'tyrant of tyrants.'\n\nAway from contemporary politics, Korais did much to revive the idea of Greece with the creation of the Hellenic Library, devoted to new editions of some of the classic texts, starting with Homer in 1805. Over the following twenty years many others appeared, with lengthy prefaces by Korais entitled 'Impromptu Reflections', with his views on political, educational and linguistic matters. Although the broad mass of the Greek people was beyond his reach, he played an important part in the shaping of a new consciousness among the intelligentsia, which was to play a part in the creation of a new national movement.\n\nKorais was a Greek Orthodox but also a critic of many practices of the Orthodox church. He was a fierce critic of the Ecumenical Patriarch of Constantinople, considering it as a useful tool in the hands of the Ottomans against the Greek independence. So, later, he was one of the supporters of the new established Church of Greece.\n\nHe was also critic of the monasticism, the ignorance of the clergy, and practices like that of the \"Holy Fire\". He was a supporter of religious freedom, empiricism, rationalism and tolerance. He set himself in opposition to some metaphysical ideals of Greek custom and sought to mould Greek Orthodoxy towards a more syncretic religious basis, in order to bring it under the auspices of liberal thought and government.\n\nOne of his most significant accomplishments was his contribution to the redefining of the Greek Language. The Greeks were dispersed so widely across Europe, people who served several masters. He decided to purge the Demotic (the vernacular or spoken language) of foreign elements (such as Turkish, but also Western, words and phrases). His vision led to the creation of Katharevousa by future scholars.\n\nHis intent was to bring the language as close as possible to the classic of Ancient Greece. This effort ultimately led to his publishing the \"Atakta\", the first Modern Greek dictionary.\n\nUnknown to most, Korais held passionate views on how the legal system should function in a democracy (views which of course, were greatly influenced by the French Enlightenment, closer to Montesquieu than to Rousseau) and managed to have a great, albeit indirect, impact on the Constitutions of the Greek Revolution, but also, primarily, on the Constitutions or Syntagma created after the end of the Greek Revolution. This element holds significant importance if one takes into consideration the fact that these meta-Revolution Constitutions still, to the present day, form the basis of the Greek Constitution and the philosophy on which the guiding principles of the Greek legal and judicial system are rooted in.\n\nThis influence Korais exercised on Greek Law, was due to a personal relationship the intellectual formed with another Greek intellectual, the legal scholar of international repute N. I. Saripolos, who, after the Greek Revolution, became the founding father of Greek Law and the \"author\" of the Greek Constitution. Proof of this relationship and of the strong and progressive views Korais held on how the legal system of the new Greek state should be formed, is based on correspondence exchanged between the two men, during a long period of time, beginning before the Greek Revolution. These letters which manifest the influence the older intellectual (Korais) had on the then aspiring lawmaker Saripolos, are in the possession of the archives of the Greek National Library, were discovered and brought to academic light, in 1996, by a Law School student, researching a project sponsored by the Faculty of Law of the University of Athens and the National Academy for Constitutional Research and Public Law (adjacent to the University of Athens). The ensuing thesis was published.\n\nKorais was declared \"Pater Patriae\" (\"Pateras tis Patridos\") by the revolutionaries at the Third National Assembly at Troezen.\n\nKorais' portrait was depicted on the reverse of the Greek 100 drachmas banknote of 1978–2001.\n\n"}
{"id": "18192555", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18192555", "title": "Adolf Mahr", "text": "Adolf Mahr\n\nAdolf Mahr (7 May 1887 - 27 May 1951) was an Austrian archaeologist, who served as director of the National Museum of Ireland in Dublin, Ireland, in the 1930s, and is credited with advancing the work of the museum substantially. Through his becoming the Leader of the Dublin Nazi chapter, and later broadcasting propaganda from Germany, he became a highly controversial figure in twentieth-century Irish history, and was not allowed to return to his job after the war.\n\nMahr was born in May 1887 in Trent in the southern reaches of the Habsburg Empire. His father, , and grandfather, Franz Anton Mahr (1830–1891), were military bandmasters and well-known composers. His mother, Maria Antonia Schroll, like his father, was a German from the Sudetenland. Mahr was brought up as a Roman Catholic, later becoming an atheist, and later still (at least nominally) Protestant.\n\nMahr served in the Austrian Army in 1906, attaining the rank of lieutenant, and then studied geography and prehistory at the University of Vienna, where he also sustained a long-term arm injury while duelling.\n\nMahr went to work for a museum in Linz, Austria's third city, and then the Natural History and Prehistoric Museum of Vienna, where he rose to the ranks of curator and deputy director of a section.\n\nHis excavation work included early exploration of the salt mine and Iron Age Celtic cemetery at Hallstatt. \n\nMahr arrived in Ireland in 1927 to work as Senior Keeper of (Irish) Antiquities in the National Museum of Ireland in Dublin, succeeding Walther Bremer. Mahr implemented the recommendations of Professor Nils Lithberg on reorganisation of the collections, and otherwise worked to bring order to the museum's holdings. One of his key achievements was the production of a card index of excavations and finds, and he also drove a return to active archaeological dig work, after an interval of decades.\n\nIn 1934 Éamon de Valera appointed Mahr as the director of the museum, for which he built an international reputation through creativity and dedication. de Valera was so impressed with his commitment that he wrote him a personal cheque for one excavation project, in Drimnagh, Dublin, for what was then a considerable sum.\n\nDuring a stay for an archaeology congress in Berlin and family visit to Austria, on September 1, 1939, he was kept by Nazi Germany (\"Heim ins Reich\") (the ship did not leave the harbour) due to the outbreak of the war, and could not return to his directorship, from which he took a leave of absence. At the time, he still expected to be back in Dublin by early 1940.\n\nAs the Nazi Party rose to power in Germany in the 1930s, Mahr had joined in 1933 and became the Local Group Leader (\"Ortsgruppenleiter\") of the official Nazi Party in Ireland - the Auslandsorganisation (NSDAP-AO). During his spell as Nazi leader he recruited roughly 23 Germans.\n\nLater, Mahr was arrested and (falsely) accused of being a Nazi spy, using his position as Director of the National Museum to plan Hitler's invasion of Ireland. After his release, Mahr tried to return to his director’s position in Ireland, but was not allowed to do so.\n\nMahr sought to return to his directorship, and the Taoiseach was originally in favour, given his achievements, but there was opposition from the Head of Military Intelligence, and a vocal TD. In the end, Mahr was left in Germany, but given some pension, and derived some income from occasional lectures. He died of heart failure in Bonn while preparing for a new job, on 27 May 1951.\n\nIn 1921 Mahr married Maria van Bemmelen (1901-1975), daughter of a Dutch university professor. They had four children, two born in Ireland, and all were raised in Dublin in the 1930s but stranded in Germany and Austria in September 1939, ending up in post-war Germany. His marriage deteriorated from 1941. One daughter later moved back to Ireland for a time.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51919781", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51919781", "title": "Albert Bruckner", "text": "Albert Bruckner\n\nAlbert Bruckner (13 July 1904, Basel – 10 December 1985, Finkenberg, aged 81) was a Swiss historian, palaeographer and medievalist.\n\nAlbert Bruckner, the son of a pastor of the same name, studied history in Basel, Lausanne, Berlin, Florence and Münster. After his doctorate in Cologne in 1929, he was an assistant in Berlin. In 1931 he returned to Basel. From 1933 to 1941 he was active at the , and from 1961 to 1966 he was head of the department. From 1948 onwards, Bruckner was an extraordinary professor of medieval history at the University of Basel. From 1966 until 1974, he was head of the \"\".\n\nWith Robert Marichal, Albert Bruckner is at the origin of the \"Chartae Latinae Antiquiores\", a facsimile collection of documents written before 800, as a parallel company to the \"Codices Latini Antiquiores\". After Bruckner's death, Robert Marichal was left single publishing director until 1994, when he was replaced by Hartmut Atsma and Jean Vezin.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24946250", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24946250", "title": "Bellerophon (play)", "text": "Bellerophon (play)\n\nBellerophon (, \"Bellerophōn\") is an ancient Greek tragedy written by Euripides, based upon the myth of Bellerophon. Most of the play was lost by the end of the Antiquity, and only 90 verses, grouped into 29 fragments, currently survive. \n\nGiven the fragmentary state of this tragedy, the plot remains open to conjecture. Most modern critics nevertheless agree on the following storyline. \n\nThe play apparently began with Bellerophon riding his horse Pegasus carried in the air by the crane.\n\nBellerophon, who seems to have lost everything, lives on an uncultivated land with his father Glaucos and Pegasus. Deeply pessimistic about his condition, Bellerophon eventually believes the gods do not exist. \n\nHe subsequently decides to reach Mt. Olympus, thanks to Pegasus's flying abilities. The motives of such an ascent have remained unclear. Regardless, Pegasus falls with his rider and the wounded Bellerophon is brought to the stage. Having repented for his blasphemous behaviour, Bellerophon dies.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56494", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56494", "title": "Bergen", "text": "Bergen\n\nBergen (), historically Bjørgvin, is a city and municipality in Hordaland on the west coast of Norway. , the municipality's population was 280,216, and the Bergen metropolitan region has about 420,000 inhabitants. Bergen is the second-largest city in Norway. The municipality covers and is on the peninsula of Bergenshalvøyen. The city centre and northern neighbourhoods are on Byfjorden, 'the city fjord', and the city is surrounded by mountains; Bergen is known as the 'city of seven mountains'. Many of the extra-municipal suburbs are on islands. Bergen is the administrative centre of Hordaland, and consists of eight boroughs - Arna, Bergenhus, Fana, Fyllingsdalen, Laksevåg, Ytrebygda, Årstad, and Åsane.\n\nTrading in Bergen may have started as early as the 1020s. According to tradition, the city was founded in 1070 by king Olav Kyrre and was named Bjørgvin, 'the green meadow among the mountains'. It served as Norway's capital in the 13th century, and from the end of the 13th century became a bureau city of the Hanseatic League. Until 1789, Bergen enjoyed exclusive rights to mediate trade between Northern Norway and abroad and it was the largest city in Norway until the 1830s when it was surpassed by the capital, Christiania (now known as Oslo). What remains of the quays, Bryggen, is a World Heritage Site. The city was hit by numerous fires over the years. The Bergen School of Meteorology was developed at the Geophysical Institute beginning in 1917, the Norwegian School of Economics was founded in 1936, and the University of Bergen in 1946. From 1831 to 1972, Bergen was its own county. In 1972 the municipality absorbed four surrounding municipalities and became a part of Hordaland county.\n\nThe city is an international center for aquaculture, shipping, offshore petroleum industry and subsea technology, and a national centre for higher education, media, tourism and finance. Bergen Port is Norway's busiest in terms of both freight and passengers with over 300 cruise ship calls a year bringing nearly a half a million passengers to Bergen, a number that has doubled in 10 years. Almost half of the passengers are German or British. The city's main football team is SK Brann and the city's unique tradition is the buekorps. Natives speak a distinct dialect, known as 'Bergensk'. The city features Bergen Airport, Flesland, Bergen Light Rail, and is the terminus of the Bergen Line. Four large bridges connect Bergen to its suburban municipalities.\n\nBergen has a mild winter climate, though with a lot of precipitation. During December - March, the temperature difference between Bergen and Oslo can be up to 30 degrees Celsius, despite the fact that both cities are at approximately 60 degrees North. The Gulf Stream keeps the sea relatively warm, considering the latitude, and the mountains protect the city from cold winds from the north, north-east and east.\n\nThe city of Bergen was traditionally thought to have been founded by king Olav Kyrre, son of Harald Hardråde in 1070 AD, four years after the Viking Age ended with the Battle of Stamford Bridge. Modern research has, however, discovered that a trading settlement was already established during the 1020s or 1030s. \n\nBergen gradually assumed the function of capital of Norway in the early 13th century, as the first city where a rudimentary central administration was established. The city's cathedral was the site of the first royal coronation in Norway in the 1150s, and continued to host royal coronations throughout the 13th century. \n\nBergenhus fortress dates from 1240s and guards the entrance to the harbour in Bergen. The functions of the capital city were lost to Oslo during the reign of King Haakon V (1299-1319). \n\nIn the middle of the 14th century, North German merchants who had already been present in substantial numbers since the 13th century, founded one of the four \"\" of the Hanseatic League at Bryggen in Bergen.\n\nThe principal export traded from Bergen was dried cod from the northern Norwegian coast, which started around 1100. The city was granted monopoly with regard to trade from the north of Norway, by King Håkon Håkonsson (1217-1263). Stockfish was the main reason that the city became one of North Europe's largest centres for trade at the time. By the late 14th century, Bergen had established itself as the centre of the trade in Norway. The Hanseatic merchants lived in their own separate quarter of town, where Middle Low German was used, enjoying exclusive rights to trade with the northern fishermen who each summer sailed to Bergen. Today, Bergen's old quayside, Bryggen, is on UNESCO's list of World Heritage Sites.\nIn 1349, the Black Death was inadvertently brought to Norway by the crew of an English ship arriving in Bergen. In the 15th century, the city was attacked several times by the Victual Brothers, and in 1429 they succeeded in burning the royal castle and much of the city. In 1665, the city's harbour was the site of the Battle of Vågen, where an English naval flotilla attacked a Dutch merchant and treasure fleet supported by the city's garrison.\n\nThroughout the 15th and 16th centuries, Bergen remained one of the largest cities in Scandinavia, and was Norway's biggest city until the 1830s, when the capital city of Oslo became the largest. From around 1600, the Hanseatic dominance of the city's trade gradually declined in favour of Norwegian merchants (often of Hanseatic ancestry), and in the 1750s, the Hanseatic \"\" finally closed. Bergen retained its monopoly of trade with Northern Norway until 1789.\n\nThe Bergen stock exchange, \"\", was established in 1813.\n\nBergen was separated from Hordaland as a county of its own in 1831. It was established as a municipality on 1 January 1838 (see ). The rural municipality of was merged with Bergen on 1 January 1877. The rural municipality of Årstad was merged with Bergen on 1 July 1915. The rural municipalities of Arna, Fana, Laksevåg, and Åsane were merged with Bergen on 1 January 1972. The city lost its status as a separate county on the same date. Bergen is now a municipality in Norway, in the county of Hordaland.\n\nDuring World War II, Bergen was occupied on the first day of the German invasion on 9 April 1940, after a brief fight between German ships and the Norwegian coastal artillery. On 20 April 1944, during the German occupation, the Dutch cargo ship \" anchored off the Bergenhus Fortress, loaded with over 120 tons of explosives, blew up, killing at least 150 people and damaging historic buildings. The city was subject to some Allied bombing raids, aimed at German naval installations in the harbour. Some of these caused Norwegian civilian casualties numbering about 100.\n\nThe Norwegian resistance movement groups in Bergen were Saborg, Milorg, \", Sivorg, \"\" and the Communist Party.\n\nThe city's history is marked by numerous great fires. In 1198, the faction set fire to the city in connection with a battle against the faction during the civil war. In 1248, and burned, and 11 churches were destroyed. In 1413 another fire struck the city, and 14 churches were destroyed. In 1428 the city was plundered by German pirates, and in 1455, Hanseatic merchants were responsible for burning down Munkeliv Abbey. In 1476, burned down in a fire started by a drunk trader. In 1582, another fire hit the city centre and . In 1675, 105 buildings burned down in . In 1686 a new great fire hit , destroying 231 city blocks and 218 boathouses. The greatest fire to date happened in 1702 when 90 percent of the city was burned to ashes. In 1751, there was a great fire at . In 1756, a new fire at burned down 1,500 buildings, and further great fires hit in 1771 and 1901. In 1916, 300 buildings burned down in the city centre, and in 1955 parts of burned down.\n\nBergen is pronounced in English or and in Norwegian . The Old Norse forms of the name were ' and ' (and in Icelandic and Faroese the city is still called '). The first element is (n.) or ' (n.), which translates to 'mountain(s)'. The last element is (f.), which means a new settlement where there used to be a pasture or meadow. The full meaning is then 'the meadow among the mountains'. A suitable name: Bergen is often called 'the city among the seven mountains'. It was the playwright Ludvig Holberg who felt so inspired by the seven hills of Rome, that he decided that his home town must be blessed with a corresponding seven mountains - and locals still argue which seven they are.\n\nIn 1918, there was a campaign to re-introduce the Norse form ' as the name of the city. This was turned down - but as a compromise, the name of the diocese was changed to '.\n\nBergen occupies most of the peninsula of Bergenshalvøyen in the district of Midthordland in mid-western Hordaland. The municipality covers an area of . Most of the urban area is on or close to a fjord or bay, although the urban area has several mountains. The city centre is surrounded by the Seven Mountains, although there is disagreement as to which of the nine mountains constitute these. Ulriken, Fløyen, Løvstakken and Damsgårdsfjellet are always included as well as three of Lyderhorn, Sandviksfjellet, Blåmanen, Rundemanen and Kolbeinsvarden. Gullfjellet is Bergen's highest mountain, at above mean sea level.\n\nBergen is sheltered from the North Sea by the islands Askøy, Holsnøy (the municipality of Meland) and Sotra (the municipalities of Fjell and Sund). Bergen borders the municipalities Meland, Lindås, and Osterøy to the north, Vaksdal and Samnanger to the east, Os and Austevoll to the south, and Sund, Fjell, and Askøy to the west.\n\nBergen features a temperate oceanic climate (Köppen: Cfb). Bergen experiences plentiful rainfall in all seasons, with annual precipitation measuring on average. This is because Bergen is surrounded by mountains that cause moist North Atlantic air to undergo orographic lift, yielding abundant rainfall. It rained every day from 29 October 2006 to 21 January 2007, 85 consecutive days. The highest temperature ever recorded was on 27 July 2018 and the lowest was in January 1987.\n\nBergen's weather is warmer than the city's latitude (60.4° N) might suggest. Temperatures below -10 degrees Celsius are rare. Summer temperatures sometimes reach the upper 20s, but the city sees temperatures over 30 degrees only a few days each decade.\n\nThe high precipitation is often used in the marketing of the city, and features to a degree on postcards sold in the city. Compared to areas behind the mountains on the Scandinavian peninsula, Bergen is much wetter and has a narrower temperature range with cool summers and mild winters.\n\nIn recent years, precipitation and winds have increased in the city. In late 2005, heavy rains caused floods and several landslides, the worst of which killed three people on 14 September. Some indications are that, due to climate change, storms causing landslides and floods will become more severe in the area and in the surrounding counties. As a response, the municipality created a special 24-man rescue unit within the fire department in 2005, to respond to future slides and other natural disasters, and neighbourhoods considered at risk of slides were surveyed in 2006. The prediction was supported by over 480 landslides in Hordaland county from the spring of 2006 to the summer of 2007. Most of the slides hit roads, however none of them caused damage to cars, buildings, or people, until October 2007, when a large dislodged rock killed a motorist. \n\nAnother concern is the risk of rising sea levels. Bryggen is already regularly flooded at extreme tides, and it is feared that as sea levels rise, floods will become a major problem in Bergen. Floods may in the future reach the railroad tracks leading out of the city. Among others, Stiftelsen Bryggen, the foundation responsible for preserving the UNESCO site, has suggested that a sea wall, one that could be raised and lowered as demanded by the tides, be built outside the harbour to protect the city. \n\n, the municipality had a population of 280,216, making the population density 599 people per km. , the main urban area of Bergen had 254,235 residents and covered an area of . Other urban areas, as defined by Statistics Norway, consist of Indre Arna (6,536 residents on 1 January 2012), Fanahammeren (3,690), Ytre Arna (2,626), Hylkje (2,277) and Espeland (2,182).\n\nEthnic Norwegians make up 84.5% of Bergen's residents. In addition, 8.1% were first or second generation immigrants of Western background and 7.4% were first or second generation immigrants of non-Western background. The population grew by 4,549 people in 2009, a growth rate of 1,8%. Ninety-six percent of the population lives in urban areas. As of 2002, the average gross income for men above the age of 17 is 426,000 Norwegian krone (NOK), the average gross income for women above the age of 17 is NOK 238,000, with the total average gross income being NOK 330,000. In 2007, there were 104.6 men for every 100 women in the age group of 20-39. 22.8% of the population were under 17 years of age, while 4.5% were 80 and above.\n\nThe immigrant population (those with two foreign-born parents) in Bergen, includes 42,169 individuals with backgrounds from 180 countries representing 15.5% of the city's population (2014). Of these, 50.2% have background from Europe, 28.9% from Asia, 13.1% from Africa, 5.5% from Latin America, 1.9% from North America, and 0.4% from Oceania. The immigrant population in Bergen in the period 1993-2008 increased by 119.7%, while the ethnic Norwegian population grew by 8.1% during the same period. The national average is 138.0% and 4.2%. The immigrant population has thus accounted for 43.6% of Bergen's population growth and 60.8% of Norway's population growth during the period 1993-2008, compared with 84.5% in Oslo.\n\nThe immigrant population in Bergen has changed a lot since 1970. As of 1 January 1986, there were 2,870 people with a non-Western immigrant background in Bergen. In 2006, this figure had increased to 14,630, so the non-Western immigrant population in Bergen was five times higher than in 1986. This is a slightly slower growth than the national average, which has sextupled during the same period. Also in relation to the total population in Bergen, the proportion of non-Westerns increased significantly. In 1986, the proportion of the total population in the municipality of non-Western background was 3.6%. In January 2006, people with a non-Western immigrant background accounted for 6 percent of the population in Bergen. The share of Western immigrants has remained stable at around 2% in the period. The number of Poles in Bergen rose from 697 in 2006 to 3,128 in 2010.\nThe Church of Norway is the largest denomination in Bergen, with 201,006 (79.74%) registered adherents in 2012. Bergen is the seat of the Diocese of Bjørgvin with Bergen Cathedral as its centrepiece, while St John's Church is the city's most prominent. As of 2012, the state church is followed by 52,059 irreligious 4,947 members of various Protestant free churches, 3,873 actively registrered Catholics 2,707 registered Muslims, 816 registered Hindus, 255 registered Russian Orthodox and 147 registered Oriental Orthodox.\n\nThe city centre of Bergen lies in the west of the municipality, facing the fjord of Byfjorden. It is among a group of mountains known as the Seven Mountains, although the number is a matter of definition. From here, the urban area of Bergen extends to the north, west and south, and to its east is a large mountain massif. Outside the city centre and the surrounding neighbourhoods (i.e. Årstad, inner Laksevåg and Sandviken), the majority of the population lives in relatively sparsely populated residential areas built after 1950. While some are dominated by apartment buildings and modern terraced houses (e.g. Fyllingsdalen), others are dominated by single-family homes.\nThe oldest part of Bergen is the area around the bay of Vågen in the city centre. Originally centred on the bay's eastern side, Bergen eventually expanded west and southwards. Few buildings from the oldest period remain, the most significant being St Mary's Church from the 12th century. For several hundred years, the extent of the city remained almost constant. The population was stagnant, and the city limits were narrow. In 1702, seven-eighths of the city burned. Most of the old buildings of Bergen, including Bryggen (which was rebuilt in a mediaeval style), were built after the fire. The fire marked a transition from tar covered houses, as well as the remaining log houses, to painted and some brick-covered wooden buildings.\n\nThe last half of the 19th century saw a period of rapid expansion and modernisation. The fire of 1855 west of Torgallmenningen led to the development of regularly sized city blocks in this area of the city centre. The city limits were expanded in 1876, and Nygård, Møhlenpris and Sandviken were urbanized with large-scale construction of city blocks housing both the poor and the wealthy. Their architecture is influenced by a variety of styles; historicism, classicism and Art Nouveau. The wealthy built villas between Møhlenpris and Nygård, and on the side of Mount Fløyen; these areas were also added to Bergen in 1876. Simultaneously, an urbanization process was taking place in Solheimsviken in Årstad, at that time outside the Bergen municipality, centred on the large industrial activity in the area. The workers' homes in this area were poorly built, and little remains after large-scale redevelopment in the 1960s-1980s.\n\nAfter Årstad became a part of Bergen in 1916, a development plan was applied to the new area. Few city blocks akin to those in Nygård and Møhlenpris were planned. Many of the worker class built their own homes, and many small, detached apartment buildings were built. After World War II, Bergen had again run short of land to build on, and, contrary to the original plans, many large apartment buildings were built in Landås in the 1950s and 1960s. Bergen acquired Fyllingsdalen from Fana municipality in 1955. Like similar areas in Oslo (e.g. Lambertseter), Fyllingsdalen was developed into a modern suburb with large apartment buildings, mid-rises, and some single-family homes, in the 1960s and 1970s. Similar developments took place beyond Bergen's city limits, for example in Loddefjord.\n\nAt the same time as planned city expansion took place inside Bergen, its extra-municipal suburbs also grew rapidly. Wealthy citizens of Bergen had been living in Fana since the 19th century, but as the city expanded it became more convenient to settle in the municipality. Similar processes took place in Åsane and Laksevåg. Most of the homes in these areas are detached row houses, single family homes or small apartment buildings. After the surrounding municipalities were merged with Bergen in 1972, expansion has continued in largely the same manner, although the municipality encourages condensing near commercial centres, future Bergen Light Rail stations, and elsewhere.\n\nAs part of the modernisation wave of the 1950s and 1960s, and due to damage caused by World War II, the city government ambitiously planned redevelopment of many areas in central Bergen. The plans involved demolition of several neighbourhoods of wooden houses, namely Nordnes, Marken, and Stølen. None of the plans was carried out in its original form; the Marken and Stølen redevelopment plans were discarded and that of Nordnes only carried out in the area that had been most damaged by war. The city council of Bergen had in 1964 voted to demolish the entirety of Marken, however, the decision proved to be highly controversial and the decision was reversed in 1974. Bryggen was under threat of being wholly or partly demolished after the fire of 1955, when a large number of the buildings burned to the ground. Instead of being demolished, the remaining buildings were restored and accompanied by reconstructions of some of the burned buildings.\n\nDemolition of old buildings and occasionally whole city blocks is still taking place, the most recent major example being the 2007 razing of Jonsvollskvartalet at Nøstet.\n\nBillboards are banned in the city.\nSince 2000, the city of Bergen has been governed by a city government (\"byråd\") based on the principle of parliamentarism. The government consists of seven government members called commissioners, and is appointed by the city council, the supreme authority of the city. After the local elections of 2007, the city has been ruled by a right-wing coalition of the Progress Party, the Christian Democratic Party, and the Conservative Party, each with two commissioners. The Conservative Party member Trude Drevland is mayor-on unpaid leave since 1 September 2015, while conservative Ragnhild Stolt-Nielsen is the leader of the city government, the most powerful political position in Bergen.\n\nAfter the 2015 landslide elections for the Labour party, Marte Mjøs Persen (Labour Party) is the new Bergen mayor, and Harald Schjeldrup (Labour Party) the new Bergen governing mayor. The Labour Party has formed a new centre-left city government including the Labour Party, the Liberal Party, and the Christian Democrats.\n\nThere were Norwegian local elections, 2011.\n\nThe 2007 city council elections were held on 10 September. The Socialist Left Party (SV) and the Pensioners Party (PP) ended up as the losers of the election, SV going from 11.6% of the votes in the 2003 elections to 7.1%, and PP losing 2.9% ending up at 1.2%. The Liberal Party more than doubled, going from 2.7% to 5.8%. The Conservative Party lost 1.1% of the votes, ending up at 26.3%, while the Progress Party got 20.2% of the votes, a gain of 3% since the 2003 elections. The Christian Democratic Party gained 0.2%, ending up at 6.3%. The Red Electoral Alliance lost 1.4%, ending up at 4.5%, while the Centre Party gained 1.2%, ending up at 2.8%. Finally, the Labour Party continued being the second-largest party in the city, gaining 1% and ending up at 23.9%.\n\nIn the 2015 election, the Labour Party won the Bergen election with a landslide, and got 37,8 % of the votes, up 9 percent from 2011, while the Conservative party lost 12,8 % and ended up at just 22,1 %. The Labour Party formed a new centre-left city government with the Liberal Party and the Christian Democrats. The Labour Party is now holding both the mayor office and governing mayor office.\n\nCurrently, the party breakdown on the council is as follows:\n\nBergen is divided into eight boroughs, as seen on the map to the right. Clockwise, starting with the northernmost, the boroughs are Åsane, Arna, Fana, Ytrebygda, Fyllingsdalen, Laksevåg, Årstad and Bergenhus. The city centre is located in Bergenhus. Parts of Fana, Ytrebygda, Åsane and Arna are not part of the Bergen urban area, explaining why the municipality has approximately 20,000 more inhabitants than the urban area.\n\nLocal borough administrations have varied since Bergen's expansion in 1972. From 1974, each borough had a politically chosen administration. From 1989, Bergen was divided into 12 health and social districts, each locally administered. From 2000 to 2004, the former organizational form with eight politically chosen local administrations was again in use and from 2008 through to 2010, a similar form existed where the local administrations had less power than previously.\n(Pertaining to the table above: The acreage figures include fresh water and uninhabited mountain areas, except: \n\nSentrum (literally, \"Centre\") was a borough (with the same name as a present-day neighbourhood). The borough was numbered \"01\", and its perimeter was from Store Lungegårdsvann and Strømmen along Puddefjorden around Nordnes and over to Skuteviken, up Mt. Fløyen east of Langelivannet, on to Skansemyren and over Forskjønnelsen to Store Lungegårdsvann, south of the railroad tracks.\n\nThe population of the (now defunct) borough, numbered in 1994 more than 18,000 people.\n\nThere are 64 elementary schools, 18 lower secondary schools and 20 upper secondary schools in Bergen, as well as 11 combined elementary and lower secondary schools. Bergen Cathedral School is the oldest school in Bergen and was founded by Pope Adrian IV in 1153.\n\nThe \"Bergen School of Meteorology\" was developed at the Geophysical Institute beginning in 1917, the Norwegian School of Economics was founded in 1936, and the University of Bergen in 1946.\n\nThe University of Bergen has 16,000 students and 3,000 staff, making it the third-largest educational institution in Norway. Research in Bergen dates back to activity at Bergen Museum in 1825, although the university was not founded until 1946. The university has a broad range of courses and research in academic fields and three national centres of excellence, in climate research, petroleum research and medieval studies. The main campus is located in the city centre. The university co-operates with Haukeland University Hospital within medical research. The Chr. Michelsen Institute is an independent research foundation established in 1930 focusing on human rights and development issues.\n\nWestern Norway University of Applied Sciences has 6,000 students and 600 staff. It focuses on professional education, such as teaching, healthcare and engineering. The college was created through amalgamation in 1994; campuses are spread around town but will be co-located at Kronstad. The Norwegian School of Economics is located in outer Sandviken and is the leading business school in Norway, having produced three Economy Nobel Prize laureates. The school has more than 3,000 students and approximately 400 staff. Other tertiary education institutions include the Bergen School of Architecture, the Bergen National Academy of the Arts, located in the city centre with 300 students, and the Norwegian Naval Academy located in Laksevåg. The Norwegian Institute of Marine Research has been located in Bergen since 1900. It provides research and advice relating to ecosystems and aquaculture. It has a staff of 700 people.\n\nIn August 2004, \"Time\" magazine named the city one of Europe's 14 \"secret capitals\" where Bergen's capital reign is acknowledged within maritime businesses and activities such as aquaculture and marine research, with the Institute of Marine Research (IMR) (the second-largest oceanography research centre in Europe) as the leading institution. Bergen is the main base for the Royal Norwegian Navy (at Haakonsvern) and its international airport Flesland is the main heliport for the Norwegian North Sea oil and gas industry, from where thousands of offshore workers commute to their work places onboard oil and gas rigs and platforms.\n\nOne of Norway's largest shopping centres, Lagunen Storsenter, is located in Fana in Bergen, with a turnover of 2,540 billion Norwegian kroner, and 5.2 million visitors every year.\n\nTourism is an important income source for the city. The hotels in the city may be full at times, due to the increasing number of tourists and conferences. Prior to the Rolling Stones concert in September 2006, many hotels were already fully booked several months in advance. Bergen is recognized as the unofficial capital of the region known as Western Norway, and recognized and marketed as the gateway city to the world-famous fjords of Norway, and for that reason, it has become Norway's largest - and one of Europe's largest - cruise ship ports of call.\n\nBergen Airport, Flesland, is located from the city centre, at Flesland. In 2013, the Avinor-operated airport served 6 million passengers. The airport serves as a hub for Scandinavian Airlines, Norwegian Air Shuttle and Widerøe; there are direct flights to 20 domestic and 53 international destinations. Bergen Port, operated by Bergen Port Authority, is the largest seaport in Norway.\nIn 2011, the port saw 264 cruise calls with 350,248 visitors, In 2009, the port handled 56 million tonnes of cargo, making it the ninth-busiest cargo port in Europe. There are plans to move the port out of the city centre, but no location has been chosen. Fjord Line operates a cruiseferry service to Hirtshals, Denmark. Bergen is the southern terminus of Hurtigruten, the Coastal Express, which operates with daily services along the coast to Kirkenes. Passenger catamarans run from Bergen south to Haugesund and Stavanger, and north to Sognefjord and Nordfjord.\n\nThe city centre is surrounded by an electronic toll collection ring using the Autopass system. The main motorways consist of E39, which runs north-south through the municipality, E16, which runs eastwards, and National Road 555, which runs westwards. There are four major bridges connecting Bergen to neighbouring municipalities: the Nordhordland Bridge, the Askøy Bridge, the Sotra Bridge and the Osterøy Bridge. Bergen connects to the island of Bjorøy via the subsea Bjorøy Tunnel.\nBergen Station is the terminus of the Bergen Line, which runs to Oslo. The Norwegian State Railways operates express trains to Oslo and the Bergen Commuter Rail to Voss. Between Bergen and Arna Station, the train runs about every 30 minutes through the Ulriken Tunnel; there is no corresponding road tunnel, forcing road vehicles to travel via Åsane or Nesttun.\n\nBergen is one of the smallest cities in Europe to have both tram and trolleybus electric urban transport systems simultaneously. Public transport in Hordaland is managed by Skyss, which operates an extensive city bus network in Bergen and to many neighbouring municipalities, including one route which operates as a trolleybus. The trolleybus system in Bergen is the only one still in operation in Norway and one of two trolleybus systems in Scandinavia.\nThe modern tram Bergen Light Rail (Bybanen) opened between the city centre and Nesttun in 2010, extended to Rådal (Lagunen Storsenter) in 2013 and to the Bergen airport Flesland in 2017. Extensions to other boroughs may occur later. Fløibanen is a funicular which runs from the city centre to Mount Fløyen and Ulriksbanen is an aerial tramway which runs to Mount Ulriken.\n\n\"Bergens Tidende\" (BT) and \"Bergensavisen\" (BA) are the largest newspapers, with circulations of 87,076 and 30,719 in 2006, \"BT\" is a regional newspaper covering all of Hordaland and Sogn og Fjordane, while \"BA\" focuses on metropolitan Bergen. Other newspapers published in Bergen include the Christian national \"Dagen\", with a circulation of 8.936, and \"TradeWinds\", an international shipping newspaper. Local newspapers are \"Fanaposten\" for Fana, \"Sydvesten\" for Laksevåg and Fyllingsdalen and \"Bygdanytt\" for Arna and the neighbouring municipality Osterøy. TV 2, Norway's largest private television company, is based in Bergen.\n\nThe 1,500-seat Grieg Hall is the city's main cultural venue, and home of the Bergen Philharmonic Orchestra, founded in 1765, and the Bergen Woodwind Quintet. The city also features Carte Blanche, the Norwegian national company of contemporary dance. The annual Bergen International Festival is the main cultural festival, which is supplemented by the Bergen International Film Festival. Two internationally renowned composers from Bergen are Edvard Grieg and Ole Bull. Grieg's home, Troldhaugen, has been converted to a museum. During the 1990s and early 2000s, Bergen produced a series of successful pop, rock and black metal artists, collectively known as the Bergen Wave.\n\nDen Nationale Scene is Bergen's main theatre. Founded in 1850, it had Henrik Ibsen as one of its first in-house playwrights and art directors. Bergen's contemporary art scene is centred on BIT Teatergarasjen, Bergen Kunsthall, United Sardines Factory (USF) and Bergen Center for Electronic Arts (BEK). Bergen was a European Capital of Culture in 2000. Buekorps is a unique feature of Bergen culture, consisting of boys aged from 7 to 21 parading with imitation weapons and snare drums. The city's Hanseatic heritage is documented in the Hanseatic Museum located at Bryggen.\n\nSK Brann is Bergen's premier football team; founded in 1908, they have played in the (men's) Norwegian Premier League for all but seven years since 1963 and consecutively, except one season after relegation in 2014, since 1987. The team were the football champions in 1961-1962, 1963, and 2007, and reached the quarter-finals of the Cup Winners' Cup in 1996-1997. Brann play their home games at the 17,824-seat Brann Stadion. FK Fyllingsdalen is the city's second-best team, playing in the Second Division at Varden Amfi. Its predecessor, Fyllingen, played in the Norwegian Premier League in 1990, 1991 and 1993. Arna-Bjørnar and Sandviken play in the Women's Premier League.\n\nBergen IK is the premier men's ice hockey team, playing at Bergenshallen in the First Division. Tertnes play in the Women's Premier Handball League, and Fyllingen in the Men's Premier Handball League. In athletics, the city is dominated by IL Norna-Salhus, IL Gular and FIK BFG Fana, formerly also Norrøna IL and TIF Viking.\n\nBergensk is the native dialect of Bergen and a variation of Vestnorsk. It was strongly influenced by Low German-speaking merchants from the mid-14th to mid-18th centuries. During the Dano-Norwegian period from 1536 to 1814, Bergen was more influenced by Danish than other areas of Norway. The Danish influence removed the female grammatical gender in the 16th century, making Bergensk one of very few Norwegian dialects with only two instead of three grammatical genders. The Rs are uvular trills, as in French, which probably spread to Bergen some time in the 18th century, overtaking the alveolar trill in the time span of two to three generations. Owing to an improved literacy rate, Bergensk was influenced by riksmål and bokmål in the 19th and 20th centuries. This led to large parts of the German-inspired vocabulary disappearing and pronunciations shifting slightly towards East Norwegian.\n\nThe 1986 edition of the Eurovision Song Contest took place in Bergen. Bergen was the host city for the 2017 UCI Road World Championships. The city is also a member of the UNESCO Creative Cities Network in the category of gastronomy since 2015.\n\nBergen is considered to be the street art capital of Norway. Famed artist Banksy visited the city in 2000 and inspired many to start creating street art. Soon after, the city brought up the most famous street artist in Norway: Dolk. His art can still be seen in several places in the city, and in 2009 the city council choose to preserve Dolk's work \"Spray\" with protective glass. In 2011, Bergen council launched a plan of action for street art in Bergen from 2011 to 2015 to ensure that \"Bergen will lead the fashion for street art as an expression both in Norway and Scandinavia.\n\nThe Madam Felle (1831-1908) monument in Sandviken, is in honour of a Norwegian woman of German origin, who in the mid-19th century managed, against the will of the council, to maintain a counter of beer. A well-known restaurant of the same name is now situated at another location in Bergen. The monument was erected in 1990 by sculptor Kari Rolfsen, supported by an anonymous donor. Madam Felle, civil name Oline Fell, was remembered after her death in a popular song, possibly originally a folksong, \"Kjenner Dokker Madam Felle?\" by Lothar Lindtner and Rolf Berntzen on an album in 1977.\n\nThe traditional neighbourhoods of Bergen include\nBryggen, Eidemarken, Engen, Fjellet, Kalfaret, Ladegården, Løvstakksiden, Marken, Minde, Møhlenpris, Nordnes, Nygård, Nøstet, Sandviken, Sentrum, Skansen, Skuteviken, Strandsiden, Stølen, Sydnes, Verftet, Vågsbunnen, Wergeland, and Ytre Sandviken.\n\nEach year Bergen donates the Christmas Tree seen in Newcastle's Haymarket as a sign of the ongoing friendship between the sister cities. The Nordic friendship cities of Bergen, Gothenburg, Turku and Aarhus arrange inter-Nordic camps each year by inviting 10th grade school classes from each of the other cities to school camps. Bergen received a totem pole as a gift of friendship from the city of Seattle on the city's 900th anniversary in 1970. It is now placed in the Nordnes Park and gazes out over the sea towards the friendship city far to the west.\n\n\n\nThe various addresses in Bergen, each belong to one of the various \"grunnkrets\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4888159", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4888159", "title": "Bill Gammage", "text": "Bill Gammage\n\nWilliam Leonard \"Bill\" Gammage (born 1942) is an Australian academic historian, Adjunct Professor and Senior Research Fellow at the Humanities Research Centre of the Australian National University (ANU).\nHe was born in Orange, New South Wales, went to Wagga Wagga High School and then to ANU. He was on the faculty of the University of Papua New Guinea and the University of Adelaide. He is a fellow of the Australian Academy of Social Sciences and deputy chair of the National Museum of Australia.\n\nGammage is best known for his book \"The Broken Years: Australian Soldiers in the Great War\", which is based on his PhD thesis written while at the Australian National University. It was first published in 1974, and re-printed in 1975, 1980, 1981 (the year in which Peter Weir's film, \"Gallipoli\" came out), 1985 and 1990. The study revives the tradition of C.E.W. Bean, Australia's official historian of World War I, who focused his narrative on the men in the line rather than the strategies of generals. Gammage corresponded with 272 Great War veterans, and consulted the personal records of another 728, mostly at the Australian War Memorial.\n\nHe has written several other books about the experiences of soldiers in World War I, including three definitive books about Australian soldiers in the war. He also co-edited the \"Australians 1938\" volume of the \"Bicentennial History of Australia\" (1988).\n\nIn 1998, Gammage joined the Humanities Research Centre at the ANU as a senior research fellow for the Australian Research Council, working on the history of Aboriginal land management. His scope was cross-disciplinary, working \"across fields as disparate as history, anthropology and botany\".\n\nIn the subsequent 13-year period he researched and wrote the book \"The Biggest Estate on Earth: How Aborigines made Australia\", released in October 2011. It won the 2012 Prime Minister's Prize for Australian History in the Prime Minister's Literary Awards, the 2011 Manning Clark House National Cultural Awards in the individual category, was shortlisted for the 2012 Kay Daniels Award, the History Book Award of the 2012 Queensland Literary Awards and awarded the 2012 Victorian Premier's Literary Awards overall Victorian Prize for Literature on top of the non-fiction category prize.\n\nAs a historical adviser, Gammage has worked on many documentaries and his writing is cited as an authoritative source on Australia's participation in World War I. For the film \"Gallipoli\" directed by Peter Weir, Gammage was employed as the military advisor and he worked on the text that David Williamson turned into the screen play of the film.\n\nGammage produced a historical study of the Shire of Narrandera. Gammage was made a freeman of Narrandera Shire Council in 1987.\n\nHe was part of the Australian Broadcasting Commission Adelaide ANZAC Day Commemorative March commentary team until 2015.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47570239", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47570239", "title": "Blick Mead", "text": "Blick Mead\n\nBlick Mead is a chalkland spring in Wiltshire England, with a constant temperature of around 11 degrees C so that it never freezes. It is close to an Iron Age hill fort known as Vespasian's Camp and about a mile from the Stonehenge ancient monument. Archaeology at the site conducted since 2005 shows human habitation going back to 10,000BP and to be continuous until 6000 BP. 35,000 worked flints and 2400 animal bones, some cooked, mostly from aurochs, have been found at the site. There is also the remains of a pit dwelling. These have been used to radiocarbon date the time of settlement. It's clear that the site would have been an attractive place to camp or dwell with a spring that never freezes over. A rare algae called \"Hildenbrandia\" lives in the spring and it causes stones taken from it to turn bright red on exposure to air in a matter of hours. In Mesolithic times this could have given the place a magical significance. Its closeness to Stonehenge have led to theories that it is the original attraction that brought hunters to the area with the 'magic' colour changing stones giving the place a high spiritual significance in their culture.\n"}
{"id": "22355932", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22355932", "title": "C. S. Schilbred", "text": "C. S. Schilbred\n\nCornelius Severin Scheel Schilbred, often referred to as C. S. Schilbred (13 December 1906 – 10 April 1985) was a Norwegian genealogist, historian and educator. A school teacher and headmaster by occupation, he wrote extensively, and chaired the Norwegian Genealogical Society and the Norwegian Heraldry Society.\n\nHe was born in Eidanger as a son of Lieutenant Colonel Cornelius Mathias Schilbred (1878–1949) and Marie Henriette Petersen (1885–1965). In 1939 he married Margrethe Lomsdal (1908–2000).\n\nSchilbred grew up in Eidanger and Oslo. He finished his secondary education in 1925, enrolled in law studies and graduated with the cand.jur. degree in 1931. While studying he was an editor of the politically conservative periodical \"Minerva\", and in 1928 a member of the board of the Norwegian Students' Society. In 1926, despite his young age, he was among the founders of the Norwegian Genealogical Society. This was Norway's first national genealogical society.\n\nSchilbred spent his entire professional career as a teacher and headmaster in Oslo. In his spare time he had a considerable production of genealogical and local-historical works. He became a member of the board of the Norwegian Genealogical Society in 1952, served as vice chairman from 1957 and then chairman from 1968 to 1980. He edited its official periodical \"Norsk slektshistorisk tidsskrift\" from 1960 to 1967. He had formerly edited \"Tidsskrift for handelsutdannelse\" from 1948 to 1953, and also contributed to \"Aschehougs konversasjonsleksikon\" and \"Store norske leksikon\". He also co-founded the Norwegian Heraldry Society in 1969. He was a member of the board from the start, vice chairman from 1970 and then chairman from 1973 to 1974. He also served as vice chairman of the Norwegian Society for the Protection of Animals.\n\nSchilbred was decorated as a Knight, First Class of the Order of St. Olav in 1977. He was an honorary member of the Society for the Protection of Animals. He died in April 1985 in Oslo.\n"}
{"id": "5216269", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5216269", "title": "Chimalpahin", "text": "Chimalpahin\n\nDomingo Francisco de San Antón Muñón Chimalpahin Quauhtlehuanitzin (1579, Amecameca, Chalco—1660, Mexico City), usually referred to simply as Chimalpahin or Chimalpain, was a Nahua annalist from Chalco. His Nahuatl names () mean \"Runs Swiftly with a Shield\" and \"Rising Eagle\", respectively, and he claimed descent from the lords of Tenango-Amecameca-Chalco.\n\nHe wrote on the history of Mexico and other neighboring nations in the Nahuatl and Spanish languages. The most important of his surviving works is the \"Relaciones\" or \"Anales\". This Nahuatl work was compiled in the early seventeenth century, and is based on testimony from Indigenous persons. It covers the years 1589 through 1615, but also deals with events before the Conquest and supplies lists of Indigenous kings and lords and Spanish viceroys, archbishops of Mexico and inquisitors. Chimalpahin recorded the 1610 and 1614 visits of Japanese delegations to Mexico, led by Tanaka Shōsuke and Hasekura Tsunenaga, respectively.\n\nHe also wrote \"Diferentes historias originales\" (also known as \"Relaciones originales\"), a compilation of claims and proofs of nobility asserted by Indigenous leaders of Chalco-Amequemecan. It was written to serve as a judicial guide for the viceregal authorities for the granting of privileges and offices to members of the Indigenous nobility. There are eight of these \"relaciones\". All contain ethnographic, social and chronologic information of great value to historians.\n\nHis manuscripts came into the possession of Carlos de Sigüenza y Góngora. For an account of what happened to these documents after the death of Sigüenza, see Lorenzo Boturini Benaducci.\n\n"}
{"id": "5863143", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5863143", "title": "Eduard Mahler", "text": "Eduard Mahler\n\nEduard Mahler, or Mahler Ede (September 28, 1857, Cífer, Austro-Hungarian Empire – June 29, 1945, Újpest) was a Hungarian-Austrian astronomer, Orientalist, natural scientist.\n\nHe graduated from the Vienna public school in 1876, and then studied mathematics and physics at the Universität Wien, taking his degree in 1880. From November 1, 1882, till the death of T. Oppolzer (December, 1886) Mahler shared in the latter's scientific labors. On June 1, 1885, he was appointed assistant in the royal Austrian commission on measurement of degrees.\n\nMahler has devoted himself chiefly to chronology. In early life, he paid considerable attention to ancient Oriental history, Assyriology, and Egyptology, in which subjects he was a present private docent at the University of Budapest. On September 6, 1889, he received the royal medal \"Litteris et Artibus\" of Sweden and Norway; and since 1898 he has been an official of the Hungarian National Museum.\n\nMahler has published:\n\nbesides many papers in Hungarian as well as contributions to various German scientific journals, as:\n\n"}
{"id": "50235816", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50235816", "title": "Estates of Navarre", "text": "Estates of Navarre\n\nThe Estates of Navarre \"(French: États de Navarre, États généraux de Navarre, Cortes de Navarre)\" were created in 1317 under Philip II. The Estates of Lower Navarre \"(French: États de Basse-Navarre, Cortes de la Basse-Navarre)\" were first called into session on 28 August 1523 by Henry II after the definitive loss of Upper Navarre,\n\nIt was created in the model of the Estates General that already existed in the Court of Pamplona, the Estates General of France, and in Béarn and other provinces. The last meeting of the Estates of Lower Navarre was on 15 June 1789.\n\nThe Estates of Lower Navarre was composed of deputies from the three Estates: the First Estate (clergy), the Second Estate (nobility) and the Third Estate (commoners), each deputy having one vote.\n\n\nThe Estates of Navarre guaranteed that high-ranking officials of the Royal Council observed the requirements. On several occasions, the Estates filed complaints regarding the appointment of Royal Council and Chancery members. One complaint referred to the appointment of royal councillors and attorneys with no command of Basque.<ref name=\"Orbea, J.M./Adot, A. (2014), p. 26\">Orbea, J.M./Adot, A. (2014), p. 26</ref>\n\nA first breach of the regulations and its related grievance referred to the \"affaire Jean de Laforcade\" in 1590, following his appointment as attorney general. He hailed from Foix, so his appointment was appealed for failing to meet the birthplace and Basque language requirements. The General Courts (Estates) urged the king to remove him from office.\n\nThe Estates guaranteed up to 1624 that the language standards remained in place. The Parliament of Navarre with a seat in Pau was then established out of a merger of the Chancery and Council of Navarre with the sovereign Council of Béarn; they ceased to exist. The new Parliament was then composed of a chief chairman, designated by the King, seven presiding deputies, two knights of honour, 46 councillors, two solicitors, and a general attorney.\n\nHowever, in the run-up to the 1624 dissolution of the Royal Council under Louis II (Louis XIII of France), a reform almost discarded the Basque language requirement citing certain edicts decreed by Henry III (Henry IV of France) which made any person of his choosing eligible for appointment to an office, \"without difference of birth or religion\", so that the preceptive Navarrese origin was never again mandatory either. The Three Estates accepted the new ruling, while at the same time demanding that Basque be mandatory for the councillors, except for one.<ref name=\"Orbea, J.M./Adot, A. (2014), p. 28\">Orbea, J.M./Adot, A. (2014), p. 28</ref>\nDespite the centralizing drive of the French crown, the Estates still kept significant legislating powers until 1748, when a decree by Louis XV of France stripped them off. The archives of the \"Estates of Navarre\" for the period 1317–1789 are held at the Archives Départementales des Pyrénées-Atlantiques.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11980239", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11980239", "title": "George R. D. Goulet", "text": "George R. D. Goulet\n\nGeorge Richard Donald Goulet is a Canadian Métis role model, author, historian, public speaker, retired lawyer, prostate cancer survivor and recipient of the Queen Elizabeth II Diamond Jubilee Medal.\n\nBorn September 27, 1933 in St. Boniface, Manitoba to George Wilfrid Goulet and Marie Alexina Laura McDougall, a granddaughter of Pierre Delorme, George was the fifth of eight children. He counts amongst his ancestors early French Canadian settlers Louis Hebert, Jean Guyon du Buisson and Zacharie Cloutier in addition to political figure Alexander MacDonell of Greenefield and John Siveright, Chief Factor of the Hudson's Bay Company. He is the father of five children including Tag Goulet, Laura de Jonge and Catherine Goulet.\n\nGeorge attended St. Paul's High School in Winnipeg. He holds a Bachelor of Arts degree from the University of Manitoba, a Bachelor of Laws degree from the University of Manitoba Law School, and a Master of Laws degree from the University of Toronto. The admissions guide for the University of Toronto lists George as one of four distinguished alumni along with Astronaut Roberta Bondar, Sociologist Daniel G Hill and Simon Cooper, former President and COO of the Ritz-Carlton Hotel Company.\n\nGeorge is the author of several historical books including \"The Trial of Louis Riel: Justice and Mercy Denied\"; \"The Metis: Memorable Events and Memorable Personalities\"; and \"Louis Hebert and Marie Rollet: Canada's Premier Pioneers\" (the last two with his wife Terry Goulet as co-author). Together they have spoken at numerous schools, universities, libraries, and public events including at the Manitoba Pavilion during the 2010 Winter Olympics in Vancouver. In the spring of 2012 they spoke at the Centre of Canadian Studies at the University of Edinburgh and at the British Association of Canadian Studies conference on Sustaining Canada at Murray Edwards College at the University of Cambridge where they gave a talk on the Aboriginal rights of the Métis in relation to the Enbridge Northern Gateway Pipelines.\n\nIn 2007 George and his wife Terry were commissioned by the Metis Nation of British Columbia to write a book about the history of the Métis people within British Columbia in honour of the BC 150 celebration. The book, \"The Metis in British Columbia: From Fur Trade Outposts to Colony\", was officially released at the Annual General Meeting of the Métis Nation of British Columbia in September 2008. Together they were the Historical Consultants to the BC Metis Federation.\n\nAlso in September 2008 George was one of the featured speakers at the commemoration of the Elzéar Goulet Memorial Park in Saint Boniface. George is a great-grand-nephew of the Métis martyr for whom the park was named.\n\nAn annual scholarship, the George and Terry Goulet Bursary in Canadian History, was established at the University of Calgary in their honor.\n\nGeorge, along with his wife Terry, is a strong supporter of the exoneration of Louis Riel and has been quoted on his support of the Private member's bill introduced by Pat Martin in the House of Commons. In May 2011 in an article appearing in the National Post, in which Martin argues that Riel was a hero and not a traitor, Martin refers to Goulet's book title in that Riel's execution was \"a case of both justice and mercy denied.\"\n\nIn October, 2012 George and his wife Terry spoke before a Standing Committee of the Senate of Canada to examine and report on the legal and political recognition of Métis identity in Canada.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "944563", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=944563", "title": "Global War on Terrorism Service Medal", "text": "Global War on Terrorism Service Medal\n\nThe Global War on Terrorism Service Medal (GWOT-SM) is a military award of the United States Armed Forces which was created through Executive Order 13289 on 12 March 2003, by President George W. Bush. The medal recognizes those military service members who have supported operations to counter terrorism in the War on Terror from 11 September 2001, to a date yet to be determined.\n\nIn September 2002, the U.S. Department of Defense sent a request to the U.S. Army Institute of Heraldry to provide a design for a Global War on Terrorism Service Medal. In January 2003, a design was completed, which was then approved and made official in March 2003.\n\nAccording to the U.S. Department of Defense, the Global War on Terrorism Service Medal will cease being awarded when , \"Declaration of National Emergency by Reason of Certain Terrorist Attacks\", delivered on 14 September 2001, is terminated by the U.S. government.\n\nThe following are the seven established operations for the Global War on Terrorism Service Medal recognized by the Department of Defense:\nThe Coast Guard awards the medal for different operations (qv).\n\nTo receive the Global War on Terrorism Service Medal, a military service member must have served on active duty during a designated anti-terrorism operation for a minimum 30 consecutive or 60 non-consecutive days. For those who were engaged in combat, killed, or wounded in the line of duty the time requirement is waived.\n\nThe initial authorized operation for the Global War on Terrorism Service Medal was the so-called \"Airport Security Operation\" which occurred between 27 September 2001 and 31 May 2002. Additional operations, for which the Global War on Terrorism Service Medal is authorized, include the active military campaigns of Operation Enduring Freedom, Operation Noble Eagle, and Operation Iraqi Freedom. Future operations are at the discretion of United States component commanders upon approval from the United States Department of Defense.\n\nIn 2004, Defense Department and military service branches began publishing directives, messages, and orders, specifying that the Global War on Terrorism Service Medal would be awarded not only for direct participation in specific operations, but also to any personnel who performed support duty of an anti-terrorism operation but did not directly participate. The phrase \"support\" was further defined as any administrative, logistics, planning, operational, technical, or readiness activity, which provides support to an operation of the Global War on Terrorism. As a result of this blanket term, the Global War on Terrorism Service Medal became an eligible award for most personnel of the United States Armed Forces who performed service after 11 September 2001 through March 2004.\n\nWith the orders granting the GWOT-SM for \"support duty\", the medal has essentially become almost the same type of award as the National Defense Service Medal and graduates of training schools, ROTC, and service academies are typically presented both awards at the same time. The primary difference between the NDSM and the GWOT-SM is that the NDSM is automatic as soon as a person joins the military whereas the GWOTSM may only be presented after thirty days of active duty in a unit (or three months in the case of the Reserve Component). The regulations for Reservists and National Guardsmen are also not as well defined for the GWOT-SM as they are for the NDSM, since the presentation of the NDSM to reservists and National Guardsmen was codified and clarified as far back as the Persian Gulf War.\n\nThe U.S. Army's regulations state that all soldiers \"on active duty, including Reserve Component Soldiers [\"sic\"] mobilized, or Army National Guard Soldiers [\"sic\"] activated on or after 11 September 2001 to a date to be determined having served 30 consecutive days or 60 nonconsecutive days are authorized the GWOTSM.\"\nThe GWOT-SM was awarded automatically to all service members on Active Duty between 11 September 2001 and 31 March 2004. While the award is no longer automatic, the termination \"date to be determined\" has not been set. The Battalion Commander is the approval authority for the GWOT-SM. Service members are still eligible for the medal provided they meet the criteria in AR 600-8-22.\n\nU.S. Army soldiers serving on active duty primarily in a training status (basic training, advanced individual training, officer training courses, etc.…) are not authorized award of the GWOT-SM for the active duty time they are in training. The criteria for the awards specifically states that a Soldier has to serve on active duty in support of a designated GWOT operation (Operation Noble Eagle [\"ONE\"], Operation Enduring Freedom [\"OEF\"], Operation Iraqi Freedom [\"OIF\"], Operation New Dawn [\"OND\"], Operation Inherent Resolve [\"OIR\"], and Operation Freedom's Sentinel [\"OFS\"]) for 30 consecutive days or 60 nonconsecutive days. Army soldiers in a training status are not considered to be supporting these designated operations.\n\nRegulations for rating the GWOT-SM are the same in both the Navy, the Marine Corps, and Military Sealift Command for those who serve on both active duty, reserve duty, and support. Essentially, 30 days of consecutive duty or 60 days of non-consecutive duty in support of approved organizations. Personnel who are still in their initial career training are not eligible. Eligibility begins when they reach their first permanent duty station. Civilian Mariners (CIVMARs) attached to Military Sealift Command's supply ships may be eligible for the Global War on Terrorism Civilian Service Medal.\n\nAir Force service members were first awarded the GWOT-SM for conducting airport security operations in the fall and winter of 2001. It was subsequently awarded for participation or support of Operations Noble Eagle, Enduring Freedom, and Iraqi Freedom. Members must be assigned, attached or mobilized to a unit participating in or serving in support of these designated operations for thirty consecutive days or sixty nonconsecutive days. Personnel who are not deployed may be eligible for service in support of the Global War on Terrorism. Examples of these duties are maintaining and loading weapons systems for combat missions, securing installations against terrorism, augmenting command posts or crisis action teams, and processing personnel for deployment.\n\nCoast Guard regulations concerning the award of the GWOT-SM, \"From 11 September 2001 to 30 January 2005\": Awarded to all Coast Guard active duty and reserve members on active duty during the eligibility period. To qualify, members must have served on active duty for a period of not less than 30 consecutive days or 60 non-consecutive days following initial accession point training. Service while assigned to training duty as a student, cadet, officer candidate, and duty under instruction (DUINS), does not count toward eligibility. This includes both training and summer cruises for the U.S. Coast Guard Academy and Officer Candidate School. For reservists, \"active duty\" includes ADT and IDT service in an operational vice classroom setting.\n\nFrom 31 January 2005 to a date to be determined: Eligible service members must be or have been assigned, attached, or mobilized to a unit participating in or serving in direct support of specified Global War on Terrorism operations (e.g., NOBLE EAGLE, LIBERTY SHIELD, NEPTUNE SHIELD, PORT SHIELD, ENDURING FREEDOM, IRAQI FREEDOM, or Area Commander-designated GWOT operations) for 30 consecutive or 60 cumulative days, or meet one of the following criteria:\n(a) Be engaged in actual combat regardless of time served in the operation; or\n(b) While participating in the operation, regardless of time, be killed, wounded, or injured requiring medical evacuation.\"\n\nThe medal is a bronze color metal disc 1.25 inches in diameter. The obverse depicts an eagle with spread wings. On the breast of the eagle is a shield of thirteen vertical bars. In the eagle's right claw is an olive branch and in the left claw are three arrows. The eagle is surmounted by a terrestrial globe with the inscription above \"WAR ON TERRORISM SERVICE MEDAL.\" On the reverse is a laurel wreath on a plain field. The medal is suspended from an Old Glory Blue ribbon 1.375 inches wide with stripes of golden yellow, scarlet and white.\n\nOnly one award of this medal may be authorized for any individual, no bronze or silver inch service stars are prescribed for second or subsequent awards.\n\nAlthough qualifying circumstances would be extremely rare, bronze inch battle stars were applicable for personnel who were engaged in actual combat against the enemy involving grave danger of death or serious bodily injury. Only a Combatant Command could initiate a request for a GWOT-SM (or Global War on Terrorism Expeditionary Medal) battle star. This request would have contained the specific unit(s) or individual(s) engaged in actual combat, the duration for which combat was sustained, and a detailed description of the actions against the enemy. The Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff was the approving authority for the specific battle stars.\n\nTo date there have been no battle stars authorized for the Global War on Terrorism Service Medal. The Military Decorations and Awards Review Results released in January 2016 resolved to \"eliminate authority for battle stars\" in regard to the GWOT-SM.\n\n\n<br>\n\n"}
{"id": "160976", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=160976", "title": "Gomel", "text": "Gomel\n\nGomel (official transliteration: Homieĺ; also Homiel, Homel or Homyel’; Belarusian: , Łacinka: \"Homiel\", , Russian: , ) is the administrative centre of Gomel Region and with 526,872 inhabitants (2015 census) the second-most populous city of Belarus.\n\nThere are at least six narratives of the origin of the city’s Belarusian name. One of the more plausible is that the name is derived from the name of the stream Homeyuk, which flowed into the river Sozh near the foot of the hill where the first settlement was founded. Names of other Belarusian cities are formed along these lines: for example, the name Minsk is derived from the river Menka, Polatsk from the river Palata, and Vitsebsk from the river Vitsba.\nIn historical sources from 1142 to the 16th century, the city is mentioned as Hom', Homye, Homiy, Homey, or Homyi. These forms are tentatively explained as derivatives of an unattested \"*gomŭ\" of uncertain meaning.\nThe modern name for the city has been in use only since the 16th–17th centuries.\n\nDuring the Soviet period, another story about the city's name was popular: raftsmen on the river Sozh supposedly warned each other about the danger of running into sandy shallows by shouting «Ho! Ho! Mel!». A more recent narrative, propagated by some modern researchers, is that the name is derived from an ancient Belarusian greeting: «Dats u homel», which means «to pat on the shoulder».\n\nGomel was founded at the end of the 1st millennium AD on the lands of the Eastern Slavic tribal union of Radimichs. It lays on the banks of the Sozh river and the Homeyuk stream. Sozh's high right bank, cut through by canyons, provided a natural fortification. For some time, Gomel was the capital of the Gomel Principality, before it became part of the Principality of Chernigov. Gomel is first mentioned in the Hypatian Codex under the year of 1142 as being territory of the princes of Chernigov. For some time, Gomel was ruled by the prince of Smolensk Rostislav Mstislavich before it was re-captured by Iziaslav III Davidovich, after whose death it belonged to Sviatoslav Olgovich and then to Sviatoslav's son Oleg. Under Oleg, Gomel went to the Principality of Novhorod-Siverskyi. The next ruler was Igor Svyatoslavich – the hero of \"The Tale of Igor's Campaign\". During this period, the town was a fortified point and the centre of a volost. In the 12th–13th centuries the city's area was not less than 40 ha, and it had developed various crafts and was connected by trading routes with the cities of Northern and Southern Rus'. Archeological data have shown that the city was badly damaged during the Mongol-Tatar assault in the first half of the 13th century.\n\nIn 1335, the Gomel region was joined to the Great Duchy of Lithuania by Algirdas. From 1335 to 1406 it was under the ownership of prince Patricia Narymuntovich and his sons, from 1406 to 1419 the city was ruled by the Great Duke's deputies, from 1419 to 1435 it belonged to prince Svitrigaila, from 1446 to 1452 to prince Vasiliy Yaroslavich, from 1452 to 1483 to Mozhaysk prince Ivan Andreyevich, and from 1483 to 1505 to his son Semyon, who transferred it to the Grand Duchy of Moscow.\n\nDuring the Second Muscovite-Lithuanian War of 1500–1503 Lithuania tried to regain Gomel and other lands transferred to Moscow, but suffered defeat and lost one-third of its territory. In 1535, Lithuanian and Polish forces under Jerzy Radziwiłł, Jan Tarnowski and Andrzej Niemirowicz re-captured the city after the surrender of Moscow's deputy, D. Shchepin-Obolensky. In the same year, the Great Duke of Lithuania Sigismund Kęstutaitis founded the Gomel Starostwo. According to the peace agreement of 1537, Gomel together with its volost remained a Lithuanian possession. In 1535–1565 Gomel is the centre of starostwo, and from 1565 onwards Gomel is in the Rechytsa Powiat of the Minsk Voivodeship.\nIn 1560, the city's first coat of arms was introduced. In 1569, Gomel became part of the Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth. From this moment on, the city became the arena of numerous attacks and battles between Cossaks, Russia and the Polish-Lithuania Commonwealth. In 1572, Gomel Starostwo was given to B. Sapega. At the beginning of the 1570s, Gomel was captured by the forces of Ivan the Terrible, but in 1576 it was re-captured by J. Radziwiłł. In 1581, Gomel was again attacked by Russian troops, and in 1595–1596 it was in the hands of Severyn Nalyvaiko's Cossaks.\n\nAfter the beginning of the struggle against Orthodox Christianity in Lithuania, Orthodox Nikolayevskiy Cathedral was closed on the order of Greek Catholic Eparch Josaphat Kuntsevych in 1621. In 1633 the city was besieged by the Cossaks of Bulgakov and Yermolin, in 1648 captured by the Golovatskiy's Cossack detachment, and in 1649 by Martyn Nebaba's detachment. After that, Gomel got through several sieges in 1651 but in 1654 was captured by Ivan Zolotarenko's detachment. He and his sons held the city until 1667 and then began to serve under Alexis of Russia, however, after the Truce of Andrusovo Gomel at last returned to the Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth, where it first belonged to M. K. Radziwiłł and then – till the annexation by the Russian Empire – to the Czartoryski family. During the Great Northern War Russian forces under Aleksandr Danilovich Menshikov stood in Gomel. In 1670, Gomel got the Magdeburg rights. Towards the middle of the 17th century, the city fell into crisis mainly due to the struggles mentioned above. It suffered significant damage, the population decreased severely, and many crafts disappeared.\n\nThe period when Gomel was part of the Russian Empire was marked by rapid growth of the population, urban infrastructure, and industrial capacity.\nGomel became part of the Russian Empire after the first partition of the Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth in 1772 and was confiscated by the imperial treasury. In 1775, Empress Catherine II gave Gomel and Gomel eldership in the eternal hereditary possession of Russian military commander Pyotr Rumyantsev.\n\nThe Peter and Paul Cathedral, designed by architect John Clark, was built in 1809–1819. Nikolay Rumyantsev opened the first high school, hotel courtyard, glass, tile, distilleries, weaving and spinning factories, and he built a church, a synagogue, a pharmacy, a hospice and a permanent wooden bridge across the Sozh river.\n\nAfter the death of Nikolay Rumyantsev, the city came in possession of his brother Sergei Petrovich Rumyantsev. However, due to lack of money, Sergei indebted Gomel with the state treasury of the Russian Empire. Subsequently, after not being able to pay off the debt, the treasury sold the city. Gomel palace was acquired by Prince Ivan Paskevich, and the rest of the city by Nicholas I (1838). Paskevich had an English garden made around the palace, which is still in place today. In 1856, the estate passed on to his son Fyodor Ivanovich Paskevich.\n\nBy 1913, Gomel was a major industrial city and counted 104.500 inhabitants.\n\nFollowing the treaty of Brest-Litovsk, in 1918 the city was liberated from Bolshevik troops by German forces. The city became part of Chernihiv Governorate of the Ukrainian State.\n\nOn 14 January 1919, Gomel was occupied by the Red Army, leading to a major revolt. Insurgents took control of strategic objects and executed members of the Soviet leadership of the city. The rebels were defeated.\n\nIn 1919, Gomel became the centre of the Gomel Governorate in the Russian Soviet Federative Socialist Republic. After the end of the hostilities, restoration of industry and transport began. In the 1920s, a number of large businesses had been created: shipyards, a factory named \"Polespechat\", a shoe factory named \"Trud\", a bakery, and the first phase of a municipal power plant. In 1926 the city was passed to the Belarusian SSR.\n\nBy 1940, 264 industrial enterprises had been established\n\nDuring World War II, Gomel was under Nazi occupation from August 19, 1941 until the November 26, 1943. The city was liberated by Rokossovsky's Belorussian Front during the Gomel-Rechitsa Offensive. Eighty percent of the city was destroyed. The population of Gomel had dropped dramatically. According to the data of the registry, the population of Gomel numbered less than 15,000 of inhabitants, compared to 144,000 inhabitants in 1940.\n\nAfter the war, restoration of Gomel began promptly. The majority of pre-revolutionary buildings were lost. City streets were considerably expanded, and buildings in Stalinist Empire style were erected. In 1950, almost all of the pre-war enterprises resumed their work.\n\nAs a result of the catastrophe at the Chernobyl nuclear power plant on 26 April 1986, Gomel suffered radioactive contamination. This significantly worsened both the ecological situation and the socio-economic crisis that had struck the USSR in the late 1980s. It caused a sharp decline in living standards and a gradual depopulation that lasted until the early 21st century.\n\nAt the beginning of the 21st century, a scientific centre and practice for radiation medicine and human ecology was built in Gomel to overcome and study the consequences of the catastrophe at Chernobyl. \n\nThe development of radiological dose values varies between individual villages in severely contaminated regions, depending on the surroundings and the economic orientation. In general, life is possible in these areas today, even in some parts of formerly closed-off zones, if appropriate behavioural rules are observed.\n\nOn 27 July 1990, the Declaration of State Sovereignty of the Belarusian Soviet Socialist Republic was drafted. Gomel became a city in the independent state of the Republic of Belarus.\n\nIn the first half of the 1990s, Gomel, like the whole of Belarus, was struck by an acute socio-economic crisis: living standards fell sharply, the death rate exceeded the birth rate, the volume of industrial production fell sharply, and the crime rate increased. From 1996 onwards the situation in the country and in Gomel began to stabilize and improve gradually.\n\nIn 2013, the city's population numbered 515,325, indicating a positive population growth and hence a reversal of the demographic crisis that began in 1993.\n\nAfter the annexation of Gomel by the Russian Empire and the creation of the Pale of Settlement, Gomel gradually became a centre of resettlement for the Jewish population of Russia. According to the 1897 census, 55% of the population of Gomel were Jews. In 1903, there was a violent pogrom against the Jewish population of the city. From that moment on, a gradual decrease of the number of Jews in the city began. 40,880 Jews lived in Gomel in 1939, when they comprised 29.4 percent of the total population. Most Jews had left the city in anticipation of German occupation, but still between 3,000-4,000 Gomel Jews fell victim to the Holocaust. The end of the 1980s and beginning of the 1990s saw mass emigration of Jews from Gomel, but at the same time restoration of Jewish institutions in the city by the remaining Jewish inhabitants.\n\nGomel is situated in the southeastern part of the country, on the right bank of the river Sozh, south-east of Minsk, east of Brest, south of Mogilev, west of Bryansk and north of Chernihiv.\n\nThe terrain on which the city as a whole is built, is flat. On the right bank of the river, it is a gradually decreasing plain water-glacial and fluvial terrace of the Sozh river. The left bank is a low-lying alluvial plain. The highest elevation of 144 meters above sea level is found at the northern outskirts of Gomel, the lowest elevation of 115 m at the water boundary Sozh river. Novobelitskiy district, which is located on the left bank of the river (i.e., towards the south), has elevations averaging of 10–15 meters lower than the northern and central parts of the city.\n\nOn the left bank of the Sozh many kilometers of beaches can be found.\n\nThe climate of Gomel is moderate and continental. Warm summers and cold winters are caused by frequent arrival of warm sea air masses from the Atlantic and the dominating western transfer.\nThe public transportation system consists of over 1,000 buses and trolleybuses. Over 210 million passenger rides were registered in 2006. Taxi services ($10 for a one-way intra-city ride) are available 24 hours a day. The city is an important railroad hub in the southeastern part of Belarus, as it is situated midway on the Minsk-Kiev rail link. The strategic location of Gomel near the border with Russia and Ukraine provides a direct connection to the vast railroad networks of those countries.\n\nA trolleybus network opened on 20 May 1962 and consists of 23 routes (not counting variations). On 15 December 2010, after constructing an overhead wire network in the streets of Egorenko, Sviridov and Chechersk, a new trolley line opened to the terminus \"Neighborhood Klinkowski\" that resulted in a change of trolleybus routes 9, 16, 17. The length of the network is about and the total length of trolleybus routes is . Rolling stock consist of types ACSM-201, ACSM-321, ACSM-213, ACSM-101, ZIU-682.\nThere are more than 60 bus routes totaling 670 kilometers, and a number of express routes. Rolling stock consists mainly of buses MAZ-105, MAZ-107, MAZ-103 and Ikarus 280, and to a lesser extent MAZ-104, MAZ-203, MAZ-206, and since 2014, the extra-large-capacity, low-MAZ-215. Express routes use Rodemich-A type buses. The 24 minibus lines use Ford Transit, GAZelle, Mercedes-Benz, and Peugeot vans.\n\nGomel Airport is located north-east of the city.\n\nTo overcome the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster and to improve the health of the population, the government has paid considerable attention to sports and sports facilities.\n\nGomel is home to a wide range of sports facilities that have been developed and improved in recent years. These facilities, including eight stadiums and the Ice Palace, which has two ice arenas, support common activities such as hockey, track and field, and football (American Soccer). The Central Stadium is the home of Gomel’s local football club, FC Gomel. Gomel hosts multiple international competitions in these facilities, the annual “Bells of Chernobyl” competition being one of the many. In addition to sports facilities, Gomel has a multitude of Olympic Reserve Schools, which is more commonly referred to as sports schools.\n\nMany of Gomel's sports schools prepare athletes from a young age. Numerous champions have been trained by schools such as these. For example, one school, Gomel’s Olympic Reserve Number 4, has trained 97 World and European champions as well as two Olympic athletes. Gomel State College of Olympic Reserve, on the other hand, trains coaches rather than athletes. From this school, 44 graduates have participated in the Olympics, European championships, and World championships. Gomel also participates in the Deaflympics and, between the years 2007-2009, has been awarded: two gold medals, one silver medal, and two bronze medals.\n\nSince 1990, P.O. Sukhoy Homiel State Technical University and Gomel State Medical University have attracted many international students from countries around the world, including the United States, Germany, China, India, Pakistan, Sri Lanka, Syria, Russia, Ukraine, Egypt, Iran and countries in Latin America. Gomel State Medical University provides classes in both English and Russian. Many prominent scientists work here as senior lecturers.\n\n\nGomel is twinned with:\n"}
{"id": "815227", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=815227", "title": "Hargrave Jennings", "text": "Hargrave Jennings\n\nHargrave Jennings (1817-1890) was a British Freemason, Rosicrucian, author on occultism and esotericism, and amateur student of comparative religion. \n\nIn several voluminous works, Jennings developed the theory that the origin of all religion is to be sought in phallic worship of the Sun and fire, which he described as \"phallism.\" \n\nIn addition to the works to which he affixed his own name, Jennings is thought by some researchers to have written a number of anonymous volumes in the privately printed \"Nature Worship and Mystical Series\" series, and possibly also to have written under the pseudonym \"Sha Rocco.\" \n\nAs Jennings made clear in several of his books, he used the word \"phallic\" in its non-gendered sense, meaning \"having to do with the sexual organs\"; thus he included worship of the female genitalia under the heading of \"phallic.\" In later editions he reluctantly acceded to popular (although incorrect) usage and called his subject \"phallicism.\"\n\nMadame Blavatsky disagreed with Jennings' thesis of phallicism being the origin of all religion. \n\nBlavatsky writes, \n\"It is quite true that the origin of every religion is based on the dual powers, male and female, of abstract Nature, but these in their turn were the radiations or emanations of the sexless, infinite, absolute Principle, the only One to be worshipped in spirit and not with rites; whose immutable laws no words of prayer or propitiation can change, and whose sunny or shadowy, beneficent or maleficent influence, grace or curse, under the form of Karma, can be determined only by the actions--not by the empty supplications--of the devotee. This was the religion, the One Faith of the whole of primitive humanity.\" She suggests her own thesis of the birth of phallicism.\n\nHowever she also praised highly his earlier book The Rosicrucians, as well as paying him due credit with such quotes as:\n\n\"How well Hargrave Jennings expresses himself when speaking of Pyramids, and how true are his words when he asks: \"Is it at all reasonable to conclude, at a period when knowledge was at the highest, and when the human powers were, in comparison with ours at the present time, prodigious, that all these indomitable, scarcely believable physical effects — that such achievements as those of the Egyptians — were devoted to a mistake? that the myriads of the Nile were fools laboring in the dark, and that all the magic of their great men was forgery, and that we, in despising that which we call their superstition and wasted power, are alone the wise? No! there is much more in these old religions than probably — in the audacity of modern denial, in the confidence of these superficial-science times, and in the derision of these days without faith — is in the least degree supposed. We do not understand the old time. . . . .\"\"\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1908125", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1908125", "title": "Henry Reynolds (historian)", "text": "Henry Reynolds (historian)\n\nHenry Reynolds (born 1 March 1938) is an eminent Australian historian whose primary work has focused on the frontier conflict between European settlers in Australia and indigenous Australians.\n\nReynolds received a state school education in Hobart, Tasmania, from 1944 to 1954. Following this, he attended the University of Tasmania, where he graduated with a Bachelor of Arts with Honours in History in 1960, later gaining a Master of Arts in 1964. He gained his PhD in History from James Cook University in 1970. He received an Honorary Doctor of Letters degree from his alma mater, the University of Tasmania, in 1998.\n\nHe then taught in secondary schools in Australia and England, later establishing the Australian History programme at Townsville University College, where he accepted a lectureship in 1965, later serving as an Associate Professor of History and Politics from 1982 until his retirement in 1998. He then took up an Australian Research Council post as a professorial fellow at the University of Tasmania in Launceston, and subsequently a post at the University's Riawunna Centre for Aboriginal Education. He currently serves as Honorary Research Professor in the University's School of Humanities.\n\nHenry Reynolds is married to Margaret Reynolds, an ALP Senator for Queensland in Federal Parliament (1983 until 1999).\n\nIn more than ten books and numerous academic articles Reynolds has demonstrated the results of his meticulous research and explained the high level of violence and conflict involved in the colonisation of Australia, and the Aboriginal resistance to numerous massacres of indigenous people. Reynolds, and other historians, estimate that up to 3,000 Europeans and at least 20,000 indigenous Australians were killed directly in the frontier violence, and many more Aborigines died indirectly through the introduction of European diseases and starvation caused by being forced from their productive tribal lands.\n\nGeoffrey Blainey and Keith Windschuttle categorise his approach as a \"black armband view\" of Australian history. Reynolds has been quoted as responding to this claim as follows - better a black armband than a white blindfold. His books are based on a vast stock of evidence, available in archives and recorded during frontier times, and have been instrumental in overturning previously held views prevalent in the late 20th Century that settlement was peaceful. He has also however shown that in earlier times - pre 1900 - white Australians were well aware of the violence against the aborigines and believed they were a 'dying race'.\n\nIn 2002, historian and journalist, Keith Windschuttle, in his book \"The Fabrication of Aboriginal History, Volume One: Van Diemen's Land 1803–1847\", disputed whether the colonial settlers of Australia committed widespread genocide against Indigenous Australians, especially focussing on the Black War in Tasmania, and denied the claims by historians such as Reynolds and Professor Lyndall Ryan that there was a campaign of guerrilla warfare against British settlement. He accused Reynolds of inventing evidence and making many claims without any documentary support at all. Subsequently, in \"Whitewash: on Keith Windschuttle's fabrication of Aboriginal history\" it was argued that Windschuttle failed to meet the criteria that he used to assess 'orthodox historians' and thus his accusations of deliberately and extensively misrepresenting, misquoting, exaggerating and fabricating evidence were flawed.\n\nReynolds struck up a friendship with Eddie Mabo, who was then a groundsman and gardener at James Cook University. In his book \"Why Weren't We Told?\", Reynolds describes the talks they had regarding Mabo's people's rights to their lands, on Murray Island, in the Torres Strait. Reynolds writes:\nEddie [...] would often talk about his village and about his own land, which he assured us would always be there when he returned because everyone knew it belonged to his family. His face shone when he talked of his village and his land.\n\nSo intense and so obvious was his attachment to his land that I began to worry about whether he had any idea at all about his legal circumstances. [...] I said something like: \"You know how you've been telling us about your land and how everyone knows it's Mabo land? Don't you realise that nobody actually owns land on Murray Island? It's all crown land.\"\n\nHe was stunned. [...] How could the whitefellas question something so obvious as his ownership of his land?\n\nReynolds looked into the issue of indigenous land ownership in international law, and encouraged Mabo to take the matter to court. \"It was there over the sandwiches and tea that the first step was taken which led to the Mabo judgement in June 1992.\" Mabo then talked to lawyers, and Reynolds \"had little to do with the case itself from that time\", although he and Mabo remained friends until the latter's death in January 1992.\n\nHenry Reynolds has received the following awards and honours:\n\nIn tribute to Reynolds' seventieth year, the conference \"Race, Nation, History: A Conference in Honour of Henry Reynolds\" was held in August 2008. It was sponsored by the Australian National University's Research School of the Humanities and the Research School of the Social Sciences, the National Library of Australia and the University of Tasmania. Selected papers from the conference were published in a volume by Australian Scholarly Publishing, but do not appear to be otherwise available.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7059209", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7059209", "title": "Historicity (philosophy)", "text": "Historicity (philosophy)\n\nHistoricity in philosophy is the idea or fact that something has a historical origin and developed through history: concepts, practices, values. This is opposed to the belief that the same thing, in particular normative institutions or correlated ideologies, are natural or essential and thus exist universally.\n\nHistoricity relates to the underlying concept of history, or the intersection of teleology (the concept and study of progress and purpose), temporality (the concept of time), and historiography (semiotics and history of history). Varying conceptualizations of historicity emphasize linear progress or the repetition or modulation of past events.\n\nIn phenomenology, historicity is the history of constitution of any intentional object, both in the sense of history as tradition and in the sense where every individual has its own history. Of course, these two senses are often very similar: One individual's history is heavily influenced by the tradition the individual is formed in, but personal history can also produce an object that wouldn't be a part of any tradition. In addition, personal historicity doesn't develop in the same way as tradition.\n\nMartin Heidegger argued in \"Being and Time\" that it is temporality that gives rise to history. All things have their place and time, and nothing past is outside of history. Ingo Farin agues that Heidegger appropriated the concept from Wilhelm Dilthey and from Paul Yorck von Wartenburg and further clarifies Heidegger's meaning: \n\nFrancis Fukuyama, in \"The End of History and the Last Man\", famously argued that the collapse of Soviet communism brought humanity to the \"end of history\" whereby the world's global dialectical machinations had been resolved with the triumph of liberal capitalism.\n\nBefore Fukuyama, Jean Baudrillard argued for a different concept of the \"end of history\". Baudrillard's most in-depth writings on the notion of historicity are found in the books \"Fatal Strategies\" and \"The Illusion of the End\". It is for these writings that he received a full-chapter denunciation from the physicist Alan Sokal (along with Jean Bricmont), due to his alleged misuse of physical concepts of linear time, space and stability. In contrast to Fukuyama's argument, Baudrillard maintained that the \"end of history\", in terms of a teleological goal, had always been an illusion brought about by modernity's will towards progress, civilisation and rational unification. And this was an illusion that to all intents and purposes vanished toward the end of the 20th century, brought about by the \"speed\" at which society moved, effectively \"destabilising\" the linear progression of history (it is these comments, specifically, that provoked Sokal's criticism). History was, so to speak, outpaced by its own spectacular realisation. As Baudrillard himself caustically put it:\n\nThis approach to history is what marks out Baudrillard's affinities with the postmodern philosophy of Jean-François Lyotard: the idea that society — and Western society in particular — has \"dropped out\" of the grand narratives of history (for example, the coming of Communism, or the triumph of civilised modern society). But Baudrillard has supplemented this argument by contending that, although this \"dropping out\" may have taken place, the global world (which in Baudrillard's writing is sharply distinct from a universal humanity) is, in accordance with its spectacular understanding of itself, condemned to \"play out\" this illusory ending in a hyper-teleological way — acting out the end of the end of the end, \"ad infinitum\". Thus Baudrillard argues that — in a manner similar to that of Giorgio Agamben's book \"Means without Ends\" — Western society is subject to the political restriction of means that are justified by ends that do not exist.\n\nMichel-Rolph Trouillot offers a different insight into the meaning and uses of historicity. Trouillot explains, \"The ways in which what happened, and what is said to have happened are and are not the same may itself be historical\".\n"}
{"id": "21449667", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21449667", "title": "Hrvoje Matković", "text": "Hrvoje Matković\n\nHrvoje Matković (October 14, 1923 – August 26, 2010) was a Croatian historian.\n\nMatković was born in Šibenik. He finished gymnasium in Šibenik, and graduated history in 1947. He obtained his Ph.D. in 1971 at the University of Zagreb.\n\nHe worked in gymnasium in Ogulin (1948), then in school in Petrinja until 1954, and finally in the Croatian History Museum and Faculty of Political Science, University of Zagreb until his retirement in 1990.\n\nFocus of Matković's research was the 20th-century history of Croatia.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "751311", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=751311", "title": "Isa-Beg Ishaković", "text": "Isa-Beg Ishaković\n\nIsa-Beg Ishaković (; 1439–70) was an Ottoman general and the governor of the Sanjak of Bosnia for most of his career. Of Bosnian noble origin, he was recruited after being held hostage by the Ottomans. He was a provincial governor during the 1450s and 1460s, first in charge of the Sanjak of Skopje, and then the Sanjak of Bosnia. He was instrumental in the Ottoman conquests in the region, and was one of the Sultan's most trusted generals.\n\nThere are two main theories about his identity:\n\nIsa-Beg Ishaković was appointed as \"sanjak-bey\" (provincial governor) of the Sanjak of Skopje in the spring of 1439, in place of his adoptive father, Ishak-Beg, who was sent to lead military actions in Serbia. He was then appointed the \"sanjak-bey\" of Bosnia, briefly in 1463, and then from 1464 to 1470.\n\nAs governor of the province of Bosnia, Isa-Beg assured its future prosperity. He founded Sarajevo in 1461 in the former Bosnian province of Vrhbosna. Between then and 1463 he built the core of the city's Old Town district, including a mosque, a closed marketplace, a public bath, a hostel, and the Governor's castle (\"Saray\"), which gave the city its present name. In much the same way and year he also founded Novi Pazar (in Serbia), rendered from , literally meaning \"new marketplace\", some eleven kilometers from the medieval settlement of Trgovište. There he built a mosque, a marketplace, a public bath, a hostel, and a compound. He is also responsible for establishing a number of other cities and towns in the region.\n\nIshaković built many important buildings part of the Old Bazaar in Skopje, like the Čifte Hammam, Kapan Han, Ishak Bey Mosque (dedicated to his father Ishak-Beg, also known as Isaklija or Aladža), the madrasa (Islamic school) and library (within Isak-Beg's Mosque, one of the first Islamic libraries in Europe), and many other buildings that belonged to his endowment (\"waqf\", ). \n\nIshaković participated in ransom slavery in 1470 when he ransomed a highly positioned Ottoman official named Mustafa by releasing the wife of Croatian nobleman Ivan Marković and paying 500 ducats to Ragusan Frančesko Micalović, the agent in this transaction.\n\nAfter Franz Babinger in the \"Encyclopedia of Islam\":\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41199823", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41199823", "title": "Ivolga archaeological site", "text": "Ivolga archaeological site\n\nThe Ivolga archaeological site (Russian Иволгинское городище \"Ivolginskoye gorodishche\") is the place of a fortified city of the Xiongnu which was founded in the 3rd century BC and destroyed in the 1st century BC. It is sited near Ulan-Ude, the capital of the Republic of Buryatia, Russia. It is part of the folklore of this city where the Xiongnu are mixed up with the Huns.\n"}
{"id": "20915508", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20915508", "title": "John Bannerman (historian)", "text": "John Bannerman (historian)\n\nJohn Walter MacDonald Bannerman (13 August 1932 – 8 October 2008) was a Scottish historian, noted for his work on Gaelic Scotland.\n\nHe was born in Balmaha, Stirlingshire, the son of John MacDonald Bannerman, later Lord Bannerman of Kildonan, and his wife Ray Mundell. His family were native speakers of Scottish Gaelic, and Bannerman studied Celtic languages at the University of Glasgow and completed his doctorate at the University of Cambridge where he was taught by Kathleen Hughes.\n\nAlthough he considered teaching Gaelic in schools, Bannerman instead took up a post at the Celtic department of the University of Aberdeen before joining the history department at the University of Edinburgh in 1967. He took over the running of the family farm at Balmaha in 1968, shortly before his father's death, dividing his time between teaching at the University, writing and farming.\n\nHis work on Gaelic Scotland was influential. His early works on Dál Riata, the Senchus fer n-Alban and the Iona chronicles which formed part of the later \"Chronicle of Ireland\" are contained in his 1974 book \"Studies in the History of Dalriada\". He was a major contributor to the record of \"Late Medieval Monumental Sculpture in the West Highland\" published in 1977 and his study of the Beaton family—\"The Beatons: Medical Kindred in the Classical Gaelic Tradition\"—appeared in 1986. In his latter years he worked on the history of the Lordship of the Isles. He retired from teaching in 1997 and took up farming full-time at Balmaha.\n\nBannerman married Chrissie Dick in 1959. They had five children.\n"}
{"id": "51064423", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51064423", "title": "Jon Jakobsen Venusinus", "text": "Jon Jakobsen Venusinus\n\nJon Jakobsen Venusinus (c. 1558 – 1608) was a Danish theologian, naturalist and historian. \nHe was born on the island of Ven as the son of the local pastor, Jakob Jonsen. \nThe father was transferred to Landskrona in 1563, where Jon Jakobsen assumed the surname \"Coronensis\", which he changed to \"Venusinus\" after the island of Ven became widely known due to the observatories built there by Tycho Brahe.\nHe visited the school at Frederiksborg, and later studied in Copenhagen and Rostock. In 1579 David Chytræus recommended him to Frederick II, who granted him an annuity to support his studies.\nVenusinus spent some years travelling in Europe, visiting Germany, Austria, Switzerland and Italy, and completed a master's degree in Wittenberg.\nReturning to Denmark, he was made parish priest in Herfølge and Sædder and dean of Bjæverskov Herred in 1584, a position in which he was succeeded by Claus Christoffersen Lyschander in 1587.\n\nVenusinus married Agathe, the daughter of professor John Sascerides in 1585, and after the death of his first wife in 1589 he married Karine Dankertsdatter, widow of canon Hans Leiel in Roskilde. It appears that both marriages remained childless, but he adopted the son of his second wife, Dankert Leiel.\n\nThe position in Herfølge was one of the most lucrative in the country, but Venusinus appears to have preferred life in the capital, and he moved to Copenhagen in 1587 where he was made pastor of the Church of the Holy Ghost. He was accused of holding Crypto-Calvinist sympathies, due to his refusal to perform baptismal exorcism, and he was suspended from office in 1588. He petitioned Christian VI to abolish baptismal exorcism; his request was not granted, but in a partial success for Venusinus, the king himself had one of his children baptized without the ceremony.\n\nAlthough Venusinus was not on good terms with the Copenhagen academy, he was appointed professor of physics (i.e. natural sciences) \"by royal command\" in 1600, under which title he undertook the construction of a botanical garden.\nHe was among the first at Copenhagen University to accept the Copernican worldview and he held lectures on magnetism. After the deafh of Niels Krag in 1602, he was also appointed Royal Historian. In 1603 he switched from the chair of physics to that of rhetoric and held lectures on Danish antiquity (\"Antiquitates rerum Danicarum\"). In 1606 he accompanied Christian IV to England on the king's visit to his brother-in-law James I of England, where his erudition attracted considerable attention.\nIn 1607, Venusinus was endowed with Soro Abbey, which allowed him to retire from all paid academic work, and he intended to focus on compiling a history of Denmark, but he died, around the age of fifty, on 30 January of the following year.\n\n"}
{"id": "7173987", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7173987", "title": "Joseph ha-Kohen", "text": "Joseph ha-Kohen\n\nJoseph ben Joshua ben Meïr ha-Kohen (also Joseph HaKohen, Joseph Hakohen or Joseph Hacohen) (20 December 1496 in Avignon, France – 1575 or shortly thereafter, Genoa, Italy) was a historian and physician of the 16th century.\n\nJoseph's family originally lived at Cuenca, Spain. When the Jews were expelled from Spain the family settled at Avignon. At the age of five Joseph left Avignon with his father and went to Genoa, where they remained until 1516. Driven from that city, they went to Novi, but returned to Genoa in 1538, where Joseph practiced medicine for twelve years. On June 3, 1550, he and all his coreligionists were driven from Genoa as a consequence of the rivalry of the non-Jewish physicians. Joseph then settled at Voltaggio, at the request of the citizens of that small town, practicing there until 1567. When the Jews were driven out of the territory of Genoa, he went to Costeletto (Montferrat), where he was very well received. In 1571 he was again established at Genoa, where he died a few years later.\n\nJoseph ha-Kohen had three sons (Joshua, Isaac, Judah) and two daughters. As for his brother Todros, he has tentatively been identified by Robert Bonfil with Ludovico Carretto, who is known to have converted from Judaism. Joseph ha-Kohen was highly regarded as a historian and physician. One of his chief concerns was also the release of the many Jewish captives taken by the vessels of the Italian republics and by the Corsairs; as in 1532, when Andrea Doria captured many Jews on taking Coron, Patras, and Zante; in 1535, when the emperor Charles V took Tunis; in 1542, when the galleys of Cegala Visconti had imprisoned a number of Jews.\n\nIn Hebrew literature Joseph ha-Kohen achieved prominence by two historical works. His major work, \"Dibre ha-Yamim le-Malke Zarfat we-'Otoman\" (Chronicles of the Kings of France and Turkey), is in the nature of a history of the world, in the form of annals, in which he represents the sequence of events as a conflict between Asia and Europe, between Islam and Christianity, the protagonist for Islam being the mighty Turkish empire, and for Christianity, France. With these two great groups he connects European history, beginning with the downfall of the Roman empire. In this he also includes narratives of persecutions of Jews during the first and second crusades, copied from eye-witness reports available to him in manuscript. The work was printed in 1554 at Venice but later put on index (Amnon Raz-Krakotzkin). It was reprinted in Amsterdam in 1733. Parts were translated into German and French; the entire work was issued in English, but badly translated, by Bialloblotzky. He continued, however, the work on it, as is evident from autographs preserved in British Library.\n\nHe undoubtedly tried to be a careful historian. He gathered his facts from all possible sources, made notes, kept registers, and conducted a wide correspondence. He added continually to the first redaction of his works, carefully dating each one. Of his second chronicle \"Emeq ha-Bakha\" (The Vale of Tears) he thus made at least four updated editions. Yet his style is monotonous, although he tries to write in a biblical style. Having lived in Italy from his childhood and become acquainted with persons prominent politically, he is a valuable source for the history of his time; concerning many events, he had examined witnesses. He also mentions a number of important facts ignored by other historians. He is less accurate in the treatment of ancient history, for which he often was obliged to consult untrustworthy sources.\n\nHis second chronicle is an extract from his world chronicle of items concerning persecutions of the Jews. To this he added material from Samuel Usque's \"Consolaçam as Tribulaçoens de Ysrael\" (1557), the chronicle of Abraham ibn Daud as well as other material that had reached him, calling it \"Emeq ha-Bakha\" (The Vale of Tears). Its set purpose in the introduction to the book was to serve as reading on the fast of 9 Av. There he dwells upon the sorrows and sufferings the Jews endured in various countries in the course of centuries. The book, which is a martyrology from beginning to end, closes with the 24th of Tammuz, 5335 AM (1575 CE). The tenor of the book makes it an out-spoken representative of \"the lachrymose conception of Jewish history\" (Salo Baron).\n\nJoseph ha-Kohen finished the first version of this work in 1558, at Voltaggio. Another version was finished in 1563, a third version ca 1565, and the fourth and final version in 1575. It circulated in Italy in manuscript and was edited for the first time by Samuel David Luzzatto and published in 1852 by Max Letteris. In 1858 M. Wiener published a German translation. A modern text-critical edition, edited by Karin Almbladh, appeared in 1981.\n\nJoseph ha-Kohen wrote also a Hebrew version, with the title \"Meqitz Nirdamim\", of Meïr Alguadez's Spanish medical work giving prescriptions for the healing of various diseases; to these prescriptions he added some of his own.\n\nLess known is his work upon the New World. In his world-chronicle there is a reference to Columbus (whom, however, he confounds with Amerigo Vespucci); the work is very meager in its information. After writing it he became acquainted with Francisco López de Gómara's \"Historia General de las Indias\" and Joan Boemus's \"Omnium Gentium Mores Leges et Ritus\". From these, in 1557, he compiled his \"Matztib Gebulot 'Ammim\" (Who Setteth the Boundaries of Nations), a history of the conquest of Mexico, to which he added a full account of the discoveries of Columbus. This work was published in 2002 by Moshe Lazar.\n\nA small work of a different kind was his \"Peles ha-Shemot\", written in 1561, containing an alphabetical list of Hebrew nouns, with scripture illustrations of their occurrence given for the purpose of fixing their gender — a matter in which (as he says) \"many writers in Hebrew erred.\" He also compiled, in 1567, a book of polite formulas to be used in addressing letters, and a large number of verses, which are found, written in his own hand, at the end of his works. A large number of letters, evidently meant to serve as models, are found in the MSS. Rabbinowicz, No. 129 (now in Budapest and edited by Abraham David in 1985). Two-thirds of these are by Joseph ha-Kohen; they give a good insight into his private life.\n\n\"andammo dove il vento ci spinse. La cacciata degli ebrei dalla Spagna\". (Genova: Marietti, 1992), 51-58\n\n"}
{"id": "50627002", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50627002", "title": "List of state visits received by King Carl XVI Gustaf of Sweden", "text": "List of state visits received by King Carl XVI Gustaf of Sweden\n\nSince acceding to the throne of Sweden in 1973, King Carl XVI Gustaf of Sweden has received a number of state and official visits. He usually hosts one or two visiting heads of state each year.\n"}
{"id": "53141004", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53141004", "title": "Marie J. Kuda", "text": "Marie J. Kuda\n\nMarie Jayne Kuda (1940–2016) was an American writer, lecturer, publisher, and historian of LGBT culture in Chicago. Her collection contained over 100,000 documents and ephemera and her research extended to LGBT culture from ancient times through the 20th century. In 1991, she was inducted into the first class of the Chicago Gay and Lesbian Hall of Fame. She was the founder of Womanpress, published the first annotated bibliography of lesbian literature, \"Women Loving Women\", and organized five Lesbian Writers' Conferences in Chicago.\n\nMarie Jayne Kuda was born in Chicago. As a child, she had osteomyelitis, an infection of the leg bone, and received a bone marrow transplant at the age of 8. During World War II, she spent time in a boarding school while her father served in the war and her mother was unable to care for her. The school arranged visits to the Art Institute of Chicago, Museum of Science and Industry, and Field Museum, which helped generate Kuda's passion for history and research. \n\nAfter her father's death, Kuda got her own apartment at 15 and later worked her way through DePaul University. She held a variety of jobs, including graphic artist, house painter, and cook, as well as in bookstores and as a bookkeeper. \n\nKuda founded Womanpress in the 1970s, which published the first annotated bibliography of lesbian literature. She organized five Lesbian Writers' Conferences in Chicago. She wrote for many lesbian and gay newspapers in Chicago as well as Commerce Clearing House, Harcourt Brace, DePaul University, Northeastern Illinois University, and the Ravenswood Hospital Mental Health Clinic. \n\nThroughout her life, Kuda created an archive of over 100,000 documents, matchbooks, buttons, and other ephemera to tell the story of LGBT culture in Chicago. In 1978, she began giving slide presentations to share the contributions that lesbians and gay men had made to mainstream culture. Although she never received a library degree, she was an outspoken member of the Gay and Lesbian Task Force of the American Library Association.\n\nKuda suffered from heart failure and died on October 1, 2016 at Alden Town Manor in Cicero, Illinois. \n"}
{"id": "3674508", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3674508", "title": "Marshall Howard Saville", "text": "Marshall Howard Saville\n\nMarshall Howard Saville (1867–1935) was an American archaeologist, born in Rockport, Massachusetts. He studied anthropology at Harvard (1889–94), engaged in field work under F. W. Putnam, and made important discoveries among the mound builders in southern Ohio. After 1903 he was professor of American archæology at Columbia University. He also became director of an important private museum in New York, the Museum of the American Indian (Heye Foundation). Saville conducted many explorations to various places such as Yucatan, Honduras, Mexico, Ecuador and Colombia.\n\nSaville was a founding member of the Explorers Club, an organization formally established in 1905 and dedicated to promoting exploration and scientific investigation in the field.\n\n"}
{"id": "31548743", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31548743", "title": "Music archaeology", "text": "Music archaeology\n\nMusic archaeology is an interdisciplinary study field that combines musicology and archaeology. As it includes music from numerous cultures, it is often seen as being a part of ethnomusicology, and indeed a study group looking into music archaeology first emerged from ethnomusicological group the ICTM, not from within archaeology.\n\n\"In its broadest sense, music archaeology is the study of the phenomenon of past musical behaviours and sounds\", as music archaeologist Adje Both connects several definitions.\nMusic archaeologists use methods of both musicology and archaeology. A theoretical and methodological basic work is still missing and one of the desiderata of the international community of researchers.\n\nThere are different goals in music archaeology: One of the most important is the exploration of excavated artefacts that are relevant for the reconstruction of ancient music, such as sound-producing devices, representations of musical scenes and textual evidence. The archaeological analysis and documentation of such artefacts, their dating and description as well as the explanation of find contexts and cultural contexts can shed light on its use and function in everyday life of the past, and can help us to rebuild them - i.e., to construct playable replicas.\nTo produce music in a broader sense may also mean the investigation of early musical notations and literary sources that are \"excavated\" in libraries or other hidden places. These results may illuminate how instruments were played or how music was sung. But ultimately what was played in ancient times must remain in the dark of the past, and much fantasy is needed by modern musicians to imagine how melodies and rhythms may have been composed. Strictly speaking, only the sound of the instruments can be revived - these are the possibilities and limits of Music Archaeology.\nIn the last few years the field has expanded considerably, with the inclusion of neurophysiological, biological, and psychological research. These approaches explore the possible beginnings of sound production by seeking the earliest prerequisites in the evolution of mankind for music making and musical 'understanding'.\nAt the other end of the continuum, newly published evidence for musical notations and theoretical writings, or new literary and iconographic sources relevant to ancient music, can add to our understanding of mostly vanished music cultures. The observation and integration of ethnographic analogies in recent or contemporary societies may also help us discover long lasting traditions in making music which are comparable to the silent past.\n\nA first attempt to join the two distinct disciplines of Musicology and Archaeology took place at the conference of the International Musicological Society at Berkeley in 1977. One of the round tables was designated \"Music and Archaeology\", to which were invited specialists to discuss the musical remains of ancient cultures - Bathia Bayer (Israel), Charles Boilès (Mexico), Ellen Hickmann (Egypt), David Liang (China), Casja Lund (Scandinavia). The main stimulus for this was the sensational discovery of an ancient Mesopotamian musical system by Anne D. Kilmer, assyriologist in Berkeley. On the basis of this she was able to advance a decipherment and transcription into Western notation of a late Bronze Age hymn in the Hurrian language, excavated from Ugarit, which contained notation based on the Mesopotamian system. With the help of musicologist Richard L. Crocker (Berkeley) and instrument maker Robert Brown, a replica of a Sumerian lyre was made, and Kilmer's version of the Hurrian hymn was recorded, accompanied by a carefully prepared commentary, as Kilmer/Crocker/Brown, Sounds from Silence, Recent Discoveries in Ancient Eastern Music (LP with information booklet, Bit Enki Publications, Berkeley, 1976). At the round table in Berkeley, Kilmer explained their method of reconstruction and demonstrated the resulting sound. This was the starting point of the ICTM Study Group on Music Archaeology, officially founded within the International Council for Traditional Music (ICTM) in Seoul/Korea in 1981, and recognized by the ICTM in New York in 1983 following its first meeting on current music-archaeological research in Cambridge/UK in 1982.\n\nThe ICTM Study Group on Music Archaeology went on to hold international conferences in Stockholm (1984), Hannover/Wolfenbüttel (1986), Saint Germain-en-Laye (1990), Liège (1992), Istanbul (1993), Jerusalem (1994/1995, together with the ICTM-Study Group for Iconography), and Limassol, Cyprus (1996). These meetings resulted in comprehensive conference reports.\n\nThe International Study Group on Music Archaeology (ISGMA) has been founded by Ellen Hickmann and Ricardo Eichmann in 1998. The Study Group emerged from the ICTM Study Group on Music Archaeology with the objective to obtain closer cooperation with archaeologists. Since then, the ISGMA has worked continuously with the German Archaeological Institute, Berlin (DAI, Deutsches Archäologisches Institut, Berlin). A new series called \"Studien zur Musikarchäologie\" was created as a sub-series of \"Orient-Archäologie\" to present the conference reports of the ISGMA, and to integrate music-archaeological monographs independent of the Study Group's meetings; it is published by the Orient Department of the DAI through the Verlag Marie Leidorf. Between 1998 and 2004, conferences of ISGMA were held every two years at Michaelstein Monastery, Music Academy of Sachsen-Anhalt (Kloster Michaelstein, Landesmusikakademie Sachsen-Anhalt), sponsored by the German Research Foundation (DFG, Deutsche Forschungsgemeinschaft).\n\nIn close cooperation with the Department for Ethnomusicology at the Ethnological Museum Berlin (Ethnologisches Museum Berlin, SMB SPK, Abteilung Musikethnologie, Medien-Technik und Berliner Phonogramm-Archiv), the 5th and 6th Symposium of the ISGMA were held in 2006 respectively in 2008 at the Ethnological Museum Berlin. In friendly cooperation with the Tianjin Conservatory of Music, the 7th Symposium of the ISGMA was held in Tianjin, China, in 2010. The 8th Symposium of the ISGMA (2012) was also held in China, in Suzhou and Beijing, and the 9th Symposium is being planned for September 2014, again held at the Ethnological Museum Berlin.\n\nMeanwhile, the ICTM Study Group on Music Archaeology continued separately, and holds its own events, although a number of researchers are involved in both groups. After a couple of years of no activities, Julia L. J. Sanchez re-established the Study Group in 2003 on the initiative of Anthony Seeger, beginning with meetings in Los Angeles, California (2003), and Wilmington, North Carolina (2006). These were followed by a joint-conference in New York (2009), the 11th of the Study Group since its foundation in 1981 (also the 12th Conference of the Research Center for Music Iconography). The 12th conference was then held in Valladolid, Spain (2011), which was the largest meeting of the ICTM Study Group so far, followed by the 13th symposium of the Study Group held in Guatemala 2013. In 2015, the 14th symposium will be held in Poland. In 2013 it was decided to establish a new series, Publications of the ICTM Study Group on Music Archaeology, published through Ekho Verlag.\n\nOn 27 May 2011 a public concert under the banner of \"Palaeophonics\", funded by the Arts and Humanities Research Council (AHRC) \"Beyond Text\" programme and the University of Edinburgh Campaign, took place at the George Square Theatre in Edinburgh. The event showcased the outcomes of collaborative research and creative practice by archaeologists, composers, filmmakers and performers from across Europe and the Americas. Whilst inspired and driven by research in music archaeology, \"Palaeophonics\" represents the emergence of a new, possibly significant, development within the field and within musicology which approaches the subject through the production and performance of new sound and music based multi-media creative works instead of through direct representation and reproduction. Said by some observers as 'experimental' and 'avant-garde', the event provoked mixed feedback from a wide public audience of around 250 people. A related publication is planned and further \"Palaeophonics\" events are thought to be taking place in the future, although none are currently programmed, whilst funding for developing the project is sourced.\n\nIn 2013, the European Music Archaeology Project (EMAP) has been funded by the EU funding programme EACEA, for the period of 5 years. The project will develop a touring exhibition on ancient music in Europe and an elaborate concert and event program.\n\nFrom within this history, the subject has proliferated, including work on:\nPrehistoric Music. This has focused on the earliest period of music archaeology.\nAncient Music. The most work in the field has been carried out on this period, which lies between prehistory and Early Music, which is often the study of western classical music from the medieval period onwards. In particular there has been substantial research carried out on Music of ancient Greece and Music of Ancient Rome. The Ancient Music wiki page carries more information and links.\n\nArchaeoacoustics is the use of methodologies from the field of acoustics, and other scientific approaches to musicology, to undertake archaeological study.\n\n\nThe ICTM Study Group on Music Archaeology has been founded in the early 1980s. In 2013, the book series Publications of the ICTM Study Group on Music Archaeology has been launched.\n\nThe International Study Group on Music Archaeology (ISGMA) has been founded in 1998. The study group is hosted at the Orient Department of the German Archaeological Institute Berlin (DAI, Deutsches Archäologisches Institut, Orient-Abteilung) and the Department for Ethnomusicology at the Ethnological Museum Berlin (Ethnologisches Museum Berlin, SMB SPK, Abteilung Musikethnologie, Medien-Technik und Berliner Phonogramm-Archiv).\n\nMOISA: The International Society for the Study of Greek and Roman Music and its Cultural Heritage is a non-profit association incorporated in Italy in 2007 for the preservation, interpretation, and valorization of ancient Greek and Roman music and musical theory, as well as its cultural heritage to the present day.\n\nThe Acoustics and Music of British Prehistory Research Network was funded by the Arts and Humanities Research Council and Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council, led by Rupert Till and Chris Scarre, as well as Professor Jian Kang of Sheffield University's Department of Architecture. It has a list of researchers working in the field, and links to many other relevant sites.\n\n"}
{"id": "4760297", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4760297", "title": "Negroponte doctrine", "text": "Negroponte doctrine\n\nOn July 26, 2002, John Negroponte, the United States Ambassador to the United Nations, stated (during a closed meeting of the UN Security Council) that the United States will oppose Security Council resolutions concerning the Israeli–Palestinian conflict that condemn Israel without also condemning terrorist groups. This became known as the Negroponte Doctrine, and has been viewed by officials in the United States as a counterweight to the frequent resolutions denouncing Israel that are passed by the UN General Assembly.\n\nWidely reported summaries of Negroponte's statement (an official transcript of these closed-session remarks does not appear to have been released) have stated that for any resolution to go forward, the United States, which has a veto in the 15-nation council, would expect it to have the following four elements:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18637355", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18637355", "title": "Operation Head Start", "text": "Operation Head Start\n\nOperation Head Start was an experimental program by the United States Air Force during the Cold War where Strategic Air Command bombers were launched from Loring Air Force Base and loitered off of the coast of western Greenland and eastern Canada. It was operational from mid-September to mid-December 1958. It would eventually lead to Operation Chrome Dome, as it was part of a series of programs which showed that a continuous airborne alert could be achieved.\n\nOperation Head Start was experimented at Loring Air Force Base, from September to December, 1958. Through the actions of the crewmembers, it helped to demonstrate that a continuous airborne alert could be maintained successfully.\nBefore each flight, a briefing would be held, alerting the crewmembers to basic world events as well as safety criteria. At least fifteen hours before takeoff, the crew would thoroughly pre-flight their aircraft. Inadvertently, this also increased efficiency in terms of maintenance and other pre-flight routines. For the next twelve hours, crewmembers would enter a period of uninterrupted rest, and use the next three hours to prepare for takeoff. During this final preparation, they would first be taken to the cafeteria, where they would be fed a meal high in protein. After their final briefing, two crewmembers would be sent to pick up specialized meals for their long flight (the meals would later be prepared in an oven during flight).\n\nEvery six hours, a bomber would then take off with live warheads and continue on a pre-determined path over Greenland and eastern Canada, a trip that would end twenty hours later. Frequently, \"Foxtrot: No message required,\" messages would be sent to the bomber from Strategic Air Command headquarters at Offutt Air Force Base, with the idea that one of them could tell them to go to war, helping keep the crews on their feet. During their flight, many of the boom operators would enter admission into the \"Million Pound Club\", which meant that they had transferred a million or more pounds of fuel on ten sorties or less. The added benefit of the training runs, is that it made refuelling more routine. The corresponding group for the bomber crews would be the \"One Gulp Club\", for those who had taken on a hundred thousand pounds of fuel without a disconnect.\n\nWhile entering the landing pattern, the tower would alert the crash trucks to travel to the runway and await landing. This was a standard procedure for all Head Start landings. After landing, the crew would be interrogated prior to being let go, so that maintenance, intelligence, and other crews could be alerted to the performance of the plane and other things that the crew might have noticed during their long flight. After being let go, they would typically go to the Physical Conditioning room for a steam bath and rub down.\n\nAfter six sorties, each bomber would receive a major individual inspection, allowing for it to be rotated out of the cycle.\n\nHead Start was directed to occur in three phases. Phase I would be a practising of the above procedures. Phase II would be a standing down of the wing, with one squadron being dispersed to Bergstrom Air Force Base in Texas. Phase III would include operating the above procedures, but using Bergstrom as a base of operations as well.\nUSAF documentary on Operation Head Start\n\n"}
{"id": "327940", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=327940", "title": "Paleoethnobotany", "text": "Paleoethnobotany\n\nPal(a)eoethnobotany or Archaeobotany is the archaeological sub-field that studies plant remains from archaeological sites. Basing on the recovery and identification of plant remains and the ecological and cultural information available for modern plants, the major research themes are the use of wild plants, the origins of agriculture and domestication, and the co-evolution of human-plant interactions.\n\nPlant macrofossils are preserved through four main modes of preservation at archaeological sites. First, plant remains, usually cereal grains, chaff, seeds and charcoal are largely reduced to elemental carbon (charred) when they are heated in a reducing atmosphere. These are referred to as 'charred' or 'carbonised' plant remains. This mode of preservation is biased towards plant remains that come into contact with fire, through cooking or fuel use, and those that are less fragile, such as cereal grains and nutshell. Second, plant remains deposited in permanently waterlogged anoxic conditions are preserved as the absence of oxygen prohibits microbial activity. This mode of preservation occurs in deep archaeological features such as wells, in urban settlements where organic refuse is rapidly deposited, and at settlements adjacent to lakes or rivers. A wide range of plant remains are usually preserved, including seeds, fruit stones, nutshells, leaves, straw and other vegetative material. Third, calcium-phosphate mineralisation of plant remains occurs usually in latrine pits and in middens, as plant remains are completely replaced by calcium-phosphate. In latrine pits, plant remains consumed by humans are the most common items, such as seeds of flavourings, fruit pips and fruit stones. Finally, plant remains are preserved by desiccation in arid environments, where the absence of water limits decomposition. Delicate vegetative plant remains are preserved, such as onion skin and artichoke bracts, alongside fruit stones, cereal chaff and seeds of wild plants.\n\nPaleoethnobotanists use a variety of methods to recover and identify plant remains. Charred plant remains are usually recovered by flotation. The matrix (the soil from a suspected archaeological feature) is slowly added to agitated water. The soil, sand, and other heavy material, known as \"heavy fraction\", sink to the bottom. Less dense organic material, such as charred seeds, grains and charcoal tend to float to the surface. The material that floats to the top, called \"light fraction\", is poured into a sieve (usually 250-500 µm). The light fraction is then dried and later examined under a low power microscope. Samples of the heavy fraction are also gathered for later analysis. Flotation can be undertaken manually with buckets, or by machine-assisted flotation where water is circulated through a series of tanks by a pump. Waterlogged plant remains are separated from the matrix by a combination of wet-sieving and/or small-scale flotation in a laboratory. Desiccated plant remains are usually recovered by dry-sieving, using a stack of different sieves to separate larger items such as cereal straw and fruit stones from smaller items such as weed seeds. \n\nIdentification of macroremains is then usually carried out under a stereomicroscope, using morphological features such as shape and surface features in the case of seeds, or microanatomy in the case of wood or charcoal. Identification literature as well as a comparative collection of modern plant materials are crucial for reliable results. Depending on the type of material, and its condition, also other methods such as thin sections or SEM are applied. Plant macroremains are quantified on the basis of a sample, using either quantitative, semi-quantitive, or presence/absence scores.\n\nPaleoethnobotanists also recover and analyze microremains (such as phytoliths and pollen), human and animal excrements (paleofeces, sometimes called coprolites), or plant impressions in ceramic sherds and clay (such as in daub).\n\nPalynology is a mature and distinct scientific discipline that studies pollen, typically in the context of reconstructing past environments.\n\nDendrochronology, the study of growth rings on trees relating to study of past environments, is another scientific discipline useful to paleoethnobotanical study.\n\nThe work done in paleoethnobotany can be divided into field work, collections management, systematic description of species, and theories into the origins of human and plant interaction. Some examples of this analysis:\n\nA paleoethnobotanist may find discrete concentrations of burned or dried remnants of seeds in an area of discolored soil (a possible hearth feature). If later analyses indicates that the remnants were of only mature wild seeds of a type of plant that grows locally, it could be inferred that the site was only visited seasonally. Such an inference could be supported by a lack of other features that would suggest that no permanent shelters were built at the site.\n\nAlternatively, a paleoethnobotanist may find that a fire pit\nfeature contains concentrated remnants of a wide variety of edible\nwild plants that mature throughout the year. An archaeologist may find\nfeatures at the site that indicate some sort of semi-permanent\ndwellings (such as post holes and middens). The middens may have\nconcentrations of animal remains, identified by a zooarchaeologist as those of wild game, with a variety of species-specific maturity levels. In that case, a more permanent settlement may be inferred, perhaps to the level of a village. Such an analysis of the archaeological features could suggest a society of hunter-gatherers who inhabited the site on a\nmore-or-less year-round basis.\n\nA paleoethnobotanist may also find concentrated remains of plants\nthat typically are only grown through active cultivation (such as cereals, legumes, and oilseeds). At the same site, an archaeologist might identify features such as stone walls surrounding enclosures arrayed in a pattern, and deep, layered middens with concentrations of domesticated animal remains such as goats or pigs. An analysis of the site, set within the context of the archaeological features and animal and plant remains, would suggest a settled agrarian community.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34269999", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34269999", "title": "Paul-Otto Bessire", "text": "Paul-Otto Bessire\n\nPaul-Otto Bessire (Moutier 21 April 1880 – 6 September 1958) was a Swiss historian.\n\nHe studied at the Ecole normale in Porrentruy and at the universities of Basel and Bern.\n\nHe taught high school in Moutier, and was then a professor at the \"Ecole cantonale\" in Porrentruy.\n\n"}
{"id": "384984", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=384984", "title": "Preemptive war", "text": "Preemptive war\n\nA preemptive war is a war that is commenced in an attempt to repel or defeat a perceived imminent offensive or invasion, or to gain a strategic advantage in an impending (allegedly unavoidable) war \"shortly before\" that attack materializes. It is a war that preemptively 'breaks the peace'.\n\nThe term 'preemptive war' is sometimes confused with the term 'preventive war'. The difference is that a preventive war is launched to destroy the potential threat of the targeted party, when an attack by that party is not imminent or known to be planned. A preemptive war is launched in anticipation of immediate aggression by another party. Most contemporary scholarship equates preventive war with aggression, and therefore argues that it is illegitimate. The waging of a preemptive war has less stigma attached than does the waging of a preventive war.\n\nThe initiation of armed conflict: that is being the first to 'break the peace' when no 'armed attack' has yet occurred, is not permitted by the UN Charter, unless authorized by the UN Security Council as an enforcement action. Some authors have claimed that when a presumed adversary first appears to be beginning confirmable preparations for a possible future attack, but has not yet actually attacked, that the attack has in fact 'already begun', however this opinion has not been upheld by the UN.\n\nAs early as 1625, Hugo Grotius characterized a state's right of self-defense to include the right to forestall an attack forcibly. In 1685, the Scottish government conducted a preemptive strike against the Clan Campbell, called the Argyll Whigs. In 1837, a certain legal precedent regarding preemptive wars was established in the \"Caroline affair\" when British forces in Canada crossed the United States border and killed several Canadian rebels and one American citizen who were preparing an offensive against the British in Canada. The United States rejected the legal ground of the Caroline case. In 1842, US Secretary of State Daniel Webster said that the necessity for forcible reaction must be \"instant, overwhelming, leaving no choice of means, and no moment for deliberation.\" That formulation is part of the Caroline test, which \"is broadly cited as enshrining the appropriate customary law standard.\"\n\nAustro-Hungarian Chief of the General Staff Franz Conrad von Hötzendorf argued for a preemptive war against Serbia in 1913. Serbia had the image of an aggressive and expansionist power and was seen as a threat to Austria-Hungary in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The assassination of Archduke Franz Ferdinand (June 1914) was used as an excuse for Austria-Hungary to attack Serbia, leading to World War I.\n\nDuring the course of the destructive and costly World War I, for the first time in history, the concept of \"the war to end war\" began to be seriously considered. As a further expression of that hope, upon the conclusion of the war, the League of Nations was formed. Its primary aim was to prevent war, as all signatories were required to agree to desist from the initiation of all wars, preemptive or otherwise. All of the victorious nations emerging out of World War I eventually signed the agreement, with the notable exception of the United States.\n\nDuring the 1920s, the League peaceably settled numerous international disputes, and was generally perceived as succeeding in its primary purpose. It was only in the 1930s that its effectiveness in preventing wars began to come into question. Such questions began to arise when it first became apparent in 1931 that it was incapable of halting aggression by Japan in Manchuria. In the Mukden Incident, Japan claimed to be fighting a 'defensive war' in Manchuria, attempting to 'preempt' supposedly aggressive Chinese intentions towards the Japanese. According to the Japanese, the Chinese had started the war by blowing up a railway line near Mukden, China. Therefore, the Chinese were the aggressors, and the Japanese were merely 'defending themselves'. A predominance of evidence has since indicated that the railway had in fact been blown up by Japanese operatives.\n\nIn 1933, the impotency of the League became more pronounced when notices were provided by Japan and Germany that they would be terminating their memberships in the League. Italy shortly followed suit and exited the League in 1937. Soon, Italy and Germany also began engaging in militaristic campaigns designed to either enlarge their borders or to expand their sphere of military control, and the League was shown to be powerless to stop them. The perceived impotency of the League was a contributing factor which eventually led to the full outbreak of World War II in 1939. The start of World War II is generally dated from the event of Germany's invasion of Poland. It is noteworthy that Germany claimed at the time that its invasion of Poland was in fact a 'defensive war,' as it had allegedly been invaded by a group of Polish saboteurs, signaling a potentially larger invasion of Germany by Poland that was soon to be under way. Thus, Germany was left with no option but to preemptively invade Poland, thereby halting the alleged Polish plans to invade Germany. It was later discovered that Germany had fabricated the evidence for the alleged Polish saboteurs as a part of the Gleiwitz incident.\n\nOnce again, during the course of the even more widespread and lethal World War II, the hope of somehow definitively ending all war (including preemptive war) was seriously discussed. That dialogue ultimately resulted in the re-establishment of the successor organization to the old League, namely the United Nations (UN). As with the League, the primary aim and hope of the new UN was the prevention of all wars (including preemptive wars). Unlike the previous League, the organization had the support of the United States.\n\nIn analyzing the many components of World War II, if one might consider as separate individual wars, the various attacks on previously neutral countries, one might consider the attacks against Iran and Norway to have been preemptive wars.\n\nIn the case of Norway, the 1940 German invasion of Norway in the 1946 Nuremberg trials the German defense argued that Germany was \"compelled to attack Norway by the need to forestall an Allied invasion and that her action was therefore preemptive.\" The German defence was referring to Plan R 4 and its predecessors. Norway was vital to Germany as a transport route for iron ore from Sweden, a supply that Britain was determined to stop. One adopted British plan was to go through Norway and occupy cities in Sweden. An Allied invasion was ordered on March 12, and the Germans intercepted radio traffic setting March 14 as deadline for the preparation. Peace in Finland interrupted the Allied plans, but Hitler became, rightly, convinced that the Allies would try again, and ordered operation Weseruebung.\n\nThe new Allied plans were Wilfred and Plan R 4. The plan was to provoke a German reaction by laying mines in Norwegian waters, and once Germany showed signs of taking action UK troops would occupy Narvik, Trondheim and Bergen and launch a raid on Stavanger to destroy Sola airfield. However, \"the mines were not laid until the morning of 8 April, by which time the German ships were advancing up the Norwegian coast.\" However The International Military Tribunal at Nuremberg determined that no Allied invasion was imminent, and therefore rejected the German argument that Germany was entitled to attack Norway.\n\nIn the case of Iran, in which Soviet and British forces preemptively invaded this country, see Anglo-Soviet invasion of Iran.\n\nIsrael incorporates preemptive war in its strategic doctrine because of its lack of strategic depth. The Six-Day War, which began when Israel launched a successful attack on Egypt on June 5, 1967, has been widely described as a preemptive war and is, according to the United States State Department, \"perhaps the most cited example [of preemption]\". Others have alternatively referred to it as a preventive war. Some have referred to the war as an act of \"interceptive self-defense.\" According to that view, no single Egyptian step may have qualified as an armed attack, but Egypt’s collective actions made clear that she was bent on armed attack against Israel. One academic has claimed that Israel's attack was not permissible under the Caroline test, as that there was no overwhelming threat to Israel's survival.\n\nThe doctrine of preemption gained renewed reputation following the U.S. invasion of Iraq. Bush administration mainly claimed for the necessity to intervene to prevent Saddam Hussein from deploying weapons of mass destruction (WMD) prior to launching an armed attack. At that time, U.S. decision-makers claimed Saddam's WMD might be given to terrorists groups and claimed that security of the nation was at a great risk. Soon the Congress passed its joint resolution in October 2002 authorizing the president to use military force against Saddam Hussein's regime. However, it was later confirmed that no nuclear weapons or biological weapons capability existed and that Bush administration's suspicion was mistaken. Some questioned the true intention of Bush administration for invading Iraq, based on possibility of retaliation on the terrorist attacks which occurred on September 11, 2001. It is still unclear whether the U.S. invasion of Iraq is legally justifiable and, at the same time, whether Iraq’s resistance to the attack is justifiable.\n\nThe scholar Abraham D. Sofaer identified four key elements for justification of preemption:\n\nProfessor Mark R. Amstutz (citing Michael Walzer) adopted a similar but slightly varied set of criteria and noted three factors when evaluating the justification of a preemptive strike.\n\nThe proliferation of WMDs by rogue nations gave rise to a certain argument by scholars concerning preemption. They argued that the threat need not be \"imminent\" in the classic sense and that the illicit acquisition of these weapons, with their capacity to unleash massive destruction, by rogue states, created the requisite threat to peace and stability as to have justified the use of preemptive force. NATO's Deputy Assistant Secretary General for WMD, Guy Roberts cited the 1962 Cuban Missile Crisis, the 1998 US attack on a Sudanese pharmaceutical plant, (identified by US intelligence to have been a chemical weapons facility) and the 1981 Israeli attack on Iraq's nuclear facility at Osirak as examples of the counter-proliferation self-help paradigm. Regarding the Osirak attack, Roberts noted that at the time, few legal scholars argued in support of the Israeli attack but notes further that, \"subsequent events demonstrated the perspicacity of the Israelis, and some scholars have re-visited that attack arguing that it was justified under anticipatory self-defense.\" Following the U.S. invasion of Iraq in 2003, American forces captured a number of documents detailing conversations that Sadaam Hussein had with his inner sanctum. The archive of documents and recorded meetings confirm that Hussein was indeed aiming to strike at Israel. In a 1982 conversation Hussein stated that, \"Once Iraq walks out victorious, there will not be any Israel.\" Of Israel's anti-Iraqi endeavors he noted, \"Technically, they [the Israelis] are right in all of their attempts to harm Iraq.\"\n\nSince the departure of the Bush administration, the Obama administration has made no such claims to retain the right to declare a preemptive war, but has adopted and continued many policies of the Bush Doctrine.\n\nThe intention with a preemptive strike is to gain the advantage of \"initiative\" and to harm the enemy at a moment of minimal protection, for instance, while vulnerable during transport or mobilization; however the concept of preemptive war can be used to start a war by claiming that the nation would soon be under attack and therefore had to defend itself. The concept is controversial because it can be used as a justification to start a war on questionable grounds.\n\nWhile the labeling of an attack (on strategic and tactical levels) seldom is controversial, it is much more so in regard to the initiation of a war.\n\nIn his work titled \"Rationalist Explanations for War\", James Fearon attributes the use of preemptive strikes by rational states to both offensive advantages and commitment problems between states. When a nation possesses a first strike advantage and believes itself to have a high probability of winning a war, then there is a narrower de facto bargaining range between them and an opposing country for peaceful settlements. In extreme cases, if the probability of winning minus the probable costs of war is high enough, then no self-enforcing peaceful outcome exists. In his discussion of preventative war arising from a commitment problem, Fearon builds an infinite-horizon model expected payoffs from period t on are (pt/(l - δ)) - Ca for state A and ((1 -pt)/(l - δ)) - Cb for\nstate B, where Ca and Cb are costs incurred the respective states and δ is the state discount of the future period payoffs. This model shows that a peaceful settlement can be reached at any period that both states prefer, but strategic issues arise when there is no credible third-party guaranteer of the both states committing to a peaceful foreign policy. If there is going to be a shift in the military power between states in the future and no credible restraint is placed on the rising military power not to exploit its future advantage, then it is rational for the state with declining military power to use a preventative attack while it has a higher chance of winning the war. Fearon points out that the declining state attacks not due to fear of a future attack, but because the peace settlement in the future would be worse for it than in the current period. The lack of trust that leads to a declining power's preemptive strike does not stem from uncertainty about intentions of different nations, but rather \"the situation, the structure of preferences and opportunities, that gives one party incentive to renege\" on its peaceful cooperation and exploit its increased military potential in the future to win a more profitable peace settlement for itself. Thus, Fearon shows that preemptive military action is taken by nations when there is an unfavorable shift in military potential in the future which leads to a shrinking bargain range for a peaceful settlement in the current period, but with no credible commitment by the other party to not exploit their improved military potential in the future.\n\nArticle 2, Section 4 of the U.N. Charter is generally considered to be \"jus cogens\" (literally: \"compelling law\", in practice: \"higher international law\"), and prohibits all UN members from exercising \"the \"threat\" or \"use\" of force against the territorial integrity or political independence of any state\". But in the modern framework of the UN Charter, it is the phrase \"armed attack occurs\" in Article 51 that draws the line between legitimate and illegitimate military force. Some scholars believe it is reasonable to assume that if no armed attack has yet occurred that no automatic justification for preemptive 'self-defense' has yet been made 'legal' under the UN Charter. In order to be justified as an act of self-defense, two conditions must be fulfilled which are widely regarded as necessary for its justification. The first of these is that actor must have believed that the threat is real, as opposed to (merely) perceived. The second condition is that the force used in self-defense must be proportional to the harm which the actor is threatened. When it comes to a situation where an armed attack is considered as a self-defense, it usually narrows realistic options for avoidance by nonviolent means such as negotiation, retreat, or calling upon higher authorities (such as the police or the UN).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36511882", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36511882", "title": "Prečani (Serbs)", "text": "Prečani (Serbs)\n\nPrečani () was a Serbian blanket term used at the end of the 19th- and early 20th century for ethnic Serb communities located \"\" (\"across\") the Danube, Sava and Drina rivers, beyond the northern and western borders of 19th-century Serbia, that is, in Austria-Hungary-held Vojvodina, Bosnia and Herzegovina and Croatia. It was thus used to distinguish Serbs of Serbia (\"Serbians\") from those in the historical Habsburg Monarchy; it was not applied to the Serbs of Montenegro or those in the Sanjak of Novi Pazar and elsewhere in the Ottoman Empire.\n\nIn the Habsburg lands – in Kingdom of Dalmatia, the Serbs established the Serb People's Party, while in the Kingdom of Croatia-Slavonia they established the Serb Independent Party. In 1918 the Prečani Serbs formed a notable political constituency that participated in the founding of the State of Slovenes, Croats and Serbs as well as the joining of Banat, Bačka and Baranja with the Kingdom of Serbia. In the first Yugoslavia, their political party, the Independent Democratic Party was important in national politics. After the invasion of Yugoslavia, they were the main target of the World War II persecution of Serbs.\n\nThe term was primarily used in the Kingdom of Serbia and was not used by the Austro-Hungarian Serbs themselves. Today, the Prečani constitute the Serbs of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Serbs of Croatia and Serbs in Vojvodina.\n\n"}
{"id": "58073247", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58073247", "title": "Rampran Gupta", "text": "Rampran Gupta\n\nRampran Gupta (1869 — 13 September 1927) was a Bengali Islamic historian and author.\nGupta was born in 1869 in Kedarpur village, Tangail district in the British India. He studied at Dinajpur Zila School and Ripon Collegiate School in Kolkata. He wrote article in \"Sukatha\" Magazine of Cooch Behar in student life. He worked in Dinajpur District Collectorate as an accountant and clerk. Gupta became the Honorary magistrate of Tangail sub-division in 1903. He was an active member of Bangiya Sahitya Parishad and Brahmo Samaj, presided in Dhaka Bangiya Sahitya Sammelan in 1918. He wrote number of articles on Islamic history and ancient India. His works were published in \"Sahitya\", \"Bharati\", \"Prabasi\", \"Arati\" and \"Nabanur\" Magazines.\n"}
{"id": "2196573", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2196573", "title": "Robert Bauval", "text": "Robert Bauval\n\nRobert Bauval (born in Alexandria, Egypt) is a Belgian author, lecturer, and pseudoscience popularizer, perhaps best known for his fringe Orion Correlation Theory regarding the Giza pyramid complex.\n\nBauval was born in Alexandria, Egypt, to parents of Belgian and Maltese origins. He attended the British Boys' School in Alexandria (now El Nasr Boys' School) and the Franciscan College in Buckinghamshire, England. He left Egypt in 1967 just before the Six-Day War, during the presidency of Gamal Abdel Nasser. He has spent most of his engineering career living and working in the Middle East and Africa as a construction engineer.\n\nIn late 1992, Bauval had been trying to obtain a translation of \"Hermetica\" by Walter Scott. He then came across a new edition printed by Solo Press with a foreword by Adrian Gilbert. Bauval contacted Gilbert after being interested in his foreword concerning a link between an Alexandrine school of Hermes Trismegistus and the pyramid builders of the Fourth dynasty of Egypt. They went on to write \"The Orion Mystery\" together, which became an international bestseller. BBC Two broadcast a documentary on Bauval's ideas around the time of the book's publication. He has co-authored three books with Graham Hancock,including 2004's \"Talisman: Sacred Cities, Secret Faith\" in which the two put forward what sociologist of religion David V. Barrettin a review in \"The Independent\" described \"Talisman\" as a factually incorrect and unconvincing \"mess of a book\" based upon indiscriminate use of source material culminating by \"promulgating a version of the old Jewish-Masonic plot so beloved by ultra-right-wing conspiracy theorists.\n\nBauval is specifically known for the Orion Correlation Theory (OCT), which proposes a relationship between the fourth dynasty Egyptian pyramids of the Giza Plateau and the alignment of certain stars in the constellation of Orion. However, 20 years before Bauval's book \"The Orion Mystery\" suggested that the Giza Pyramids were aligned to Orion's belt, Dr. James J. Hurtak pointed out such a correlation in 1973.\n\nOne night in 1983, while working in Saudi Arabia, he took his family and a friend's family up into the sand dunes of the Arabian desert for a camping expedition. His friend pointed out the constellation of Orion, and mentioned that Alnitak, the most easterly of the stars making up Orion's belt, was offset slightly from the others. Bauval then made a connection between the layout of the three main stars in Orion's belt and the layout of the three main pyramids in the Giza necropolis.\n\nThe Orion Correlation Theory has been described as a form of pseudoscience. Among the idea's critics have been two astronomers: Ed Krupp of Griffith Observatory in Los Angeles, and Anthony Fairall, astronomy professor at the University of Cape Town, South Africa. Krupp and Fairall independently investigated the angle between the alignment of Orion's Belt to North during the era cited by Bauval (which differs from the angle in the 3rd millennium BCE, because of the precession of the equinoxes), and found that the angle was somewhat different from the 'perfect match' claimed by Bauval and Hancock: 47 to 50 degrees, compared to the 38-degree angle formed by the pyramids.\n\nKrupp also pointed out that the slightly-bent line formed by the three pyramids was deviated towards the North, whereas the slight \"kink\" in the line of Orion's Belt was deformed to the South, meaning that a direct correlation would require one or the other to be inverted. Indeed, this is what was done in the original book by Bauval and Gilbert (\"The Orion Mystery\"), which compared images of the pyramids and Orion without revealing that the pyramids' map had been inverted. Krupp and Fairall find other problems with the claims, including the point that if the Sphinx is meant to represent the constellation of Leo, then it should be on the opposite side of the Nile (the 'Milky Way') from the pyramids ('Orion'), that the vernal equinox around 10,500 BCE was in Virgo and not Leo, and that the constellations of the Zodiac originate from Mesopotamia and were unknown in Egypt at the time.\n\nOn 4 November 1999, the BBC broadcast a documentary entitled \"Atlantis Reborn\" which tested the ideas of Robert Bauval and his colleague, Graham Hancock. Bauval and Hancock afterwards complained to the BSC (Broadcasting Standards Commission) that they had been treated unfairly. A hearing followed and in November 2000 the BSC ruled in favour of the documentary makers on all but one of the ten principal complaints brought by Hancock and Bauval.\n\nThe BSC concluded that Hancock and Bauval had been treated unfairly in respect of an omission of their rebuttal of a specific argument against the Orion Correlation Theory. In regard of the nine remaining principal complaints, the BSC ruled against Hancock and Bauval, concluding that they had not been treated unfairly in the criticism of their theories concerning carbon-dating, the Great Sphinx of Egypt, Cambodia's Angkor temples, Japan's Yonaguni formation and the mythical land of Atlantis.\n\nThe BBC offered to broadcast a revised version of the documentary, which was welcomed by Hancock and Bauval. It was broadcast as \"Atlantis Reborn Again\" on 14 December 2000. The revised documentary continued to present serious doubts about Bauval and Hancock's ideas, as held by astronomer Anthony Fairall, Ed Krupp of the Griffith Observatory, Egyptologist Kate Spence of Cambridge University and Eleanor Mannikka of the University of Michigan.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3064988", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3064988", "title": "Robert of Auxerre", "text": "Robert of Auxerre\n\nRobert of Auxerre (c. 1156-1212), French chronicler, was an inmate of the monastery of St Marien at Auxerre.\n\nAt the request of Milo de Trainel (1155–1202), abbot of this house, he wrote a \"Chronicon\", or universal history, which covers the period between the creation of the world and 1211. For the years previous to 1181 this is merely a compilation from Prosper of Aquitaine, Sigebert of Gembloux and others, but it is an original authority for the period from 1181 to 1211.\n\nIt is one of the most valuable sources for the history of France during the reign of Philip Augustus, and it also contains information about other European countries, the Crusades and affairs in the East. Auguste Molinier, in fact, describes the author as one of the best historians of the Middle Ages. Robert was evidently a man of great diligence and of sound judgment. Two continuators took the work down to 1228 and it was extensively used by later chroniclers. Vincent of Beauvais made extensive use of it in his \"Speculum Historiale\". The original manuscript of the \"Chronicon\" is now at Auxerre.\n\nThe \"Chronicon\" was first published by Nicolas Camuzat (1575–1655) at Troyes in 1608; the best edition is in Band xxvi of the \"Monumenta Germaniae historica\" \"Scriptores\", with introduction by Oswald Holder-Egger.\n\nRobert has been identified, but on very questionable grounds, with a certain Robert Abolant, an official of the monastery of St Marien, who died in 1214.\n\n"}
{"id": "14553549", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14553549", "title": "Ronald Cavaye", "text": "Ronald Cavaye\n\nRonald Cavaye is a British pianist, born in England and a resident of the United Kingdom. He is a classical pianist and writer.\n\nRonald Cavaye was born in Aldershot, Hampshire, UK. He began to play the piano at the age of 11 and entered the music department of Winchester School of Art at the age of 16. He studied there for 2 years with the Canadian-born pianist, Carlina Carr. In 1969 he began studying at the Royal College of Music in London where his teachers were Malcolm Binns and Oliver Davies. In 1973 he gained a DAAD scholarship to study at the Staatliche Hochschule für Musik und Theater Hannover where his teacher was Hans Leygraf. A further scholarship from the British Council enabled him to continue his studies at the Franz Liszt Academy of Music in Budapest where he studied with Pál Kadosa and György Kurtág. Marrying the Hungarian pianist, Valeria Szervánszky, Cavaye then went to teach in Japan where he was appointed professor of piano at Musashino Academy of Music in 1979.\nNow living in London, Ronald Cavaye returns regularly to Japan for concerts, teaching and to work as a translator/narrator for the kabuki and bunraku theatres.\n\nRonald Cavaye specialised mainly in music of the 20th century but now concentrates on the piano duo repertoire, principally with Valeria Szervánszky. Szervánszky and Cavaye have performed in Europe and the Far East, China and the USA. They have recorded the Mozart Concertos for 2 and 3 pianos, Stravinsky's arrangement of \"The Rite of Spring\" for piano duet as well as works by Ravel and Debussy. They also made the first complete CD recording of the first four volumes (solos, duets and two pianos) of György Kurtág's \"Játékok\" – \"Games\". In 1996 Ronald Cavaye also gave the Japanese première Kurtág's \"…quasi una fantasia…\" Op.27 No.1 with the New Japan Philharmonic Orchestra, conducted by Michiyoshi Inoue. \nRonald Cavaye is a Steinway Artist.\n\nRonald Cavaye has taught master-classes at the International Bartók Festival in Hungary, the Central Conservatory in Beijing, the Royal College of Music, London, the Royal Academy of Music, London, Trinity College of Music, London and the Musikhochschule in Graz. He also regularly serves on the jury of international piano competitions such as the World Piano Competition in Cincinnati, USA, the Concours International de Piano XXeme. siecle in Orléans, France,the Sakai International Piano Competition in Japan and the International Piano Duo Competition in Tokyo. \n\nRonald Cavaye is the author of \"Music Education of the Japanese\" (in Japanese): Shinchosha, Japan and has written articles for the Edinburgh Festival, the Paris Autumn Festival and \"The Times\" newspaper, London. \n\nAn expert on the kabuki theatre of Japan, since 1982 he has been a translator/narrator for the Earphone Guide in use at Tokyo's Kabuki-za and National Theatres.\n\nDVD translations and narrations include – \n\nThe Times Newspapers, London;\n\nHawai'i University Press;\n\nKodansha International, Tokyo, Japan;\n\nShinchosha Publishers, Tokyo, Japan;\n\nK.K. Earphone Guide Co. Ltd. Tokyo, Japan – Earphone Guide – The English language Earphone Guide\n\nShochiku Co. Ltd., Tokyo, Japan – Kabuki Web – Shochiku Official Kabuki Website in English\n\nSteinway Pianos, London\n"}
{"id": "23207375", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23207375", "title": "Santa María Atzompa", "text": "Santa María Atzompa\n\nSanta María Atzompa is a town and municipality located in the Mexican state of Oaxaca, about five km from the state capital of Oaxaca.\nIt is part of the Centro District in the Valles Centrales region. The town was founded between the 7th and 9th centuries as a satellite of the ancient Zapotec city of Monte Albán. Since its founding, pottery making has been a major economic activity and the town is currently known for its green-glazed pottery. This pottery used to be shipped all over Mexico and exported to the United States but today most of this pottery is sold locally. Beginning in 2009, there has been excavation at the Atzompa archeological site, leading to the discovery of a 45-meter Mesoamerican ball court, which has been determined to have been on the principal one for Monte Alban. Today, the town is rustic with the smoke of wood-fired pottery kilns ever present. Poverty has been a concern for the town, but innovations such as the use of lead-free glazing and a communal crafts market have been implemented to improve the craft's prospects.\n\nThe town was founded between 650 and 850 C.E. as a satellite city to Monte Alban, along with other nearby communities such as Cerro del Gallo, El Plumaje, Monte Alban Chico and El Mogollito. These communities were created as a result of the expansion of the large Zapotec city, but were considered to be separate units, rather than neighborhoods of the city proper. The Atzompa community was established on a hill for strategic reasons, overlooking the fertile Valley of Etla below, partly as a bulwark against the neighboring Mixtec. There is also evidence that the town served as the last way station for quarried stone making its way to the construction of the last buildings in the city of Monte Alban. Objects found at the site include local barro negro pottery as well as obsidian and other objects showing trade connections with areas such as Teotihuacan, Sierra de las Navajas in Hidalgo and Guatemala.\n\nAtzompa has been a major producer of pottery since the Monte Alban period. Most of it at that time was the gray pottery typical of the surrounding area although there is a greater diversity of shapes, including jaguar heads and eagle claws. After the Spanish conquest, Santa Maria was added to its native name of Atzompa (\"high water mark\" in Nahuatl), and lead glazing techniques were introduced in the 16th century.\nIn the mid 20th century, Atzompa was the main producer of ceramics for the region, and its products were shipped to all parts of Mexico and exported to the United States. However, concerns about the lead content in the glaze pummeled the Mexican pottery market. Today, most of the community's distinctive green-glazed pottery is sold in neighboring Oaxaca city, with most families here making a subsistence living through that and by growing corn.\n\nRecently, several innovations have been devised to try to help revive the pottery market. In the 1990s, the Mexican government developed lead-free glazes to be mass marketed. In the 2000s, a cooperative pottery market was created in the town, and the efforts of potter Dolores Porra, who created new designs and colors, has been recognized.\n\nUntil the end of the 20th century, only men were permitted to be on the municipal council. The first women were elected to serve in 1999.\n\nThe center of the town of Santa Maria Atzompa has a rustic church with two towers, a main plaza with kiosk, one school, and a half built municipal palace in this center. A new crafts market was built here to promote the town's wares. The humble houses are made of adobe and boards and the sidewalks are not paved. All around town, one can see black smoke rising from the pottery kilns firing jars, pots, comals, plates and other dishes. Most of these are sold in the markets of Oaxaca city, but it is also widely available in the streets of the town in makeshift stalls. Foods that can be found in markets here include various moles, barbacoa, tamales, nopal soup, with beef and chicken being the most common meats.\n\nDespite being close to the city of Oaxaca, Atzompa is a very poor community which subsists mostly on the production of its signature green pottery. In very poor neighborhoods such as Colonia Forestal, schools are shacks made from cardboard, wood and boards with dirt floors. Sinks, windows and bathrooms are often missing. These buildings can be very hot or very cold depending on the year and often leak when it rains. In the Colonial Forestal kindergarten, 85 children receive their education in a construction of this type. It was founded in the 1990s, by the Instituto Estatal de Educacion Publica de Oaxaca. The land on which it sits is only loaned to the school.\n\nThe town is attracting an increasing number of Mexican and international tourists because of its pottery, which is helping the town's economy. The new crafts market has done much to attract these tourists. The market is not only a central location for the sale of the pottery, it is also set up to allow communal selling of the products and allow the artisans to spend less time selling and more time making pottery. The pieces are labeled as to the artisan and the artisans rotate shifts at the market.\n\nIt is a very traditional town which, Sundays are still a day of rest when no pottery is worked on. There are also a large number of celebrations here, the roots of which go back centuries. Weddings are celebrated in the houses of both the bride and the groom, generally taking place on Sunday. On Sunday morning, the groom's parents, accompanied by family, arrive early in the morning to the bride's house with a musical band, flowers and an incense burner. They will accompany the bride to the church. The bride's dress is usually paid for by the groom's family, but if not, the groom's family will sponsor the lunch. The wedding proper takes place after this lunch. After the wedding ceremony, the bride returns home to receive the blessing of her parents, which is celebrated by fireworks. Another meal is served for family and guests. After this, the groom's family brings three or four live turkeys to the bride's house as a symbolic bride price, accompanied by a band. Sometimes this traditional offering is replaced by dishes, clothes, other animals or other gifts. After this, the wedding is further celebrated with drinks and wedding cake. At weddings and other festivals, there is a person designated as the \"Chigule.\" This person is an older, respected member of the community, who acts as a master of ceremonies, asking guests to enjoy the food and beverages prepared for the occasion.\n\nGuelaguetza is celebrated each year in July, with food drink and dance. Las Posadas are celebrated in December with a local style of atole called \"champurrado.\" Carnaval is a two-day celebration here, celebrated at the house of a \"mayordomo,\" who is chosen each year. The mayordomo is in charge of an image called the \"Señor del Coro\" which is a crucifix to which has been attributed miracles. On the second night, a new mayordomo is chosen for the coming year and when the process is concluded, fireworks are set off to allow the village to know. Then a procession to the new house takes place, bringing food, mezcal and a live turkey.\n\nThe feast of Our Lady of the Assumption is celebrated in August, beginning with a novena. Processions are held where youths carry litters adorned with crepe paper, bougainvillea flowers and other things. There are also \"fireworks castles\" (structures laden with small rockets which move parts), music and a large supper, usually based on beans and rice. On the 15th of August, there is a special Mass, and another communal meal served by the young people of the town. Municipal authorities are present and the evening concludes with a dance and amusement rides. \nHoly Week celebrations here are a mixture of Christian and pagan elements. Holy Tuesday is celebrated at home with family and friends. The traditional drink for this day is called \"tejate\" and is prepared by a designated man and either his mother or his wife. The traditional meal s fish with white beans, with a sweet called \"maja blanca\" made from ground rice, milk, cinnamon and sugar for dessert. On Holy Thursday, a staging of the Last Supper takes place, which is usually done by the town elders. On Good Friday, streets are cleaned and prepared for Easter Sunday, when the day is celebrated with food, drink and dance on the street. This celebration lasts into Monday.\n\nDay of the Dead celebrations begin on midnight 31 October, when those with deceased loved ones gather in the cemetery to light the tombs with candles and decorate them with Mexican marigolds and other flowers. These people are greeted on the morning of 31 October by municipal authorities who bring a musical band and offer tea and coffee. Religious brotherhoods also arrive with banners and standards. On November 1, the dead continue to be honored in the home, with a traditional meal of mole, tamales and beans. On 2 November, is called the \"day of godchildren, \"co-parents\" (compadres), friends and family\" as the dead are often referred to. On this day are eaten bread, hot chocolate and fruit, with the aim of saying goodbye to the deceased who have been visiting. Late in the day, another meal with mezcal or beer may be served.\n\nThe Fiesta del Nacimiento (Feast of the Birth) occurs at the house of the mayordomo of a Christ child image. This mayordomo serves for a year and there is a minimum of a five-year wait to be the mayordomo. A daughter of the mayordomo is chosen to sing a lullaby to the image. The event extends from the 24th to the 26th of December. On the 24th, a large number of children gather at the house of the mayordomo to participate in the lullaby. The mayordomo's daughter leads this event and is called the \"madrina del Niño Dios\" (godmother of the Christ Child). After the lullaby, a meal is served to all the participants, which is usually fish with white beans, hot chocolate and bread. After this, there is a procession in the streets with a musical band towards the church where Mass is held. The 25th and 26th are mostly celebrated at home, with food and drink.\n\nAbout 90% of the people in the town proper are dedicated to making pottery, making it the basis of the town's economy. Most of this pottery is created for kitchen use such as for cooking, baking and serving. The clay is mined from an area called San Lorenzo Cacautepec, four km from the town center. It is still carried by burro along paths used by the town's grandfathers. After the clay arrives at the workshop, the men break and work to make the clay uniform, mixing it and adding water. All members of the family, including the children work. The potter's wheels are operated by foot, and date back to the pre-Hispanic era. After a piece is molded, it is set aside for eight days before firing. The color and shine is due to the glazing process, which was introduced in the 16th century by cleric Alonso Figueroa and has remained mostly unchanged since then. The first firing with without the glaze, with the pieces emerging in their natural color and can be used in this form. However, very few pieces of this type will sell and sell at a low price. While the glaze is not inexpensive, it has become necessary to make the pottery acceptable to the market. The second firing to harden and adhere the glaze.\n\nThe green color and shine of the pottery is a result of a lead monoxide glaze, which can leach into the foods that the pottery holds. The local people here have been warned of the dangers of the continuous use of the lead pottery but the warnings are unheeded. Studies have shown that people in potters' communities such as Atompa, where lead glaze is used have unusually high levels of the substance in their blood. The exposure comes not only from the making of the pottery, but the use of it to simmer sauces and stews. With time and repeated use, the lead leaches from the glaze into the food. In the 1990s, the Mexican government devised a glaze for pottery which is lead free as a response to lead poisoning problems in the country. A 1995 study showed that 44% of children under five years of age in working-class families had high levels of lead in their bloodstreams. Much of the push towards lead-free pottery has been due to economics rather than health when the U.S. restricted imports of Mexican pottery due to lead concerns. Making pottery is a matter of culture and survival for Atzompa and many other poor communities in Mexico.\n\nWhile almost all of Atzompa's pottery is of the traditional green-glazed variety, since the 1980s, a potter by the name of Dolores Porras has created the first glazed natural color and multicolored glazed pottery. Porras developed a white translucent glaze on which to paint colors such as bright oranges, blues, greens and yellows. Each of her pieces are done by hand and are decorated with figures such as borders, mermaids, flowers and iguanas. She has been invited to give workshops in the United States, where she learned about lead-free glazes and has applied these to her work. She has not been able to work for the last years due to Parkinson's disease and diminished sight. She remains poor and dependent on her family for support. In 2010, a ceremony to honor her innovative work was organized by the Arden Rothstein of the Friends of Oaxacan Folk Art Association.\n\nSince 2009, archeological work has been taking place in an area just south of the town center. A number of significant constructions have been excavated including structures called the Casa de Oriental (East House) and Casa de Altares (House of the Altars) and the Central Shrine of Atzompa which is larger than its counterpart in Monte Alban proper. Next to these is a complex of domestic units, sunken patios and a pyramidal platform.\n\nHowever, the main find has been a 45-meter-long Mesoamerican ball court with two smaller courts next to it. These courts are surrounded pyramidal structures. The 45-meter court is the largest ever found in the Monte Alban area and investigations indicate that this was the principal ball court for the city, rather than any of the ball courts that are in the Monte Alban site itself. This ball court is situated such that players would have full view of the city located above them. The two smaller courts are secondary and probably used for training ball players.\n\nThe site was initially explored in the 1930s by Jorge Acosta. He was only able to examine the ends of the large ball court. He speculated that the constructions at this site were ceremonial and defensive in nature, constructed in the 7th to 9th centuries to protect a growing Monte Alban. Formal excavation was not considered for the site until recently due to its distance from the main Monte Alban site. The site is still being excavated with plans to open it to the public in 2012. Starting in 2010, work has intensified in building the infrastructure needed for the Santa Maria Atzompa archeological site, to be opened to the public in 2012 as an adjunct to the Monte Alban site. A laboratory and security booths have been built, paid for by the INAH. The laboratory is for the testing and dating of ceramic pieces and other artifacts. Walking paths are being constructed by the state government. The archeological work displaced about 100 people from their homes, but the promise of tourism in the future has satisfied the community. As of November 2012 this site is open to the public.\n\nAs municipal seat, the town of Santa María Atzompa is the local governing authority for itself and the communities of Montealbán, San Jerónimo Yahuiche, San José Hidalgo, Santa Catarina Montaño, La Soledad, La Cañada, Rancho Concepción, La Cañadita, Loma del Puente, La Raya de Yahuiche, Salida a San Lorenzo, Los Sibaja (Calle del Canal), Colonia Odisea, El Rincón, Paraje Río Chiquito, Loma del Paredón and Paraje Loma de la Virgen. The municipality has a total population of 19,876, 85% of which live in the town proper,(inegi) and covers an area of 22.96km2. 1,726 people speak an indigenous language. The municipality borders the municipalities of Guadalupe Etla, San Jacinto Amilpas, San Lorenzo Cacaotepec, San Pablo Etla, San Pedro Ixtlahuaca and Oaxaca de Juárez.\n\nMain elevations include Cerro Apazle, Cerro del Bonete, Cerro de la Golondrina, Loma de San Isidro and Loma del Paderon. There is one river called the Chiquito River, which flows only during the rainy season. It has a temperate climate. Natural vegetation includes jacaranda, guaje, mesquite, white sapote and American pepper. Wildlife includes rabbits, hares, frogs, lizards and a wide variety of birds and insects. \nAgriculture employs about 7% of the population, industry, construction and mining 40% and commerce, tourism and services employ 50%.\n"}
{"id": "56366044", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56366044", "title": "Social murder", "text": "Social murder\n\nSocial murder is a phrase used by Friedrich Engels in his 1845 work \"The Condition of the Working-Class in England\" whereby \"the class which at present holds social and political control\" (i.e. the bourgeoisie) \"places hundreds of proletarians in such a position that they inevitably meet a too early and an unnatural death\". This was in a different category to murder and manslaughter committed by individuals against one another, as social murder explicitly was committed by the political and social elite against the poorest in society.\n\nAlthough originally written with regard to the English city of Manchester in the Victorian era, the term has controversially been used by left-wing politicians such as John McDonnell in the 21st century to describe Conservative economic policy, as well as events such as the Grenfell Tower fire.\n"}
{"id": "1164162", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1164162", "title": "Te Wairoa (village)", "text": "Te Wairoa (village)\n\nTe Wairoa (also known as The Buried Village) is a deserted village located close to the shore of Lake Tarawera in New Zealand's North Island. It was a Māori and European settlement founded in 1848 by the Revd Seymour Mills Spencer where visitors would stay on their way to visit the Pink and White Terraces. The village was destroyed by the eruption of the volcano Mount Tarawera on June 10, 1886. 120 people died in the eruption, many of them in other villages closer to the volcano.The site of one of these villages (Kokotaia) was instrumental in the recent rediscovery of the Pink and White Terrace locations.\n\nThe Buried Village is open to the public and shows the excavated ruins of the village, recovered relics on display in a museum and the history of the eruption. It is located 14 kilometres southeast of Rotorua on Tarawera Road.\n\nA Māori meeting house named Hinemihi which provided shelter to the people of Te Wairoa village during the eruption was relocated in 1892 to Clandon Park as an ornamental garden building and a souvenir of William Onslow, 4th Earl of Onslow.\n\nAround three to four generations of the Smith Family have had ownership of the land at Te Wairoa. The first generation of the Smith family bought the site of Te Wairoa from the CMS missionary, Rev. Seymour Mills Spencer, at Te Wairoa. Since then the Smith family have run the excavating of Te Wairoa.\n\nTe Wairoa Stream flows on the southern edge of the village and over the Wairere Falls. The stream links Lake Rotokakahi () with Lake Tarawera ().\n\n"}
{"id": "18386777", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18386777", "title": "Technoromanticism", "text": "Technoromanticism\n\nStéphan Barron was the first to develop the concept of Technoromanticism between 1991 and 1996 for his doctoral thesis at the University Paris VIII. The main theme of his research is what he calls “Technoromantisme/Technoromanticism”, a neologism which he created and which has been adopted by other English-speaking researchers. Technoromantism is the theory of links between art and new technologies, within the context of the threats posed to nature by technoscience and economic development. Technoromanticism also seeks to analyse the return of the human body within technological arts, formulating the hypothesis that a technological society needs a corporeal rebalancing of perceptions. Delayed for editorial reasons, his book \"Technoromantisme\" was published by l'Harmattan in 2003. Technoromanticism is a term used to indicate those aspects of contemporary culture that ascribe to advanced technologies the capacity to promote the power of the imagination, to restore the role of genius and to bring about a unity; in other words that revive and perpetuate the legacy of the eighteenth- and nineteenth-century artistic and philosophical movement known as Romanticism, but by technological means. The term was used in 1999 in a book that bore the title \"Technoromanticism\" outlining evidence of romanticism in many commentaries on digital technology at the time.\n\nAs such, technoromanticism attributes to technology the capacity to redeem humankind from its problems and bring about techno-utopias. According to this thesis, technoromanticism is idealistic, it also looks backwards, seeing in advanced technologies the opportunity to return to craft values, analogous to William Morris’ romance with Medieval guilds. It appeals to narratives of wholeness, against rationalism which is putatively reductive. Moves to invoke digital networks as a means of returning human society and the world to an organic whole could be regarded as technoromantic, as well as digital technology’s supposed religiously redemptive aspects.\n\nThe term “technoromanticism” seems to draw resonances from its opposition to the concept of techno\"rationalism\", targeted by critical theorists such as Theodor W. Adorno and Herbert Marcuse. One motivation for describing certain aspects of digital culture as ‘’technoromantic’’ may be to signal that what many people claim about advanced networked computing is old fashioned and embedded in traditional ways of thinking, however innovative the technology. The term also buys into debates within the design methods movement about Rationalism and Romanticism, or in philosophy between objectivism and subjectivism, particularly as articulated by the philosopher Richard J. Bernstein. The term may also encourage critique of certain commentators who seem to claim they are adopting postmodern ways of thinking when in fact they may be referencing romanticism, or lapsing into what George Lakoff and Mark Johnson describe negatively as “armchair phenomenology.”\n\nTechnoromanticism is therefore mainly a pejorative term for a naïve attitude to what digital technologies are and may accomplish. As such the label may misrepresent the profound aspects of the philosophical movement of Romanticism as advanced by Schlegel and Schelling, and on whom many radical twentieth century thinkers have drawn, particularly Martin Heidegger. There are those who deliberately label their activity as technoromantic, such as the artist Stéphan Barron, who has adopted the word in a positive way to categorise his art.\n\nThe most potent opposition to technoromanticism seems to come less from a return to rationalism than from arguments advanced from the positions of embodiment, situated cognition, Pragmatism, Phenomenology, and the strategies of Deconstruction as outlined in the context of digital computing by Winograd and Flores, Clark, Dreyfus and Coyne.\n"}
{"id": "495373", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=495373", "title": "Time of Troubles", "text": "Time of Troubles\n\nThe Time of Troubles (, \"Smutnoe vremya\") was a period of Russian history comprising the years of interregnum between the death of the last Russian Tsar of the Rurik Dynasty, Feodor Ivanovich, in 1598, and the establishment of the Romanov Dynasty in 1613. In 1601–03, Russia suffered a famine that killed one-third of the population, about two million. At the time, during the Polish–Russian War (1605–18) (known as the \"Dimitriads\"), Russia was occupied by the Polish–Lithuanian Commonwealth, and suffered from many civil uprisings, usurpers and impostors.\n\nAfter Feodor's death, his brother-in-law and closest advisor, \"boyar\" Boris Godunov, who had already acted as regent for the mentally-challenged Feodor, was elected his successor by a Great National Assembly (\"Zemsky Sobor\"). Godunov's short reign (1598–1605) was not as successful as his administration under the weak Feodor.\n\nExtremely poor harvests were encountered in 1601–03, with night time temperatures in all summer months often below freezing, wrecking crops; see Russian famine of 1601–03. This was part of a global trend in climate change, known as the General Crisis. One probable cause of climatic changes was the eruption of Huaynaputina volcano in Peru in 1600. Widespread hunger led to the mass starvation of about two million Russians, a third of the population. \n\nThe government distributed money and food for poor people in Moscow. This led to refugees flocking to the capital and increasing the economic disorganization. The oligarchical faction, headed by the Romanovs, considered it a disgrace to obey a boyar. Conspiracies were frequent. Rural districts were desolated by famine and plague. Large bands of armed brigands roamed the country committing all manner of atrocities. The Don Cossacks on the frontier were restless. The central government demonstrated it could not keep order.\n\nUnder the influence of the great nobles who had unsuccessfully opposed the election of Godunov, the general discontent was expressed as hostility to him as a usurper. Rumours circulated that the late tsar's younger brother Dmitri, thought to be dead, was still alive and in hiding.\n\nIn 1603 a man calling himself Dmitri—first of the so-called False Dmitris—and professing to be the rightful heir to the throne, appeared in the Polish–Lithuanian Commonwealth. The real prince Dmitry of Uglich, son of Ivan IV, had been stabbed to death at early age, before his brother Feodor's death, either by accident or by Godunov's order. The mysterious individual who was impersonating him was regarded as the rightful heir by many of the population. \n\nHe attracted support both in Russia and outside its borders, particularly in the Polish Commonwealth and the Papal States. Factions in the Polish Commonwealth saw him as a tool to extend their influence over Russia, or at least gain wealth in return for their support. The Papacy saw it as an opportunity to increase the hold of Roman Catholicism over the Eastern Orthodox Russians.\n\nA few months later in 1603, Polish forces crossed the frontier with a small force of 4,000 Poles, Lithuanians, Russian exiles, German mercenaries and Cossacks from the Dnieper and the Don, in what marked the beginning of the Polish Commonwealth's intervention in Russia, or the Dymitriad wars. Although the Polish Commonwealth had not officially declared war on Russia - Sigismund III Vasa quietly supported the intervention, but the Commonwealth was too preoccupied with its conflicts with Sweden and Turkey to start another war with Russia - some powerful magnates decided to support False Dmitri with their own forces and money, in the expectation of rich rewards afterward. False Dmitri was married \"per procura\" to Marina Mniszech, and immediately after Godunov's death in 1605, he made his triumphal entry into Moscow.\n\nThe reign of False Dimitri was short. The new monarch, who married the Polish Marina Mniszech in exchange for promises of vast grants of land and wealth, converted to Catholicism and relied upon Polish Jesuits and Polish nobles that played a prominent role at his court, as well as on Mniszech's private armies, was seen by many as a tool of Poland. He became unpopular very quickly and was overthrown and killed by armed mobs during the Moscow uprising in May 1606. Many of his Polish-Lithuanian advisors were also killed or imprisoned during the rebellion.\n\nShuisky seized power and was elected tsar by an assembly composed of his faction, but the change did not satisfy the Russian boyars, Commonwealth magnates, Cossacks, or the German mercenaries, and soon a new impostor, likewise calling himself Dmitri, son and heir of Ivan the Terrible, came forward as the rightful heir. Like his predecessor, he enjoyed the protection and support of the Polish–Lithuanian magnates. After Shuisky signed an alliance with Sweden, the king of the Commonwealth, Sigismund III, seeing the Russian–Swedish alliance as a threat, resolved to intervene and began the Polish–Muscovite War (1605–18).\nPolish–Lithuanian troops crossed the Russian borders and laid siege to the fortress of Smolensk. After the combined Russo–Swedish forces were destroyed at the Battle of Klushino, Shuisky was forced to abdicate. Before False Dmitri II could gain the throne, the Polish commander, voivode, and magnate Stanisław Żółkiewski, put forward a rival candidate: Sigismund's son, Władysław. Some people in Moscow swore allegiance to him on condition of his maintaining Orthodoxy and granting certain privileges to them. On this understanding, they allowed Polish troops to enter the city and occupy the Kremlin.\n\nThe Polish king opposed the compromise, deciding to take the throne for himself and to convert Russia to Roman Catholicism. The contending factions were opposed and his plan aroused the anti-Catholic and anti-Polish feelings in Russia. The Swedes disapproved as they were rivals of the Poles on the Baltic coast. They declared war on Russia, supporting a false Dmitri of their choice in Ivangorod.\n\nRussia was in a critical condition. The throne was vacant. The great nobles (boyars) quarrelled among themselves. Orthodox Patriarch Hermogenes was imprisoned. Catholic Poles occupied the Moscow Kremlin and Smolensk. The Protestant Swedes occupied Novgorod. Continuing Tatar raids left the south borderlands of Russia completely depopulated and devastated. \n\nEnormous bands of brigands swarmed everywhere. Tens of thousands died in battles and riots. On 17–19 March 1611, the Polish and German mercenaries suppressed riots in Moscow. They massacred 7,000 Muscovites and set the city on fire. Many other cities were also devastated or weakened. For example, on 22 September 1612, the Poles and Lithuanians exterminated the population and clergy of Vologda.\n\nThe nation rose together under the leadership of Kuzma Minin, a Nizhny Novgorod merchant, and Prince Dmitry Pozharsky. After the battle for Moscow on 22 October 1612 Old Style (1 November New Style), the invaders retreated to the Kremlin, and on 24–27 October O.S. (3–6 November N.S.) the nearby Polish army was forced to retreat. The garrison in the Kremlin surrendered to the triumphant Pozharsky. The festival of National Unity Day commemorating this event on November 4 was held annually until the rise of communism, when it was replaced by celebrations for the October Revolution. National Unity Day was reinstated by President Putin in 2005.\n\nA Grand National Assembly elected as tsar 16-year-old Michael Romanov, the young son of the metropolitan Philaret. He was connected by marriage with the late dynasty and, according to the legend, had been saved from the enemies by a heroic peasant, Ivan Susanin. After taking power, the new Tsar ordered the 3-year-old son of the False Dmitri II to be hanged, and had Dmitri's wife Maryna strangled.\n\nThe Ingrian Wars against Sweden lasted until the Treaty of Stolbovo in 1617. Russia's Dymitriad wars against the Commonwealth would last until the Peace of Deulino in 1619. While gaining peace through the treaties, both nations forced Russia to make some territorial concessions, though they lost the majority of them over the coming centuries. Most importantly, the crisis was instrumental in unifying all classes of the Russian society around the Romanov tsars and established foundations for the powerful Russian Empire.\n\nThis period of the \"Time of Troubles\" has inspired many artists and playwrights in Russia and beyond. The three most popular topics are the Pozharsky/Minin liberation of Moscow, the struggle between Boris Godunov and False Dmitry, and the story of Ivan Susanin, a peasant who was said to sacrifice himself to lead Poles away from Mikhail Romanov.\n\nRussian and Polish artists have painted numerous works based on these events.\n\nNumerous histories have been written, as well. In 2001, Chester Dunning, a specialist in Russian history at Texas A&M University published the nearly 700-page \"Russia's First Civil War: The Time of Troubles and the Founding of the Romanov Dynasty\". Twelve years in the research and writing, his work was a History Book Club selection published by the Pennsylvania State University Press. Dunning's thesis is that modern Russia begins in 1613 with the founding of the Romanov dynasty. He covers the Time of Troubles and their contribution to the founding.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28113", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28113", "title": "Timeline for September following the September 11 attacks", "text": "Timeline for September following the September 11 attacks\n\nThis article summarizes the events in the remaining days of September 2001 following the September 11 attacks which relate to the attacks. All times, except where otherwise noted, are in Eastern Daylight Time (EDT), or .\n\n\n\nThe National Day of Prayer and Remembrance\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58453", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58453", "title": "Timeline of photography technology", "text": "Timeline of photography technology\n\nThe following list comprises significant milestones in the development of photography technology.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47185919", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47185919", "title": "Tomás Ó Con Cheanainn", "text": "Tomás Ó Con Cheanainn\n\nTomás Ó Con Cheanainn (1921 – 13 June 2015) was an Irish scholar and historian.\n\nA native of Baile an tSagairt, Cois Fhairrge, County Galway, Ó Con Cheanainn won a scholarship in 1940 to University College Galway, studying for a BA in Irish and Classics. His MA thesis concerned a hagiographical text in the Leabhar Breac - the early 15th-century codex was later a subject of \"a major palaeographical study, which marked the commencement of a virtual reinvention, wrought single-handedly in his lifetime, of scholarly knowledge concerning the culture and traditions of Connacht.\"\n\nAccording to his obit in The Irish Times:\n\n\"Tomás had an unrivalled knowledge of the literary and historical content of Irish manuscripts, medieval and modern. But he was also a palaeographical “natural”, possessed of a wonderfully keen eye for the salient features of a scribal hand. Long before digital imagery and databases, he showed a capacity to recall and associate such features in manuscripts from different collections, and to fix an identity previously unrecognised. He mastered the art of describing styles of handwriting with clarity and exactness, regardless of whether he was writing in English or, as he did almost exclusively in later years, in Irish.\"\n\nÓ Con Cheanainn held the chair of Classical Irish at University College Dublin until his retirement in 1986. From 1975 to 1986 he edited , and was a member of the Royal Irish Academy. The last of his many articles, written when age 90, concerned his dynastic ancestors, the Uí Díarmata and the process by which its ruling sept adopted the surname Ua Con Cheanainn.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16750329", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16750329", "title": "Tracy Price-Thompson", "text": "Tracy Price-Thompson\n\nTracy Price-Thompson (born 1963) is a speaker, novelist, and retired United States Army Engineer officer. She is a veteran of the Gulf War. She self-published her first novel, \"Black Coffee\", at the age of 37. A story about an illicit romance between a female officer in the United States Army and a married enlisted man, it was quickly bought by Striver's Row, an imprint of Random House and became a bestseller. She has since published five more novels: \" Chocolate Sangria\", \"A Woman's Worth\", \"Knockin' Boots\", \"Gather Together In My Name\" and \"1-900-ANYTIME\".\n\n\"A Woman's Worth\" won the 2005 Hurston/Wright Legacy Award for Contemporary Fiction.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30364320", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30364320", "title": "William Canniff", "text": "William Canniff\n\nWilliam Canniff, (born in Thurlow, Upper Canada, 20 June 1830; died in Belleville, Ontario 18 October 1910) was a surgeon, public health pioneer, historian and advocate of Canadian nationalism.\n\nDr. William Canniff trained in medicine in Canada, the US, Great Britain and Europe prior to settling in Belleville where he practiced surgery. In 1852 he enrolled at the Victoria College Medical School studying under Dr. William Thomas Aikins. Following brief periods of study and practice in New York, London, Edinburgh, Dublin, and Paris, Canniff returned to Belleville, Ontario, joining the faculty of the Victoria School in 1859 as a lecturer in pathology. Canniff was rapidly promoted to Professor of Surgery, however, he resigned his position in 1863 following a conflict with his colleague, John Rolph. Canniff returned to the Victoria School in 1868 and remained there until its closure in 1874. During his brief departure from Victoria College, Canniff authored the first Canadian textbook on pathology, \"A manual of the principles of surgery: based on pathology for students\", Philadelphia: Lindsay & Blakiston, 1866. Canniff became a founding member of the Canadian Medical Association in 1867 and the Ontario Medical Association in 1880.\n\nIn 1883, Canniff became Toronto's first permanent Medical Officer of Health. In his role as MOH, Canniff appreciated the role of water in disease transmission, and advocated hygienic waste-water disposal and a centralized drinking water supply for the city. Throughout his tenure as chief medical officer for Toronto, Canniff met resistance from physicians who defied his department's requirement for infectious disease reporting, arguing that the extra effort needed to do this went uncompensated. At the same time, city council continued to pressure Canniff for his failure to collect comprehensive disease surveillance statistics, criticizing his lack of impact on the growing spread of infectious illnesses. Both factors fed Canniff's frustration, ultimately leading to his resignation from the department in 1890. After Canniff's departure, the position remained unfilled for two years until the hiring of Dr. Norman Allen.\n\nCanniff was a member of the Canada First movement whose membership promoted Canadian nationalism. Canniff was also a noted historian, authoring \"History Of The Settlement Of Upper Canada, Ontario: With Special Reference To The Bay Quinte, Toronto: Dudley & Burns, Toronto, 1869; Mason; \"History Of The Province Of Ontario (Upper Canada)\", Toronto: A.H. Hovey, 1872; and \"The Medical Profession in Upper Canada 1783-1850\", Toronto: William Briggs, 1894.\n\n"}
{"id": "36282893", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36282893", "title": "World Trade Center Health Program", "text": "World Trade Center Health Program\n\nThe World Trade Center Health Program (WTC Health Program) provides medical benefits to specific groups of individuals affected by the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks on the United States. The WTC Health Program was established by Title I of the James Zadroga 9/11 Health and Compensation Act (Zadroga Act), P.L. 111-347, which amended the Public Health Service Act. The United States Congress passed the bill in December 2010 and United States President Barack Obama signed it into law on January 2, 2011. The Zadroga Act required the WTC Health Program to begin administering medical benefits on July 1, 2011. On December 18, 2015, the Zadroga Act was reauthorized to provide medical benefits to affected individuals until 2090. The National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH), within the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, administers the program. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention is component of the United States Department of Health and Human Services (HHS).\n\nThe collapse of the World Trade Center towers on September 11, 2001 (9/11) caused physical hazards as well as massive dust cloud, consisting of pulverized building materials, electronic equipment, and furniture to blanket the World Trade Center site and the surrounding area. Many 9/11 responders, local workers, and resident survivors have since developed respiratory diseases, digestive disorders, cancers, or mental health disorders as a result of these toxic exposures. The WTC Health Program provides screening and treatment for a specific list of 9/11-related conditions.\n\nOn September 11, 2001, 19 terrorists associated with the Islamist militant group al-Qaeda hijacked four passenger jets in a series of suicide attacks on the United States, killing 2,996 people and injuring more than 6,000 others. Hijackers flew planes into two main towers of the World Trade Center, resulting in the collapse of three buildings of the World Trade Center complex, and the Pentagon, resulting in the partial destruction of the western side in the building. The resulting dust cloud due to the collapse of the World Trade Center covered Manhattan for days and contained thousands of tons of toxic debris, including asbestos and other known carcinogens. Another hijacked plane crashed into a field in Shanksville, Pennsylvania following an attempt by the passengers to retake control of the plane. No one in the airliners survived.\nAs of 2011, approximately 18,000 people have received medical treatment for illnesses related to toxic dust from the World Trade Center site. A study of rescue workers released in April 2010 found that all those studied had impaired lung functions, and that 30–40% were reporting little or no improvement in persistent symptoms that started within the first year of the attack. In 2011 a major research study showed significant long term medical and psychological effects among first responders to the World Trade Center site. These effects include elevated levels of asthma, sinusitis, Gastroesophageal reflux disease and posttraumatic stress disorder.\n\nResidents, students, and office workers of Lower Manhattan and nearby Chinatown have also reported negative health effects. Several deaths have been linked to the toxic dust, and the victims' names have been included in the World Trade Center memorial.\n\nAs of 2008, the New York State Department of Health had documented at least 204 deaths of rescue and recovery workers since September 11, 2001. 77 of these individuals died of illnesses, including 55 from lung and various other cancers. Kitty Gelberg, New York state Bureau of Occupational Health's chief epidemiologist said, \"We're not saying they are all World Trade Center related; we're just saying this is what people are dying from.\" Many of the 55 responders who died from cancer had cancer before September 11, 2001, but most of the cancer patients developed the disease afterward.\n\nIn 2002, following the 9/11 terrorist attacks, both the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health and the American Red Cross provided grants to launch the World Trade Center Medical Monitoring and Treatment Program (MMTP) in response to individuals developing health issues related to the disaster. The United States Congress passed appropriations to provide limited health screening and treatment services to World Trade Center responders. The MMTP has received approximately $475 million from the federal government. Over 57,000 people met the program's initial eligibility requirements. On July 1, 2011, MMTP became a part of the World Trade Center Health Program.\n\nThe World Trade Center Environmental Health Center (EHC) was also established after the 9/11 terrorist attacks to treat WTC-related illnesses. This program consisted of three locations in and around New York City. On September 30, 2008, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) awarded the New York City Health and Hospitals Corporation (HHC) a grant to be administered by the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH), to provide health services to non-responder populations in New York City affected by the World Trade Center terrorist attacks. Under the grant, HHC provided medical examinations, diagnostic testing, referral and treatment for residents, students, and others in the community that were directly affected by the dust and debris from the collapse of the World Trade Center buildings on September 11, 2001. Following the passage of the James Zadroga Act, the WTC EHC became part of the WTC Health Program.\n\nIn 2002 the Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry and the New York City Health Department launched the World Trade Center Health Registry in collaboration with the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health. By tracking and investigating illnesses, the WTC Health Registry strives to monitor the health of people exposed to the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks. The WTC Health Registry continues to release annual reports on new findings regarding the health effects resulting from the terrorist attacks.\n\nOn August 14, 2006, then-Governor of New York George Pataki signed legislation to expand death benefits to Ground Zero workers who die from cancer or respiratory diseases, presumably from exposures to hazardous materials and toxins during recovery efforts. At the bill-signing ceremony, held at the World Trade Center site, Pataki mentioned James Zadroga, a New York Police Department officer and 9/11 responder who had fallen ill following the terrorist attacks and died of lung disease in 2006. James Zadroga would become the namesake of the federal bill that created the WTC Health Program in 2011.\n\nOriginally introduced in 2006 and eventually made law in 2011, the James L. Zadroga 9/11 Health and Compensation Act of 2010 funds and establishes a health program to provide medical treatment for responders and survivors who experienced or may experience health complications related to the 9/11 terrorist attacks. Senator Bob Menendez and Congresswoman Carolyn Maloney initially co-sponsored the bill, which failed to pass in 2006.\n\nThe U.S. House passed a new version of the act in September 2010. In a Senate vote held on December 9, 2010, Democrats were unable to break a Republican filibuster against the bill. With only 57 votes to end the Senate filibuster and an incoming influx of Republicans in the wake of the 2010 Congressional Elections, the bill's future looked increasingly doubtful towards the end of 2010.\n\nOn December 16, 2010 comedian Jon Stewart dedicated an entire episode of \"The Daily Show\" to the political battle over the Zadroga Act. Stewart's coverage of the Republican filibuster raised media awareness of and public support for the bill, drawing praise from politicians and media outlets.\n\nOn December 19, 2010, New York Senators Chuck Schumer and Kirsten Gillibrand introduced a $6.2 billion version of the bill paid for in part by closing a corporate tax loophole and in part by a 2% excise tax on foreign goods that did not include countries with international procurement agreements with the U.S. On December 22, 2010, Congress approved the final bill, which allocated $4.2 billion towards the program, and President Barack Obama signed the Zadroga Act into law on January 2, 2011. This act created the World Trade Center Health Program, which replaced earlier programs (Medical Monitoring and Treatment Program and the WTC Environmental Health Center program). \n\nThe WTC Health Program covers responders who worked or volunteered in the rescue, recovery, or clean up efforts at the World Trade Center site in New York, the Pentagon, or the plane crash site in Shanksville, Pennsylvania. It also provides benefits for people who lived, worked, went to school, attended daycare, or adult daycare in the New York City disaster area after September 11th. Responders include members of the Fire Department of New York City who participated in the rescue and recovery effort at the World Trade Center sites, as well as other workers, law enforcement officers, and volunteers who participated in the 9/11 response efforts in New York City. Also included are members of fire and police departments, other workers and volunteers who responded to the 9/11 terrorist attacks at the Pentagon or in Shanksville, PA.\n\nNew York City responders include active or retired members of the Fire Department of New York City (whether fire or emergency personnel); Police Department of New York City (whether active or retired); Port Authority Police of the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey; employees of the Office of the Chief Medical Examiner of New York City and other morgue workers involved in handling human remains; workers in the Port Authority Trans-Hudson Corporate Tunnel; vehicle maintenance workers exposed to debris; and other workers or volunteers who assisted in the rescue, recovery, debris cleanup or related services. Members of the New York City Fire Department must have participated in the rescue and recovery effort at any of the former World Trade Center sites (including Ground Zero, Staten Island Landfill, and the New York City Chief Medical Examiner’s Office). Other workers and volunteers must have responded in lower Manhattan, including Ground Zero, the Staten Island Landfill, or the barge loading piers.\n\nThe program also provides medical treatment for survivors who were present in the New York City Disaster Area in the aftermath of the 9/11 terrorist attacks because of work, residence, or attendance at school, child care, or adult day care. Survivors also include individuals who happened to be present in this area on 9/11. The New York City Disaster Area includes the area of Manhattan south of Houston Street, as well as any block of Brooklyn either wholly or partially contained within a 1.5-mile radius of the former World Trade Center site. Full, up-to-date eligibility requirements and other important information is available at the World Trade Center Health Program's website.\n\nThe WTC Health Program only provides tests and treatment for conditions specified by law in the Zadroga Act or certified by the WTC Program Administrator, who is the Director of the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health. These include respiratory and digestive disorders and mental health conditions, as well as secondary conditions related to disease progression or complication from treatment of the primary covered health condition. Additionally, certain musculoskeletal disorders are covered for Fire Department of New York members and other responders injured in the response to the terrorist attacks. As of December 2017, the most common conditions certified by the World Trade Center Health Program were rhinosinusitis, gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD), asthma, sleep apnea, cancer, posttraumatic stress disorder, chronic respiratory disease, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, depression, and anxiety disorders. The most common cancers were skin cancer and prostate cancer.\n\nThe Zadroga Act established a process whereby the Administrator of the WTC Health Program may consider petitions by interested parties to add new conditions to the list of those covered by the WTC Health Program. In June 2012, Administrator Dr. John Howard proposed adding certain types of cancer as recommended by the WTC Health Program Scientific/Technical Advisory Committee, in a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking. Many types of cancer were officially added to the coverage list in 2012–2014.\n\nThere are several WTC Health Program clinic locations in the New York City.\n\nClinics for 9/11 responders include:\n\nSurvivors can receive testing and treatment through the NYC Health + Hospitals WTC Environmental Health Center at three locations:\n\nFDNY members can seek monitoring and treatment through the FDNY Responder Health Program, which operates in seven locations, including the FDNY Headquarters in Brooklyn, NY.\n\nEligible responders and survivors who are no longer living in the New York City area can receive care through the Nationwide Provider Network, which is national network of healthcare providers associated with WTC Health Program. More information can be found on their website..\n\nThere are three data centers that are responsible for collecting, managing and analyzing the health data generated from the medical program.\n\nThe data center for 9/11 responder clinics is housed at Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai. The FDNY houses a data center for its health program. And the survivor clinics have a data center at the NYC Health + Hospitals WTC Environmental Health Center.\n\nThe James Zadroga 9/11 Health and Compensation Act also provides monitoring and treatment for eligible responders to the 9/11 attacks at the Pentagon and in Shanksville, Pennsylvania who have, or may have, a covered health condition relating to the 9/11 attacks. Care is provided through the Nationwide Provider Network, and full up-to-date eligibility guidelines are available through the WTC Health Program's website.\n\n"}
{"id": "4586787", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4586787", "title": "Władysław Czapliński", "text": "Władysław Czapliński\n\nWładysław Czapliński (3 October 1905 in Tuchów – 17 August 1981 in Wrocław) was a Polish historian, a professor of the University of Wrocław, author of many popular books about Polish history.\n\nHe finished his studies at the Jagiellonian University in 1927 in the Second Polish Republic, and for the next several years he was a teacher of history. During the Second World War he took part in the underground education in Poland during World War II. After the war he moved to Wrocław, where he worked at the local university until his retirement in 1975.\n\nHe received many awards, including an honoris causa diploma from University of Gdańsk. He specialized in the 17th century: history of Denmark, Chmielnicki Uprising, Władysław IV Vasa and the Thirty Years' War.\n\n"}
