{"id": "1810270", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1810270", "title": "Adaeus", "text": "Adaeus\n\nAdaeus, or Addaeus (Greek: Ἀδαῖος or Ἀδδαῖος), a Greek epigrammatic poet, a native most probably of Macedonia. The epithet Μακεδών is appended to his name before the third epigram in the Vat. MS. (Anth. Gr. vi. 228); and the subjects of the second, eighth, ninth, and tenth epigrams agree with this account of his origin. He lived in the time of Alexander the Great, to whose death he alludes. (Anth. Gr. vii. 240.) His date is further fixed by the mention of Potidaea in another epigram, as Cassander, who died B.C. 296, changed the name of the city into Cassandreia. His extant poems are chiefly about country life and hunting.\n\nThe fifth epigram (Anth. Gr. vii. 305) is inscribed Αδδαίου Μυτιληναίου, and there was a Mytilenaean of this name, who wrote two prose works Περί αγαλματοποιών (On statue-makers) and Περί Διαθέσεως (On disposition) (Athen. xiii. p. 606. A, xi. p. 471, F.) The time when he lived cannot be fixed with certainty. Reiske, though on insufficient grounds, believes these two to be the same person. (Anth. Grace, vi. 228, 2589 vii. 51, 238, 240, 305, x. 20 ; Brunck, Anal. ii. p. 224 ; Jacobs, xiii. p. 831.) [C. P. M.] \n\nThere was also another Adaeus, a rhetorician, to whom Seneca the elder frequently refers.\n\n\nPoets of Greece Proper and Macedonia on about.com\n"}
{"id": "4935598", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4935598", "title": "Ahmed Adil", "text": "Ahmed Adil\n\nAhmed Adil is a citizen of China who was held in extrajudicial detention in the United States Guantanamo Bay detainment camps, in Cuba.\nAdil's Guantanamo Internment Serial Number was 260.\nAmerican intelligence analysts estimate he was born in 1973, in Kashgar, China.\n\nAdil is one of approximately two dozen detainees from the Uyghur ethnic group.\nAdil is one of approximately half a dozen Uyghurs whose Combatant Status Review Tribunals determined they were not enemy combatants after all.\nFive of the Uyghurs were transferred to Albania.\nSeveral others had new Tribunals convened that reversed the earlier determination.\n\nThe information paper also identified him as \"Ahnad Adil\".\n\nOn March 3, 2006, in response to a court order from Jed Rakoff the Department of Defense published a six page summarized transcript from his Combatant Status Review Tribunal.\n\nAdil wrote to Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice on January 19, 2006. In his letter, he wrote that his Tribunal determined he was innocent on May 9, 2005. He said he was appealing directly to Rice because he had tried all other options.\n\nOn May 5, 2006, the Department of Defense announced that they had transferred five Uyghurs who had been determined not to have been enemy combatants, to Albania.\nSeventeen other Uyghurs continue to be held at Guantanamo, because their CSRTs determined they were enemy combatants.\n\nOn June 15, 2008, the McClatchy News Service published articles based on interviews with 66 former Guantanamo captives. McClatchy reporters interviewed Ahmed Adil.\nDuring his interview Ahmed Adil described life in the Uyghur construction camp:\nAhmed Adil told his interviewers that he spent long periods in solitary confinement, in a cell that was only 3 x 6 feet, and that he was always chained to the floor during his interrogations.\n"}
{"id": "35214272", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35214272", "title": "Albert III, Margrave of Brandenburg-Salzwedel", "text": "Albert III, Margrave of Brandenburg-Salzwedel\n\nAlbert III, Margrave of Brandenburg-Salzwedel ( – between 19 November and 4 December 1300) was a Margrave of Brandenburg. He was a member of the Brandenburg-Salzwedel branch of the House of Ascania, which existed from 1266 to 1317. He was a son of Otto III and his wife, Beatrice (or ) of Bohemia.\n\nAs a son of Otto, he was entitled to use the title of Margrave and he did sign some official documents, be he was never more than a co-ruler. The real power was wielded by his cousin Otto IV \"with the arrow\". Albert III administered the Lordship of Stargard, which Brandenburg had acquired from Pomerania in 1236. Albert III was from 1284 the sole ruler of Stargard and Lychen. After his sons Otto and John died (around 1299), Albert III sold Stargard to his son-in-law Henry II of Mecklenburg. The 1304 Treaty of Vietmannsdorf confirmed Henry II as Lord a Stargard and enshrined that it was held as a fief from Brandenburg.\n\nIn 1299, a year before his death, he founded the Cistercian monastery (\"Gate to Heaven\") in Lychen.\n\nAlbert III died on 3 December 1300 and was initially buried at Lehnin Abbey. In 1309, his body was transferred to the \"Coeli Porta\" monastery. It was subsequently lost.\n\nAlbert III married in 1268 to Matilda (d. 1300), a daughter of King Christopher I of Denmark. They had the following children:\n\n"}
{"id": "1872736", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1872736", "title": "Apex predator", "text": "Apex predator\n\nAn apex predator, also known as an alpha predator or top predator, is a predator at the top of a food chain, with no natural predators.\n\nApex predators are usually defined in terms of trophic dynamics, meaning that they occupy the highest trophic levels. Food chains are often far shorter on land, usually limited to being secondary consumers – for example, wolves prey mostly upon large herbivores (primary consumers), which eat plants (primary producers). The apex predator concept is applied in wildlife management, conservation and ecotourism.\n\nApex predators have a long evolutionary history, dating at least to the Cambrian period when animals such as \"Anomalocaris\" dominated the seas.\n\nHumans have for many centuries interacted with apex predators including the wolf, birds of prey and cormorants to hunt game animals, birds, and fish respectively. More recently, ecotourism such as with the tiger shark has become popular, and rewilding with predators such as the lynx has been proposed.\n\nApex predators affect prey species' population dynamics and populations of other predators, both in aquatic and in terrestrial ecosystems. Non-native predatory fish, for instance, have sometimes devastated formerly dominant predators. A lake manipulation study found that when the non-native smallmouth bass was removed, lake trout, the suppressed native apex predator, diversified its prey selection and increased its trophic level. As a terrestrial example, the badger, an apex predator, predates on and also competes with the hedgehog, a mesopredator, for food such as insects, small mammals, reptiles, amphibians and ground-nesting bird's eggs. Removal of badgers (in a trial investigating bovine tuberculosis) caused hedgehog densities to more than double. Predators that exert a top-down control on organisms in their community are often considered keystone species. The presence of any top predator (bear, big cat, wolf, dog, or especially human) can greatly alter the behavior of such a smaller predator as a badger.\n\nApex predators can have profound effects on ecosystems, as the consequences of both controlling prey density and restricting smaller predators, and may be capable of self-regulation. They are central to the functioning of ecosystems, the regulation of disease, and the maintenance of biodiversity. When introduced to subarctic islands, for example, Arctic foxes' predation of seabirds has been shown to turn grassland into tundra. Such wide-ranging effects on lower levels of an ecosystem are termed trophic cascades. The removal of top-level predators, often through human agency, can cause or disrupt trophic cascades. For example, reduction in the population of sperm whales, apex predators with a fractional trophic level of 4.7, by hunting has caused an increase in the population of large squid, trophic level over 4 (carnivores that eat other carnivores). This effect, called mesopredator release, occurs in terrestrial and marine ecosystems; for instance, in North America, the ranges of all apex carnivores have contracted whereas those of 60% of mesopredators have grown in the past two centuries.\n\nBecause apex predators have powerful effects on other predators, on herbivores, and on plants, they can be important in nature conservation. Humans have hunted many apex predators close to extinction, but in some parts of the world these predators are now returning. They are increasingly threatened by climate change. For example, the polar bear requires extensive areas of sea ice to hunt its prey, typically seals, but climate change is shrinking the sea ice of the Arctic, forcing polar bears to fast on land for increasingly long periods.\n\nDramatic changes in the Greater Yellowstone Ecosystem were recorded after the gray wolf, both an apex predator and a keystone species (one with a large effect on its ecosystem), was reintroduced to Yellowstone National Park in 1995 as a conservation measure. Elk, the wolves' primary prey, became less abundant and changed their behavior, freeing riparian zones from constant grazing and allowing willows, aspens and cottonwoods to flourish, creating habitats for beaver, moose and scores of other species. In addition to their effect on prey species, the wolves' presence also affected one of the park's vulnerable species, the grizzly bear: emerging from hibernation, having fasted for months, the bears chose to scavenge wolf kills, especially during the autumn as they prepared to hibernate once again. The grizzly bear gives birth during hibernation, so the increased food supply is expected to produce an increase in the numbers of cubs observed. Dozens of other species, including eagles, ravens, magpies, coyotes and black bears have also been documented as scavenging from wolf kills within the park.\n\nEcologists have debated whether humans are apex predators. Sylvain Bonhommeau and colleagues argued in 2013 that across the global food web, a fractional human trophic level (HTL) can be calculated as the mean trophic level of every species in the human diet, weighted by the proportion which that species forms in the diet. This analysis gives an average HTL of 2.21, varying between 2.04 (for Burundi, with a 96.7% plant-based diet) and 2.57 (for Iceland, with 50% meat and fish, 50% plants). These values are comparable to those of non-apex predators like anchovy or pig. Peter D. Roopnarine criticised Bonhommeau's approach, arguing that humans are apex predators, and that the HTL was based on terrestrial farming where indeed humans have a low trophic level, mainly eating producers (crop plants at level 1) or primary consumers (herbivores at level 2), which as expected places humans at a level slightly above 2. Roopnarine instead calculated the position of humans in two marine ecosystems, a Caribbean coral reef and the Benguela system near South Africa. In these systems, humans mainly eat predatory fish and have a fractional trophic level of 4.65 and 4.5 respectively, which in Roopnarine's view makes those humans apex predators.\n\nApex predators are thought to have existed since at least the Cambrian period, around 500 million years ago. Extinct species cannot be directly determined to be apex predators as their behaviour cannot be observed, and clues to ecological relationships, such as bite marks on bones or shells, do not form a complete picture. However, indirect evidence such as the absence of any discernible predator in an environment is suggestive. \"Anomalocaris\" was an aquatic apex predator, in the Cambrian. Its mouthparts are clearly predatory, and there were no larger animals in the seas at that time.\n\nCarnivorous theropod dinosaurs including \"Allosaurus\" and \"Tyrannosaurus\" have been described as apex predators, based on their size and dietary needs. \n\nA Permian shark, \"Triodus sessilis\", was discovered containing two amphibians (\"Archegosaurus decheni\" and \"Cheliderpeton latirostre\"), one of which had consumed a fish, \"Acanthodes bronni\", showing that the shark had lived at a trophic level of at least 4.\n\nAmong more recent fossils, the sabre-tooth cats, like \"Smilodon\", are considered to have been apex predators in the Cenozoic.\n\nHumans hunted with wolves and in turn with domestic dogs for some 40,000 years; this collaboration may have helped modern humans to outcompete the Neanderthals. Humans still hunt with dogs, which have often been bred as gun dogs to point to, flush out, or retrieve prey. The Portuguese Water Dog was used to drive fish into nets. Several breeds of dog have been used to chase large prey such as deer and wolves. \n\nAmong other apex predators, birds of prey from eagles to falcons are used in falconry, hunting birds or mammals; and tethered cormorants have been used to catch fish.\n\nEcotourism sometimes relies on apex predators to attract business. Tour operators may in consequence decide to intervene in ecosystems, for example by providing food to attract predators to areas that can conveniently be visited. This in turn can have effects on predator population and therefore on the wider ecosystem. As a result, provisioning of species such as the tiger shark is controversial, but its effects are not well established by empirical evidence. Other affected apex predators include big cats and crocodiles.\n\nIn some densely populated areas like the British Isles, all the large native predators like the wolf, bear, wolverine and lynx have become locally extinct, allowing herbivores such as deer to multiply unchecked except by hunting. In 2015, plans were made to reintroduce lynx to the counties of Norfolk, Cumbria, and Northumberland in England, and Aberdeenshire in Scotland as part of the rewilding movement. The reintroduction of large predators is controversial, not least because of concern among farmers for their livestock. Conservationists such as Paul Lister propose instead to allow wolves and bears to hunt their prey in a \"managed environment\" on large fenced reserves.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "78032", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78032", "title": "Apomixis", "text": "Apomixis\n\nIn botany, apomixis was defined by Hans Winkler as replacement of the normal sexual reproduction by asexual reproduction, without fertilization. Its etymology is Greek for \"away from\" + \"mixing\". This definition notably does not mention meiosis. Thus \"normal asexual reproduction\" of plants, such as propagation from cuttings or leaves, has never been considered to be apomixis, but replacement of the seed by a plantlet or replacement of the flower by bulbils were categorized as types of apomixis. Apomictically produced offspring are genetically identical to the parent plant.\n\nSome authors included all forms of asexual reproduction within apomixis, but that generalization of the term has since died out.\n\nIn flowering plants, the term \"apomixis\" is commonly used in a restricted sense to mean agamospermy, i.e. clonal reproduction through seeds. Although agamospermy could theoretically occur in gymnosperms, it appears to be absent in that group.\n\nApogamy is a related term that has had various meanings over time. In plants with independent gametophytes (notably ferns), the term is still used interchangeably with \"apomixis\", and both refer to the formation of sporophytes by parthenogenesis of gametophyte cells.\n\nMale apomixis (paternal apomixis) involves replacement of the genetic material of the egg cell by that from the pollen.\n\nBecause apomictic plants are genetically identical from one generation to the next, each lineage has some of the characters of a true species, maintaining distinctions from other apomictic lineages within the same genus, while having much smaller differences than is normal between species of most genera. They are therefore often called microspecies. In some genera, it is possible to identify and name hundreds or even thousands of microspecies, which may be grouped together as species aggregates, typically listed in floras with the convention \"\"Genus species\" agg.\" (such as the bramble, \"Rubus fruticosus\" agg.). In some plant families, genera with apomixis are quite common, for example in Asteraceae, Poaceae, and Rosaceae. Examples of apomixis can be found in the genera \"Crataegus\" (hawthorns), \"Amelanchier\" (shadbush), \"Sorbus\" (rowans and whitebeams), \"Rubus\" (brambles or blackberries), \"Poa\" (meadow grasses), \"Nardus stricta\" (Matgrass), \"Hieracium\" (hawkweeds) and \"Taraxacum\" (dandelions). Apomixis is reported to occur in about 10% of globally extant ferns. Among polystichoid ferns, apomixis evolved several times independently in three different clades.\n\nAlthough the evolutionary advantages of sexual reproduction are lost, apomixis can pass along traits fortuitous for evolutionary fitness. As Jens Clausen put itThe apomicts actually have discovered the effectiveness of mass production long before Mr Henry Ford applied it to the production of the automobile. ... Facultative apomixis ... does not prevent variation; rather, it multiplies certain varietal products.\n\nFacultative apomixis means that apomixis does not always occur, i.e. sexual reproduction can also happen. It appears likely that all apomixis in plants is facultative; in other words, that \"obligate apomixis\" is an artifact of insufficient observation (missing uncommon sexual reproduction).\n\nThe gametophytes of bryophytes, and less commonly ferns and lycopods can develop a group of cells that grow to look like a sporophyte of the species but with the ploidy level of the gametophyte, a phenomenon known as apogamy. The sporophytes of plants of these groups may also have the ability to form a plant that looks like a gametophyte but with the ploidy level of the sporophyte, a phenomenon known as apospory.\n\nSee also androgenesis and androclinesis described below, a type of male apomixis that occurs in a conifer, \"Cupressus dupreziana\".\n\nAgamospermy, asexual reproduction through seeds, occurs in flowering plants through many different mechanisms and a simple hierarchical classification of the different types is not possible. Consequently, there are almost as many different usages of terminology for apomixis in angiosperms as there are authors on the subject. For English speakers, Maheshwari 1950 is very influential. German speakers might prefer to consult Rutishauser 1967. Some older text books on the basis of misinformation (that the egg cell in a meiotically unreduced gametophyte can never be fertilized) attempted to reform the terminology to match the term parthenogenesis as it is used in zoology, and this continues to cause much confusion.\n\nAgamospermy occurs mainly in two forms: In \"gametophytic apomixis\", the embryo arises from an unfertilized egg cell (i.e. by parthenogenesis) in a gametophyte that was produced from a cell that did not complete meiosis. In \"adventitious embryony\" (sporophytic apomixis), an embryo is formed directly (not from a gametophyte) from nucellus or integument tissue (see nucellar embryony).\n\nMaheshwari used the following simple classification of types of apomixis in flowering plants:\n\nGametophytic apomixis in flowering plants develops in several different ways. A megagametophyte develops with an egg cell within it that develops into an embryo through parthenogenesis. The central cell of the megagametophyte may require fertilization to form the endosperm, pseudogamous gametophytic apomixis, or in autonomous gametophytic apomixis fertilization is not required. \n\nConsiderable confusion has resulted because diplospory is often defined to involve the megaspore mother cell only, but a number of plant families have a multicellular archesporium and the megagametophyte could originate from another archesporium cell.\n\nDiplospory is further subdivided according to how the megagametophyte forms:\n\nApomixis occurs in at least 33 families of flowering plants, and has evolved multiple times from sexual relatives. Apomictic species or individual plants often have a hybrid origin, and are usually polyploid.\n\nIn plants with both apomictic and meiotic embryology, the proportion of the different types can differ at different times of year, and photoperiod can also change the proportion. It appears unlikely that there are any truly completely apomictic plants, as low rates of sexual reproduction have been found in several species that were previously thought to be entirely apomictic.\n\nThe genetic control of apomixis can involve a single genetic change that affects all the major developmental components, formation of the megagametophyte, parthenogenesis of the egg cell, and endosperm development. However, the timing of the various developmental processes is critical to successful development of an apomictic seed, and the timing can be affected by multiple genetic factors.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28231075", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28231075", "title": "Arthur Betts (footballer, born 1886)", "text": "Arthur Betts (footballer, born 1886)\n\nArthur Charles Betts (2 January 1886 – 1967) was an English association footballer. He played as a left back in the Football League, most notably Derby County, as well as in the Southern League with Watford. In 1911–12, Betts won the Second Division with Derby.\n\nBorn in Scunthorpe, Lincolnshire, Betts started his career at North Lindsey, before joining nearby Football League club Gainsborough Trinity in 1905. During this time he also represented Lincolnshire at county representative level. In 1907 Betts moved south, joining Hertfordshire side Watford of the Southern League, replacing outgoing left back Joe Brooks. Averaging over 30 games per season, he stayed at Watford for three seasons, before returning north for brief spells at Gainsborough Trinity and Newcastle United.\n\nAfter failing to make Newcastle's first team, Betts transferred to Derby County in October 1911. He featured for Derby regularly, receiving a medal as they won the 1911–12 Football League Second Division, and with it a promotion to the First Division. Betts stayed at Derby until 1914, joining Hull City. Following the First World War, he finished his football career as a player at Scunthorpe & Lindsey United, a player-coach at Normanby Park Steelworks, and a coach at Lysaght Sports.\n"}
{"id": "99398", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=99398", "title": "Bad trip", "text": "Bad trip\n\nA bad trip (drug-induced temporary psychosis or psychedelic crisis or emergence phenomenon) is a frightening and unpleasant experience triggered by psychoactive drugs, especially psychedelic drugs such as acid and magic mushrooms.\n\nThe features of a bad trip can range from feelings of mild anxiety and alienation to profoundly disturbing states of abject terror, ultimate entrapment, or complete loss of self-identity. Psychedelic specialists in the therapeutic community do not necessarily consider unpleasant experiences as threatening or negative, instead focusing on their potential to greatly benefit the user when properly resolved. Bad trips can be exacerbated by the inexperience or irresponsibility of the user or the lack of proper preparation and environment for the trip, and are reflective of unresolved psychological tensions triggered during the course of the experience.\n\nIt is suggested that, at a minimum, such crises be managed by preventing the individual from harming oneself or others by whatever means necessary up to and including physical restraint, providing the patient with a safe and comfortable space, and supervising the intake until all effects of the drug have completely worn off.\n\nA multitude of reactions can occur during a psychedelic crisis. Some users may experience a general sense of fear, panic or anxiety. A user may be overwhelmed with the disconnection many psychedelics cause, and fear that they are going insane or will never return to reality. The fear that is felt during a bad trip has a psychotic character, coming as it does from within the mind of the tripper and not from the external environment. For example, during Albert Hoffman's first acid trip, he hallucinated that his neighbour had turned into a malignant demon, when in fact she was only a friendly woman trying to help him.\n\nA person having a bad trip might try to harm themselves or others around them. They may experience suicidal ideation, or make full-blown suicide attempts. Because of the magnification of emotions they induce, many psychedelics could possibly cause thoughts of death and intensely adverse reactions in some users. Users can believe that their death is imminent or that the very universe itself is collapsing. Rapidly accelerated aging of other people may be experienced, perpetuating the aforementioned fears to an even greater degree.\n\nSome users may experience disorientation. The normal views of time, space and person can be substantially altered, causing fear. Some can worsen their condition by trying to fight the psychedelic experience after embarkment. There can be illusions of insects crawling over or into one's self, or of being in dirty places such as sewers. Some users may experience a feeling of losing control of their minds due to persistent racing thoughts.\n\nIn rare cases an apparent complete loss of control can be observed, with an individual's behavior tending to exhibit a temporary loss of normal understanding of navigation of one's physical environment. An individual in such a state can cause accidental harm to him or herself and to others, and can include behavior such as flailing about or even running into traffic, or, as such a state may not necessarily involve physical movement, may involve induction of a catatonic state or the expression of seemingly random vocalizations i.e. not limited to true speech. This may be caused by a failure to recognize external stimuli for what it is. Stanislav Grof explains this feature:\n\nThe effects of psychedelics vary widely from one individual to the next, and from one experience to the next. Sometimes individuals under the influence of such drugs do not understand that they have taken a drug and believe that they will never return to their ordinary, sober perception, though some can be reminded verbally. In cases where the individual cannot be kept safe, hospitalization may be useful, though the value of this practice for individuals not mentally ill is disputed by proponents of the investigative or recreational use of psychoactive compounds. Psychosis is exacerbated in individuals already suffering from this condition.\n\nGenerally, a person experiencing a psychedelic crisis can be helped either to resolve the impasse, to bypass it, or, failing that, to terminate the experience. A person's thoughts before taking or while under the influence of the psychedelic, often greatly influence the trip.\n\nMedical treatment consists of supportive therapy and minimization of external stimuli. In some cases, sedation is used when necessary to control self-destructive behavior, or when hyperthermia occurs. Diazepam is the most frequently used sedative for such treatment, but other benzodiazepines such as lorazepam are also effective. Such sedatives will only decrease fear and anxiety, but will not subdue hallucinations. In severe cases, antipsychotics such as haloperidol can reduce or stop hallucinations. Haloperidol is effective against drug-induced psychosis caused by LSD and other tryptamines, amphetamines, ketamine and phencyclidine.\n\nAccording to Timothy Leary, a crisis can be a result of wrong set and setting. Leary advised that users of psychedelics be sure that they are comfortable before taking the drugs. Leary claimed that the frequency of difficult trips was highly exaggerated by anecdotes and fabrications in the popular press.\n\nAlternatively, psychiatrist R. D. Laing held that psychedelic crises and other such extreme experiences, drug-induced or not, were not necessarily artificial terrors to be suppressed but rather signs of internal conflict and opportunities for self-healing. The greater the pain and pathos of an experience, the greater the urgency to explore and resolve it, rather than attempt to cover it up or dismiss it.\n\nLikewise, Stanislav Grof suggested that painful and difficult experiences during a trip could be a result of the mind reliving experiences associated with birth, and that experiences of imprisonment, eschatological terror, or suffering far beyond anything imaginable in a normal state, if seen through to conclusion, often resolve into emotional, intellectual and spiritual breakthroughs. From this perspective, interrupting a bad trip, while initially seen as beneficial, can trap the tripper in unresolved psychological states. Grof also suggests that many cathartic experiences within psychedelic states, while not necessarily crises, may be the effects of consciousness entering a perinatal space.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20791868", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20791868", "title": "Billy Bowen", "text": "Billy Bowen\n\nWilliam Bowen (6 December 1897 - 19 December 1960) was a Welsh dual-code rugby union, and professional rugby league footballer of the 1910s and 1920s. He played representative level rugby union (RU) for Wales, winning 6 caps, and at club level for Swansea, as a fly half, and club level rugby league (RL) for Leeds, as a .\n\nBowen was first selected to play for Wales during the 1921 Five Nations Championship in a game against Scotland. Under the captaincy of Tommy Vile, Wales lost the match in a match that was nearly abandoned due to crowd problems, when the St Helen's spectators kept pushing onto the pitch. Bowen was re-selected for the next game of the tournament this time against France in a victory at the Cardiff Arms Park, though he lost his place for the final match in Ireland.\n\nBowen was reselected to represent his country for the entirety of the 1922 Five Nations Championship in which Wales won the tournament, winning three of the games and drawing against Scotland. Bowen scored two tries during the tournament; the first in the opening Welsh victory over England when Bowen was one of eight different players to score a try for Wales. His second was more important, as it allowed the draw with Scotland snatched by Wales when Islwyn Evans scored a drop goal in the last two minutes.\n\nBowen may have been awarded more caps for Wales, but he 'Went North' in 1922, switching codes to professional rugby league, joining Leeds RLFC. Bowen made his début for Leeds against Bradford Northern at Headingley Rugby Stadium, Leeds on Saturday 2 September 1922. Bowen played right-, i.e. number 3, and scored a try in Leeds' 28-3 victory over Hull F.C. in the 1922–23 Challenge Cup Final during the 1922-23 season at Belle Vue, Wakefield, the only occasion the Challenge Cup final has ever been staged at Belle Vue. The Leeds backline in the early 1920s was known as the Busy Bs, as it included; Jim Bacon, Arthur Binks, Billy Bowen, Joe Brittain, and Harold Buck.\n\nWales\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1197818", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1197818", "title": "Bird strike", "text": "Bird strike\n\nA bird strike—sometimes called birdstrike, bird ingestion (for an engine), bird hit, or bird aircraft strike hazard (BASH)—is a collision between an airborne animal (usually a bird or bat) and a manmade vehicle, especially an aircraft. The term is also used for bird deaths resulting from collisions with structures such as power lines, towers and wind turbines (see Bird–skyscraper collisions and Towerkill).\n\nBird strikes are a significant threat to flight safety, and have caused a number of accidents with human casualties. There are over 13,000 bird strikes annually in the US alone. However, the number of major accidents involving civil aircraft is quite low and it has been estimated that there is only about 1 accident resulting in human death in one billion (10) flying hours. The majority of bird strikes (65%) cause little damage to the aircraft; however the collision is usually fatal to the bird(s) involved.\n\nMost accidents occur when a bird (or birds) collides with the windscreen or is sucked into the engines of mechanical aircraft. These cause annual damages that have been estimated at $400 million within the United States of America alone and up to $1.2 billion to commercial aircraft worldwide. In addition to property damage, collisions between man-made structures and conveyances and birds is a contributing factor, among many others, to the worldwide decline of many avian species.\n\nThe International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO) reported 65,139 bird strikes for 2011–14, and the Federal Aviation Authority counted 177,269 wildlife strike reports on civil aircraft between 1990 and 2015, growing 38% in 7 years from 2009 to 2015. Birds accounted for 97%.\n\nBird strikes happen most often during takeoff or landing, or during low altitude flight. However, bird strikes have also been reported at high altitudes, some as high as above the ground. Bar-headed geese have been seen flying as high as above sea level. An aircraft over the Ivory Coast collided with a Rüppell's vulture at the altitude of , the current record avian height. The majority of bird collisions occur near or on airports (90%, according to the ICAO) during takeoff, landing and associated phases. According to the FAA wildlife hazard management manual for 2005, less than 8% of strikes occur above and 61% occur at less than .\n\nThe point of impact is usually any forward-facing edge of the vehicle such as a wing leading edge, nose cone, jet engine cowling or engine inlet.\n\nJet engine ingestion is extremely serious due to the rotation speed of the engine fan and engine design. As the bird strikes a fan blade, that blade can be displaced into another blade and so forth, causing a cascading failure. Jet engines are particularly vulnerable during the takeoff phase when the engine is turning at a very high speed and the plane is at a low altitude where birds are more commonly found.\n\nThe force of the impact on an aircraft depends on the weight of the animal and the speed difference and direction at the impact. The energy of the impact increases with the square of the speed difference. Hence a low-speed impact of a small bird on a car windshield causes relatively little damage. High speed impacts, as with jet aircraft, can cause considerable damage and even catastrophic failure to the vehicle. The energy of a bird moving at a relative velocity of approximately equals the energy of a weight dropped from a height of . However, according to the FAA only 15% of strikes (ICAO 11%) actually result in damage to the aircraft.\n\nBird strikes can damage vehicle components, or injure passengers. Flocks of birds are especially dangerous, and can lead to multiple strikes, and damage. Depending on the damage, aircraft at low altitudes or during take off and landing often cannot recover in time. US Airways Flight 1549 is a classic example of this. The engines on the Airbus A320 used on that flight were torn apart by multiple bird strikes at low altitude. There was no time to make a safe landing at an airport, forcing a water landing in the Hudson River.\n\nRemains of the bird, termed \"snarge\", are sent to identification centers where forensic techniques may be used to identify the species involved. These samples need to be taken carefully by trained personnel to ensure proper analysis and reduce the risks of infection (zoonoses).\nSacramento International Airport has had more bird strikes (1,300 collisions between birds and jets between 1990 and 2007, causing an estimated $1.6 million in damage) than any other California airport. Sacramento International Airport has the most bird strikes of any airport in the west and sixth among airports in the US, according to the FAA, as it is located along the Pacific Flyway, a major bird migration path.\n\nMost bird strikes involve large birds with big populations, particularly geese and gulls in the United States. In parts of the US, Canada geese and migratory snow geese populations have risen significantly while feral Canada geese and greylag geese have increased in parts of Europe, increasing the risk of these large birds to aircraft. In other parts of the world, large birds of prey such as \"Gyps\" vultures and \"Milvus\" kites are often involved. In the US, reported strikes are mainly from waterfowl (30%), gulls (22%), raptors (20%), and pigeons and doves (7%). The Smithsonian Institution's Feather Identification Laboratory has identified turkey vultures as the most damaging birds, followed by Canada geese and white pelicans, all of which are very large birds. In terms of frequency, the laboratory most commonly finds mourning doves and horned larks involved in the strike.\n\nThe largest numbers of strikes happen during the spring and fall migrations. Bird strikes above altitude are about 7 times more common at night than during the day during the bird migration season.\n\nLarge land animals, such as deer, can also be a problem to aircraft during takeoff and landing. Between 1990 and 2013, civil aircraft experienced more than 1,000 collisions with deer and 440 with coyotes.\n\nAn animal hazard reported from London Stansted Airport in England is rabbits: they get run over by ground vehicles and planes, and they pass large amounts of droppings, which attract mice, which attract owls, which become another birdstrike hazard.\n\nThere are three approaches to reduce the effect of bird strikes. The vehicles can be designed to be more \"bird resistant\", the birds can be moved out of the way of the vehicle, or the vehicle can be moved out of the way of the birds.\n\nMost large commercial jet engines include design features that ensure they can shut-down after \"ingesting\" a bird weighing up to . The engine does not have to survive the ingestion, just be safely shut down. This is a 'stand alone' requirement, \"i.e.\", the engine, not the aircraft, must pass the test. Multiple strikes (from hitting a bird flock) on twin engine jet aircraft are very serious events because they can disable multiple aircraft systems, requiring emergency action to land the aircraft, as in the January 15, 2009 forced ditching of US Airways Flight 1549.\n\nModern jet aircraft structures must be able to withstand one collision; the empennage (tail) must withstand one bird collision. Cockpit windows on jet aircraft must be able to withstand one bird collision without yielding or spalling.\n\nAt first, bird strike testing by manufacturers involved firing a bird carcass from a gas cannon and sabot system into the tested unit. The carcass was soon replaced with suitable density blocks, often gelatin, to ease testing. Current testing is mainly conducted with computer simulation, although final testing usually involves some physical experiments (see birdstrike simulator).\n\nMany jet engine manufacturers include white spirals in the centre of their engines. While on the ground this serves as an indicator to crew that the engine is running, in the air it appears as a white circle which discourages birds from flying into the engine.\n\nBased on US NTSB recommendation following the 2009 US Airways Flight 1549, the EASA in 2017, followed a year after by the FAA, proposed that engines should sustain a bird strike not only on takeoff where turbofans are turning at their fastest, but also in climb and descent when they turn more slowly; new regulations could apply for the Boeing NMA engines.\n\nThough there are many methods available to wildlife managers at airports, no single method will work in all instances and with all species. Wildlife management in the airport environment can be grouped into two broad categories: non-lethal and lethal. Integration of multiple non-lethal methods with lethal methods results in the most effective airfield wildlife management strategy.\n\nNon-lethal management can be further broken down into habitat manipulation, exclusion, visual, auditory, tactile, or chemical repellents, and relocation.\n\nOne of the primary reasons that wildlife is seen on airports is an abundance of food. Food resources on airports can be either removed or made less desirable. One of the most abundant food resources found on airports is turfgrass. This grass is planted to reduce runoff, control erosion, absorb jet wash, allow passage of emergency vehicles, and to be aesthetically pleasing (DeVault et al. 2013) However, turfgrass is a preferred food source for species of birds that pose serious risk to aircraft, chiefly the Canada goose (Branta canadensis). Turfgrass planted at airports should be a species that geese do not prefer (e.g. St. Augustine grass) and should be managed in such a way that reduces its attractiveness to other wildlife such as small rodents and raptors (Commander, Naval Installations Command 2010, DeVault et al. 2013). It has been recommended that turfgrass be maintained at a height of 7–14 inches through regular mowing and fertilization (U.S. Air Force 2004).\n\nWetlands are another major attractant of wildlife in the airport environment. They are of particular concern because they attract waterfowl which have a high potential to damage aircraft (Federal Aviation Administration 2013). With large areas of impervious surfaces, airports must employ methods to collect runoff and reduce its flow velocity. These best management practices often involve temporarily ponding runoff. Short of redesigning existing runoff control systems to include non-accessible water such as subsurface flow wetlands (DeVault et al. 2013), frequent drawdowns and covering of exposed water with floating covers and wire grids should be employed (International Civil Aviation Organization 1991). The implementation of covers and wire grids must not hinder emergency services.\n\nThough excluding birds from the entire airport environment is virtually impossible, it is possible to exclude deer and other mammals that constitute a small percentage of wildlife strikes. Three meter high fences made of chain link or woven wire, with barbed wire outriggers, are the most effective. When used as a perimeter fence, these fences also serve to keep unauthorized persons off of the airport (Seamans 2001). Realistically every fence must have gates. Gates that are left open allow deer and other mammals onto the airport. 4.6 meter long cattle guards have been shown to be effective at deterring deer up to 98% of the time (Belant et al. 1998).\n\nHangars with open superstructures often attract birds to nest and roost in. Hangar doors are often left open to increase ventilation especially in the evenings. Birds in hangars are in proximity to the airfield and their droppings are both a health and damage concern. Netting is often deployed across the superstructure of a hangar denying access to the rafters where the birds roost and nest while still allowing the hangar doors to remain open for ventilation and aircraft movements. Strip curtains and door netting may also be used but are subject to improper use (e.g. tying the strips to the side of the door) by the personnel in the hangar. (U.S. Air Force 2004, Commander, Naval Installations Command 2010).\n\nThere have been a variety of visual repellent and harassment techniques used in airport wildlife management. They include using birds of prey and dogs, effigies, and lasers. Birds of prey have been used with great effectiveness at landfills where there were large populations of feeding gulls (Cook et al. 2008). Dogs have also been used with success as visual deterrents and means of harassment for birds at airfields (DeVault et al. 2013). However airport wildlife managers must consider the risk of knowingly releasing animals in the airport environment. Both birds of prey and dogs must be monitored by a handler when deployed and must be cared for, when not deployed. Airport wildlife managers must consider the economics of these methods (Seamans 2001).\n\nEffigies of both predators and conspecifics have been used with success to disperse gulls and vultures. The effigies of conspecifics are often placed in unnatural positions where they can freely move with the wind. Effigies have been found to be the most effective in situations where the nuisance birds have other options (e.g. other forage, loafing, and roosting areas) available. Time to habituation varies. (Seamans et al. 2007, DeVault et al. 2013).\n\nLasers have been used with success to disperse several species of birds. However, lasers are species specific as certain species will only react to certain wavelengths. Lasers become more effective as ambient light levels decrease, thereby limiting effectiveness during daylight hours. Some species show a very short time to habituation (Airport Cooperative Research Program, 2011). The risks of lasers to aircrews must be evaluated when determining whether or not to deploy lasers on airfields. Southampton Airport utilises a laser device which disables the laser past a certain elevation, eliminating the risk of the beam being shone directly at aircraft and air traffic control tower (Southampton Airport 2014).\n\nAuditory repellents are commonly used in both agricultural and aviation contexts. Devices such as propane exploders (cannons), pyrotechnics, and bioacoustics are frequently deployed on airports. Propane exploders are capable of creating noises of approximately 130 decibels (Wildlife Control Supplies). They can be programmed to fire at designated intervals, can be remote controlled, or motion activated. Due to their stationary and often predictable nature, wildlife quickly become habituated to propane cannons. Lethal control may be used to extend the effectiveness of propane exploders (Washburn et al. 2006).\n\nPyrotechnics utilizing either an exploding shell or a screamer can effectively scare birds away from runways. They are commonly launched from a 12 gauge shotgun or a flare pistol, or from a wireless specialized launcher and as such, can be aimed allowing control personnel to \"steer\" the species that is being harassed. Birds show varying degrees of habituation to pyrotechnics. Studies have shown that lethal reinforcement of pyrotechnic harassment has extended its usefulness (Baxter and Allen 2008). Screamer type cartridges are still intact at the end of their flight (as opposed to exploding shells that destroy themselves) constituting a foreign object damage hazard and must be picked up. The use of pyrotechnics is considered \"take\" by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (USFWS) and USFWS must be consulted if federally threatened or endangered species could be affected. Pyrotechnics are a potential fire hazard and must be deployed judiciously in dry conditions (Commander, Naval Installations Command, 2010, Airport Cooperative Research Program 2011).\n\nBioacoustics, or the playing of conspecific distress or predator calls to frighten animals, is widely used. This method relies on the animal's evolutionary danger response (Airport Cooperative Research Program 2011).However, bioacoustics are species specific and birds may quickly become habituated to them and they should not be used as a primary means of control (U.S. Air Force 2004, Commander, Naval Installations Command 2010).\n\nSharpened spikes to deter perching and loafing are commonly used. Generally, large birds require different applications than small birds do (DeVault et al. 2013).\n\nThere are only two chemical bird repellents registered for use in the United States. They are methyl anthranilate and anthraquinone. Methyl anthranilate is a primary repellent that produces an immediate unpleasant sensation that is reflexive and does not have to be learned. As such it is most effective for transient populations of birds (DeVault et al. 2013). Methyl anthranilate has been used with great success at rapidly dispersing birds from flightlines at Homestead Air Reserve Station (Engeman et al. 2002). Anthraquinone is a secondary repellent that has a laxative effect that is not instantaneous. Because of this it is most effective on resident populations of wildlife that will have time to learn an aversive response (Izhaki 2002, DeVault et al. 2013).\n\nRelocation of raptors from airports is often considered preferable to lethal control methods by both biologists and the public. There are complex legal issues surrounding the capture and relocation of species protected by the Migratory Bird Treaty Act of 1918 and the Bald and Golden Eagle Protection Act of 1940. Prior to capture, proper permits must be obtained and the high mortality rates as well as the risk of disease transmission associated with relocation must be weighed. Between 2008 and 2010, U.S. Department of Agriculture Wildlife Services personnel relocated 606 red-tailed hawks from airports in the United States after the failure of multiple harassment attempts. The return rate of these hawks was 6%; however the relocation mortality rate for these hawks was never determined (DeVault et al. 2013).\n\nLethal wildlife control on airports falls into two categories: reinforcement of other non-lethal methods and population control.\n\nThe premise of effigies, pyrotechnics, and propane exploders is that there be a perceived immediate danger to the species to be dispersed. Initially, the sight of an unnaturally positioned effigy or the sound of pyrotechnics or exploders is enough to elicit a danger response from wildlife. As wildlife become habituated to non-lethal methods the culling of small numbers of wildlife in the presence of conspecifics can restore the danger response (Baxter and Allan 2008, Cook et al. 2008, Commander, Naval Installations Command 2010, DeVault et al. 2013).\n\nUnder certain circumstances lethal wildlife control is needed to control the population of a species. This control can be localized or regional. Localized population control is often used to control species that are residents of the airfield such as deer that have bypassed the perimeter fence. In this instance sharpshooting would be highly effective, such as is seen at Chicago O'Hare International Airport (DeVault et al. 2013).\nRegional population control has been used on species that cannot be excluded from the airport environment. A nesting colony of laughing gulls at Jamaica Bay Wildlife Refuge contributed to 98–315 bird strikes per year, in 1979–1992, at adjacent John F. Kennedy International Airport (JFK). Though JFK had an active bird management program that precluded birds from feeding and loafing on the airport, it did not stop them from overflying the airport to other feeding sites. U.S. Department of Agriculture Wildlife Services personnel began shooting all gulls that flew over the airport, hypothesizing that eventually the gulls would alter their flight patterns. They shot 28,352 gulls in two years (approximately half of the population at Jamaica Bay and 5–6% of the nationwide population per year). Strikes with laughing gulls decreased by 89% by 1992. However this was more a function of the population reduction than the gulls altering their flight pattern (Dolbeer et al. 1993, Dolbeer et al. 2003, DeVault et al. 2013).\n\nPilots should not take off or land in the presence of wildlife and should avoid migratory routes, wildlife reserves, estuaries and other sites where birds may congregate. When operating in the presence of bird flocks, pilots should seek to climb above as rapidly as possible as most birdstrikes occur below . Additionally, pilots should slow down their aircraft when confronted with birds. The energy that must be dissipated in the collision is approximately the relative kinetic energy (formula_1) of the bird, defined by the equation formula_2 where formula_3 is the mass of the bird and formula_4 is the relative velocity (the difference of the velocities of the bird and the plane, resulting in a lower absolute value if they are flying in the same direction and higher absolute value if they are flying in opposite directions). Therefore, the speed of the aircraft is much more important than the size of the bird when it comes to reducing energy transfer in a collision. The same can be said for jet engines: the slower the rotation of the engine, the less energy which will be imparted onto the engine at collision.\n\nThe body density of the bird is also a parameter that influences the amount of damage caused.\n\nThe US Military Avian Hazard Advisory System (AHAS) uses near real time data from the 148 CONUS based National Weather Service Next Generation Weather Radar (NEXRAD or WSR 88-D) system to provide current bird hazard conditions for published military low-level routes, ranges, and military operating areas (MOAs). Additionally AHAS incorporates weather forecast data with the Bird Avoidance Model (BAM) to predict soaring bird activity within the next 24 hours and then defaults to the BAM for planning purposes when activity is scheduled outside the 24-hour window. The BAM is a static historical hazard model based on many years of bird distribution data from Christmas Bird Counts (CBC), Breeding Bird Surveys (BBS), and National Wildlife Refuge Data. The BAM also incorporates potentially hazardous bird attractions such as landfills and golf courses. AHAS is now an integral part of military low-level mission planning, aircrew being able to access the current bird hazard conditions at www.usahas.com. AHAS will provide relative risk assessments for the planned mission and give aircrew the opportunity to select a less hazardous route should the planned route be rated severe or moderate. Prior to 2003, the US Air Force BASH Team bird strike database indicated that approximately 25% of all strikes were associated with low-level routes and bombing ranges. More importantly these strikes accounted for more than 50% of all of the reported damage costs. After a decade of using AHAS for avoiding routes with severe ratings, the strike percentage associated with low-level flight operations has been reduced to 12% and associated costs cut in half.\n\nAvian radar is an important tool for aiding in bird strike mitigation as part of overall safety management systems at civilian and military airfields. Properly designed and equipped avian radars can track thousands of birds simultaneously in real-time, night and day, through 360° of coverage, out to ranges of 10 km and beyond for flocks, updating every target's position (longitude, latitude, altitude), speed, heading, and size every 2–3 seconds. Data from these systems can be used to generate information products ranging from real-time threat alerts to historical analyses of bird activity patterns in both time and space. The United States Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) and the United States Department of Defense (DOD) have conducted extensive science-based field testing and validation of commercial avian radar systems for civil and military applications, respectively. The FAA used evaluations of commercial 3D avian radar systems developed and marketed by Accipiter Radar as the basis for FAA Advisory Circular 150/5220-25 and a guidance letter on using Airport Improvement Program funds to acquire avian radar systems at Part 139 airports. Similarly, the DOD-sponsored Integration and Validation of Avian Radars (IVAR) project evaluated the functional and performance characteristics of Accipiter® avian radars under operational conditions at Navy, Marine Corps, and Air Force airfields. Accipiter avian radar systems operating at Seattle-Tacoma International Airport, Chicago O'Hare International Airport, and Marine Corps Air Station Cherry Point made significant contributions to the evaluations carried out in the aforementioned FAA and DoD initiatives. Additional scientific and technical papers on avian radar systems are listed below, and on the Accipiter Radar web site.\n\nA US company, DeTect, in 2003, developed the only production model bird radar in operational use for real-time, tactical bird–aircraft strike avoidance by air traffic controllers. These systems are operational at both commercial airports and military airfields. The system has widely used technology available for bird–aircraft strike hazard (BASH) management and for real time detection, tracking and alerting of hazardous bird activity at commercial airports, military airfields and military training and bombing ranges. After extensive evaluation and on-site testing, MERLIN technology was chosen by NASA and was ultimately used for detecting and tracking dangerous vulture activity during the 22 space shuttle launches from 2006 to the conclusion of the program in 2011. The US Air Force has contracted DeTect since 2003 to provide the Avian Hazard Advisory System (AHAS)previously mentioned.\n\nTNO, a Dutch R&D Institute, has developed the successful ROBIN (Radar Observation of Bird Intensity) for the Royal Netherlands Airforce. ROBIN is a near real-time monitoring system for flight movements of birds. ROBIN identifies flocks of birds within the signals of large radar systems. This information is used to give Air Force pilots warning during landing and take-off. Years of observation of bird migration with ROBIN have also provided a better insight into bird migration behaviour, which has had an influence on averting collisions with birds, and therefore on flight safety. Since the implementation of the ROBIN system at the Royal Netherlands Airforce the number of collisions between birds and aircraft in the vicinity of military airbases has decreased by more than 50%.\n\nThere are no civil aviation counterparts to the above military strategies. Some experimentation with small portable radar units has taken place at some airports. However, no standard has been adopted for radar warning nor has any governmental policy regarding warnings been implemented.\n\nThe Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) estimates bird strikes cost US aviation 400 million dollars annually and have resulted in over 200 worldwide deaths since 1988. In the United Kingdom, the Central Science Laboratory estimates that worldwide, the cost of birdstrikes to airlines is around US$1.2 billion annually. This cost includes direct repair cost and lost revenue opportunities while the damaged aircraft is out of service. Estimating that 80% of bird strikes are unreported, there were 4,300 bird strikes listed by the United States Air Force and 5,900 by US civil aircraft in 2003.\n\nThe first reported bird strike was by Orville Wright in 1905. According to the Wright Brothers' diaries, \"Orville … flew 4,751 meters in 4 minutes 45 seconds, four complete circles. Twice passed over fence into Beard's cornfield. Chased flock of birds for two rounds and killed one which fell on top of the upper surface and after a time fell off when swinging a sharp curve.\"\n\nDuring the 1911 Paris to Madrid air race, French pilot Eugene Gilbert encountered an angry mother eagle over the Pyrenees. Gilbert, flying an open-cockpit Bleriot XI, was able to ward off the large bird by firing pistol shots at it but did not kill it.\n\nThe first recorded bird strike fatality was reported in 1912 when aero-pioneer Cal Rodgers collided with a gull which became jammed in his aircraft control cables. He crashed at Long Beach, California, was pinned under the wreckage, and drowned.\n\nThe greatest loss of life directly linked to a bird strike was on October 4, 1960, when a Lockheed L-188 Electra, flying from Boston as Eastern Air Lines Flight 375, flew through a flock of common starlings during take-off, damaging all four engines. The aircraft crashed into Boston harbor shortly after takeoff, with 62 fatalities out of 72 passengers. Subsequently, minimum bird ingestion standards for jet engines were developed by the FAA.\n\nNASA astronaut Theodore Freeman was killed in 1964 when a goose shattered the plexiglass cockpit canopy of his Northrop T-38 Talon. Shards were ingested by the engines, leading to a fatal crash.\n\nIn 1988 Ethiopian Airlines Flight 604 sucked pigeons into both engines during takeoff and then crashed, killing 35 passengers.\nIn 1995, a Dassault Falcon 20 crashed at a Paris airport during an emergency landing attempt after sucking lapwings into an engine, which caused an engine failure and a fire in the airplane's fuselage; all 10 people on board were killed.\n\nOn September 22, 1995, a U.S. Air Force Boeing E-3 Sentry AWACS aircraft (Callsign Yukla 27, serial number 77-0354), crashed shortly after takeoff from Elmendorf AFB. The aircraft lost power in both port side engines after these engines ingested several Canada geese during takeoff. It crashed about from the runway, killing all 24 crew members on board.\n\nOn November 28, 2004, the nose landing gear of KLM Flight 1673, a Boeing 737-400, struck a bird during takeoff at Amsterdam Airport Schiphol. The incident was reported to air traffic control, the landing gear was raised normally, and the flight continued normally to its destination. Upon touching down at Barcelona International Airport, the aircraft started deviating to the left of the runway centreline. The crew applied right rudder, braking, and the nose wheel steering tiller but could not keep the aircraft on the runway. After it veered off the paved surface of the runway at about 100 knots, the jet went through an area of soft sand. The nose landing gear leg collapsed and the left main landing gear leg detached from its fittings shortly before the aircraft came to a stop perched over the edge of a drainage canal. All 140 passengers and six crew evacuated safely, but the aircraft itself had to be written off. The cause was discovered to be a broken cable in the nose wheel steering system caused by the bird collision. Contributing to the snapped cable was the improper application of grease during routine maintenance which led to severe wear of the cable.\n\nIn April 2007, a Thomsonfly Boeing 757 from Manchester Airport to Lanzarote Airport suffered a bird strike when at least one bird, supposedly a crow, was ingested by the starboard engine. The plane landed safely back at Manchester Airport a while later. The incident was captured by two plane spotters on opposite sides of the airport, as well as the emergency calls picked up by a plane spotter's radio.\n\nThe Space Shuttle Discovery also hit a bird (a vulture) during the launch of STS-114 on July 26, 2005, although the collision occurred soon after lift-off and at low speed, with no obvious damage to the shuttle.\n\nOn November 10, 2008, Ryanair Flight 4102 from Frankfurt to Rome made an emergency landing at Ciampino Airport after multiple bird strikes caused both engines to fail. After touchdown, the left main landing gear collapsed, and the aircraft briefly veered off the runway. Passengers and crew were evacuated through the starboard emergency exits.\n\nOn January 4, 2009, a Sikorsky S-76 helicopter hit a red-tailed hawk in Louisiana. The hawk hit the helicopter just above the windscreen. The impact forced the activation of the engine fire suppression control handles, retarding the throttles and causing the engines to lose power. Eight of the nine persons on board died in the subsequent crash; the survivor, a passenger, was seriously injured.\n\nOn January 15, 2009, US Airways Flight 1549 from LaGuardia Airport to Charlotte/Douglas International Airport ditched into the Hudson River after experiencing a loss of both turbines. It is suspected that the engine failure was caused by running into a flock of geese at an altitude of about , shortly after takeoff. All 150 passengers and 5 crew members were safely evacuated after a successful water landing. On May 28, 2010, the NTSB published its final report into the accident.\n\nFlying insect strikes, like bird strikes, have been encountered by pilots since aircraft were invented. Future United States Air Force general Henry H. Arnold, as a young officer, nearly lost control of his Wright Model B in 1911 after a bug flew into his eye while he was not wearing goggles, distracting him.\n\nIn 1986 a Boeing B-52 Stratofortress on a low-level training mission entered a swarm of locusts. The insects' impacts on the aircraft's windscreens rendered the crew unable to see, forcing them to abort the mission and fly using the aircraft's instruments alone. The aircraft eventually landed safely. In 2010 the Australian Civil Aviation Safety Authority (CASA) issued a warning to pilots about the potential dangers of flying through a locust swarm. CASA warned that the insects could cause loss of engine power and loss of visibility, and blocking of an aircraft's pitot tubes, causing inaccurate airspeed readings.\n\nBug strikes can also affect the operation of machinery on the ground, especially motorcycles. The team on the US TV show \"MythBusters\" – in a 2010 episode entitled \"Bug Special\" – concluded that death could occur if a motorist were hit by a flying insect of sufficient mass in a vulnerable part of the body. Anecdotal evidence from motorcyclists supports pain, bruising, soreness, stings, and loss of seat caused by collision with an insect at speed.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48927", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48927", "title": "Camille Saint-Saëns", "text": "Camille Saint-Saëns\n\nCharles-Camille Saint-Saëns (; 9 October 183516 December 1921) was a French composer, organist, conductor and pianist of the Romantic era. His best-known works include Introduction and Rondo Capriccioso (1863), the Second Piano Concerto (1868), the First Cello Concerto (1872), \"Danse macabre\" (1874), the opera \"Samson and Delilah\" (1877), the Third Violin Concerto (1880), the Third (\"Organ\") Symphony (1886) and \"The Carnival of the Animals\" (1886).\n\nSaint-Saëns was a musical prodigy; he made his concert debut at the age of ten. After studying at the Paris Conservatoire he followed a conventional career as a church organist, first at Saint-Merri, Paris and, from 1858, La Madeleine, the official church of the French Empire. After leaving the post twenty years later, he was a successful freelance pianist and composer, in demand in Europe and the Americas.\n\nAs a young man, Saint-Saëns was enthusiastic for the most modern music of the day, particularly that of Schumann, Liszt and Wagner, although his own compositions were generally within a conventional classical tradition. He was a scholar of musical history, and remained committed to the structures worked out by earlier French composers. This brought him into conflict in his later years with composers of the impressionist and dodecaphonic schools of music; although there were neoclassical elements in his music, foreshadowing works by Stravinsky and Les Six, he was often regarded as a reactionary in the decades around the time of his death.\n\nSaint-Saëns held only one teaching post, at the École de Musique Classique et Religieuse in Paris, and remained there for less than five years. It was nevertheless important in the development of French music: his students included Gabriel Fauré, among whose own later pupils was Maurice Ravel. Both of them were strongly influenced by Saint-Saëns, whom they revered as a genius.\n\nSaint-Saëns was born in Paris, the only child of Jacques-Joseph-Victor Saint-Saëns (1798–1835), an official in the French Ministry of the Interior, and Françoise-Clémence, \"née\" Collin. Victor Saint-Saëns was of Norman ancestry, and his wife was from an Haute-Marne family; their son, born in the Rue du Jardinet in the 6th arrondissement of Paris, and baptised at the nearby church of Saint-Sulpice, always considered himself a true Parisian. Less than two months after the christening, Victor Saint-Saëns died of consumption on the first anniversary of his marriage. The young Camille was taken to the country for the sake of his health, and for two years lived with a nurse at Corbeil, to the south of Paris.\nWhen Saint-Saëns was brought back to Paris he lived with his mother and her widowed aunt, Charlotte Masson. Before he was three years old he displayed perfect pitch and enjoyed picking out tunes on the piano. His great-aunt taught him the basics of pianism, and when he was seven he became a pupil of Camille-Marie Stamaty, a former pupil of Friedrich Kalkbrenner. Stamaty required his students to play while resting their forearms on a bar situated in front of the keyboard, so that all the pianist's power came from the hands and fingers rather than the arms, which, Saint-Saëns later wrote, was good training. Clémence Saint-Saëns, well aware of her son's precocious talent, did not wish him to become famous too young. The music critic Harold C. Schonberg wrote of Saint-Saëns in 1969, \"It is not generally realized that he was the most remarkable child prodigy in history, and that includes Mozart.\" The boy gave occasional performances for small audiences from the age of five, but it was not until he was ten that he made his official public debut, at the Salle Pleyel, in a programme that included Mozart's Piano Concerto in B (K450), and Beethoven's Third Piano Concerto. Through Stamaty's influence, Saint-Saëns was introduced to the composition professor Pierre Maleden and the organ teacher Alexandre Pierre François Boëly. From the latter he acquired a lifelong love of the music of Bach, which was then little known in France.\n\nAs a schoolboy Saint-Saëns was outstanding in many subjects. In addition to his musical prowess, he distinguished himself in the study of French literature, Latin and Greek, divinity, and mathematics. His interests included philosophy, archaeology and astronomy, of which, particularly the last, he remained a talented amateur in later life.\nIn 1848, at the age of thirteen, Saint-Saëns was admitted to the Paris Conservatoire, France's foremost music academy. The director, Daniel Auber, had succeeded Luigi Cherubini in 1842, and brought a more relaxed regime than that of his martinet predecessor, though the curriculum remained conservative. Students, even outstanding pianists like Saint-Saëns, were encouraged to specialise in organ studies, because a career as a church organist was seen to offer more opportunities than that of a solo pianist. His organ professor was François Benoist, whom Saint-Saëns considered a mediocre organist but a first-rate teacher; his pupils included Adolphe Adam, César Franck, Charles Alkan, Louis Lefébure-Wély and Georges Bizet. In 1851 Saint-Saëns won the Conservatoire's top prize for organists, and in the same year he began formal composition studies. His professor was a protégé of Cherubini, Fromental Halévy, whose pupils included Charles Gounod and Bizet.\n\nSaint-Saëns's student compositions included a symphony in A major (1850) and a choral piece, \"Les Djinns\" (1850), after an eponymous poem by Victor Hugo. He competed for France's premier musical award, the Prix de Rome, in 1852 but was unsuccessful. Auber believed that the prize should have gone to Saint-Saëns, considering him to have more promise than the winner, Léonce Cohen, who made little mark during the rest of his career. In the same year Saint-Saëns had greater success in a competition organised by the Société Sainte-Cécile, Paris, with his \"Ode à Sainte-Cécile\", for which the judges unanimously voted him the first prize. The first piece the composer acknowledged as a mature work and gave an opus number was \"Trois Morceaux\" for harmonium (1852).\n\nOn leaving the Conservatoire in 1853, Saint-Saëns accepted the post of organist at the ancient Parisian church of Saint-Merri near the Hôtel de Ville. The parish was substantial, with 26,000 parishioners; in a typical year there were more than two hundred weddings, the organist's fees from which, together with fees for funerals and his modest basic stipend, gave Saint-Saëns a comfortable income. The organ, the work of François-Henri Clicquot, had been badly damaged in the aftermath of the French Revolution and imperfectly restored. The instrument was adequate for church services but not for the ambitious recitals that many high-profile Parisian churches offered. With enough spare time to pursue his career as a pianist and composer, Saint-Saëns composed what became his opus 2, the Symphony in E (1853). This work, with military fanfares and augmented brass and percussion sections, caught the mood of the times in the wake of the popular rise to power of Napoleon III and the restoration of the French Empire. The work brought the composer another first prize from the Société Sainte-Cécile.\n\nAmong the musicians who were quick to spot Saint-Saëns's talent were the composers Gioachino Rossini, Hector Berlioz and Franz Liszt, and the influential singer Pauline Viardot, who all encouraged him in his career. In early 1858 Saint-Saëns moved from Saint-Merri to the high-profile post of organist of La Madeleine, the official church of the Empire; Liszt heard him playing there and declared him the greatest organist in the world.\n\nAlthough in later life he had a reputation for outspoken musical conservatism, in the 1850s Saint-Saëns supported and promoted the most modern music of the day, including that of Liszt, Robert Schumann and Richard Wagner. Unlike many French composers of his own and the next generation, Saint-Saëns, for all his enthusiasm for and knowledge of Wagner's operas, was not influenced by him in his own compositions. He commented, \"I admire deeply the works of Richard Wagner in spite of their bizarre character. They are superior and powerful, and that is sufficient for me. But I am not, I have never been, and I shall never be of the Wagnerian religion.\"\n\nIn 1861 Saint-Saëns accepted his only post as a teacher, at the École de Musique Classique et Religieuse, Paris, which Louis Niedermeyer had established in 1853 to train first-rate organists and choirmasters for the churches of France. Niedermeyer himself was professor of piano; when he died in March 1861, Saint-Saëns was appointed to take charge of piano studies. He scandalised some of his more austere colleagues by introducing his students to contemporary music, including that of Schumann, Liszt and Wagner. His best-known pupil, Gabriel Fauré, recalled in old age:\n\nSaint-Saëns further enlivened the academic regime by writing, and composing incidental music for, a one-act farce performed by the students (including André Messager). He conceived his best-known piece, \"The Carnival of the Animals\", with his students in mind, but did not finish composing it until 1886, more than twenty years after he left the Niedermeyer school.\n\nIn 1864 Saint-Saëns caused some surprise by competing a second time for the Prix de Rome. Many in musical circles were puzzled by his decision to enter the competition again, now that he was establishing a reputation as a soloist and composer. He was once more unsuccessful. Berlioz, one of the judges, wrote:\n\nAccording to the musical scholar Jean Gallois, it was apropos of this episode that Berlioz made his well-known \"bon mot\" about Saint-Saëns, \"He knows everything, but lacks inexperience\" (\"Il sait tout, mais il manque d'inexpérience\"). The winner, Victor Sieg, had a career no more notable than that of the 1852 winner, but Saint-Saëns's biographer Brian Rees speculates that the judges may \"have been seeking signs of genius in the midst of tentative effort and error, and considered that Saint-Saëns had reached his summit of proficiency\". The suggestion that Saint-Saëns was more proficient than inspired dogged his career and posthumous reputation. He himself wrote, \"Art is intended to create beauty and character. Feeling only comes afterwards and art can very well do without it. In fact, it is very much better off when it does.\" The biographer Jessica Duchen writes that he was \"a troubled man who preferred not to betray the darker side of his soul\". The critic and composer Jeremy Nicholas observes that this reticence has led many to underrate the music; he quotes such slighting remarks as \"Saint-Saëns is the only great composer who wasn't a genius\", and \"Bad music well written\".\nWhile teaching at the Niedermeyer school Saint-Saëns put less of his energy into composing and performing, but after he left in 1865 he pursued both aspects of his career with vigour. In 1867 his cantata \"Les noces de Prométhée\" beat more than a hundred other entries to win the composition prize of the Grande Fête Internationale in Paris, for which the jury included Auber, Berlioz, Gounod, Rossini and Giuseppe Verdi. In 1868 he premiered the first of his orchestral works to gain a permanent place in the repertoire, his Second Piano Concerto. Playing this and other works he became a noted figure in the musical life of Paris and other cities in France and abroad during the 1860s.\n\nIn 1870, concerned at the dominance of German music and the lack of opportunity for young French composers to have their works played, Saint-Saëns and Romain Bussine, professor of singing at the Conservatoire, discussed the founding of a society to promote new French music. Before they could take the proposal further, the Franco-Prussian War broke out. Saint-Saëns served in the National Guard during the war. During the brief but bloody Paris Commune that followed, his superior at the Madeleine, the Abbé Deguerry, was murdered by rebels; Saint-Saëns was fortunate to escape to temporary exile in England where he arrived in May 1871. With the help of George Grove and others he supported himself while there, giving recitals. Returning to Paris in the same year, he found that anti-German sentiments had considerably enhanced support for the idea of a pro-French musical society. The Société Nationale de Musique, with its motto, \"Ars Gallica\", had been established in February 1871, with Bussine as president, Saint-Saëns as vice-president and Henri Duparc, Fauré, Franck and Jules Massenet among its founder-members.\nAs an admirer of Liszt's innovative symphonic poems, Saint-Saëns enthusiastically adopted the form; his first \"poème symphonique\" was \"Le Rouet d'Omphale\" (1871), premiered at a concert of the Sociéte Nationale in January 1872. In the same year, after more than a decade of intermittent work on operatic scores, Saint-Saëns finally had one of his operas staged. \"La princesse jaune\" (\"The Yellow Princess\"), a one-act, light romantic piece, was given at the Opéra-Comique, Paris in June. It ran for five performances.\n\nThroughout the 1860s and early 1870s, Saint-Saëns had continued to live a bachelor existence, sharing a large fourth-floor flat in the Rue du Faubourg Saint-Honoré with his mother. In 1875, he surprised many by marrying. The groom was approaching forty and his bride was nineteen; she was Marie-Laure Truffot, the sister of one of the composer's pupils. The marriage was not a success. In the words of the biographer Sabina Teller Ratner, \"Saint-Saëns's mother disapproved, and her son was difficult to live with\". Saint-Saëns and his wife moved to the Rue Monsieur-le-Prince, in the Latin Quarter; his mother moved with them. The couple had two sons, both of whom died in infancy. In 1878, the elder, André, aged two, fell from a window of the flat and was killed; the younger, Jean-François, died of pneumonia six weeks later, aged six months. Saint-Saëns and Marie-Laure continued to live together for three years, but he blamed her for André's accident; the double blow of their loss effectively destroyed the marriage.\nFor a French composer of the 19th century, opera was seen as the most important type of music. Saint-Saëns's younger contemporary and rival, Massenet, was beginning to gain a reputation as an operatic composer, but Saint-Saëns, with only the short and unsuccessful \"La princesse jaune\" staged, had made no mark in that sphere. In February 1877, he finally had a full-length opera staged. His four-act \"drame lyricque\", \"Le timbre d'argent\" (\"The Silver Bell\"), to Jules Barbier's and Michel Carré's libretto, reminiscent of the Faust legend, had been in rehearsal in 1870, but the outbreak of war halted the production. The work was eventually presented by the Théâtre Lyrique company of Paris; it ran for eighteen performances.\n\nThe dedicatee of the opera, Albert Libon, died three months after the premiere, leaving Saint-Saëns a large legacy \"To free him from the slavery of the organ of the Madeleine and to enable him to devote himself entirely to composition\". Saint-Saëns, unaware of the imminent bequest, had resigned his position shortly before his friend died. He was not a conventional Christian, and found religious dogma increasingly irksome; he had become tired of the clerical authorities' interference and musical insensitivity; and he wanted to be free to accept more engagements as a piano soloist in other cities. After this he never played the organ professionally in a church service, and rarely played the instrument at all. He composed a \"Messe de Requiem\" in memory of his friend, which was performed at Saint-Sulpice to mark the first anniversary of Libon's death; Charles-Marie Widor played the organ and Saint-Saëns conducted.\n\nIn December 1877, Saint-Saëns had a more solid operatic success, with \"Samson et Dalila\", his one opera to gain and keep a place in the international repertoire. Because of its biblical subject, the composer had met many obstacles to its presentation in France, and through Liszt's influence the premiere was given at Weimar in a German translation. Although the work eventually became an international success it was not staged at the Paris Opéra until 1892.\n\nSaint-Saëns was a keen traveller. From the 1870s until the end of his life he made 179 trips to 27 countries. His professional engagements took him most often to Germany and England; for holidays, and to avoid Parisian winters which affected his weak chest, he favoured Algiers and various places in Egypt.\n\nSaint-Saëns was elected to the Institut de France in 1881, at his second attempt, having to his chagrin been beaten by Massenet in 1878. In July of that year he and his wife went to the Auvergnat spa town of La Bourboule for a holiday. On 28 July he disappeared from their hotel, and a few days later his wife received a letter from him to say that he would not be returning. They never saw each other again. Marie Saint-Saëns returned to her family, and lived until 1950, dying near Bordeaux at the age of ninety-five. Saint-Saëns did not divorce his wife and remarry, nor did he form any later intimate relationship with a woman. Rees comments that although there is no firm evidence, some biographers believe that Saint-Saëns was more attracted to his own sex than to women. After the death of his children and collapse of his marriage, Saint-Saëns increasingly found a surrogate family in Fauré and his wife, Marie, and their two sons, to whom he was a much-loved honorary uncle. Marie told him, \"For us you are one of the family, and we mention your name ceaselessly here.\"\nIn the 1880s Saint-Saëns continued to seek success in the opera house, an undertaking made the more difficult by an entrenched belief among influential members of the musical establishment that it was unthinkable that a pianist, organist and symphonist could write a good opera. He had two operas staged during the decade, the first being \"Henry VIII\" (1883) commissioned by the Paris Opéra. Although the libretto was not of his choosing, Saint-Saëns, normally a fluent, even facile composer, worked at the score with unusual diligence to capture a convincing air of 16th-century England. The work was a success, and was frequently revived during the composer's lifetime. When it was produced at Covent Garden in 1898, \"The Era\" commented that though French librettists generally \"make a pretty hash of British history\", this piece was \"not altogether contemptible as an opera story\".\n\nThe open-mindedness of the Société Nationale had hardened by the mid-1880s into a dogmatic adherence to Wagnerian methods favoured by Franck's pupils, led by Vincent d'Indy. They had begun to dominate the organisation and sought to abandon its \"Ars Gallica\" ethos of commitment to French works. Bussine and Saint-Saëns found this unacceptable, and resigned in 1886. Having long pressed the merits of Wagner on a sometimes sceptical French public, Saint-Saëns was now becoming worried that the German's music was having an excessive impact on young French composers. His increasing caution towards Wagner developed in later years into stronger hostility, directed as much at Wagner's political nationalism as at his music.\n\nBy the 1880s Saint-Saëns was an established favourite with audiences in England, where he was widely regarded as the greatest living French composer. In 1886 the Philharmonic Society of London commissioned what became one of his most popular and respected works, the Third (\"Organ\") Symphony. It was premiered in London at a concert in which Saint-Saëns appeared as conductor of the symphony and as soloist in Beethoven's Fourth Piano Concerto, conducted by Sir Arthur Sullivan. The success of the symphony in London was considerable, but was surpassed by the ecstatic welcome the work received at its Paris premiere early the following year. Later in 1887 Saint-Saëns's \"drame lyrique\" \"Proserpine\" opened at the Opéra-Comique. It was well received and seemed to be heading for a substantial run when the theatre burnt down within weeks of the premiere and the production was lost.\n\nIn December 1888 Saint-Saëns's mother died. He felt her loss deeply, and was plunged into depression and insomnia, even contemplating suicide. He left Paris and stayed in Algiers, where he recuperated until May 1889, walking and reading but unable to compose.\n\nDuring the 1890s Saint-Saëns spent much time on holiday, travelling overseas, composing less and performing more infrequently than before. A planned visit to perform in Chicago fell through in 1893. He wrote one opera, the comedy \"Phryné\" (1893), and together with Paul Dukas helped to complete \"Frédégonde\" (1895) an opera left unfinished by Ernest Guiraud, who died in 1892. \"Phryné\" was well received, and prompted calls for more comic operas at the Opéra-Comique, which had latterly been favouring grand opera. His few choral and orchestral works from the 1890s are mostly short; the major concert pieces from the decade were the single movement fantasia \"Africa\" (1891) and his Fifth (\"Egyptian\") Piano Concerto, which he premiered at a concert in 1896 marking the fiftieth anniversary of his début at the Salle Pleyel in 1846. Before playing the concerto he read out a short poem he had written for the event, praising his mother's tutelage and his public's long support.\n\nAmong the concerts that Saint-Saëns undertook during the decade was one at Cambridge in June 1893, when he, Bruch and Tchaikovsky performed at an event presented by Charles Villiers Stanford for the Cambridge University Musical Society, marking the award of honorary degrees to all three visitors. Saint-Saëns greatly enjoyed the visit, and even spoke approvingly of the college chapel services: \"The demands of English religion are not excessive. The services are very short, and consist chiefly of listening to good music extremely well sung, for the English are excellent choristers\". His mutual regard for British choirs continued for the rest of his life, and one of his last large-scale works, the oratorio \"The Promised Land\", was composed for the Three Choirs Festival of 1913.\n\nIn 1900, after ten years without a permanent home in Paris, Saint-Saëns took a flat in the rue de Courcelles, not far from his old residence in the rue du Faubourg Saint-Honoré. This remained his home for the rest of his life. He continued to travel abroad frequently, but increasingly often to give concerts rather than as a tourist. He revisited London, where he was always a welcome visitor, went to Berlin, where until the First World War, he was greeted with honour, and travelled in Italy, Spain, Monaco and provincial France. In 1906 and 1909 he made highly successful tours of the US, as a pianist and conductor. In New York on his second visit he premiered his \"Praise ye the Lord\" for double choir, orchestra and organ, which he composed for the occasion.\n\nDespite his growing reputation as a musical reactionary, Saint-Saëns was, according to Gallois, probably the only French musician who travelled to Munich to hear the premiere of Mahler's Eighth Symphony in 1910. Nonetheless, by the 20th century Saint-Saëns had lost much of his enthusiasm for modernism in music. Though he strove to conceal it from Fauré, he did not understand or like the latter's opera \"Pénélope\" (1913), of which he was the dedicatee. In 1917 Francis Poulenc, at the beginning of his career as a composer, was dismissive when Ravel praised Saint-Saëns as a genius. By this time, various strands of new music were emerging with which Saint-Saëns had little in common. His classical instincts for form put him at odds with what seemed to him the shapelessness and structure of the musical impressionists, led by Debussy. Nor did the theories of Arnold Schönberg's dodecaphony commend themselves to Saint-Saëns:\n\nHolding such conservative views, Saint-Saëns was out of sympathy – and out of fashion – with the Parisian musical scene of the early 20th century, fascinated as it was with novelty. It is often said that he walked out, scandalised, from the premiere of Vaslav Nijinsky and Igor Stravinsky's ballet \"The Rite of Spring\" in 1913. In fact, according to Stravinsky, Saint-Saëns was not present on that occasion, but at the first concert performance of the piece the following year he expressed the firm view that Stravinsky was insane.\n\nWhen a group of French musicians led by Saint-Saëns tried to organise a boycott of German music during the First World War, Fauré and Messager dissociated themselves from the idea, though the disagreement did not affect their friendship with their old teacher. They were privately concerned that their friend was in danger of looking foolish with his excess of patriotism, and his growing tendency to denounce in public the works of rising young composers, as in his condemnation of Debussy's \"En blanc et noir\" (1915): \"We must at all costs bar the door of the Institut against a man capable of such atrocities; they should be put next to the cubist pictures.\" His determination to block Debussy's candidacy for election to the Institut was successful, and caused bitter resentment from the younger composer's supporters. Saint-Saëns's response to the neoclassicism of Les Six was equally uncompromising: of Darius Milhaud's polytonal symphonic suite \"Protée\" (1919) he commented, \"fortunately, there are still lunatic asylums in France\".\nSaint-Saëns gave what he intended to be his farewell concert as a pianist in Paris in 1913, but his retirement was soon in abeyance as a result of the war, during which he gave many performances in France and elsewhere, raising money for war charities. These activities took him across the Atlantic, despite the danger from German warships.\n\nIn November 1921, Saint-Saëns gave a recital at the Institut for a large invited audience; it was remarked that his playing was as vivid and precise as ever, and that his personal bearing was admirable for a man of eighty-six. He left Paris a month later for Algiers, with the intention of wintering there, as he had long been accustomed to do. While there, he died without warning of a heart attack on 16 December 1921. His body was taken back to Paris, and after a state funeral at the Madeleine he was buried at the Cimetière de Montparnasse. Heavily veiled, in an inconspicuous place among the mourners from France's political and artistic élite, was his widow, Marie-Laure, whom he had last seen in 1881.\n\nIn the early years of the 20th century, the anonymous author of the article on Saint-Saëns in \"Grove's Dictionary of Music and Musicians\" wrote:\n\nAlthough a keen modernist in his youth, Saint-Saëns was always deeply aware of the great masters of the past. In a profile of him written to mark his eightieth birthday, the critic DCParker wrote, \"That Saint-Saëns knows Rameau... Bach and Handel, Haydn and Mozart, must be manifest to all who are familiar with his writings. His love for the classical giants and his sympathy with them form, so to speak, the foundation of his art.\"\n\nLess attracted than some of his French contemporaries to the continuous stream of music popularised by Wagner, Saint-Saëns often favoured self-contained melodies. Though they are frequently, in Ratner's phrase, \"supple and pliable\", more often than not they are constructed in three- or four-bar sections, and the \"phrase pattern AABB is characteristic\". An occasional tendency to neoclassicism, influenced by his study of French baroque music, is in contrast with the colourful orchestral music more widely identified with him. \"Grove\" observes that he makes his effects more by characterful harmony and rhythms than by extravagant scoring. In both of those areas of his craft he was normally content with the familiar. Rhythmically, he inclined to standard double, triple or compound metres (although \"Grove\" points to a 5/4 passage in the Piano Trio and another in 7/4 in the Polonaise for two pianos). From his time at the Conservatoire he was a master of counterpoint; contrapuntal passages crop up, seemingly naturally, in many of his works.\n\nThe authors of the 1955 \"The Record Guide\", Edward Sackville-West and Desmond Shawe-Taylor write that Saint-Saëns's brilliant musicianship was \"instrumental in drawing the attention of French musicians to the fact that that there are other forms of music besides opera.\" In the 2001 edition of \"Grove's Dictionary\", Ratner and Daniel Fallon, analysing Saint-Saëns's orchestral music rate the unnumbered Symphony in A (c.1850) as the most ambitious of the composer's juvenilia. Of the works of his maturity, the First Symphony (1853) is a serious and large-scale work, in which the influence of Schumann is detectable. The \"Urbs Roma\" Symphony (1856) in some ways represents a backward step, being less deftly orchestrated, and \"thick and heavy\" in its effect. Ratner and Fallon praise the Second Symphony (1859) as a fine example of orchestral economy and structural cohesion, with passages that show the composer's mastery of fugal writing. The best known of the symphonies is the Third (1886) which, unusually, has prominent parts for piano and organ. It opens in C minor and ends in C major with a stately chorale tune. The four movements are clearly divided into two pairs, a practice Saint-Saëns used elsewhere, notably in the Fourth Piano Concerto (1875) and the First Violin Sonata (1885). The work is dedicated to the memory of Liszt, and uses a recurring \"motif\" treated in a Lisztian style of thematic transformation.\nSaint-Saëns's four symphonic poems follow the model of those by Liszt, though, in Sackville-West's and Shawe-Taylor's view, without the \"vulgar blatancy\" to which the earlier composer was prone. The most popular of the four is \"Danse macabre\" (1874) depicting skeletons dancing at midnight. Saint-Saëns generally achieved his orchestral effects by deft harmonisation rather than exotic instrumentation, but in this piece he featured the xylophone prominently, representing the rattling bones of the dancers. \"Le Rouet d'Omphale\" (1870) was composed soon after the horrors of the Commune, but its lightness and delicate orchestration give no hint of recent tragedies. Rees rates \"Phaëton\" (1873) as the finest of the symphonic poems, belying the composer's professed indifference to melody, and inspired in its depiction of the mythical hero and his fate. A critic at the time of the premiere took a different view, hearing in the piece \"the noise of a hack coming down from Montmartre\" rather than the galloping fiery horses of Greek legend that inspired the piece. The last of the four symphonic poems, \"La jeunesse d'Hercule\" (\"Hercules's Youth\", 1877) was the most ambitious of the four, which, Harding suggests, is why it is the least successful. In the judgment of the critic Roger Nichols these orchestral works, which combine striking melodies, strength of construction and memorable orchestration \"set new standards for French music and were an inspiration to such young composers as Ravel\".\n\nSaint-Saëns wrote a one-act ballet, \"Javot\" (1896), the score for the film \"L'assassinat du duc de Guise\" (1908), and incidental music to a dozen plays between 1850 and 1916. Three of these scores were for revivals of classics by Molière and Racine, for which Saint-Saëns's deep knowledge of French baroque scores was reflected in his scores, in which he incorporated music by Lully and Charpentier.\n\nSaint-Saëns was the first major French composer to write piano concertos. His First, in D (1858), in conventional three-movement form, is not well known, but the Second, in G minor (1868) is one of his most popular works. The composer experimented with form in this piece, replacing the customary sonata form first movement with a more discursive structure, opening with a solemn cadenza. The scherzo second movement and \"presto\" finale are in such contrast with the opening that the pianist Zygmunt Stojowski commented that the work \"begins like Bach and ends like Offenbach\". The Third Piano Concerto, in E (1869) has another high-spirited finale, but the earlier movements are more classical, the texture clear, with graceful melodic lines. The Fourth, in C minor (1875) is probably the composer's best-known piano concerto after the Second. It is in two movements, each comprising two identifiable sub-sections, and maintains a thematic unity not found in the composer's other piano concertos. According to some sources it was this piece that so impressed Gounod that he dubbed Saint-Saëns \"the Beethoven of France\" (other sources base that distinction on the Third Symphony). The Fifth and last piano concerto, in F major, was written in 1896, more than twenty years after its predecessor. The work is known as the \"Egyptian\" concerto; it was written while the composer was wintering in Luxor, and incorporates a tune he heard Nile boatmen singing.\n\nThe First Cello Concerto, in A minor (1872) is a serious although animated work, in a single continuous movement with an unusually turbulent first section. It is among the most popular concertos in the cello repertory, much favoured by Pablo Casals and later players. The Second, in D minor (1902), like the Fourth Piano Concerto, consists of two movements each subdivided into two distinct sections. It is more purely virtuosic than its predecessor: Saint-Saëns commented to Fauré that it would never be as popular as the First because it was too difficult. There are three violin concertos; the first to be composed dates from 1858 but was not published until 1879, as the composer's Second, in C major. The First, in A, was also completed in 1858. It is a short work, its single 314-bar movement lasting less than a quarter of an hour. The Second, in conventional three-movement concerto form, is twice as long as the First, and is the least popular of the three: the thematic catalogue of the composer's works lists only three performances in his lifetime. The Third, in B minor, written for Pablo de Sarasate, is technically challenging for the soloist, although the virtuoso passages are balanced by intervals of pastoral serenity. It is by some margin the most popular of the three violin concertos, but Saint-Saëns's best-known concertante work for violin and orchestra is probably the Introduction and Rondo Capriccioso, in A minor, Op. 28, a single-movement piece, also written for Sarasate, dating from 1863. It changes from a wistful opening to a swaggering main theme, described as faintly sinister by the critic Gerald Larner, who goes on, \"After a multi-stopped cadenza ... the solo violin makes a breathless sprint through the coda to the happy ending in A major\".\n\nDiscounting his collaboration with Dukas in the completion of Guiraud's unfinished \"Frédégonde\", Saint-Saëns wrote twelve operas, two of which are \"opéras comiques\". During the composer's lifetime his \"Henry VIII\" became a repertory piece; since his death only \"Samson et Dalila\" has been regularly staged, although according to Schonberg, \"Ascanio\" (1890) is considered by experts to be a much finer work. The critic Ronald Crichton writes that for all his experience and musical skill, Saint-Saëns \"lacked the 'nose' of the theatre animal granted, for example, to Massenet who in other forms of music was his inferior\". In a 2005 study, the musical scholar Steven Huebner contrasts the two composers: \"Saint-Saëns obviously had no time for Massenet's histrionics\". Saint-Saëns's biographer James Harding comments that it is regrettable that the composer did not attempt more works of a light-hearted nature, on the lines of \"La princesse jaune\", which Harding describes as like Sullivan \"with a light French touch\".\n\nAlthough most of Saint-Saëns's operas have remained neglected, Crichton rates them as important in the history of French opera, as \"a bridge between Meyerbeer and the serious French operas of the early 1890s\". In his view, the operatic scores of Saint-Saëns have, in general, the strengths and weaknesses of the rest of his music – \"lucid Mozartian transparency, greater care for form than for content... There is a certain emotional dryness; invention is sometimes thin, but the workmanship is impeccable.\" Stylistically, Saint-Saëns drew on a range of models. From Meyerbeer he drew the effective use of the chorus in the action of a piece; for \"Henry VIII\" he included Tudor music he had researched in London; in \"La princesse jaune\" he used an oriental pentatonic scale; from Wagner he derived the use of leitmotifs, which, like Massenet, he used sparingly. Huebner observes that Saint-Saëns was more conventional than Massenet so far as through composition is concerned, more often favouring discrete arias and ensembles, with less variety of tempo within individual numbers. In a survey of recorded opera Alan Blyth writes that Saint-Saëns \"certainly learned much from Handel, Gluck, Berlioz, the Verdi of \"Aida\", and Wagner, but from these excellent models he forged his own style.\"\n\nFrom the age of six and for the rest of his life Saint-Saëns composed \"mélodies\", writing more than 140. He regarded his songs as thoroughly and typically French, denying any influence from Schubert or other German composers of \"Lieder\". Unlike his protégé Fauré, or his rival Massenet, he was not drawn to the song cycle, writing only two during his long career – \"Mélodies persanes\" (\"Persian Songs\", 1870) and \"Le Cendre rouge\" (\"The Red Ash Tree\", 1914, dedicated to Fauré). The poet whose works he set most often was Victor Hugo; others included Alphonse de Lamartine, Pierre Corneille, Amable Tastu, and, in eight songs, Saint-Saëns himself: among his many non-musical talents he was an amateur poet. He was highly sensitive to word setting, and told the young composer Lili Boulanger that to write songs effectively musical talent was not enough: \"you must study the French language in depth; it is indispensable.\" Most of the \"mélodies\" are written for piano accompaniment, but a few, including \"Le lever du soleil sur le Nil\" (\"Sunrise over the Nile\", 1898) and \"Hymne à la paix\" (\"Hymn to Peace\", 1919), are for voice and orchestra. His settings, and chosen verses, are generally traditional in form, contrasting with the free verse and less structured forms of a later generation of French composers, including Debussy.\n\nSaint-Saëns composed more than sixty sacred vocal works, ranging from motets to masses and oratorios. Among the larger-scale compositions are the Requiem (1878) and the oratorios \"Le déluge\" (1875) and \"The Promised Land\" (1913) with an English text by Herman Klein. He was proud of his connection with British choirs, commenting, \"One likes to be appreciated in the home, \"par excellence\", of oratorio.\" He wrote a smaller number of secular choral works, some for unaccompanied choir, some with piano accompaniment and some with full orchestra. In his choral works, Saint-Saëns drew heavily on tradition, feeling that his models should be Handel, Mendelssohn and other earlier masters of the genre. In Klein's view, this approach was old-fashioned, and the familiarity of Saint-Saëns's treatment of the oratorio form impeded his success in it.\n\nNichols comments that, although as a famous pianist Saint-Saëns wrote for the piano throughout his life, \"this part of his oeuvre has made curiously little mark\". Nichols excepts the \"Étude en forme de valse\" (1912), which he observes still attracts pianists eager to display their left-hand technique. Although Saint-Saëns was dubbed \"the French Beethoven\", and his Variations on a Theme of Beethoven in E (1874) is his most extended work for unaccompanied piano, he did not emulate his predecessor in composing piano sonatas. He is not known even to have contemplated writing one. There are sets of bagatelles (1855), études (two sets – 1899 and 1912) and fugues (1920), but in general Saint-Saëns's works for the piano are single short pieces. In addition to established forms such as the song without words (1871) and the mazurka (1862, 1871 and 1882) popularised by Mendelssohn and Chopin, respectively, he wrote descriptive pieces such as \"Souvenir d'Italie\" (1887), \"Les cloches du soir\" (\"Evening bells\", 1889) and \"Souvenir d'Ismaïlia\" (1895).\nUnlike his pupil, Fauré, whose long career as a reluctant organist left no legacy of works for the instrument, Saint-Saëns published a modest number of pieces for organ solo. Some of them were written for use in church services – \"Offertoire\" (1853), \"Bénédiction nuptiale\" (1859), \"Communion\" (1859) and others. After he left the Madeleine in 1877 Saint-Saëns wrote ten more pieces for organ, mostly for concert use, including two sets of preludes and fugues (1894 and 1898). Some of the earlier works were written to be played on either the harmonium or the organ, and a few were primarily intended for the former.\n\nSaint-Saëns wrote more than forty chamber works between the 1840s and his last years. One of the first of his major works in the genre was the Piano Quintet (1855). It is a straightforward, confident piece, in a conventional structure with lively outer movements and a central movement containing two slow themes, one chorale-like and the other \"cantabile\". The Septet (1880), for the unusual combination of trumpet, two violins, viola, cello, double bass and piano, is a neoclassical work that draws on 17th-century French dance forms. At the time of its composition Saint-Saëns was preparing new editions of the works of baroque composers including Rameau and Lully.\n\nIn Ratner's view, the most important of Saint-Saëns's chamber works are the sonatas: two for violin, two for cello, and one each for oboe, clarinet and bassoon, all seven with piano accompaniment. The First Violin Sonata dates from 1885, and is rated by \"Grove's Dictionary\" as one of the composer's best and most characteristic compositions. The Second (1896) signals a stylistic change in Saint-Saëns's work, with a lighter, clearer sound for the piano, characteristic of his music from then onwards. The First Cello Sonata (1872) was written after the death of the composer's great-aunt, who had taught him to play the piano more than thirty years earlier. It is a serious work, in which the main melodic material is sustained by the cello over a virtuoso piano accompaniment. Fauré called it the only cello sonata from any country to be of any importance. The Second (1905) is in four movements, and has the unusual feature of a theme and variations as its scherzo.\nThe woodwind sonatas are among the composer's last works. Ratner writes of them, \"The spare, evocative, classical lines, haunting melodies, and superb formal structures underline these beacons of the neoclassical movement.\" Gallois comments that the Oboe Sonata begins like a conventional classical sonata, with an andantino theme; the central section has rich and colourful harmonies, and the molto allegro finale is full of delicacy, humour and charm with a form of tarantella. For Gallois the Clarinet Sonata is the most important of the three: he calls it \"a masterpiece full of impishness, elegance and discreet lyricism\" amounting to \"a summary of the rest\". The work contrasts a \"doleful threnody\" in the slow movement with the finale, which \"pirouettes in 4/4 time\", in a style reminiscent of the 18th century. The same commentator calls the Bassoon Sonata \"a model of transparency, vitality and lightness\", containing humorous touches but also moments of peaceful contemplation.\n\nThe composer's most famous work, \"The Carnival of the Animals\" (1887), although far from a typical chamber piece, is written for eleven players, and is considered by \"Grove's Dictionary\" to be part of Saint-Saëns's chamber output. \"Grove\" rates it as \"his most brilliant comic work, parodying Offenbach, Berlioz, Mendelssohn, Rossini, his own \"Danse macabre\" and several popular tunes\". He forbade performances of it during his lifetime, concerned that its frivolity would damage his reputation as a serious composer.\n\nSaint-Saëns was a pioneer in recorded music. In June 1904 The Gramophone Company of London sent its producer Fred Gaisberg to Paris to record Saint-Saëns as accompanist to the mezzo-soprano Meyriane Héglon in arias from \"Ascanio\" and \"Samson et Dalila\", and as soloist in his own piano music, including an arrangement of sections of the Second Piano Concerto (without orchestra). Saint-Saëns made more recordings for the company in 1919.\n\nIn the early days of the LP record, Saint-Saëns's works were patchily represented on disc. \"The Record Guide\" (1955) lists one recording apiece of the Third Symphony, Second Piano Concerto and First Cello Concerto, alongside several versions of \"Danse Macabre\", \"The Carnival of the Animals\", the Introduction and Rondo Capriccioso and other short orchestral works. In the latter part of the 20th century and the early 21st, many more of the composer's works were released on LP and later CD and DVD. The 2008 \"Penguin Guide to Recorded Classical Music\" contains ten pages of listings of Saint-Saëns works, including all the concertos, symphonies, symphonic poems, sonatas and quartets. Also listed are an early Mass, collections of organ music, and choral songs. A recording of twenty-seven of Saint-Saëns's \"mélodies\" was released in 1997.\n\nWith the exception of \"Samson et Dalila\" the operas have been sparsely represented on disc. A recording of \"Henry VIII\" was issued on CD and DVD in 1992. \"Hélène\" was released on CD in 2008. There are several recordings of \"Samson et Dalilah\", under conductors including Sir Colin Davis, Georges Prêtre, Daniel Barenboim and Myung-Whun Chung.\n\nSaint-Saëns was made a Chevalier of the Legion of Honour in 1867 and promoted to Officier in 1884, and Grand Croix in 1913. Foreign honours included the British Royal Victorian Order (CVO) in 1902, and honorary doctorates from the universities of Cambridge (1893) and Oxford (1907).\n\nIn its obituary notice, \"The Times\" commented:\nIn a short poem, \"Mea culpa\", published in 1890 Saint-Saëns accused himself of lack of decadence, and commented approvingly on the excessive enthusiasms of youth, lamenting that such things were not for him. An English commentator quoted the poem in 1910, observing, \"His sympathies are with the young in their desire to push forward, because he has not forgotten his own youth when he championed the progressive ideals of the day.\" The composer sought a balance between innovation and traditional form. The critic Henry Colles, wrote, a few days after the composer's death:\n\"Grove\" concludes its article on Saint-Saëns with the observation that although his works are remarkably consistent, \"it cannot be said that he evolved a distinctive musical style. Rather, he defended the French tradition that threatened to be engulfed by Wagnerian influences and created the environment that nourished his successors\".\n\nSince the composer's death writers sympathetic to his music have expressed regret that he is known by the musical public for only a handful of his scores such as \"The Carnival of the Animals\", the Second Piano Concerto, the Organ Symphony, \"Samson et Dalila\", \"Danse macabre\" and the Introduction and Rondo Capriccioso. Among his large output, Nicholas singles out the Requiem, the Christmas Oratorio, the ballet \"Javotte\", the Piano Quartet, the Septet for trumpet, piano and strings, and the First Violin Sonata as neglected masterpieces. In 2004, the cellist Steven Isserlis said, \"Saint-Saens is exactly the sort of composer who needs a festival to himself ... there are Masses, all of which are interesting. I've played all his cello music and there isn't one bad piece. His works are rewarding in every way. And he's an endlessly fascinating figure.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13778526", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13778526", "title": "Capital punishment in Bulgaria", "text": "Capital punishment in Bulgaria\n\nCapital punishment in Bulgaria was abolished on December 12, 1998 with the last execution having been carried out by firing squad on November 4, 1989. The Parliament of Bulgaria had introduced a moratorium on July 7, 1990 and protocol number six of the European Convention on Human Rights came into force on October 1, 1999.\n\n"}
{"id": "29957884", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29957884", "title": "Carboniferous rainforest collapse", "text": "Carboniferous rainforest collapse\n\nThe Carboniferous rainforest collapse (CRC) was a minor extinction event that occurred around 305 million years ago in the Carboniferous period. It altered the vast coal forests that covered the equatorial region of Euramerica (Europe and America). This event may have fragmented the forests into isolated 'islands', which in turn caused dwarfism and, shortly after, extinction of many plant and animal species. Following the event, coal-forming tropical forests continued in large areas of the Earth, but their extent and composition were changed.\n\nThe event occurred at the end of the Moscovian and continued into the early Kasimovian stages of the Pennsylvanian (Upper Carboniferous).\n\nIn the Carboniferous, the great tropical rainforests of Euramerica supported towering lycopodiophyta, a heterogeneous mix of vegetation, as well as a great diversity of animal life: giant dragonflies, millipedes, cockroaches, amphibians, and the first amniotes.\n\nThe rise of rainforests in the Carboniferous greatly altered the landscapes by eroding low-energy, organic-rich anastomosing (braided) river systems with multiple channels and stable alluvial islands. The continuing evolution of tree-like plants increased floodplain stability (less erosion and movement) by the density of floodplain forests, the production of woody debris, and an increase in complexity and diversity of root assemblages.\n\nCollapse occurred through a series of step changes. First there was a gradual rise in the frequency of opportunistic ferns in late Moscovian times. This was followed in the earliest Kasimovian by a major, abrupt extinction of the dominant lycopsids and a change to tree fern-dominated ecosystems. This is confirmed by a recent study showing that the presence of meandering and anabranching rivers, occurrences of large woody debris, and records of log jams decrease significantly at the Moscovian-Kasimovian boundary. Rainforests were fragmented, forming shrinking 'islands' further and further apart, and in latest Kasimovian time, rainforests vanished from the fossil record.\n\nBefore the collapse, animal species distribution was very cosmopolitan – the same species existed everywhere across tropical Pangaea – but after the collapse, each surviving rainforest 'island' developed its own unique mix of species. Many amphibian species became extinct, while reptiles diversified into more species after the initial crisis. These patterns are explained by the theory of insular biogeography, a concept that explains how evolution progresses when populations are restricted into isolated pockets. This theory was originally developed for oceanic islands, but it can be applied equally well to any other ecosystem that is fragmented, only existing in small patches and surrounded by another habitat. According to this theory, the initial impact of habitat fragmentation is devastating, with most life dying out quickly from lack of resources. Then, as surviving plants and animals reestablish themselves, they adapt to their restricted environment to take advantage of the new allotment of resources, and diversify. After the Carboniferous Rainforest Collapse, each pocket of life evolved in its own way, resulting in a unique species mix that ecologists call \"endemism\".\n\nThe fragmentation of wetlands left a few isolated refugia in Europe; however, even these were unable to maintain the diversity of Moscovian flora. By the Asselian many families that characterized the Moscovian tropical wetlands had disappeared including Flemingitaceae, Diaphorodendraceae, Tedeleaceae, Urnatopteridaceae, Alethopteridaceae, Cyclopteridaceae, and Neurodontopteridaceae.\n\nThe depletion of plant life contributed to declining concentrations of oxygen in the atmosphere. High oxygen levels had made the enormous arthropods of the time possible. Due to the decreasing oxygen, these sizes could no longer be accommodated, and thus between this and the loss of habitat, the giant arthropods were wiped out in this event, most notably the giant dragonflies (Meganeura) and millipedes (Arthropleura)..\n\nThis sudden collapse affected several large groups. Labyrinthodont amphibians were particularly devastated, while the first reptiles fared better, being physiologically better adapted to the drier conditions. \n\nAmphibians can survive cold conditions by decreasing metabolic rates and resorting to overwintering strategies (i.e. spending most of the year inactive in burrows or under logs). However, this is not an effective way to deal with prolonged unfavourable conditions, especially desiccation. Amphibians must return to water to lay eggs, while reptiles have amniote eggs that have a membrane ensuring gas exchange out of water. Because amphibians had a limited capacity to adapt to the drier conditions that dominated Permian environments, many amphibian families failed to occupy new ecological niches and became extinct.\n\nReptiles acquired new niches faster than amphibians and faster than before the collapse. They acquired new feeding strategies, including herbivory and carnivory, previously only having been insectivores and piscivores.\n\nThere are several hypotheses about the nature and cause of the Carboniferous Rainforest Collapse, some of which include climate change. After a late Bashkirian interval of glaciation, high-frequency shifts in seasonality from humid to arid times began.\n\nThe carboniferous period is characterised by the formation of coal deposits which were formed within a context of the removal of atmospheric carbon. In the latest Middle Pennsylvanian (late Moscovian) a cycle of aridification began. At the time of the Carboniferous Rainforest Collapse, the climate became cooler and drier. This is reflected in the rock record as the Earth entered a short, intense ice age. Sea levels dropped by 100 m, and glacial ice covered most of the southern continent of Gondwana. The climate was unfavourable to rainforests and much of the biodiversity in them. Rainforests shrank into isolated patches mostly confined to wet valleys further and further apart. Little of the original lycopsid rainforest biome survived this initial climate crisis. The concentration of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere crashed to one of its all time global lows in the Pennsylvanian and early Permian.\n\nThen a succeeding period of global warming reversed the climatic trend; the remaining rainforests, unable to survive the rapidly changing conditions, were finally wiped out.\n\nAs the climate aridified again through the later Paleozoic, rainforests were eventually replaced by seasonally dry biomes. Though the exact speed and nature of the collapse is not clear, it is thought to have occurred relatively quickly in geologic terms, only a few thousand years at most.\n\nAfter restoring the middle of the Skagerrak-Centered Large Igneous Province (SCLIP) using a new reference frame, it has been shown that the Skagerrak plume rose from the core–mantle boundary (CMB) to its ~300 Ma position. The major eruption interval took place in very narrow time interval, of 297 Ma ± 4 Ma. The rift formation coincides with the Moskovian/Kasimovian boundary and the Carboniferous Rainforest Collapse.\n\nIn recent years, scientists have suggested that many of Earth's largest extinction events were due to multiple causes that coincided in time. Proponents suggest multiple causes because they see no single cause as sufficient in strength to cause the mass extinctions, or they believe that a single cause is unlikely to produce the taxonomic pattern of extinction. The specific cause of the Carboniferous rainforest collapse is not known, but a multiple cause scenario is plausible.\n\nA paleoclimate change of global nature occurred during the Moscovian and Kasimovian. An atmospheric drying (aridification) happened in the Middle to Late Pennsylvanian, coinciding with abrupt faunal changes in marine and terrestrial species. This change was recorded in paleosols, which reflect a period of overall decreased hydromorphy, increased free-drainage and landscape stability, and a shift in the overall regional climate to drier conditions in the Upper Pennsylvanian (Missourian). This is consistent with climate interpretations based on contemporaneous paleo-floral assemblages and geological evidence.\n\nMany fossil sites around the world reflect the changing conditions of the Carboniferous Rainforest Collapse.\n\nThe Joggins Fossil Cliffs on Nova Scotia's Bay of Fundy, a UNESCO World Heritage Site, is a particularly well-preserved fossil site. Fossil skeletons embedded in the crumbling sea cliffs were discovered by Sir Charles Lyell in 1852. In 1859, his colleague William Dawson discovered the oldest known reptile, \"Hylonomus lyelli\", and since then hundreds more skeletons have been found.\n\n"}
{"id": "22614777", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22614777", "title": "Clearing murder", "text": "Clearing murder\n\nA Clearing murder was a revenge killing of a known and popular Dane in the last part of the German occupation of Denmark during World War II. When a German or Danish soldier or informant was killed by the Danish resistance movement, the Peter group performed one or more clearing murder.\n\nHitler, at some time in the latter half of 1944, ordered that 10 civilians be killed each time a German soldier was killed by civilians. In Denmark, this was modified so that only one civilian was shot for one German soldier.\n\nThe first clearing murder was of famous author and priest Kaj Munk January 4, 1944. Subsequently, several doctors were murdered, including a senior consultant in Vejle and four doctors in Odense. In all, it is estimated that around one hundred people were killed in clearing murders.\n\nUsually the clearing murders were done as street shooting in order to increase the terror impact of fear and uncertainty in the general population. The aim was to turn the population against the Danish resistance movement. Doctors were especially vulnerable to clearing murders since they were out to look after the sick at any time of day.\n\nThe Germans demanded the Danish newspapers to print articles linking resistance killings and clearing murders next to each other on the same page.\n\n"}
{"id": "57081245", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57081245", "title": "Clementine Barnabet", "text": "Clementine Barnabet\n\nClementine Barnabet (1894? to at least 1923) was an African-American female serial killer. She committed murders in Louisiana and Texas, and was believed to have accomplices as part of a violent religious sect. Initially suspicion fell on her father, but police investigation led to her being a suspect. She confessed to involvement in 35 murders. After a police investigation, she was convicted and imprisoned for her crimes. Barnabet escaped from prison and was not definitively known afterwards.\n\nClementine Barnabet is believed to have been born around 1894 in St. Martinville, Louisiana and moved to Lafayette, Louisiana in 1909. She was born into a two-parent household and lived with her mother and father, Nina Porter and Raymond Barnabet. She had one brother, Zepherin Barnabet. When she was 17, she joined a cult called the Church of Sacrifice which prompted the start of the murders that she committed. Raymond Barnabet was reported to be abusive to his family and very aggressive.\n\nThe Barnabet killings followed a consistent pattern. Barnabet would often murder entire families rather than one singular person. The murders were all done with an axe. It was found that Barnabet would cut the heads off of the victims and once she had butchered the entire family, she would then lay their bodies in bed together and leave them to be found as such. Barnabet's killings occurred between Lafayette, Louisiana and Texas.\n\nIn February 1911, the first of many murders were committed. Walter Byers and his family were murdered. This launched the investigation to determine the killer. The authorities' first suspect was Raymond Barnabet. Barnabet was the father of Clementine. The Barnabet family testified against Raymond, and they all recounted him leaving town that night for unknown reasons and returning home late with blood and brain matter on his shoes and shirt. Zepherin, Clementine's brother, stated that when he returned home, Raymond was bragging about the murders that he had committed and said that the family deserved it.\n\nDuring the time Raymond was being investigated, more killings occurred. In March 1911, the Cassaway family was murdered. This caused a twist in the investigation because the family had a white mother, unlike the previous two families who were all black. Raymond was thought to have committed all three of these massacres and was soon arrested and sent to Lafayette Parish Jail.\n\nWhile Barnabet was awaiting trial, another familicide took place. In November 1911, the Randall family was murdered in a manner similar to the previous slayings. This confused authorities because it raised another suspect. The police then decided to investigate Clementine Barnabet.\n\nIn the Barnabet residence, a man's suit with blood and brain matter all over it was found in Clementine's closet. This prompted police to arrest Clementine Barnabet as a prime suspect, along with her father, of the numerous murders committed in the area. When initially arrested, Clementine denied all connections to the murders.\n\nHowever, eventually Clementine admitted to 35 murders. She explained her connection to the Church of Sacrifice, an offshoot of a Christ's Sanctified Holy Church congregation in Lake Charles, Louisiana. Clementine claimed that a priestess of the Church of Sacrifice had given her and her friends \"conjure bags\" (see Hoodoo) that would grant them supernatural powers and make them undetectable to the authorities. This spurred Clementine into committing her first murder to test whether or not this was true.\n\nAt only 18 years old, in October 1912, Clementine Barnabet was sentenced to life in prison at Angola State Penitentiary. In July 1913, she tried to escape jail but was caught before she even made it to the gate. However, in August 1923, Clementine Barnabet walked out of prison and was never seen or heard from again.\n\n"}
{"id": "23489691", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23489691", "title": "Cliff Birch", "text": "Cliff Birch\n\nClifford \"Cliff\" Birch (1 September 1928 – 1990) was a Welsh professional footballer.\n\nBirch was born in Newport, Monmouthshire. A right-winger, he began his career with Ebbw Vale and joined Norwich in 1949. In 1950 he joined Newport County and made 142 Football League appearances for the club, scoring 28 goals. In 1954 he moved to Colchester United and later to Spalding United.\n"}
{"id": "26266110", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26266110", "title": "Competitive learning", "text": "Competitive learning\n\nCompetitive learning is a form of unsupervised learning in artificial neural networks, in which nodes compete for the right to respond to a subset of the input data. A variant of Hebbian learning, competitive learning works by increasing the specialization of each node in the network. It is well suited to finding clusters within data.\n\nModels and algorithms based on the principle of competitive learning include vector quantization and self-organizing maps (Kohonen maps).\n\nThere are three basic elements to a competitive learning rule:\n\n\nAccordingly, the individual neurons of the network learn to specialize on ensembles of similar patterns and in so doing become 'feature detectors' for different classes of input patterns.\n\nThe fact that competitive networks recode sets of correlated inputs to one of a few output neurons essentially removes the redundancy in representation which is an essential part of processing in biological sensory systems.\n\nCompetitive Learning is usually implemented with Neural Networks that contain a hidden layer which is commonly known as “competitive layer”. Every competitive neuron is described by a vector of weights formula_1 and calculates the similarity measure between the input data formula_2 and the weight vector formula_3 .\n\nFor every input vector, the competitive neurons “compete” with each other to see which one of them is the most similar to that particular input vector. The winner neuron m sets its output formula_4 and all the other competitive neurons set their output formula_5.\n\nUsually, in order to measure similarity the inverse of the Euclidean distance is used: formula_6 between the input vector formula_7 and the weight vector formula_3.\n\nHere is a simple competitive learning algorithm to find three clusters within some input data.\n\n1. (Set-up.) Let a set of sensors all feed into three different nodes, so that every node is connected to every sensor. Let the weights that each node gives to its sensors be set randomly between 0.0 and 1.0. Let the output of each node be the sum of all its sensors, each sensor's signal strength being multiplied by its weight.\n\n2. When the net is shown an input, the node with the highest output is deemed the winner. The input is classified as being within the cluster corresponding to that node.\n\n3. The winner updates each of its weights, moving weight from the connections that gave it weaker signals to the connections that gave it stronger signals.\n\nThus, as more data are received, each node converges on the centre of the cluster that it has come to represent and activates more strongly for inputs in this cluster and more weakly for inputs in other clusters.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53891596", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53891596", "title": "Custer Wolf", "text": "Custer Wolf\n\nThe Custer Wolf was a North American gray wolf who was held responsible for extensive damage to ranchers' livestock in the area surrounding Custer, South Dakota, between 1911 and 1920, with the damage estimated at $25,000. The wolf was shot by a hunter employed by the federal government, who tracked the wolf for months and killed him after the wolf had sprung a trap.\n\nResponsible for the death of $25,000 (equivalent to roughly $300,000 in 2016) worth of horses, cattle, and calves, the wolf eluded professional hunters, sportsmen, and bounty-hunters alike for nine years, during which time the bounty on his head increased from $100 to $500, ten times the usual price of a normal wolf at the time. Until H.P. Williams, an experienced hunter, killed the wolf, no hunts were successful; one tracked the wolf for five years before giving up. Local folklore added greatly to the mystery and hysteria surrounding the wolf. Locals claimed that he was not just a wolf but a \"monstrosity of nature\", a hybrid between a wolf and a mountain lion. The wolf had escaped death so many times that the ranchers of the area believed that they would have to endure their livestock losses until the wolf died of natural causes.\n\nThe wolf reportedly killed more than he needed to survive; in one week he killed more than 30 cattle, castrating and mutilating them. One newspaper even called the wolf \"The cruelest, most sagacious, and most successful animal outlaw\"; another author called him \"the master criminal of the animal world\". It was believed that four years prior to the beginning of his rampage, his mate and their pups were killed, and that the wolf never took another mate or joined another pack: popular belief of the townspeople of Custer held that the wolf was seeking vengeance against the humans that had killed his mate and pups.\n\nIn 1911, 55 gray wolves were killed in the South Dakota Black Hills, with bounties paid. In 1915, 8 more were killed; in 1916, 5 more. A pregnant wolf and her four pups were killed in 1917, and what was possibly her mate was killed in 1920. Without the buffalo and other game to prey on, wolves had to adapt to changing circumstances; they did so by attacking livestock. Many wolves were simply poisoned with strychnine; others were shot in a large federally funded eradication program, which between 1915 and 1920 employed over 300 hunters, who killed a staggering number of animals: 110,000 coyotes, 15,000 bobcats and lynxes, 3,000 wolves. Counting those killed by poison, the total exceeded 250,000.\n\nTo kill the Custer Wolf, the United States Department of Agriculture sent top federal hunter H.P. Williams, who was ordered to stay in South Dakota until the wolf was dead. Williams was credited with trapping and killing over a thousand wolves across the Western United States from the late 19th century to the mid-1920s.\n\nWilliams arrived in April 1920. The wolf had been known to travel in an area of in southern South Dakota, and had even been seen in parts of Wyoming and Nebraska. When Williams first saw the Custer Wolf he was unable to get a clear shot, but along the way, he realized that two coyotes had allied themselves with the wolf: though keeping a distance from the much larger wolf, the two coyotes would often eat the wolf's leftovers. Reportedly, the two coyotes would travel ahead at the flanks of the wolf and warn him of any danger ahead. Williams realized this and decided to shoot and kill both coyotes in hopes of being able to get a clear shot, and the deaths of the coyotes did indeed spook the wolf.\n\nAfter coming close on a number of occasions throughout the summer of 1920, Williams did not see the wolf for almost the entire month of August; in early September, a trap Williams had laid ripped some hair off the wolf's paw. He tracked the wolf again when livestock attacks resumed in early September. After eluding Williams for yet another month, the Custer Wolf stepped on a trap one mid-October morning. The wolf ran with it for about until getting caught on a tree, breaking the swivel of the trap. The severely injured wolf left an easy trail, and Williams shot him after trailing him for , on October 11.\n\nThe Custer Wolf was shot seven months after Williams arrived in South Dakota. To the surprise of many residents of Custer, the animal they had thought a monstrosity of nature was just a normal North American gray wolf, heavy and just over in length. The wolf was so aged that his pelt had turned white. Williams noted that the wolf's teeth would have been strong enough to hunt for another 15 years. In an interview, Williams gave 40 years after leaving South Dakota, he spoke of the great respect that he had for the wolf for giving him the most difficult hunt of his career. In total, the Custer Wolf killed more than 500 livestock and horses, worth around $25,000, or $ in dollars.\n\nIn 1966, wildlife writer Roger A. Caras published a book called \"The Custer Wolf\", which tells the story of a family of wolves in the Custer area through the eyes of one of the wolves. Beginning in a world of natural harmony, the wolves' lives and those of all other animals are disturbed when iron ore from Michigan and coal from Pennsylvania are turned into guns and traps; strychnine is imported from India, all to make war on the wolf. The book ends with H.P. Williams's reflection on the animals he killed.\n\n"}
{"id": "2540811", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2540811", "title": "Darwin (programming game)", "text": "Darwin (programming game)\n\nDarwin was a programming game invented in August 1961 by Victor A. Vyssotsky, Robert Morris Sr., and M. Douglas McIlroy. (Dennis Ritchie is sometimes incorrectly cited as a co-author, but was not involved.) The game was developed at Bell Labs, and played on an IBM 7090 mainframe there. The game was only played for a few weeks before Morris developed an \"ultimate\" program that eventually brought the game to an end, as no-one managed to produce anything that could defeat it.\n\nThe game consisted of a program called the \"umpire\" and a designated section of the computer's memory known as the \"arena\", into which two or more small programs, written by the players, were loaded. The programs were written in 7090 machine code, and could call a number of functions provided by the umpire in order to probe other locations within the arena, kill opposing programs, and claim vacant memory for copies of themselves.\n\nThe game ended after a set amount of time, or when copies of only one program remained alive. The player who wrote the last surviving program was declared winner.\n\nUp to 20 memory locations within each program (fewer in later versions of the game) could be designated as \"protected\". If one of these protected locations was probed by another program, the umpire would immediately transfer control to the program that was probed. This program would then continue to execute until it, in turn, probed a protected location of some other program, and so forth.\n\nWhile the programs were responsible for copying and relocating themselves, they were forbidden from altering memory locations outside themselves without permission from the umpire. As the programs were executed directly by the computer, there was no physical mechanism in place to prevent cheating. Instead, the source code for the programs was made available for study after each game, allowing players to learn from each other and to verify that their opponents hadn't cheated.\n\nThe smallest program that could reproduce, locate enemies and kill them consisted of about 30 instructions. McIlroy developed a 15-instruction program that could locate and kill enemies but not reproduce; while not very lethal, it was effectively unkillable, as it was shorter than the limit of 20 protected instructions. In later games the limit on protected instructions was lowered because of this.\n\nThe \"ultimately lethal\" program developed by Morris had 44 instructions, and employed an adaptive strategy. Once it successfully located the start of an enemy program, it would probe some small distance ahead of this location. If it succeeded in killing the enemy, it would remember the distance and use it on subsequent encounters. If it instead hit a protected location, then the next time it gained control it chose a different distance. Any new copies were initialized with a successful value. In this way, Morris's program evolved into multiple subspecies, each specifically adapted to kill a particular enemy.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1164302", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1164302", "title": "Death of Jeremiah Duggan", "text": "Death of Jeremiah Duggan\n\nJeremiah Joseph Duggan (10 November 1980 – 27 March 2003) was a British student in Paris who died during a visit to Wiesbaden, Germany, after being struck by several cars on a dual carriageway. The circumstances of his death became a matter of dispute because at the time he died Duggan was attending a youth \"cadre\" school organised by the LaRouche movement, an international network led by the American political activist Lyndon LaRouche.\n\nThe German police concluded that Duggan had committed suicide after running several kilometres from the apartment in which he had been staying, then jumping in front of early-morning traffic. A British coroner rejected a suicide verdict in 2003 after hearing the London Metropolitan Police describe the LaRouche movement as a political cult. Duggan telephoned his mother, Erica Duggan, 50 minutes before he died, apparently distressed about his involvement in it.\n\nArguing that the German police had not investigated the case thoroughly, Erica commissioned forensic reports which suggested the car accident might have been staged and that Duggan had died elsewhere. After protracted litigation in the UK and Germany, the High Court in London ordered a second inquest in 2010, and in 2012 the Frankfurt Higher Regional Court ordered the Wiesbaden police to reopen their investigation. In 2015 the coroner upheld that Duggan had been killed in the accident, but rejected a suicide verdict, adding that unexplained injuries suggested an \"altercation at some stage before his death.\"\n\nThe LaRouche movement attributed criticism of its involvement in the case to LaRouche's political opponents, including former British prime minister Tony Blair and former U.S. vice president Dick Cheney, who they say sought to discredit LaRouche over his opposition to the 2003 Iraq War and his criticism of the anthropogenic global-warming theory. \n\nJeremiah Duggan was born in north London to Erica Duggan, a Jewish schoolteacher from South Africa, and her husband, Hugo Duggan, who was raised in Ireland. Erica's father left Berlin in 1933; many family members were killed during the Holocaust. Erica left South Africa for England because of \"apartheid\". She, Hugo, Jeremiah and his two older sisters made their home in the London suburb of Golders Green. Duggan's parents divorced when he was seven.\n\nDuggan attended Fitzjohns Primary School in Hampstead, Quainton School for Boys, and won a scholarship to Christ's Hospital school in Sussex as a boarder. After his A-levels, he spent time in India, then trained in Israel as a youth leader. He was interested in the arts, music and the theatre, and in 2001 moved to Paris to study French at the British Institute and English at the Sorbonne. Duggan's mother said he became interested in politics after 9/11; his strong opposition to the Iraq War led him to become involved with the LaRouche movement.\n\nLyndon LaRouche and his German wife, Helga Zepp-LaRouche, run a global political network of publications, committees and a youth cadre, based in Leesburg, Virginia, in the United States, and in Wiesbaden, Germany. The movement in Germany is represented by the Schiller Institute and the \"Bürgerrechtsbewegung Solidarität\" party. LaRouche stood as a presidential candidate in the US eight times between 1976 and 2004. He was jailed in 1989 for conspiracy to commit fraud, a prosecution he said was politically motivated.\n\nFrom the 1970s the movement became associated with the promotion of conspiracy theories, and at times with the use of violence against opponents, the fraudulent use of donations, and antisemitism. There was criticism of its recruitment methods. According to \"The Sunday Times\", recruits were isolated from their families, encouraged to give up their studies, and subjected to intense verbal pressure before being asked to accept the LaRouche worldview. Members said the allegations were misrepresentations, and LaRouche strongly denied the charge of antisemitism.\n\nLaRouche was particularly critical of Britain and of the Tavistock Institute in London, a psychotherapy and social sciences charity that the movement associated with British intelligence. In 1999 a LaRouche publication said Britain's Secret Intelligence Service (MI6) was threatening to assassinate LaRouche, probably with backing from the British royal family. Duggan's family came to believe that this worldview affected the movement's perception of Duggan, when the conference participants learned that he was a British Jew who, as a child, had attended the Tavistock Clinic for counselling when his parents divorced.\n\nDuggan's first contact with the LaRouche movement was in Paris in January 2003, when he bought a copy of the LaRouche French-language newspaper, \"Nouvelle Solidarité\", from a booth near the British Institute, outside the Invalides station on the Paris Métro. The man who sold him the paper was Benoit Chalifoux, a writer for the newspaper and one of the movement's \"organizers\" or recruiters.\n\nDuggan was intensely opposed to the Iraq War, as were Chalifoux and his group of friends from the movement. Protests were taking place all over the world in the weeks leading up to the invasion of Iraq on 20 March 2003. Duggan began seeing more of Chalifoux's group and was invited to attend a Schiller Institute conference near Wiesbaden, the LaRouche movement's European headquarters. Duggan and his parents believed it was an anti-war conference. His mother searched for material about LaRouche on the web in vain, possibly she or her son misspelled the name as \"Laroche.\"\n\nDuggan and Chalifoux travelled to Wiesbaden on 21 March with eight other men. Duggan stayed in a youth hostel at first, then with two other recruits in an apartment belonging to two Schiller Institute managers.\n\nThe conference, \"How to Reconstruct a Bankrupt World,\" was held in Bad Schwalbach, near Wiesbaden, from 21 to 23 March. LaRouche was the keynote speaker, with a speech entitled \"Physical Geometry as Strategy.\" According to April Witt in \"The Washington Post\", he told the audience that George W. Bush was an unreformed drunk, Woodrow Wilson had founded the Ku Klux Klan from the White House, John F. Kennedy was killed by a domestic American operation, and the US was using the war in Iraq to \"ignite catastrophic global warfare.\" The plot to launch a world war was being influenced, he said, by people who \"like Hitler, admire Nietzsche, but being Jewish ... couldn't qualify for Nazi Party leadership, even though their fascism was absolutely pure! As extreme as Hitler! They sent them to the United States.\" The people behind the plot were the \"independent central-banking-system crowd, the slime-mold,\" he said, the same people who had brought Hitler to power in the 1930s.\n\nAfter the conference, Duggan attended a LaRouche Youth Movement cadre school in Wiesbaden with 60–70 others. Chalifoux, the recruiter who had accompanied him to Germany, returned to Paris. According to another potential recruit, there were hours of lectures, seminars and one-on-one meetings every day, as well as chanting and singing.\n\nDuggan reportedly stood out because he was British and Jewish. A document from the London Metropolitan Police, submitted to the first inquest, said the Schiller Institute and LaRouche Youth Movement blamed the Jewish people for the Iraq war and other global issues, and that \"Jeremiah's lecture notes and bulletins showed the anti-Semitic nature of [the] ideology.\" According to Duggan's mother, the Schiller Institute's scientific adviser, Dr. Jonathan Tennenbaum, told her that when Duggan heard the Jews being blamed for the war during a seminar, he had stood up and said, \"But I'm a Jew!\" One participant said the others put him \"through the wringer\" because of it.\n\nAccording to Witt, Duggan may have been placed under further pressure because he told the others he had attended the Tavistock Clinic as a child for counselling when his parents divorced. Duggan's conference notes showed that someone at the conference referred to the Tavistock as a \"brainwashing\" centre.\n\nDuggan and his French girlfriend had planned to meet in Paris on Tuesday, 25 March. Instead he called her that day, two days before his death, to say he had no money for the fare home and was unable to get a ride until Sunday. He told her \"very serious things\" were happening and that he would explain when he returned.\n\nOn 26 March he accompanied LaRouche members to Frankfurt to hand out LaRouche literature in the streets, then to see the Rembrandt collection at the Städel museum. When one member asked what he thought of it, he started crying. The woman invited him to step outside for some air. He kept repeating that he did not trust LaRouche, and said he wanted to go back to England. She told him he was free to leave and could phone her if he wanted to, which seemed to reassure him. She last saw him with one of his roommates sitting on the steps of the museum around 8:30 pm.\n\nOne of the Schiller Institute managers in whose apartment Duggan was staying told \"The Sunday Times\" that he and his roommate got back to the house around midnight. They had no key so the manager opened the door for them. According to the roommate (speaking after Duggan's death to Duggan's girlfriend), Duggan could not sleep and kept switching the lights on and off. He said he was unable to trust LaRouche and felt trapped.\n\nAt around 4:20 am—by now Thursday, 27 March—Duggan called his girlfriend on the roommate's mobile phone. She said he was speaking very quietly, sounded agitated and confused, complaining that he no longer knew what was true and real, and that someone was conducting experiments with computers and magnetic waves, perhaps on him. She asked him to take a train to Paris in the morning. According to the roommate, Duggan then telephoned his mother, after which he ran out of the house. Mrs. Duggan said the first call came at 5:24 am German time (4:24 am in the UK):\n\nAnd he said, \"Mum, I'm in ... big trouble ... You know this \"Nouvelle Solidarité\"?\" ... He said, \"I can't do this ... I want out.\" And at that point the phone was cut. And then it rang back again almost immediately. And the first thing that he said that time was, \"Mum, I'm frightened.\" I realised he was in such danger that I said to him, \"I love you.\" And then he said, \"I want to see you \"now\".\" ... I said, \"Well, where are you, Jerry?\" He said, \"Wiesbaden.\" And I said, \"How do you spell it?\" And he said, \"W-I-E-S.\" And then the phone was cut.\n\nAfter the calls, according to the roommate, Duggan asked, \"Why did you choose me?\" and said he wanted to go out for a cigarette. The roommate went too but pressed a doorbell by accident while looking for the light switch at the bottom of the stairs; he said this appeared to make Duggan panic and he ran off. He said he ran after Duggan briefly before going back to the apartment.\n\nJust over thirty minutes later, at about 6:00 am, two drivers heading into Wiesbaden town centre saw a man run toward them on the Berliner Straße (Bundesstraße 455), a four-lane dual carriageway. The spot, near an Aral garage, was around five kilometres (c. three miles) from the apartment in which Duggan had been staying, and not far from the LaRouche offices in the Wiesbaden suburb of Erbenheim. One of the drivers said Duggan ran toward him with outstretched arms. The car, a BMW, clipped him with the wing mirror. He appears to have fallen, but got up and continued running toward the traffic that was heading into town. Both drivers reported the incidents to police.\n\nAt 6:14 am, as the police were taking details, they were told that a man had run into a red Peugeot further ahead on the same road. The driver saw Duggan move onto the road in front of him. The car swerved from the inside lane to the outside, but the driver said Duggan leapt in front of the car, arms raised and mouth open. The car hit him, denting the passenger door and shattering the passenger window and windscreen, and throwing Duggan into the path of a blue Volkswagen Golf, which ran over him. He was certified dead at the scene at 6:35 am.\n\nThe view of the German police was that Duggan had arrived at that stretch of road after running 5 km from the apartment. Duggan's family complained that the police had failed to establish that. Other allegations included that he had spent the night at the nearby LaRouche offices and ran from there to the road, and that he had run onto the road from a car. Forensic reports commissioned by Erica Duggan suggested that he may have died elsewhere and been moved onto the road after the fact, a position the coroner rejected in 2015.\n\nWithin minutes of Duggan's second telephone call to her, Erica contacted the British emergency services and was advised to call her local police station in Colindale, Barnet. She told them she believed her son was in danger. They transferred her to the Metropolitan Police at Scotland Yard, but when she explained he had become involved with \"Nouvelle Solidarité\" they had no idea what she meant.\n\nAt 7:40 am Duggan's roommate telephoned his girlfriend in Paris to ask if she had heard from him; he said Duggan had left the apartment and had not returned. At around 11 am Erica rang the roommate's mobile phone; because he did not speak English, he passed it to a Schiller Institute manager. The manager reportedly told her the group was a news agency, adding, \"We cannot take responsibility for the actions of individuals. We think your son has psychological problems.\" She said she would call the local hospitals to see whether Duggan had been admitted. Shortly after this, the manager and Duggan's roommate, along with another member, handed his passport, bag and rucksack to the Wiesbaden police station. The manager told \"The Independent\": \"I believed he had psychological problems, based on the conversations he had with people. I don't know what happened on the night he died, but the Schiller Institute played no part in his death.\" The police report stated that the manager told them Erica had called \"since he had severe asthma and was not getting in touch with her.\" Later Erica said her son had not had asthma since childhood.\n\nAccording to one of those present, around 25 members of the movement were asked to assemble in the local LaRouche office that morning, in a meeting attended by Helga Zepp-LaRouche. They were told that Duggan had killed himself. A LaRouche recruiter from Paris told the meeting that Duggan had been to the Tavistock, apparently giving the impression that he had been there recently. Zepp-LaRouche reportedly said that Duggan might have been sent from London to harm LaRouche.\n\nWiesbaden police reportedly concluded within three hours that Duggan committed suicide. LaRouche officials were said to have told police that Duggan had been a patient at the Tavistock and had suffered from \"suicidal impulses.\" That view of him shaped the rest of the inquiry, according to \"The Sunday Times\".\n\nAn emergency doctor gave the cause of death as \"open, cranio-cerebral trauma following traffic accident,\" injuries that he said were consistent with the accident as described by the drivers. The accident investigator noted marks on Duggan's clothes consistent with having been in contact with the underside of a vehicle. The braking had left marks on the road; Duggan was lying about 23 metres beyond the point of impact. The investigator took 79 photographs of the scene, although the cars were moved before he arrived.\n\nThe Germans did not conduct an autopsy, because the cause of death had been established and there was no evidence of foul play. His clothes were not returned to his family and were assumed to have been destroyed. The police took no formal witness statements. Witness evidence was recorded as \"brief, sometimes contradictory, notes,\" according to \"The Daily Telegraph\". Nothing suggested that the drivers had any connection to the LaRouche movement or Duggan. The prosecutor closed the case after three months. In 2004 Dieter Arlett, the Wiesbaden public prosecutor, told the BBC:\n\nWe are 100 percent certain that it is suicide, suicide as we call it, that as a consequence of his own behaviour, and with no one else involved, he threw himself in front of a car, of several cars, and died on the third attempt.\n\nUnder German law, Arlett said that he could investigate further only if there existed \"concrete evidence of third-party involvement,\" and there was none; the Schiller Institute had been mentioned in connection with the death only because Duggan had attended an event of theirs. Officials maintained the same position in 2007 and 2009.\n\nDuggan's body was flown back to England on 31 March 2003, where a non-forensic post-mortem examination was conducted on 4 April by pathologist David Shove. Shove found head injuries, bruising on the backs of the arms and hands, blood in the lungs and stomach, and a full bladder. A blood sample showed no drugs or alcohol.\n\nShove was not called to attend the inquest, which took place in November 2003. Robert Hawthorne, an accident investigator, told the court that Duggan may only have appeared to leap in front of the cars: \"The drivers may have perceived that he leapt when in actual fact he was either running to clear the cars or what they saw was the post-impact movement of Jeremiah as he was flung around.\" The court heard testimony about the conference Duggan had attended. A Metropolitan Police memo was entered as evidence: \"The Schiller Institute and the LaRouche Youth Movement ... blames the Jewish people for the Iraq war and all the other problems in the world. Jeremiah's lecture notes and bulletins showed the anti-Semitic nature of [the] ideology.\" The coroner, Dr. William Dolman, delivered a narrative verdict:\n\nJeremiah Joseph Duggan received fatal head injuries when he ran into the road in Wiesbaden and was hit by two private motor cars. What other fact do we know that I must add? I really must add that he had earlier been in a state of terror. It is a word not commonly used in a Coroner's court but no other word would reflect his state of mind at the time.\n\nErica set up the \"Justice for Jeremiah\" campaign in April 2004 with legal support from the British Foreign Office. In 2005 she hand-delivered a list of questions to Shove, the pathologist who had performed the autopsy. When she showed him Duggan's autopsy report, he allegedly replied that Duggan had been \"severely beaten around the head\" and said he had not realised it had been a traffic accident. Shove declined to sign a statement to that effect and apparently could not be located for the second inquest.\n\nSix forensic experts hired by Erica examined Shove's autopsy report and photographs taken by accident investigators in Wiesbaden. A forensic pathologist suggested that bruises on Duggan's hands and arms were defensive injuries. Paul Canning, a forensic photographer formerly with the Metropolitan Police, and Alan Bayle, a forensic scientist, suggested that Duggan may have died elsewhere and been placed at the scene. Bayle argued that the Peugeot windscreen had been hit with a crowbar or a similar instrument, while Canning wrote that he found nothing to suggest that the cars had made contact with Duggan. Two other forensic experts expressed similar views.\n\nThose views were challenged during a High Court hearing in 2008 regarding the application for a new inquest. Contrary to the claim that there was no sign that Duggan had come into contact with the cars, there were \"traces on the underside of the Golf,\" according to Cecilia Ivimy on behalf of the Attorney General. She described the argument that the accident had been staged as requiring someone to have inflicted head injuries after the phone call to Erics, placed Duggan on the road, inflicted damage to two cars, scattered debris, and created skid marks, all without attracting attention. In 2010 the Federal Constitutional Court of Germany called the allegations outlandish. The \"Wiesbadener Kurier\" criticised what it saw as the defamation of \"two completely innocent motorists.\"\n\nRelying on the forensic reviews, Erica applied in May 2007 for a new inquest. A cross-party group of MPs signed an early day motion that month calling on the Attorney General to support the application. After protracted legal action by Erica, the High Court ordered the new inquest in May 2010.\n\nThe inquest took place over three days in May 2015 at North London Coroner's Court before the coroner Andrew Walker. Walker rejected the view that the accident had been staged, calling it implausible. The court heard from Catherine Picard, a French expert on cults, that Duggan might have experienced \"intense pressure and psychological violence\" at the conference, including one-on-one sessions, hours of lectures, and \"being subjected to repeated conspiracy theories and antisemitic discourse.\" Matthew Feldman, a historian at Teesside University and expert on the far right, testified that, if other participants had learned that Duggan was Jewish, British and had attended the Tavistock Clinic, \"it would have been taken very seriously by the movement.\" Walker delivered a narrative verdict:\n\n ... Jeremiah Duggan received fatal injuries following a collision with two cars on the Berliner Strasse and died in a road traffic collision. ... There are a number of unexplained injuries that suggest that Mr. Duggan may have been involved in an altercation at some stage before his death.\n\nHe added that Duggan's attendance at the conference, the methods used to recruit young people, Duggan having expressed that he was a Jew and British, and questioning what he was being told \"may have had a bearing on Mr. Duggan's death in the sense that it may have put him at risk from members of the organization and caused Mr. Duggan to become distressed and seek to leave.\" He said that he \"totally reject[ed] that this was a suicide.\"\n\nDuggan's family appealed unsuccessfully in 2006 to the Higher Regional Court in Frankfurt regarding the decision to close the German police investigation. Their appeal against that decision was rejected by Germany's Federal Constitutional Court in 2010.\n\nA second appeal to the Oberlandesgericht succeeded in 2012. In what the \"Berliner Zeitung\" described as an extremely unusual decision, the court ordered the Wiesbaden prosecutor to re-open the inquiry. The court said that a pedestrian leaving the LaRouche offices in Wiesbaden, in the direction of the town centre, would have reached exactly that junction in the Berliner Straße, and \"would have had to cross the four-lane road if he did not want or was unable to turn back.\"\n\nThe new investigation opened in April 2013. As of 2015 prosecutors were reportedly investigating allegations against two individuals, one German, one French, on suspicion of causing bodily harm resulting in death. Erica criticised the appointment of the same police officer who had presided over the case in 2003, accusing the German authorities of \"institutional racism\" akin to that of the Stephen Lawrence murder inquiry. In 2014 the Board of Deputies of British Jews asked Chancellor Angela Merkel to arrange an independent investigation, and in 2015 asked the British Foreign Secretary to raise the issue with the German government.\n\nIn 2006 LaRouche issued a statement saying the allegations were a hoax stemming from a campaign orchestrated by Dick Cheney, then Vice President of the United States, and Cheney's wife Lynne. In 2007 the LaRouche movement published a letter from the Metropolitan Police, dated 14 July 2003, that it said was obtained under the British Freedom of Information Act, in which an officer wrote that he had been assured the case had been fully investigated in Germany.\n\nThe Schiller Institute issued a statement in 2007: \"The Schiller Institute has always maintained that it had no involvement whatsoever in Jeremiah's death, and has expressed its sympathy to the Duggan family.\" In 2015 a spokesperson told \"Newsweek\" that the allegations were \"utterly preposterous\":\n\nAt no time has Ms Duggan ever presented any evidence or facts that refute the findings of the German authorities concerning the suicide of her son. Instead, over the last 12 years she and her representatives and collaborators have propounded wild conspiracies theories promulgated by the political enemies of Mr LaRouche in and around the British Monarchy and the circles of the now discredited former prime minister Tony Blair.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28820867", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28820867", "title": "Donna Mansell", "text": "Donna Mansell\n\nDonna Mansell (; 1983–2010) is a double heart transplant recipient who has inspired a campaign for Organ Donation education as well as counselling others in a similar situation from her hospital bed. Donna also promoted organ donation through media and charity events and was also the figurehad for the British Heart Foundation's Christmas fundraising drive. Donna's Campaign has been continued by her husband Aaran Mansell after her unfortunate death in July 2010.\n\nDonna Louise Davidson was born on July 14, 1983 and led a fairly normal childhood until she reached the age of 19. After being pregnant with her daughter Leonie for 33 weeks doctors soon realised that Donna had developed Dilated cardiomyopathy. Leonie was delivered by Caesarean section on 9 August 2002 while Donna was treated for heart failure. After 12 weeks of treatment was not successful, doctors realised that a heart transplant was the only option and on 2 November 2002 Donna received her first heart transplant at the Queen Elizabeth Hospital Birmingham. After her transplant Donna developed Transplant rejection a number of times requiring various hospital stays. Eventually doctors gained control and Donna continued her life until December 2004 when her brother James was diagnosed with cardiomyopathy and listed for a transplant. James received his heart transplant shortly after.\n\nIn April 2005 Donna started to feel short of breath and could barely walk. She was diagnosed with Chronic Organ rejection and her body had developed donor specific antibodies which were attacking her heart. This resulted in Donna being listed for another transplant as there was nothing that could be done to save this heart. Four months later Donna received heart transplant number two. In 2007 James died due to transplant complications which hit Donna hard as they had grown very close due to their illnesses. Shortly after Donna received the news that her daughter, Leonie, had also been diagnosed with Dilated cardiomyopathy. They also added that there was a fault in the TNNT2 Gene which was the cause of all their heart related problems.\n\nIn July 2008 Donna met Aaran Mansell and in February 2010 Donna and Aaran married at St Mary & All Saints church in Kidderminster where James's funeral had taken place a few years before.\n\nDonnas Dream is a campaign for more people to sign the organ donor register in the UK. It is run by Aaran Mansell in memory of and inspired by Donna Mansell in order to raise the amount of donor organs available for Organ Donation and ultimately Transplant \n"}
{"id": "20939536", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20939536", "title": "East Carter High School shooting", "text": "East Carter High School shooting\n\nThe East Carter High School shooting occurred on January 18, 1993, in Grayson, Kentucky, United States. The incident occurred when 17-year-old Gary Scott Pennington walked into an English classroom and fatally shot his teacher Deanna McDavid and head custodian Marvin Hicks, and held classmates hostage for 15 minutes before surrendering to police.\n\nOn Monday, January 18, 1993, Scott Pennington took a .38-caliber revolver that was owned by his father, and brought the weapon to school by concealing it in a duffel bag-type backpack.\n\nAt approximately 2:45 p.m. he entered his seventh-period English class and shot at his teacher Deanna McDavid. His first shot missed, with McDavid saying, \"Scott, what are you doing!\", to which Pennington replied, \"Shut up, bitch\". The second shot hit her in the forehead, and was fatal. Students inside her class believed this was an act that McDavid arranged for her drama club. The school custodian, Marvin Hicks, and social studies teacher Jack Calhoun entered the classroom to investigate the sounds. Pennington fatally shot Hicks in the abdomen, and aimed his pistol at Calhoun without shooting him. Witnesses reported that Hicks pushed a female student away from himself before he was shot. Mandy Morse, a student inside the classroom, wrote a farewell letter to her family due to the fear she would be killed. Some students recalled Pennington threatening to kill other students, while others recall him telling the class he would commit suicide.\n\nHe then held his classmates hostage before he allowed two students to leave the classroom shortly after. He then allowed students to leave the room in groups of two every minute, and allowed the last five hostages to leave the classroom at 3:01 p.m. He himself walked outside of the classroom, where he surrendered to two police officers waiting in the hallway adjacent to the classroom.\n\n\nThe identity of the shooter was originally protected at the time of his arrest, but was soon revealed to be 17-year-old Gary Scott Pennington. He had lived with his family in Elliott County, Kentucky his entire childhood, before moving to Carter County in August 1992. It was reported that Pennington had expressed frustration with moving to Carter County. His family was living in poverty in the years and months prior to the shooting, as the family could not afford plumbing and lacked sufficient electricity. His father, Gary Pennington, was an unemployed former laborer and coal miner who received monthly disability pensions, due to a coal mining accident. His mother Esta was a homemaker.\n\nPennington had excelled academically since elementary school, participating in the academic team since the fifth grade and winning the Eastern Kentucky regional science competition in the seventh grade. He attended Elliott County High School for grades nine to eleven, and taught himself calculus during his freshman year. After moving to Carter County, he joined the academic team at East Carter High School. He also developed a grudge against his English teacher Mrs. McDavid after she gave him a \"C\" as his midterm grade. The midterm grade was for an essay Pennington had written about the Stephen King novel \"Rage\"; the content of the essay concerned McDavid, given that some of his other writing likewise focused on \"violence, death, and dying\". McDavid even apparently brought her concerns before her colleagues.\n\nAfterward, he said he did not dislike Mrs. McDavid, but that his intention was to kill any two people in order to become eligible for the death penalty.\nBecause of his affiliation with the story written by Stephen King and portraying actions like the character Charlie Decker, all books that had been written by the author were taken out of the high school until recently when they added a few of the books back into the library.\n\nA Carter County grand jury indicted Pennington on two counts of second-degree murder and 22 counts of kidnapping on June 15, 1993. Due to the difficulty of seating an impartial jury, the trial venue was moved twice, first to Morgan County and then to Johnson County.\n\nOpening arguments in his trial began on February 9, 1995. Pennington entered a plea of guilty but mentally ill, was subsequently convicted and sentenced to life in prison without the possibility of parole for 25 years on February 28, 1995. He is currently imprisoned at the Kentucky State Reformatory in LaGrange, Kentucky after being transferred from the Kentucky State Penitentiary in Eddyville, Kentucky (see below).\n\nAt approximately 1:45 p.m. on Saturday, April 12, 2014, a contract food service employee at the Kentucky State Penitentiary was seriously assaulted by Pennington. The employee, JoAnne Smith, was hospitalized in stable condition. At the time of the assault, Pennington was placed in segregation at the prison pending an investigation by the Kentucky Department of Corrections and the Kentucky State Police. As a result of that investigation, Pennington was indicted by a Lyon County grand jury with first degree assault, which is a Class B felony in Kentucky. In July 2015, Pennington was convicted of first degree assault on JoAnne Smith in Lyon County and was sentenced to an additional 20 years in prison. In addition to the criminal conviction, Pennington was transferred to the Kentucky State Reformatory shortly after the assault and faced internal Department of Corrections charges.\n"}
{"id": "4279706", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4279706", "title": "Edifying Discourses in Diverse Spirits", "text": "Edifying Discourses in Diverse Spirits\n\nEdifying Discourses in Diverse Spirits, also Upbuilding Discourses in Various Spirits was published on March 13, 1847, by Søren Kierkegaard. The book is divided into three parts just as \"Either/Or\" was in 1843 and many of his other discourses were. Kierkegaard had been working toward creating a place for the concepts of guilt and sin in the conscience of the single individual. He discussed the ideas generated by both Johann von Goethe and Friedrich Hegel concerning reason and nature. This book is his response to the ideas that nature and reason are perfect.\n\nThe first part of the book is a challenge to those who say they are not guilty of anything. Kierkegaard plays the questioner and asks tough questions throughout the text, such as, \"What is patience? Is not patience the courage that freely takes upon itself the suffering that cannot be avoided?\" \"Are you now living in such a way that you are aware of being a single individual and thereby aware of your eternal responsibility before God.\" \"Is not evil, just like evil people, at odds with itself, divided in itself?\" \"What is it to be more ashamed before others than before oneself but to be more ashamed of seeming than being?\" \"Should not he who planted the ear hear? But is not the opposite conclusion just as beautiful and convincing: Should not he whose life is sacrificing love believe that God is love?\" \"What means do you use to perform your work; is the means just as important to you as the end, just exactly as important?\"\n\nThe second part has to do with the idea that nature is perfect. He goes back to Job as he did in his Four Upbuilding Discourses, 1843. He says, \"The silent friends did not compare Job with themselves—this did not happen until their respect (in which they silently held him) ceased and they broke the silence in order to attack the sufferer with speeches, but their presence prompted Job to compare himself with himself. No individual can be present, even though in silence, in such a way that his presence means nothing at all by way of comparison. At best, this can be done by a child, who indeed has a certain likeness to the lilies of the field and the birds of the air.\" \"God isolated the human being, made every human being this separate and distinct individual, which is implied in the unconditional character of those first thoughts. The individual animal is not isolated, is not unconditionally separate entity; the individual animal is a number and belongs under what that most famous pagan thinker has called the animal category: the crowd. The human being who in despair turns away from those first thoughts in order to plunge into the crowd of comparisons makes himself a number, regards himself as a beast, no matter whether he by way of comparison is distinguished or lowly. But with the lilies the worried one is isolated, far away from all human or, perhaps more correctly, inhuman comparisons between individuals.\"\n\nThe third part deals with the concept of the abstract and the concrete examples. Kierkegaard wrote of individuals known only as A and B in his first book, \"Either/Or\". He then made them less abstract by making A into the Young Man in \"Repetition\" (1843) and B into his guide, the psychiatrist Constantin Constantius. The same day that he published Repetition he published \"Fear and Trembling\" which showed Abraham as an individual who was alone with God as he considered whether to follow his commands. He continued writing until he came to the concrete human being named Christ and wrote about the joy there is in following Christ. He's not against the ethics of Hegel or the aesthetics of Goethe but thinks that following Christ is the one thing needful. And that double-mindedness is the beginning of the sickness of the spirit for the single individual.\n\nThe book begins with a dedication just as some of his \"Eighteen Upbuilding Discourses\" did, however, this book is not dedicated to his father, but to “That Single Individual”. He published these discourses and later wrote a longer dedication called \"The Crowd is Untruth\" where he wrote: This, which is now considerably revised and enlarged, was written and intended to accompany the dedication to \"that single individual,\" which is found in \"Upbuilding Discourses in Various Spirits.\" Copenhagen, Spring 1847.\n\nWalter Lowrie translated \"The Point of View of My Work as an Author\" by Kierkegaard in 1939, 1962 and included \"My Activity as a Writer\" by Soren Kierkegaard (1851) in the book. Here Kierkegaard wrote, \"I attached myself again religiously to \"that individual\", to whom the next essential work (after the Concluding Postscript) was dedicated. I refer to \"Edifying Discourses in Divers Spirits\", or rather the first part of that book which is an exhortation to confession. Perhaps nobody noticed it the first time I employed the category \"that individual\", and nobody paid much attention to the fact that it was repeated in stereotyped form in the preface of every number of the \"Edifying Discourses\". Religiously speaking, there is no such thing as a public, but only individuals; for religion is seriousness and seriousness is the individual.\"\n\nThis book has a preface and Kierkegaard has said to pay attention to the prefaces in his book of the same name. The book also has a dedication. Here is the first half of his preface. Kierkegaard thinks an individual must bring the occasion (the need) along with him or her to become the learner. \n\n\"On the Occasion of a Confession\" was a postscript to the first section of \"Three Discourses on Imagined Occasions\" (On the Occasion of a Confessional Service). This section has also been titled \"Purity of Heart is to Will One Thing\"\n\nKierkegaard asks how an individual can find out if he or she is on the \"right\" path in life. Confession and repentance before God is his answer with a warning about double-mindedness. If a single individual were to ask him or herself all the questions asked in this section and try discover all the evasions used to keep from acting single-mindedly, that person would discover that it is very difficult to say I am innocent. In \"Works of Love\" (1847) he asks his reader to \"Imagine an enthusiast who enthusiastically wills only one thing and enthusiastically wants to sacrifice everything for the good.\" Here he is writing about the inwardness of prayer. He says, \n\nHe asks, \"What does the conscience want to emphasize by means of the awareness that you are a single individual?\" (Hong p. 132) He answers this way: To will, in the decision, to be and to remain with the good is truth's brief expression for willing to do everything, and in this expression the equality is maintained that recognizes no distinction with regard to that more essential diversity of life or of the human condition: to be acting or to be suffering, since the one who is suffering can, in the decision, also be with the good. …. With respect to the highest, with respect to willing to do everything, it makes no difference at all, God be praised, how big or how little the task. Oh, how merciful the eternal is to us human beings! Soren Kierkegaard, \"Upbuilding Discourses in Various Spirits\", Hong p. 79–80\n\nLater, in Works of Love, Kierkegaard sums up the essence of what it means to have a pure heart using a metaphors from Archimedes and the New Testament. \n\nThe first discourse (\"To Be Contented with Being a Human Being\") deals with comparison and choice and how to trust God with the choice once made. He may have been echoing Goethe's Propylaen in which Goethe had written \"The youth, when Nature and Art attract him, thinks that with a vigorous effort he can soon penetrate into the innermost sanctuary; the man, after long wanderings, finds himself still in the outer court. Such an observation has suggested our title. It is only on the step, in the gateway, the entrance, the vestibule, the space between the outside and the inner chamber, between the sacred and the common, that we may ordinarily tarry with our friends.\" Kierkegaard writes about nature differently than Goethe but similarly because both see Nature as teachers of human kind and Kierkegaard wrote very much about \"the inner being\"; the soul.\n\nKierkegaard wrote a great story about a lily and a naughty bird. It begins like this: \n\nThe second discourse deals with diverting oneself from worries by \"learning from the bird how glorious it is to be a human being.\" David F. Swenson translated several of Kierkegaard's discourses which were published in 1958 through the efforts of Paul L Holmer. Kierkegaard wrote of \"The Glory of Our Common Humanity\". This was the second of three discourses that were all based on the text from Matthew 6 verses 24 to the end. It was titled \"How Glorious It Is to Be a Human Being\" by Howard V Hong when he translated Kierkegaard's book in 1993.\n\nThe structure of the three discourses about the lilies and the birds is as follows: the first is esthetic, the second ethical, the third religious. \"Journal and Papers of Soren Kierkegaard\" VIII A 1 1847\n\nKierkegaard writes about the gift given to human beings that nature doesn't have, conscience. With the use of conscience we can know about time and the future. Something nature cannot know. He sums the human ability to love and the distinctiveness of nature up in Works of Love, which he published four months later. \n\nThe third discourse was titled \"What Blessed Happiness is Promised in Being a Human Being\" by Howard V Hong. Kierkegaard is constantly stressing the importance there is in being a human being instead of a beast in the field because you have been given the gift of choice. \"A choice. My listener, do you know how to express in a single word anything more glorious! If you talked year in and year out, could you mention anything more glorious than a choice, to have choice! It is certainly true that the sole blessing is to choose rightly, but certainly choice itself is the glorious condition.\" Kierkegaard began writing about this choice in his first book \"Either/Or\" where he wrote first as the aesthetic and then as the ethicist. Hegel thinks that history and philosophy should come afterwards and explain events. Kierkegaard thinks its better to come beforehand.Only one word more concerning the desire to teach the world what it ought to be. For such a purpose philosophy at least always comes too late. Philosophy, as the thought of the world, does not appear until reality has completed its formative process, and made itself ready. History thus corroborates the teaching of the conception that only in the maturity of reality does the ideal appear as counterpart to the real, apprehends the real world in its substance, and shapes it into an intellectual kingdom. When philosophy paints its grey in grey, one form of life has become old, and by means of grey it cannot be rejuvenated, but only known. The owl of Minerva takes its flight only when the shades of night are gathering.\nSpiritually understood, temporality and eternity are two magnitudes that are to be weighed. But in order to deliberate the person in turn must be a third party or have a third position in relation to the two magnitudes. This is the choice: he weighs, he deliberates, he chooses. Here, however there is never any chance that the two magnitudes weigh equally much, which can of course happen with a scale, it indicates the relation as one of equality. No, praise God, that can never happen, because properly understood the eternal already has a certain overweight and the person who refuses to understand this can never begin really to deliberate. So a person deliberates before he begins. \n\nKierkegaard stresses not only having a choice but learning how to use it. He concludes, \"But then in his sadness out there with the lily and the bird the worried one did indeed acquire something other than his worry to think about; he began to consider what blessed happiness is promised in being a human being. Then let the lily wither and let its loveliness become indiscernible; let the leaf fall to the ground and the bird fly away; let it become dark on the fields—God's kingdom does not change with the seasons! So let the rest be needed for a long time or a short time, let all these things have their moment when they are lacking or possessed, their moment is a subject of discussion until in death they are eternally forgotten—God's kingdom is still that which is to be sought first but which ultimately will also last through all eternities, and \"if that which will be abolished was glorious, that which remains will be more glorious,: and if it was hard to live in want, then it must indeed be only an easier separation to die to want!\n\nA.S Aldworth and W.S. Ferrie from Cambridge University translated \"The Gospel of Sufferings\" in 1955. The following is from his introduction. \n\nNow he begins to write of the meaning and joy there is in following Christ. It wasn't the first thing he wrote about but he did write about learning, over time, to follow Christ and while learning to also learn to confess, repent and accept as well as give forgiveness. His emphasis has been on seeking God's kingdom first (Matthew 6:33) and learning to be \"silent before God\".\n\nHis first three texts are from Luke 14:27 \"Whoever does not carry his cross and come after me cannot be my disciple.\" Matthew 11:30 \"My yoke is beneficial, and my burden light.\" and \"It is said of him the Lord Jesus Christ: Although he was a son, he learned obedience from what he suffered\" Hebrews 5:8. Acts 5:41 Kierkegaard writes about why it might not be so great to have the \"distinction\" of being an apostle. \"they went away joyful because they had been deemed worthy to be scorned for the sake of Christ's name\". He concluded this way: \n\nKierkegaard compared a pound of gold and a pound of feathers. He views the pound of feathers as a lesser weight because of the value of gold compared to feathers. He then asks the reader to decide if a pound of temporality is equal to a pound of eternity. Feathers and gold and temporality and eternity and numbers all have value in this world. He has seven different discourses in this third section. He seems to be using religious numbers generally while writing but always referring to Christianity specifically.\n\nKierkegaard seems to have fulfilled his goal presented in Concluding Unscientific Postscript, where he said it had become clear to him that people had forgotten what it means to be religious (confession and repentance before God) and had also forgotten what it means to be a human being and had therefore also forgotten what it means to try to become a Christian. He put it this way. \n\n\"Edifiying Discourses in Diverse Spirits\", also \"Upbuilding Discourses in Various Spirits\" was published on March 13, 1847, and is one of the first books in Søren Kierkegaard's second authorship. His first authorship included all of his books up to and including \"\" which was published March 30, 1846. He had just published his \"Concluding Unscientific Postscript\" to \"Philosophical Fragments\" on February 27, 1846. He wrote both pseudonymous books as well as books signed by his own name. His \"Eighteen Upbuilding Discourses\" were all signed by Soren Kierkegaard as author while other books, such as, \"Either/Or\", \"Repetition\", and \"The Concept of Anxiety\" were published under pseudonyms. Howard V. Hong says the book had no record of sales and was not reprinted in Kierkegaard's lifetime.\n\nPreviously Kierkegaard had published his own books through two different bookstores, Bookdealer P. G. Philipsen \"Three Upbuilding Discourses, 1843\" and C.A. Reitzel's, Printed by Biance Luno Press \"Repetition\". This book was published \"on an honorarium basis\" through another Danish book publisher, Reitzel Forlag. The publishing cost was minimum.\n\nThe first section was translated into English in 1938 by Douglas V. Steere and titled \"Purity of Heart Is To Will One Thing\". Steere also wrote the introduction to David F Swenson's 1946 translation of \"Works of Love\". Howard V. and Edna H. Hong translated all the discourses and Princeton University Press published them in 1993. Scholars generally paid more attention to his pseudonymous writings than his discourses.\n\nHarold Victor Martin published \"Kierkegaard, the Melancholy Dane\" (1950) and had this to say about this book: \nRobert L Perkins of Stetson University edited \"The International Kierkegaard Commentary Upbuilding Discourses in Various Spirits\" in 2005. This book presents scholarly perspectives regarding from people interested in the writings of Soren Kierkegaard. He states that A.S. Aldworth and W.S. Ferrie published \"Upbuilding Discourses in Various Spirits\" in three parts \"Purify your Hearts\" (1937), \"Consider the Lilies\" (1940) and \"Gospel of Suffering\" (1955), the 1955 edition was reprinted in an American edition in 1964. Gospel of Sufferings and The Lilies of the Field were translated by David F Swenson and Lillian Marvin Swenson in 1948. Perkin's book is in External Links below.\n\nDouglas V. Steere wrote a lengthy introduction to his 1938 publication of the first part of Upbuilding Discourses in Various Spirits. \"Purify your Heart\" of 1937 became \"Purity of Heart is to Will One Thing\" in the hands of Steere in 1938. He says Eduard Geismar (1871–1939), the Danish scholar, said of the book, \"It seems to me that nothing that he has written has sprung so directly out of his relationship with God as this address. Anyone who wishes to understand Kierkegaard properly will do well to begin with it.\"\n\nSteere wrote \"Doors Into Life\" in 1948 and devoted his fourth chapter to Kierkegaard and \"Purity of Heart\". He said, \"In a strangely universal way, Kierkegaard is both ancient and modern, both a fierce desert prophet and a metropolitan sophisticate who is all too well schooled in the artifices of modern life to be deceived by them.\"\n\nGeismar lectured on Kierkegaard at Princeton University in 1936. He wrote the following about this book, \n\nHoward V Hong translated the wrote book in 1993 along with his wife Edna H Hong. It was translated again in 2005. Hong's 1993 introduction surmised that Kierkegaard perhaps published 500 copies of this book during his lifetime.\n\n\"Three Discourses on Imagined Occasions\" & \"Upbuilding Discourses in Various Spirits\" were reviewed together in 1994 by Karl Dusza for \"First Things Magazine\" He wrote \n\nKierkegaard wrote about the expectation of the Christian. The difference Christ made in the world is that he took away the burdens of the Christian. Kierkegaard wrote much about the consciousness of sin and wrote about the difference Christianity makes. \n\nJames Collins, from Saint Louis University, wrote the following about Kierkegaard's \"Gospel of Suffering\" in 1953. \"Find a point which is under fire by an atheist of the nineteenth century and which is also defended by a seventeenth century man of faith and you have found an incontrovertibly religious belief. Such is the case with suffering, which is a scandal to a Feuerbach and a matter of glory to a Pascal, but to both a distinguishing note of the Christian mode of existence. In the degree that it promotes a meditative inwardness, Christianity makes us aware of God's supreme goodness and our own distance from, and hostility towards, His holiness. A religious sense of one's own sinfulness leads neither to morbid despair nor to rationalization. It issues in a voluntary acceptance of suffering as a way of atoning for sin to God, the just judge, and a way of approaching closer to God the redeemer. In a series of discourses entitled \"The Gospel of Suffering\", Kierkegaard establishes the relation between guilt, suffering, and the triumph of faith, much after the manner of Luther's dialectical treatment of the theme of the sinner as a believer.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2629179", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2629179", "title": "George Polk", "text": "George Polk\n\nGeorge Polk (17 October 1913 – May 1948) was an American journalist for CBS who was murdered during the Greek Civil War, in 1948.\n\nDuring World War II, Polk enlisted with a Naval Construction Battalion. After the invasion of Guadalcanal, the first element of Construction Unit Base 1 (CUB-1), an advance fuel and supply base, landed on 16 August 1942. This element was commanded by Ensign George W. Polk, USNR, and consisted of five officers and 118 enlisted personnel, all navy petty officers of aviation support ratings. CUB-1 later received a Presidential Unit Citation for its service. Polk also performed duty as a \"volunteer\" dive bomber and reconnaissance pilot. He was wounded, suffered from malaria and was hospitalized for almost a year.\n\nPolk disappeared in Greece and was found dead a few days later on Sunday 16 May 1948, shot at point-blank range in the back of the head, and with hands and feet tied. Polk had been covering the civil war in Greece between the right wing government and communists and had been critical of both sides. He had also alleged that a few officials in the Greek government had embezzled $250,000 in foreign aid ($2.5 million in 2016 dollars) from the Truman Administration, a charge that was never proved. Polk had been particularly outspoken in his criticism of the Truman government's unqualified support for the rightist authoritarian regime in Greece.\n\nIn the late 1970s, the story emerged as to how AMAG (American Mission for Aid to Greece) authorities helped the Greek police frame two young communists for his death. A communist journalist, Gregorios Staktopoulos, was tried and convicted of helping Vaggelis Vasvanas and Adam Mouzenidis, members of the illegal communist army, commit the murder. The communist guerilla radio station claimed that Adam Mouzenidis was already dead, having been killed in an aerial bombing by the Hellenic Air Force, when Polk was murdered. Staktopoulos himself maintained that the confession that led to his conviction was obtained through torture. In fact, it was later revealed that Adam Mouzenidis had arrived at Salonica, where he was allegedly introduced to Polk, two days after Polk's murder, and Vasvanas was not in Greece at the time. An investigation by James G. M. Kellis (also known as Killis), a former OSS officer with knowledge of Greek political circles and power brokers, concluded that Greek communist circles lacked the power and influence to commit the murder and cover it up. Kellis worked on contract for the Wall Street law firm of William 'Wild Bill' Donovan, the former head of OSS, who was hired by journalist Walter Lippman to investigate the case. Following Kellis' conclusion that it was more likely Polk had been murdered by right-wing groups within or affiliated to the Greek government, the investigation was halted and Kellis recalled to Washington. At the time the US government was financially supporting the Greek government to prevent a communist take-over of the country. The British government had supported the Greek government throughout 1941–1945, but this became a financial impossibility after the war.\n\nPolk had married Rea Coccins (also known as Rhea Kokkonis), a Greek national and ex-stewardess, seven months prior to his death. They had no children. After being allegedly harassed and threatened by the Greek government, Rea fled to the U.S. where she was debriefed by Donovan's law firm. She became friendly with Barbara Colby, the wife of William Colby, a former OSS officer attached to Donovan's firm, who later would become director of the CIA.\n\nReporters in New York city started a fundraising project to send an independent investigation committee to Greece, and from this effort the \"newsmen's commission\" was formed. Members included Ernest Hemingway, William Polk (George Polk's brother), William A. Price (Polk's cousin) and Homer Bigart. This was soon however eclipsed in media coverage by the \"Lippman Committee\", consisting mostly of Washington journalists with Walter Lippman as chairman and James Reston of \"The New York Times\".\n\nWithin months of his death, a group of American journalists created the George Polk Awards for outstanding radio or television journalism. These awards were modeled after the Pulitzer Prize which is awarded for outstanding print journalism in newspapers.\n\nIn February 2007, Polk's \"status as a symbol of journalistic integrity\" was challenged by historian Richard Frank, who concluded that Polk made false claims about his service record in World War II. Frank examined the claim, repeated by Edward R. Murrow, that Polk had commanded a unit of 119 Marines on Guadacanal, flew a fighter plane that shot down 11 Japanese aircraft and won a Purple Heart. He concluded that it is not consistent with the available documentation. Frank said that \"the inescapable conclusion is that George Polk did not simply verbally recount false tales of his wartime exploits to his family and to his journalist colleagues, he actually forged documents to buttress his stories.\"\nGeorge Polk's brother, William, replied to this attack, which he called slanderous, in a letter to the Guardian Monday March 19, 2007. He pointed out that Frank did not discuss a single article Polk ever wrote and that his military record is amply substantiated in a range of military documents, including a picture of Polk being decorated by Vice-Admiral John McCain on November 30, 1943, on behalf of the \"Airplane Cruiser Detachment for their heroic role during the Battle for the Solomons.\" \n\nIn April 2007, Frank responded to William Polk's letters and to what he considered a baffling silence from journalists that greeted his charges.\n\nOn October 5, 2007, the United States Postal Service announced that it would honor five journalists of the 20th century times with first-class rate postage stamps, to be issued on Tuesday, April 22, 2008: Martha Gellhorn, John Hersey, George Polk, Rubén Salazar, and Eric Sevareid. Postmaster General Jack Potter announced the stamp series at the Associated Press Managing Editors Meeting in Washington.\n\nPolk was related to US Presidents James Knox Polk and Andrew Jackson.\nGeorge Polk grew up in Fort Worth, Texas. He was a 1938 graduate of the University of Alaska.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18116427", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18116427", "title": "Gleb Svyatoslavich", "text": "Gleb Svyatoslavich\n\nGleb Svyatoslavich ( 1052 – 30 May 1078) was Prince of Tmutarakan and Novgorod. He ruled Tmutarakan under the overall authority of his father Sviatoslav Iaroslavich, Prince of Chernigov. He was twice expelled from his principality by one of his cousins Rostislav Vladimirovich.\n\nHis father appointed him prince of Novgorod in 1067 or 1068. He suppressed a rebellion incited by a sorcerer against the bishop of the town. Later he was expelled from Novgorod, and was killed by the Chudes. The \"Russian Primary Chronicle\" writes that he \"was kindly toward the poor and hospitable to strangers, zealous toward the church, warm in faith, peaceful, and fair in appearance\".\n\nGleb was the eldest of the fours sons of Sviatoslav Iaroslavich, Prince of Chernigov by his first wife, Killikiya. According to historian Martin Dimnik, Gleb was born around 1049. He was named after his father's holy uncle, Gleb. His father appointed him to rule Tmutarakan, an important port by the Strait of Kerch, but the year of his appointment is unknown.\n\nAccording to the \"Russian Primary Chronicle\", Gleb's cousin Rostislav Vladimirovich \"fled to Tmutorakan\" in 1064. He expelled Gleb from Tmutorakan and \"occupied his principate for himself\". Although Gleb was restored by his father in 1065, once Sviatoslav Iaroslavich had returned with his army to Chernigov, Rostislav invaded again and displaced Gleb from power once more.\n\nHowever, the Byzantine \"katepano\" or governor of Cherson poisoned Rostislav who died on 3 February 1067. According to the \"Life of Feodosy\", the citizens of Tmutorakan requested the monk Nikon the Great to persuade Sviatoslav Iaroslavich to again appoint Gleb as their prince. The saintly monk succeeded and Gleb returned to Tmutarakan. According to the inscription of the \"Stone of Tmutarakan\", Gleb had the width of the frozen Strait of Kerch measured in the winter of 1067-68.\n\nGleb was transferredaccording to historian Martin Dimnik, by his fatherfrom Tmutarakan to Novgorod in 1067 or 1068. A distant relative of his, Vseslav Briacheslavich lay siege to Novgorod \"on October 23, the day of the Lord's brother, St James, a Friday, at the sixth hour of the day\", according to the \"Chronicle of Novgorod\". However, Gleb and the Novgorodians routed him on the brook Gzen near the town.\n\nGleb's rule in Novgorod was confirmed when his father became the Grand Prince of Kiev in 1073. According to the Hypatian version of the \"Russian Primary Chronicle\", Gleb visited his father in Kiev and witnessed the death of the saintly Abbot Feodosy of the Monastery of the Caves in 1074. He seems to have been on friendly terms with his cousin, Vladimir Monomach whose first son was born in his court at Novgorod. A late sourceVasily Tatishchev's compilation of medieval chronicleswrites that Sviatoslav Iaroslavich appointed Gleb and Vladimir Monomach to command the Rus' troops sent to fight against the Bulgarians at Cherson upon the request of the Byzantine Emperor Michael VII Ducas, but the source's reliability is doubtful.\n\nThe \"Russian Primary Source\" narrates that a \"magician\" arrived in Novgorod and stirred up the townsfolk against the bishop. The magician planned to murder the prelate but Gleb and his \"druzhina\" or retinue remained loyal to him. Gleb dared the sorcerer who had stated that he could foretell the future to predict \"what was about to happen that very day\", according to the \"Russian Primary Chronicle\". The magician declared that he would \"perform great miracles\", but Gleb pull out an axe from his cloth and killed him. After the magician's death, his followers broke up.\n\nGleb's father died on 27 December 1076. According to Novgorodian sources, the citizens of the town rose in revolt and dethroned Gleb in 1078. He fled beyond the lands beyond the river Volkhov, known as Zavoloch'e, where the Chudes killed him on 30 May. His body was transferred to Chernigov where he was buried in the Holy Savior Cathedral on 23 July. No source makes mention of Roman's marriage or his children, suggesting that he never married and died childless.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53322329", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53322329", "title": "Human Problem Solving", "text": "Human Problem Solving\n\nHuman Problem Solving (1972) is a book by Allen Newell and Herbert A. Simon.\n"}
{"id": "3533062", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3533062", "title": "John Leach (Royal Navy officer)", "text": "John Leach (Royal Navy officer)\n\nJohn Catterall \"Jack\" Leach, (1 September 1894 – 10 December 1941) was a British naval officer. He was the only captain of the battleship during her short period in service.\n\nVery soon after the \"Prince of Wales\" entered active service in 1941, the ship fought under Leach's command in the Battle of the Denmark Strait, and suffered damage fighting the German battleship \"Bismarck\". However, damage inflicted by the \"Prince of Wales\" caused the \"Bismarck\" to lose fuel, forcing the latter to attempt to return to a base in occupied France.\n\nDespite a proposal to court-martial Leach for breaking off the action with the \"Bismarck\" after the \"Hood\" had sunk, he was awarded the Distinguished Service Order for his part. In the 1960 film \"Sink the Bismarck!\" Leach was played by actor Esmond Knight, who had been on the \"Prince of Wales\"' bridge with Leach during the Battle of the Denmark Strait and was partially blinded when the ship was hit by \"Bismarck\"<nowiki>'s</nowiki> gunfire.\n\nIn late 1941, \"Prince of Wales\" formed part of Force Z sent to Singapore. Off the coast of Malaya, she was sunk by the Japanese. Captain Leach apparently abandoned \"Prince of Wales\" at the very last minute, but did not survive the vessel's sinking. His body was seen floating in the water a short time after the sinking.\n\nHis son was Henry Leach (1923–2011), who was First Sea Lord of the Royal Navy during the Falklands War.\n\nHein, David. “Vulnerable: HMS \"Prince of Wales\" in 1941.” \"Journal of Military History\" 77, no. 3 (July 2013): 955–989. Abstract online: http://www.smh-hq.org/jmh/jmhvols/773.html\n\nWillis, Matthew B. 'In the Higherst Traditions of the Royal Navy: The Life of Captain John Leach, MVO, DSO'. The History Press, 2011.\n"}
{"id": "3246041", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3246041", "title": "Kalbe Abid", "text": "Kalbe Abid\n\nMaulana Syed Kalbe Abid Naqvi (مولانا سيد كلب عابد نقوى) was a mujtahid from Lucknow, India who preached Shia Islam His father was Syed Kalbe Hussain and grandfather Syed Aqa Hasan. His son, Syed Kalbe Jawad is also a scholar and the chief of the Shia population in Lucknow, India. He died in 1986 after being involved in a car crash while on his way to read a majlis. He earned respect from people of all walks of life and different religions. His death called for one of the biggest mourning gatherings of Lucknow ever. He was highly regarded by people of all faiths for his excellence in understanding of religion. His final 10 set of majlises which he read in Imambara Ghufran Ma'ab in 1986 has been entitled \"Majlis-e-Azeem\".\n"}
{"id": "751502", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=751502", "title": "Lone wolf (terrorism)", "text": "Lone wolf (terrorism)\n\nA lone wolf, lone-wolf terrorist, or lone actor, is someone who prepares and commits violent acts alone, outside of any command structure and without material assistance from any group. He or she may be influenced or motivated by the ideology and beliefs of an external group and may act in support of such a group. In its original sense, a \"lone wolf\" is an animal or person that generally lives or spends time alone instead of with a group.\n\nObservers note the attacks are a relatively rare type of terrorist attack but have been increasing in number, and that it is sometimes difficult to tell whether an actor has received outside help and what appears to be a lone wolf attack may actually have been carefully orchestrated from outside.\n\nThe term \"lone wolf\" was popularized by white supremacists Alex Curtis and Tom Metzger in the 1990s. Metzger advocated individual or small-cell underground activity, as opposed to above-ground membership organizations, envisaging \"warriors acting alone or in small groups who attacked the government or other targets in 'daily, anonymous acts.'\"\n\nTerrorism expert Brian Michael Jenkins of the RAND Corporation prefers the term \"stray dog\" to \"lone wolf\". According to Jenkins, most individuals involved in such attacks \"skulk about, sniffing at violence, vocally aggressive but skittish without backup\".\nThough these individuals seem to be acting alone, there are often ties between lone wolves and terrorist organisations for example, terrorist backed online content.\n\nThe term \"lone wolf\" is used by US law enforcement agencies and the media to refer to individuals undertaking violent acts of terrorism outside a command structure. The FBI and San Diego Police's investigation into the activities of a self-professed white supremacist, Alex Curtis, was named Operation Lone Wolf, \"largely due to Curtis' encouragement of other white supremacists to follow what Curtis refers to as 'lone wolf' activism\".\n\nThe term lone wolf is used to distinguish terrorist actions carried out by individuals from those coordinated by large groups. Terrorist attacks that are carried out by small cells are not classified as lone wolf attacks. Lone wolf attacks are far more rare than attacks carried out by groups. Since 1940, there have only been around 100 successful lone wolf attacks in the United States. The number of attacks is increasing, however, and has grown each year since 2000. Lone wolves generally come from different demographics than far right attackers as well. As compared to those on the far right, lone wolf attackers who become inspired by al-Qaeda and ISIS tend to be younger and better educated. According to studies, lone wolves have more in common with mass murderers than they do with members of the organized terrorist groups that often inspire them.\n\nWhile the lone wolf acts to advance the ideological or philosophical beliefs of an extremist group, they act on their own, without any outside command or direction. The lone wolf's tactics and methods are conceived and directed solely on their own; in many cases, such as the tactics described by Curtis, the lone wolf never has personal contact with the group they identify with. As such, it is considerably more difficult for counter-terrorism officials to gather intelligence on lone wolves, since they may not come into contact with routine counter-terrorist surveillance.\n\nA 2013 analysis by Sarah Teich, a research assistant at the International Institute for Counter-Terrorism, found five emerging trends in Islamist lone wolf terrorism in North America and western Europe between 1990 and 2013:\n\nIn the United States, lone wolves may present a greater threat than organized groups, and terrorists have not been limited to Muslims. According to the \"Christian Science Monitor,\" \"With the exception of the attacks on the World Trade Center, experts say the major terrorist attacks in the United States have been perpetrated by deranged individuals who were sympathetic to a larger cause – from Oklahoma City bomber Timothy McVeigh to the Washington area sniper John Allen Muhammad,\" both native-born Americans.\n\nAccording to the \"Financial Times\", counter-terrorism officials refer to \"lone individuals known to authorities but not considered important enough to escalate investigations\" as \"known wolves\".\n\nSome groups actively advocate lone wolf actions. Anti-abortion militant terrorist group The Army of God uses \"leaderless resistance\" as its organizing principle. According to \"The New York Times\", in news analysis of the Boston Marathon bombings, the Al-Qaeda activist Samir Khan, publishing in \"Inspire\", advocated individual terrorist actions directed at Americans and published detailed recipes online.\n\nLone wolf terrorists are frequently thought to only be Muslims, however, this is not always the case. Lone wolf terrorists may sympathize with and consider themselves part of larger groups, but they are not truly a part of them. Often, the attacks are attributed to people who have a mixture of political and personal grievances. The attackers can have no actual affiliation to the group that claims them, but instead become radicalized online and through external media outlets.\n\nA large number of terrorists determined by authorities to have been lone wolf attacks inspired by ISIS and/or its ideology, were later found to have been recruited, trained and directed remotely by ISIL to carry out the attacks.\n\nLone wolf terrorists are highly likely to be afflicted by a mental illness. Studies have found that more than 40% of lone wolf terrorists have been diagnosed at some point in their life with a mental illness. This puts lone wolves as being 13.5 times more likely to suffer from a mental illness than a member of an organized terrorist group, such as al-Qaeda or ISIS.\n\nMental health challenges are thought to make some individuals among the many who suffer from certain \"psychological disturbances,\" vulnerable to being inspired by extremist ideologies to commit acts of lone wolf terrorism.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nWorks cited\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30952045", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30952045", "title": "Lump (dog)", "text": "Lump (dog)\n\nLump (1956 – 29 March 1973), was a Dachshund owned by David Douglas Duncan who lived with artist Pablo Picasso for six years, and featured in several of his works.\n\nBorn in Stuttgart, Germany, and named after the German word for \"rascal\", the dog was acquired by David Douglas Duncan, an American photographer. Lump was purchased at the age of three months from a German family in order to act as a companion for Duncan's Afghan Hound, Kubla. The two dogs did not get along well, with the larger Afghan treating Lump much like a toy, rolling him around Duncan's apartment.\n\nLump first met Picasso on 19 April 1957 at La Californie, Picasso's hillside mansion in Cannes. His owner, David Douglas Duncan, had photographed Picasso for the first time during the previous year. On this occasion he chose to bring along Lump, as the Dachshund didn't get along with his other dog. While having lunch with his future wife Jacqueline Roque and Duncan, Picasso enquired if the dog had ever had a plate of his own. When Duncan responded no, Picasso picked up a brush and paint that were on the table and painted a portrait of Lump on his own dinner plate. With the work dated and inscribed to Lump, he handed the plate to Duncan as a gift. The dog felt immediately at home and stayed with Picasso for the next six years at La Californie, living with Picasso's Boxer Yan and a goat named Esmeralda. Duncan spoke of Lump and Picasso, \"This was a love affair. Picasso would take Lump in his arms. He would feed him from his hand. Hell, that little dog just took over. He ran the damn house.\"\n\nDuncan would return to visit Picasso during this time, and photographed the artist with Lump on several occasions along with Picasso's children. While Picasso preferred to work alone, he would often be accompanied by Lump. In one series of photographs, he made a rabbit out of a sugar impregnated cardboard cake box for the dog, who carried it into the garden to eat. \n\nDuncan spoke of Lump's stay with Picasso, \"Lump had an absolutely pampered life there. Picasso once said, ‘Lump, he’s not a dog, he’s not a little man, he’s somebody else.’ Picasso had many dogs, but Lump was the only one he took in his arms.\"\n\nIn 1964, during a visit with Picasso, Duncan was informed that Lump was unwell. The dog was suffering from a spinal condition leaving him without the use of his back legs and was being looked after by a local vet in Cannes. Duncan visited the vet and was informed that the condition could not be cured, and the vet was no longer feeding him. Duncan sought a second opinion, taking back the dog, he drove it to Stuttgart, Germany, where he found a vet who was willing to treat Lump. The treatment took several months, but Lump would go on to live for another ten years, albeit walking as Duncan would describe \"a bit like a drunken sailor\". He died ten days before Picasso, on 29 March 1973.\n\nThe painted plate that Picasso created on their first meeting was donated to the Harry Ransom Center at the University of Texas at Austin by Duncan in 2011. Similar painted plates have sold at auction for between $20,000 to $90,000.\n\nPicasso painted 44 studies of Diego Velázquez's painting \"Las Meninas\" between 17 August and 30 December 1957; Lump appeared in 15 of them. The series were donated to the Museu Picasso in Barcelona.\n\nLump was mentioned in \"Epic Rap Battles of History\" during the battle between Picasso and Bob Ross.\n"}
{"id": "12936761", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12936761", "title": "MACPF", "text": "MACPF\n\nThe Membrane Attack Complex/Perforin (MACPF) superfamily, sometimes referred to as the MACPF/CDC superfamily, is named after a domain that is common to the membrane attack complex (MAC) proteins of the complement system (C6, C7, C8α, C8β and C9) and perforin (PF). Members of this protein family are pore-forming toxins (PFTs). In eukaryotes, MACPF proteins play a role in immunity and development.\n\nArchetypal members of the family are complement C9 and perforin, both of which function in human immunity. C9 functions by punching holes in the membranes of Gram-negative bacteria. Perforin is released by cytotoxic T cells and lyses virally infected and transformed cells. In addition, perforin permits delivery of cytotoxic proteases called granzymes that cause cell death. Deficiency of either protein can result in human disease. Structural studies reveal that MACPF domains are related to cholesterol-dependent cytolysins (CDCs), a family of pore forming toxins previously thought to only exist in bacteria.\n\nAs of early 2016, there are three families belonging to the MACPF superfamily:\n\nProteins containing MACPF domains play key roles in vertebrate immunity, embryonic development, and neural-cell migration. The ninth component of complement and perforin form oligomeric pores that lyse bacteria and kill virus-infected cells, respectively. The crystal structure of a bacterial MACPF protein, Plu-MACPF from \"Photorhabdus luminescens\" was determined (). The MACPF domain is structurally similar to pore-forming cholesterol-dependent cytolysins from gram-positive bacteria, suggesting that MACPF proteins create pores and disrupt cell membranes similar to cytolysin. A representative list of proteins belonging to the MACPF family can be found in the Transporter Classification Database.\n\nMany proteins belonging to the MACPF superfamily play key roles in plant and animal immunity.\n\nComplement proteins C6-C9 all contain a MACPF domain and assemble into the membrane attack complex. C6, C7 and C8β appear to be non-lytic and function as scaffold proteins within the MAC. In contrast both C8α and C9 are capable of lysing cells. The final stage of MAC formation involves polymerisation of C9 into a large pore that punches a hole in the outer membrane of gram-negative bacteria.\n\nPerforin is stored in granules within cytotoxic T-cells and is responsible for killing virally infected and transformed cells. Perforin functions via two distinct mechanisms. Firstly, like C9, high concentrations of perforin can form pores that lyse cells. Secondly, perforin permits delivery of the cytotoxic granzymes A and B into target cells. Once delivered, granzymes are able to induce apoptosis and cause target cell death.\n\nThe plant protein CAD1 (TC# 1.C.39.11.3) functions in the plant immune response to bacterial infection.\n\nThe sea anemone \"Actineria villosa\" uses a MACPF (AvTX-60A; TC# 1.C.39.10.1)protein as a lethal toxin.\n\nMACPF proteins are also important for the invasion of the Malarial parasite into the mosquito host and the liver.\n\nNot all MACPF proteins function in defence or attack. For example, astrotactin-1 (TC# 9.B.87.3.1) is involved in neural cell migration in mammals and apextrin (TC# 1.C.39.7.4) is involved in sea urchin (\"Heliocidaris erythrogramma\") development. \"Drosophila\" Torso-like protein (TC# 1.C.39.15.1), which controls embryonic patterning, also contains a MACPF domain. Its function is implicated in a receptor tyrosine kinase signaling pathway that specifies differentiation and terminal cell fate.\n\nFunctionally uncharacterised MACPF proteins are sporadically distributed in bacteria. Several species of \"Chlamydia\" contain MACPF proteins. The insect pathogenic bacteria \"Photorhabdus luminescens\" also contains a MACPF protein, however, this molecule appears non-lytic.\n\nThe X-ray crystal structure of Plu-MACPF, a protein from the insect pathogenic enterobacteria \"Photorhabdus luminescens\" has been determined (figure 1). These data reveal that the MACPF domain is homologous to pore forming cholesterol dependent cytolysins (CDC's) from gram-positive pathogenic bacteria such as \"Clostridium perfringens\" (which causes gas gangrene). The amino acid sequence identity between the two families is extremely low, and the relationship is not detectable using conventional sequence based data mining techniques.\n\nIt is suggested that MACPF proteins and CDCs form pores in the same way (figure 1). Specifically it is hypothesised that MACPF proteins oligomerise to form a large circular pore (figure 2). A concerted conformational change within each monomer then results in two α-helical regions unwinding to form four amphipathic β-strands that span the membrane of the target cell. Like CDC's MACPF proteins are thus β-pore forming toxins that act like a molecular hole punch.\n\nOther crystal structures for members of the MACPF superfamily can be found in RCSB: i.e., , , , , \n\nComplement regulatory proteins such as CD59 function as MAC inhibitors and prevent inappropriate activity of complement against self cells (Figure 3). Biochemical studies have revealed the peptide sequences in C8α and C9 that bind to CD59. Analysis of the MACPF domain structures reveals that these sequences map to the second cluster of helices that unfurl to span the membrane. It is therefore suggested that CD59 directly inhibits the MAC by interfering with conformational change in one of the membrane spanning regions.\n\nOther proteins that bind to the MAC include C8γ. This protein belongs to the lipocalin family and interacts with C8α. The binding site on C8α is known, however, the precise role of C8γ in the MAC remains to be understood.\n\nDeficiency of C9, or other components of the MAC results in an increased susceptibility to diseases caused by gram-negative bacteria such as meningococcal meningitis. Overactivity of MACPF proteins can also cause disease. Most notably, deficiency of the MAC inhibitor CD59 results in an overactivity of complement and Paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria.\n\nPerforin deficiency results in the commonly fatal disorder familial hemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis (FHL or HLH). This disease is characterised by an overactivation of lymphocytes which results in cytokine mediated organ damage.\n\nThe MACPF protein DBCCR1 may function as a tumor suppressor in bladder cancer.\n\nC6; C7; C8A; C8B; C9; FAM5B; FAM5C; MPEG1;\nPRF1\n"}
{"id": "57407838", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57407838", "title": "Margaret Elizabeth Buchanan", "text": "Margaret Elizabeth Buchanan\n\nMargaret Elizabeth Buchanan (1864-1940) has been described as the most important pioneer of women in pharmacy.\n\nHer father was a doctor and she was educated at North London Collegiate School. She qualified as a pharmacist in 1887 and passed the Major examination in 1888, gaining a silver medal and taking second place in the Pereira competition. \n\nShe started as a hospital pharmacist at the Westminster General Infirmary and took over Henry Deane's pharmacy at 16 The Pavement, Clapham Common sometime between 1911 and 1914. Agnes Borrowman became a partner and the practice trained generations of woman pharmacists. By 1923 of the 15 young women from the business who studied at the Pharmaceutical Society School of Pharmacy 14 had taken prizes and scholarships.\n\nIn 1924 she transferred the business to Borrowman and founded the Margaret Buchanan School of Pharmacy for Women at Gordon Hall, Gordon Square. She offered a 10 month’s course for the examination of the Society of Apothecaries for £21.\n\nShe was one of the founders of the National Association of Women Pharmacists, becoming its President, and was, in 1918, the first woman to be elected to the Council of the Pharmaceutical Society, serving until 1926. \n"}
{"id": "1144525", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1144525", "title": "Nazeh Darwazi", "text": "Nazeh Darwazi\n\nNazeh Darwazi (also Romanized Darwazeh)(ca. 1958-1961 – 19 April 2003), was a Palestinian freelance cameraman for the US news agency Associated Press Television Network (APTN) and Palestinian state television when he was killed in Nablus in the West Bank while reporting, according to eyewitnesses, by a bullet in the head fired by an Israeli soldier from a distance of about 20 yards (18 m) after having pointed his weapon at the clearly marked journalist.\n\nDarwazi was one of five journalists to die while reporting on the Second Intifada between 2002 and 2003.\n\nNazeh Darwazi was born and raised in Nablus. Various accounts of his age were reported. He lived in Nablus with his wife Raeda and their five children. His funeral was reported to have attracted over a thousand people.\n\nNazeh Darwazi worked for The Associated Press for two years. He was also a journalist for Palestinian television.\n\nEighteen Palestinians were injured by rubber bullets and live fire, during clashes between Israeli troops and Palestinian's throwing stones. Nazeh Darwazi was filming these fights between Israeli troops and Palestinians in the central Casbah district (Old City), when he was shot above his right eye. He was wearing a yellow jacket marked \"press\" and was with a group of around six journalists covering fights between the group of Palestinians and Israeli soldiers. The journalists said their group shouted in English and Hebrew making clear that they were with the media. Three people filmed the event, including a Reuters cameraman. At first the army claimed they were under attack by armed Palestinians who had been throwing explosives, but witnesses claimed the soldier shot the journalist in cold blood without any exchange of fire.\n\nReporters Without Borders investigated the event and found that the army had not interviewed eyewitnesses. The soldiers had been questioned, but nobody was punished. Palestinian Authority stated that Israel had \"committed a war crime\" by \"opening fire on journalists and other civilians\".\n\nThe Associated Press reported two Palestinian cameramen: Hassan Titi from Reuters and Sami al-Assi from a Palestinian station. Both cameramen said the soldier aimed at the journalists. \nVideo footage taken by Reuters confirms a soldier kneeling by a tank pointing a rifle down the alley where the journalists were wearing the green bulletproof vests stating, \"Press.\" Nazeh Darwazeh fell to his death shortly after the soldier fired.\n\nThe Israeli investigation claimed that Israeli soldiers had been shot at before returning fire when Darwazi was killed.\n\nSome of the journalists who were killed during the Second Intifada include Raffaele Ciriello, Italian; and Imad Abu Zahra and Issam Tillawi, who were both Palestinian. Two weeks after the Darwazi killing, James Miller was also killed on 2 May 2003 by the Israel Defense Forces while making a film about the Second Intifada.\n\nNazeh Darwazi was covering the Passover clashes in Nablus when he was killed. Israeli troops arrested several Palestinians in Nablus on suspicion of a planning a potential suicide attack during Passover. Three of the four were arrested around Casbah; the fourth turned himself in at a military checkpoint. In Rafah, five Palestinians were killed by Israeli troops during a raid of a nearby refugee camp in the southern Gaza strip. Twenty-seven people total were wounded in the raid. At the time, Palestinian leader, Yasir Arafat was in a dispute with his handpicked prime minister, Mahmoud Abbas, over the formation of a new government.\n\nOn Monday April 23, 2003 in front of the international Red Cross headquarters in Al-Khalil district, a group of Palestinian journalists staged a sit-in to publicly declare their disgust with what happened. The Palestinian Authority accused the IDF of war crimes.\n\nReporters Without Borders, which is based in France, urged President Jacques Chirac to bring the issue of journalist security and safety up when he met with Israeli Moshe Katzav in 2004.\n\nThe Committee to Protect Journalists issued statement about Nazeh Darwazi's death. Joel Simon, CPJ, said, \"We demand an immediate and thorough inquiry into the shooting death of Nazih Darwazeh and call on you to ensure that those responsible are swiftly brought to justice.\"\n\nNazeh Darwazi’s body was wrapped in the Palestinian and carried from the Rafidyeh hospital by representatives of the Palestinian press. Those carrying Darwazi chanted against Israel. They carried his body to the funeral, which over one thousand people attended.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50568884", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50568884", "title": "Neural Turing machine", "text": "Neural Turing machine\n\nA Neural Turing machine (NTMs) is a recurrent neural network model published by Alex Graves et. al. in 2014. NTMs combine the fuzzy pattern matching capabilities of neural networks with the algorithmic power of programmable computers. An NTM has a neural network controller coupled to external memory resources, which it interacts with through attentional mechanisms. The memory interactions are differentiable end-to-end, making it possible to optimize them using gradient descent. An NTM with a long short-term memory (LSTM) network controller can infer simple algorithms such as copying, sorting, and associative recall from input and output examples. They can infer algorithms from input and output examples alone.\n\nThe authors of the original NTM paper did not publish the source code for their implementation. The first stable open-source implementation of a Neural Turing Machine was published in 2018 at the 27th International Conference on Artificial Neural Networks, receiving a best-paper award. Other open source implementations of NTMs exist but are not stable for production use. The developers either report that the gradients of their implementation sometimes become NaN during training for unknown reasons and causing training to fail; report slow convergence; or do not report the speed of learning of their implementation at all.\n\nDifferentiable neural computers are an outgrowth of neural Turing machines, with attention mechanisms that control where the memory is active, and improved performance.\n\n"}
{"id": "40651435", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40651435", "title": "Neuromodulation (medicine)", "text": "Neuromodulation (medicine)\n\nNeuromodulation is \"the alteration of nerve activity through targeted delivery of a stimulus, such as electrical stimulation or chemical agents, to specific neurological sites in the body\". It is carried out to normalize – or modulate – nervous tissue function. Neuromodulation is an evolving therapy that can involve a range of electromagnetic stimuli such as a magnetic field (rTMS), an electric current, or a drug instilled directly in the subdural space (intrathecal drug delivery). Emerging applications involve targeted introduction of genes or gene regulators and light (optogenetics), and by 2014, these had been at minimum demonstrated in mammalian models, or first-in-human data had been acquired. The most clinical experience has been with electrical stimulation.\n\nNeuromodulation, whether electrical or magnetic, employs the body's natural biological response by stimulating nerve cell activity that can influence populations of nerves by releasing transmitters, such as dopamine, or other chemical messengers such as the peptide Substance P, that can modulate the excitability and firing patterns of neural circuits. There may also be more direct electrophysiological effects on neural membranes as the mechanism of action of electrical interaction with neural elements. The end effect is a \"normalization\" of a neural network function from its perturbed state. Presumed mechanisms of action for neurostimulation include depolarizing blockade, stochastic normalization of neural firing, axonal blockade, reduction of neural firing keratosis, and suppression of neural network oscillations. Although the exact mechanisms of neurostimulation are not known, the empirical effectiveness has led to considerable application clinically.\n\nExisting and emerging neuromodulation treatments also include application in medication-resistant epilepsy, chronic head pain conditions, and functional therapy ranging from bladder and bowel or respiratory control to improvement of sensory deficits, such as hearing (cochlear implants and auditory brainstem implants) and vision (retinal implants). Technical improvements include a trend toward minimally invasive (or noninvasive) systems; as well as smaller, more sophisticated devices that may have automated feedback control, and conditional compatibility with magnetic resonance imaging.\n\nNeuromodulation therapy has been investigated for other chronic conditions, such as Alzheimer's disease, depression, chronic pain, and as an adjunctive treatment in recovery from stroke.\n\nElectrical stimulation using implantable devices came into modern usage in the 1980s and its techniques and applications have continued to develop and expand. \nThese are methods where an operation is required to position an electrode. The stimulator, with the battery, similar to a pacemaker, may also be implanted, or may remain outside the body.\n\nIn general, neuromodulation systems deliver electrical currents and typically consist of the following components: An epidural, subdural or parenchymal electrode placed via minimally invasive needle techniques (so-called percutaneous leads) or an open surgical exposure to the target (surgical \"paddle\" or \"grid\" electrodes), or stereotactic implants for the central nervous system, and an implanted pulse generator (IPG). Depending on the distance from the electrode access point an extension cable may also be added into the system. The IPG can have either a non-rechargeable battery needing replacement every 2–5 years (depending on stimulation parameters) or a rechargeable battery that is replenished via an external inductive charging system.\n\nAlthough most systems operate via delivery of a constant train of stimulation, there is now the advent of so-called \"feed-forward\" stimulation where the device's activation is contingent on a physiological event, such as an epileptic seizure. In this circumstance, the device is activated and delivers a desynchronizing pulse to the cortical area that is undergoing an epileptic seizure. This concept of feed-forward stimulation will likely become more prevalent as physiological markers of targeted diseases and neural disorders are discovered and verified. The on-demand stimulation may contribute to longer battery life, if sensing and signal-processing demands of the system are sufficiently power-efficient. New electrode designs could yield more efficient and precise stimulation, requiring less current and minimizing unwanted side-stimulation. In addition, to overcome the challenge of preventing lead migration in areas of the body that are subject to motion such as turning and bending, researchers are exploring developing small stimulation systems that are recharged wirelessly rather than through an electrical lead.\n\nSpinal cord stimulation is a form of invasive neuromodulation therapy in common use since the 1980s. Its principal use is as a reversible, non-pharmacological therapy for chronic pain management that delivers mild electrical pulses to the spinal cord. In patients who experience pain reduction of 50 percent or more during a temporary trial, a permanent implant may be offered in which, as with a cardiac pacemaker, an implantable pulse generator about the size of a stopwatch is placed under the skin on the trunk. It delivers mild impulses along slender electrical leads leading to small electrical contacts, about the size of a grain of rice, at the area of the spine to be stimulated.\n\nStimulation is typically in the 20–200 Hz range, though a novel class of stimulation parameters are now emerging that employ a 10 kHz stimulation train as well as 500 Hz \"burst stimulation\". Kilohertz stimulation trains have been applied to both the spinal cord proper as well as the dorsal root ganglion in humans. All forms of spinal cord stimulation have been shown to have varying degrees of efficacy to address a variety of pharmacoresistant neuropathic or mixed (neuropathic and noiciceptive) pain syndromes such as post-laminectomy syndrome, low back pain, complex regional pain syndrome, peripheral neuropathy, peripheral vascular disease and angina.\n\nThe general process for spinal cord stimulation involves a temporary trailing of appropriate patients with an external pulse generator attached to epidural electrodes located in the lower thoracic spinal cord. The electrodes are placed either via a minimally invasive needle technique (so-called percutaneous leads) or an open surgical exposure (surgical \"paddle\" electrodes).\n\nPatient selection is key, and candidates should pass rigorous psychological screening as well as a medical workup to assure that their pain syndrome is truly medication-resistant. After recuperating from the implant procedure, the patient will return to have the system turned on and programmed. Depending on the system, the program may elicit a tingling sensation that covers most of the painful area, replacing some of the painful sensations with more of a gentle massaging sensation, although other more recent systems do not create a tingling sensation. The patient is sent home with a handheld remote controller to turn the system off or on or switch between pre-set stimulation parameters, and can follow up to adjust the parameters.\n\nAnother invasive neuromodulation treatment developed in the 1980s is deep brain stimulation, which may be used to help limit symptoms of movement disorder in Parkinson's disease, dystonia, or essential tremor. Deep brain stimulation was approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration in 1997 for essential tremor, in 2002 for Parkinson's disease, and received a humanitarian device exemption from the FDA in 2003 for motor symptoms of dystonia. It was approved in 2010 in Europe for the treatment of certain types of severe epilepsy. DBS also has shown promise, although still in research, for medically intractable psychiatric syndromes of depression, obsessive compulsive disorders, intractable rage, dementia, and morbid obesity. It has also shown promise for Tourette syndrome, torticollis, and tardive dyskinesia. DBS therapy, unlike spinal cord stimulation, has a variety of central nervous system targets, depending on the target pathology. For Parkinson's disease central nervous system targets include the subthalamic nucleus, globus pallidus interna, and the ventral intermidus nucleus of the thalamus. Dystonias are often treated by implants targeting globus pallidus interna, or less often, parts of the ventral thalamic group. The anterior thalamus is the target for epilepsy.\n\nDBS research targets include, but are not limited to the following areas: Cg25 for depression, the anterior limb of the internal capsule for depression as well as obsessive compulsive disorder (OCD), centromedian/parafasicularis, centromedian thalamic nuclei and the subthalamic nucleus for OCD, anorexia and Tourette syndrome, the nucleus accumbens and ventral striatum have also been assayed for depression and pain.\n\n\nThese methods use external electrodes to apply a current to the body in order to change the functioning of the nervous system.\n\nMethods include:\n\nMagnetic methods of neuromodulation are normally non-invasive: no surgery is required to allow a magnetic field to enter the body because the magnetic permeability of tissue is similar to that of air. In other words: magnetic field penetrate the body very easily.\n\nThe two main techniques are highly related in that both use changes in magnetic field strength to induce electric fields and ionic currents in the body. There are however differences in approach and hardware. In rTMS the stimulation has a high amplitude (0.5–3 tesla), a low complexity and anatomical specificity is reached through a highly focal magnetic field. In tPEMF the stimulation has a low amplitude (0.01–500 millitesla), a high complexity and anatomical specificity is reached through the specific frequency content of the signal.\n\n\nChemical neuromodulation is always invasive, because a drug is delivered in a highly specific location of the body. The non-invasive variant is traditional pharmacotherapy, e.g. swallowing a tablet.\n\n\nElectrical stimulation of the nervous system has a long and complex history. Earlier practitioners of deep brain stimulation in the latter half of the 20th century (Delgado, Heath, Hosbuchi. See Hariz \"et al.\" for historical review) were limited by the technology available. Heath, in the 1950s, stimulated subcortical areas and made detailed observations of behavioral changes. A new understanding of pain perception was ushered in in 1965, with the Gate Theory of Wall and Melzack. Although now considered oversimplified, the theory held that pain transmissions from small nerve fibers can be overridden, or the gate \"closed\", by competing transmissions along the wider touch nerve fibers. Building on that concept, in 1967, the first dorsal column stimulator for pain control was demonstrated by Dr. Norm Shealy at Western Reserve Medical School, using a design adapted by Tom Mortimer, a graduate student at Case Institute of Technology, from cardiac nerve stimulators by Medtronic, Inc., where he had a professional acquaintance who shared the circuit diagram. In 1973, Hosbuchi reported alleviating the denervation facial pain of anesthesia dolorosa through ongoing electrical stimulation of the somatosensory thalamus, marking the start of the age of deep brain stimulation.\n\nDespite the limited clinical experience in these decades, that era is remarkable for the demonstration of the role technology has in neuromodulation, and there are some case reports of deep brain stimulation for a variety of problems; real or perceived. Delgado hinted at the power of neuromodulation with his implants in the bovine septal region and the ability of electrical stimulation to blunt or alter behavior. Further attempts at this \"behavioral modification\" in humans were difficult and seldom reliable, and contributed to the overall lack progress in central nervous system neuromodulation from that era. Attempts at intractable pain syndromes were met with more success, but again hampered by the quality of technology. In particular, the so-called DBS \"zero\" electrode, (consisting of a contact loop on its end) had an unacceptable failure rate and revisions were fraught with more risk than benefit. Overall, attempts at using electrical stimulation for \"behavioral modification\" were difficult and seldom reliable, slowing development of DBS. Attempts at addressing intractable pain syndromes with DBS were met with more success, but again hampered by the quality of technology. A number of physicians who hoped to address hitherto intractable problems sought development of more specialized equipment; for instance, in the 1960s, Wall's colleague Bill Sweet recruited engineer Roger Avery to make an implantable peripheral nerve stimulator. Avery started the Avery Company, which made a number of implantable stimulators. Shortly before his retirement in 1983, he submitted data requested by the FDA, which had begun to regulate medical devices following a 1977 meeting on the topic, regarding DBS for chronic pain. Medtronic and Neuromed also made deep brain stimulators at the time, but reportedly felt a complex safety and efficacy clinical trial in patients who were difficult to evaluate would be too costly for the size of the potential patient base, so did not submit clinical data on DBS for chronic pain to the FDA, and that indication was de-approved.\n\nHowever, near this time in France and elsewhere, DBS was investigated as a substitute for lesioning of brain nuclei to control motor symptoms of movement disorders such as Parkinson's disease, and by the mid-1990s, this reversible, non-destructive stimulation therapy had become the primary application of DBS in appropriate patients, to slow progression of movement impairment from the disease and reduce side effects from long-term, escalating medication use.\n\nIn parallel to the development of neuromodulation systems to address motor impairment, cochlear implants were the first neuromodulation system to reach a broad commercial stage to address a functional deficit; they provide sound perception in users who are hearing-impaired due to missing or damaged sensory cells (cilia) in the inner ear. The approach to electrical stimulation used in cochlear implants was soon modified by one manufacturer, Boston Scientific Corporation, for design of electrical leads to be used in spinal cord stimulation treatment of chronic pain conditions.\n\nIn 2012, the global pharmaceutical company GlaxoSmithKline announced an initiative in bioelectric medicine in which the autonomic nervous system's impact on the immune system and inflammatory disease might be treated through electrical stimulation rather than pharmaceutical agents. The company's first investment in 2013 involved a small startup company, SetPoint Medical, which was developing neurostimulators to address inflammatory autoimmune disorders such as rheumatoid arthritis.\n\nUltimately, the electroceuticals quest aims to find the electro-neural signature of disease and at a cellular level, in real time, play back the more normal electro-signature to help maintain the neural signature in the normal state. Unlike preceding neuromodulation therapy methods, the approach would not involve electrical leads stimulating large nerves or spinal cords or brain centers. It might involve methods that are emerging within the neuromodulation family of therapies, such as optogenetics or some new nanotechnology. Disease states and conditions that have been discussed as targets for future electroceutical therapy include diabetes, infertility, obesity, rheumatoid arthritis, and autoimmune disorders.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28859064", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28859064", "title": "Ontetic reduction", "text": "Ontetic reduction\n\nOntetic Reduction is the name of final stage of reduction in the Transcendent Method as presented by Persian Philosopher, Mahmoud Khatami.\n\nTranscendent Method was already employed in Persian Illuminative philosophy as suggested by Suhravardi, and developed by Mulla Sadra. However, as reconstructed and presented by Khatami, this method is based on the notion of \"Tashkik\" (the hierarchic degreement structure) of light as Being/Consciousness/ life. The core of this method is a Tashkiki reduction which is ended and rooted in \"Ontetic Reduction.\" Ontetic reduction is the highest and purest stage within which the tashkiki structure of light, in its three indication, appears. Khatami has reconstructed the “transcendent method” and developed an “ontetic logic”.[1] To set up the transcendent method, first, Khatami starts from every day experience and reconstructs a method to transcend from this experience by reducing it to its original source step- by- step. This method leads to three continuous levels of human consciousness each of which follow its relevant level of logic. Let us describe the pillars of this method and its logic very shortly.\n\n“The transcendent method starts with an ideal for a beginningless commence.”[2] This phrase sounds a Husserlian phenomenological epoche. No doubt, Khatami has considered Husserlian phenomenological method in elaborating his transcendent method; but he has intensively inserted Persian illuminative elements here. First of all, he pursues this beginningless commence in the stage of Tubah (meaning: return) in the illuminative practical doctrine of Sayr va Soluk (literal meaning: journey and conduct) and builds up his integral logic. Khatami’s method and logic is constituted from vertical as well as horizontal aspects of consciousness and being in a hierarchic but continuous structure. According to Khatami, “There are two interrelated kinds of sayr va soluk in general: Afaqi which belongs to the horizon of Being, and Anfusi which is vertically directed toward the purest point (or the source) of Being. These two kinds of sayr va soluk are realised for a Truth-seeker (talib al haqq) in four stages of an existential experience which indicates four ek-stasis of the self to achieve the presential cognition.”\n\nKhatami summaries these stages by using Husserlian term of Reduction again; However, he still employs this word in his specific indication: “Each stage [of four stages] implies a reduction: (a) Reduction from appearances (dawaher) to their essences (mahyyat); (b) Reduction from essences to the knowing self (nafs al 'aref); (c) Reduction from the knowing self to the self as presential cognition (al nafs ‘ayn o ma'refateh); (d) Reduction of the\npresential cognition to Being which implies a new return to the things (the phenomenal world) through Being itself, with a different outlook; considering neither their appearance (as phenomenalism says) nor their essence (as phenomenology says); rather, their reality as the\nemanative entities.”\nKhatami tells us that the reductions (a) and (b) belong to the horizontal lines in the structure of Being, and “we can classify them as the eidtic reduction (in Husserlian sense) because they belong to essences and the eidetic field.” While “the reductions (c) and (d)”, Khatami writes, “belong to the vertical line in the structure of Being and we can classify them as the ontetic reduction.”[3]\nAccording to the above levels and reduction we see three level of logic which are only levels of a continuously vertical-horizontal, hierarchic and integrated logic. The general name he uses for this logic is “ontetic logic” which accords the transcendental method. First level of this logic which happens with application of the beginningless commence, is called empirical logic. Empirical logic is the logic of induction and experiential conclusions. The second level happens with the eidetic reduction, in which we are reflectively seeking the essences and their interrelations as they appear in our reflective constituting consciousness. Eidetic logic covers formal logic in its all presentation, being classic or modern, being deductive or abductive. The third level which is disclosed by the ontetic reduction, in which there is no reflection but a pure presence; it is logic of presence which not formal in its nature. According to Khatami, the empirical logic as well as the formal logic are limited to lower regions of human consciousness and being, and have their special field of application. They are parts of the transcendent method and two primary constituents of the ontetic logic. However, the ontetic logic is Logic of Tashkik, that is, a continuous, qualitative, and hierarchic logic with the ability of descending and ascending in vertical, as well as running and returning in horizontal structure, whether in a linear way or circular etc.[4]\nThis logic and its transcendent method enables Khatami to start by description of the plain common sense experience which everybody has from him and his environment; then goes further and reduces it to the eidetic entities which constitute various subjects of sciences; then he reduces consciousness to its original source which is presential cognition (and not a transcendental ego as we see in Kantian-Husserlian heritage). It is from this point that Khatami extends his philosophy of subjectivity and other issues concerning human subjectivity.\nMeanwhile, by the ontetic reduction he recovered the ancient Persian philosophical triadic idea of “Consciousness-Action-Being” and tried to conclude the ontetic logic hidden in this idea. This idea, though constituted the whole structure of reality, shapes the world of human subjectivity which is a qualitative world (macrocosm) in itself.[5] This means for Khatami that human subjectivity accords the world; the ontetic realm would be a human extroversion, that is, the human triad of presence: “Consciousness-Action-Being”. This approach brings Khatami to centralize “human subjectivity” as the main thematic subject of philosophy: “Philosophy is the only science that purely devoted to human subjectivity and its relationships (which build up his world).”[6] According to this thesis, everything we consider as “a being” means for us as appeared in human world and its network of ontetic relations.\n\n[1], [2] See: Mahmoud Khatami, \"The Transcendent method: A Reconstruction\", in \"Comparative Studies on Mulla Sadra\", V.4, ed. Sipin, Mulla Sadra Foundation, Tehran, 2002.\n\n[3], [4] Ibid. This eidetic-ontetic distinction is also based on katami’s special understanding of Mulla Sadra’s essence-existence distinction.\n\n[5] See: Mahmoud Khatami, \"A Phenomenological Approach to the Illuminative Notion of Man,\" in \"Microcosm and Macrocosm\", ed.\nBy A. M. Tymanicca, Springer, 2006.\n\n[6] See: Mahmoud Khatami, \"Lectures on Contemporary Western Philosophy\", Tehran: Elm Publisher, 2008, Introduction.\n\nSophia Taylor, \"Mahmoud Khatami: A Primer of His Ontetic Philosophy of Human Subjectivity\", Müller, 2009.\n\nMahmoud Khatami\n\nOntetic Philosophy\n"}
{"id": "56987", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56987", "title": "Paul Lynde", "text": "Paul Lynde\n\nPaul Edward Lynde (; June 13, 1926January 11, 1982) was an American comedian, voice artist, game show panelist and actor. A character actor with a distinctively campy and snarky persona that often poked fun at his barely in-the-closet homosexuality, Lynde was well known for his roles as Uncle Arthur on \"Bewitched\" and the befuddled father Harry MacAfee in \"Bye Bye Birdie\". He was also the regular \"center square\" panelist on the game show \"Hollywood Squares\" from 1968 to 1981, and he voiced four Hanna-Barbera productions: he was Templeton the gluttonous rat in \"Charlotte's Web\", Mildew Wolf from \"It's the Wolf\" (a segment of \"Cattanooga Cats\"), neighbor Claude Pertwee on \"Where's Huddles?\" and The Hooded Claw in \"The Perils of Penelope Pitstop\".\n\nPaul Lynde was born in Mount Vernon, Ohio, the son of Hoy Coradon and Sylvia Bell (Doup) Lynde. He graduated from Mount Vernon High School in 1944, and then studied drama at Northwestern University in Evanston, Illinois, where his fellow students included Cloris Leachman, Charlotte Rae, Patricia Neal, Jeffrey Hunter and Claude Akins. At Northwestern, he joined the Upsilon chapter of Phi Kappa Sigma and is listed among the more famous members of the fraternity. He graduated in 1948 and moved to New York City, where he initially worked as a stand-up comic.\n\nLynde made his Broadway debut in the hit revue \"New Faces of 1952\" in which he co-starred with fellow newcomers Eartha Kitt, Robert Clary, Alice Ghostley, and Carol Lawrence. In his monologue from that revue, the \"Trip of the Month Club,\" Lynde portrayed a man on crutches recounting his misadventures on the African safari he took with his late wife. The show was filmed and released as \"New Faces\" in 1954.\nAfter the revue's run, Lynde co-starred in the short-lived 1956 sitcom \"Stanley\" opposite Buddy Hackett and Carol Burnett, both of whom were also starting their careers in show business. That year, he guest starred on NBC's \"The Martha Raye Show\".\n\nLynde returned to Broadway in 1960 when he was cast as Harry MacAfee, the father in \"Bye Bye Birdie\". He also played the role in the 1963 film adaptation. That year, he recorded a live album, \"Recently Released\", issued as an LP record. All six tracks were written by him. Once he could afford writers, he rarely used his own material until his tenure on \"Hollywood Squares\" years later.\n\nLynde was in great demand in the 1960s. During the 1961-62 television season he was a regular on NBC's \"The Perry Como Show\" as part of the Kraft Music Hall players with Don Adams, Kaye Ballard and Sandy Stewart. He was a familiar face on many sitcoms, including \"The Phil Silvers Show\", \"The Patty Duke Show\", \"The Munsters\", \"The Flying Nun\", \"Gidget\", \"I Dream of Jeannie\", \"F Troop\", and variety shows such as \"The Ed Sullivan Show\" and \"The Dean Martin Show\". He also was featured in a number of 1960s films, including \"Send Me No Flowers\" and \"The Glass Bottom Boat\", both starring Doris Day.\n\nLynde's best known sitcom role was on \"Bewitched\", where he made his debut appearance in the first-season episode \"Driving Is the Only Way to Fly.\" His role as Samantha Stephens' nervous driving instructor Harold Harold was well received by viewers, as well as series star Elizabeth Montgomery and her husband, director/producer William Asher, with whom Lynde became good friends. Asher then created the recurring role of Endora's practical-joking brother Uncle Arthur. Lynde made 10 appearances on \"Bewitched\" as the beloved character, and was regularly seen with Montgomery and Asher off the set as well.\n\nLynde also did extensive voice work on animated cartoons, particularly those of Hanna-Barbera Productions. His most notable roles included The Hooded Claw in \"The Perils of Penelope Pitstop\", Mildew Wolf from \"It's the Wolf\" (a segment of \"Cattanooga Cats\"), and Pertwee from \"Where's Huddles?\". He also voiced gluttonous rat Templeton in the animated feature \"Charlotte's Web\". Lynde's sardonic inflections added a dimension to such lines as the sly, drawn-out whine, \"What's in it for \"meeee?\"\" His distinctive voice remains popular among impressionists. Although it is sometimes assumed that actress Alice Ghostley based her speech patterns and mannerisms on Lynde's, according to actress Kaye Ballard \"it was Paul who was influenced by Alice\".\n\nIn 1966, Lynde debuted on the fledgling game show \"Hollywood Squares\" and quickly became its iconic guest star. Eventually he assumed a permanent spot as the \"center square,\" a move which ensured that he would be called upon by contestants at least once in almost every round. Despite an urban legend to the contrary, Lynde remained in the center at the producers' discretion.\n\nOn \"Hollywood Squares\" Lynde was best able to showcase his comedic talents with short, salty one-liners, spoken in his signature sniggering delivery. Many gags were thinly veiled allusions to his homosexuality. Asked, \"You're the world's most popular fruit. What are you?\" Lynde replied, \"Humble.\" Asked how many men on a hockey team, Lynde said, \"Oh, about half.\" Asked, \"Who's generally better looking, a fairy or a pixie?,\" he objected, \"Looks aren't everything!\" and then, after a pause, quipped, \"I think I'll take the fairy.\" Asked whether it was against the law in Texas to call a marine a \"sissy,\" Lynde quipped, \"I guess I'll have to take the law into my own hands.\"\n\nOther jokes relied on double entendre, an alleged fondness for deviant behaviors, his misogyny, or dealt with touchy subject matter for 1970s television. Examples include:\n\nLynde garnered considerable fame and wealth from the series, appearing a total of 707 times. He bought Errol Flynn's old Hollywood mansion and spent an enormous amount of money on renovations and decorations.\n\nIn 1972, Lynde starred in a short-lived ABC sitcom, \"The Paul Lynde Show\", playing an uptight attorney and father at odds with his liberal-minded son-in-law. The series was a contractual fulfillment to ABC in place of an aborted ninth season of \"Bewitched\".\n\nLynde starred as Paul Simms, the father of a family that consisted of wife Martha (Elizabeth Allen) and daughters Barbara (Jane Actman) and Sally (Pamelyn Ferdin). It also starred John Calvin as Barbara's husband, Howie, and Jerry Stiller and Anne Meara as Howie's parents. Critics perceived the show as a derivative of \"All in the Family,\" then television's most-popular primetime program, although many admitted the writing was top notch and the sexual connotations gave it an extra bit of spice. Lynde was nominated for a Best Actor Golden Globe for the show. Scheduled opposite the first half of the Top 30 hit \"The Carol Burnett Show\" on CBS and the Top 20 hit \"Adam-12\" on NBC, the series garnered low ratings and was canceled after a single season.\n\nMedia reports at the time about ABC programs indicated that research showed viewers liked another ABC show, \"Temperatures Rising\", but disliked co-star James Whitmore, whereas viewers liked Lynde but not \"The Paul Lynde Show\". Whitmore, unhappy with the show himself, left, and ABC moved Lynde to \"Temperatures Rising\" for the 1973–74 season over the objections of William Asher, producer of both shows, who also quit in protest of ABC's meddling. \"The New Temperatures Rising\", in part because Asher's replacements shifted the show's tone to a much darker one than the previous season, were even lower than the previous season. ABC cancelled the show and its time slot was taken by mid-season replacement \"Happy Days\". ABC decided to resuscitate the program, with additional cast changes (most notably, Alice Ghostley replaced Sudie Bond in the role of Lynde's sister, Edwina), and convinced Asher, who admitted Lynde's presence likely saved the series, to come back. Seven further episodes were produced for summer 1974 airings, after which the series was permanently canceled.\n\nIn addition to the unsuccessful \"The Paul Lynde Show\" and \"Temperatures Rising\", Lynde starred in four failed television pilots in the 1960s:\n\n\nOf the four shows, only the Victorian detective spoof \"Sedgewick Hawk-Styles: Prince of Danger\" was initially picked up by ABC, only to be cancelled at the last minute. William Asher commented in the A&E \"Biography\" entry on Lynde that ABC had reservations about Lynde, most notably his increasingly erratic offscreen behavior and the persistent rumors of his homosexuality.\n\nLynde was regularly admired by his peers during his lifetime. Mel Brooks once described Lynde as being capable of getting laughs by reading \"a phone book, tornado alert, or seed catalogue.\" In 1976, Lynde received an Entertainer of the Year Emmy award for being voted the funniest man of the year, which he immediately turned over to host Jackie Gleason (who never won an Emmy award during his lifetime), citing him as \"the funniest man ever.\" The unexpected gesture shocked Gleason.\n\nLynde was a fixture on the Kenley Players summer stock theatre circuit, appearing in \"Don't Drink the Water\" (1970, 1979), \"The Impossible Years\" (1969, 1978), \"Mother is Engaged\" (1974), \"My Daughter is Rated X\" (1973), \"Plaza Suite\" (1971), and \"Stop, Thief, Stop!\" (1975). In all he appeared in nine Kenley Players productions, more than any other headliner.\n\nLynde's continuing popularity led to his being signed by ABC to host a series of specials from 1975 to 1979, including:\n\nLynde was a regular guest on the 1976–79 variety show \"Donny & Marie\" until 1978. He lost his guest-starring role following an alcohol-related arrest. \n\nAs demand for his services declined, he accepted a wider variety of job offers. He appeared as a guest weatherman for WSPD-TV in Toledo, Ohio, in 1978, to publicize both Hollywood Squares and a summer stock performance. He appeared as Indian chief Nervous Elk alongside former \"Bye Bye Birdie\" co-star Ann-Margret in the 1979 comedy \"The Villain\" (released as \"Cactus Jack\" in the UK), which was to be his final film role. Lynde had become disenchanted with being what he called \"boxed into\" \"Hollywood Squares\" and departed the series that same year. Acting jobs continued to be scarce, although it is unclear if this was due to Lynde's known substance abuse and alcohol problems, which made him difficult to work with.\n\nIn 1980, \"Hollywood Squares\" was experiencing a downward trend in Nielsen ratings. Lynde was approached about returning to the program and initially declined, but changed his mind when told he would receive co-star billing with host Peter Marshall. He returned to the series in the spring of 1980 and remained with the show until its cancellation in February 1981.\n\nIn November 1980, the Beaux Arts Society, Inc. (founded in 1857) designated Paul Lynde \"King\" of the Beaux Arts Ball. Kitty Carlisle was designated \"Queen\" that year. Paul Lynde remained a Life Member of the Beaux Arts Society from 1980 until his untimely death.\n\nOn January 11, 1982, after Lynde had failed to attend a birthday celebration, his friend actor Paul Barresi became concerned. When he and another friend, actor Dean Ditman, could not get an answer on the phone or from knocking on his door, Barresi broke into the side entrance to Lynde's home in Beverly Hills, California, and found him dead in his bed. He was 55 years old. Stories suggesting Lynde had a visitor at the time of his death who fled the scene circulated but could not be proven, as the comedian regularly activated his house alarm before retiring for the evening. When Barresi broke in, the alarm blared, implying Lynde was alone at the time of his death and that he had died in his sleep. The coroner ruled the death a heart attack. Lynde's cremated remains are interred at Amity Cemetery, in Amity, Knox County, Ohio, next to those of his brother Johnny and sister Helen. His father and mother are buried at the same cemetery.\n\nLynde's popularity and high regard from the public have been maintained since his death. A biography was published in 2005, titled \"Center Square: The Paul Lynde Story\". Authors Steve Wilson and Joe Florenski described Lynde as \"Liberace without a piano\" and that to most 1970s-era viewers, he was \"a frustrated bit player and character actor on a daytime game show\". To the homosexual community, his reputation was less than stellar: \"In some ways, he came to symbolize what's perceived to be a self-loathing era for gay culture.\"\n\nLynde's distinctive vocal delivery has also been widely imitated:\n\nDespite his campy and flamboyant television persona, Lynde's private life and sexual orientation were not directly acknowledged or discussed on television or in other media during his lifetime. According to an essay on the web site for The Biography Channel, in the 1970s, entertainment journalists did not investigate the private lives of performers who were best known as game show regulars. In 1976, a \"People\" magazine article on Lynde included text about Stan Finesmith; the latter was described as Lynde's \"suite mate\" and \"chauffeur-bodyguard.\" The magazine did not include a photograph of Finesmith. During Lynde's lifetime, this was as close as the media came to hinting at his homosexuality. Cathy Rudolph, a friend of Lynde's who published a 2013 book entitled \"Paul Lynde: A Biography – His Life, His Love(s) and His Laughter\", stated in a 2018 interview that \"being gay and having to hide it frustrated him.\"\n\nIn 1965, Lynde was involved in an accident in which a young actor fell to his death from the window of their hotel room in San Francisco's Sir Francis Drake Hotel. The two had been drinking for hours before 24-year-old James \"Bing\" Davidson slipped and fell eight stories.\n\nLynde struggled with alcoholism and had numerous run-ins with the law and frequent arrests for public intoxication. Marshall and Kaye Ballard confirmed that Lynde, when inebriated, would sometimes ridicule his friends.\nLynde was involved in an incident at his alma mater, Northwestern University, in October 1977. He was the Grand Marshal for homecoming. At a fast food restaurant after the homecoming parade, he made racist remarks and gestures to African American NU professor James Pitts. Lynde later blamed his behavior on fatigue and inebriation.\n\nLynde suffered from weight-control problems and was honored in 1977 by Weight Watchers. That year, Lynde's beloved dog, Harry MacAfee, died. Lynde could not stay in the house without him and later bought a new home. He spent heavily to redecorate and renovate the house.\n\nOn January 4, 1978, Lynde was arrested outside of a tavern in Salt Lake City at approximately 1:30 a.m. for interfering with a police officer. The officer, who was investigating a car burglary, claimed Lynde kept insisting that the officer \"attend to Lynde's complaint that his briefcase with $1,000 in cash and valuables inside had been stolen.\" The complaint was later dropped.\n\nLynde became sober and drug-free in early 1980.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1633548", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1633548", "title": "Project ARMS", "text": "Project ARMS\n\nProject ARMS, known in Japan as is a Japanese manga series written and illustrated by Ryoji Minagawa, with assistance from Kyoichi Nanatsuki. The story follows a young man named Ryo Takatsuki, who at the beginning of the series believes that he was in an accident causing his right arm to be severed from his body. However, as the story progresses, it is revealed that he was actually a test subject for experiments involving genetics and an \"ARMS\" nanomachine implant, along with three other youths: Kei Karuma, Takeshi Tomoe, and Hayato Shingu. They all meet under strange circumstances and after many battles they set off on a journey to rescue Ryo's girlfriend Katsumi Akagi, who is kidnapped by the Egrigori. The Egrigori are the creators of the ARMS technology. In 1999, the series received the 44th Shogakukan Manga Award for \"shōnen\" category. It was adapted into a 2001 anime television series by TMS Entertainment.\n\nRyo Takatsuki\n\nIn the anime adaptation, he is voiced by Nobutoshi Kanna. In the English dub, he is voiced by Kirby Morrow.\n\nIn the anime adaptation, he is voiced by Shūichi Ikeda. In the English dub, he is voiced by Paul Dobson.\n\nHayato Shingu\n\nIn the anime adaptation, he is voiced by Shin-ichiro Miki. In the English dub, he is voiced by Brian Drummond.\n\nIn the anime adaptation, the White Knight is voiced by Jūrōta Kosugi. In the English dub, he is voiced by Michael Dobson.\n\nTakeshi Tomoe\n\nIn the anime adaptation, he is voiced by Yūji Ueda. In the English dub, he is voiced by Brad Swaile.\n\nIn the anime adaptation, the White Rabbit is voiced by Kōji Nakata. In the English dub, he is voiced by Brian Dobson.\n\nKuruma Kei\n\nIn the anime adaptation, she is voiced by Minami Takayama. In the English dub, she is voiced by Nicole Oliver.\n\nIn the anime adaptation, the Queen of Hearts is voiced by Nana Yamaguchi.\n\nKatsumi Akagi\n\nIn the anime adaptation, she is voiced by Tomoko Miura. In the English dub, she is voiced by Venus Terzo.\n\nAs Black Alice dies, Katsumi reaches out to her and for a moment, comes into contact. This brief contact leads to the implant of an ARMS core inside Katsumi's body: signs of its growing power are shown on many occasions, in the form of grisly nightmares and increasingly unstable behaviour, culminating in the massacre of a group of thugs, and is subsequently possessed by a resurrected Black Alice. The Bandersnatch's ultimate form is a white version of the Jabberwock: its power is exceptional, as opposed to the Jabberwock's ultimate ability of anti-matter production and flame manipulation, the Bandersnatch's ultimate power is Nitrogen Manipulation; able to freeze a town-sized area to absolute zero and create whiteouts with a mere thought. A more proactive usage of her phenomenal power would be the ability to control and guide the absolute cold, emitting and taking it with her wherever she goes as though the ice and freeze were somehow alive and connected to her. Wherever she goes the icing effect will follow, being at its strongest with her at its epicenter.\n\nThe Keiths are a series of clones created from the base genetic material of Keith White. The Keith series of clones was endlessly experimented on to create a human being that could survive an ARMS implantation. The first to survive the implantation process was Keith Blue; however the first successful implantation was Keith Black. Following Keith Black's takeover of Egrigori, nearly all of the Keith clones were destroyed. None of the Keith series' ARMS have an AI.\n\nKeith White - Humpty Dumpty\n\nIn the anime adaptation, Keith White was voiced by Kazuhiko Inoue.\n\nKeith Red - Gryphon\n\nIn the anime adaptation, he is voiced by Shō Hayami. In the English dub, he is voiced by Ward Perry.\n\nKeith Blue - Dormouse\n\nIn the anime adaptation, he is voiced by Hiroya Ishimaru. In the English dub, he is voiced by Ross Douglas.\n\nKeith Violet - March Hare\n\nIn the anime adaptation, she is voiced by Hōko Kuwashima. In the English dub, she is voiced by Janyse Jaud.\n\nKeith Silver - Mad Hatter\n\nIn the anime adaptation, he is voiced by Yasuhiko Kawazu. In the English dub, he is voiced by Lee Tockar.\n\nKeith Green - Cheshire Cat\n\nIn the anime adaptation, he is voiced by Atsushi Kisaichi. In the English adaptation, he is voiced by Andrew Francis.\n\nKeith Black - Humpty Dumpty\n\nIn the anime adaptation, he is voiced by Ryōtarō Okiayu. In the English dub he is voiced by Samuel Vincent.\n\nAlice\n\nIn the anime adaptation, Alice is voiced by Aya Hisakawa. In the English dub, she is voiced by Tabitha St. Germain.\n\nMisa Takatsuki\n\nIn the anime adaptation, she is voiced by Miyuki Ishijō. In the English dub, she is voiced by Cathy Weseluck.\n\nIwao Takatsuki\n\nIn the anime adaptation, he is voiced by Kinryū Arimoto.\n\nJuzo Shingu\n\nIn the anime adaptation, he is voiced by Masaaki Okabe.\n\nKoichi Kabuto\n\nIn the anime adaptation, he is voiced by Daiki Nakamura. In the English dub, he is voiced by Michael Kopsa.\n\nAl Bowen\n\nIn the anime adaptation, he is voiced by Megumi Ogata. In the English adaptation, he is voiced by Jillian Michaels.\n\nChun-Yan Lee\n\nIn the anime adaptation, she is voiced by Yumi Takatani.\n\nEgrigori is an immense organization that operates in the shadows and has bases, research facilities, and agents all over the world. Due to its goal of artificially guiding and accelerating human evolution there are countless projects being worked on by Egrigori scientists at any one time. As such it has sent many of its most promising agents and experiments to try and capture or destroy the ARMS teens and their associates. The ones listed below are most likely only a very small portion of Egrigori's arsenal.\n\nThe Crimson triad is an elite three person special ops team composed of three experimental cyborg siblings. They earned the nickname \"Crimson\" from the vast quantities of blood they have spilled.\n\nGashure\n\nWasp\n\nFace\n\nThe X-Army are a rogue splinter group of Egrigori soldiers genetically modified or hosting unique biophysical abnormalities within their DNA. Many of their forces were either volunteers or raised from birth for the express purpose of eugenic experimentation through any number pertaining to therapeutic sessions and bodily tampering; such as the replicative pathogen sequencing, augmentative pharmaceutical ingestion or psychoanalytic and mentalist evaluation testing. With the right kind of neural or physiological stimulus, The Egrigori would provoke unparalleled spontaneous changes and alterations in the anatomic structure within the groups personnel. In others they simply awakened long dormant potential for paraspycholgical power within their subjects. The X-Army took great pride in their unique gifts, but were labeled failures by the same organization directors that created them; driving them to assault the ARMS Team in order to prove their worth as assets by defeating the Jabberwock. In truth, Project X-Army was but a testing bed for the development and progression of other Egrigori Projects, partaking of numerous genetic samples from it's operatives and implementing them in further genetic experiments and research.\nYugo Gilbert\n\nCliff Gilbert\n\nCarol\n\nVolf\n\nKyklops\n\nThe Red Caps are a small army of supersoldiers created from data obtained from the creation of the X-Army and is under the direct command of General Gauss Gall, an incredibly intelligent and merciless military strategist. Each soldier in the Red Caps is a veteran soldier whose mind has been transplanted into a younger cloned body that has had extensive genetic changes done to it. All of the Red caps have the accelerated healing abilities of Volf, the super-enhanced eyesight of Kyklops, and the telepathic abilities of Yugo Gilbert. While their telepathy is nowhere near as powerful as Yugo's, it allows them to communicate with one another and predict the moves of their opponents. The telepathy has the same weaknesses however, they are unable to read the minds of people acting on instinct, other telepaths, or people who have undergone training to resist telepathy. Also, despite their ability to predict movements and their enhanced eyesight, they were unable to stop Takeshi simply because he can move far too fast for them to keep up. The Red Caps then began sieging Aisora City under the command of Keith Red in order to eliminate both the X-Army and the ARMS teens. Colonel Gauss Gall almost defeated the Jabberwock by shooting Ryo with an experimental ARMS killing nano-virus named \"Venom\". He then proceeded to use four failed Red Cap soldiers to attack Yugo and Kei. Yugo, however, was able to gain control of them and hold off the other Red caps until the Bluemen arrived and Ryo could reassert control of the Jabberwock and neutralize the virus. All of the Red Caps died at the same time when their artificially engineered bodies began to degrade and age at an exponential rate.\n\nIn the manga, the Red Caps appear to be children, in the anime, this is changed to appear as young adults.\n\nThe Hounds are a specialized unit of non-cyborg combat soldiers. They have undergone extensive gene modifications known as the \"boosting\" process. The result of this process is that it gives them the physical (and some mental) attributes of the subjects to being similar to primitive man. This gives the hounds extremely acute senses, almost superhuman strength, speed, and stamina, and a strong pack-like mentality which makes it very easy for the leader of the \"pack\" to coordinate their movements and attacks to catch their opponents off guard. This also gives them a strong sense of loyalty towards their leader and each other. An additional ability that all hound possess is that the longer and harder they fight, the more adrenaline their body produces. This exponentially increases their strength and speed and makes them especially dangerous in prolonged fights. However, this has a side effect of putting severe stress on their bodies and prolonged combat in this state will cause their bodies to overheat and eventually cause the catastrophic failure of all of their bodily functions. Most of the Hounds were stationed at the Gallows Bell facility as the personal bodyguards and enforcement squad of the Chapel children. Their superior tactic and abilities allowed them to catch the ARMS team off guard at first and they managed to capture Al, Yugo, Detective Kabuto, and Takeshi. But on their second encounter Kei, Hayato, and Ryo managed to devise a battle plan to disrupt the group tactics of the Hounds and used diluted rat poison to overwhelm the hounds by using their boosted sense of smell against them. The leader of the Hounds is a man named Stinger. He is the leader of the \"pack\" and all other members of the hounds default to him for orders unless otherwise told. At the height of an adrenaline induced frenzy he was able to fight evenly with Ryo in his half-transformed state. After his defeat at the hands of the Arms teens he quickly becomes very benevolent towards them. He often refers to the ARMS teens with nicknames referring to the body part they represent with their ARMS unit (Ryo = Right Arm, Hayato = Left Arm). Despite being a savage fighter and very adept tactician, he is a surrogate father figure to one of the Chapel children and cares deeply for them and his fellow hounds.\n\nThough Egrigori has spent decades shaping and steering the path of human evolution artificially, they also seek out, capture, and study natural genetic aberrations that pop up around the world. These mutations are kept imprisoned in an isolated and heavily fortified prison complex under strict guard so they can be studied. Due to the huge problems the ARMS teens were causing, the top brass at Egrigori recruited several of the most powerful mutants from the complex to go after them in exchange for their freedom.\n\nCarrilon Tower is the main base of Egrigori in America and the location of Alice. As such, it has many of the most lethal and advanced projects based there to act as a defense force. Carrilon Tower has many traps and seems capable of changing its layout to confuse intruders. In actuality, Carrilon Tower is the cyborg body of Dr. Dewey Graham; the foremost developer of all of Egrigori's cybernetics technology and creator of the Successors\n\nThe Successors - The Successors are the absolute pinnacle of Egrigori's cybernetics technology. They are so far advanced that they no longer have any organic parts whatsoever, not even a brain. The successors were once humans who had their thought patterns and memories digitized and stored in a state-of-the-art quantum computer system that is constantly being updated. This allows them to be instantly reincarnated into new bodies should the current body they are inhabiting become too damaged to operate or is destroyed. This makes them effectively immortal as long as the main computer remains operational. When they are first encountered in volume 16, the Successors operate as the security force for Carillon tower but they reveal that they have a much greater ultimate purpose: To completely replace humanity as the dominant life form on earth. According to them, humanity has become a blight upon the earth and once Egrigori achieves its goal of eliminating humankind they will take its place. All the Successors are equipped with standard hypersonic vibration generators which break down matter at the molecular level and cause it to shatter and crumble (including ARMS technology), acceleration modules that allow them to move as fast as high speed cyborgs, and are able to instantly coordinate perfectly with each other via a wireless communication link. In Volume 17 Dr. Graham admits that he might have been wrong in his philosophies and what he did to his son. He then initiates Carilon Tower's self-destruct system and erased the quantum computer backup system for the Successors. Effectively destroying their immortality and leaving them with only one life.\n\nThough they are numerous the Successors only exhibited two main personalities\n\nThe Modulated ARMS troops created by Egrigori are the ultimate culmination of their ARMS research. Led and trained by Takashi Takatsuki, each soldier is implanted with a mass-produced modulated ARMS unit. These units have no artificial intelligence like the original ARMS units and are not as powerful as the Original or the Keith series ARMS units, but are nonetheless extremely potent weapons in their own right. When first encountered, the individual appearance and functions implants of the troopers seems to vary widely from person to person. Whether this is due to design or by the influence of the individual trooper it was implanted in is unknown. However, several troopers exhibited near identical combat abilities to the original ARMS units and others showed new abilities. They share several standard abilities with both the Keith's and ARMS teens including extremely quick healing and rapid evolution and adaptation. They also share several weaknesses with the other ARMS units: due to the metallic composition of their bodies, they are highly suceptable to electricity based attacks(though they later evolved an immunity to them), and the power that the ARMS implants gave the troopers led them to become extremely overconfident in their abilities. This allowed them to be manipulated and outmaneuvered accordingly by the more sedate and tactical minded ARMS teens. Additionally, since the ARMS teens had lived with their ARMS for so long, they knew how to exploit weaknesses in the Trooper's tactics and their ARMS units themselves despite having their own ARMS units in an unusable dormant state at the time. In addition to the basic abilities given by their ARMS units, the troopers all have ultimate forms though they appear unable to transform between their human and ultimate forms at will. Each trooper is equipped with a limiter implant that partially suppresses their ARMS unit enough to keep them in human form but allows them to use their basic forms. The release of these limiters was placed under the control of their leader Takashi Takatsuki via a remote trigger device. When released, each trooper rapidly and violently evolves to their ultimate forms which has a completely unique appearance for each trooper; again, whether this is due to design or the influence of the trooper's personality is unknown. When transformed, they are more than a match for Kou Karunagi and Ryo, Takeshi, and Hayato with their dormant ARMS. However, when the original ARMS units awaken the troopers are obscenely outmatched by their much more powerful and battle hardened predecessors.\n\nThe series has been broadcast in Japan in TV Tokyo network, from April 7, 2001, to September 29, 2001. Internationally, it aired in countries such as the Philippines (ABS-CBN, Studio 23 and Hero networks) and Mexico, Argentina, Venezuela, Chile and Colombia (in Cityvibe network).\n\nViz Media were the original licensors of the anime, but it has since gone out of print. However, Discotek Media announced during their Otakon 2017 panel that they have rescued the series.\n\nIn 1999, the series received the 44th Shogakukan Manga Award for the \"shōnen\" category.\n\n"}
{"id": "20974933", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20974933", "title": "Psychic assault", "text": "Psychic assault\n\nPsychic assault is a term used by academic legal writers as a synonym for assault (or common assault) in order to distinguish that offence from the related crime of battery and so avoid confusion. The need for this term arises from the fact that the word assault is frequently used to refer collectively both to that offence and to battery.\n\nThe word 'psychic' is used to denote the fact that the actus reus of the offence that is correctly described as assault consists of affecting the mind of the other person (whereas battery consists of the application of force).\n\n"}
{"id": "13033621", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13033621", "title": "SS City of Everett", "text": "SS City of Everett\n\nThe SS \"City of Everett\" was an important whaleback steamship. She sailed from 1894 until 1923, and was the first U.S. steamship to pass through the Suez Canal, as well as the first to circumnavigate the globe. Her radio call letters were GF and her signal letters KMCQ.\n\nIn the 1890s, Alexander McDougall, the originator of the whaleback ship design, wanted to build ships in Washington, on the Pacific Coast. His steamer (1891 – 265 ft) became the first lake vessel to leave the Great Lakes when she took a load of grain from Duluth to Liverpool, England, shooting the St. Lawrence rapids in the process. \"Wetmore\" was sent around Cape Horn with a load of supplies for the establishment of a shipbuilding colony near Everett, Washington. From parts she carried, the \"City of Everett\" was built, commissioned in 1894. Intended to be the first of a line of whaleback ships built out of the facility in Everett, changing fortunes resulted in her being the only ship produced there by McDougall's ill-fated company.\n\nThe unarmed steamer “captured” the City of Malaga, Spain, when it entered the harbor seeking fresh water, which occasioned a surrender by the city’s inhabitants during the Spanish–American War.\n\nOn 8 September 1902, \"City of Everett\" suffered an explosion while loading at Port Arthur, Texas. Her captain, a mate, and several crew members were seriously injured; the resulting fire engulfed not only the ship, but also destroyed the docks and wharves of the Texas Company (later known as Texaco).\n\nIn January 1905, \"City of Everett\" collided with the Norwegian steam freighter \"Leif Eriksson\" north of Charleston, South Carolina. \"Leif Eriksson\" took on water through a deep gash in her hull, and sank in less than 10 minutes with the loss of two lives.\n\nNear Nantucket on 23 January 1909, \"City of Everett\" heard a distress signal from the RMS \"Republic\", which was taking on water following a collision. Captain Thomas Fenlon of the \"City of Everett\" twice offered his ship's considerable pumping and towing abilities, but with assistance reportedly on the way from the White Star Line, \"Republic\" declined. Fog delayed tugs of the White Star Line, and towing efforts by the smaller US Coast Guard cutter \"Gresham\" failed. \"Republic\" sank the next day. Newspapers at the time reported that if the White Star Line had been successful in recovering the \"Republic\" with company ships, instead of using a third-party salvor, it could have recouped some of its salvage expenses from the owners of the recovered cargo aboard the \"Republic\". The inference was that \"Republic's\" captain had refused aid merely to prevent another company from sharing the salvage award if the ship were to be saved. \"Everett's\" Captain Fenlon maintained that, as \"Republic\" had remained afloat until the day after the collision, she could have been saved if she had accepted a tow from \"City of Everett\", stating that his boat was \"built for ocean towing\" and was equipped with \"tremendously powerful machinery and towing cables seven inches (178 mm) in diameter\", as well as pumps with a capacity of \"two million gallons an hour\".\n\nWhile carrying molasses from Santiago, Cuba to New Orleans on 11 October 1923, \"City of Everett\" foundered in the Gulf of Mexico. All 26 people on board died in the sinking.\n\nOn September 11, 2010, divers from the Association of Underwater Explorers, Michael Barnette and Joe Citelli, identified the wreck of the \"City of Everett\" resting in approximately of sea water off Florida in the Gulf of Mexico.\n"}
{"id": "20097070", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20097070", "title": "Sessility (motility)", "text": "Sessility (motility)\n\nIn biology, sessility (in the sense of positional movement or \"motility\") refers to organisms that do not possess a means of self-locomotion and are normally immobile. This is distinct from the second meaning of sessility which refers to an organism or biological structure attached directly by its base without a stalk.\n\nSessile organisms can move through outside sources (such as water currents) but are usually permanently attached to something. Organisms such as corals lay down their own substrate from which they grow. Other organisms grow from a solid such as a rock, dead tree trunk, or a manmade object such as a buoy or ship's hull.\n\nSessile animals typically have a motile phase in their development. Sponges have a motile larval stage, which becomes sessile at maturity. In contrast, many jellyfish develop as sessile polyps early in their life cycle. In the case of the cochineal, it is in the nymph stage (also called the crawler stage) that the cochineal disperses. The juveniles move to a feeding spot and produce long wax filaments. Later they move to the edge of the cactus pad where the wind catches the wax filaments and carries the tiny larval cochineals to a new host.\n\nMany sessile animals, including sponges, corals and hydra, are capable of asexual reproduction \"in situ\" by the process of budding. Sessile organisms such as barnacles and tunicates need some mechanism to move their young into new territory. This is why the most widely accepted theory explaining the evolution of a larval stage is the need for long-distance dispersal ability. Wayne Sousa's 1979 study in intertidal disturbance added support for the theory of nonequilibrium community structure, “suggesting that open space is necessary for the maintenance of diversity in most communities of sessile organisms.”\n\nClumping is a behavior in sessile organisms, in which individuals of a particular species group closely to one another for beneficial purposes, and can be seen in coral reefs and cochineal populations. This allows for faster reproduction and better protection from predators.\n\nThe circa littoral zone of coastal environments and biomes are dominated by sessile organisms such as oysters. Carbonate platforms grow due to the buildup of skeletal remains of sessile organisms, usually microorganisms, which induce carbonate precipitation through their metabolism.\n\nIn anatomy and botany, \"sessility\" refers to an organism or biological structure that has no \"peduncle\" or stalk. See Peduncle (anatomy), Peduncle (botany) and Sessility (botany). A sessile structure has no stalk.\n\n"}
{"id": "4737947", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4737947", "title": "Suspension (punishment)", "text": "Suspension (punishment)\n\nSuspension is either paid or unpaid time away from the workplace as ordered by the employer in order for a workplace investigation to take place.\n\nSuspension is a common practice in the workplace for being in violation of an organization's policy, or major breaches of policy. Work suspensions occur when a business manager or supervisor deems an action of an employee, whether intentional or unintentional, to be a violation of policy that should result in a course of punishment, and when the employee's absence during the suspension period does not affect the company. This form of action hurts the employee because s/he will have no hours of work during the suspended period and therefore will not get paid, unless the suspension is with pay, or is challenged and subsequently overturned. Some jobs, which pay on salary, may have paid suspensions, in which the affected worker will be prevented from coming to work but will still receive pay. Generally, suspensions are deemed most effective if the affected worker remains unpaid. Suspensions are usually given after other means of counseling statements have been exhausted, but some violations may result in immediate suspension. Suspensions are tracked, and any number of them, even one may prevent one from receiving raises, bonuses or promotions, or could cause dismissal from the company.\n\nSuspension clauses are common components of collective bargaining agreements. Suspensions may be challenged by employees in unionized organizations through the filing of a grievance.\n\nSuspension on full pay can also be used when an employee needs to be removed from the workplace to avoid prejudicing an investigation. This is used not as a punishment, but in the employer's best interest. For example, a police officer who shoots a person while on duty will be given a suspension with pay during the investigation, not to punish, but to enable the department to carry out its investigation.\n\nSuspension is a punishment in sport where players are banned from playing a certain number of future games. These suspensions may be issued for severe infractions of the rules of play (such as personal fouls), excessive technical, or flagrant fouls for the duration of a season, fights during the course of the game in which the player was a part of the wrongdoing, or misconduct off the field (such as illegal or banned substance use).\n\nGenerally, an athlete who is suspended must forfeit his pay during the course of the suspension, and depending on the team's or league's rules, may not be permitted to don his uniform or be present with the team during the course of play, which often includes attending games in the stands as a typical spectator would.\n\nIn academia, suspension (also known as temporary exclusion) is a mandatory leave assigned to a student as a form of punishment that can last anywhere from one day to several weeks, during which time the student is not allowed to attend regular school lessons. \n\nIn-School Suspension (ISS) or On-Campus suspension (OCS), sometimes known as \"internal exclusion/isolation\", and by some Florida schools as \"School Center for Special Instruction\", is an alternative setting that removes students from the classroom for a period of time, while requiring students to attend school and complete their work. This form of punishment is often chosen because it provides supervision and structure to the students' days, whereas a student who is given an off-campus suspension receives essentially an unscheduled holiday, as off-campus suspension is widely considered to be nothing more than a pleasant reward to most students, instead of the punishment that it is intended to be, and also gives students more of a reason to misbehave on purpose, to those who would prefer to be suspended out of school, rather than being kept in school. Generally, a student assigned to on-campus suspension spends the entire school day in the designated OCS location, completes work submitted in advance by the student's teachers, and is monitored by school staff. One variation of in-school suspension requires the student to arrive at school at a designated time on a Saturday to serve out their punishment, rather than miss class time during the week. This type of punishment is commonly referred to as \"Saturday School\" or more commonly, \"Saturday Detention\", but it may go under other names as well. The name \"Saturday School\" is also used to indicate detention, a less serious punishment. If a student fails to show up at Saturday School, it might result in a more serious punishment being given to the student.\n\nThe student's parents or guardians are usually notified as to the reason for and the duration of the suspension. Sometimes students have to complete work during their suspensions for which they will receive no credit (OSS). Also, upon returning to school, it is often mandatory that the student, his/her parents/guardians, and a school administrator have a meeting to discuss and evaluate the matter. If the suspension is related to the symptoms of a disability or the student is receiving special education or mental health services, students may be required to consult their case manager, counselor, or school psychologist before and/or after the suspension. In some schools, this meeting is prior to the suspension. Applications to some colleges ask the student whether or not they have ever been suspended. In some places in the United States, a suspension is noted on one's transcript. However, other places do not report suspensions or are expressly forbidden from doing so under state law. Students who breach a suspension (attend the school while suspended) may be arrested for, and charged with trespassing. This could result in an extension of suspension, community service, and sometimes jail time. Students who continue to breach a suspension could be sentenced to expulsion and longer, more severe punishments. Students are also not allowed to attend after school activities (such as proms, sporting events, etc.) while suspended from school.\n\nIn Roman Catholic canon law, the censure of suspension prohibits certain acts by a cleric, whether the acts are of a religious character deriving from his ordination (\"acts of the power of orders\") or are exercises of his power of governance or of rights and functions attached to the office he holds.\n\nThis censure is automatically applied to a cleric who uses physical violence against a bishop, a deacon who attempts to celebrate the sacrifice of the Mass or a priest who, though not empowered to grant sacramental absolution attempts to do so or who hears sacramental confession, a cleric who celebrates a sacrament through simony, and on a person who receives ordination illicitly.\n\nThe censure of suspension (along with other punishments) is to be inflicted also on a cleric who openly lives in violation of chastity and on any priest who \"in the act, on the occasion, or under the pretext of confession\" solicits a penitent to a sexual sin. Suspension is incurred automatically by any cleric who falsely denounces a priest of having committed this delict.\n\n"}
{"id": "7909275", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7909275", "title": "Varmint of Burke's Garden", "text": "Varmint of Burke's Garden\n\nThe Varmint of Burke's Garden was the name given to a coyote that terrorized the community of Burke's Garden, Virginia, in 1952. The animal killed over 400 registered sheep and caused damages in excess of $32,000 before being killed.\n\nTo aid in the creature's capture, the board of supervisors of Tazewell County contacted Clell and Dale Lee, two of the best-known big-game hunters then active in the United States; their dogs were well known for being able to track most kinds of animals. The men were residents of Arizona, but were requested to come to Virginia to help local residents. Dale Lee was in Venezuela hunting jaguars, but his brother Clell was available and answered the call. He arrived in Bluefield to find himself coolly received by local farmers; however, Mrs. Meeks, the wife of one of the men, was kinder, and invited him to stay at her home.\n\nLee identified the animal by a track that had been left in a block of ice. His diagnosis shocked many, as no coyotes had been seen in the area in memory. Accompanied by the sheriff, as well as by local farmers, hunters, and game wardens, Lee and his dogs soon found the scent, following it for around five hours before nightfall.\n\nLee ordered all parties back to the hunt at dawn the next morning. The sheriff objected, saying that nobody in the county hunted on Sundays; Lee, however, explained that he had found a fresh scent, and saw no reason to impose upon locals any longer than necessary. Learning that the animal had struck again that night, killing two sheep, Lee stationed hunters near the site of the attack and set his dogs back on the scent. A Burke's Garden resident, Alfred Jones, killed the coyote after a chase of a few hours. Alfred was accompanied by Dewey Tibbs and Hugh Cox. The Varmint was killed in the Joe Moss Cemetery.\n\nThe creature was found to be quite large - it was nearly four-and-a-half feet long and weighed 35 pounds, and its fangs were an inch long.\n\nLocal residents were jubilant, and a dinner was held in Lee's honor. The coyote was strung up and hung from a tree near the courthouse, and nearly 7,500 people came through to see both the hunter and the dead animal. The animal was stuffed and is currently on display at the Crab Orchard Museum in Tazewell, Virginia.\n\nIn 1993, Burke's Garden began hosting the Varmint Half Marathon and 5K race, held annually in June. Winners receive trophies in the shape of sheep to commemorate the destruction caused by the Varmint.\n\n"}
{"id": "37611081", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37611081", "title": "Vukašin Šoškoćanin", "text": "Vukašin Šoškoćanin\n\nVukašin Šoškoćanin (; 24 June 1958 – 15 May 1991) was a Croatian Serb war commander. He was president of the Borovo commune and commander of the Borovo Selo Territorial Defense Force during the Croatian War. Born to Milan and Ljubica Šoškoćanin on 24 June 1958, Vukašin had two brothers, Radovan and Dušan. He became a member of the Serb Democratic Party in 1990. Before the war, he was a veterinary technician in Vukovar.\n\nCircumstances surrounding his death are largely unknown. On 15 May 1991 at around 10:30 AM, while returning from a visit to a refugee camp in Vojvodina, he drowned in the Danube river in a \"boating accident.\" \n\nMilan Paroški publicly questioned the official cause of death and claimed that frogmen (either the Yugoslav River Flotilla or the Serbian State Security) were responsible for Šoškoćanin's death. Paroški also claimed that Šoškoćanin was \"an excellent swimmer.\" His death is still labeled under \"mysterious circumstances.\"\n\nAfter his death, an elementary school in Borovo was named in his honour. He was posthumously awarded the title of \"Hero of the People\" in Beli Manastir on 25 September 1991.\n"}
{"id": "12257866", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12257866", "title": "Willa L. Fulmer", "text": "Willa L. Fulmer\n\nWilla Lybrand Fulmer (February 3, 1884 – May 13, 1968) was a United States Representative from South Carolina. She was born in Wagener, South Carolina where she attended the Wagener public schools. She graduated from Greenville (Baptist) Female College in Greenville, South Carolina, which eventually merged with Furman University.\n\nFulmer's husband, Hampton P. Fulmer, was a United States Representative from 1923 to 1944. She was elected as a Democrat to the Seventy-eighth Congress to fill the vacancy caused by his death in 1944, and served from November 7, 1944, to January 3, 1945. She was not a candidate for election to the Seventy-ninth Congress. After leaving Congress, she engaged in agricultural pursuits until her retirement. She died May 13, 1968 aboard a ship en route to Europe and was buried in Memorial Park Cemetery, Orangeburg, South Carolina.\n\n"}
{"id": "11338425", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11338425", "title": "Younger Dryas impact hypothesis", "text": "Younger Dryas impact hypothesis\n\nThe Younger Dryas impact hypothesis or Clovis comet hypothesis originally proposed that a large air burst or earth impact of one or more comets initiated the Younger Dryas cold period about 12,900 BP calibrated (10,900 C uncalibrated) years ago. The hypothesis has been contested by research as recent as 2017 showing that most of the conclusions cannot be repeated by other scientists, and criticized because of misinterpretation of data and the lack of confirmatory evidence.\n\nThe current impact hypothesis states that the air burst(s) or impact(s) of a swarm of carbonaceous chondrites or comet fragments set areas of the North American continent on fire, causing the extinction of most of the megafauna in North America and the demise of the North American Clovis culture after the last glacial period. The Younger Dryas ice age lasted for about 1,200 years before the climate warmed again. This swarm is hypothesized to have exploded above or possibly on the Laurentide Ice Sheet in the region of the Great Lakes, though no impact crater has yet been identified and no physical model by which such a swarm could form or explode in the air has been proposed. Nevertheless, the proponents suggest that it would be physically possible for such an air burst to have been similar to, but orders of magnitude larger than, the Tunguska event of 1908. The hypothesis proposed that animal and human life in North America not directly killed by the blast or the resulting coast-to-coast wildfires would have likely starved on the burned surface of the continent.\n\nThe evidence given by proponents of an impact event includes \"black mats\" of organic-rich soil that have been found at some 50 Clovis sites across the continent. Proponents have reported materials (nanodiamonds, metallic microspherules, carbon spherules, magnetic spherules, iridium, platinum, charcoal, soot, and fullerenes enriched in helium-3), which they interpret to be potential evidence of an impact event, at the very bottom of black mats of organic material that marks the beginning of the Younger Dryas, and it is claimed these cannot be explained by volcanic, anthropogenic, or other natural processes.\n\nResearch has been reported that at Lake Cuitzeo, in the central Mexican state of Guanajuato, evidence supporting a modified version of the Younger Dryas impact hypothesis—involving a much smaller, non-cometary impactor—was found in lake bed cores dating to 12,900 BP. The reported evidence included nanodiamonds (including the hexagonal form called lonsdaleite), carbon spherules, and magnetic spherules. Multiple hypotheses were examined to account for these observations, though none were believed to be terrestrial. Lonsdaleite occurs naturally in asteroids and cosmic dust and as a result of extraterrestrial impacts on Earth. The analysis of the study has not been confirmed or repeated by other researchers. Lonsdaleite has also been made artificially in laboratories.\n\nA 100-fold spike in the concentration of platinum has also been found in Greenland ice cores, dated to 12,890 BP with 5-year accuracy. A much weaker Pt anomaly was subsequently reported with approximate age dating at 11 continental Younger Dryas sites.\n\nAnother study, related to this hypothesis, by Antonio Zamora provides a model of the formation of the Carolina Bays as an indirect consequence of an impact of a comet-like body on the Laurentide Ice Sheet that ejected ice boulders in ballistic trajectories that created the Bays all heading to the Great Lakes Region. It also provides an explanation about the formation of Nebraska's rainwater basins and why they are all pointing to the Lakes Region too. However, this study does not apply the widely accepted standards for identifying and confirming terrestrial impact structures. \n\nIn 2018, evidence of a 31km diameter impact crater along with evidence of impact shock quartz, was found below the Hiawatha Glacier in Greenland, which - it was speculated - might have been connected with the Younger Dryas period.\n\nIt is conjectured that this impact event brought about the extinction of many species of North American Pleistocene megafauna. These animals included camels, mammoths, the giant short-faced bear, and numerous other species that the proponents suggest died out at this time. The proposed markers for the impact event are claimed to appear at the end of the Clovis culture.\n\nThe initial description of this hypothesis was published in a 2006 book. The following year, a paper with the same principal authors suggested that the impact event may have led to an immediate decline in human populations in North America at that time.\n\nAdditional data purported to support the synchronous nature of the black mats was published. The authors stated that the data required further analysis, and independent analysis of other Clovis sites for verification of this evidence. The authors stated that they remained skeptical of the bolide impact hypothesis as the cause of the Younger Dryas and the megafaunal extinction. They also concluded that \"...something major happened at 10,900 B.P. (C uncalibrated) that we have yet to understand.\"\n\nTransmission electron microscopy evidence purported to show nanodiamonds from a layer assumed to correspond to the geologic moment of the event was published in the journal \"Science\". Also, in the same issue, D.J. Kennett reported that the nanodiamonds were evidence for bolide impacts from a rare swarm of carbonaceous chondrites or comets at the start of Younger Dryas, resulting from multiple airbursts and surface impacts. This resulted in substantial loss of plant life, megafauna and other animals. This study has been strenuously disputed by some scientists for a variety of technical and professional reasons. \n\nThe disputing scientists claim that the study's conclusions could not be repeated, that further research suggests that no nanodiamonds were found, and that the supposed carbon spherules were, in fact, either fungus or insect feces and included modern contaminants.\n\nSome of the original proponents published a re-evaluation in June 2013 of spherules from 18 sites worldwide which they interpret to support their hypothesis. Further analysis of Younger Dryas boundary sediments at 9 sites, released in June 2016, found no evidence of an extraterrestrial impact at the YDB. In December 2016, an analysis of nanodiamond evidence failed to uncover lonsdaleite or a spike in nanodiamond concentration at the YDB. Radiocarbon dating, microscopy of paleobotanical samples, and analytical pyrolysis of fluvial sediments \"[found] no evidence in Arlington Canyon for an extraterrestrial impact or catastrophic impact-induced fire.\" Exposed fluvial sequences in Arlington Canyon on Santa Rosa Island \"features centrally in the controversial hypothesis of an extra-terrestrial impact at the onset of the Younger Dryas.\"\n\nIn 2018 two new papers were published dealing with a \"Extraordinary Biomass-Burning Episode\" associated with the Younger Dryas Impact.\n\nA study of Paleoindian demography found no evidence of a population decline among the Paleoindians at 12,900 ± 100 BP, which was inconsistent with predictions of an impact event. They suggested that the hypothesis would probably need to be revised.\nThere is also no evidence of continent-wide wildfires at any time during terminal Pleistocene deglaciation, though there is evidence that most larger wildfires had a human origin, which calls into question the origin of the \"black mat.\" Iridium, magnetic minerals, microspherules, carbon, and nanodiamonds are all subject to differing interpretations as to their nature and origin, and may be explained in many cases by purely terrestrial or non-catastrophic factors.\n\nThere is evidence that the megafaunal extinctions that occurred across northern Eurasia, North America, and South America at the end of the Pleistocene were not synchronous. The extinctions in South America appear to have occurred at least 400 years after the extinctions in North America. The extinction of woolly mammoths in Siberia also appears to have occurred later than in North America. A greater disparity in extinction timings is apparent in island megafaunal extinctions that lagged nearby continental extinctions by thousands of years; examples include the survival of woolly mammoths on Wrangel Island, Russia, until 3700 BP, and the survival of ground sloths in the Antilles, the Caribbean, until 4700 cal BP. The Australian megafaunal extinctions occurred approximately 30,000 years earlier than the hypothetical Younger Dryas event.\n\nThe megafaunal extinction pattern observed in North America poses a problem for the bolide impact scenario, since it raises the question why large mammals should be preferentially exterminated over small mammals or other vertebrates. Additionally, some extant megafaunal species such as bison and Brown bear seem to have been little affected by the extinction event, while the environmental devastation caused by a bolide impact would not be expected to discriminate. Also, it appears that there was collapse in North American megafaunal population from 14,800 to 13,700 BP, well before the date of the hypothetical extraterrestrial impact, possibly from anthropogenic activities, including hunting.\n\nScientists have asserted that the carbon spherules originated as fungal structures and/or insect fecal pellets, and contained modern contaminants and that the claimed nanodiamonds are actually misidentified graphene and graphene/graphane oxide aggregates. An analysis of a similar Younger Dryas boundary layer in Belgium yielded carbon crystalline structures such as nanodiamonds, but the authors concluded that they also did not show unique evidence for a bolide impact. Researchers have also have not found any extraterrestrial platinum group metals in the boundary layer which would be inconsistent with the hypothesized impact event. Further independent analysis was unable to confirm prior claims of magnetic particles and microspherules, concluding that there was no evidence for a Younger Dryas impact event.\n\nOther research has shown no support for the impact hypothesis. One group examined carbon-14 dates for charcoal particles that showed wildfires occurred well after the proposed impact date, and the glass-like carbon was produced by wildfires and no lonsdaleite was found. Analysis of fluvial sediments on Santa Rosa Island by another group also found no evidence of lonsdaleite, impact-induced fires, or extraterrestrial impact.\n\nResearch published in 2012 has shown that the so-called \"black mats\" are easily explained by typical earth processes in wetland environments. The study of black mats, that are common in prehistorical wetland deposits which represent shallow marshlands, that were from 6000 to 40,000 years ago in the southwestern USA and Atacama Desert in Chile, showed elevated concentrations of iridium and magnetic sediments, magnetic spherules and titanomagnetite grains. It was suggested that because these markers are found within or at the base of black mats, irrespective of age or location, suggests that these markers arise from processes common to wetland systems, and probably not as a result of catastrophic bolide impacts.\n\nA 2013 study found a spike in platinum in Greenland ice. The authors of that study conclude that such a small impact of an iron meteorite is “unlikely to result in an airburst or trigger wide wildfires proposed by the YDB impact hypothesis.\" But they write that the large Pt anomaly \"hints for an extraterrestrial source of Pt,\" showing that any disagreement with the proponents of the original YDIH is over the nature of the extraterrestrial object, not whether there was one, and it is much more likely that the Greenland Pt anomaly was caused by a small local iron meteorite fall without any widespread consequences. \n\nFinally, researchers have criticized the conclusions of various studies for incorrect age-dating of the sediments, contamination by modern carbon, inconsistent hypothesis that made it difficult to predict the type and size of bolide, lack of proper identification of lonsdaleite, confusing an extraterrestrial impact with other causes such as fire, and for inconsistent use of the carbon spherule \"proxy\". Naturally occurring lonsdaleite has also been identified in non-bolide diamond placer deposits in the Sakha Republic.\n\nIt should be noted that proponents of the hypothesis have responded to defend their findings, disputing the accusation of irreproducibility or replicating their findings. Critics of the hypothesis have repeatedly addressed the responses and continue to publish counterarguments.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19729624", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19729624", "title": "Zachary Taylor", "text": "Zachary Taylor\n\nZachary Taylor (November 24, 1784 – July 9, 1850) was the 12th President of the United States, serving from March 1849 until his death in July 1850. Taylor previously was a career officer in the United States Army, rose to the rank of major general and became a national hero as a result of his victories in the Mexican–American War. As a result, he won election to the White House despite his vague political beliefs. His top priority as president was preserving the Union, but he died sixteen months into his term, before making any progress on the status of slavery, which had been inflaming tensions in Congress.\n\nTaylor was born into a prominent family of planters who migrated westward from Virginia to Kentucky in his youth. He was commissioned as an officer in the U.S. Army in 1808 and made a name for himself as a Captain in the War of 1812. He climbed the ranks establishing military forts along the Mississippi River and entered the Black Hawk War as a Colonel in 1832. His success in the Second Seminole War attracted national attention and earned him the nickname \"Old Rough and Ready\". In 1845, during the annexation of Texas, President James K. Polk dispatched Taylor to the Rio Grande in anticipation of a battle with Mexico over the disputed Texas–Mexico border. The Mexican–American War broke out in April 1846, and Taylor defeated Mexican troops commanded by General Mariano Arista at the battles of Palo Alto and Resaca de la Palma and drove his troops out of Texas. Taylor then led his troops into Mexico, where they defeated Mexican troops commanded by Pedro de Ampudia at the Battle of Monterrey. Defying orders, Taylor led his troops further south and, despite being severely outnumbered, dealt a crushing blow to Mexican forces under Antonio López de Santa Anna at the Battle of Buena Vista. Taylor's troops were transferred to the command of Major General Winfield Scott, but Taylor retained his popularity.\n\nThe Whig Party convinced the reluctant Taylor to lead their ticket in the 1848 presidential election, despite his unclear political tenets and lack of interest in politics. At the 1848 Whig National Convention, Taylor defeated Scott and former Senator Henry Clay to take the nomination. He won the general election alongside New York politician Millard Fillmore, defeating Democratic Party candidates Lewis Cass and William Orlando Butler, as well as a third-party effort led by former president Martin Van Buren and Charles Francis Adams, Sr. of the Free Soil Party. Taylor became the first president to be elected without having served in a prior political office.\n\nAs president, Taylor kept his distance from Congress and his cabinet, even though partisan tensions threatened to divide the Union. Debate over the status of slavery in the Mexican Cession dominated the political agenda and led to threats of secession from Southerners. Despite being a Southerner and a slaveholder himself, Taylor did not push for the expansion of slavery, and sought sectional harmony above all other concerns. To avoid the issue of slavery, he urged settlers in New Mexico and California to bypass the territorial stage and draft constitutions for statehood, setting the stage for the Compromise of 1850. Taylor died suddenly of a stomach-related illness in July 1850, with his administration having accomplished little aside from the ratification of the Clayton–Bulwer Treaty. Fillmore served the remainder of his term. Historians and scholars have ranked Taylor in the bottom quartile of U.S. presidents, owing in part to his short term of office (16 months), and he has been described as \"more a forgettable president than a failed one.\"\n\nZachary Taylor was born on November 24, 1784, on a plantation in Orange County, Virginia, to a prominent family of planters of English ancestry. His birthplace may have been Hare Forest Farm, the home of his maternal grandfather William Strother, though this has not been determined with certainty. He was the third of five surviving sons in his family (a sixth died in infancy) and had three younger sisters. His mother was Sarah Dabney (Strother) Taylor. His father, Richard Taylor, had served as a lieutenant colonel in the American Revolution.\n\nTaylor was a descendant of Elder William Brewster, a Pilgrim leader of the Plymouth Colony, a \"Mayflower\" immigrant, and a signer of the Mayflower Compact; and Isaac Allerton Jr., a colonial merchant, colonel, and son of \"Mayflower\" Pilgrim Isaac Allerton and Fear Brewster. Taylor's second cousin through that line was James Madison, the fourth president.\n\nHis family forsook their exhausted Virginia land, joined the westward migration and settled near future Louisville, Kentucky, on the Ohio River. Taylor grew up in a small woodland cabin until, with increased prosperity, his family moved to a brick house. The rapid growth of Louisville was a boon for Taylor's father, who by the start of the 19th century had acquired throughout Kentucky, as well as 26 slaves to cultivate the most developed portion of his holdings. Taylor's formal education was sporadic because Kentucky's education system was just taking shape during his formative years. His mother taught him to read and write, and he later attended a school operated by Elisha Ayer, a teacher originally from Connecticut. He also attended a Middletown, Kentucky academy run by Kean O'Hara, a classically trained scholar originally from Ireland, and the father of Theodore O'Hara. Ayer recalled Taylor as a patient and quick learner, but his early letters showed a weak grasp of spelling and grammar, as well as poor handwriting. All improved over time, though his handwriting was always difficult to read.\n\nIn June 1810, Taylor married Margaret Mackall Smith, whom he had met the previous autumn in Louisville. \"Peggy\" Smith came from a prominent family of Maryland planters—she was the daughter of Major Walter Smith, who had served in the Revolutionary War. The couple had six children:\nOn May 3, 1808 Taylor joined the U.S. Army, receiving a commission as a first lieutenant of the Seventh Infantry Regiment. He was among the new officers commissioned by Congress in response to the Chesapeake–Leopard Affair, in which an American frigate had been boarded by the crew of a British warship, sparking calls for war. Taylor spent much of 1809 in the dilapidated camps of New Orleans and nearby Terre aux Boeufs, in the Territory of Orleans. Under the command of James Wilkinson, the soldiers at Terre aux Boeufs suffered greatly from disease and lack of supplies, and Taylor was given an extended leave, returning to Louisville to recover.\n\nTaylor was promoted to captain in November 1810. His army duties were limited at this time, and he attended to his personal finances. Over the next several years, he began to purchase a good deal of bank stock in Louisville. He also bought a plantation in Louisville, as well as the Cypress Grove Plantation in Jefferson County, Mississippi Territory. These acquisitions included slaves, rising in number to more than 200. In July 1811 he was called to the Indiana Territory, where he assumed control of Fort Knox after the commandant fled. In a few weeks, he was able to restore order in the garrison, for which he was lauded by Governor William Henry Harrison. Taylor was temporarily called to Washington to testify for Wilkinson as a witness in a court-martial, and so he did not take part in the November 1811 Battle of Tippecanoe against the forces of Tecumseh, a Shawnee chief.\n\nDuring the War of 1812, in which U.S. forces battled the British Empire and its Indian allies, Taylor successfully defended Fort Harrison in Indiana Territory from an Indian attack commanded by Tecumseh. The September 1812 battle represented the first land victory of the war for the American forces, for which Taylor received wide praise, as well as a brevet (temporary) promotion to the rank of major. According to Eisenhower, this represented the first brevet ever awarded in United States history. Later that year, Taylor joined General Samuel Hopkins as an aide on two expeditions—the first into the Illinois Territory and the second to the Tippecanoe battle site, where they were forced to retreat in the Battle of Wild Cat Creek. Taylor moved his growing family to Fort Knox after the violence subsided.\n\nIn the spring of 1814, he was called back into action under Brigadier General Benjamin Howard, and after Howard fell sick, Taylor led a 430-man expedition from St. Louis, up the Mississippi River. In the Battle of Credit Island, Taylor defeated Indian forces, but retreated after the Indians were joined by their British allies. That October he supervised the construction of Fort Johnson near present-day Warsaw, Illinois, the last toehold of the U.S. Army in the upper Mississippi River Valley. Upon Howard's death a few weeks later, Taylor was ordered to abandon the fort and retreat to St. Louis. Reduced to the rank of captain when the war ended in 1815, he resigned from the army. He re-entered it a year later after gaining a commission as a major.\n\nFor two years, Taylor commanded Fort Howard at the Green Bay, Michigan Territory settlement, then he returned to Louisville and his family. In April 1819 he was promoted to the rank of lieutenant colonel and dined with President James Monroe and General Andrew Jackson. In late 1821, Taylor took the 7th Infantry to Natchitoches, Louisiana, on the Red River. On the orders of General Edmund P. Gaines, they set out to locate a new post more convenient to the Sabine River frontier. By the following March, Taylor had established Fort Jesup, at the Shield's Spring site southwest of Natchitoches.\n\nThat November (1822) he was transferred to Baton Rouge on the Mississippi River in Louisiana, where he remained until February 1824. He spent the next few years on recruiting duty. In late 1826, he was called to Washington, D.C., for work on an Army committee to consolidate and improve military organization. In the meantime Taylor acquired his first Louisiana plantation and decided to move with his family to their new home in Baton Rouge.\n\nIn May 1828, Taylor was called back to action, commanding Fort Snelling in Michigan Territory (now Minnesota) on the northern Mississippi River for a year, and then nearby Fort Crawford for a year. After some time on furlough, spent expanding his landholdings, Taylor was promoted to colonel of the 1st Infantry Regiment in April 1832, when the Black Hawk War was beginning in the West. Taylor campaigned under General Henry Atkinson to pursue and later defend against Chief Black Hawk's forces throughout the summer. The end of the war in August 1832 signaled the final Indian resistance to U.S. expansion in the area.\n\nDuring this period Taylor opposed the courtship of his 17-year-old daughter Sarah Knox Taylor with Lieutenant Jefferson Davis, the future President of the Confederate States of America. He respected Davis but did not wish his daughter to become a military wife, as he knew it was a hard life for families. Davis and Sarah Taylor married in June 1835 (when she was 21), but she died three months later of malaria contracted on a visit to Davis's sister's home in St. Francisville, Louisiana.\n\nBy 1837, the Second Seminole War was underway when Taylor was directed to Florida. He defeated the Seminole Indians in the Christmas Day Battle of Lake Okeechobee, which was among the largest U.S.–Indian battles of the nineteenth century; as a result, he was promoted to brigadier general. In May 1838, Brig. Gen. Thomas Jesup stepped down and placed Taylor in command of all American troops in Florida, a position he held for two years—his reputation as a military leader was growing and he became known as \"Old Rough and Ready.\" Taylor was criticized for using bloodhounds in order to track Seminole.\n\nAfter his long-requested relief was granted, Taylor spent a comfortable year touring the nation with his family and meeting with military leaders. During this period, he began to be interested in politics and corresponded with President William Henry Harrison. He was made commander of the Second Department of the Army's Western Division in May 1841. The sizable territory ran from the Mississippi River westward, south of the 37th parallel north. Stationed in Arkansas, Taylor enjoyed several uneventful years, spending as much time attending to his land speculation as to military matters.\n\nIn anticipation of the annexation of the Republic of Texas, which had established independence in 1836, Taylor was sent in April 1844 to Fort Jesup in Louisiana, and ordered to guard against attempts by Mexico to reclaim the territory. There were more senior generals in the army who might have taken this important command, such as Winfield Scott and Edmund P. Gaines. But both were known members of the Whig Party, and Taylor's apolitical reputation and friendly relations with Andrew Jackson made him the choice of Democratic President James K. Polk. Polk directed him to deploy into disputed territory in Texas, \"on or near the Rio Grande\" near Mexico. Taylor chose a spot at Corpus Christi, and his Army of Occupation encamped there until the following spring in anticipation of a Mexican attack.\n\nWhen Polk's attempts to negotiate with Mexico failed, Taylor's men advanced to the Rio Grande in March 1846, and war appeared imminent. Violence broke out several weeks later, when some of Captain Seth B. Thornton's men were attacked by Mexican forces north of the river. Polk, learning of the Thornton Affair, told Congress in May that a war between Mexico and the U.S. had begun. That same month, Taylor commanded American forces at the Battle of Palo Alto and the nearby Battle of Resaca de la Palma. Though greatly outnumbered, he defeated the Mexican \"Army of the North\" commanded by General Mariano Arista, and forced the troops back across the Rio Grande. Taylor was later praised for his humane treatment of the wounded Mexican soldiers prior to the prisoner exchange with General Arista, giving them the same care as was given to American wounded. After tending to the wounded, he performed the last rites for the dead of both the American and Mexican soldiers killed during the battle.\n\nThese victories made him a popular hero, and in May 1846 Taylor received a brevet promotion to major general and a formal commendation from Congress. In June, Taylor was promoted to the full rank of major general. The national press compared him to George Washington and Andrew Jackson, both generals who had ascended to the presidency, although Taylor denied any interest in running for office. \"Such an idea never entered my head,\" he remarked in a letter, \"nor is it likely to enter the head of any sane person.\"\n\nAfter crossing the Rio Grande, in September Taylor inflicted heavy casualties upon the Mexicans at the Battle of Monterrey, and captured that city in three days, despite its impregnable repute. Taylor was criticized for signing a \"liberal\" truce, rather than pressing for a large-scale surrender. Polk had hoped that the occupation of Northern Mexico would induce the Mexicans to sell Alta California and New Mexico, but the Mexicans remained unwilling to part with so much territory. Polk sent an army under the command of Winfield Scott to besiege Veracruz, an important Mexican port city, while Taylor was ordered to remain near Monterrey. Many of Taylor's experienced soldiers were placed under the command of Scott, leaving Taylor with a smaller and less effective force. Mexican General Antonio López de Santa Anna intercepted a letter from Scott regarding Taylor's smaller force, and he moved north, intent on destroying Taylor's force before confronting Scott's army.\n\nLearning of Santa Anna's approach, and refusing to retreat despite the Mexican army's greater numbers, Taylor established a strong defensive position near the town of Saltillo. Santa Anna attacked Taylor with 20,000 men at the Battle of Buena Vista in February 1847, leaving around 700 Americans dead or wounded at a cost of over 1,500 Mexican. Outmatched, the Mexican forces retreated, ensuring a \"far-reaching\" victory for the Americans.\n\nIn recognition of his victory at Buena Vista, on July 4, 1847 Taylor was elected an honorary member of the New York Society of the Cincinnati, the Virginia branch of which included his father as a charter member. Taylor also was made a member of the Aztec Club of 1847, Military Society of the Mexican War.\n\nTaylor remained at Monterrey until late November 1847, when he set sail for home. While he spent the following year in command of the Army's entire western division, his active military career was effectively over. In December he received a hero's welcome in New Orleans and Baton Rouge, which set the stage for the 1848 presidential election.\n\nIn his capacity as a career officer, Taylor had never publicly revealed his political beliefs before 1848 nor voted before that time. He thought of himself as an independent, believing in a strong and sound banking system for the country, and thought that President Andrew Jackson, a Democrat, should not have allowed the Second Bank of the United States to collapse in 1836. He believed it was impractical to expand slavery into the western areas of the U.S., as neither cotton nor sugar (both were produced in great quantities as a result of slavery) could be easily grown there through a plantation economy. He was also a firm nationalist, and due to his experience of seeing many people die as a result of warfare, he believed that secession was not a good way to resolve national problems.\n\nWell before the American victory at Buena Vista, political clubs were formed which supported Taylor for president. His support was drawn from an unusually broad assortment of political bands, including Whigs and Democrats, Northerners and Southerners, allies and opponents of national leaders such as Henry Clay and James K. Polk. By late 1846 Taylor's opposition to a presidential run began to weaken, and it became clear that his principles more closely resembled Whig orthodoxy. As support for Taylor's candidacy grew, he continued to keep his distance from both parties, but made it clear that he would have voted for Whig Henry Clay in 1844 had he voted. In a widely publicized September 1847 letter, Taylor stated his positions on several issues. He did not favor chartering another national bank, favored a low tariff, and believed that the president should play no role in making laws. Taylor did believe that the president could veto laws, but only when they were clearly unconstitutional. Many southerners believed that Taylor supported slavery and its expansion into the new territory absorbed from Mexico, and some were angered when Taylor suggested that if he were elected president he would not veto the Wilmot Proviso, which proposed against such an expansion. This position did not enhance his support from activist antislavery elements in the Northern U.S., as these wanted Taylor to speak out strongly in support of the Proviso, not simply fail to veto it. Most abolitionists did not support Taylor, since he was a slave-owner.\n\nIn February 1848, Taylor again announced that he would not accept either party's presidential nomination. Taylor's reluctance to identify himself as a Whig nearly cost him the party's presidential nomination, but Senator John J. Crittenden of Kentucky and other supporters finally convinced Taylor to declare himself a Whig. Though Clay retained a strong following among the Whigs, Whig leaders like William H. Seward and Abraham Lincoln were eager to support a war hero who could potentially replicate the success of the party's only other successful presidential candidate, William Henry Harrison. At the 1848 Whig National Convention, Taylor defeated Clay and Winfield Scott to receive the Whig nomination for president. For his vice presidential nominee the convention chose Millard Fillmore, a prominent New York Whig who had chaired the House Ways and Means Committee and had been a contender for Clay's vice presidential nominee in the 1844 election. Fillmore's selection was largely an attempt at reconciliation with northern Whigs, who were furious at the nomination of a slaveowning southerner; all factions of the party were dissatisfied with the final ticket. Taylor continued to minimize his role in the campaign, preferring not to directly meet with voters or correspond regarding his political views. His campaign was skillfully directed by Crittenden, and bolstered by a late endorsement from Senator Daniel Webster of Massachusetts.\n\nDemocrats were even less unified than the Whigs, as former Democratic President Martin Van Buren broke from the party and led the anti-slavery Free Soil Party's ticket. Van Buren won the support of many Democrats and Whigs who opposed extension of slavery into the territories, but he took more votes from Democratic nominee Lewis Cass in the crucial state of New York. Nationally, Taylor defeated Cass and Van Buren, taking 163 of the 290 electoral votes. In the popular vote, he took 47.3%, while Cass won 42.5% and Van Buren won 10.1%. Taylor would be the last Whig to be elected president and the last person elected to the U.S. presidency from neither the Democratic Party or the Republican Party, as well as the last Southerner to win a presidential election until Woodrow Wilson's election in 1912.\n\nTaylor ignored the Whig platform, as historian Michael F. Holt explains:\n\nAs president-elect, Taylor kept his distance from Washington, not resigning his Western Division command until late January 1849. He spent the months following the election formulating his cabinet selections. He was deliberate and quiet about his decisions, to the frustration of his fellow Whigs. While he despised patronage and political games, he endured a flurry of advances from office-seekers looking to play a role in his administration.\n\nWhile he would not appoint any Democrats, Taylor wanted his cabinet to reflect the nation's diverse interests, and so apportioned the seats geographically. He also avoided choosing prominent Whigs, sidestepping such obvious selections as Clay. He saw Crittenden as a cornerstone of his administration, offering him the crucial seat of Secretary of State, but Crittenden insisted on serving out the Governorship of Kentucky to which he had just been elected. Taylor settled instead on Senator John M. Clayton of Delaware, a close associate of Crittenden's.\n\nWith Clayton's aid, Taylor chose the six remaining members of his cabinet. One of the incoming Congress's first actions would be to establish the Department of the Interior, so Taylor would be appointing that department's inaugural secretary. Thomas Ewing, who had previously served as a senator from Ohio and as Secretary of the Treasury under William Henry Harrison, accepted the patronage-rich position of Secretary of the Interior. For the position of Postmaster General, which also served as a center of patronage, Taylor chose Congressman Jacob Collamer of Vermont. After Horace Binney refused appointment as Secretary of the Treasury, Taylor chose another prominent Philadelphian in William M. Meredith. George W. Crawford, a former Governor of Georgia, accepted the position of Secretary of War, while Congressman William B. Preston of Virginia became Secretary of the Navy. Senator Reverdy Johnson of Maryland accepted appointment as Attorney General, and Johnson became one of the most influential members of Taylor's cabinet. Vice President Fillmore was not in favor with Taylor, and Fillmore was largely sidelined throughout Taylor's presidency.\n\nTaylor began his trek to Washington in late January, a journey rife with bad weather, delays, injuries, sickness—and an abduction by a family friend. Taylor finally arrived in the nation's capital on February 24 and soon met with the outgoing President Polk. The incumbent Democrat held a low opinion of Taylor, privately deeming him \"without political information\" and \"wholly unqualified for the station\" of president. Taylor spent the following week meeting with political elites, some of whom were unimpressed with his appearance and demeanor. With less than two weeks until his inauguration, he met with Clayton and hastily finalized his cabinet.\n\nTaylor's term as president began Sunday, March 4, but his inauguration was not held until the following day out of religious concerns. His inauguration speech discussed the many tasks facing the nation, but presented a governing style of deference to Congress and sectional compromise instead of assertive executive action. His speech also emphasized the importance of following President Washington's precedent in avoiding entangling alliances. During the period after his inauguration, Taylor made time to meet with numerous office-seekers and other ordinary citizens who desired his attention. He also attended an unusual number of funerals, including services for former president Polk and Dolley Madison. According to Eisenhower, Taylor coined the phrase \"First Lady\" in his eulogy for Madison. Throughout the summer of 1849, Taylor toured the northeastern U.S., to familiarize himself with a region of which he had seen little. He spent much of the trip plagued by gastrointestinal illness and returned to Washington by September.\n\nAs Taylor took office, Congress faced a battery of questions related to the Mexican Cession, acquired by the U.S. after the Mexican War and divided into military districts. It was unclear which districts would be established into states and which would become federal territories, while the question of their slave status threatened to bitterly divide Congress. Additionally, many in the South had grown increasingly angry about the aid that northerners had given to fugitive slaves. While a southern slaveowner himself, Taylor believed that slavery was economically infeasible in the Mexican Cession, and as such he opposed slavery in those territories as a needless source of controversy. His major goal was sectional peace, preserving the Union through legislative compromise. As the threat of Southern secession grew, he sided increasingly with antislavery northerners such as Senator William H. Seward of New York, even suggesting that he would sign the Wilmot Proviso to ban slavery in federal territories should such a bill reach his desk.\n\nIn Taylor's view, the best way forward was to admit California as a state rather than a federal territory, as it would leave the slavery question out of Congress's hands. The timing for statehood was in Taylor's favor, as the Gold Rush was well underway at the time of his inauguration, and California's population was exploding. The administration dispatched Rep. Thomas Butler King to California, to test the waters and advocate on behalf of statehood, knowing that the Californians were certain to adopt an anti-slavery constitution. King found that a constitutional convention was already underway, and by October 1849, the convention unanimously agreed to join the Union—and to ban slavery within their borders.\n\nThe question of the New Mexico–Texas border was unsettled at the time of Taylor's inauguration. The territory newly won from Mexico was under federal jurisdiction, but the Texans claimed a swath of land north of Santa Fe and were determined to include it within their borders, despite having no significant presence there. Taylor sided with the New Mexicans' claim, initially pushing to keep it as a federal territory, but eventually supported statehood so as to further reduce the slavery debate in Congress. The Texas government, under newly instated governor P. Hansborough Bell, tried to ramp up military action in defense of the territory against the federal government, but was unsuccessful.\n\nThe Latter Day Saint settlers of modern-day Utah had established a provisional State of Deseret, an enormous swath of territory which had little hope of recognition by Congress. The Taylor administration considered combining the California and Utah territories, but instead opted to organize the Utah Territory. To alleviate the Mormon population's concerns over religious freedom, Taylor promised they would have relative independence from Congress despite being a federal territory.\n\nTaylor sent his only State of the Union report to Congress in December 1849. He recapped international events and suggested several adjustments to tariff policy and executive organization, but such issues were overshadowed by the sectional crisis facing Congress. He reported on California's and New Mexico's applications for statehood, and recommended that Congress approve them as written and \"should abstain from the introduction of those exciting topics of a sectional character\". The policy report was prosaic and unemotional, but ended with a sharp condemnation of secessionists. It had no effect on Southern legislators, who saw the admission of two free states as an existential threat, and Congress remained stalled.\n\nTaylor and his Secretary of State, John M. Clayton, both lacked diplomatic experience, and came into office at a relatively uneventful time in American–international politics. Their shared nationalism allowed Taylor to devolve foreign policy matters to Clayton with minimal oversight, although no decisive foreign policy was established under their administration. As opponents of the autocratic European order, they vocally supported German and Hungarian liberals in the revolutions of 1848, although they offered little in the way of aid. A perceived insult from the French minister Guillaume Tell Poussin nearly led to a break in diplomatic relations until Poussin was replaced, and a reparation dispute with Portugal resulted in harsh words from the Taylor administration. In a more positive effort, the administration arranged for two ships to assist in the United Kingdom's search for a team of British explorers, led by John Franklin, who had gotten lost in the Arctic. While previous Whig administrations had emphasized Pacific trade as an economic imperative, the Taylor administration took no major initiative in the Far East.\n\nThroughout 1849 and 1850, they contended with Narciso López, the Venezuelan radical who led repeated filibustering expeditions in an attempt to conquer the island of Cuba. The annexation of Cuba was the object of fascination among many in the South, who saw in Cuba a potential new slave state, and López had several prominent Southern supporters. López made generous offers to American military leaders to support him, but Taylor and Clayton saw the enterprise as illegal. They issued a blockade, and later, authorized a mass arrest of López and his fellows, although the group would eventually be acquitted. They also confronted Spain, which had arrested several Americans on the charge of piracy, but the Spaniards eventually surrendered them to maintain good relations with the U.S.\n\nArguably the Taylor administration's definitive accomplishment in foreign policy was the Clayton–Bulwer Treaty of 1850, regarding a proposed inter-oceanic canal through Central America. While the U.S. and Britain were on friendly terms, and the construction of such a canal was decades away from reality, the mere possibility put the two nations in an uneasy position. For several years, Britain had been seizing strategic points, particularly the Mosquito Coast on the eastern coast of present-day Nicaragua. Negotiations were held with Britain that resulted in the landmark Clayton–Bulwer Treaty. Both nations agreed not to claim control of any canal that might be built in Nicaragua. The treaty promoted development of an Anglo-American alliance; its completion was Taylor's last action as president.\n\nClay took a central role as Congress debated the slavery question. While his positions had some overlap with Taylor's, the president always maintained his distance from Clay. Historians disagree on his motivations for doing so. With assistance from Daniel Webster, Clay developed his landmark proposal, the Compromise of 1850. The proposal allowed statehood for California, giving it independence on the slavery question, while the other territories would remain under federal jurisdiction. This would include the disputed parts of New Mexico, although Texas would be reimbursed for the territory. Slavery would be retained in the District of Columbia, but the slave trade would be banned. Meanwhile, a strict Fugitive Slave Law would be enacted, bypassing northern legislation which had restricted Southerners from retrieving runaway slaves. Tensions flared as Congress negotiated and secession talks grew, culminating with a threat from Taylor to send troops into New Mexico to protect its border from Texas, with himself leading the army. Taylor also said that anyone \"taken in rebellion against the Union, he would hang ... with less reluctance than he had hanged deserters and spies in Mexico.\" The omnibus law was a major step forward but ultimately could not pass, due to extremists on both sides.\n\nNo great compromise reached Taylor's desk during his presidency; instead, his last days were overshadowed by the Galphin affair. Before joining the Taylor cabinet, Secretary of War Crawford had served as a lawyer. He had been involved in a fifteen-year case, representing the descendants of a colonial trader whose services to the British crown had not been repaid at the time of the American Revolution. The British debt to George Galphin was to be assumed by the federal government, but Galphin's heirs only received payment on the debt's principal after years of litigation, and were unable to win an interest payment from the Polk administration. Treasury Secretary Meredith, with the support of Attorney General Johnson, finally signed off on the payment in April 1850. To the president's embarrassment, this payment included a legal compensation of nearly $100,000 to Crawford; two cabinet members had effectively offered a tremendous chunk of the public treasury to another. A House investigation cleared Crawford of any legal wrongdoing, but nonetheless expressed disapproval of his accepting the payment. Taylor, who had already been sketching out a re-organization of his cabinet, now had an unfolding scandal to complicate the situation.\n\nOn July 4, 1850, Taylor reportedly consumed copious amounts of raw fruit and iced milk while attending holiday celebrations during a fund-raising event at the Washington Monument, which was then under construction. Over the course of several days, he became severely ill with an unknown digestive ailment. His doctor \"diagnosed the illness as cholera morbus, a flexible mid-nineteenth-century term for intestinal ailments as diverse as diarrhea and dysentery but not related to Asiatic cholera\", the latter being a widespread epidemic at the time of Taylor's death. The identity and source of Taylor's illness are the subject of historical speculation (see below), although it is known that several of his cabinet members had come down with a similar illness.\n\nFever ensued and Taylor's chance of recovery was small. On July 8, Taylor remarked to a medical attendant:\n\nI should not be surprised if this were to terminate in my death. I did not expect to encounter what has beset me since my elevation to the Presidency. God knows I have endeavored to fulfill what I conceived to be an honest duty. But I have been mistaken. My motives have been misconstrued, and my feelings most grossly outraged.\nDespite treatment, Taylor died at 10:35 p.m. on July 9, 1850. He was 65 years old. After his death, Vice President Fillmore assumed the presidency and completed Taylor's term, which ended on March 4, 1853. Soon after taking office, Fillmore signed into law the Compromise of 1850, which settled many of the issues faced by the Taylor administration.\n\nTaylor was interred in the Public Vault of the Congressional Cemetery in Washington, D.C., from July 13, 1850, to October 25, 1850. (It was built in 1835 to hold remains of notables until either the grave site could be prepared or transportation arranged to another city.) His body was transported to the Taylor Family plot where his parents were buried on the old Taylor homestead plantation known as \"Springfield\" in Louisville, Kentucky.\n\nBecause of his short tenure, Taylor is not considered to have strongly influenced the office of the Presidency or the United States. Some historians believe that Taylor was too inexperienced with politics, at a time when officials needed close ties with political operatives. Despite his shortcomings, the Clayton–Bulwer Treaty affecting relations with Great Britain in Central America is \"recognized as an important step in scaling down the nation's commitment to Manifest Destiny as a policy.\" While historical rankings of Presidents of the United States have generally placed Taylor in the bottom quarter of chief executives, most surveys tend to rank him as the most effective of the four presidents from the Whig Party.\n\nTaylor was the last president to own slaves while in office. He was the third of four Whig presidents, the last being Fillmore, his successor. Taylor was also the second president to die in office, preceded by William Henry Harrison, who died while serving as president nine years earlier.\n\nIn 1883, the Commonwealth of Kentucky placed a 50-foot monument topped by a life-sized statue of Taylor near his grave. By the 1920s, the Taylor family initiated the effort to turn the Taylor burial grounds into a national cemetery. The Commonwealth of Kentucky donated two adjacent parcels of land for the project, turning the half-acre Taylor family cemetery into . On May 6, 1926, the remains of Taylor and his wife (who died in 1852) were moved to the newly constructed Taylor mausoleum, made of limestone with a granite base and marble interior, nearby. The cemetery property has been designated as the Zachary Taylor National Cemetery.\n\nThe US Post Office released the first postage stamp issue honoring Zachary Taylor on June 21, 1875, 25 years after his death. In 1938, Taylor would appear again on a US postage stamp, this time on the 12-cent Presidential Issue of 1938. Taylor's last appearance (to date, 2010) on a US postage stamp occurred in 1986, when he was honored on the AMERIPEX presidential issue. After Washington, Jefferson, Jackson and Lincoln, Zachary Taylor was the fifth American president to appear on US postage.\n\nHe is the namesake for several entities and places around the United States, including:\n\nPresident Taylor was also the namesake for architect Zachary Taylor Davis.\n\nAlmost immediately after his death, rumors began to circulate that Taylor was poisoned by pro-slavery Southerners, and similar theories persisted into the 21st century. In 1978, Hamilton Smith based his assassination theory on the timing of drugs, the lack of confirmed cholera outbreaks, and other material. In the late 1980s, Clara Rising, a former professor at University of Florida, persuaded Taylor's closest living relative to agree to an exhumation so that his remains could be tested. The remains were exhumed and transported to the Office of the Kentucky Chief Medical Examiner on June 17, 1991. Samples of hair, fingernail, and other tissues were removed, and radiological studies were conducted. The remains were returned to the cemetery and reinterred, with appropriate honors, in the mausoleum.\n\nNeutron activation analysis conducted at Oak Ridge National Laboratory revealed no evidence of poisoning, as arsenic levels were too low. The analysis concluded Taylor had contracted \"cholera morbus, or acute gastroenteritis\", as Washington had open sewers, and his food or drink may have been contaminated. Any potential for recovery was overwhelmed by his doctors, who treated him with \"ipecac, calomel, opium, and quinine\" at 40 grains per dose (approximately 2.6 grams), and \"bled and blistered him too.\" Political scientist Michael Parenti questions the traditional explanation for Taylor's death. Relying on interviews and reports by forensic pathologists, he argues that the procedure used to test for arsenic poisoning was fundamentally flawed. A 2010 review concludes: \"there is no definitive proof that Taylor was assassinated, nor would it appear that there is definitive proof that he was not.\"\n\n\nGeneral biographies\n\nPolitical history\n\nGenealogy\n\nFurther reading\n\n"}
