{"id": "48219196", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48219196", "title": "100 years of women in transport campaign", "text": "100 years of women in transport campaign\n\nThe 100 years of women in transport campaign (YOWIT) is a celebration of the significant role that women have played in the transport industry over the past 100 years in the United Kingdom, following the centennial anniversary of the First World War, when 100,000 women entered the transport industry to take on the responsibilities held by men who enlisted for military service.\n\nThe programme is a partnership between Transport for London, the Department for Transport (DfT), Crossrail, Network Rail, Women's Engineering Society(WES) and the Women’s Transportation Seminar (WTS).\n\nIn 2015, the campaign raised awareness to the low representation of females in this industry by commemorating the 100 years of Maida Vale tube station (the first to be fully staffed by women), and holding a debate competition between year 9 students from 30 schools across the UK with engineering and construction company, Bechtel. The winning team was composed by four girls from St Marylebone School.\n\nThe programme also profiled several women that are currently in the industry to showcase the variety of careers available within transport.\n\nIn November 2015, the campaign celebrated 100 years since the first female bus conductor, Ms G. Duncan, started to work in London on 1 November 1915.\n\n"}
{"id": "2897456", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2897456", "title": "Board of Audit (Japan)", "text": "Board of Audit (Japan)\n\nThe reviews government expenditures and submits an annual report to the Diet. Article 90 of the Constitution of Japan and the Board of Audit Act of 1947 give this body substantial independence from both cabinet and Diet control. \n\nIn 1968, it hosted the INCOSAI VI, the sixth triennial convention of the International Organization of Supreme Audit Institutions.\n\nThe headquarters is located at 3-2-2 Kasumigaseki, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 100-8941, Japan.\n\nThe origins of the Board of Audit can be traced back to a division established in 1869 under the Daijō-kan. It was reorganized as an auditing organ under the Daijō-kan in 1880.\n\nArticle 90 of the Constitution of 1947 states: \"Final accounts of the expenditures and revenues of the State shall be audited annually by a Board of Audit and submitted by the Cabinet to the Diet, together with the statement of audit, during the fiscal year immediately following the period covered.\" The original Japanese uses the word \"subete\" to indicate that all state expenditures and revenues are subject to audit. In 2013, the Abe government tried to circumvent this under the State Secrecy Law, but relented in 2015.\n"}
{"id": "2574040", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2574040", "title": "Clearview (typeface)", "text": "Clearview (typeface)\n\nClearview, also known as Clearview Hwy, is the name of a humanist sans-serif typeface family for guide signs on roads in the United States. It has also been used in Canada, Indonesia, the Philippines, Israel, and Sri Lanka. It was developed by independent researchers with the help of the Texas Transportation Institute and the Pennsylvania Transportation Institute, under the supervision of the Federal Highway Administration (FHWA). It was once expected to replace the FHWA typefaces in many applications, although newer studies of its effectiveness have called its benefits into question.\n\nInitial testing indicated that Clearview was 2 to 8 percent more legible in both day- and night-time viewing than the then-dominant Series E (Modified) on overhead signs, particularly benefiting older drivers, with a 6 percent increase in legibility distance. A design goal of Clearview was the reduction of irradiation effects of retroreflective sign materials. Reduced nighttime overglow or haloing was expected also to improve recognition rates for computer road sign detection. However, these tests also compared new signs in Clearview to existing, weathered signs in the existing Highway Gothic font. The new font's apparent legibility \"was more due to the fact that older, worn signs were being replaced with nice, fresh, clean signs which were, naturally, more legible.\" Better testing also revealed that legibility was worse for negative contrast signs (dark lettering on light backgrounds) such as on speed limit and yellow warning signs.\n\nThe standard FHWA typefaces, developed in the 1940s, were designed to work with a system of highway signs in which almost all words are capitalized; its standard mixed-case form (Series E Modified) was designed to be most visible under the now-obsolete reflector system of button copy, which has since been superseded by retroreflective sheeting.The designers of Clearview sought to create a typeface adapted for mixed-case signage, initially expecting it would be based on an existing European sans-serif typeface. Instead, using a similar weight to the FHWA fonts, a new font was created from scratch. Two key differences are much larger counter spaces, the enclosed spaces in letters like the lower case \"e\" or \"a\", and a higher x-height, the relative height of the lower case \"x\" to the upper case \"X\". Smaller counter spaces in the FHWA fonts reduced legibility, particularly when the letters glowed from headlight illumination at night. The typeface's general appearance resembles the design of the Transport typeface family, designed by Jock Kinneir and Margaret Calvert in 1957–63 for the British highway sign system.\n\nClearview was granted interim approval by the FHWA for use on positive-contrast road signs (light legend on dark background, such as white on black, green, blue, brown, purple or red) on September 2, 2004, though not on negative-contrast road signs (dark legend on light background, such as black on white, yellow or orange), given its inferior legibility to the existing FHWA typefaces in these applications. The FHWA also refused to add Clearview to the 2009 MUTCD, citing lack of testing on Clearview's numerals, symbols, and narrower typefaces. In April 2014, FHWA indicated it expected to rescind Interim Approval to use Clearview in the future, eventually doing so in January 2016. Congress ordered the FHWA to reinstate the interim approval on March 28, 2018.\n\nOutside the US, Clearview has been adopted in Canada where it has been the standard typeface for signs in British Columbia since 2006 and used for street signs in Toronto. Clearview has been adopted as the standard typeface for road signs in Indonesia since 2014. Since 2016, Ontario's MTO has started using Clearview on some signs on the QEW.\n\nIn addition to its appearance on road signage, a customized version of the ClearviewText typeface was adopted by AT&T for corporate use, including advertising, used from 2006 to 2016. ClearviewText and ClearviewADA are versions of the typeface intended for use in general graphic design and ADA-compliant signage. An example of ClearviewADA in use is signage at Dallas-Fort Worth International Airport.\n\nBetween 20 and 30 states have adopted the use of the typeface as of 2013. It was not the official font recommended for use by the FHWA and states were required to request interim approval from the Federal Highway Administration to use the font.\n\nOn January 25, 2016, the Federal Highway Administration issued a notice in the Federal Register of the agency's intent to rescind interim approval for use of the Clearview font in 30 days. FHWA discussed the current state of road signage research and concluded that \"the consistent finding\namong all the research evaluations is that the brightness of the retroreflective sheeting is the primary factor in nighttime legibility.\" Even worse, significant misunderstandings and misapplications of the interim approval for Clearview were resulting in badly designed non-uniform signs that violated the uniformity central to the Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices. Accordingly, the notice concluded, \"FHWA does not intend to pursue further consideration, development, or support of an alternative letter style.\" This rescindment drew negative response from government officials as well as one of the typeface's designers.\n\nThe FHWA reinstated the interim approval on March 28, 2018, per Section 125 of the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2018.\n\nThe Transportation Association of Canada's MUTCD for Canada allows the use of Clearview, and the Ministry of Transportation of Ontario uses it for positive contrast guide signs. Toronto has been replacing its black-on-white street signs with newer signs that use Clearview since 2004, with exceptions for certain older neighborhoods.\n\nThe Ministry of Transportation promulgated a regulation in 2014 to introduce new road signs that would use the Clearview typeface. This new regulation was intended to meet ASEAN Economic Community standards starting in 2015. Previously, road signs in Indonesia had traditionally used FHWA Series fonts since 1993.\n\nSignages in the Philippines uses Clearview on newer signs. The numbered shields from the Philippine highway network uses Clearview.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33822066", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33822066", "title": "Coalició Compromís", "text": "Coalició Compromís\n\nCoalició Compromís (; ) is a Valencianist political party, originally an electoral coalition, in the Valencian Community, Spain. The parties involved include the Valencian Nationalist Bloc, the left-wing Valencian People's Initiative, and a group of environmentalist (Greens Equo of the Valencian Country) and independent parties. Together they defend Valencianist, progressive and ecological politics.\n\nCompromís was founded in January 2010 to participate in the 2011 elections to the Valencian parliament, and the 2011 local elections.\n\nSince the 2015 election year, Compromís has significantly increased its representation in many institutions. At present it has 722 councillors all over the Valencian Autonomous Community , 19 parliamentary representatives in the Valencian parliament (\"Corts Valencianes\"), 4 representatives in the Congress of Deputies of Spain (within 9 representatives of A la valenciana coalition), 2 in the Spanish Senate and 1 in the European parliament. It also has 6 representatives in the Deputation of Valencia (\"València\"), 2 in Castellón (\"Castelló\"), 3 in Alicante (\"Alacant\") and 84 mayor's offices, among them, the city of Valencia.\n\nIn the 2011 Valencian election, Compromís received 176.213 votes (7% of the votes) and 6 of the 99 seats.\n\nIn the 2011 Spanish general election, running in coalition with Equo in the three Valencian provinces, it won 0.5% of the national vote and 1 MP in Congress (Joan Baldoví), nearing 5% of the total vote in the Valencian Country.\n\nIn the 2014 European Parliament election it won 1 seat within the European Spring () coalition with other parties (such as Chunta Aragonesista or Equo).\n\nIn the 2015 Valencian election, Compromís polled third overall after the People's Party (PP) and the Valencian Socialists (PSPV). Compromís got 456.823 votes (18.5% of the votes) and 19 of the 99 seats. The election results allowed a new government to be formed by Compromís and PSPV, with the parliamentary support of Podemos. After negotiations, Mònica Oltra from Compromís was elected as Vice president of Generalitat Valenciana and Ximo Puig from PSPV as President.\n\nFor the 2015 Spanish general election, Compromís formed a coalition with Podemos, called \"Compromís-Podem-És el moment\". This new coalition was the second most popular political force in the Valencian Country, surpassing the PSPV. They received 671.071 votes, 25,09% of the total vote in the Valencian Country. During the process of creating parliamentary groups, Podemos deputies joined the group within other Podemos deputies from all around Spain, while Compromís joined the Mixed Group.\n\nIn the 2016 general elections in Spain Compromís ran again in a coalition with Podemos, but this time the coalition included as well United Left of the Valencian Country, the Valencian branch of United Left.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2004122", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2004122", "title": "Context-based access control", "text": "Context-based access control\n\nContext-based access control (CBAC) is a feature of firewall software, which intelligently filters TCP and UDP packets based on application layer protocol session information. It can be used for intranets, extranets and internets.\n\nCBAC can be configured to permit specified TCP and UDP traffic through a firewall only when the connection is initiated from within the network needing protection. (In other words, CBAC can inspect traffic for sessions that originate from the external network.) However, while this example discusses inspecting traffic for sessions that originate from the external network, CBAC can inspect traffic for sessions that originate from either side of the firewall. This is the basic function of a stateful inspection firewall.\n\nWithout CBAC, traffic filtering is limited to access list implementations that examine packets at the network layer, or at most, the transport layer. However, CBAC examines not only network layer and transport layer information but also examines the application-layer protocol information (such as FTP connection information) to learn about the state of the TCP or UDP session. This allows support of protocols that involve multiple channels created as a result of negotiations in the FTP control channel. Most of the multimedia protocols as well as some other protocols (such as FTP, RPC, and SQL*Net) involve multiple control channels.\n\nCBAC inspects traffic that travels through the firewall to discover and manage state information for TCP and UDP sessions. This state information is used to create temporary openings in the firewall's access lists to allow return traffic and additional data connections for permissible sessions (sessions that originated from within the protected internal network).\n\nCBAC does the deep packet inspection and hence it is termed to be an IOS Firewall.\n\nCBAC also provides the following benefits:\n\n"}
{"id": "8960", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8960", "title": "Deprogramming", "text": "Deprogramming\n\nDeprogramming refers to measures that claim to assist a person who holds a controversial belief system in changing those beliefs and abandoning allegiance to the religious, political, economic, or social group associated with the belief system. The dictionary definition of deprogramming is \"to free\" or \"to retrain\" someone from specific beliefs. Some controversial methods and practices of self-identified \"deprogrammers\" have involved kidnapping, false imprisonment, and coercion, which have sometimes resulted in criminal convictions of the deprogrammers. Some deprogramming regimens are designed for individuals taken against their will, which has led to controversies over freedom of religion, kidnapping, and civil rights, as well as the violence which is sometimes involved.\n\nAs a technique, the deprogramming that has been practiced over the last half century has been typically commissioned by relatives, often parents of adult offspring, who objected to the subject's membership in an organization or group. It has been compared to exorcisms in both methodology and manifestation, and the process sometimes has been performed with tacit support of law enforcement and judicial officials. In response to a burgeoning number of new religious movements in the 1970s in the United States, the \"father of deprogramming\", Ted Patrick, introduced many of these techniques to a wider audience as a means to combat cults. Since then, deprogrammings have been carried out \"by the thousands\". For example, various atrocity stories served as justification for deprogramming of Unification Church members in the USA.\n\nAs a technique for encouraging people to disassociate with groups with whom they have as consenting adults chosen to associate, deprogramming is a controversial practice. Even some cult critics have denounced it on legal and ethical grounds. Similar actions, when done without force, have been referred to as \"exit counseling\". \nSometimes the word \"deprogramming\" is used in a wider (and/or ironic or humorous sense), to mean the freeing of someone (often oneself) from any previously uncritically assimilated idea. According to Carol Giambalvo, \"exit cousellors are usually former cult members themselves\".\n\nVarious academics have commented on the practice. For example, as defined by James T. Richardson, UNLV Professor of Sociology and Judicial Studies and Director of the Grant Sawyer Center for Justice Studies, deprogramming is a \"private, self-help process whereby participants in unpopular new religious movements (NRMs) were forcibly removed from the group, incarcerated, and put through radical resocialization processes that were supposed to result in their agreeing to leave the group.\" Law professor Douglas Laycock, author of \"Religious Liberty: The free exercise clause\", wrote:\n\nBeginning in the 1970s, many parents responded to the initial conversion with \"deprogramming.\" The essence of deprogramming was to physically abduct the convert, isolate him and physically restrain him, and barrage him with continuous arguments and attacks against his new religion, threatening to hold him forever until he agreed to leave it.\n\nLawyer John LeMoult, writing in a law review journal, described such practices as the person subject to deprogramming being \"seized, held against his will, subjected to mental, emotional, and even physical pressures until he renounces his beliefs\", and compared this power to that of Nazis over their prisoners. Legal scholar Dean M. Kelley called deprogramming \"protracted spiritual gang-rape\".\n\nThere has never been a standard procedure among deprogrammers; descriptions in anecdotal reports, studies, and interviews with former deprogrammers vary greatly. Deprogrammers generally operate on the presumption that the people they are paid to extract from religious organizations are victims of mind control (or brainwashing). Books written by deprogrammers and exit counselors say that the most essential part of freeing the mind of a person is to convince the subject that he or she had been under the mental control of others.\n\nTed Patrick, one of the pioneers of deprogramming, used a confrontational method, enlisting psychiatrists and psychologists to assist him in the deprogramming process. Patrick was tried and convicted of multiple felonies related to kidnapping and unlawful imprisonment of deprogramming subjects.\n\nSylvia Buford, an associate of Ted Patrick who has assisted him on many deprogrammings, described five stages of deprogramming:\n\nThe deprogramming accounts vary widely regarding the use of force, with the most dramatic accounts coming from deprogrammed people who returned to the group.\n\nSteven Hassan in his book \"Releasing the Bonds\" spoke against coercive deprogramming methods using force or threats.\n\nThe deprogramming case observed by Dubrow-Eichel did not include any violence.\n\nSociologist Eileen Barker wrote in Watching for Violence:\n\nIn \"Colombrito vs. Kelly\", the Court accepted the definition of deprogramming by J. Le Moult published in 1978 in the Fordham Law Review:\n\nDeprogrammer Carol Giambalvo writes in the 1998 text \"Deprogramming to Thought Reform Consultation\":\n\nAlan W. Gomes (chairman of the department of theology at Talbot School of Theology, Biola University) in his 2009 book \"Unmasking the Cults\" reports:\n\nThe Dialog Center International (DCI) a major Christian counter-cult organization founded in 1973 by a Danish professor of missiology and ecumenical theology, Dr. Johannes Aagaard rejects deprogramming, believing that it is counterproductive, ineffective, and can harm the relationship between a cult member and concerned family members.\n\nProfessor of psychiatry Saul Levine suggests that it is doubtful that deprogramming helps many people and goes on to say that it actually causes harm to the victim by very nature of the deprogramming. For deprogramming to work, the victim must be convinced that they joined a religious group against their will. They then must renounce responsibility and accept that in some mysterious way that their minds were controlled. It is Levine's professional opinion that once deprogrammed, a person would never be certain that they were really doing what they want. He states that deprogramming destroys a person's identity and is likely to create permanent anxiety about freedom of choice and leave the deprogrammed subject dependent upon the guidance and advice of others. \"Fundamentally deprogramming denies choice and creates dependency. It robs people of their sense of responsibility. Instead of encouraging people to accept that they made a mistake, it encourages people to deny their actions and blame others.\"\n\nDeprogramming activities often fall outside of the law. Government agencies have at times been aware and have taken part in deprogramming to enforce official views of \"correct\" beliefs and behaviors. This can involve \"vigorous, even violent, efforts to dissuade people from participating in groups deemed unacceptable to the government\" and have been \"given legal sanction by the passage of laws that make illegal the activities or even the beliefs\nof the unpopular movement or group being targeted\".\n\nIn the United States, from the mid-1970s and throughout the 1980s mind control was a widely accepted theory in public opinion, and the vast majority of newspaper and magazine accounts of deprogrammings assumed that recruits' relatives were well justified to seek conservatorships and to hire deprogrammers. It took nearly 20 years for public opinion to shift.\n\nOne aspect that gradually became disturbing from a civil rights point of view, was that relatives would use deception or other ethically questionable methods—even kidnapping—to get the recruit into deprogrammers' hands, without allowing the person any recourse to a lawyer or psychiatrist of their own choosing. Previously, there would be a sanity hearing first, and only then a commitment to an asylum or involuntary therapy. But with deprogramming, judges routinely granted parents legal authority over their adult children without a hearing.\n\nOne of main objections raised to deprogramming (as well as to exit counseling) is the contention that they begin with a false premise. Lawyers for some groups who have lost members due to deprogramming, as well as some civil libertarians, sociologists and psychologists, argue that it is not the religious groups but rather the deprogrammers who are the ones who deceive and manipulate people.\n\nDavid Bromley and Anson Shupe wrote:\nA number of factors contributed to the cessation of deprogramming:\n\nSome of the deprogrammed adults sued the deprogrammers or the relatives who had hired them. Also in 1987, psychologist Margaret Singer became unusable as an expert witness after the American Psychological Association (APA) rejected her \"Deceptive and Indirect Methods of Persuasion and Control\" (DIMPAC) report.\n\nThe American Civil Liberties Union published a statement in 1977 which said:\nIn the 1980s in the United States, namely in New York (Deprogramming Bill, 1981), Kansas (Deprogramming Bill, 1982), and Nebraska (conservatorship legislation for 1985), lawmakers unsuccessfully attempted to legalize involuntary deprogramming.\n\nRev. Sun Myung Moon, founder of the Unification Church (many of whose members were targets of deprogramming) issued this statement in 1983:\n\nDuring the 1990s, deprogrammer Rick Ross was sued by Jason Scott, a former member of a Pentecostal group called the Life Tabernacle Church, after an unsuccessful deprogramming attempt. In 1995, the jury awarded Scott $875,000 in compensatory damages and $2,500,000 in punitive damages against Ross, which were later settled for $5,000 and 200 hours of services. More significantly, the jury also found that the leading anti-cult group known as the Cult Awareness Network was a co-conspirator in the crime and fined CAN $1,000,000 in punitive damages, forcing the group into bankruptcy. This case is often seen as effectively closing the door on the practice of involuntary deprogramming in the United States.\n\nAnti-cult groups play a central role in maintaining the underground network of communications, referrals, transportation, and housing necessary for continued deprogramming.\n\nGroups such as the Cult Awareness Network operated a referral scheme (NARDEC) in which they would refer people to deprogrammers in return for a 'kickback' in the form of a donation or as a commission. Deprogrammers such as Rick Ross, Steven Hassan and Carol Giambalvo were amongst the CAN referred deprogrammers.\n\nIn 1974, Kathy Crampton, whose abduction and deprogramming were televised across the US, went back to the Love Family group several days after her apparently successful deprogramming. Patrick was charged with kidnapping, but acquitted with the reasoning: \"[w]here parents are, as here, of the reasonable and intelligent belief that they were not physically capable of recapturing their daughter from existing, imminent danger, then the defense of necessity transfers or transposes to the constituted agent, the person who acts upon their belief under such conditions. Here that agent is the Defendant Ted Patrick.\" \"(District Court of the United States 1974: 79; New York Times 1974).\"\n\nIn 1980, Susan Wirth, a 35-year-old teacher living in San Francisco, was abducted by her parents to be deprogrammed in reaction to her leftist political views and activities. Patrick was paid $27,000 to carry out the deprogramming, which involved handcuffing her to a bed for two weeks and denying her food. She was later released and after returning to San Francisco spoke out against deprogramming but declined to press legal charges against her parents.\n\nIn 1980, Patrick was convicted of conspiracy, kidnapping, and false imprisonment for abducting and attempting to deprogram Roberta McElfish, a 26-year-old Tucson waitress. Patrick was sentenced to one year in prison and fined $5,000.\n\nIn 1981, Stephanie Riethmiller, who lived in Ohio, was kidnapped by deprogrammers hired by her parents to end her lesbian relationship. She was held against her will and repeatedly raped. After her release she filed civil charges against her parents and the deprogrammers, which were dismissed in a trial that generated some controversy in the media.\n\nIn 1990, Patrick attempted to deprogram Elma Miller, an Amish woman who had joined a liberal sect. He was hired by her husband to return her to him and the Amish church. Criminal charges of conspiracy were filed against Miller's husband, brother, and two others but were later dropped on her request to the prosecuting attorney.\n\nDuring the 1990s, Rick Ross, a noted cult intervention advocate who took part in a number of deprogramming sessions, was sued by Jason Scott, a former member of a Pentecostalist group called the Life Tabernacle Church (part of United Pentecostal Church International), after an unsuccessful coercive deprogramming. The jury awarded Scott $875,000 in compensatory damages and $1,000,000 in punitive damages against the Cult Awareness Network (CAN), and $2,500,000 against Ross (later settled for $5,000 and 200 hours of services \"as an expert consultant and intervention specialist\").\n\nDeprogramming and exit counseling, sometimes seen as one and the same, are distinct approaches to convincing a person to leave a cult.\n\nProponents of the distinction, however, state that deprogramming entails coercion and confinement, while exit counseling assures the subject of the freedom to leave at any time. Deprogramming typically costs $10,000 or more, mainly because of the expense of a security team. Exit counseling typically costs $2,000 to $4,000, including expenses, for a three- to five-day intervention, although cases requiring extensive research of little-known groups can cost much more (estimated in 1993). Deprogramming, especially when it fails, entails considerable legal and psychological risk (for example, a permanent alienation of the subject from his or her family). The psychological and legal risks in exit counseling are significantly reduced. Although deprogrammers do prepare families for the process, exit counselors tend to work with them directly, expecting those requesting the intervention to contribute more to the process; that is, exit counseling requires that families establish a reasonable and respectful level of communication with their loved one before the program itself can begin. Because deprogramming relies on coercion, which is illegal except in the case of conservatorship and is generally viewed as unethical, deprogrammers' critiques of the unethical practices of cults tend to be less credibility to the subject than the arguments of exit counselors.\n\nSteven Hassan, author of the book \"Combatting Cult Mind Control\", states that he took part in a number of deprogrammings in the late 1970s, and has spoken out against them since 1980. Hassan states that he has not participated in any deprogrammings since then, although on page 114 of \"Combatting\", Hassan states that deprogrammings should be kept as a last resort if all other attempts fail to transform the individual. Hassan is one of the major proponents of exit counseling as a form of intercession, and he refers to his method as \"strategic intervention therapy\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "196649", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=196649", "title": "E-government", "text": "E-government\n\nE-government (short for electronic government) is the use of electronic communications devices, computers and the Internet to provide public services to citizens and other persons in a country or region. According to Jeong, 2007 the term consists of the digital interactions between a citizen and their government (C2G), between governments and other government agencies (G2G), between government and citizens (G2C), between government and employees (G2E), and between government and businesses/commerces (G2B). E-government delivery models can be broken down into the following categories: This interaction consists of citizens communicating with all levels of government (city, state/province, national, and international), facilitating citizen involvement in governance using information and communication technology (ICT) (such as computers and websites) and business process re-engineering (BPR). Brabham and Guth (2017) interviewed the third party designers of e-government tools in North America about the ideals of user interaction that they build into their technologies, which include progressive values, ubiquitous participation, geolocation, and education of the public.\n\nOther definitions are more away from technology as an object, to see them simply as facilitators or instruments and focus on specific changes in Public Administration issues, and in the internal transformation of a Government, is the case of the definition that established the specialist technologist Mauro D. Ríos in the paper \"In search of a definition of Electronic Government\", he says: \"Digital Government is a new way of organization and management of public affairs, introducing positive transformational processes in management and the structure itself of the organization chart, adding value to the procedures and services provided, all through the introduction and continued appropriation of information and communication technologies as a facilitator of these transformations.\"\nE-government is also known as e-gov, electronic government, Internet governance, digital government, online government, connected government. As of 2014 the OECD still uses the term digital government, and distinguishes it from e-government in the recommendation produced there for the Network on E-Government of the Public Governance Committee. Several governments have started to use the term digital government to a wide range of services involving contemporary technology, such as big data, automation or predictive analytics.\n\n\"E-gov strategies\" (or \"digital government\") is defined as \"The employment of the Internet and the world-wide-web for delivering government information and services to the citizens.\" (United Nations, 2006; AOEMA, 2005). \"Electronic government\" (or \"e-government\") essentially refers to \"utilization of Information Technology (IT), Information and Communication Technologies (ICT s), and other web-based telecommunication technologies to improve and/or enhance on the efficiency and effectiveness of service delivery in the public sector.\". E-government promotes and improves broad stakeholders contribution to national and community development, as well as deepen the governance process.\n\nIn electronic government systems, government operations are supported by web-based services. It involves the use of information technology, specifically the Internet, to facilitate the communication between the government and its citizens.\n\nThe Division of a Public Administration and Development Management (DPAPM) of the United Nations Department of Economic and Social Affairs (UN-DESA) conducts a bi-annual e-government survey which includes a section titled \"e-Government Development Index (EGDI)\". It is a comparative ranking of 193 countries of the world according to three primary indicators: i) the OSI - Online Service Index that measures the online presence of the government in terms of service delivery; ii) the TII - Telecommunication Infrastructure Index iii) HCI -Human Capital Index . Constructing a model for the measurement of digitized services, the Survey assesses the 193 member states of the UN according to a quantitative composite index of e-government readiness based on website assessment; telecommunication infrastructure and human resource endowment.\n\nA diverse group of 100 researchers online volunteers from across the globe engaged with the United Nations Department of Economic Affairs (UN DESA) to process 386 research surveys carried out across 193 UN Member States for the 2016 UN E-Government Survey. The diversity of nationalities and languages of the online volunteers—more than 65 languages, 15 nationalities, of which half are from developing countries—mirrors perfectly the mission of the survey.\n\nE-government should enable anyone visiting a city website to communicate and interact with city employees via the Internet with graphical user interfaces (GUI), instant-messaging (IM), learn about government issues through audio/video presentations, and in any way more sophisticated than a simple email letter to the address provided at the site”\n\nThe essence of e-governance is \"The enhanced value for stakeholders through transformation\" and “the use of technology to enhance the access to and delivery of government services to benefit citizens, business partners and employees”. The focus should be on:\nWhilst e-government has traditionally been understood as being centered around the operations of government, e-governance is understood to extend the scope by including citizen engagement and participation in governance. As such, following in line with the OECD definition of e-government, e-governance can be defined as the use of ICTs as a tool to achieve better governance.\n\nThe primary delivery models of e-government can be divided into:\n\nWithin each of these interaction domains, four kinds of activities take place:\n\nWhile e-government is often thought of as \"online government\" or \"Internet-based government,\" many non-Internet \"electronic government\" technologies can be used in this context. Some non-Internet forms include telephone, fax, PDA, SMS text messaging, MMS, wireless networks and services, Bluetooth, CCTV, tracking systems, RFID, biometric identification, road traffic management and regulatory enforcement, identity cards, smart cards and other near field communication applications; polling station technology (where non-online e-voting is being considered), TV and radio-based delivery of government services (e.g., CSMW), email, online community facilities, newsgroups and electronic mailing lists, online chat, and instant messaging technologies.\n\nThe main disadvantages concerning e-government is the lack of equality in public access to computers and the internet (the \"digital divide\", a reference to the fact that people who have low incomes, who are homeless and/or who live in remote regions may have little or no access to the Internet), reliability of information on the web, and issues that could influence and bias public opinions. There are many considerations and potential implications of implementing and designing e-government, including disintermediation of the government and its citizens, impacts on economic, social, and political factors, vulnerability to cyber attacks, and disturbances to the \"status quo\" in these areas. See also Electronic leviathan.\n\nThe political nature of public sector forms are also cited as disadvantages to e-government systems.\n\nTrust in e-governance is very highly dependent on its performance and execution, which can be measured through the effectiveness of current actions. This is much riskier and prone to fluctuation than a system of trust that is based on reputation because performance does not consider past actions.\n\nBecause E-government is in the early stages of development in many countries and jurisdictions, it is hard to be applied to forms of government that have been institutionalized. Age-old bureaucratic practices being delivered in new mediums or using new technologies can lead to problems of miscommunication\n\nIncreased electronic contact and data exchange between government and its citizens goes both ways. Once e-government technologies become more sophisticated, citizens will be likely be encouraged to interact electronically with the government for more transactions, as e-services are much less costly than bricks and mortar service offices (physical buildings) staffed by civil servants. This could potentially lead to a decrease in privacy for civilians as the government obtains more and more information about their activities. Without safeguards, government agencies might share information on citizens. In a worst-case scenario, with so much information being passed electronically between government and civilians, a totalitarian-like system could develop. When the government has easy access to countless information on its citizens, personal privacy is lost.\n\nAlthough \"a prodigious amount of money has been spent\" on the development and implementation of e-government, some say it has yielded only a mediocre result. The outcomes and effects of trial Internet-based government services are often difficult to gauge or users seem them unsatisfactory.\nAccording to Gartner, Worldwide IT spending is estimated to total $3.6 trillion in 2011 which is 5.1% increase from the year 2010 ($3.4 trillion).\n\nAn e-government website that provides government services often does not offer the \"potential to reach many users including those who live in remote areas [without Internet access], are homebound, have low literacy levels, exist on poverty line incomes.\" Homeless people, people in poverty and elderly people may not have access.\n\nOpponents of e-government argue that online governmental transparency is dubious because it is maintained by the governments themselves. Information can be added or removed from the public eye. To this day, very few organizations monitor and provide accountability for these modifications. Those that do so, like the United States’ OMBWatch and Government Accountability Project, are often nonprofit volunteers. Even the governments themselves do not always keep track of the information they insert and delete.\n\nThe ultimate goal of the e-government is to be able to offer an increased portfolio of public services to citizens in an efficient and cost effective manner. E-government allows for government transparency. Government transparency is important because it allows the public to be informed about what the government is working on as well as the policies they are trying to implement.\nSimple tasks may be easier to perform through electronic government access. Many changes, such as marital status or address changes can be a long process and take a lot of paper work for citizens. E-government allows these tasks to be performed efficiently with more convenience to individuals.\nE-government is an easy way for the public to be more involved in political campaigns. It could increase voter awareness, which could lead to an increase in citizen participation in elections.\nIt is convenient and cost-effective for businesses, and the public benefits by getting easy access to the most current information available without having to spend time, energy and money to get it.\n\nE-government helps simplify processes and makes government information more easily accessible for public sector agencies and citizens. For example, the Indiana Bureau of Motor Vehicles simplified the process of certifying driver records to be admitted in county court proceedings. Indiana became the first state to allow government records to be digitally signed, legally certified and delivered electronically by using Electronic Postmark technology. In addition to its simplicity, e-democracy services can reduce costs. Alabama Department of Conservation & Natural Resources, Wal-Mart and NIC developed an online hunting and fishing license service utilizing an existing computer to automate the licensing process. More than 140,000 licenses were purchased at Wal-Mart stores during the first hunting season and the agency estimates it will save $200,000 annually from service.\n\nThe anticipated benefits of e-government include efficiency, improved services, better accessibility of public services, sustainable community development and more transparency and accountability.\n\nOne goal of some e-government initiatives is greater citizen participation. Through the Internet's Web 2.0 interactive features, people from all over the country can provide input to politicians or public servants and make their voices heard. Blogging and interactive surveys allow politicians or public servants to see the views of the people on any issue. Chat rooms can place citizens in real-time contact with elected officials or their office staff or provide them with the means to interact directly with public servants, allowing voters to have a direct impact and influence in their government. These technologies can create a more transparent government, allowing voters to immediately see how and why their representatives in the capital are voting the way they are. This helps voters decide whom to vote for in the future or how to help the public servants become more productive.\n\nA government could theoretically move more towards a true democracy with the proper application of e-government. Government transparency will give insight to the public on how decisions are made and hold elected officials or public servants accountable for their actions. The public could become a direct and prominent influence in government legislature to some degree.\n\nProponents of e-government argue that online government services would lessen the need for hard copy paper forms. Due to recent pressures from environmentalist groups, the media, and the public, some governments and organizations have turned to the Internet to reduce paper use. The United States government utilizes the website http://www.forms.gov to provide “internal government forms for federal employees” and thus “produce significant savings in paper. As well, if citizens can apply for government services or permits online, they may not need to drive into a government office, which could lead to less air pollution from gas and diesel-fuelled vehicles.\n\nE-government allows citizens to interact with computers to achieve objectives at any time and any location and eliminates the necessity for physical travel to government agents sitting behind desks and windows. Many e-government services are available to citizens with computers and Internet access 24 hours a day and seven days a week, in contrast to bricks and mortar government offices, which tend to be only open during business hours (notable exceptions are police stations and hospitals, which are usually open 24 hours a day so that staff can deal with emergencies).\n\nImproved accounting and record keeping can be noted through computerization, and information and forms can be easily accessed by citizens with computers and Internet access, which may enable quicker processing time for applications and find information. On the administrative side, access to help find or retrieve files and linked information can now be stored in electronic databases versus hard copies (paper copies) stored in various locations. Individuals with disabilities or conditions that affect their mobility no longer have to be mobile to be active in government and can access public services in the comfort of their own homes (as long as they have a computer and Internet and any accessibility equipment they may need).\n\nRecent trials of e-government have been met with acceptance and eagerness from the public. Citizens participate in online discussions of political issues with increasing frequency, and young people, who traditionally display minimal interest in government affairs, are drawn to electronic voting procedures.\n\nAlthough Internet-based governmental programs have been criticized for lack of reliable privacy policies, studies have shown that people value prosecution of offenders over personal confidentiality. Ninety percent of United States adults approve of Internet tracking systems of criminals, and 57% are willing to forgo some of their personal internet privacy if it leads to the prosecution of criminals or terrorists.\n\nThere are also some technology-specific sub-categories of e-government, such as m-government (mobile government), ubiquitous government), and g-government (GIS/GPS applications for e-government).\n\nThe previous concern about developments in E-government concerning technology are due to the limited use of online platforms for political reasons by citizens in local political participations.\n\nThe primary delivery models of e-government are classified depending on who benefits. In the development of public sector or private sector portals and platforms, a system is created that benefits all constituents. Citizens needing to renew their vehicle registration have a convenient way to accomplish it while already engaged in meeting the regulatory inspection requirement. On behalf of a government partner, the business provides what has traditionally, and solely, managed by government and can use this service to generate profit or attract new customers. Government agencies are relieved of the cost and complexity of having to process the transactions.\n\nTo develop these public sector portals or platforms, governments have the choice to internally develop and manage, outsource, or sign a self-funding contract. The self-funding model creates portals that pay for themselves through convenience fees for certain e-government transactions, known as self-funding portals.\n\nSocial networking services and websites are an emerging area for e-democracy. The social networking entry point is within the citizens’ environment and the engagement is on the citizens’ terms. Proponents of e-government perceive government use of social networking as a medium to help government act more like the public it serves. Examples can be found at almost every state government portal through Facebook, Twitter, and YouTube widgets.\n\nGovernment and its agents also have the opportunity to follow citizens to monitor satisfaction with services they receive. Through ListServs, RSS feeds, mobile messaging, micro-blogging services and blogs, government and its agencies can share information to citizens who share common interests and concerns. Government is also beginning to Twitter. In the state of Rhode Island, Treasurer Frank T. Caprio is offering daily tweets of the state’s cash flow. For a full list of state agencies with Twitter feeds, visit NIC. For more information, visit transparent-gov.com.\n\nGovernment 2.0 or Gov 2.0 refers to government policies that aim to harness collaborative technologies and interactive Internet tools to create an open-source computing platform in which government, citizens, and innovative companies can improve transparency and efficiency. Put simply, Gov 2.0 is about \"putting government in the hands of citizens\". Gov 2.0 combines interactive Web 2.0 fundamentals with e-government and increases citizen participation by using open-source platforms, which allow development of innovative apps, websites, and widgets. The government’s role is to provide open data, web services, and platforms as an infrastructure.\n\nFollowing the transition from the longstanding Kenya African National Union government to the National Rainbow Coalition government in December 2002, in January 2004 a Directorate of e-government was established after an executive (cabinet) session. The newly created department had the duty to draw the plan of action for future ICT implementations.\n\nLike many other African nations, Kenya has embraced the high mobile penetration rate within its population. Even people living in remote areas that did not have access to traditional telecommunications' networks can now communicate with ease. The fact of the same has, and continues to have, a great impact on the governments' strategies in reaching out to its citizens.\nGiven that about 70% of the population owns mobile phones, leading mobile network operators like Safaricom have taken a great step in offering services that meet citizens' demands. Such services include Kipokezi (which allows subscribers to do online chatting and also exchange electronic mails via standard mobile phones), and M-Pesa (which allows the subscribers to send and receive electronic cash). Such services have even appealed to the majority of Kenyans, as they support the branchless members of the society too, in undertaking normal and secure businesses via M-Pesa. The recent IMF report reveals that MPESA transactions in Kenya exceeded those carried out by the Western Union worldwide.\n\nWebsite: Open Kenya | Transparent Africa\n\nThe eGovernment web portal has been developed to provide more convenient access to various government service and information through one window. Services can now be delivered to people at their own convenience, and more importantly now have a lot more weight on transparency and accountability of public services.\n\nThe E-Governance initiatives and programs in India are undertaken by the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MeitY www.meity.gov.in ).\nThe current umbrella program for e-governance of Government of India is known by the title \"DIGITAL INDIA\" (www.digitalindia.gov.in)\n\nIndian government has launched many e-governance initiatives, including a portal for public grievance,<ref name=\"http://pgportal.gov.in/\"></ref> MCA21 Mission Mode Project,<ref name=\"http://www.mca.gov.in/MCA21/\"></ref> e-Filing of income tax,<ref name=\"https://incometaxindiaefiling.gov.in/\"></ref> e-gazette,<ref name=\"http://www.egazette.nic.in/\"></ref> & digital India policy.<ref name=\"http://deity.gov.in/sites/upload_files/dit/files/Digital%20India.pdf\"></ref>\n\nE-government in Indonesia is developing, especially in central and regional/local government offices. E-government was officially introduced to public administration by Presidential Directive No 6/2001 on Telematics, which states that the government of Indonesia has to use telematics technology to support good governance. Furthermore, e-government should have been introduced for different purposes in government offices. As one of ISO member countries, Indonesia gives more attention to facilitate the activities of standardization. Among of the facilities provided are building the National information system of standardization (SISTANAS) and Indonesia Standardization Information Network (INSTANET). As of 2017, ministries, institutions and local governments of Indonesia used to run separate e-government systems, which is now integrated into a central based system. In 2017, the government has also undertaken programs for digitization of SMEs and the informal sector. Many of the cities across Indonesia including Jakarta, Bandung, Surabaya,and Makassar are implementing the concept of Smart City, consisting of e-government, e-health, e-education, e-logistics and e-procurement as priority areas.\n\nIn 2002, Iran published a detailed report named TAKFA (Barnameye Tose-e va Karborde Fanavaie Etela’at) in which it was predicted that most of the government bodies would try to virtualize their services as soon as possible. However, based on the reports by UN bodies, Iran has failed in the recent years to meet the average standards of e-government. In 2008, the Supreme Council of Information released a report which criticized the government for its poor advancement in employing new communication technologies for administration purposes.\n\nIn 2016, Iran launched the National Information Network and improved the quality and speed of internet access. In 2017 Iran introduced phase one of e-government including E-Tax, E-Customs, E-Visa, E-Government Portal, and a mobile application to modernize Iran's government services.\n\nThe Iranian government plans to introduce other phases of E-gov in the near future.\n\nIn Malaysia, the e-government efforts are undertaken by the Malaysian government, under the umbrella of Multimedia Super Corridor (MSC) and e-government flagships, which was launched in mid-1996, by Dr Mahathir Mohamad (1981-2003), by the then Prime Minister of Malaysia (Jeong & Nor Fadzlina, 2007).\n\nElectronic government is an initiative aimed at reinventing how the government works. It seeks to improve both how the government operates, as well as how it deliver services to the people (Ibrahim Ariff & Goh Chen Chuan, 2000).\n\nThe Yangon City Development Committee (Burmese- ရန်ကုန်မြို့တော်စည်ပင်သာယာရေးကော်မတီ) (YCDC) is the administrative body of Yangon, and Yangon is the largest city and former capital of Myanmar (Burma). The Yangon City Development Committee consists of 20 departments. Its headquarters was on the Yangon City Hall. The committee's chairman is also the city's mayor.\n\nIn 2003, YCDC was organized to provide e-Government for Yangon City. The main purposes of the city's e-Government program are to provide easy access between the government and the city's citizens via the Internet, to reduce paper usage, to reduce the city budget, to build the city's fiber ring, to provide timely public information, to store public data and to develop and expand G2G, G2C, G2B, and G2E programs.\n\nIn January 2013 responsibility for e-Government was divided between the e-Government Administration Committee and the e-Government Processing Committee. The e-Government Administration Committee includes the Mayor of Yangon City as Chief, the General Secretary of Yangon City as Sub-Chief, and the other 20 head of department officers as chairmen. The e-Government Processing Committee includes the Head of Public Relation and Information Department as Chief and the other 20 deputy head of department officers as chairmen.\n\nThe official web-portal is www.ycdc.gov.mm.\n\nMandalay is the second largest city and the last royal capital of Myanmar (Burma).\nIn 2014, Mandalay Region Government developed www.mdyregion.gov.mm to know about regional government and their activities to people.\n\nMandalay Region Government organized e-Government Steering Committee in 23 June 2016.\nThat committee chairman was U Sai Kyaw Zaw, Minister, Ministry of Ethnic Affairs.\n\nAt 21st, July 2017 www.emandalay.gov.mm web portal was opened by Dr. Zaw Myint Maung, Prime Minister of Mandalay Region Government.\nThat portal include 2 e-services, 199 topics from 70 agencies.\nCommittee develop a Regional Data Center too. That Data center will be opened in 2018.\n\nThe e-Government planning and conceptual framework has been presented to Nepal in an extensive support from the Government of Korea (KIPA). E-government Vision is ‘The Value Networking Nepal’ through:\nNepal’s E-government mission statement is \"Improve the quality of people’s lives without any discrimination, transcending regional and racial differences, and realize socio-economic development by building a transparent government and providing value added quality services through ICT.\"\n\nThe e-Government practice has been slow both in adoption and practice in Nepal. However, local government bodies now have dedicated team of ICT Volunteers working towards implementing e-Government in the country through an extensive ICT for Local Bodies initiatives.\n\nIn 2014, the Government of Pakistan created the National Information Technology Board (NITB) under the Ministry of Information Technology & Telecom to enable a digital eco-system for Government services to the citizens of Pakistan. NITB was formed as a result of a merger between Pakistan Computer Bureau (PCB) and Electronic Government Directorate (EGD). \n\nThe key functions identified by the NITB are:\n\nNITB rolled out an e-Office Suite across various ministries in the Government of Pakistan. While it clearly pursued efficiency gains and improved transparency, it also hoped to deliver \"efficient and cost-effective public services to citizens of Pakistan.\" The suite primarily included five modules or applications across all the ministries. Description of each module listed are: \nNITB released a high-level diagram that describes the process of transforming Federal Government agencies and ministries to e-Office environments.\n\nCriticism: NITB's roll out of the e-Office suite across almost all federal agencies is not only overly ambitious but also likely to fail. It seems to put together a lot of lofty organizational efficiency goals with a set of delivery or citizen-facing targets. In fact, most of the services NITB has provided have been largely conceptual and not sufficient concrete. The process outlines in the adoption process diagram seems devoid of any user-centric design or value proposition formulation. Instead of creating lots of MVPs (Minimum Viable Products) and taking advantage of an iterative and validated learning the process, the e-Office Suite seems to incorporate all the features and functions that various ministries and divisions may need or use. It seems to focus more on the needs of the bureaucrats and government agencies rather than the needs of the end user (citizens of Pakistan) and what services would they need that a ministry or division can provide.\n\nSri Lanka have taken some initiative actions to provide the benefits of e-government to the citizens.\n\nTo implement the principles of e-government, the Ministry of Information and Telecommunication Technologies of Thailand developed a plan for creating a modern e-services system during 2009-2014.\n\nThe next stage was the five-year project of digital government, which began in 2016 and will be completed in 2021. This project assumes that within five years, more than 80% of Thai government agencies will use electronic documents for identification.\n\nThere is the Unified State Portal of e-Government of Thailand, developed by the Ministry of Information and Telecommunications Technology in 2008.\n\nIn 2018, Thailand ranks 73rd in the UN e-government ranking. \nJordan has established its e-government program since 2002. many governmental services are provisioned online.\n\nThe e-Government was also established in Saudi Arabia, and it offers online government services and transactions.\n\nIn the United Arab Emirates, the Emirates eGovernment is designed for e-government operations.\n\ne-government shows significant advancement in Europe.\n\nArmenian e-government was established in 2004. E-government brings together all tools and databases created by Armenian state agencies and provides a user-friendly online environment for users. It includes more than twenty services and tools. Under this initiative, “Interactive Budget” and “State Non-Commercial Organisations' Financing” sections are available for the first time. There are also twenty other tools, including search engines, allowing to find the Government's and the Prime Minister's decisions, the agenda of the next cabinet sitting, information on the state purchases, the electronic tax reporting system, the online application system of the Intellectual Property Agency, the information search system of the Intellectual Property Agency, as well as the Electronic Signature and Electronic Visa (e-visa) sections. It is worth mentioning that the Electronic Signature is used in several other services when a user wants to submit an application or receive information. The Electronic Signature is universal system and is used both by the state officials and by citizens, legal entities.\n\nThis system allows companies to submit an application for obtaining or terminating licenses regarding various activities (pharmaceuticals, banking, construction, transport etc.) It also provides other services in respect of already obtained license.\n\nThe Report Acceptance System for licensed persons enables to submit any report (annually, monthly or quarterly) on licensed activities.\n\nElectronic Payment System effectively processes online payments. This application is designed specifically for charging the state fees, local fees, the administrative penalties or services provided by state and local governmental bodies. Payments can be made by Visa, Mastercard, Paypal and local Arca or Mobidram systems.\n\nThe system enables to submit application to the property cadastre and receive information on land owners, surface of a plot of land, legal status of any property. State electronic payment system is integrated within this tool. Online applications for registration of rights and restrictions and related documents may be submitted by users who have a digital signature.\n\nIn 2016 the Ministry of Justice of Armenia developed Legal Drafts' Database. It is designed particularly for publication any draft initiated by the Government or Member of Parliaments. Database can be accessed through website which provides the possibility of presenting the legal acts’ drafts to the public, organizing online discussions, and as a consequence - the active participation of representatives of civil society in law-making process. The website enables to search legal drafts, follow their further progress, and become familiar with the presented suggestions. The registered users are able to present suggestions, get informed with the \"summary paper\" of the suggestions to the draft, the adopted suggestions or the reasoning concerning the not adopted ones.\n\nThe system enables registration of legal entities, such as limited liability companies, joint-stock companies, foundations and self-employed entrepreneurs. On average it takes twenty minutes to register a company depending the entity's type. State fee can be paid through E-Payments system. The system also allows users to track the submitted applications and search existing companies as well as purchase full information about any company, including information about shareholders.\n\nThis system allows users to find cases, search for laws of Armenia, as well as to follow the schedule of court hearings.\n\nThe system is designed for public announcements.The state authorities are obliged to make public announcements under certain circumstances stipulated by law.\n\nThis tool simplifies tax declaration process for both tax payers and tax authorities. Any natural person or legal entity can submit tax declaration verifying it by electronic signature.\n\nOnline submission of patent and trademark applications using electronic signature.\n\nThis application enables the process of obtaining visa through electronic application. Visas are issued within two days.\n\nThe system allows users to verify identity of the user and protect submitted application. Any resident of Armenia, either natural person or legal entity, can obtain electronic signature and use it while submitting application through E-Government systems.\n\nEstonia has established its e-government program with the support of the European Union since 1996 with the introduction of e-Banking. In 2017, Estonia described its digital inclusiveness under the name of e-government with a wide array of e-services in government affairs, political participation, education, justice, health, accommodation, police, taxes, and business.\n\nEstonia conducts legally binding i-Voting at national and local elections and offers e-Residency to foreigners.\n\nEstonia shares its knowledge base of developing e-society and consults various states in all continents via e-Governance Academy () and has trained over 3,500+ officials from more than 60 countries and led or participated in more than 60 international ICT projects on the national, local and organizational levels.\n\nEstonia is widely recognized as e-Estonia, as a reference to its tech-savvy government and society. e-Estonia is recognized as the leader in implementing blockchain technology into its e-government infrastructure.\n\nThe “E-Government” framework was established in accordance with the “National Strategy on Information-Communication Technologies in the Development of the Republic of Azerbaijan (2003-2012)” and implemented in the framework of the “E-Azerbaijan” Program. The project is aimed to increase the convenience and efficiency of the activity of state agencies, simplify interactions between population, businesses and government agencies, contribute to creating new citizen-official relations framework and ensure transparency and free flow of information.\n\nThe main components of the e-government infrastructure are integrated network infrastructure for state bodies, E-government portal, E-government gateway, State register of information resources and systems, e-signature, e-document circulation and e-government data center (under preparation).\n\nState portal www.e-gov.az was established to facilitate citizens in benefiting from e-services provided by government agencies on a ‘single window’ principle with the combination of services. Through e-government portal citizens can use more than 140 e-services of 27 state agencies. In addition, a gateway between government agencies was established in order to ensure mutual exchange of information, and most of state agencies are connected to this infrastructure. The gateway allows users to efficiently use the existing government information systems and a safe contact between them, issuing requests and rendering e-services, liberates citizens from providing same information or documents which are already available in information databases.\n\nThe e-government portal egov.kz was launched in 2012 as part of Kazakhstan's effort to modernize how citizens access government services and information. The egov.kz mobile app was recognized as best app in the GovTechioneers competition at the 2017 World Government Summit in Dubai.\n\nOn the Federal Law \"On providing state and municipal services\" (2010), the strategy on development of Information Society in the Russian Federation, approved by the President (2008), the Federal target programme \"Electronic Russia\" (2002 – 2010 years), approved by the Government (2002), the State Programme \"Information Society\" (2010), the Procedure on development and approval of administrative regulations execution of public functions (public services), approved by the Government (2005), the concept of administrative reform in the Russian Federation in 2006 - 2010 respectively, approved by the Government (2005), on other orders, resolutions and acts in the Russian Federation was created electronic government (or e-government).\n\nThe main target on creating of e-government lies in the field of providing the equal opportunities for all the Russians in spite of their living place and their incomes and make more effective system of public administration. So e-government are created for reaching the useful system of public management accommodating the individual interests of every citizen by participation through ICTs in public policy-making.\n\nNowadays Russian e-government includes such systems as:\n\n1. The United interagency Interacting system using for providing of state and municipal services, exchange of information and data between participants of interagency interacting, quick approval of state and municipal decisions, etc.\n\n2. The United system for authentication and authorization providing evidence of the rights of all participants of e-government.\n\n3. United portal of state and municipal services and functions which are the \"single window\" for all information and services assured by government and municipals.\n\nThe portal of public services is one of the key elements of the project to create \"electronic government\" in the country. The portal provides a single point of access to all references on state and municipal services through the Internet and provides citizens and organizations the opportunity to receive these services electronically. Monthly visits by users of the public services portal range between 200,000 and 700,000. For example, citizens are now able to get or exchange a driver license through this portal.\n\n4. Head system providing utilization of electronic signature.\n\nOther systems located on cloud services.\n\nToday Russian e-government elements are demanded in the spheres of e-governance, e-services (e-health, e-education, e-library, etc.), e-commerce, e-democracy (web-election, Russian public initiative).\nBy the United Nations E-Government Survey 2012: E-Government for the People Russia became one of the 7 emerging leaders in e-government development, took 9th place in rating of e-government development in largest population countries, took 8th rank in Top e-participation leaders, after Norway, Sweden and Chile, Advancing 32 positions in the world rankings, the Russian Federation became the leader of e-government in Eastern Europe. Evolution of ICT in the Russian Federation provided the raising of Russia in e-government development index to the 27 place.\n\nThe main coordinating government body in matters of e-government is , which was established on June 4, 2014. \n\nThe beginning of the state policy of the development of the information society was the adoption in 1998-2006 of the Laws of Ukraine \"On electronic documents and electronic document circulation\", \"On the national program of informatization\", \"On the electronic digital signature\" and a number of state acts related to informatization. Later, the Law of Ukraine “On the Basic Principles of the Information Society in Ukraine for 2007-2015”, “On Information Protection in Information and Telecommunication Systems” and a number of other legislative acts aimed at concretization and specification of these laws were adopted. This law emphasized the use of information and telecommunication technologies to improve public administration, relations between the state and citizens. The next stage of e-government development began in 2015 after the adoption of the Agreement of parliamentary factions of the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine (in 2014) and the adoption of the Development Strategy \"Ukraine - 2020\", which was approved by Decree of the President of Ukraine dated January 12, 2015 (No. 5/2015).\n\nIn 2018, Ukraine ranks 82nd in the UN e-government ranking. \n\nThe current Clerk of the Privy Council – the head of the federal public service has made workplace renewal a pillar of overall public service renewal. The key to workplace renewal is the adoption of collaborative networked tools. An example of such a tool is GCPEDIA – a wiki platform for federal public servants. Other tools include GCconnex, a social networking tool, and GCforums, a discussion board system.\n\nThe election of Barack Obama as President of the United States became associated with the effective use of Internet technologies during his campaign and in the implementation of his new administration in 2009.\nOn January 21, 2009, the President signed one of his first memorandums – the Memorandum for the Heads of Executive Departments and Agencies on Transparency and Open Government. The memo called for an unprecedented level of openness in Government, asking agencies to \"ensure the public trust and establish a system of transparency, public participation, and collaboration.\" The memo further \"directs the Chief Technology Officer, in coordination with the Director of the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) and the Administrator of General Services (GSA), to coordinate the development by appropriate executive departments and agencies [and] to take specific actions implementing the principles set forth in the memorandum.\"\n\nPresident Obama’s memorandum centered around the idea of increasing transparency throughout various different federal departments and agencies. By enabling public websites like recovery.gov and data.gov to distribute more information to the American population, the administration believes that it will gain greater citizen participation.\n\nIn 2009 the U.S. federal government launched Data.gov in order to make more government data available to the public. With data from Data.Gov, the public can build apps, websites, and mashups. Although \"Gov 2.0\", as a concept and as a term, had been in existence since the mid-2000s, it was the launch of Data.gov that made it \"go viral\".\n\nIn August 2009 the City of San Francisco launched DataSF.org with more than a hundred datasets. Just weeks after the DataSF.org launch, new apps and websites were developed. Using data feeds available on DataSF.org, civic-minded developers built programs to display public transportation arrival and departure times, where to recycle hazardous materials, and crime patterns. Since the launch of DataSF.org there have been more than seventy apps created with San Francisco's data.\n\nIn March 2009, former San Francisco Mayor Gavin Newsom was at Twitter headquarters for a conversation about technology in government. During the town hall, Newsom received a tweet about a pothole. He turned to Twitter co-founders Biz Stone and Evan Williams and said let's find a way for people to tweet their service requests directly to San Francisco's 311 customer service center. Three months later, San Francisco launched the first Twitter 311 service, called @SF311, allowing residents to tweet, text, and send photos of potholes and other requests directly to the city. Working with Twitter and using the open-source platform, CoTweet turned @SF311 into reality. The software procurement process for something like this would normally have taken months, but in this case, it took less than three months. The @SF311 is saving the city money in call center costs.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17825814", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17825814", "title": "Embassy of Switzerland, London", "text": "Embassy of Switzerland, London\n\nThe Embassy of Switzerland () in London is the diplomatic mission of Switzerland in the United Kingdom. It consists of a large nineteenth-century building with a modern addition and is located halfway between Montagu Square and Bryanston Square. There is a commemorative stone at the entrance to the embassy marking its rebuilding in 1970.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47768115", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47768115", "title": "Emilie von Berlepsch", "text": "Emilie von Berlepsch\n\nDorothea Friderika Aemilia von Berlepsch (née von Oppel; 26 November 1755 – 27 July 1830), known as Emilie von Berlepsch, was a German traveller and author. She is regarded as an early writer about women's rights in Germany.\n\nShe was born in Gotha in 1755. Her parents were and his wife Amalie. When her father died, her mother remarried, and she was looked after by an uncle and given a good private education. She published some poetry and then a book of protest because Switzerland was invaded in 1798 by the French.\n\nShe married when she was sixteen and had three children with him. The marriage ended in divorce in 1787. Her ex-husband married Anna Dorothea Helene Siever, who had been her maid, after the divorce. By this time Berlepsch's writing was being regarded as more than amateur and aspiring to art. She is said to have \"set her cap\", unsuccessfully, at Johann Wolfgang von Goethe.\n\nShe left Switzerland in protest at the French invasion of the country and swore never to set foot in it again while it was occupied. She went to visit Scotland in 1799 and 1800. She had already met the polyglot Reverend James Macdonald in Germany who was acquainted with C. M. Wieland and J. G. Herder. Macdonald was an enthusiast for improving relations between Scotland and Germany. The vicar in Fife became Berlepsch's chosen host. He looked after her and took her on tours of Scotland; some of her time was spent in Edinburgh and some in the Highlands. Berlepsch wrote a four volume account titled \"Caledonia\", in German, which described Scotland, including the remote highlands, and discussed women writers publishing in English. Within her own conventional restrictions, Berlepsch especially championed Mary Wollstonecraft.\n\nMacdonald's affection for Berlepsch did not extend to marriage, and Berlepsch was disappointed. She returned to Germany and married again. Her second marriage was to August Heinrich Harmes who was not of noble birth. They lived at Lake Zurich until 1817.\n\nBerlepsch's book \"Caledonia\" included early translations and reviews of Robert Burns. Her translations are credited with encouraging an acceptance and appreciation of Burns's work. There were numerous reviews in German newspapers and journals after Berlepsch's translations were published.\n\nIn her writing Berlepsch deals particularly with the subject of women's rights. She described herself as \"fighting against the prejudice that wants to grant women neither a will of their own nor the courage to express it\". She talks about routine misogyny that cannot be handled by submissiveness. She argues that women are given neither rights nor the opportunity to complain; women are not, by their nature, prisoners of their emotions and men are not natural tyrants. She wanted an end to misogyny but she believed that men retained supremacy. She discussed various writers for German readers including particularly Mary Wollstonecraft. She notes her similar role in raising these subjects for the first time in German.\n\nBerlepsch died in Lauenburg in 1830.\nEmilie von Berlepsch's published works as cited by \"An Encyclopedia of Continental Women Writers\".\n"}
{"id": "32030533", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32030533", "title": "Helvetic Society", "text": "Helvetic Society\n\nThe Helvetische Gesellschaft / Société Helvétique, or Helvetic Society as it is known in English, was a patriotic society and the first Swiss reform society. It was founded by Swiss philosopher Isaak Iselin, poet Solomon Gessner and some 20 others on 15 May 1762, and was dissolved with the formation of the Helvetic Republic in 1798. It was revived again from 1819 on until 1849. The latter should not be confused with the contemporary Helvetic Society for the Natural Sciences, established in 1815.\n\nThe Helvetic Society was the first patriotic society in Switzerland aimed at all Swiss people. It was inspired by Franz Urs Balthasar's \"Patriotische Träume eines Eidgenossen von einem Mittel, die veraltete Eidgenosenschaft wieder zu verjüngen\", an essay from 1758 which was distributed in manuscript form and was discussed by Joseph Anton Felix von Balthasar (son of the author), Iselin, Gessner and Hans Caspar Hirzel.\n\nAfter two years of discussion, and a change of scope from an historical society to a more socially directed one, the Society first met with 9 members in 1761, and was eventually formed on 15 May 1762 in Schinznach-Dorf, with statutes by Hirzel, with 25 initial members. While it had an open membership structure and advocated religious harmony, very few Catholics joined, and the members were predominantly German-speaking. The society tried to be more than just a philosophical debate club like most other similar European societies, and also organised social activities, and a yearly autumn meeting from 1763 on, first in Schitznach, and from 1780 on in Olten, and finally in Aarau. New statutes were approved in 1766, focusing on the inclusiveness of the society towards all Swiss from all cantons. The aims of the Society included a democratic reform of the Swiss constitution, and education for all, influenced by the ideas of Jean-Jacques Rousseau as expressed in \"\". The pedagogic reformer Johann Heinrich Pestalozzi was an early member of the Society. He was one of the contributors for the Society's magazine \"Der Erinnerer\", established in 1765, but it was soon suppressed for being too radical and critical of the authorities.\n\nThe 1766 statutes listed as the aim of the Society \"The only goal and unique object of our Society must be to establish and conserve between the Swiss love and friendship, unity and concord; to maintain among them the taste for beautiful, noble and great acts; and to transmit for posterity liberty, peace and virtue through the care of good citizens\".\n\nAfter a halting start, with a membership that stayed at around 80 until 1770, the society flourished, with 159 members by 1780 and 283 by 1797, with a steady rise in visitors as well, like some members of the Bernoulli family in 1763. Among the new members were a lot of cantonal magistrates and other members of the Swiss elite. Of the 386 members the society had between 1762 and 1798, some 90 percent held a political office at some time.\n\nIn 1798, instead of an annual meeting, the members of the Helvetic Society started with the creation of the legislative assembly for the new Helvetic Republic, providing many members. The Society was abandoned, and was revived in 1819. The second version of the Society existed until 1849, when the society had become superfluous when most of its ideas were included in the new Swiss Federal Constitution of 1848.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38066507", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38066507", "title": "Hispanic and Latino conservatism in the United States", "text": "Hispanic and Latino conservatism in the United States\n\nHispanic and Latino Americans have received a growing share of the national vote in the United States by their growing number. They have traditionally been a Democratic constituency, in the main.\n\nMost Cuban-Americans and Venezuelan-Americans tend to support the Republican Party, while Mexican-Americans, Puerto Ricans, Salvadoran-Americans, Guateman-Americans, and Dominican-Americans tend to support the Democratic Party. As the latter groups are far more numerous (Mexican Americans alone are 64% of Hispanics), the Democratic Party is considered to be in a far stronger position among Hispanics overall. The U.S. Census indicates that the Hispanic population of the United States is the fastest growing minority group in the country.\n\nMore than 9% of eligible voters nationwide are Latino. The majority support for Democratic candidates continues a pattern among Hispanic voters. In a December 2011, 67% of Hispanics said they were Democrats, and 20% of Hispanics said they were Republicans.\n\nIn the 2010 midterm elections, 60% of Hispanics voted Democratic, while 38% voted Republican. In 2008, 67% of Hispanics voted for Democratic presidential candidate Barack Obama, while 31% of Hispanics voted for Republican presidential candidate John McCain. In 2006, 69% of Latino voters supported Democratic candidates in congressional races, while 30% supported Republican candidates.\n\nAccording to an October 2010 report by the Pew Hispanic Center, Hispanics rank education, jobs, and health care as their top three issues of concern. Immigration ranks as the fourth most important issue for all Latinos.\n\nA 2012 study by the Center for Immigration Studies projected that in November 2012 Hispanics would comprise 17.2 percent of the total U.S. population, 15 percent of adults, 11.2 percent of adult citizens, and 8.9 percent of actual voters. By comparison, the report found that in 2012, non-Hispanic whites are expected to be 73.4 percent of the national vote and non-Hispanic blacks are expected to be 12.2 percent. The report noted that by weight \"eight percentage points of the Hispanic vote nationally equals slightly less than one percentage point of the non-Hispanic white vote.\" The study also compared the 8.9 percent Hispanic share of voters to veterans (12 percent of the electorate), those with family incomes above $100,000 (18 percent), seniors 65 and older (19 percent), married persons (60 percent), and those who live in owner-occupied housing (80 percent).\n\nIn terms of voter turnout, the Center for Immigration Studies projected that 52.7 percent (± 0.6) of eligible Hispanics will vote in the 2012 election, an increase from 49.9 percent in 2008 and a continuation of the past decade's long upward trend. The projected Hispanic voter participation rate of 52.7 percent compares to 66.1 percent for non-Hispanic whites and 65.2 percent for non-Hispanic blacks in 2008.\n\nThis is a timeline of significant events in Hispanic history which have shaped the conservative movement in the United States.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4656542", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4656542", "title": "Hostosian National Independence Movement", "text": "Hostosian National Independence Movement\n\nThe Hostosian National Independence Movement (, MINH) is a leftist and pro-independence organization (and unregistered political party) in Puerto Rico. As of 2015, Julio Muriente is known to be the leader.\n\nThe MINH was formed on May 6, 2004, by a merger of the National Hostosian Congress (CNH) and the \"New Puerto Rican Independence Movement\" (NMIP). The two groups that formed the MINH were organizational descendants of the Puerto Rican Socialist Party (PSP). The organization's name and ideology are based on the tradition of Eugenio María de Hostos, a historical independence advocate. The official organ of the MINH is \"Red Betances\" and the newspaper \"El Hostosiano\".\n\nThe MINH was founded by the unification of two other independence groups: the \"Congreso Nacional Hostosiano (CNH)\" and the \"Nuevo Movimiento Independentista Puertorriqueno (NMIP)\". The MINH is not, nor strives to be, an electoral party. Instead, the MINH original goal was to operate in Civil Society as an autonomous entity engaged in community organizing, patriotic education campaigns, anti-colonialism, and defending/promoting the ideal of independence among Puerto Ricans.\n\nIt was an organisational observer of the Non-Aligned Movement.\n\nThe MINH, as an organization, does not aspire to be an \"electoral party\", although its members are given the freedom to vote or not vote in Puerto Rican elections. \nControversies exist within the independence movement because the MINH does not compel its members to vote for any particular party, but rather whichever candidate they, as individuals, believe is the best to administer the country. These controversies have greatly impacted the Puerto Rican independence movement. Along with the MINH, other independence organizations are the Puerto Rican Independence Party, the Nationalist Party of Puerto Rico, the Socialist Front, Communist Party of Puerto Rico, and the Socialist Workers Movement.\n\nThe MINH has also been a strong catalyst in promoting a unicameral legislature in Puerto Rico, a Constituent Assembly on Status, and a greater role for Puerto Rico in the international arena, especially in the United Nations. Since 2004, the MINH has been organizing itself at the national, regional, and municipal levels with \"base structures\" and \"specialized organizations\". The MINH National Committee or Headquarters is located in San Juan. All other major Puerto Rican cities (Ponce, Mayagüez, Arecibo, Caguas, Toa Baja and Carolina) have Municipal Committees or \"Base Structures\" as do various other smaller towns throughout the island. \n\nThe MINH also operates various \"Puerto Rico Missions\", of which the most important is located in Havana, Cuba. Many more missions are planned to be established throughout Latin America, especially Mexico and Venezuela. Established groups that share the aims and goals of the MINH can join and affiliate themselves as \"Specialized Organizations\". The MINH has also established its own newspaper called \"El Hostosiano\" which is distributed throughout the island.\n\n\nThe organisation also reportedly has a \"radical youth wing\". \n\nMINH members (called \"hostosianos\") must be committed to the defense of \"Social Justice Participatory Democracy and Making Puerto Rico a Free, Sovereign, and Independent Nation.\"\n\n\nIn 2015 they praised (through their spokesperson Héctor Pesquera) Puerto Rican independence protests, saying \"...it’s been a long time since an event for independence was so successful.\"\n\nIn 2016, MINH (via Wilma Reverón) denounced the collection of DNA samples from 3 independentist militants.\n\n"}
{"id": "39032658", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39032658", "title": "Humanist Party (Iceland)", "text": "Humanist Party (Iceland)\n\nThe Humanist Party () is a political party in Iceland founded on 25 June 1984. It has run candidates in the 1987 and 1999 parliamentary elections, but has never achieved representation. It is related to the International Humanist Party.\n\nThey successfully applied for the list letter H to contest the 2013 Icelandic parliamentary election, and subsequently submitted an official candidate list on 12 April 2013.</small> In the 2013 election they chose to only run candidates in the Reykjavik North and Reykjavik South constituencies.\n\nThe party ran candidates in the 1987 and 1999 parliamentary elections, and stood candidates for the Reykjavík City Council in 1986, 1990, 1998, and 2002. They never achieved representation in either body.\n\n"}
{"id": "53321154", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53321154", "title": "ICWATCH", "text": "ICWATCH\n\nICWATCH is a public database of mainly LinkedIn profiles of people in the United States Intelligence Community. The database was created by Transparency Toolkit and is hosted by WikiLeaks.\n\nThe publication of global surveillance disclosures in 2013 revealed code names for surveillance projects including MARINA and MAINWAY. It was then discovered that the LinkedIn profiles of individuals in the intelligence community mentioned these code names as well as additional ones. Transparency Toolkit took advantage of this and automated the collection of LinkedIn profiles mentioning such code names, collating them into a searchable database.\n\nThe name \"ICWATCH\" is a play on ICREACH, an alleged top-secret, surveillance-related search engine created by the United States National Security Agency (NSA) after the September 11 attacks.\n\nThe initial commit to the Git repository of LookingGlass was made on August 23, 2014. LookingGlass is a search tool that was built for use in ICWATCH.\n\nICWATCH launched on May 6, 2015; on the same day, Transparency Toolkit, the group that created ICWATCH, presented it at the conference. At launch, the database contained information from over 27,000 LinkedIn profiles.\n\nBy mid-May 2015, Transparency Toolkit began receiving requests from individuals to be removed from ICWATCH, including death threats. Following the threats as well as distributed denial-of-service attacks made against the site, WikiLeaks began hosting the website and database by the end of May 2015.\n\nBy May 20, 2015, the number of profiles in ICWATCH had increased to almost 140,000.\n\nIn August 2016 TechCrunch reported that LinkedIn was suing 100 unnamed individuals who had scraped LinkedIn's website, and named ICWATCH as a possible target.\n\n, the database tracks over 100,000 profiles from LinkedIn, Indeed, and other public sources.\n\nThe database can be searched using the company, location, industry, and other parameters of the intelligence workers.\n\nMost of the discovered profiles are not of those in the National Security Agency but of those working for contractors.\n\nThe project also revealed possible trends in employment in the intelligence community. For instance, the \"number of people claiming to work with SIGINT databases […] has increased dramatically over the years since 2008, with just a small decline starting in 2013.\"\n\nM. C. McGrath of Transparency Toolkit believes that the workers are \"for the most part, pretty normal people\".\n\nIan Paul of \"PC World\" voiced concern for the safety of the individuals listed in the database.\n\n"}
{"id": "6197144", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6197144", "title": "International Committee for Democracy in Cuba", "text": "International Committee for Democracy in Cuba\n\nThe International Committee for Democracy in Cuba (ICDC) was created in September 2003 as \"a response to the latest brutal crackdown by the Cuban government in the spring of that year against those pushing for democratic reforms, freedom of speech and adherence to international human rights agreements\".\n\nThe ICDC includes prominent international political figures, diplomats and intellectuals from around the world who want to show political solidarity with fellow democracy activists in Cuba and channel economic support to Cuba’s democratic opposition.\n\nOn 17–19 September 2004 the group held a conference of former heads of state, current ministers and representatives from the European Union and Latin America, leaders from international and regional organizations, intellectuals, academics, human rights activists, members of non governmental organizations, and representatives of the Cuban opposition.\n\nThe group is based in Prague and headed by Czech playwright, writer and ex-President Václav Havel was a member of Charter 77.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5884988", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5884988", "title": "Jane Addams Children's Book Award", "text": "Jane Addams Children's Book Award\n\nThe Jane Addams Children's Book Award is given annually to a children's book published the preceding year that advances the causes of peace and social equality. The awards have been presented annually since 1953. They were previously given jointly by the Women's International League for Peace and Freedom (WILPF) and the Jane Addams Peace Association, but are now presented solely by the Jane Addams Peace Association.\n\nThe Jane Addams Children's Book Award was originally awarded to one book per year without categories. A Picture Book category was added in 1993; the award is currently given to two books annually, one for older children and one for younger children. In 2003, the time of year the award is given changed from September, honoring Jane Addams' birthday, to April, honoring the WILPF's birthday. \n\nIn the sixty-plus years of the award’s history, there has been one public controversy over the selection of its winner. In 1970, the award was given to \"The Cay\" by Theodore Taylor, a book which became highly criticized in the years since its publication. In 1974, the current award chair, who was not the chair at the time the award was given to \"The Cay\", publicly stated that she thought it was a mistake to have named \"The Cay\" an Addams Award winner. In response, Taylor, who saw the work as \"a subtle plea for better race relations and more understanding,\" returned the Award \"by choice, not in anger, but with troubling questions.\" In later years, Taylor reported that the Award had been rescinded. Even though \"The Cay\" remains on the list of Addams Award winners, Taylor's claim is widely thought to be true and has become a part of reading and discussing the book with young people today.\n\nAwards & Honors\n"}
{"id": "15454261", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15454261", "title": "Ken Knabb", "text": "Ken Knabb\n\nKen Knabb (born 1945) is an American writer, translator, and radical theorist, known for his translations of Guy Debord and the Situationist International. His own English-language writings, many of which were anthologized in \"Public Secrets\" (1997), have been translated into over a dozen additional languages. He is also a respected authority on the political significance of Kenneth Rexroth.\n\nKnabb was born in Louisiana in 1945 and raised in Missouri. He attended Shimer College from 1961 to 1965, then moved to Berkeley, California, where he took part in the countercultural and radical adventures of the 1960s. In 1969, having become disillusioned with the increasingly authoritarian tendencies in the New Left movement, he became an anarchist. Later that same year, he discovered some pamphlets by the Situationist International and was so struck by them that he began experimenting with critiques and interventions in a style similar to that of the situationists. Over the next few years, he taught himself French in order to read the original situationist writings (most of which were then unavailable in English) and made several extended visits to France to meet various situationist groups and individuals, as well as shorter trips to meet contacts in other European countries and in Japan and Hong Kong.\n\nIn 1981, Knabb published the \"Situationist International Anthology\", a large collection of articles drawn mostly from the French journal \"Internationale Situationniste\". His other translations include Guy Debord's film scripts (\"Complete Cinematic Works\"), Debord's \"The Society of the Spectacle\", and Ngo Van's \"In the Crossfire: Adventures of a Vietnamese Revolutionary\". Knabb's own writings include leaflets, comics, pamphlets and articles on Wilhelm Reich, Georges Brassens, Gary Snyder, the 1960s hip counterculture, the 1970 Polish revolt, the 1979 Iranian revolution, the 1991 Gulf war, the 2006 anti-CPE revolt in France, the 2011 Occupy movement, and the 2016 Trump election. Longer works include \"The Relevance of Rexroth\" (a study of the anarchist poet and essayist Kenneth Rexroth), \"Gateway to the Vast Realms\" (a reader's guide to 500 recommended books), and \"The Joy of Revolution\" (an examination of the pros and cons of diverse radical tactics followed by some speculations on how a nonstate and noncapitalist postrevolutionary society might function).\n\nAlthough Knabb has remained in substantial agreement with most of the situationist perspectives, some of his writings can be seen as attempts to meld, or at least to juxtapose, those perspectives with the rather different tone and scope of Kenneth Rexroth and with the experiential insights of Zen Buddhism (he is a long-time Zen practitioner). In a 1977 pamphlet, for example, he critiqued what he saw as the situationists' blindspot regarding religion. Conversely, he has also criticized the political naiveté of \"socially engaged\" Buddhists. Another of his recurring themes is the importance of paying attention to the psychological or \"subjective\" aspect of radical activities.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28696353", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28696353", "title": "LGBT conservatism", "text": "LGBT conservatism\n\nLGBT conservatism refers to a socio-political movement which embraces and promotes the ideology of conservatism within an LGBT (lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender) context. Gay conservatives may also refer to lesbian or gay persons with conservative political views. The number of openly LGBT advocates for conservative policies has only become increasingly apparent since the advent of the modern LGBT civil rights movement in the 1970s while many more LGBT conservatives remain closeted in countries where other socially conservative politicians have led the most organized opposition to LGBT rights efforts as well as the backlash from liberal LGBT. The situation and ideology for LGBT conservatives varies by each country's social and political LGBT rights climate.\n\nIn 1852, under the prime ministership of the Duke of Saldanha, a liberal-conservative Cartista, same-sex sexual intercourse was legalized throughout Portugal.\n\nIn 1870, the draft penal law submitted by Chancellor Otto von Bismarck to the North German Confederation retained the relevant Prussian penal provisions criminalizing male same-sex sexual intercourse, justifying this out of concern for \"public opinion\":\nEven though one can justify the omission of these penal provisions from the standpoint of Medicine as well as on grounds taken from certain theories of criminal lawthe public's sense of justice (\"das Rechtsbewußtsein im Volke\") views these acts not merely as vices but as crimes [...].\n\nOn May 15, 1871, under Chancellor Otto von Bismarck, Paragraph 175 was enacted throughout the German Empire.\n\nIn August 1885, under Conservative Prime Minister of the United Kingdom Robert Gascoyne-Cecil, 3rd Marquess of Salisbury, the Labouchere Amendment passed August 7, 1885 becoming Section 11 of the Criminal Law Amendment Act 1885.\n\nIn 1887, during the period known as the Conservative Republic (), same-sex sexual intercourse was legalized throughout Argentina.\n\nOn February 24, 1954, British Prime Minister Winston Churchill, during a cabinet meeting, bluntly replied that the Conservative Party was not going to accept responsibility for making the law more lenient towards gay men. He suggested that an enquiry might be the way forward, proposed limiting press coverage of the convictions of homosexuals, and suggested that any man caught by police should be offered the option of medical treatment. “Otherwise, I wouldn’t touch the subject,” he said. “Let it get worse – in hope of a more united public pressure for some amendment.”\n\nIn 2007, Brian Coleman, a former openly gay Conservative member of the London Assembly and former mayor of Barnet, wrote in the \"New Statesman\" that in the mid-1950s, London police were aware that future Prime Minister Edward Heath was \"cottaging\" (seeking out anonymous sex partners in public lavatories) and that they warned him to stop, lest it damage his career. Coleman also claimed that gays \"ran\" the Conservative Party in London for many years, suggesting Heath may have been “protected”. “[Britain] had managed for decades with gay men holding a significant number of public offices”, Coleman wrote.\n\nIn 1957, after the international conference Wolfenden50, the Conservative government appointed the Committee on Homosexual Offences and Prostitution 1957 to investigate what were perceived as two increasing social problems, in the context of rising prosecutions. The committees terms of reference asked members to consider ‘the law and practice’ relating to both ‘homosexual offences and the treatment of persons convicted of such offences’ and to offences connected to ‘prostitution and solicitation for immoral purposes’. The association between homosexuality and prostitution reflected the committee’s assumption that both were forms of deviance threatening the family as ‘the basic unit of society’. The committee’s report in 1957 included as its first recommendation ‘That homosexual behaviour between consenting adults in private be no longer a criminal offence’; other recommendations sought the tightening of the law concerning public same-sex behaviour and street prostitution, although acts of selling sex would remain legal.\n\nIn May 1965, Arthur Gore, 8th Earl of Arran and Conservative Party Chief Whip, introduced into the House of Lords a bill decriminalizing male same-sex sexual intercourse in England and Wales. During its passage, senior peers inserted a strict privacy clause, applying a more restrictive standard of privacy than for heterosexual behavior. This specified that a ‘homosexual act’ would not be considered ‘private’ if ‘more than two persons take part or are present’, or if occurring in a public lavatory. The bill passed through the Lords in July 1965 and was brought into the House of Commons by Conservative MP Humphrey Berkeley, known to be homosexual by many in parliament. After a Labour victory in the general election in 1966, Berkeley lost his seat and was replaced as the bill’s sponsor by Labour MP Leo Abse.\n\nProspective Conservative Prime Minister Robert Boothby (later Lord Boothby), who was homosexual, was peppered throughout parliament and the establishment, and hence their political colleagues had every interest in decriminalizing their activities. Boothby was involved in a friendship and possibly a sexual relationship with Ronnie Kray, while simultaneously the long-term lover of Lady Dorothy Macmillan, wife of Harold Macmillan, Conservative Prime Minister from 1957 to 1963.\n\nWhen the Sexual Offences Act 1967 passed in 1967, only a handful of Conservatives voted for the decriminalization of male same-sex sexual intercourse, including future Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher.\n\nOn June 25, 1969, shortly before the end of the Christian Democratic Union (CDU) – Social Democratic Party of Germany (SPD) Grand Coalition headed by CDU Chancellor Kurt Georg Kiesinger, Paragraph 175 was reformed, in that only the \"qualified cases\" that were previously handled in §175a – sex with a man less than 21 years old, homosexual prostitution, and the exploitation of a relationship of dependency (such as employing or supervising a person in a work situation) – were retained. Paragraph 175b (concerning bestiality) also was removed.\n\nIn 1975, the Conservative Group for Homosexual Equality (CGHE) was founded in the United Kingdom by Peter Walter Campbell. It was the first LGBT conservative organization ever.\n\nIn 2007, Brian Coleman, a former openly gay Conservative member of the London Assembly and former mayor of Barnet, wrote in the \"New Statesman\" that many of the gay politicians in the Conservative Party joined the party and became active during the Thatcher years. He also contended that the underlying ethos of Thatcherism might well be pro-gay and it was Margaret Thatcher's personality which attracted so many homosexual men to the party. The reason he contended that the Iron Lady drew many gay men to the Conservative Party was her pure elegance, feminine perfection, perfect dress sense, and sheer determination to change society and whilst her government might have had an anti-gay aura there was simply nothing in her personal attitude to demonstrate any prejudice, she appointed gay ministers, such as Earl of Avon (son of ex-Prime Minister Anthony Eden). On the subject of AIDS it was her government with Norman Fowler as Health Secretary which faced the issue head on and refused to take a moral tone on public information and prevention work. He finishes by stating that \"There are many gay Tory men who would like to sleep with David Cameron but it is Lady Thatcher whose portrait hangs over their bed!\"\n\nDuring the First Thatcher ministry, Criminal Justice Act 1980 was passed in 1980, legalizing same-sex sexual intercourse in Scotland.\n\nOn May 28, 1988, during the Third Thatcher ministry, Clause 28 of the Local Government Act 1988 received a 2 to 1 majority in the House of Lords and a vote of 254 to 201 in the House of Commons.\n\nIn 1991, the CGHE reconstituted at the Conservative Party Conference and renamed the Tory Campaign for Homosexual Equality (TORCHE). The organization would remain active til 2004 when it disbanded.\n\nOn April 21, 2003, the Ba'athist regime in Iraq was deposed. The Coalition Provisional Authority, established by the George W. Bush administration, abolished the death penalty and reverted to a revised 1988 penal code, thus legalizing same-sex sexual intercourse in Iraq.\n\nOn June 24, 2004, Fine Gael proposed legalizing civil partnerships for same-sex and opposite-sex couples who choose not to marry, the first Irish political party to do so. In November 2004, in reaction to the legal challenge on tax issues Taoiseach and Fianna Fáil leader Bertie Ahern said \"Couples want equality and we should try to deal with some of those issues\" but added that moves to legalise gay marriage are \"a long way off\". During the 2004 Irish presidential election, Fianna Fáil, Fine Gael, and Progressive Democrats, produced policies or made statements in favor of varying forms of recognition for same-sex couples. During the 2007 Irish general election, the manifestos of Fianna Fáil, Fine Gael, and Progressive Democrats, supported civil unions for same-sex couples. All parties ran advertisements in Gay Community News (GNC) with commitments to same-sex couples.\n\nIn 2010, Ógra Fianna Fáil came out in favor of same-sex marriage.\n\nIn 2010, the Botswana government, under the control of the Botswana Democratic Party, passed an amendment to its Employment Act that will bring an end to dismissal based on an individual's sexual orientation or HIV status.\n\nIn July 2011, Young Fine Gael came out in favor of same-sex marriage.\n\nOn October 5, 2011, British Prime Minister David Cameron said at a Conservative Party conference that \"So I don't support gay marriage despite being a Conservative. I support gay marriage because I'm a Conservative.\"\n\nOn March 3, 2012, Fianna Fáil came out in favour of same-sex marriage in Ireland.\n\nOn February 5, 2013, Marriage Act 2013, during its second reading, received in the House of Commons of the United Kingdom that Conservatives voted 126 for, 134 against (including 8 voted against from the Democratic Unionist Party), 5 both, and 36 did not vote. On May 21, 2013, the act, during its third reading, received in the House of Commons that Conservatives voted 117 for, 127 against (including 8 voted against from the Democratic Unionist Party), 7 both, and 51 did not vote. On June 4, 2013, the act, during its second reading, received in the House of Lords that Conservatives voted against the Dear Amendment to reject second reading, 66 voted in favour, including 2 in favour from the Democratic Unionist Party, 1 in favour from Ulster Unionist Party, and 2 in favor from UK Independence Party, and 63 did not vote. The act had its third reading on July 15, 2013, and was passed by a simple voice vote. The amended Bill returned to the House of Commons for approval of the amendments on 16 July 2013, which the House approved on the same day.\n\nOn November 5, 2013, Fine Gael came out in favour of same-sex marriage in Ireland.\n\nOn May 22, 2015, the Thirty-Fourth Amendment (Marriage Equality Act) to the Irish Constitution was passed in Ireland via national referendum. 62% of Irish voters voted in favour of same-sex marriage. Voter turnout was 61% of the national electorate. The referendum was introduced under the Fine Gael-Labour coalition government.\n\nIn Belgium, while centre-right parties like the New Flemish Alliance support LGBT rights, the right-wing to far-right Flemish Interest does not.\n\nBefore and following the Impeachment process against Dilma Rousseff, several gay conservatives have been visible. Clodovil Hernandes of the Christian Labour Party and later the Party of the Republic before his death in 2009 is considered to be the first known gay MP for the Chamber of Deputies.\n\nOn 16 January 2017, Marcelo Crivella, the mayor of Rio de Janeiro, promoted Nélio Georgini, a gay evangelical conservative, to the head of the city LGBT council.\n\nIn 2018, Brazilian LGBT community vote 30% in the right-wing populist Jair Bolsonaro against 57% of votes for leftist Fernando Haddad in the presidential runoff, according Datafolha. The 30% of votes in Bolsonaro shocked many in the Brazilian LGBT community, because Bolsonaro is seen by LGBT rights groups as a homophobe politician hostile to LGBT rights. The reasons attributed to these votes were the fear of violence, economic insecurity, attachment with traditional values, tiredness with Workers' Party and sensation of political manipulation of LGBT themes by the left in order to get votes. \n\nLGBTory was founded in 2015 as a group for LGBT supporters of the Conservative Party of Canada and provincial conservative parties across Canada. Prior to that, small groups existed locally in some Canadian cities or as discussion forums on the Internet.\n\nOpenly gay political figures such as Scott Brison, Lorne Mayencourt and Jaime Watt are or have been associated with conservative parties at the provincial or federal levels, Keith Norton, Phil Gillies and Heward Grafftey came out as gay after their careers as politicians had ended, and Richard Hatfield was outed as gay after his death. Most such figures, however, have been Red Tories, a moderate or even progressive faction within Canadian conservatism, rather than conventionally conservative \"Blue\" Tories; Brison, in fact, quit the Progressive Conservative Party to join the Liberals after the PCs merged with the more right-wing Canadian Alliance to form the Conservative Party.\n\nIn 2015, a contingent of federal Conservative MPs and provincial Ontario Progressive Conservative Party MPPs participated in Toronto's annual Pride Week parade for the first time in its history. Organized by LGBTory, the marching contingent included federal MPs Kellie Leitch and Bernard Trottier, Ontario PC leader Patrick Brown and MPPs Lisa MacLeod and Jack MacLaren, alongside numerous out LGBT party activists and supporters.\n\nLGBT representation in politics is promoted by ProudPolitics, a non-partisan networking and mentoring organization whose members span the political spectrum.\n\nIn 2014, the doctrinal council of the conservative National Renewal voted 72.3% to reject a proposal that would have advocated limiting marriage and adoption to heterosexual couples.\n\nMembers of the European Parliament from across the political spectrum, including conservatives, have formed the European Parliament Intergroup on LGBT Rights.\n\nA 2013 IFOP survey of French LGB people found that French LGB people have same underlying trends as the rest\nof the population, namely a radicalization of positions and some disenchantment with political parties. The left wing parties of France did not capitalize on Law 2013-404 with LGBT voters, which implies that the party positions on social issues are secondary to policy choices, with LGBT people having no distinction on this point the rest of the population. Despite some French media representations, sexual orientation does not appear to determine political views. With increasing acceptance of LGBT people in France, LGBT people in France feel less inclined to mobilize behind parties with the political demands of the LGBT community.\n\nSupport for the Socialist Party (PS) from 2012 and 2013 found that 21% of bisexuals supported PS in 2012, but only 16% supported PS in 2013, while LGB people maintained support for PS and the Europe Ecology – The Greens at 27% and 6% from 2012 to 2013. Law 2013-404 has allowed the left government to maintain its support among LGB people overall, while in steep decline in the overall population. In 2011, 50% of LGB people supported left wing parties, while in 2012, 44% of LGB people supported left wing parties, and in 2013, 36% of LGB people supported left wing parties. When counting gay voters only, 45% supported left wing parties in 2012, while 38% supported left wing parties in 2013. Among non-heterosexuals, 24% supported left wing parties in 2012, while 21% supported left wing parties in 2013. Among heterosexuals, 21% supported left wing parties in 2012, while 18% supported left wing parties in 2013. Disaffection towards the left party is a phenomenon is affecting all sexual orientation categories of the population.\n\nIn 2011, 15% of non-heterosexuals supported center-right wing parties, while in 2012, 20% of non-heterosexuals supported center-right wing parties, and in 2013, 22% of non-heterosexuals supported center-right wing parties. In 2011, 17% of bisexuals supported center-right wing parties, while in 2012, 21% of bisexuals supported center-right wing parties, and in 2013, 17% of bisexuals supported center-right wing parties. In 2011, 13% of LGB people supported center-right wing parties, while in 2012, 20% of LGB people supported center-right wing parties, and in 2013, 21% of LGB people supported center-right wing parties. In 2011, 21% of heterosexuals supported center-right wing parties, while in 2012, 25% of heterosexuals supported center-right wing parties, and in 2013, 22% of heterosexuals supported center-right wing parties.\n\nDespite their opposition to Law 2013-404, the center right parties maintains its support among the LGB electorate, but in a more fragmented way than in the past. In 2012, 16% of LGB people supported the Union for a Popular Movement (UPM), while in 2013, 14% of LGB supported the UPM. In 2012, 20% of heterosexuals people supported the UPM, while in 2013, 17% of heterosexuals supported the UPM. This decline of support for UPM helped benefit of the Union of Democrats and Independents, with 6% among LGB people in 2013, given that the positions taken by some of its leaders, such as Rama Yade and Jean-Louis Borloo, in favor of same-sex marriage it was perhaps not unrelated.\n\nIn 2012, 10% of non-heterosexuals supported the National Front, while in 2013, 16% of non-heterosexuals supported the National Front. In 2012, 9% of bisexuals supported the National Front, while in 2013, 16% of bisexuals supported the National Front. In 2012, 10% of LGB people supported the National Front, while in 2013, 15% of LGB supported the National Front. In 2012, 9% of heterosexuals people supported the National Front, while in 2013, 13% of heterosexuals supported the National Front.\n\nSupport for the National Front is stronger in the ranks of LGB people than among all the French people, with 13% support for the National Front in 2013. The National Front is benefiting among LGB voters, with a +5% increase between 2012 and 2013, than in the rest of the population, +4% of heterosexuals in the same period. The increase of the National Front among LGB people is probably due to the composition of the electorate, with more male, urban, and younger people than the average population therefore generally more willing to vote for the National Front. In Paris, 26% of LGB residents support the National Front, with 16% heterosexuals support National Front. The National Front's hostility towards Islamism can seduce LGB people for whom Islam can appear as a threat against their lives and freedoms.\n\nMuch of the Dutch right wing (including figures such as Geert Wilders) has evolved to include LGBT rights platforms which do not conflict with the current status quo but also embrace an increased perturbation to supposed threats from minority religions (especially Islam) which, in their view, threaten to upend the vestiges of the liberalism and tolerance which has been associated with the Dutch social climate.\n\nThe Open Moderates is the LGBT-organisation of the Moderate Party in Sweden. The Open Moderates is an organization for everyone that shares the values of the Moderate Party and who believe that LGBT-issues are important political issues to work with from a centre-right perspective.\n\nThe origin of the Open Moderates is the Stockholm-based club “Gay Moderates” that was formed already in the late 1970s. That club had mostly social activities and it was active upon until the mid-1990s. A new generation took over and reorganized the Gay Moderates as a new more political network to lobby the Moderate Party. In 2003 the name was changed to the current Open Moderates to signal that the organisation is open to everyone regardless of sexual orientation that want to work with LGBT political issues.\n\nIn Switzerland, the centre-right party Conservative Democratic Party of Switzerland support LGBT rights, the right-wing Swiss People's Party does not.\n\nIn April 2015, PinkNews found 26% of British LGBT people supported the Conservative and Unionist Party, a 5% increase from the last election in 2010, 26% support the Labour Party, a 2% decrease from the last election in 2010, 19% support the Liberal Democrats, a 21% decrease from the last election in 2010, 20% support the Green Party of England and Wales/Scottish Green Party/Green Party in Northern Ireland, a 16% increase from the last election in 2010, and 2% supported the UK Independence Party. This is the first time in the 10 years that PinkNews has polled the LGBT community that the Conservatives have led the survey of voting intentions.\n\nThe first LGBT Conservative group was called CGHE (Conservative Group for Homosexual Equality). That group was reconstituted at the Conservative party Conference in 1991 and was renamed TORCHE (the Tory Campaign for Homosexual Equality). This group was active until 2003. Some years later LGBTory was formed. LGBTory has an active membership often organised using its Facebook groups and pages and attends vigils and LGBT Pride events across the UK including Pride London, Pride Scotia, Leeds Pride, Manchester Pride, Doncaster Pride and Brighton Pride.\n\nLGBTory campaigned in seats throughout the campaign for the 6 May 2010 General Election. There are now at least 12 openly gay and lesbian Conservative MPs in parliament.\n\nLGBTory works to promote LGBT Equality within the Conservative Party and generally across the UK, actively campaigning against the Gay Blood Ban and for marriage equality, regardless of sexuality or gender identity.\n\nThe UK Independence Party has an officially recognised LGBTQ in UKIP campaigning group which is active on the social media sites Twitter and Facebook. It has been represented at the party's annual conference. Peter Whittle of the UKIP was the only LGBT candidate in the 2016 London Assembly election and afterwards was selected as the UKIP's deputy leader.\n\n\nSome organizations include:\n\n"}
{"id": "42274731", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42274731", "title": "List of All India Forward Bloc candidates in the Indian general election, 2014", "text": "List of All India Forward Bloc candidates in the Indian general election, 2014\n\nOn 21 March 2014 the All India Forward Bloc released its first list of candidates for the 2014 Lok Sabha election. The list included candidates for 38 seats in West Bengal, Maharashtra, Assam, Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Haryana, Jharkhand, Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Odisha, Rajasthan, Karnataka and Delhi. According to the party general secretary Debabrata Biswas the main objective of the party in the elections was \"to strengthen and unite the Left, democratic and secular forces to achieve an alternative policy for reconstruction of the country\".\n\nPancham Lal joined the party on 18 March 2014, and was nominated for the Pataliputra seat. Lal had been a senior civil servant. He retired from his post as chief secretary in 2012. During his administrative career, he faced opposition from several different Chief Ministers as he criticised corruption and criminal links of state ministers. He had earlier been associated with the Indian National Congress and the Samajwadi Party. Commenting on his candidature, Lal stated that his foremost objective was not to win the Lok Sabha seat but \"to raise the cause of the oppressed and weaker sections, who are exploited and victimized\".\n\nThe party fielded G.R. Shivshankar, secretary of its Karnataka state unit, in the Bangalore South seat. He is the president of the labour wing of the party, the Trade Union Coordination Committee (TUCC).\n\nNo candidates from Kerala were included in the first list released on 21 March 2014. On 11 March 2014 the party chairman K. Velappan Nair stated that the party would contest four seats in the state; Kollam, Idukki, Thrissur and Kannur. The All India Secretary of the party, G. Devarajan, would contest from Kollam, whilst no names were given for the three other seats. G. Devarajan would contested against the Left Democratic Front nominee and CPI(M) leader M.A. Baby and the United Democratic Front nominee N.K. Premachandran of the RSP. Three days later G. Devarajan stated that he would withdraw his candidature if the party was included in the LDF and that talks with CPI(M) were ongoing.\n\nThe party fielded the candidacy of veteran pro-Vidarbha statehood leader Jambuwantrao Dhote in the Nagpur seat. Dhote had won the Nagpur seat in the 1971 election as an All India Forward Bloc candidate but had since contested on behalf of many other parties. Another pro-Vidarbha statehood leader, Sandesh Bhalekar from the Parivartan Morcha, was fielded by the party in the Ramtek seat. In a statement made in early February 2014, commenting on his return to the party, Dhote stated that the ambition of the All India Forward Bloc was to contest all ten Lok Sabha seats in Vidarbha. At the time he hinted that the party was seeking to establish a pre-poll pact with the Janata Dal (United), the Indian Union Muslim League and the Shivrajya Party. Dhote was elected deputy chairman of the party at its 17th congress in September 2013.\n\nIn West Bengal the party contests elections as part of the Left Front. In regards to the two West Bengal seats that it won in the 2009 election, the party decided to field incumbent parliamentarian Narahari Mahato in the Purulia seat whilst fielding a new candidate in the Cooch Behar seat.\n"}
{"id": "23739421", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23739421", "title": "List of League of Polish Families politicians", "text": "List of League of Polish Families politicians\n\nA list of notable Polish politicians of the right-wing League of Polish Families party ().\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39001817", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39001817", "title": "List of proposed Australian flags", "text": "List of proposed Australian flags\n\nThis is a list comprising flags publicly suggested as alternatives to the current flag of Australia.\n\n"}
{"id": "56029308", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56029308", "title": "Los Padres Condor Range and River Protection Act of 1992", "text": "Los Padres Condor Range and River Protection Act of 1992\n\nThe Los Padres Condor Range and River Protection Act of 1992 (Public Law 102-301) is a Federal law that established five new designated Wilderness Areas and three new designated Wild and Scenic Rivers in the Los Padres National Forest and Angeles National Forest in California. The law was sponsored by California Republican and Ventura County native Robert J. Lagomarsino while he represented California's 19th District in the United States House of Representatives. The legislation was cosponsored by Democratic and Republican representatives from districts representing the entirety of the Los Padres National Forest.\n\nSigned by President George H.W. Bush, the law designated 316,050 acres of new wilderness, expanded existing wilderness by 84,400 acres, and designated 84 miles of new Wild and Scenic Rivers. Most of the areas protected by the law provide habitat for the California condor, a species that was extant only in captivity as of 1987 when all 27 condors left in the world were being kept in California breeding facilities and for which the legislation was named. Six months before the bill was signed into law in 1992, two of the captive California condors were reintroduced into the Sespe Condor Sanctuary, a protected area that would go on to become part of the new Sespe Wilderness in Ventura County, California.\n\nThe Los Padres Condor Range and River Protection Act was first introduced to Congress as H.R. 4747 (100th U.S. Congress) by Representative Robert J. Lagomarsino in 1988. This first version of the legislation sought only to establish the Sespe and Matilija Wilderness Areas in addition to expanding the San Rafael Wilderness.\n\nLagomarsino then reintroduced the bill in 1989 as H.R. 1473 (101st U.S. Congress), which was altered from the previous version to also designate the Garcia and San Emigdio Mesa Wilderness Areas while expanding the Ventana Wilderness. This version of the legislation would have also designated portions of Sespe Creek, Sisquoc River, and Big Sur River as Wild and Scenic Rivers. The bill passed the House of Representatives with amendments in October 1989, but never received a floor vote in the Senate. \n\nLagomarsino worked closely with both of California's senators at the time, Democratic Senator Alan Cranston and Republican Senator John F. Seymour, in developing the final bill that would be eventually signed into law. The bill introduced to and eventually passed by both houses of the 102nd U.S. Congress changed from the previous version by also establishing the Chumash and Silver Peak Wilderness Areas, containing no provisions allowing for new directional oil drilling leases under wilderness, and modified language regarding water rights and management of wilderness areas. President George H.W. Bush signed the Los Padres Condor Range and River Protection Act into law in 1992, lauding the legislation for protecting habitat critical to the recovery of the nearly extinct California condor, increasing the amount of national forest lands in California protected under the Wilderness Act of 1964 by 10%, and permanently protecting nearly half of the Los Padres National Forest as wilderness.\n\nFive new wilderness areas totaling 316,050 acres were designated within the Los Padres National Forest (although the Sespe Wilderness includes a small portion of the Angeles National Forest ):\nThese wilderness areas span Kern, Monterey, San Luis Obispo, Santa Barbara, and Ventura Counties as well as the Los Padres National Forest's Santa Lucia, Monterey, Mount Pinos, and Ojai Ranger Districts\n\nTwo existing wilderness areas within the Los Padres National Forest were expanded by 84,400 acres:\nThese wilderness areas span Monterey and Santa Barbara Counties and the Los Padrs National Forest's Santa Barbara, Santa Lucia, and Monterey Ranger Districts.\n\nThe legislation amended the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act of 1968 to establish 84 miles of three streams within the Los Padres National Forest as new Wild and Scenic Rivers:\n\nIn designating the Sespe Wilderness, the Los Padres Condor Range and River Protection Act also recognized an existing 18-mile trail between Reyes Creek and Lion Campgrounds as the Gene Marshall-Piedra Blanca National Recreation Trail. The legislation established water rights to begin reserving a quantity of water \"sufficient to fulfill the purposes of this Act.\" Additionally, the legislation amended the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act of 1968 by adding portions of Piru Creek, Little Sur River, Matilija Creek, Lopez Creek, and Sespe Creek to the list of streams for potential designation as Wild and Scenic Rivers. \n"}
{"id": "20822380", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20822380", "title": "Meadeau View Institute", "text": "Meadeau View Institute\n\nThe Meadeau View Institute was a conservative organization that operated in Duck Creek, Utah, from the mid-1980s to the early 1990s. The institute was notable for seeking to build a Utopian community of alternative-lifestyle conservatives in Southern Utah. The community collapsed in 1994 due to financial problems incident to the loss of property in an accidental explosion.\n\nWilliam H. Doughty, the institute's founder and money manager, accepted over $1 million in donations and loans from backers in an attempt to build a conservative Utopia in Duck Creek and Mammoth Valley, Utah (near Hatch). In December 1986, Doughty purchased a vacant lodge in Duck Creek from Harry and Gabrielle Moyer, who carried the note for him. He later moved his Institute for Constitutional Education (ICE) from Cedar City to the lodge. Contributors include W. Cleon Skousen, Glenn Kimber, and Donald N. Sills.\n\nDuring the winter of 1993, snow build-up from a record snowfall led to a propane explosion at the Meadeau View lodge. The investment which had been made in this asset was lost, as well as the income from seminars and conferences. As a result, donations and other fundraising efforts also failed, leading to the demise of the organization. The fledgeling George Wythe College, which had been holding classes in the lodge, moved to Cedar City, and those who sought to build the community, including Shanon Brooks (who later became president of George Wythe University), left.\n\nAs of 2004, Doughty still maintained a ranch in Mammoth Valley.\n\nThe \"Deseret News\" reported that participants who lost money were reluctant to come forward to authorities, due to their inherent distrust for the government.\n\n"}
{"id": "31672178", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31672178", "title": "Ministry of Culture (Lebanon)", "text": "Ministry of Culture (Lebanon)\n\nThe Ministry of Culture (, ) is a government ministry of Lebanon.\n\nThe Ministry was formed in 1993, originally as part of the Ministry of Culture and Higher Education from which it became a separate entity in August 2000. A new law was passed in October 2008 regarding a re-structuring for the Ministry. It now has responsibility over matters of heritage, antiquities, arts, literature, cultural industries and management of cultural and historical property.\n\nThe ministry's remit includes various tasks such as planning cultural and sectoral policy, organising and sponsoring literary and artistic affairs, developing the knowledge economy and establishing and co-ordinating expertise. Responsibilities include proposing draft laws and regulations, promoting creativity, research and productivity, promoting innovative products, establishing cultural facilities, archaeological surveys and excavations, preservation and public display of antiques and managing ancient sites. The ministry also supports and facilitates research in cultural fields organizes cultural events and conferences.\n\nThe Ministry is divided into three units, The Directorate General of Cultural Affairs, The Directorate General of Antiquities and The Joint Administrative Service. It also runs The Baakleen National Library, the General Authority for Museums and the National Higher Institute of Music. It is also attached to the National Committee for Education, Knowledge and Culture.\n\nThe current minister of culture is Doctor Ghattas Khoury, since December 2016.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22701968", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22701968", "title": "Murder of Robert Ross", "text": "Murder of Robert Ross\n\nIn Troy, New York, on March 6, 1894 during an election riot between pollwatchers and operatives of the local Democratic political ward boss who were engaged in repeat voting, a young poll watcher, Robert Ross, was shot and killed. His brother, William, was also shot but survived.\n\nBartholomew Shea and John McGough were at the polling booth of the third district of the Thirteenth Ward. William and Robert Ross were present as poll watchers. \"The row started when one of the Shea gang sought to vote upon another citizen's name and in a twinkling clubs and revolvers were flourished. Many shots were fired and when the fight closed it was found that Robert Ross had been fatally shot, that his brother, William, [sic] received a bullet in the neck and that Shea and McGough, who fled from the scene, had each been slightly wounded.\" Shea and McGough were caught and arrested, at which time McGough initially claimed he had fired the shot that killed Ross, but later apparently withdrew this claim, only to repeat the claim years later, after Shea's execution in 1896.\n\nA \"New York Times\" report on the incident laid blame directly on former Troy Mayor Edward Murphy, Jr., who had been elected to the United States Senate the previous year (he would serve one term), which included the following excerpt: \"\"The gun that shot Robert Ross has been loaded on election day in Troy ever since \"Boss\" Murphy's gang began their systematic frauds, a dozen years ago.\"\"\n\nMcGough and Shea were arrested and an original suspect in the shootings, John Boland, was released from custody. The trial of Shea and McGough began on May 28, 1894. Shea and McGough were convicted on July 4, 1894. McGough was sentenced by a jury to 20 years imprisonment, and Shea was sentenced to death. Several lengthy appeals and efforts to have Shea's sentence commuted failed and he was executed in 1896.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37504117", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37504117", "title": "Northern Future Forum", "text": "Northern Future Forum\n\nNorthern Future Forum is an annual, informal meeting of prime ministers, policy innovators, entrepreneurs and business leaders from the 9 nations of Denmark, Estonia, Finland, Iceland, Latvia, Lithuania, Norway, Sweden and the United Kingdom. Initially referred to as the UK Nordic Baltic Summit, the name Northern Future Forum was introduced at the second meeting in Stockholm, 2012. The group had a period of abeyance since the Stavanger meeting in 2016 was postponed following the outcome of the United Kingdom European Union membership referendum, 2016, and David Cameron subsequently stepping down as UK prime minister, to be succeeded by Theresa May. The summit was reconvened in October 2018 in Oslo.\n\nFormer Swedish prime minister Fredrik Reinfeldt first suggested that the UK and Nordic-Baltic Eight nations have a summit during his November 2010 visit to the UK,\nfollowing the UK general election in May and David Cameron becoming prime minister of the UK coalition government.\n\nThe Northern Future Forum was established to be a more relaxed meeting than usual international summits, with more of a collegiate atmosphere where leaders are encouraged to learn and interact with experts in the topics under discussion, rather than delivering set-piece speeches or engaging in behind-the-scenes trading. Described in a press release from Erna Solberg announcing the 2016 meeting in Norway as ‘[The] NFF is a little unusual, but very exciting meeting place for us politicians. In this concept, we get a different insights into innovative trends, presented by today's experts and entrepreneurs, who in different ways are building what is our common future’\n\nOn the 19–20 January London hosted the inaugural UK-Nordic-Baltic meeting at Whitechapel Gallery in the East End of London. The first summit hosted 120 participants and touched on themes of improving business ties in the region, with a focus on low carbon and high-tech industries. Other topics included how best to foster equality, wellbeing and competitiveness in the economic climate during the 2008–2012 global recession.\n\n\nThe British Prime Minister, David Cameron ended the first summit calling for a new alliance of Northern European nations.\n\nThe second summit on the 8–9 February, was hosted in Stockholm. The second meeting saw the name changed to the \"Northern Future Forum\".\nThe event was hosted in Fotografiska, The Swedish Museum of Photography, in the Södermalm district of the city.\n\nConference topics intended to focus on long-term sustainable growth were:\n\nThe third summit was held on February 27–28, 2013 in Riga, Latvia. The opening and closing plenary were held in the Latvian Museum of Decorative Arts and Design with discussions and a media centre at Hotel Konventa sēta.\n\nAt the Stockholm 2012 meeting the Latvian prime minister Valdis Dombrovskis had proposed that Riga could host the next forum meeting, which was supported by the other members.\n\nTwo main issues chosen for the Forum: \n\nThe Finnish Prime Minister Jyrki Katainen, was unable to attend due to domestic political reasons, and was represented by Olli-Pekka Heinonen, state secretary to the PM’s bureau, and state secretary to the Finnish Economy and Employment Ministry Marja Rislakki. The British PM David Cameron returned to his country shortly after the opening plenary meetings, replaced by Planning Minister Nick Boles. David Cameron met with Latvian PM Valdis Dombrovskis the evening before the forum opening in order to discuss Latvia and the UK’s bilateral relations, including economic cooperation and problems within the EU.\n\nAt the closing plenary in Riga 2013, Marja Rislakki, State Secretary of the Ministry of Employment and Economy of Finland made a proposal to hold the Northern Future Forum 2014 in Helsinki, Finland. The NFF convened in Helsinki during 6–7 November 2014 at the Startup Sauna business accelerator of Aalto University's Otaniemi campus. The discussion themes of the 2014 meeting were:\n\nAt the Helsinki meeting the Prime Minister of Iceland Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson invited delegates to Reykjavik for the next Northern Future Forum. The meeting was held on 28–29 October at the University of Iceland, being held in continuation of the 67 session of the Nordic Council in Reykjavik. Themes for this year's meeting were:\n\nAttending the forum British Prime Minister David Cameron became the first British Premier to officially visit Iceland since it became a republic in 1944, the last being Winston Churchill in August 1941, over 70 years previously.\n\nThe 2016 Northern Future Forum was due to be held in Stavanger on 26–27 October 2016, though was initially stated to be postponed to an unknown future date, following David Cameron's resignation as British Prime Minister after the United Kingdom European Union membership referendum, 2016 and Theresa May's appointment as UK Prime Minister. Themes for the forum were to include:\n\nIn 2018 the Northern Future Forum was held on the 29-30 October at the Oslo Cancer Cluster.\n\nMedia commentary as to wider implications of the Northern Future Forum have been varied, with the Swedish press being quite skeptical during the second meeting in Stockholm. The Local (Sweden) stated that the ‘meeting might have a longer-term strategic purpose, at least for British Prime Minister David Cameron: to forge a long-term alliance between the Northern European countries,’ and writing that there appeared to be a \"risk that David Cameron wants the northern partnership to challenge Brussels.\"\n\nThe pro-EU liberal Dagens Nyheter suggested: ‘Behind the scenes, this “Northern Alliance” will also debate ways to frustrate a “French model” for the European economy.’ A Dagens Nyheter Editorial described the second assembly as a \"\"meeting with risks\",\" seeing it as being potentially divisive within the EU.\n\nThe Baltic Times saw the forum as a mirror to the Mediterranean Union proposed by Nicolas Sarkozy with Nouvelle-Europe comparing it to other groupings of EU members such as the Visegrád Group.\n\nThe Lithuania Tribune noted that the forum is unique as a pan-European meeting in that there are no negotiations, and no conditional agreements reached during the event. Stating that given the contemporary European sovereign-debt crisis the discussion topics at the Stockholm meeting rendered the group a rather peripheral event. However, the article also suggested that the informal nature of the forum raised an antidote to increasing mistrust between European nations in the wake of the eurozone crisis.\n\nThe initial founding of the group in 2011 met with some trepidation among the Russian media, fearing the group could amount to an ‘Arctic branch of NATO’, which may act to ease the accession of neutral Finland and Sweden into the alliance.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "645451", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=645451", "title": "Paper candidate", "text": "Paper candidate\n\nIn a representative democracy, the term paper candidate is often given to a candidate who stands for a political party in an electoral division where the party in question enjoys only low levels of support. Although the candidate has little chance of winning, a major party will normally make an effort to ensure it has its name on the ballot paper in every constituency. In two-party systems, a paper candidate may also be known as token opposition.\n\nPaper candidates may be local party members, or members from neighbouring areas or from central office depending on the laws of the jurisdiction (most U.S. states, for example, require all candidates for office to reside in the district they intend on representing for a certain length of time). The main purpose of fielding paper candidates is to maintain or improve the profile of a political party and, in two-party systems, to provide at least nominal opposition to a seemingly unassailable incumbent. Another potential use for paper candidacy is to allow a candidate who wants off the ballot of another race to do so by running for something else, a race they cannot possibly win (such as Rick Lazio, who lost a Republican primary for New York Governor in 2010 but still had a third-party ballot line; Lazio was nominated for a judicial seat in the Bronx that was so heavily Democratic that he could not have possibly won if he wanted to, and he did not). The paper candidates themselves typically do little or no campaigning and neither incur nor claim any expenses. There are circumstances where a paper candidate can win election, often when the opposing candidate is unexpectedly embroiled in scandal; for example, then-27-year-old American Chris Smith, who ran as a token opponent to New Jersey congressman Frank Thompson in 1978 and 1980, won the latter contest after Thompson was embroiled in the Abscam scandal.\n\nIn Britain, paper candidates are commonly fielded in different locations by all the major parties in both local and national elections.\n\nA dummy candidate is similar to a paper candidate in that both types do not intend to win their race; however, they differ in that a dummy candidate typically has an ulterior motive for being in the race, such as to dishonestly divert votes away from more legitimate candidates or to take advantage of benefits afforded to political candidates. Another related concept is the stalking horse candidate, a junior or little-known politician who challenges an incumbent to test the support for a more serious challenge from someone else.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, major parties often find it difficult to field a full list of candidates for all council seats up for election, especially in the case of councils with \"all-up\" elections. Parties find it desirable to persuade people to stand as paper candidates so that:\n\n\nIn Britain, being nominated as a local election candidate simply involves signing some forms, with no deposit required. A paper candidate will often do no campaigning at all and so be able to submit a zero return of election expenses, simplifying the paperwork for the election agent.\n\nSome paper candidates stand in order to help their party but do not wish to be elected to the post in question. In fact, some paper candidates only agree to stand after receiving assurances that there is no \"risk\" of them getting elected. Following the Scottish National Party's landslide in Scotland in the 2015 general election, when they went from 6 to 56 seats, it was reported that some candidates were so surprised at winning they considered resigning immediately after the election.\n\nOne main disadvantage to fielding paper candidates in an electoral system like the UK's is that unsavoury details about one candidate's past tend to be more damaging to a party's image across the country, no matter what that candidate's chances of election actually are. Therefore, paper candidates for major parties in Britain are almost as heavily vetted as candidates who are expected to win their seats.\n\nIn Canada, paper candidates may exist at both the federal and provincial / territorial levels. As in Great Britain, they most commonly exist to allow the main political parties to field candidates in as many constituencies as possible. From 2004 to 2011, parties at the federal level had a financial incentive to draw as many votes as possible due to a per-vote subsidy, paid to all parties with at least 2% of the total popular vote regardless of the number of seats actually won. This subsidy, enacted under the Liberals, was fully phased out in 2015 under the Conservatives.\n\nAlternatively, paper candidates might be used if the party is not seriously contesting the election but must run candidates so it can either get registered or stay registered for some other purpose. An example of this scenario in action is found in Saskatchewan, where the \"dormant\" Progressive Conservatives continued to run at least ten candidates in the province's general elections until the relevant law was amended, to keep its registration with Elections Saskatchewan (and to avoid losing control of what is believed to be a substantial amount of money). (In Saskatchewan's case, candidates affiliated with the national Conservative Party typically run under the banner of the Saskatchewan Party in provincial elections.)\n\nAn extreme version of a paper candidate, is a \"Name on Ballot\", often referred to by the acronym \"nob\". Many NoBs will only put up campaign signs, and some do not even do that. In most cases, the only requirement is that the candidate show up at the returning officer's headquarters for a few moments to take an oath and pay the required nomination deposit. In Alberta candidates don't even need to show up to talk to a returning officer, as long as someone on behalf of the party drops off the requisite paperwork and funds. In many smaller parties, such as the Prince Edward Island New Democrats, a majority of the party's candidates in any given election are NoBs. The term is often worn as a badge of pride in one's loyalty to the party. PEI New Democrat Dr. Bob Perry, who has been a NoB many times in the past, often calls himself \"Dr. NoB\" at election time.\n\nPaper candidates (\"poteau\" in Canadian French, a term meaning that the candidate will only be seen on posters on poles), particularly of the name-on-ballot variety, can sometimes provide unwanted attention for the candidate's party, particularly if they become viable prospects for election. For example, in the 2011 federal election, a sudden increase in opinion-poll support, particularly in Quebec, for the New Democratic Party – which historically has had a minimal presence in that province – led to greater scrutiny of some of that party's lower-profile Quebec candidates — one of whom, Ruth Ellen Brosseau, won even though she had never been in her riding and spoke its dominant language poorly. Notably, however, Brosseau successfully shook off the label by the time of the 2015 election, having become recognized as a hard-working MP who had built a significant base of popularity in her district.\n\nThe Progressive Conservative Party also had a number of paper candidates who won election in the party's historic landslide victory in the 1984 election.\n"}
{"id": "30284863", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30284863", "title": "Parliamentary committees of the States General of the Netherlands", "text": "Parliamentary committees of the States General of the Netherlands\n\nThe following is a list of committees (\"\") in the States General of the Netherlands.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7168086", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7168086", "title": "Pax Ottomana", "text": "Pax Ottomana\n\nIn historiography, the Pax Ottomana (literally \"the Ottoman Peace\") or Pax Ottomanica \nis the economic and social stability attained in the conquered provinces of the Ottoman Empire, which, at the height of the Empire's power during the 16th and 17th centuries, applied to lands in the Balkans, Anatolia, the Middle East, North Africa and the Caucasus.\n\nThe term is preferred in particular by historians and writers who hold a positive view of Ottoman rule to underline the positive impact of Ottoman rule on the conquered regions. They compare it favourably with instability experienced before the Ottoman conquest and with the period after World War I, when only Asia Minor and Eastern Thrace remained under Turkish rule.\nThe term is derived by analogy from the more common \"Pax Romana\", \"the Roman Peace\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24110", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24110", "title": "President", "text": "President\n\nThe president is a common title for the head of state in most republics. In politics, president is a title given to leaders of republican states.\n\nThe functions exercised by a president vary according to the form of government. In parliamentary republics, they are limited to those of the head of state, and are thus largely ceremonial. In presidential and semi-presidential republics, the role of the president is more prominent, encompassing also (in most cases) the functions of the head of government. In authoritarian regimes, a dictator or leader of a one-party state may also be called a president.\n\nThe title \"president\" is derived from the Latin \"prae-\" \"before\" + \"sedere\" \"to sit.\" As such, it originally designated the officer who presides over or \"sits before\" a gathering and ensures that debate is conducted according to the rules of order (\"see also\" chairman and speaker), but today it most commonly refers to an executive official in any social organization. Early examples are from the universities of Oxford and Cambridge (from 1464) and the founding President of the Royal Society William Brouncker in 1660. This usage survives today in the title of such offices as \"President of the Board of Trade\" and \"Lord President of the Council\" in the United Kingdom, as well as \"President of the Senate\" in the United States (one of the roles constitutionally assigned to the vice president). The officiating priest at certain Anglican religious services, too, is sometimes called the \"president\" in this sense. However, the most common modern usage is as the title of a head of state in a republic.\n\nIn pre-revolutionary France, the president of a \"Parlement\" evolved into a powerful magistrate, a member of the so-called \"noblesse de robe\" (\"nobility of the gown\"), with considerable judicial as well as administrative authority. The name referred to his primary role of presiding over trials and other hearings. In the 17th and 18th centuries, seats in the \"Parlements,\" including presidencies, became effectively hereditary, since the holder of the office could ensure that it would pass to an heir by paying the crown a special tax known as the \"paulette\". The post of \"first president\" (\"premier président\"), however, could only be held by the King's nominees. The \"Parlements\" were abolished by the French Revolution. In modern France the chief judge of a court is known as its president (\"président de la cour\").\n\nThe first usage of the word \"president\" to denote the highest official in a government was during the Commonwealth of England. After the abolition of the monarchy the English Council of State, whose members were elected by the House of Commons, became the executive government of the Commonwealth. The Council of State was the successor of the Privy Council, which had previously been headed by the Lord President; its successor the Council of State was also headed by a Lord President, the first of which was John Bradshaw. However, the Lord President alone was not head of state, because that office was vested in the council as a whole.\n\nThe modern usage of the term \"president\" to designate a single person who is the head of state of a republic can be traced directly to the United States Constitution of 1787, which created the office of President of the United States. Previous American governments had included \"presidents\" (such as the president of the Continental Congress or the president of the Massachusetts Provincial Congress), but these were presiding officers in the older sense, with no executive authority. It has been suggested that the executive use of the term was borrowed from early American colleges and universities, which were usually headed by a \"president.\" British universities were headed by an official called the \"Chancellor\" (typically a ceremonial position) while the chief administrator held the title of \"Vice-Chancellor\". But America's first institutions of higher learning (such as Harvard University and Yale University) didn't resemble a full-sized university so much as one of its constituent colleges. A number of colleges at Cambridge University featured an official called the \"president\". The head, for instance, of Magdalene College, Cambridge was called the \"master\" and his second the \"president.\" The first president of Harvard, Henry Dunster, had been educated at Magdalene. Some have speculated that he borrowed the term out of a sense of humility, considering himself only a temporary place-holder. The presiding official of Yale College, originally a \"rector\" (after the usage of continental European universities), became \"president\" in 1745.\n\nA common style of address for presidents, \"Mr/Mrs. President,\" is borrowed from British Parliamentary tradition, in which the presiding Speaker of the House of Commons is referred to as \"Mr/Mrs. Speaker.\" Coincidentally, this usage resembles the older French custom of referring to the president of a \"parlement\" as \"\"Monsieur/Madame le Président\", a form of address that in modern France applies to both the President of the Republic and to chief judges. Similarly, the Speaker of the House of Commons of Canada is addressed by francophone parliamentarians as \"Monsieur/Madame le/la Président(e)\"\". In Pierre Choderlos de Laclos's novel \"Les Liaisons Dangereuses\" of 1782, the character identified as \"Madame la Présidente de Tourvel\" (\"Madam President of Tourvel\") is the wife of a magistrate in a \"parlement\". The fictional name Tourvel refers not to the \"parlement\" in which the magistrate sits, but rather, in imitation of an aristocratic title, to his private estate.\n\nOnce the United States adopted the title of \"president\" for its republican head of state, many other nations followed suit. Haiti became the first presidential republic in Latin America when Henri Christophe assumed the title in 1807. Almost all of the American nations that became independent from Spain in the early 1810s and 1820s chose a US-style president as their chief executive. The first European president was the president of the Italian Republic of 1802, a client state of revolutionary France, in the person of Napoleon Bonaparte. The first African president was the President of Liberia (1848), while the first Asian president was the President of the Republic of China (1912).\n\nIn the twentieth and twenty-first centuries, the powers of presidencies have varied from country to country. The spectrum of power has included presidents-for-life and hereditary presidencies to ceremonial heads of state.\n\nPresidents in the countries with a democratic or representative form of government are usually elected for a specified period of time and in some cases may be re-elected by the same process by which they are appointed, i.e. in many nations, periodic popular elections. The powers vested in such presidents vary considerably. Some presidencies, such as that of Ireland, are largely ceremonial, whereas other systems vest the president with substantive powers such as the appointment and dismissal of prime ministers or cabinets, the power to declare war, and powers of veto on legislation. In many nations the president is also the commander-in-chief of the nation's armed forces, though once again this can range from a ceremonial role to one with considerable authority.\n\nIn almost all states with a presidential system of government, the president exercises the functions of head of state and head of government, i.e. the president directs the executive branch of government. When a President not only is head of state, but also head of government, is this, \"in Europe\" known to be a \"President of Counsel\" from the French Présidente du Conseil, used 1871-1940 and 1944-1958, as the Third and Fourth French Republics. In the United States the President has always been both \"Head of State\" and \"Head of Government\" and has always had the title of President.\n\nPresidents in this system are either \"directly\" elected by popular vote or \"indirectly\" elected by an electoral college or some other democratically elected body.\n\nIn the United States, the President is \"indirectly\" elected by the Electoral College made up of electors chosen by voters in the presidential election. In most states of the United States, each elector is committed to voting for a specified candidate determined by the popular vote in each state, so that the people, in voting for each elector, are in effect voting for the candidate. However, for various reasons the numbers of electors in favour of each candidate are unlikely to be proportional to the popular vote. Thus, in five close United States elections (1824, 1876, 1888, 2000, and 2016), the candidate with the most popular votes still lost the election.\n\nIn Mexico, the president is \"directly\" elected for a six-year term by popular vote. The candidate who wins the most votes is elected president even without an absolute majority. The president may never get another term. The 2006 Mexican elections had a fierce competition, the electoral results showed a minimal difference between the two most voted candidates and such difference was just about the 0.58% of the total vote. The Federal Electoral Tribunal declared an elected president after a controversial post-electoral process.\n\nIn Brazil, the president is \"directly\" elected for a four-year term by popular vote. A candidate has to have more than 50% of the valid votes. If no candidates achieve a majority of the votes, there is a runoff election between the two candidates with most votes. Again, a candidate needs a majority of the vote to be elected. In Brazil, a president cannot be elected to more than two consecutive terms, but there is no limit on the number of terms a president can serve.\n\nMany South American, Central American, African and some Asian nations follow the presidential model.\n\nA second system is the semi-presidential system, also known as the French model. In this system, as in the parliamentary system, there are both a president and a prime minister; but unlike the parliamentary system, the president may have significant day-to-day power. For example, in France, when their party controls the majority of seats in the National Assembly, the president can operate closely with the parliament and prime minister, and work towards a common agenda. When the National Assembly is controlled by their opponents, however, the president can find themselves marginalized with the opposition party prime minister exercising most of the power. Though the prime minister remains an appointee of the president, the president must obey the rules of parliament, and select a leader from the house's majority holding party. Thus, sometimes the president and prime minister can be allies, sometimes rivals; the latter situation is known in France as cohabitation. Variants of the French semi-presidential system, developed at the beginning of the Fifth Republic by Charles de Gaulle, are used in France, Portugal, Romania, Taiwan, Sri Lanka and several post-colonial countries which have emulated the French model. In Finland, although the 2000 constitution moved towards a ceremonial presidency, the system is still formally semi-presidential, with the President of Finland retaining e.g. foreign policy and appointment powers. \nThe parliamentary republic, is a parliamentary system in which the presidency is largely ceremonial with either \"de facto\" or no significant executive authority (such as the President of Austria) or \"de jure\" no significant executive power (such as the President of Ireland), and the executive powers rests with the Prime Minister who automatically assumes the post as head of a majority party or coalition, but takes oath of office administered by the president. However, the president is head of the civil service, commander in chief of the armed forces and in some cases can dissolve parliament. Countries using this system include Austria, Armenia, Albania, Bangladesh, Czech Republic, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, India, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Malta, Pakistan, Singapore.\n\nA variation of the parliamentary republic is a system with an executive president in which the president is the head of state and the government but unlike a presidential system, is elected by and accountable to a parliament, and referred to as president. Countries using this system include Botswana, South Africa and Suriname.\n\nOnly a tiny minority of modern republics do not have a single head of state. Some examples of this are:\n\nIn dictatorships, the title of president is frequently taken by self-appointed or military-backed leaders. Such is the case in many states: Idi Amin in Uganda, Mobutu Sese Seko in Zaire, Ferdinand Marcos in Philippines and Saddam Hussein in Iraq are some examples. Other presidents in authoritarian states have wielded only symbolic or no power such as Craveiro Lopes in Portugal and Joaquín Balaguer under the \"Trujillo Era\" of the Dominican Republic.\n\nPresident for Life is a title assumed by some dictators to try to ensure that their authority or legitimacy is never questioned. Ironically, most leaders who proclaim themselves President for Life do not in fact successfully serve a life term. On the other hand, presidents like Alexandre Pétion, Rafael Carrera, Josip Broz Tito and François Duvalier died in office. Kim Il-sung was named Eternal President of the Republic after his death.\n\nIn ancient Rome, Lucius Cornelius Sulla appointed himself in 82 BC to an entirely new office, \"dictator rei publicae constituendae causa\" (\"dictator for the making of laws and for the settling of the constitution\"), which was functionally identical to the dictatorate \"rei gerundae causa\" (\"for the matter to be done,\" e.g., a military command against a specific enemy) except that it lacked any set time limit, although Sulla held this office for over two years before he voluntarily abdicated and retired from public life.\n\nThe second well-known incident of a leader extending his term indefinitely was Roman dictator Julius Caesar, who made himself \"Perpetual Dictator\" (commonly mistranslated as 'Dictator-for-life') in 45 BC. His actions would later be mimicked by the French leader Napoleon Bonaparte who was appointed \"First Consul for life\" in 1802 and five years later, the French senate proclaimed him emperor (a monarchical title).\n\nSeveral presidents have ruled until their death, but they have not proclaimed themselves as President for Life. For instance, Nicolae Ceauşescu of Romania, who ruled until his execution (see Romanian Revolution).\n\nAs the country's head of state, in most countries the president is entitled to certain perquisites, and may have a prestigious residence, often a lavish mansion or palace, sometimes more than one (e.g. summer and winter residences, or a country retreat) Customary symbols of office may include an official uniform, decorations, a presidential seal, coat of arms, flag and other visible accessories, as well as military honours such as gun salutes, ruffles and flourishes, and a presidential guard. A common presidential symbol is the presidential sash worn most often by presidents in Latin America and Africa as a symbol of the continuity of the office.\n\nUnited Nations member countries in columns, other entities at the beginning:\n\n\nSome countries with parliamentary systems use a term meaning/translating as \"president\" (in some languages indistinguishable from chairman) for the head of parliamentary government, often as President of the Government, President of the Council of Ministers or President of the Executive Council.\n\nHowever, such an official is explicitly not the president of the \"country\". Rather, he/she is called a president in an older sense of the word, to denote the fact that he/she heads the \"cabinet\". A separate head of state generally exists in their country that instead serves as the president or monarch of the country.\n\nThus, such officials are really premiers, and to avoid confusion are often described simply as 'prime minister' when being mentioned internationally.\n\nThere are several examples for this kind of presidency:\n\n\"President\" can also be the title of the chief executive at a lower administrative level, such as the parish presidents of the parishes of the U.S. state of Louisiana, the presiding member of city council for villages in the U.S. state of Illinois, or the municipal presidents of Mexico's municipalities. Perhaps the best known sub-national presidents are the borough presidents of the Five Boroughs of New York City.\n\nIn Poland the \"President of the City\" () is the executive authority of the municipality elected in direct elections, the equivalent of the mayor. The Office of the President (Mayor) is also found in Germany and Switzerland.\n\nGovernors of ethnic republics in the Russian Federation used to have the title of President, occasionally alongside other, secondary titles such as \"Chairman of the Government\" (also used by Prime Minister of Russia). This likely reflects the origin of Russian republics as homelands for various ethnic groups: while all federal subjects of Russia are currently \"de jure\" equal, their predecessors, the ASSRs, used to enjoy more privileges than the ordinary krais and oblasts of the RSFSR (such as greater representation in the Soviet of Nationalities). Thus, the ASSRs and their eventual successors would have more in common with nation-states than with ordinary administrative divisions, at least in spirit, and would choose titles accordingly.\n\nOver the course of the 2010s the presidents of Russian republics would progressively change their title to that of Head (), a proposition suggested by the President of Chechnya Ramzan Kadyrov and later made law by the Parliament of Russia and President Dmitriy Medvedev in 2010. Despite this, however, Presidents of Tatarstan would reject this change and, as of 2017, retain their title in defiance of Russian law. The new title did not result in any changes in the powers wielded by the governors.\n\nThe Lord President of the Council is one of the Great Officers of State in England who presides over meetings of British Privy Council; the Cabinet headed by the Prime Minister is technically a committee of the Council, and all decisions of the Cabinet are formally approved through Orders in Council. Although the Lord President is a member of the Cabinet, the position is largely a ceremonial one and is traditionally given to either the Leader of the House of Commons or the Leader of the House of Lords.\n\nHistorically the President of the Board of Trade was a cabinet member.\n\nIn Alderney, the elected head of government is called the President of the States of Alderney.\n\nIn the Isle of Man, there is a President of Tynwald.\n\nIn Spain, the executive leaders of the autonomous communities (regions) are called presidents. In each community, they can be called \"Presidente de la Comunidad\" or \"Presidente del Consejo\" among others. They are elected by their respective regional assemblies and have similar powers to a state president or governor.\n\nBelow a president, there can be a number of or \"vice presidents\" (or occasionally \"deputy presidents\") and sometimes several \"assistant presidents\" or \"assistant vice presidents\", depending on the organisation and its size. These posts do not hold the same power but more of a subordinate position to the president. However, power can be transferred in special circumstances to the deputy or vice president. Normally vice presidents hold some power and special responsibilities below that of the president. The difference between vice/deputy presidents and assistant/associate vice presidents is the former are legally allowed to run an organisation, exercising the same powers (as well as being second in command) whereas the latter are not.\n\nIn some countries the speaker of their unicameral legislatures, or of one or both houses of bicameral legislatures, the speakers have the title of president of \"the body\", as in the case of Spain, where the Speaker of the Congress is the President of the Congress of Deputies and the Speaker of the Senate is the President of the Senate.\n\nIn French legal terminology, the president of a court consisting of multiple judges is the foremost judge; he chairs the meeting of the court and directs the debates (and this thus addressed as \"Mrs President\", \"Madame la Présidente\", Mr President\", or \"Monsieur le Président\". In general, a court comprises several chambers, each with its own president; thus the most senior of these is called the \"first president\" (as in: \"the First President of the Court of Cassation is the most senior judge in France\"). Similarly in English legal practice the most senior judge in each division uses this title (e.g. President of the Family Division, President of the Court of Appeal).\n\nIn the Spanish Judiciary, the leader of a court of multiples judges is called President of the Court. The same happens with the different bodies of the Spanish judicial system, where we can find a President of the Supreme Court, a President of the National Court and Presidents in the Regional High Courts of Justice and in the Provincial Courts. The body that rules over the Judiciary in Spain is the General Council of the Judiciary, and its president is the President of the Supreme Court, which is normally called \"President of the Supreme Court and of the GCJ\".\n\nThe Constitutional Court is not part of the Judiciary, but the leader of it is called President of the Constitutional Court.\n\nIn the recently established Supreme Court of the United Kingdom, the most senior judge is called the President of the Supreme Court. The Lady/Lord President of the Court of Session is head of the judiciary in Scotland, and presiding judge (and Senator) of the College of Justice and Court of Session, as well as being Lady/Lord Justice General of Scotland and head of the High Court of Justiciary, the offices having been combined in 1784.\n\n\nHead of state:\n\nOther head of government:\n"}
{"id": "10643752", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10643752", "title": "Real estate license", "text": "Real estate license\n\nReal estate licenses, authorizations issued by state governments, give agents and brokers the legal ability to represent a home seller or buyer in the process of buying or selling real estate. Real estate agents and real estate brokers are required to be licensed when conducting real estate transactions in the United States and many other countries.\nThrough a complicated arrangement, the National Association of Realtors (NAR), a trade and lobbying group for agents and brokers, sets policies for most of the multiple listing services. As the Internet gained widespread use in the late 1990s, NAR created regulations allowing \"Information Data Exchanges\" (or \"Internet Data Exchanges\") \"(IDX)\" whereby brokers would allow a portion of their data, such as listings of homes for sale, to be seen online via brokers' or agents' websites.\n\nThe association attempted to limit online access to some or all of that data, particularly by brokers operating solely on the Internet. In 2005, the Department of Justice brought an antitrust lawsuit against the NAR trade group. The complaint accused the association of unfairly limiting access to the multiple listing service (MLS), which effectively prevented online brokerages from competing with traditional brick-and-mortar offices. The Justice Department accused the NAR of conspiring to restrain trade. \n\nSome U.S. states have reciprocity agreements in place allowing licensees from other states to become licensed in that state. Details of each reciprocal agreement vary from state to state. Some states have education requirements that must be met by the agent while others require only that the agent fill out a reciprocal license application with the State.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19371814", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19371814", "title": "Redistribution (election)", "text": "Redistribution (election)\n\nRedistribution is the process, used in many Commonwealth countries, by which electoral districts are added, removed, or otherwise changed. Redistribution is a form of boundary delimitation that changes electoral district boundaries, usually in response to periodic census results. Redistribution is required by law or constitution at least every decade in most representative democracy systems that use first-past-the-post or similar electoral systems to prevent geographic malapportionment. The act of manipulation of electoral districts to favour a candidate or party is called gerrymandering.\n\nIn Australia, redistributions are carried out by independent and non-partisan commissioners in the Commonwealth, and in each state or territory. The various electoral acts require the population of each seat to be equal, within certain strictly limited variations. The longest period between two redistributions can be no greater than seven years. Many other triggers can force redistribution before the chronological limit is reached. The redistribution is drafted by civil servants.\n\nIn Canada, the constitution mandates that redistribution occur \"on the completion of each decennial census.\" District boundaries are based on electoral quotients, with some exceptions. When the census indicates that a population change has occurred, an independent boundary commission issues a report of recommended changes. Changes are only made if passed into law—by Parliament for national redistribution, by the provincial legislature for provincial redistribution.\n\nIndia has an established process to redistribute its legislative districts. Redistributions are approved by political appointees to the Boundary Commission of India.\n\nThe Constitution of Ireland states that general elections to the Dáil (lower house) must use the single transferable vote (STV), that each Dáil constituency must return at least three members (TDs), that boundaries must be revised at least every twelve years, and that the ratio of TDs to inhabitants (not voters or citizens) be between 20,000 and 30,000 on average and \"so far as it is practicable\" equal between constituencies. are passed by the Oireachtas to revise boundaries in light of the most recent census. In constituencies for the next general election, the 2016 population per TD averages 29,762, varying from 28,199 in Dublin North-West to 31,270 in Dún Laoghaire. Since 1977, an independent body (since 1997 a permanent Constituency Commission) recommends boundaries, which the Oireachtas usually accepts. The terms of reference of the Commission have set five seats as the maximum and discourage constituencies crossing county boundaries. A separate Local Electoral Area Boundary Committee fulfils a similar function for Local Electoral Area boundaries. A proposed Electoral Commission would replace both the Constituency Commission and the Local Electoral Area Boundary Committee. \n\nBefore 1977, boundary drawing was often partisan in favour of the government of the day. The Electoral (Amendment) Act 1959 was struck out in 1961 by the Supreme Court as being repugnant to the Constitution because of excessive malapportionment. The replacement Electoral (Amendment) Act 1961 relied on manipulating district size The Supreme Court allowed the 1961 act, ruling that the Oireachtas had wide latitude to decide what degree of divergence was \"practicable\" and what factors could be considered, but reserved the right to judicial review of proposed boundaries. A 1968 proposal rejected by referendum would have specified one-sixth as the maximum constituency divergence from the average population per TD. Another proposal, rejected simultaneously, would have established a constituency commission (ancillary to replacing STV with first-past-the-post voting). The Electoral (Amendment) Act 1974 attempted a manipulation similar to the 1961 act, but backfired when a larger than expected swing created a tipping point favouring the opposition in 1977. There was a lacuna after the publication of the 2016 census results in which the Electoral (Amendment) (Dáil Constituencies) Act 2013 was in force but its 158 seats breached the 30,000 population average; jurists wondered whether the courts would have permitted a general election in the interim before the Electoral (Amendment) (Dáil Constituencies) Act 2017 resolved the issue.\n\nJapan does not have an established process to redistribute its legislative districts. The frequency of redistributions is irregular and not triggered a particular event. Redistributions are approved by the national legislature.\n\nNew Zealand has a fixed process to determine how its legislative districts are redistributed. Redistribution in New Zealand happens every five years following the census.\n\nIn the Philippines, redistricting is carried out by Congress after every decennial census is published. However, Congress has never passed a general redistricting act, and instead redistricts provinces or cities piecemeal, or creates new provinces or cities with legislative districts. The last general redistricting law was via the ordinance in the 1987 constitution, which was based from the 1980 census. The creation of a new province or city needs the approval of the public via a plebiscite, while piecemeal redistricting does not need a plebiscite.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, there are four Boundary Commissions (one each for England, Scotland, Wales, and Northern Ireland) responsible for reviewing the boundaries of Parliamentary constituencies. Members of Boundary Commissions are political appointees.\n\nIn the United States, redistribution occurs after each decennial census. Most states' legislative district redistributions are approved by the state legislature. Supreme Court rulings (such as the one man, one vote principle) require that legislative districts have roughly equal populations.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2529990", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2529990", "title": "Reprivatization", "text": "Reprivatization\n\nReprivatization refers to the process of restoring to its former owners properties seized by a government, or to the process of compensating previously uncompensated former owners. This is often a component of larger privatization schemes. The term is most often used in the connection with privatization in former Soviet Bloc countries or in reference to settlements concerning the property of murdered or displaced European Jews.\nThe difference between reprivatization and privatization is that only state (nationwide) property can become the subject of the transaction, but not municipal property. The economic content of these concepts also has differences: the privatized property is obtained due to the costs of the state, but the reprivatized property previously belonged to individuals who received income from its exploitation, they also created it.\n\nReprivatization is often sought by members of the old nobility or their descendants who desire the return of the traditional family home for sentimental and/or financial reasons; by Holocaust survivors, their descendants, or survivors of persons who died in Nazi death camps and whose property was confiscated by the Nazis or by later Communist states and disposed of in various ways; and by corporations or other parties whose property was nationalized. It is very difficult to work out a one-size-fits all regime for property restitution, and it is often pursued on an \"ad hoc\" basis in the courts with varying degrees of success in different jurisdictions.\n\nA significant barrier to reprivatization is created by larger political questions, which vary by country. In Eastern Europe, there is frequently a desire to avoid the inflammation of ethnic tensions and the ostensible reversal of Potsdam conference policies; see Federation of Expellees.\n\nOutstanding reprivatization issues can sometimes be a barrier to foreign investment, as investors are wary of investing in a property to which the title is disputed or faulty.\n\nReprivatization can be caused by the need:\n\nThere are two main forms of reprivatization:\nIn their pure form, both these forms are rare. Most often they are used at the same time, compensating for part of the costs in the form of reimbursement of funds, the rest is provided in kind.\nIn addition, reprivatization can also be accompanied by compensation for material damage (lost profits, downtime). Requirements for reimbursement can be put forward both by the former owner and by the state itself:\n\nMost often, when discussing reprivatization, it turns to the example of Margaret Thatcher. With the coming to power in 1979, the \"Iron Lady\" received the country's economy in a rather deplorable state. Therefore, after a short, tough and, in the end, victorious campaign against the trade unions, she decided to increase the role of the state in the economic system of Great Britain. One of the ways to implement the plan was to choose reprivatization.\n\nLarge-scale reprivatization touched the oil, gas, electronic, aerospace and some other industries. Many enterprises that were in a difficult economic situation (including British Airways, British Petroleum), legally transferred to state ownership and received considerable financial support from it. And all this is only to be transferred to private hands through privatization ten years later.\n\nThe revival of entrepreneurship in the first period after the World War II went on in the eastern lands in several forms. These were the creation of new firms, reprivatization, the organization of joint ventures with the participation of Western capital and former national enterprises. A kind of transitional measure is the decentralization of management within the former combines, as a result of which the former state enterprises begin to act as free producers in the market environment.\nImmediately after the unification of Germany, about 6,000 applications for the redemption of enterprises by their former owners were filed. With full redemption of the household enterprises had the opportunity to obtain a loan from the German Credit Bank under the collateral value of the land plot.\n\nThe history of privatization and nationalization in Spain is the story of the \"nationalization of losses and the privatization of profits.\" In crisis , the government bought up or otherwise nationalized loss-making enterprises, actually saving them from bankruptcy. Later, when for some reason they became profitable and successful companies, the government again sold them to private hands. At the same time, traditionally unprofitable industries, such as, for example, the coal industry, radio and television, railway and shipbuilding companies, remain in the hands of the state.\nAnalysts state that the goals of privatization - to increase budget revenues as much as possible and to increase competition in different markets - are in general contradictory to each other, so it was possible to achieve either one or the other, but not both.\n\nIn France, as in many other European countries, a vast public sector of the economy was formed after the World War II. However, subsequently the country's leadership did not adhere to a unified policy regarding the management of state property and its fate as a whole. Here, in comparison with other developed countries, the most pronounced were the so-called waves of property transformation. The processes of nationalization and privatization consistently succeeded each other, depending on who was in power.\nThe last large-scale nationalization took place in the early 80's. Large commercial banks and many industrial enterprises were nationalized. However, during the reign of President François Mitterrand, the French economy was already experiencing difficulties due to high state participation and a large number of state companies. In connection with this, in the presidency of Jacques Chirac in the late 1990s. processes of privatization of the state enterprises have begun.\n\nUnlike the industrial sector, Poland's agricultural sector remained largely in private hands during the decades of communist rule. Most of the former state farms are now leased to farmer tenants. Lack of credit is hampering efforts to sell former state farmland. Currently, Poland's 2 million private farms occupy 90% of all farmland and account for roughly the same percentage of total agricultural production. These farms are small—8 hectares (ha) on average—and often fragmented. Farms with an area exceeding 15 ha accounted for only 9% of the total number of farms but cover 45% of total agricultural area. Over half of all farming households in Poland produce only for their own needs with little, if any, commercial sales.\nReforms in the more politically sensitive areas of structural reform and land privatisation are still lagging. The parliament has approved a foreign investment law allowing Westerners to purchase businesses and property, to repatriate revenue and profits, and to receive compensation in the event that property is nationalized by a future government. Outside institutions—particularly the IMF—have encouraged Ukraine to quicken the pace and scope of reforms and have threatened to withdraw financial support.\n\nReprivatization in both political and economic terms is noted by the authors of the monograph \"Privatization and Reprivatization in Ukraine after the Orange Revolution\" - proved to be an ineffective way of reviewing the results of privatization in Ukraine. Reprivatization, which was carried out through the courts, proved to be a long and exhausting process. \"The process of reprivatization as a way to review the results of privatization was formed under the influence of the general revolutionary moods of the population and the character of the first government team led by Yulia Tymoshenko, accustomed to an irreconcilable opposition struggle\".\nKryvorizhstal is Ukraine's largest integrated steel company.\n\nIn 2004, the enterprise became an open joint-stock company \"Kryvorozhskiy Mining and Metallurgical Combine\". In the same year, the government of Ukraine allowed a consortium created by the structures of politicians and businessmen Rinat Akhmetov and Victor Pinchuk (son-in-law of President Leonid Kuchma) to privatize the largest steel plant for $ 803 million.\n\nAfter the Tymoshenko government came to power in February 2005, the procedure of judicial return of the plant to state property was launched. On April 22, 2005, the Kiev Economic Court declared illegal the sale of a 93.02% stake in Kryvorizhstal and decided to return them to the state.\n\nOn October 24, 2005, Kryvorizhstal was reprivatized. The world's largest metallurgical company Mittal Steel won the contest. It laid out for a 93.02% stake in Kryvorozhstal OJSC 24.2 billion UAH ($ 4.8 billion).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3507795", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3507795", "title": "Rodobrana", "text": "Rodobrana\n\nRodobrana (literally Home Defense/Nation's Defense) was a Slovak paramilitary organization of the Slovak People's Party. The organization existed, officially, from 1923 to 1927 in Czechoslovakia, when the authorities ordered its dissolution, though many of its members continued to function in other party organizations. It was a predecessor of the Hlinka Guard. According to Beneš decree No. 16/1945 Coll., membership of Rodobrana was punishable by 5-20 years of imprisonment, or life in prison in case of aggravated circumstances.\n"}
{"id": "10420657", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10420657", "title": "Rural housing", "text": "Rural housing\n\nThe lack of affordable housing is one of the most critical issues facing rural communities in the UK. Some of the consequences of this are:\n\nAn integrated approach is therefore key to sustain rural communities.\n\nThe lack of affordable housing in rural areas of the United States continues to be a critical issue and concern. Factors that can affect affordable rents and home ownership opportunities in Rural America include: lower income levels, urban sprawl pushing housing costs up, loss of high paying jobs and lack of access to credit.\n\nThough the American Housing Survey (AHS) \"Homeownership rates increased for virtually all racial and ethnic groups, income groups, regions, and rural and urban areas during the 1990s.\" However, according to the US Housing Market Conditions, 2nd quarter, 2007 report by the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development, \"Housing affordability worsened as sales prices of existing homes increased and mortgage interest rates increased. Housing market performance was weak in the second quarter of 2007, with generally falling production levels and weak existing home sales. The exceptions are the increase in new home sales and the slight increase in housing starts. Inventories of new and existing homes available for sale continue at very high levels, with enough houses available to last nearly 8 months. The home ownership rate declined to 68.2 percent in the second quarter of 2007.\"\n\nPrograms that are addressing the needs of rural housing can be seen through the United States Department of Agriculture’s, Rural Housing Service. Other assistance is available through the Housing Assistance Council which is a non-profit organisation. In the United States, \"the Housing Assistance Council (HAC) has been helping local organizations build affordable homes in rural America since 1971. HAC emphasizes local solutions, empowerment of the poor, reduced dependence, and self-help strategies. HAC assists in the development of both single- and multi-family homes and promotes home-ownership for working low-income rural families through a self-help, \"sweat equity\" construction method. The Housing Assistance Council offers services to public, non-profit, and private organisations throughout the rural United States. HAC also maintains a special focus on high-need groups and regions: Indian country, the Mississippi Delta, farmworkers, the Southwest border colonias, and Appalachia.”\n\nThe United States Department of Agriculture researches and compiles data sources for rural areas of the United States, through the Economic Research Service, as seen in their article, \"One in Four Nonmetro Households are Housing Stressed,” where it indicates that, \"Of the Nation’s 2,000-plus nonmetropolitan (nonmetro) counties, 302 are defined as housing stressed.\" It also states, \"The principal component of housing stress is high housing expenses relative to income...” The United States Department of Agriculture, National Agricultural Library’s, Rural Information Center’s Housing page also provides additional resources for rural housing within the United States and works with rural communities and citizens to assist them in housing information needs.\n\nIn India, rural housing is provided through Indira Awaas Yojana, a welfare program of the Government of India. It was first implemented in 1985 and in the 2011 budget the program was funded in the amount of .\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "417432", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=417432", "title": "Serbian Radical Party", "text": "Serbian Radical Party\n\nThe Serbian Radical Party () is a nationalist political party in Serbia. The party was founded in 1991 by paramilitary leader Vojislav Šešelj. In 2018, Šešelj was convicted of crimes against humanity by the International Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia (ICTY).\n\nŠešelj led the party from its foundation in 1991 until his indictment in 2003, when he voluntary surrendered to the ICTY to defend himself against charges of war crimes and crimes against humanity that he was alleged to have committed during the Croatian War of Independence and the Bosnian War. His deputy president Tomislav Nikolić assumed \"de facto\" leadership of the party until its split in 2008. Nikolić resigned from the SRS over disagreements with Šešelj on the direction of the party and took much of the high-ranking members with him to form the Serbian Progressive Party (SNS). In the Serbian parliamentary election, 2016 the SRS gained 22 seats in the national assembly. The SRS has local party branches in neighboring Montenegro (Party of Serb Radicals), the Republika Srpska (Bosnia and Herzegovina) (SRS \"Dr. Vojislav Šešelj\"), and the Republic of Macedonia.\n\nThe party's core ideology is based on Serbian nationalism and the goal of creating a Greater Serbia. The party is also strongly opposed to European integration (euroscepticism) and globalization, advocating for closer ties with Russia instead. The SRS is extremely critical of the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia (ICTY), where Šešelj was incarcerated from 2003 to 2014. The party regards former general Ratko Mladić and former Republika Srpska president Radovan Karadžić as \"Serbian heroes\".\n\nIn 2007, the party advocated the use of military force to prevent the independence of Kosovo.\n\nUnder Tomislav Nikolić's leadership, however, nationalist rhetoric within the party subsided as Nikolić focused primarily on social issues and the economy. Due to his support for the accession of Serbia to the European Union conflicting with the party's original hardline policy, Nikolić was expelled in 2008. With his supporters breaking apart from the SRS, he founded the Serbian Progressive Party (SNS) which succeeded the SRS as the country's leading party.\n\nThe Serbian Radical Party (SRS) was formed on 23 February 1991 by the merger of Vojislav Šešelj's Serbian Chetnik Movement (SČP) and the National Radical Party (NRS). The SČP had been formed in 1990, although it was denied official registration due to its overt identification with the historical Chetniks. Formation of the new party followed Šešelj's breakaway from the Serbian Renewal Movement (SPO) due to internal quarrels with Vuk Drašković; the SPO having been founded by the merger of Šešelj's former Serbian Freedom Movement and Drašković's faction from the Serbian National Renewal. Šešelj was chosen as the first president of the SRS while Tomislav Nikolić, a member of the NRS, became deputy president. Led by Milošević, the Socialist Party (SPS) contributed greatly to the rise of the SRS through its use of the media. With the SRS allowed to promulgate its ultranationalist views on state television, the SPS could present itself as a comparatively moderate, yet still patriotic party. Šešelj promoted popular notions of an \"international conspiracy against the Serbs,\" the foremost of which involved Germany, the Vatican, the CIA, Italy, Turkey, as well as the centrist Serbian political parties. Such conspiracy theories were also promoted by Milošević-controlled media. In 1991, Šešelj became a Member of Parliament as an independent candidate, and created a belligerent image by engaging in physical fights with opponents of the government.\n\nThe 22.6% of the vote won by the SRS in the 1992 parliamentary election confirmed the party's rapid rise and made it the second largest parliamentary party. Šešelj campaigned for the election on issues such as driving Albanians out of Kosovo to Albania, expelling Muslims from Sandžak, and forcing the Croats out of Vojvodina. Having helped engineer the party's election to parliament, the SPS formed an informal coalition with the SRS, and collaborated on ousting moderate politicians from public office. However, by late 1993 the parties had turned against each other. Milošević saw it necessary to change his policies and distance himself from the SRS in order for his new peacemaking orientation to be taken seriously by the West, as well as to counter the effects of United Nations sanctions against the country. Many socialists also feared competition from the party based on its strong growth record. As discord erupted among the opposition including the SRS, Milošević called new elections in 1993. These cut SRS support almost in half, while the SPS increased its share of the vote from 28% to 38%. Although most people had grown tired of the wars, UN sanctions and the catastrophic economic situation, the SRS had also been subjected to powerful state propaganda and exclusion by the media. Following Milošević's agreement to the Dayton accords in 1995 to bring peace to Bosnia, Šešelj denounced Milošević as \"the worst traitor in Serbian history\", and likened the event to Serbia's greatest defeat since the Battle of Kosovo fought against the Ottoman Empire in 1389.\n\nIn 1995, Šešelj and the SRS joined in a technical coalition with the centrist Democratic Party (DS) and the conservative Democratic Party of Serbia (DSS). This gave Šešelj a degree of democratic legitimacy, although the coalition withered away by the end of the same year. When Šešelj beat the SPS candidate for the 1997 presidential election, despite the contest being declared invalid due to low turnout, he was again brought into the Serbian government. In 1998 the SRS and SPO entered the so-called \"war\" government, and as Deputy Prime Minister, Šešelj passed new information laws and helped launch propaganda offensives against Kosovo Albanians. U.S. officials in turn branded him a \"fascist\", while the U.S. Department of State declared that they would never deal with him. Following the 1999 NATO occupation of Kosovo, Šešelj resigned from government until his party was enticed to re-enter the administration by the SPS. As the party had held posts under Milošević's regime, it was excluded from the Democratic Opposition of Serbia (DOS), and suffered a major defeat in the 2000 parliamentary election when Milošević was ousted.\n\nDuring the Yugoslav Wars some SRS supporters including Šešelj were active in paramilitary units loyal to Milošević, serving as his \"iron fist\" during military campaigns. Milošević's regime at times supported Šešelj and provided him with arms, whilst at others it accused him of war crimes. The SRS was also provided with resources to establish paramilitary volunteer forces such as the White Eagles. As the SRS protested against Milošević's extradition to the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia (ICTY) in 2001, Milošević urged his supporters to vote for the SRS rather than his own SPS. The ICTY also indicted Šešelj, who has been on trial since 2007 following his surrender in 2003. Deputy President Nikolić became the new \"de facto\" SRS leader and presented a more moderate face, with a new approach to international cooperation and a vision of Serbia acting as a \"link between the West and the East.\"\n\nDuring the 2003 parliamentary election, the SRS condemned cooperation with the war crimes tribunal, corruption scandals in government, poor living standards, and slightly moderated its formerly aggressive rhetoric. While it won a clear plurality with 28% of the vote and 82 seats, the party was still viewed as a pariah by its democratic rivals and was thus left in opposition. In the 2007 parliamentary election it won 29% of the vote and 81 seats. The SRS caucus in parliament elected Nikolić as its president and Aleksandar Vučić vice-president. Nikolić was later chosen as parliamentary speaker, supported by the DSS amidst a deadlock in coalition talks. He stepped down just five days later, as the DS and DSS agreed to form a coalition government.\n\nAt the National Assembly's first session on 14 February 2007, politicians voted overwhelmingly to reject the proposal by UN Special Envoy Martti Ahtisaari on the preliminary resolution of the status of Kosovo. New elections were called in 2008 as the DS-DSS coalition collapsed due to EU recognition of Kosovo's declaration of independence. In the 2008 parliamentary election the SRS again won 29% of the vote, and 78 seats, leading to the formation of a DS-SPS-led government coalition. The party also won 17 seats in the Kosovska Mitrovica-based Community Assembly of Kosovo and Metohija consisting of Kosovan Serb municipalities who defied Kosovo's declaration of independence.\n\nAfter disagreements with Šešelj, on 8 September 2008, Nikolić formed the new parliamentary group \"Napred Srbijo!\" (\"Forward Serbia!\") along with a number of other SRS members. Šešelj responded with a letter on 11 September addressed to SRS members, in which he condemned the Nikolić group as \"traitors\" and \"Western puppets\", while calling on SRS members to remain loyal to the ideologies of \"Serbian nationalism, anti-globalism, and Russophilia.\" Nikolić and his group were officially expelled from the SRS the next day, in response to which Nikolić announced that he would form his own party. On 14 September, SRS general secretary Aleksandar Vučić also resigned from the SRS. Nikolić and Vučić then launched the Serbian Progressive Party (SNS) on 21 October of the same year.\n\nFollowing their departure, Dragan Todorović took over as the party's acting leader from Nikolić; however the office of deputy chairman was officially abolished. By April 2011 the SRS had about 7% of support in opinion polls, while the SNS and its coalition partners held about 40%. In the 2012 parliamentary election the Radical Party received only 4.63% of the popular vote, thus failing to cross the 5% threshold to enter parliament for the first time in the party's history.\n\nWith their leader back in Serbia in 2014, the party campaigned for the Parliamentary election of 2016 aiming to restore its presence prior to 2008.\n\nThe Serbian Radical Party maintains ties with the Liberal Democratic Party of Russia and had ties with the French National Front party in the 1990s. The SRS also has minimal ties with the far-right Golden Dawn party in Greece, focusing on religious similarities, and the Forza Nuova party in Italy.\n\nThe party counted Iraq's Saddam Hussein and the Arab Socialist Ba'ath Party as one of its political and financial backers until the 2003 invasion of Iraq, as the parties found common cause in defiance of the United States. Similar sentiment led the party to back Libya's Muammar Gaddafi following the 2011 military intervention in Libya by NATO. Serbia and Libya had maintained good relations since Gaddafi vocally opposed NATO intervention in Serbia in the 1990s, while he also backed Serbia's opposition to Kosovo's independence. The SRS has also expressed support for Syrian president Bashar al-Assad following the Syrian Civil War.\n\nOn 9 March 2016 Šešelj and Zmago Jelinčič, president of the Slovenian National Party, signed an agreement with the intention of bringing their parties closer in terms of partnership and political alliance.\n\nŠešelj was incarcerated at the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia (ICTY) from 2003 to 2014.\nRef:\n\nMajor positions held by Serbian Radical Party members:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44278611", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44278611", "title": "Society for the Education of Africans", "text": "Society for the Education of Africans\n\nThe Society for the Education of Africans was an English abolitionist organisation which provided for the education of the sons of prominent Africans in the first decade of the nineteenth century.\n\nThe Society was led by the Clapham Sect, and founded the African Academy in Clapham in 1799. Soon twenty boys and four girls arrived in Portsmouth from Freetown, Sierra Leone and were placed in the stewardship of Zachary Macaulay. The society also had a significant overlap with the Church Mission Society, which was also founded in 1799, under the name of the Society for Missions to Africa and the East.\n\nThe concept was first formulated by John Campbell who recorded his thoughts of 1796 thus:\n\nCampbell's original plan was to set up the school in Edinburgh, and he proceeded to discuss the matter with various friends there, who approved of it. Then he raised the proposal with various members of the Clapham Sect, receiving approval from William Wilberforce and Henry Thornton. However, when he entered into more details discussion with Charles Grant, Grant recommended the plan be deferred until after the war with France was over. Campbell raised the proposal with Robert Haldane, the evangelical philanthropist, who agreed to fund the scheme.\n"}
{"id": "18521468", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18521468", "title": "Specialist law enforcement agency", "text": "Specialist law enforcement agency\n\nA specialist law enforcement agency is a law enforcement agency which specialises in the types of laws it enforces, or types of activities it undertakes, or geography it enforces laws in, or these in combination.\n\nThe specialisation may be imposed voluntarily by policy, consensus with other agencies, or logistical constraints, or it could be imposed legally by law and jurisdiction, or it is result of the historical evolution of the agency, or combinations thereof.\n\nFor example, some agencies only enforce laws related to taxation or customs. Other agencies can only operate in certain areas, for example government-occupied buildings and land, or on waterways. Some agencies have otherwise unrestricted jurisdiction, but specialise in certain types of operations, for example highway patrols.\n\nSpecialities can include:\n\nSee for a list of specialist agencies.\n\n"}
{"id": "607197", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=607197", "title": "Suppression of Communism Act, 1950", "text": "Suppression of Communism Act, 1950\n\nThe Suppression of Communism Act 44 of 1950 (renamed the Internal Security Act in 1976) was legislation of the national government in South Africa, passed on 26 June 1950 (and coming into effect on 17 July) which formally banned the Communist Party of South Africa and proscribed any party or group subscribing to communism according to a uniquely broad definition of the term.\n\nThe Act defined communism as any scheme aimed at achieving change--whether economic, social, political, or industrial--\"by the promotion of disturbance or disorder\" or any act encouraging \"feelings of hostility between the European and the non-European races...calculated to further [disorder]\". The government could deem any person to be a communist if it found that person's aims to be aligned with these aims. After a nominal two-week appeal period, the person's status as a communist became an unreviewable matter of fact, and subjected the person to being barred from public participation, restricted in movement, or imprisoned. The Act was frequently used to silence critics of racial segregation and apartheid. Justice Frans Rumpff, presiding in the 1952 trial of African National Congress leaders, observed such \"statutory communism\" might have \"nothing to do with communism as it is commonly known.\" \n\nPassage of the Act was facilitated by the involvement of communists in the anti-apartheid movement. The Act facilitated the government suppression of organisations such as the ANC and PAC that advocated for black equal rights. The Suppression of Communism Act forced these groups to go underground with their activism. Because of this act, groups such as uMkhonto we Sizwe, led by Nelson Mandela as a branch of the ANC, did seek financial support from the Communist Party. Most of the Act was repealed in 1982 by the Internal Security Act No 74 and the remainder in 1991.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20370757", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20370757", "title": "Surviving the Century", "text": "Surviving the Century\n\nSurviving the Century: Facing Climate Chaos and Other Global Challenges, edited by Herbert Girardet, is the first major book from the World Future Council, published by Earthscan in 2007. Eight main issues relating to the politics of climate change are covered in the book: countering climate chaos, renewable energy policy, creating sustainable cities, local farming systems, rainforests and climate change, cradle to cradle production systems, an alternative vision for trade and creating a living democracy.\n\n"}
{"id": "27994623", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27994623", "title": "The Hartwell Paper", "text": "The Hartwell Paper\n\nThe Hartwell Paper called for a reorientation of climate policy after the perceived failure in 2009 of the UNFCCC climate conference in Copenhagen. It was a response to the United Nations' Kyoto Protocol, a previous international agreement meant to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. The paper was published in May 2010 by the London School of Economics in cooperation with the University of Oxford. The authors are 14 natural and social scientists from Asia, Europe and North America, including Mike Hulme, Roger A. Pielke (Jr), Nico Stehr and Steve Rayner, who met under the Chatham House Rule.\n\nThe authors saw the 2009 economic crisis as an opportunity to re-evaluate global priorities. They argued that \"decarbonisation will only be achieved successfully as a benefit contingent upon other goals which are politically attractive and relentlessly pragmatic.\"\n\nThey emphasize human dignity as a necessary guiding principle for climate policy: \"To reframe the climate issue around matters of human dignity is not just noble or necessary. It is also likely to be more effective than the approach of framing around human sinfulness – which has failed and will continue to fail.\"\n\nThis principle of human dignity is expanded to three main objectives:\n\n\nTheir ultimate goal is \"to develop non-carbon energy supplies at unsubsidised costs less than those using fossil fuels.\"\n\nThe Hartwell Paper recommends that they are to achieve this goal by introducing low carbon taxes. However, this money is able to be used to develop a CO2 free energy supply.\n\n\"The previous 'Kyoto' model has dangerously narrowed the option space for thinking seriously and realistically about energy and environmental policies. The Hartwell Paper wishes to contribute to a new pragmatism in the policy discourse surrounding climate change. To this end, we gathered at Hartwell House in Buckinghamshire in February 2010 and this paper is the base of our work\".\n\nThe Hartwell Paper argues that, although we should attempt to reduce climate change, we must also prepare to adapt if necessary. According to the authors, the Kyoto principles implied that adaptation to the environment should be seen as a failure to halt climate change. Those at the Hartwell meeting proposed that these strategies; mitigation, and adaptation, should both be employed. This is to keep in mind the dignity of those who would be most affected while simultaneously slowing global warming.\n\nThe following are climate myths presented in the paper:\n\n\nThe authors propose a holistic model of environmental practice. They believe there has been too much emphasis placed on carbon dioxide as if it is our only problematic emission. They state that while the CO2 reduction is central to the plan, smaller changes in a variety of practices and industries are also important.\n\nThe Hartwell Paper has received both praise and criticism. According to The Economist, the Hartwell approach to decarbonisation has been a source of controversy. Because large, rapidly industrializing nations are driven by fossil fuels, the authors claim that slowing this process just isn't politically feasible. \"The Economist\" article argues that Hartwell's \"oblique strategies\" may be more difficult to turn into policy than a more direct attack on carbon dioxide emissions.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17600971", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17600971", "title": "The Political Machine 2008", "text": "The Political Machine 2008\n\nThe Political Machine 2008 is a government simulation game from Stardock and the second game in \"The Political Machine\" series, in which the player leads a campaign to elect the President of the United States. The player accomplishes this goal by traveling from state to state and engaging in a variety of activities to either raise money or raise poll numbers. It is the sequel to \"The Political Machine\" released in 2004. \"The Political Machine 2008\" features new candidates such as Barack Obama and John McCain. The game focuses on much more current issues and the constant need for money.\n\nThe game features three more scenarios, election in the American Civil War, an election taking place in an alternative European Union, and an alien world.\n\nThe developers said that they would add new content into the game before November 4 (the election) and update the issues as they changed in importance. New candidates were also planned once minor bugs were ironed out.\n\n\n\nIt is not possible to run as a third-party or independent candidate.\n\nThe game received \"average\" reviews according to video game review aggregator Metacritic. IT Reviews said that \"the gameplay is sufficiently engrossing and varied to keep your interest\". GameSpy called it \"a really solid 'beer & pretzels' strategy game\". 1UP.com complained that \"with more focus on the real-world conflicts and unpredictable events that plague campaigns, running for office might be a bit less tiresome\".\n\n"}
{"id": "30937484", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30937484", "title": "The Tea Party Goes to Washington", "text": "The Tea Party Goes to Washington\n\nThe Tea Party Goes to Washington is a book by United States Senator Rand Paul of Kentucky. The book, co-written by radio host, columnist, and blogger Jack Hunter, describes the Tea Party movement's impact in the 2010 midterm elections in the United States, and ultimately their impact on the entire political system.\n\nPaul was elected to the United States Senate on November 2, 2010, along with the help of various Tea Party activists across Kentucky, and has strongly embraced the group. Paul considers himself a member of the Tea Party, and has since founded the Tea Party Caucus in the United States Senate, along with several other Senators, including Senators Mike Lee, Jim DeMint and Jerry Moran.\n\nThe book was released on February 22, 2011, and is published by Center Street, a main publishing division of Hachette Book Group USA.\n\nIn a review of the book, historian Thomas Woods wrote:\n\"The Tea Party Goes to Washington\" . . . is a much bolder book than Rand skeptics would have expected, and it is also a strategically clever book . . . To be sure, Rand’s anecdotes from the campaign trail and from his days as a boy growing up in the Paul household are well executed and engaging, rather than cloying and phony as in so many political books. More importantly, Senator Paul is willing to stake out positions—on the Patriot Act, the U.S. Constitution, the federal budget, Austrian economics, and so on—that are not exactly standard fare for a man in his position.\n\n"}
{"id": "13205544", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13205544", "title": "Treaty of Portsmouth (1713)", "text": "Treaty of Portsmouth (1713)\n\nThe Treaty of Portsmouth, signed on July 13, 1713, ended hostilities between Eastern Abenakis with the British provinces of Massachusetts Bay and New Hampshire. The agreement renewed a treaty of 1693 the natives had made with Governor Sir William Phips, two in a series of attempts to establish peace between the Wabanaki Confederacy and colonists after Queen Anne's War.\n\nDuring the War of the Spanish Succession, France began a conflict with England which would extend to their colonies. Called Queen Anne's War in the New World, New France openly fought New England for domination of the region between them, with the French enlisting the Abenaki tribes inhabiting it as allies. Occasionally under French command, Indians attacked numerous English settlements along the Maine coast, including Casco (now Portland), Scarborough, Saco, Wells, York and Berwick, in New Hampshire at Hampton, Dover, Oyster River Plantation (now Durham), and Exeter, and down into Massachusetts at Haverhill, Groton and Deerfield, site of the Deerfield Massacre. Houses were burned, and the inhabitants either killed or abducted to Canada. The Treaty of Utrecht in 1713, however, restored peace between France and England. As part of the agreement, Acadia fell under British sovereignty. When the Indians realised that they could no longer depend on the French for protection, the sachems sought a truce, and proposed a peace conference to be held at Casco. Joseph Dudley, governor of Massachusetts and New Hampshire, agreed to a conference, but chose instead to host it at Portsmouth, New Hampshire, which was protected by the guns of Fort William and Mary. For a more detailed timeline of events leading from first contact to the 1713 treaty, see references and resources.\n\nOn July 11, 1713, Governor Dudley and various dignitaries from New Hampshire and Massachusetts Bay (which then included Maine) met with delegates from Abenaki tribes, including the Amasacontee, Maliseet, Norridgewock, Pennacook, Penobscot and Sokoki. The agreement was read aloud by sworn interpreters to the sachems, eight of whom on July 13 signed with totemic pictographs. Others would do so the following year after similar interpretation at another convention. \"Being sensible of our great offense and folly,\" the Indians agreed to:\n\n\nAt the signing of the Treaty of Portsmouth were also the St John River Maliseet [Wolastoqiyik], Mi'kmaw (Mi'kmaq), and Abenaki [Aln8bak] nations of Acadia. According to a Mi'kmaw History Post-Contact timeline, the treaty ensured they were not to be molested in their lands and were \"to enjoy free liberty for hunting, fishing, fowling, and all other lawful liberties and privileges\". The Wabanaki regarded the Treaty of Portsmouth as the reaffirmation of the Treaty of 1699 at Mare's Point, limiting British settlements to the west of the Kennebec River, while the British also would keep Port Royal (Annapolis Royal). The Mi'kmaq and Maliseet stated that Acadia [Lnue'gati] belonged to them, and that the French King could not give it to the English King, since he did not own it. The British made efforts to win over the Wabanaki by using superior goods and ceremonial presents for the fur trade. They also tried to have the Wabanaki expel French soldiers and priests from their villages, but without much success. The Mi'kmaq did not sign the Treaty of Portsmouth. The British saw the 1713 Treaty of Utrecht and Treaty of Portsmouth as an opportunity to regain the settlements of Saco, Scarborough, and Falmouth, and a new chance to exploit the Wabanaki territories between the Kennebec and St Croix rivers, in violation of the treaty.\n\nThe English failed to fulfil their obligations under the treaty. Massachusetts did not, as promised, establish official trading posts selling cheap goods at honest prices to the Indians. Tribes were forced to continue exchanging their furs with private traders, who were notorious for cheating them. In addition, Indians regarded as threats the British blockhouses being built on their lands, and objected to ongoing encroachment of settlers on lands they claimed. Their discontent was encouraged by Sebastien Rale and other French Jesuit priests embedded with the tribes who promoted New France's interests. In response to what they perceived as British violations of the Treaty of Portsmouth, the Abenakis resumed raids on the encroaching British settlements. Consequently, on July 25, 1722, Governor Samuel Shute declared war against the Eastern Indians in what would be called Father Rale's War. Boundary struggles between New France and New England would continue until the Treaty of Paris in 1763.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17873418", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17873418", "title": "USS Recruit (1917)", "text": "USS Recruit (1917)\n\nUSS \"Recruit, also known as the Landship \"Recruit, was a wooden mockup of a dreadnought battleship constructed by the United States Navy in Manhattan in New York City, as a recruiting tool and training ship during the First World War. Commissioned as if it were a normal vessel of the U.S. Navy and manned by a crew of trainee sailors, \"Recruit\" was located in Union Square from 1917 until the end of the war. In 1920, with the reduced requirements for manning in the post-war Navy, \"Recruit\" was decommissioned and dismantled, having recruited 25,000 sailors into Navy service.\n\nOperating as the U.S. Navy's headquarters for recruiting in the New York City district, \"Recruit\" was a fully rigged battleship, and was operated as a commissioned ship of the U.S. Navy. Under the command of Acting Captain C. F. Pierce and with a complement of thirty-nine bluejackets from the Newport Training Station for crew, \"Recruit\" served as a training ship in addition to being a recruiting office. The Navy also offered public access and tours of the ship, allowing civilians to familiarize themselves with how a Navy warship was operated.\n\nThe accommodations aboard \"Recruit\" included fore and aft examination rooms, full officer's quarters, a wireless station, a heating and ventilation system that was capable of changing the temperature of the air inside the ship ten times within the span of an hour, and cabins for the accommodation of the sailors of its crew.\n\nTwo high cage masts, a conning tower, and a single dummy smokestack matched \"Recruit\"s silhouette to the layout of seagoing U.S. battleships of the time. Three twin turrets contained a total of six wooden versions of guns, providing the ship's 'main battery'. Ten wooden guns in casemates represented the secondary anti-torpedo-boat weaponry of a battleship, while two replicas of one-pounder s completed the ship's 'armament'.\n\nFollowing its completion and commissioning, the Landship \"Recruit\" hosted a variety of different events and receptions intended to bring civilians aboard the ship, the first of which took place on the afternoon of 8 September 1917. Some events were of a patriotic nature in keeping with the wartime spirit, including the presentation and unfurling of a recreated Betsy Ross American flag, while others were purely social events, including dances for New York's socialites.\n\nAfter spending over two years in Union Square, the Landship \"Recruit\" was decommissioned and dismantled, the Navy intending to move it to Coney Island's Luna Park, where it would be maintained as a recruiting depot following its success at its Union Square location; \"Recruit\" struck its colors on 16 March 1920; \"The New York Times\" reported that the \"Landship\" had helped the U.S. Navy recruit 25,000 men into the service—625 times the size of her own crew, and enough to crew twenty-eight battleships. However, the cost of a move to Coney Island proved to exceed the value of the materials used in the vessel, so following its dismantling it was never reassembled, the materials being most likely reused in local projects.\n\n"}
{"id": "53706", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53706", "title": "Wage slavery", "text": "Wage slavery\n\nWage slavery is a term used to draw an analogy between slavery and wage labor by focusing on similarities between owning and renting a person. It is usually used to refer to a situation where a person's livelihood depends on wages or a salary, especially when the dependence is total and immediate.\n\nThe term \"wage slavery\" has been used to criticize exploitation of labour and social stratification, with the former seen primarily as unequal bargaining power between labor and capital (particularly when workers are paid comparatively low wages, e.g. in sweatshops) and the latter as a lack of workers' self-management, fulfilling job choices and leisure in an economy. The criticism of social stratification covers a wider range of employment choices bound by the pressures of a hierarchical society to perform otherwise unfulfilling work that deprives humans of their \"species character\" not only under threat of starvation or poverty, but also of social stigma and status diminution.\n\nSimilarities between wage labor and slavery were noted as early as Cicero in Ancient Rome, such as in \"De Officiis\". With the advent of the Industrial Revolution, thinkers such as Pierre-Joseph Proudhon and Karl Marx elaborated the comparison between wage labor and slavery, while Luddites emphasized the dehumanization brought about by machines. Before the American Civil War, Southern defenders of African American slavery invoked the concept of wage slavery to favorably compare the condition of their slaves to workers in the North. The United States abolished slavery after the Civil War, but labor union activists found the metaphor useful and appropriate. According to Lawrence Glickman, in the Gilded Age \"[r]eferences abounded in the labor press, and it is hard to find a speech by a labor leader without the phrase\".\n\nThe introduction of wage labor in 18th-century Britain was met with resistance, giving rise to the principles of syndicalism. Historically, some labor organizations and individual social activists have espoused workers' self-management or worker cooperatives as possible alternatives to wage labor.\n\nThe view that working for wages is akin to slavery dates back to the ancient world. In ancient Rome, Cicero wrote that \"whoever gives his labor for money sells himself and puts himself in the rank of slaves\".\n\nIn 1763, the French journalist Simon Linguet published an influential description of wage slavery: \n\nThe view that wage work has substantial similarities with chattel slavery was actively put forward in the late 18th and 19th centuries by defenders of chattel slavery (most notably in the Southern states of the United States) and by opponents of capitalism (who were also critics of chattel slavery). Some defenders of slavery, mainly from the Southern slave states, argued that Northern workers were \"free but in name – the slaves of endless toil\" and that their slaves were better off. This contention has been partly corroborated by some modern studies that indicate slaves' material conditions in the 19th century were \"better than what was typically available to free urban laborers at the time\". In this period, Henry David Thoreau wrote that \"[i]t is hard to have a Southern overseer; it is worse to have a Northern one; but worst of all when you are the slave-driver of yourself\".\n\nSome abolitionists in the United States regarded the analogy as spurious. They believed that wage workers were \"neither wronged nor oppressed\". Abraham Lincoln and the Republicans argued that the condition of wage workers was different from slavery as laborers were likely to have the opportunity to work for themselves in the future, achieving self-employment. The abolitionist and former slave Frederick Douglass initially declared \"now I am my own master\", upon taking a paying job. However, later in life he concluded to the contrary, saying \"experience demonstrates that there may be a slavery of wages only a little less galling and crushing in its effects than chattel slavery, and that this slavery of wages must go down with the other\". Douglass went on to speak about these conditions as arising from the unequal bargaining power between the ownership/capitalist class and the non-ownership/laborer class within a compulsory monetary market: \"No more crafty and effective devise for defrauding the southern laborers could be adopted than the one that substitutes orders upon shopkeepers for currency in payment of wages. It has the merit of a show of honesty, while it puts the laborer completely at the mercy of the land-owner and the shopkeeper\".\nSelf-employment became less common as the artisan tradition slowly disappeared in the later part of the 19th century. In 1869, \"The New York Times\" described the system of wage labor as \"a system of slavery as absolute if not as degrading as that which lately prevailed at the South\". E. P. Thompson notes that for British workers at the end of the 18th and beginning of the 19th centuries, the \"gap in status between a 'servant,' a hired wage-laborer subject to the orders and discipline of the master, and an artisan, who might 'come and go' as he pleased, was wide enough for men to shed blood rather than allow themselves to be pushed from one side to the other. And, in the value system of the community, those who resisted degradation were in the right\". A \"Member of the Builders' Union\" in the 1830s argued that the trade unions \"will not only strike for less work, and more wages, but will ultimately abolish wages, become their own masters and work for each other; labor and capital will no longer be separate but will be indissolubly joined together in the hands of workmen and work-women\". This perspective inspired the Grand National Consolidated Trades Union of 1834 which had the \"two-fold purpose of syndicalist unions – the protection of the workers under the existing system and the formation of the nuclei of the future society\" when the unions \"take over the whole industry of the country\". \"Research has shown\", summarises William Lazonick, \"that the 'free-born Englishman' of the eighteenth century – even those who, by force of circumstance, had to submit to agricultural wage labour – tenaciously resisted entry into the capitalist workshop\".\n\nThe use of the term \"wage slave\" by labor organizations may originate from the labor protests of the Lowell Mill Girls in 1836. The imagery of wage slavery was widely used by labor organizations during the mid-19th century to object to the lack of workers' self-management. However, it was gradually replaced by the more neutral term \"wage work\" towards the end of the 19th century as labor organizations shifted their focus to raising wages.\n\nKarl Marx described capitalist society as infringing on individual autonomy because it is based on a materialistic and commodified concept of the body and its liberty (i.e. as something that is sold, rented, or alienated in a class society). According to Friedrich Engels: \n\nCritics of wage work have drawn several similarities between wage work and slavery:\n\nAccording to American anarcho-syndicalist philosopher Noam Chomsky, workers themselves noticed the similarities between chattel and wage slavery. Chomsky noted that the 19th-century Lowell Mill Girls, without any reported knowledge of European Marxism or anarchism, condemned the \"degradation and subordination\" of the newly-emerging industrial system and the \"new spirit of the age: gain wealth, forgetting all but self\", maintaining that \"those who work in the mills should own them\". They expressed their concerns in a protest song during their 1836 strike: <poem>:Oh! isn't it a pity, such a pretty girl as I\n\nDefenses of both wage labor and chattel slavery in the literature have linked the subjection of man to man with the subjection of man to nature – arguing that hierarchy and a social system's particular relations of production represent human nature and are no more coercive than the reality of life itself. According to this narrative, any well-intentioned attempt to fundamentally change the \"status quo\" is naively utopian and will result in more oppressive conditions. Bosses in both of these long-lasting systems argued that their respective systems created a lot of wealth and prosperity. In some sense, both did create jobs, and their investment entailed risk. For example, slave-owners risked losing money by buying chattel slaves who later became ill or died; while bosses risked losing money by hiring workers (wage slaves) to make products that did not sell well on the market. Marginally, both chattel and wage slaves may become bosses; sometimes by working hard. The \"rags to riches\" story occasionally comes to pass in capitalism; the \"slave to master\" story occurred in places like colonial Brazil, where slaves could buy their own freedom and become business owners, self-employed, or slave-owners themselves. Thus critics of the concept of wage slavery do not regard social mobility, or the hard work and risk that it may entail, as a redeeming factor.\n\nAnthropologist David Graeber has noted that historically the first wage-labor contracts we know about – whether in ancient Greece or Rome, or in the Malay or Swahili city-states in the Indian Ocean – were in fact contracts for the rental of chattel slaves (usually the owner would receive a share of the money and the slaves another, with which to maintain their living expenses). According to Graeber, such arrangements were quite common in New World slavery as well, whether in the United States or in Brazil. C. L. R. James (1901-1989) argued that most of the techniques of human organization employed on factory workers during the Industrial Revolution first developed on slave plantations.\nSubsequent work \"traces the innovations of modern management to the slave plantation\".\n\nThe usage of the term \"wage slavery\" shifted to \"wage work\" at the end of the 19th century as groups like the Knights of Labor and American Federation of Labor shifted to a more reformist, trade union ideology instead of worker's self-management. Much of the decline was caused by the rapid increase in manufacturing after the Industrial Revolution and the subsequent dominance of wage labor as a result. Another factor was immigration and demographic changes that led to ethnic tension between the workers.\n\nAs Hallgrimsdottir and Benoit point out: \n\nSome anti-capitalist thinkers claim that the elite maintain wage slavery and a divided working class through their influence over the media and entertainment industry, educational institutions, unjust laws, nationalist and corporate propaganda, pressures and incentives to internalize values serviceable to the power structure, state violence, fear of unemployment, and a historical legacy of exploitation and profit accumulation/transfer under prior systems, which shaped the development of economic theory. Adam Smith noted that employers often conspire together to keep wages low and have the upper hand in conflicts between workers and employers: \n\nThe concept of wage slavery could conceivably be traced back to pre-capitalist figures like Gerrard Winstanley from the radical Christian Diggers movement in England, who wrote in his 1649 pamphlet, \"The New Law of Righteousness\", that there \"shall be no buying or selling, no fairs nor markets, but the whole earth shall be a common treasury for every man\" and \"there shall be none Lord over others, but every one shall be a Lord of himself\".\n\nAristotle stated that \"the citizens must not live a mechanic or a mercantile life (for such a life is ignoble and inimical to virtue), nor yet must those who are to be citizens in the best state be tillers of the soil (for leisure is needed both for the development of virtue and for active participation in politics)\", often paraphrased as \"all paid jobs absorb and degrade the mind\". Cicero wrote in 44 BC that \"vulgar are the means of livelihood of all hired workmen whom we pay for mere manual labour, not for artistic skill; for in their case the very wage they receive is a pledge of their slavery\". Somewhat similar criticisms have also been expressed by some proponents of liberalism, like Silvio Gesell and Thomas Paine; Henry George, who inspired the economic philosophy known as Georgism; and the Distributist school of thought within the Catholic Church.\n\nTo Karl Marx and anarchist thinkers like Mikhail Bakunin and Peter Kropotkin, wage slavery was a class condition in place due to the existence of private property and the state. This class situation rested primarily on:\nAnd secondarily on:\n\nFascist economic policies were more hostile to independent trade unions than modern economies in Europe or the United States. Fascism was more widely accepted in the 1920s and 1930s, and foreign corporate investment (notably from the United States) in Italy and Germany increased after the fascists took power.\n\nFascism has been perceived by some notable critics, like Buenaventura Durruti, to be a last resort weapon of the privileged to ensure the maintenance of wage slavery: \n\nAccording to Noam Chomsky, analysis of the psychological implications of wage slavery goes back to the Enlightenment era. In his 1791 book \"The Limits of State Action\", classical liberal thinker Wilhelm von Humboldt explained how \"whatever does not spring from a man's free choice, or is only the result of instruction and guidance, does not enter into his very nature; he does not perform it with truly human energies, but merely with mechanical exactness\" and so when the laborer works under external control, \"we may admire what he does, but we despise what he is\". Because they explore human authority and obedience, both the Milgram and Stanford experiments have been found useful in the psychological study of wage-based workplace relations.\n\nAccording to research, modern work provides people with a sense of personal and social identity that is tied to:\nThus job loss entails the loss of this identity.\n\nErich Fromm argued that if a person perceives himself as being what he owns, then when that person loses (or even thinks of losing) what he \"owns\" (e.g. the good looks or sharp mind that allow him to sell his labor for high wages) a fear of loss may create anxiety and authoritarian tendencies because that person's sense of identity is threatened. In contrast, when a person's sense of self is based on what he experiences in a state of being (creativity, love, sadness, taste, sight and the like) with a less materialistic regard for what he once had and lost, or may lose, then less authoritarian tendencies prevail. In his view, the state of being flourishes under a worker-managed workplace and economy, whereas self-ownership entails a materialistic notion of self, created to rationalize the lack of worker control that would allow for a state of being.\n\nInvestigative journalist Robert Kuttner analyzed the work of public-health scholars Jeffrey Johnson and Ellen Hall about modern conditions of work and concludes that \"to be in a life situation where one experiences relentless demands by others, over which one has relatively little control, is to be at risk of poor health, physically as well as mentally\". Under wage labor, \"a relatively small elite demands and gets empowerment, self-actualization, autonomy, and other work satisfaction that partially compensate for long hours\" while \"epidemiological data confirm that lower-paid, lower-status workers are more likely to experience the most clinically damaging forms of stress, in part because they have less control over their work\".\n\nWage slavery and the educational system that precedes it \"implies power held by the leader. Without power the leader is inept. The possession of power inevitably leads to corruption ... in spite of ... good intentions ... [Leadership means] power of initiative, this sense of responsibility, the self-respect which comes from expressed manhood, is taken from the men, and consolidated in the leader. The sum of their initiative, their responsibility, their self-respect becomes his ... [and the] order and system he maintains is based upon the suppression of the men, from being independent thinkers into being 'the men' ... In a word, he is compelled to become an autocrat and a foe to democracy\". For the \"leader\", such marginalisation can be beneficial, for a leader \"sees no need for any high level of intelligence in the rank and file, except to applaud his actions. Indeed such intelligence from his point of view, by breeding criticism and opposition, is an obstacle and causes confusion\". Wage slavery \"implies erosion of the human personality ... [because] some men submit to the will of others, arousing in these instincts which predispose them to cruelty and indifference in the face of the suffering of their fellows\".\n\nIn 19th-century discussions of labor relations, it was normally assumed that the threat of starvation forced those without property to work for wages. Proponents of the view that modern forms of employment constitute wage slavery, even when workers appear to have a range of available alternatives, have attributed its perpetuation to a variety of social factors that maintain the hegemony of the employer class.\n\nIn an account of the Lowell Mill Girls, Harriet Hanson Robinson wrote that generously high wages were offered to overcome the degrading nature of the work: \n\nIn his book \"Disciplined Minds\", Jeff Schmidt points out that professionals are trusted to run organizations in the interests of their employers. Because employers cannot be on hand to manage every decision, professionals are trained to \"ensure that each and every detail of their work favors the right interests–or skewers the disfavored ones\" in the absence of overt control: \n\nParecon (participatory economics) theory posits a social class \"between labor and capital\" of higher paid professionals such as \"doctors, lawyers, engineers, managers and others\" who monopolize empowering labor and constitute a class above wage laborers who do mostly \"obedient, rote work\".\n\nThe terms \"employee\" or \"worker\" have often been replaced by \"associate\". This plays up the allegedly voluntary nature of the interaction while playing down the subordinate status of the wage laborer as well as the worker-boss class distinction emphasized by labor movements. Billboards as well as television, Internet and newspaper advertisements consistently show low-wage workers with smiles on their faces, appearing happy.\n\nJob interviews and other data on requirements for lower skilled workers in developed countries – particularly in the growing service sector – indicate that the more workers depend on low wages and the less skilled or desirable their job is, the more employers screen for workers without better employment options and expect them to feign unremunerative motivation. Such screening and feigning may not only contribute to the positive self-image of the employer as someone granting desirable employment, but also signal wage-dependence by indicating the employee's willingness to feign, which in turn may discourage the dissatisfaction normally associated with job-switching or union activity.\n\nAt the same time, employers in the service industry have justified unstable, part-time employment and low wages by playing down the importance of service jobs for the lives of the wage laborers (e.g. just temporary before finding something better, student summer jobs and the like).\n\nIn the early 20th century, \"scientific methods of strikebreaking\" were devised – employing a variety of tactics that emphasized how strikes undermined \"harmony\" and \"Americanism\".\n\nSome social activists objecting to the market system or price system of wage working historically have considered syndicalism, worker cooperatives, workers' self-management and workers' control as possible alternatives to the current wage system.\n\nThe American philosopher John Dewey believed that until \"industrial feudalism\" is replaced by \"industrial democracy\", politics will be \"the shadow cast on society by big business\". Thomas Ferguson has postulated in his investment theory of party competition that the undemocratic nature of economic institutions under capitalism causes elections to become occasions when blocs of investors coalesce and compete to control the state.\n\nNoam Chomsky has argued that political theory tends to blur the 'elite' function of government: \n\nIn this regard, Chomsky has used Bakunin's theories about an \"instinct for freedom\", the militant history of labor movements, Kropotkin's mutual aid evolutionary principle of survival and Marc Hauser's theories supporting an innate and universal moral faculty, to explain the incompatibility of oppression with certain aspects of human nature.\n\nLoyola University philosophy professor John Clark and libertarian socialist philosopher Murray Bookchin have criticized the system of wage labor for encouraging environmental destruction, arguing that a self-managed industrial society would better manage the environment. Like other anarchists, they attribute much of the Industrial Revolution's pollution to the \"hierarchical\" and \"competitive\" economic relations accompanying it.\n\nSome criticize wage slavery on strictly contractual grounds, e.g. David Ellerman and Carole Pateman, arguing that the employment contract is a legal fiction in that it treats human beings juridically as mere tools or inputs by abdicating responsibility and self-determination, which the critics argue are inalienable. As Ellerman points out, \"[t]he employee is legally transformed from being a co-responsible partner to being only an input supplier sharing no legal responsibility for either the input liabilities [costs] or the produced outputs [revenue, profits] of the employer's business\". Such contracts are inherently invalid \"since the person remain[s] a \"de facto\" fully capacitated adult person with only the contractual role of a non-person\" as it is impossible to physically transfer self-determination. As Pateman argues: \n\nIn a modern liberal capitalist society, the employment contract is enforced while the enslavement contract is not; the former being considered valid because of its consensual/non-coercive nature and the latter being considered inherently invalid, consensual or not. The noted economist Paul Samuelson described this discrepancy: \n\nSome advocates of right-libertarianism, among them philosopher Robert Nozick, address this inconsistency in modern societies arguing that a consistently libertarian society would allow and regard as valid consensual/non-coercive enslavement contracts, rejecting the notion of inalienable rights: \n\nOthers like Murray Rothbard allow for the possibility of debt slavery, asserting that a lifetime labour contract can be broken so long as the slave pays appropriate damages: \n\nIn the philosophy of mainstream, neoclassical economics, wage labor is seen as the voluntary sale of one's own time and efforts, just like a carpenter would sell a chair, or a farmer would sell wheat. It is considered neither an antagonistic nor abusive relationship and carries no particular moral implications.\n\nAustrian economics argues that a person is not \"free\" unless they can sell their labor because otherwise that person has no self-ownership and will be owned by a \"third party\" of individuals.\n\nPost-Keynesian economics perceives wage slavery as resulting from inequality of bargaining power between labor and capital, which exists when the economy does not \"allow labor to organize and form a strong countervailing force\".\n\nThe two main forms of socialist economics perceive wage slavery differently:\n\n"}
{"id": "3799790", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3799790", "title": "Weeks Act", "text": "Weeks Act\n\nThe Weeks Act is a federal law (36 Stat. 961) enacted by the United States Congress on March 1, 1911. Introduced by Massachusetts Congressman John W. Weeks and signed into law by President William Howard Taft, the law authorized the US Secretary of Agriculture to \"Examine, locate and recommend for purchase ... such lands within the watersheds of navigable streams as ... may be necessary to the regulation of flow of navigable streams...\" This meant that the federal government would be able to purchase private land if the purchase was deemed necessary to protect rivers' and watersheds' headwaters in the eastern United States. Furthermore, the law allowed for land acquired through this act to be preserved and maintained as national forest territory. Six years earlier, the Transfer Act of 1905 transferred control over the federal forest reserves from the General Land Office of the Department of the Interior to the Department of Agriculture and its Forest Service. Responsibility for land purchased through the Weeks Act was not given to former Chief Forester Gifford Pinchot because he resigned in 1907, with the stipulation that he would only resign if he could appoint his successor. This stipulation led to the Forest Service's tradition of picking a head with forestry knowledge. With the land acquired through the Weeks Act, Pinchot's successor obtained the power to issue permits for water power development on National Forests. The Weeks Act appropriated $9 million to purchase 6 million acres (24,000 km) of land in the eastern United States.\n\nThe Weeks Act also provided measures for more cooperation between federal and state governments in regard to fire control. This legislation was heavily influenced by the fire season of 1910 because it wreaked havoc across the western United States, particularly in Idaho, where 85 people, including 72 firefighters, were killed in fires and more than 3 million acres (12,000 km) of land and roughly 8,000,000,000 board feet (19,000,000 m) of timber were destroyed by fires that year. This year's fire season alone put the US Forest Service $1.1 million in debt.\n\nThe Weeks Act also authorized establishment of the National Forest Reservation Commission to consider and approve purchase of these identified lands. The commission was composed of the secretaries of the Interior, Agriculture, and War (for the Corps of Engineers), as well as two members each from the House and Senate. Jacob Gallinger, who had sponsored the Senate’s version of the bill, was named a member of the initial committee. The Commission would exist from 1911 to 1966.\n\nThe drafting of Weeks Act was originally motivated by the intent to purchase lands in eastern United States, where the federal government owned no large tracts of land devoted to conservation. Later western lands were acquired under the Weeks Act. The Weeks Act was substantially expanded and modified by the Clarke–McNary Act in 1924.\n\nMajor national forests that were formed under the Weeks Act are the Allegheny National Forest, White Mountain National Forest, Green Mountain National Forest, Pisgah National Forest, George Washington National Forest, and Ottawa National Forest. To date, the Weeks Act has protected more than 20 million acres of forestland, which has had a tremendous benefit for ecosystems and society by providing habitat for plants and animals, creating lucrative recreation spots for tourists, and creating economic opportunities for local communities, stimulating the economy.\n\n"}
{"id": "38584352", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38584352", "title": "William Joyce", "text": "William Joyce\n\nWilliam Brooke Joyce (24 April 1906 – 3 January 1946), nicknamed Lord Haw-Haw, was an American-born, Anglo-Irish Fascist politician and Nazi propaganda broadcaster to the United Kingdom during World War II. He took German citizenship in 1940. He was convicted of one count of high treason in 1945 and sentenced to death. The Court of Appeal and the House of Lords upheld his conviction. He was hanged on 3 January 1946, making him the last person to be executed for treason in the United Kingdom. (Theodore Schurch was hanged the following day, but for the crime of treachery rather than treason.)\n\nWilliam Brooke Joyce was born on Herkimer Street in Brooklyn, New York, United States. His father was Michael Francis Joyce (9 December 1866 – 19 February 1941) an Irish Catholic from a family of farmers in Ballinrobe, County Mayo, who had taken United States citizenship on 25 October 1894. His mother was Gertrude Emily Brooke, who although born in Shaw and Crompton, Lancashire, England, was from a well-off Anglican Anglo-Irish family of medical practitioners associated with County Roscommon. \n\nA few years after William's birth, the family returned to Salthill, Galway, permanently. Joyce attended Coláiste Iognáid, a Jesuit school in Galway (from 1915–21). Joyce's mother was strongly Anglocentric and despite tensions with her father for marrying a Roman Catholic, remained staunchly Protestant and Unionist herself, hostile to Irish nationalism. Joyce's father bought up houses and rented some to the Royal Irish Constabulary (RIC).\n\nIt was during the Irish War for Independence that Joyce was recruited by Capt. Patrick William Keating as a courier for British Army intelligence in Galway, then fighting against the Irish Republican Army. He was known to have hung around with Black and Tans at Lenaboy Castle, which reportedly resulted in the Irish Republican Army dispatching a volunteer, Michael Molloy, to murder Joyce on his way home from school in December 1921, although minors were normally excluded from being executed by the IRA, usually being expelled or ostracised. Joyce reputedly survived only because his father had moved his family to another house on a different route. Capt. Keating arranged for William Joyce to be mustered into the Worcester Regiment soon after, taking him out of the dangerous situation in Ireland to Norton Barracks. A few months later he was discharged when it was found out he was underage.\n\nJoyce remained in England and briefly attended King's College School, Wimbledon, on a foreign exchange. His family followed him to England two years later, having backed the losing side in the conflict in Ireland. Joyce had relatives in Birkenhead, Cheshire, whom he visited on a few occasions. He then applied to Birkbeck College of the University of London, where he entered the Officer Training Corps. At Birkbeck, he obtained a first-class honours degree in English. After graduating, he applied for a job in the Foreign Office, but was rejected and took a job as a teacher. He also developed an interest in Fascism, and he worked with (but never joined) the British Fascists of Rotha Lintorn-Orman.\n\nOn 22 October 1924, while stewarding a meeting in support of Jack Lazarus (the Conservative Party candidate for Lambeth North in the general election), Joyce was attacked by Communists and received a deep razor slash that ran across his right cheek. It left a permanent scar which ran from the earlobe to the corner of the mouth. While Joyce often said that his attackers were Jewish, biographer Colin Holmes claims that Joyce's first wife told him in 1992 that \"it wasn't a Jewish Communist who disfigured him ... He was knifed by an Irish woman\".\n\nIn 1932, Joyce joined the British Union of Fascists (BUF) under Sir Oswald Mosley, and swiftly became a leading speaker, praised for his power of oratory. The journalist and novelist Cecil Roberts described a speech given by Joyce:\n\nIn 1934, Joyce was promoted to the BUF's Director of Propaganda, replacing Wilfred Risdon (who had expressed concern to Mosley about the use of the spotlights at the Olympia rally in June) and later appointed deputy leader. As well as being a gifted speaker, Joyce gained the reputation of a savage brawler. His violent rhetoric and willingness to physically confront anti-fascist elements head-on played no small part in further marginalizing the BUF. After the bloody debacle of Olympia, Joyce spearheaded the BUF's policy shift from campaigning for economic revival through corporatism to a focus on antisemitism. He was instrumental in changing the name of the BUF to \"British Union of Fascists and National Socialists\" in 1936 and stood as a party candidate in the 1937 elections to the London County Council. In 1936, Joyce lived for a year in Whitstable, where he owned a radio and electrical shop.\n\nBetween April 1934 and 1937, when Mosley sacked him, Joyce also served as Area Administrative Officer for the BUF West Sussex division. Joyce was supported in this role by Norah Elam as Sussex Women’s Organiser, with her partner Dudley Elam taking on the role of Sub-Branch Officer for Worthing. Under this regime, West Sussex was to become a hub of fascist activity, ranging from hosting Blackshirt summer camps to organising meetings and rallies, lunches, etc. Norah Elam shared many speaking platforms with Joyce and worked on propaganda speeches for him. One particular concern for Joyce was the Government of India Bill (passed in 1935), designed to give a measure of autonomy to India, allowing freedom and the development of limited self-government. Joyce harboured a desire to become Viceroy of India should Mosley ever head a BUF government, and is recorded as describing the backers of the bill as \"feeble\" and \"one loathsome, fetid, purulent, tumid mass of hypocrisy, hiding behind Jewish Dictators\".\n\nJoyce was sacked from his paid position when Mosley drastically reduced the BUF staff shortly after the 1937 elections, after which Joyce promptly formed a breakaway organisation, the National Socialist League. After the departure of Joyce, the BUF turned its focus away from anti-Semitism and towards activism, opposing a war with Nazi Germany. Although Joyce had been deputy leader of the party from 1933 and an effective fighter and orator, Mosley snubbed him in his autobiography and later denounced him as a traitor because of his wartime activities. Unlike Joyce, the Elams did not escape detention under Defence Regulation 18B; both were arrested on the same day as Mosley in May 1940. The relationship between Joyce and Norah Elam was evidence of the strange bedfellows that politics can bring together. Elam's father had been an Irish nationalist, while Joyce had been a Unionist and supporter of the Black and Tans. In later life, Elam reported that although she disliked Joyce, she believed that his execution by the British in 1946 was wrong, stating that he should not have been regarded as a traitor to England because he was not English, but Irish.\n\nIn late August 1939, shortly before war was declared, Joyce and his wife Margaret fled to Germany. Joyce had been tipped off that the British authorities intended to detain him under Defence Regulation 18B. Joyce became a naturalised German citizen in 1940.\n\nIn Berlin, Joyce could not find employment until a chance meeting with fellow Mosleyite Dorothy Eckersley got him an audition at the Rundfunkhaus (\"broadcasting house\"). Eckersley was the former wife or second wife of the Chief Engineer of the British Broadcasting Corporation, Peter Eckersley. Despite having a heavy cold and almost losing his voice, he was recruited immediately for radio announcements and scriptwriting at German radio's English service. William Joyce replaced Wolf Mittler.\n\nThe name \"Lord Haw-Haw of Zeesen\" was coined in 1939 by the pseudonymous \"Daily Express\" radio critic Jonah Barrington, but this referred initially to Wolf Mittler (or possibly Norman Baillie-Stewart). When Joyce became the best-known propaganda broadcaster, the nickname was transferred to him. Joyce's broadcasts initially came from studios in Berlin, later transferring (because of heavy Allied bombing) to Luxembourg and finally to Apen near Hamburg, and were relayed over a network of German-controlled radio stations that included Hamburg, Bremen, Luxembourg, Hilversum, Calais, Oslo, and Zeesen. Joyce also broadcast on and wrote scripts for, the German Büro Concordia organisation, which ran several black propaganda stations, many of which pretended to broadcast illegally from within Britain. His role in writing the scripts increased over time, and the German radio capitalized on his public persona. Initially an anonymous broadcaster, Joyce eventually revealed his real name to his listeners; and he would occasionally be announced as \"William Joyce, otherwise known as Lord Haw-Haw\". Urban legends soon circulated about Lord Haw-Haw, alleging that the broadcaster was well-informed about political and military events to the point of near-omniscience.\n\nAlthough listening to his broadcasts was officially discouraged (but not illegal), many Britons heard the broadcasts. At the height of his influence, in 1940, Joyce had an estimated six million regular and 18 million occasional listeners in the United Kingdom. The broadcasts always began with the announcer's words, \"Germany calling, Germany calling, Germany calling\". These broadcasts urged the British people to surrender and were well known for their jeering, sarcastic and menacing tone. There was also a desire by civilian listeners to hear what the other side was saying since information during wartime was strictly censored.\n\nThe Reich Main Security Office commissioned Joyce to give lectures at the University of Berlin for SS members in the winter of 1941–42 on the topic of \"English fascism and acute questions concerning the British world empire\".\n\nJoyce recorded his final broadcast on 30 April 1945, during the Battle of Berlin. Rambling and audibly drunk, he chided Britain for pursuing the war beyond mere containment of Germany and repeatedly warned of the \"menace\" of the Soviet Union. He signed off with a final defiant \"Heil Hitler and farewell\". There are conflicting accounts as to whether this last programme was actually transmitted, although a recording was found in the Apen studios. The next day Radio Hamburg was seized by British forces, and on 4 May Wynford Vaughan-Thomas used it to make a mock \"Germany Calling\" broadcast denouncing Joyce.\n\nBesides broadcasting, Joyce's duties included writing propaganda for distribution among British prisoners of war, whom he tried to recruit into the British Free Corps. He wrote a book \"Twilight Over England\" promoted by the German Ministry of Propaganda, which unfavourably compared the evils of allegedly Jewish-dominated capitalist Britain with the alleged wonders of National Socialist Germany. Adolf Hitler awarded Joyce the War Merit Cross (First and Second Class) for his broadcasts, although they never met.\n\nOn 5 May 1945, four days after the Allies took Hamburg, CBS war correspondent Bill Downs broadcast a report about the condition of that city using Joyce's microphone. Scripts and the microphone used by Joyce were then seized by soldier Cyril Millwood and have now come to light following Millwood's death.\n\nOn 28 May 1945, Joyce was captured by British forces at Flensburg, near the German border with Denmark, which was the last capital of the Third Reich. Spotting a dishevelled figure while resting from gathering firewood, intelligence soldiers – including a Jewish German, Geoffrey Perry (born Horst Pinschewer), who had left Germany before the war – engaged him in conversation in French and English. After they asked whether he was Joyce, he reached into his pocket (actually reaching for a false passport); believing he was armed, they shot him through the buttocks, resulting in four wounds.\n\nTwo intelligence officers then drove him to a border post and handed him to British military police. Joyce was then taken to London and tried at the Old Bailey on three counts of high treason:\n\"Not guilty\" were the first words from Joyce's mouth in his trial, as noted by Rebecca West in her book \"The Meaning of Treason\" (as noted by Whittaker Chambers in his 1947 review of that book). The only evidence offered that he had begun broadcasting from Germany while his British passport was valid was the testimony of a London police inspector who had questioned him before the war while he was an active member of the British Union of Fascists and claimed to have recognised his voice on a propaganda broadcast in the early weeks of the war (Joyce had previous convictions for assault and riotous assembly in the 1930s). During the processing of the charges Joyce's American nationality came to light, and it seemed that he would have to be acquitted, based upon a lack of jurisdiction; he could not be convicted of betraying a country that was not his own. He was acquitted of the first and second charges. However, the Attorney General, Sir Hartley Shawcross, successfully argued that Joyce's possession of a British passport, even though he had misstated his nationality to get it, entitled him (until it expired) to British diplomatic protection in Germany and therefore he owed allegiance to the King at the time he commenced working for the Germans. It was on this basis that Joyce was convicted of the third charge and sentenced to death on 19 September 1945.\n\nThe historian A.J.P. Taylor remarked, in his book \"English History 1914–1945,\" that \"Technically, Joyce was hanged for making a false statement when applying for a passport, the usual penalty for which is a small fine.\"\n\nHis conviction was upheld by the Court of Appeal on 1 November 1945, and by Lords Jowitt L.C., Macmillan, Wright, Simonds, and Porter – although Porter dissented – of the House of Lords on 13 December 1945.\n\nIn the appeal, Joyce argued that possession of a passport did not entitle him to the protection of the Crown, and therefore did not perpetuate his duty of allegiance once he left the country, but the House rejected this argument. Lord Porter's dissenting opinion assumed that the question as to whether Joyce's duty of allegiance had terminated was a question of fact for the jury to decide, rather than a purely legal question for the judge. Joyce also argued that jurisdiction had been wrongly assumed by the court in electing to try an alien for offences committed in a foreign country. This argument was also rejected, on the basis that a state may exercise such jurisdiction in the interests of its own security. \n\nJoyce's biographer Nigel Farndale suggests on the basis of documents made public for the first time between 2000 and 2005 that Joyce made a deal with his prosecutors not to reveal links he had had to MI5. In return, his wife Margaret, known to radio listeners as \"Lady Haw-Haw\", was spared prosecution for high treason. Of the 32 British renegades and broadcasters caught in Germany at the end of the war, only Margaret Joyce, who died in London in 1972, was not charged with treason.\n\nJoyce went to his death unrepentant: Other sources refer to his having said, \"may the Swastika be raised from the dust\".\n\nJoyce was executed on 3 January 1946 at Wandsworth Prison, aged 39. He was the next to last person to be hanged for a crime other than murder in the United Kingdom. The last was Theodore Schurch, executed for treachery the following day at Pentonville. In both cases the hangman was Albert Pierrepoint. Joyce died \"an Anglican, like his mother, despite a long and friendly correspondence with a Roman Catholic priest who fought hard for William's soul\". The scar on Joyce's face split wide open because of the pressure applied to his head upon his drop from the gallows.\n\nAs was customary for executed criminals, Joyce's remains were buried in an unmarked grave within the walls of HMP Wandsworth. In 1976 they were exhumed and reinterred in the Protestant section of the New Cemetery in Bohermore, Galway, Ireland. A Roman Catholic Tridentine Mass was celebrated at his reburial.\n\nJoyce had two daughters by his first wife, Hazel, who later married Oswald Mosley's bodyguard, Eric Piercey. One daughter, Heather Iandolo (formerly Piercey: stepfather's surname) has spoken publicly of her father.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14681057", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14681057", "title": "Yellow Wasps", "text": "Yellow Wasps\n\nThe Yellow Wasps ( / \"Žute ose\") were a Serbian paramilitary group which was active in the Bosnian War. It was headed by Vojin Vučković and Dušan Repić. The group was active in the Zvornik region. Vojin and his brother Duško were convicted in 1996 for killing of 17 civilians in Čelopek, a suburb of the town of Zvornik, during the ethnic cleansing of the Bosniak population of the Drina valley in 1992. Four other members of the group have also been charged with war crimes.\n\nThe Yellow Wasps paramilitary unit was allegedly formed on 12 April 1992 by Brana Grujić, president of the Zvornik Serbian Democratic Party (SDS), and a man known as Marko Pavlović, commander of the Zvornik Territorial Defense unit (TO), at a session of the Zvornik municipal assembly.\n\nConsisting of about seventy men, the unit was commanded by Vojin Vučković, nicknamed \"Žućo\", born in 1962, an electrician from the town of Umka, near Belgrade, martial arts expert and former coach of the Serbian Interior Ministry judo team.<ref name=\"TSP/HRW\"></ref>\n\nDuring the ICTY trial of Momčilo Krajišnik evidence was given that Marko Pavlović was an intelligence officer named Branislav \"Branko\" Popović, a major with the Zvornik Brigade of the Bosnian Serb Army who subsequently transferred to the Serbian army.\n\nThe \"Yellow Wasps\" paramilitary group was one of three paramilitary groups responsible for the \"ethnic cleansing\" and looting of Zvornik. They targeted not just Bosniaks, but anyone rich, including Serbs. They captured the Serbian mayor of Zvornik and tried to take control of the town using weapons from the territorial defence force. The Bosnian Serbs arrested them and sent them back to Serbia, but they soon returned.\n\nThe village of Divič, on the left bank of the river Drina, near Zvornik, was one of the first Bosnian towns to be ethnically cleansed of its Bosniak population of about 3000.\n\nOn 26 May 1992, the Bosniak residents were transferred out of the village on buses and kept overnight in Zvornik. The next day the women and children were driven to the Bosnian government-controlled city of Tuzla. The able-bodied men (a total of 180) were initially detained in the Drina stadium before being taken to makeshift prison in a former office building. Two days later on 29 May most of the men were transferred to the Dom Kultura community centre in Čelopek, others disappeared.\n\nOn 10 June 1992, Dušan Vučković and ten other soldiers visited the Dom Kultura. They forced fathers to commit sexual assaults on their sons and beat to death or shot a total of fifteen prisoners. Survivors were given ten minutes to clean the blood, prisoners ordered to carry out the bodies were not seen again. Subsequently, Vučković and his companions visited Čelopek almost every night to beat, torture and kill prisoners. On 27 June 1992, Vučković fired a machine gun at prisoners at random, killing twenty-five. The prison was closed two days later, and eighty-four survivors were transferred via Zvornik to the Batković concentration camp, near Bijeljina.\n\nIn August 1992 about seventy Yellow Wasp members were arrested and accused of robbing and murdering Serbian and Bosniak civilians. They were detained in Bijeljina, where they were allegedly beaten and forced to sign confessions extracted under torture. They were transferred to Serbia before being released. Subsequently, the Vučković brothers were arrested by the Serbian Interior Ministry on 5 November 1993 and indicted on 28 April 1994. Duško was charged with killing sixteen civilians and wounding another twenty in June 1992, reportedly cutting off a civilian's ear, and for raping and robbing a Bosniak woman in the village of Radalj, near Mali Zvornik in Serbia (allowing the case to be tried in Serbia). Vojin Vučković was charged with illegal possession of arms and falsely identifying himself as a police officer. The indictment stated that the brothers had volunteered to help the Serbs in Bosnia and Herzegovina after the war erupted.\n\nDuring the trial Vojin Vučković denied involvement in the crimes to which he had confessed, claiming that he had been forced to sign a confession because he feared that the secret police would kill his family. He claimed to have been dismissed from the army after about two months, diagnosed as \"a psychopath and an alcoholic,\" and been treated for alcoholism and drug abuse. Vučković boasted about connections in the Serbian Interior Ministry, was proud of his unit's military achievements in and around Zvornik, and said that his brother, who had obeyed his orders in the field, was an example to other soldiers.\n\nAccording to a Human Rights Watch and Helsinki Watch researcher, the prosecutor's questions were formulated to elicit answers that supported the defense. The prosecution's witnesses, two members of the Yellow Wasps, revealed nothing about the crimes but praised Vojin and Dušan's soldiery. Implied Serbian government involvement in the crimes was not pursued. The prosecution failed to present evidence of wrongdoing, witnesses did not appear, a judge allegedly showed inappropriate support towards the Vučković brothers, guards offered the brothers cigarettes, and on the third day of the trial, defense lawyers announced that Vučković had already been tried and found not guilty by a military court in Banja Luka for war crimes allegedly perpetrated in Bijeljina. The court was dismissed, the presiding judge fell ill, and the trial was then postponed indefinitely.\n\nIn July 1996 the Vučković brothers were tried again and Duško Vučković was sentenced to seven years in prison. After an appeal, two years later the Supreme Court of Serbia sentenced Duško Vučković to ten years in prison for a war crime against civilian population and a rape, and Vojin Vučković to four months in prison for illegal possession of firearms, ammunition and explosives.\n\nAt trial Duško Vučković admitted he had been a member of the Serb Radical Party (SRS). He said that he joined the SRS because no one else would have taken him because of his mental health problems. He had made plans to go to the frontline with SRS colleagues Zoran Dražilović, Ljubiša Petković and Zoran Rankić and received military training under supervision of Rankic and his brother. He had been arrested on 15 April 1992 after an incident in Zvornik but was released a few days later thanks to the efforts of the president of the SRS in Loznica and a lawyer hired by the party.\n\nIn November 2005 Branko Grujić and Branko Popović, and four of the \"Yellow Wasps\", Dragan Slavković, Ivan Korać, Siniša Filipović and Dragutin Dragićević, were accused of murdering at least 22 and forcefully deporting 1,822 Bosniak civilians from the Zvornik municipality were charged by the War Crimes Chamber of the Belgrade District Court with murder, torture and forcible movement of Zvornik Bosniaks in the period between May and June 1992. The so-called \"Zvornik Group\" were specifically accused of having expelled more than 1,200 Bosniaks from the villages of Kozluk and Skočić on 26 June 1992. Grujić, Popović and the other four pleaded not guilty. Duško Vučković, who would otherwise have been charged with the same crimes had died suddenly the week before in a detention cell in Belgrade District Prison. The trial was the first war crime trial transferred to the Serbian War Crimes Chamber by the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia.\n\nAt the trial in 2008 former Yellow Wasp member Miroslav Nikolić testified that the unit under Vojin Vučković's command had been responsible for the village of Kozluk. After a period away from the unit Nikolić returned to find Kozluk deserted. Grujić and Popović were also accused of knowing about but doing nothing to prevent Yellow Wasp members killing at least 19 Bosniaks from Divič inside the Dom Kultura in Čelopek and at least three others in the Ekonomija and Ciglana districts.\n\nThe unit was the subject of a 1995 film by Ilan Ziv.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51003433", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51003433", "title": "Zhabokryak Raid", "text": "Zhabokryak Raid\n\nThe Zhabokryak Raid was an operation carried out by the Rila-Pirinskov partisan detachment during the Bulgarian resistance movement during World War II.\n\nThe raid was organized under the People's Liberation Insugent Army and simultaneously targeted four government objectives that stretched 20 kilometers along the river Rilska. For the operation, the Rilo-Pirinskov partisan squad of 350 combatants was gathered.\n\nDuring the operation, the partisan corps attacked a Bulgarian watchpost. In the village of Pastra, a reserve company was taken without a fight by the partisans and their weapons were taken as trophies. In the locality of Zhabokryak, there were reports of workshops and warehouses being plundered. Numerous cases of material damage were caused by partisans in the area.\n\nThe building of a joint Bulgarian–German command company (nicknamed \"Granitoid\") was taken over. At the start of the operation, two partisan combatants were wounded. On the other side, 25 German soldiers and their leader, Reinhart Tomanek, were killed. One German officer survived by hiding throughout the battle.\n\nThere are conflicting accounts of the goals of the raid in publicized written sources from that time.\n"}
