{"id": "52301893", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52301893", "title": "Afro-Palestinians", "text": "Afro-Palestinians\n\nAfricans in Palestine self-identify deeply with both their original African ancestry and the Palestinian nationality. A minority of African Palestinians which number around 400-500 reside in the Muslim quarter located in the city of Jerusalem. \nPeople of African ancestry were present in Jerusalem dating back to as far as the 7th century. Africans migrated to the city of Jerusalem when the second caliph Umar Ibn Al Khattab conquered the city of Jerusalem. Traveling from Sudan, Chad, Nigeria, and Senegal with the goal of entering the holy city of Jerusalem to perform the Muslim pilgrimage Hajj.\n\nThis neighborhood has been around since the 13th century and is marked by the Mamluk time architecture. African slaves were the protectors of Al Aqsa mosque. During the end of the Ottoman, the present day compounds were made into a prison compound for those who rebelled against the Ottoman power. \n\nAfter Ottoman rule the buildings known as al-Ribat al-Mansouri and Ribat Aladdin al-Bassir became a part of the religious trust waqf. Proving their loyalty as protectors of al-Aqsa mosque, Palestinian leader Sheikh Amin al-Husseini rented out these compounds to the Africans.\n\nThe Muslim African migrants who traveled to Jerusalem prior to 1947 found themselves in one of the most troubled areas in the region. With no diplomatic ties, these migrants had no other choice but to stay, leaving their families behind. Some chose to stay and fight alongside Palestinians. Falling in love with the city of Jerusalem and its deep ties to Islam they married Palestinians and continued to identify as Palestinians. The African Palestinians who now live in the two compounds near al-Aqsa mosque, have called them home since 1930.\n"}
{"id": "18133305", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18133305", "title": "Angel of Grozny", "text": "Angel of Grozny\n\nAngel of Grozny: Inside Chechnya is a book by Norwegian journalist Åsne Seierstad published in 2008, which gives an account of everyday life in the war-torn Russian Republic of Chechnya. The book was also printed under the title Angel of Grozny: Orphans of a Forgotten War.\n\nÅsne Seierstad first visited Chechnya in 1994 (aged just 24) during the First Chechen War. In 2006, she returned to the region to examine its progress. In the intervening period, Chechnya had been ravaged by a second civil war after disputed elections were won by Russian-backed Akhmad Kadyrov. During this conflict Russian control of the province was re-established, a process which caused enormous loss of life and widespread destruction of buildings and infrastructure. In 2003, the United Nations described the Chechen capital Grozny as the most destroyed city in the world.\n\nForeign journalists are not generally allowed into Chechnya, and Seierstad did most of her travelling and research in disguise with her hair dyed.\n\n\"Angel of Grozny\" attempts to give an accessible and impartial account of the complicated historical and political forces at play in the Chechen conflict whilst also describing her encounters with combatants and civilians on both sides. The book features an account of her meeting with Chechen President Ramzan Kadyrov. As well as trying to understand the mindset of the Chechen and Russian people, one of the books key themes is the exposure of corruption in the process of reconstructing Chechnya.\n\nThe Angel of Grozny of the book's title is a Chechen woman Hadijat Gatayeva who has turned their home into an orphanage for street children of the war.\n\nA criticism often levelled at Åsne Seierstad is her tendency to present personal stories which have not been fully cross-checked for accuracy. Her style, blending historical facts with personal accounts, sometimes blurs the boundary between fact and fiction and language gaps can cause misunderstandings. By focusing on such a small group of individuals to present her case, she fails to prove any abuses or wrongdoing is systemic, and therefore cannot easily hold people to account for their actions.\n\nIn \"Angel of Grozny\" she goes a step further by writing some sections of the book in the third person. She describes events she did not witness, often in vivid and evocative language which is ill-suited to the actual person telling the story. The \"Manchester Guardian\" reviewer described the \"blurring of reportage and imagined scenes\" as \"sometimes uncomfortable\".\n\n"}
{"id": "40852422", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40852422", "title": "Argentine Canadians", "text": "Argentine Canadians\n\nArgentine Canadians are Canadian citizens of Argentine descent or an Argentina-born person who resides in Canada. The Canadian Immigration Act of 1952 resulted in an increased number of skilled and educated Argentine immigrants to Canada. The majority were fleeing the economic decline and political turmoil following the Revolución Libertadora. An average of 400 Argentines immigrated to Canada annually from 1964 to 1972. Beginning in 1973, increased instability, terrorism and high inflation in Argentina created another wave of immigration to Canada. The rate of immigration increased to more than 1000 persons annually during the mid-1970s. The influx lasted until 1983, coinciding with the progress of Argentine democracy.\n\nThe highest concentrations of Argentine Canadians are in Toronto, Ontario and Montreal, Quebec.\n\n"}
{"id": "15449517", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15449517", "title": "Asian-American theatre", "text": "Asian-American theatre\n\nAsian-American theatre is theatre written, directed or acted by Asian Americans. From initial efforts by four theatre companies in the 1960s, Asian-American theatre has grown to around forty groups today. Early productions often had Asian themes or settings, but today it is becoming more common to see Asian-Americans in roles that defy the stereotypes.\n\nAsian-American theatre emerged in the 1960s and the 1970s with the foundation of four theatre companies: East West Players in Los Angeles, Asian American Theatre Workshop (later renamed Asian American Theater Company) in San Francisco, Theatrical Ensemble of Asians (later renamed Northwest Asian American Theatre) in Seattle, and Pan Asian Repertory Theatre in New York City. The Northwest Asian American Theatre was one of the first in the Pacific Northwest. The four companies have provided the resources and opportunities to actors, writers, directors, designers, and producers to pursue and define \"Asian-American theatre\" for over five decades. By the end of the 1990s, the number of Asian-American theatre companies and performance groups grew to about forty. In addition, such companies helped integrate Asian-Americans into many popular theatre companies by normalizing Asian actors. Asian-American plays have appeared on Broadway and regional theatres and have received major awards both nationally and internationally. Asian-American actors have used Asian-American theatre companies as their artistic bases while pursuing careers in the mainstream theatre, film and television. Alternative forms of theatre and performance such as multimedia performance, solo performance and spoken word have also shaped Asian-American theatre. In the beginning, participants of Asian-American theatre were mostly of East Asian descent, but in the 1990s and the 21st century, more artists of South Asian and Southeast Asian and backgrounds have joined the community and have made Asian-American theatre one of the fastest growing and changing sectors in American theatre.\n\nEast West Players (EWP) was founded in 1965 by a group of actors who wanted to fight racism in the entertainment industry by creating non-stereotypical roles for Asian Americans. Led by the Japanese-American actor Mako, the actors at EWP first saw theatre as a venue to showcase their talent for television and film producers and directors, but by the early 1970s, the EWP began to actively sponsor original plays by Asian Americans. Frank Chin, who founded the Asian American Theatre Workshop, argued that Asian-American actors needed Asian-American playwrights to create believable roles and to end dependence on the mainstream acting industry. Theatrical Ensemble of Asians (TEA) began in 1974 on the campus of the University of Washington, and after the founding students graduated, moved into a theatre in the International District, renaming them selves the Asian Exclusion Act. The theatre group moved around several locations before finding a home at the Theatre Off Jackson. It was late renamed again as the Northwest Asian American Theatre (NWAAT). In addition to acting and playwriting, NWAAT emphasized community activism and became a cultural center for Asian Americans in Seattle; many of the plays they performed were directly targeted at expressing the painful history of discrimination Asian-Americans in America suffered after the Chinese Exclusion Act. Pan Asian Repertory Theatre (Pan Asian Rep), on the other hand, emerged as part of Off-Off-Broadway theatre in 1978. Founded by Tisa Chang, Pan Asian Rep became the representative Asian-American theatre company in New York City and introduced Asian-American plays to the East Coast audiences. In the 1980s and 1990s, Asian-American theatre companies were founded with more diverse purposes and styles. Companies such as Ma-Yi Theater Company (New York City) focus on producing new, original plays, as did the now-defunct Lodestone Theatre Ensemble (Los Angeles, 1999-2009). Others companies' agendas departed greatly from the original four: National Asian American Theatre Company (NAATCO) in New York City, for instance, stages canonized Western plays with all Asian cast and Mu Performing Arts in Minneapolis incorporates Asian theatrical styles to specifically cater to local audiences.\n\nAmerican theatre in the 1950s was dominated by popular Broadway shows that featured Asian characters and settings, and shows such as \"The King and I\" and \"Flower Drum Song\" provided employment to a number of \"Oriental\" actors. However, many roles were blatantly stereotypical and racist and many major roles were cast with white actors with facial makeup resembling an \"Oriental\". The popularity of Asian themes in Broadway shows did not continue through the 1960s, and \"Oriental\" actors found themselves unemployed in large numbers. While they were out of work, they observed white actors getting cast in Asian roles. \"Oriental\" actors began to protest this practice by creating activist organizations and creating work for themselves. The term \"Asian-American actor\" emerged in the late 1960s when the Asian American movement challenged the racist history of the label \"Oriental.\" By the 1970s, Asian-American actors were well organized in their fight for jobs and positive images for Asians. In New York, an activist group called Oriental Actors of America regularly protested openings of shows with white actors playing Asians. In Los Angeles, East West Players became the most visible venue for Asian-American actors to find acting employment and to participate in activism. The company's proximity to Hollywood attracted many ambitious and talented Asian-American actors to Los Angeles. By the mid-1990s, over 75% of all Asian-American actors had acted on the stage of EWP.\n\nIn the early 1990s, the controversy over the musical \"Miss Saigon\" surfaced when Asian-American actors protested the casting of the British actor Jonathan Pryce for the role of the half-Vietnamese Engineer in the Broadway production of the musical. The protest was led by many prominent Asian-American theatre artists, including actor BD Wong, the artistic director of Pan Asian Rep, Tisa Chang, and the playwright David Henry Hwang. Asian-American actors initially lost their fight when the musical opened on Broadway with Pryce, but in the long run, the controversy generated many positive aftereffects for Asian-American actors. The musical's ten-year run on Broadway employed an unprecedented number of Asian-American actors, and the role of the Engineer was subsequently cast with Asian-American actors.\n\nAsian Americans have won the fight for employment, and while some roles for them stereotype those of Asian descent, Asian Americans are increasingly winning roles that respect and tolerate Asian Americans from the majority of producers who are realizing the reality of racial bigotry and ignorance that brings hostility and degradation to those oppressed.\n\nBefore the 1960s, Asian-American plays were virtually non-existent, but various initiatives, including East West Players' playwriting contest, encouraged Asian-American writers to adapt their short stories and novels into plays and to write original plays. The first wave of Asian-American playwrights included Wakako Yamauchi, Momoko Iko, Edward Sakamoto, Hiroshi Kashiwagi, and Frank Chin. Common themes in plays by first wave writers were Asian-American history, generational conflict, cultural identity, cultural nationalism, and family history. In 1972, Frank Chin's \"The Chickencoop Chinaman\" became the first Asian-American play to be produced in New York City, and since then, Chin has become a major spokesperson for Asian-American playwriting. He founded the Asian American Theatre Workshop in San Francisco to promote original playwriting by Asian Americans. The most commercially successful Asian-American play was David Henry Hwang's play \"M. Butterfly\", which became the first Asian-American play to be produced on Broadway and won the Tony Award for Best Play in 1988. The success of \"M. Butterfly\" created a national interest in Asian-American plays, and regional theatre companies around the country began to produce plays by Hwang and other second wave Asian-American writers such as Philip Kan Gotanda and Velina Hasu Houston. Such interest also promoted the publication of first anthologies of Asian-American plays in the early 1990s. The mainstreaming of Asian-American plays increased with works by third wave writers such as Diana Son, Sung Rno, Han Ong, Chay Yew, Rick Shiomi, and Ralph Peña. These third wave writers felt that race and ethnicity were mere jumping off point in addressing multifaceted experiences of being an Asian American and wrote about any topic that interested them. All three waves of Asian American playwrights continue to produce works that define not only Asian-American theatre, but also American theatre and global theatre.\n\nOne of the pioneers of Asian-American alternative theatre is Ping Chong, a Chinese American multimedia artist who has created avant-garde theatre since the early 1970s. He has used visual effects, sound control, dance, mime, spectacle, and other methods based on the sensibilities of Cantonese opera. Another form of alternative theatre is solo performance. Often written, directed, and acted by one performer, solo performance has provided many Asian-American artists with the opportunity to voice their experiences. Solo performers, such as Dan Kwong, Denise Uyehara, Jude Narita, and Lane Nishikawa, have toured with their shows and have introduced Asian-American theatre to audiences in all parts of the country. Group performances have also toured, especially to colleges and universities. Often comedic, group performances, such as Slant Performance Group and the 18 Mighty Mountain Warriors, have been popular amongst college students, many of whom saw Asian-American performers onstage for the first time. Recently, spoken word groups have become the newest form of Asian-American theatre and performance.\n\nIn June 2006, \"Next Big Bang:\" The First Asian-American Theatre Conference was held in Los Angeles, spearheaded by East West Players. It was followed in June 2007 with the first ever National Asian American Theatre Festival, held in New York City. The two-week festival was co-organized by Pan Asian Rep, Ma-Yi Theater and NAATCO. From June 11 – June 24, work from more than 35 emerging and established artists and groups from across the nation was presented in over 13 venues around New York City's boroughs.\n\"Shaping Our Voice & Vision\": the 2nd National Asian American Theater Conference took place June 5–7, 2008, in Minneapolis, co-hosted by Mu Performing Arts and Pangea World Theater.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39643521", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39643521", "title": "Associazione Nazionale Felina Italiana", "text": "Associazione Nazionale Felina Italiana\n\nThe (ANFI; Italian National Feline Association) is the Italian official registry association for catteries and cat breeding. It was formed in 1934 and is currently recognized by the Italian Ministerial decree dated 9 June 2005. Every year it organizes cat shows all over the country.\n\nANFI is one of the founding members of the (FIFe).\n\n"}
{"id": "54193028", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54193028", "title": "Awanzai (Pashtun tribe)", "text": "Awanzai (Pashtun tribe)\n\nAwanzai (Pashto: آعوانزي) is a Pashtun allied tribe that resides in Afghanistan and Pakistan. \n\nThe Awan claim Arab descent from Qutb Shah of Ghazni, who ruled at Herat, but joined Mahmud of Ghazni in his invasions of India in 1004 A.D. and received from him the name of Awanor, which means Helper. Qutb Shah was descended from Ali, the son-in-law of the Prophet Muhammad but through the Family tree of Ali's other wife.\nThe Awans have been Muslims from the beginning. Qutb Shah had six sons, Kalan Shah, who settled near Kalabagh while two settled in Tirah and the Kurram Valley.\nThe rest settled in Punjab, Pakistan.\n\nThe Awans who have been living in the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province for centuries have mixed up with other Pashtun tribes like the Yousafzai tribe in Topi, Khyber Pakhtunkhwa which in turn gave birth to a Sub-clan called 'Awanzai'.\n\nOn a rural level, Awanzai historically were of the zamindar or landowning class and many Awanzai families to this day live on and cultivate land, which their ancestors have held for centuries.\n"}
{"id": "10438631", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10438631", "title": "Blessing of the Throats", "text": "Blessing of the Throats\n\nThe Blessing of the Throats is a sacramental of the Roman Catholic Church, celebrated on February 3, the feast day of Saint Blaise of Sebaste. It also celebrated in some of the Eastern Catholic Churches, and in parishes of the Anglican Communion on the same day as a commemoration.\n\nThe \"Order of the Blessing of Throats on the Feast of Saint Blaise\" is in the \"Book of Blessings\" (\"de Benedictionibus\").\n\nArticle 1625 from \"The Book of Blessings\" contains a brief historical background of the blessing of throats:\n\nDetails regarding the miraculous healing of the boy vary. One account relates that the miracle occurred during the journey to take Blaise to prison when he placed his hand on the boy's head and prayed; another that the miracle happened while Blaise was in prison when he picked up two candles provided to him and formed a cross around the boy's throat.\n\nThe use of candles for the blessing of throats stems from the candles that Blaise used while in prison. When an old woman's pig had been miraculously rescued from a wolf by Saint Blaise, she would visit him in prison, bringing him food and candles to bring him light in his dark cell.\n\nArticles 1626 and 1627 explains when and how the blessing takes place:\n\nThe candles may be joined together by a red ribbon, the color of martyrdom. Although it is the general custom to touch the throat with the candles, it is not required, especially if the candles are lit. The candles may be held over the person.\n\nIf all cannot be blessed individually, the celebrant, without candles, extends his hands over the assembly and says the prayer of blessing.\n\nThe following blessing is said: \nThe priest or deacon makes the sign of the cross over the recipient as the blessing is said. If necessary, laypersons are permitted to give the blessing of the throats, but are not allowed to make the sign of the cross.\n\nThe ordinary Anglican (Episcopal) version of this prayer is:\nThe older \"Rituale Romanum\", used in the Extraordinary Form, contains a blessing of the candles:\n\nIn Germany and in other places, the blessing of throats is given with lighted candles. It is frequently also given on the evening of Candlemas (the previous day), sometimes even on the proximate Sunday, when more people attend Mass than on St. Blaise's proper feast day.\n\nIn the Church of San Carlo ai Catinari in Rome, which is dedicated to St. Blaise as co-patron, the blessing is given with a relic of Saint Blaise, in a crystal placed on a large ring, pressed against the throat.\n\nIn certain Hispanic countries (e.g., Spain and Mexico), a ribbon is given to be worn around the neck for the nine days following the blessing.\n\nIn the Armenian Catholic Church, the neck is anointed with oil on a cotton swab or on a candle. The blessing of throats does not appear to be practiced in the Armenian Apostolic Church.\n\nA Ukrainian Greek Catholic ritual of the blessing of the throats also exists.\n\nThe older \"Rituale Romanum\" provides a blessing for bread, wine, water and fruit for the relief of throat ailments on the feast of Saint Blaise.\n\n"}
{"id": "40172429", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40172429", "title": "Bongo Bongo Land", "text": "Bongo Bongo Land\n\nIn British English, Bongo Bongo Land (or Bongo-bongo Land) is a pejorative term used to refer to Third World countries, particularly in Africa, or to a fictional such country.\n\nThe origin of the term is unclear but it may come from one of the following:\n\nThere is a reference to \"Bongoland\" in the English translation, by Ellen Elizabeth Frewer, of a book originally in German, by Georg August Schweinfurth, published in 1874 in English as \"The Heart of Africa\". The 1947 song Civilization by Bob Hilliard and Carl Sigman, recorded by various artists, contained the line \"Bongo, Bongo, Bongo, I Don't Want to Leave the Congo\". A variation of this was adopted for a poster produced by the fascist Union Movement bearing the chant \"Bongo, bongo, whites aren't going to leave the Congo\".\nIn the 1970s, the cinema advertisement for Silk Cut cigarettes parodying the 1964 film \"Zulu\" was supposedly set in 'Mbongoland'.\n\nThe term has featured in political controversies. In 1985 Alan Clark, while Conservative Member of Parliament for Plymouth Sutton, once, in a departmental meeting, allegedly referred to Africa as \"Bongo Bongo Land\". When called to account, however, by then Prime Minister John Major, Clark denied the comment had any racist overtones, claiming it had simply been a reference to the President of Gabon, Omar Bongo.\n\nIn 2004 Taki Theodoracopulos called Kenya \"bongo-bongo land\" in his \"Spectator\" column. \"The Guardian\" later criticized his use of \"offensive and outdated stereotypes\".\n\nIn July 2013, Godfrey Bloom, Member of the European Parliament for Yorkshire and the Humber for the UK Independence Party (UKIP) was filmed referring to countries which receive overseas aid from the United Kingdom as \"Bongo Bongo Land\". UKIP later banned use of the term, and while Bloom refused to apologise for his remarks, he later stated that he regretted \"any genuine offence which might have been caused.\" A spokesperson from Show Racism the Red Card stated that Bloom's remarks were: \"crude stereotypes that see Britain as a civilised place and overseas as tribal\". Matthew d'Ancona wrote in \"The Daily Telegraph\": \"There may indeed be some who inwardly cheered Bloom’s choice of words. But there will be many – including, crucially, some who agree with his position on aid – who felt queasy at the use of such antediluvian language.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "46494522", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46494522", "title": "Call signs in Oceania", "text": "Call signs in Oceania\n\nCall signs in Oceania are currently voluntary in Australia radio and TV station, and were previously compulsory in New Zealand. In both countries, stations like 2GB and Newstalk ZB continue to use parts of the call signs in their branding.\n\nThe International Telecommunication Union has assigned countries in the Oceania the following call sign blocks for all radio communication, broadcasting or transmission:\n\nThe conference held in 1927 assigned call prefixes mainly to colonial powers. The only modern Oceanic nation mentioned was an Anglo-French condominium lasting from 1906 until 1980, when the New Hebrides gained their independence as Vanuatu. New Hebrides was assigned YHA–YHZ.\n\nThe 1947 Atlantic City ITU Conference reallocated call sign blocks some developing island nations. This time New Hebrides was assigned YJA–YJZ. All other islands were assigned call prefixes according to their colonial or protectorate status.\n\nSince 1947 and the various independence movements, new call signs were assigned by the ITU or a new host country. This is particularly true of Japanese territories occupied by the United States following WWII.\n\nWhile not directly related to call signs, the International Telecommunication Union (ITU) further has divided all countries assigned amateur radio prefixes into three regions; countries and territories in Oceania are located in ITU Region 3. They cover CQ Zones 27, 28, 31, 32 and 12.\n\nThese are the deleted or changed DXCC entities in Oceania since World War II:\n\nAmateur radio or ham radio call signs are unique identifiers for more than 2,500 licensed operators in the western Pacific. Call signs are regulated internationally by the ITU as well as nationally by island national entities, some of which are independent countries and others are under colonial administration. For the purposes of this article, Australia, its dependencies and New Zealand are excluded. Also not included are Oceanic Indonesian areas of Irian Jaya and the Maluku Islands.\n\nSince call sign allocation from the International Telegraph Union is administered by national political authorities and international mandates, it is a story of colonial transition within the 20th Century.\n\n"}
{"id": "5720271", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5720271", "title": "Capital punishment in Finland", "text": "Capital punishment in Finland\n\nCapital punishment in Finland (Finnish: \"kuolemanrangaistus\") has been abolished \"de jure\".\n\nAs of 1823 in the Grand Duchy of Finland, death sentences were commuted to transportation to Siberia or other lesser sentences. The last person to be executed in peacetime was Tahvo Putkonen, on 8 July 1825. The capital punishment was \"de facto\" abolished during the rest of the Czarist regime 1825–1917 in Finland.\n\nDuring and right after the Finnish Civil War of 1918 there were many executions, most done without due process. Approximately 1,400–1,650 Whites and 7,000–10,000 Reds were executed by the opposing side. The executions were invariably carried out by firing squad. The Shoot on the Spot Declaration allowed White commanders to summarily execute prisoners, something which was of questionable legality, but this issue became moot after general amnesties.\n\nDuring the Winter War and Continuation War approximately 550 death sentences were carried out. 455 (some ninety percent) of those executed were Soviet infiltrators, spies and saboteurs. The officer's authority to execute soldiers refusing to obey commands or fleeing from combat was exercised only in 13 cases. The most famous case is the execution of conscientious objector Arndt Pekurinen in autumn 1941, who was also the penultimate Finn ever to be executed for civilian crimes (conscientious objection during wartime was considered high treason). As he declined taking a rifle and going to the front line, he was sentenced to death without trial for disobedience by his commanding officer, Captain Valkonen. Nobody in his battalion volunteered for the firing squad, and Captain Valkonen had to use threat of punishment to order a soldier, Corporal Asikainen, to shoot him. Pekurinen's death was widely considered miscarriage of justice by his service mates.\n\nThe last Finn to be executed for civilian crimes was Toivo \"Kirves\" (Axe) Koljonen, who killed a family of six with an axe in 1942. He was shot by a military police firing squad along with Soviet spies sentenced to death for espionage in 1943. The last woman executed in Finland was Martta Koskinen, shot for espionage and high treason in 1943. The last Finn to be executed for any crimes was Private Olavi Laiho, who was shot for desertion, high treason and espionage in Oulu, 2 September 1944. One day later a group of three Soviet infiltrators were shot, as the last persons to be executed in Finland.\n\nIn independent Finland, capital punishment for crimes committed in peacetime was abolished by law in 1949, and in 1972 it was abolished entirely. In addition, the current Constitution of Finland, adopted in 2000, —specifically Chapter 2, Section 7— prohibits capital punishment: \n\nIn the 19th century and before, as in the other Nordic countries, beheading by axe was the most common method of execution. In the 20th century, firing squads were used. The official beheading axe of Finland is today on display at Museum of Crime, Vantaa.\n\nSome notable lasts:\n\n\nOn 16 December 2015, a member of Finnish Parliament, a member of Finns Party, Teuvo Hakkarainen inquired Minister of Justice, also member of the same party, if capital punishment could be re-enacted, referring to the court case against two asylum seekers for 11 murders.\n"}
{"id": "21365", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21365", "title": "Demographics of Nicaragua", "text": "Demographics of Nicaragua\n\n\"This article is about the demographic features of the population of Nicaragua, including population density, ethnicity, education level, health of the populace, economic status, religious affiliations and other aspects of the population.\"\nAccording to , Nicaragua has a population of . Mestizos (who are a mix of Native American and white) make up about 69% of the population, while whites make up 24%. The remainder of the Nicaraguan population is 9% black, and 5% Native American.\n\nNicaraguan demographics reflected a different composition prior to the Sandinista revolution of 1979 since most of the migration during the years that followed were primarily of upper or middle class Nicaraguans, a group primarily made up of whites. A growing number of these expats have returned, while many continue to live abroad.\n\nThe 42.5% of the population live below to the poverty line, The general poverty rate is estimated of 47.3%, although much of the population lives in the lower middle class because of low salaries and a minimal amount of PIB (US$1000–3000).\n\nThe most populous city in the country is the capital city, Managua, with a population of 1.2 million (2005). As of 2005, over 4.4 million inhabitants live in the Pacific, Central and North regions. 2.7 million inhabitants reside in the Pacific region alone, while inhabitants in the Caribbean region only reach an estimated 700,000.\n\nThe Census Bureau in Nicaragua is the National Institute of Statistics and Census (INEC). The institution is in charge of completing censuses and surveys. INEC ran its first census in 1906, the last census was taken in 2005, it was the eighth to date.\n\nAccording to the total population was in , compared to only 1,295,000 in 1950. The proportion of children below the age of 15 in 2010 was 34.5%, 60.9% was between 15 and 65 years of age, while 4.6% was 65 years or older\n\nStructure of the population (01.07.2009) (estimates):\n\nNinety percent of Nicaraguans live in the Pacific lowlands and the adjacent interior highlands. The population is 54% urban. The most populous city in Nicaragua is the capital city, Managua, with a population of 1.2 million (2005). As of 2005, over 4.4 million inhabitants live in the Pacific, Central and North regions of the country. There are 2.7 million residents in the Pacific region. The Caribbean region has an estimated 700,000 residents. In addition, many Nicaraguans live abroad. \n\nRegistration of vital events is in Nicaragua not complete. The Population Department of the United Nations prepared the following estimates.\n\nTotal Fertility Rate (TFR) (Wanted Fertility Rate) and Crude Birth Rate (CBR):\n\nBirths and deaths\n\nIn the 19th century, there had been a substantial indigenous minority, but this group was also largely assimilated culturally into the mestizo majority. Primarily in the 19th century, Nicaragua saw several waves of immigration from other European nations. In particular the northern cities of Estelí, Jinotega and Matagalpa have significant fourth generation Germans. Most of Nicaragua's population lives in the western region of the country in the departments of Managua, Granada and Léon.\n\nAccording to the 2005 census 443,847 (8.6%) residents consider themselves to belong to an indigenous people or to an ethnic community. The remaining majority of the Nicaraguan population (91.6%) are deemed mestizo and white, with the majority of these being of Spanish, with some German, Italian, Portuguese and French ancestry. Mestizos and whites mainly reside in the western region of the country.\n\nPossibly also a part of the black or Afro-Nicaraguan population, which mainly resides on the country's sparsely populated Caribbean (or Atlantic) coast, is included in the majority population which does not consider itself to belong to an ethnic community. In the 2005 census, there were only 19,890 Creoles (0.4% of the total population). The Creole population is mostly of West Indian (Antillean) origin, the descendants of indentured laborers brought mostly from Jamaica when the region was a British protectorate.\n\nThe Garifuna, a people of mixed Carib, Angolan, Congolese and Arawak descent, numbered 3,271 in 2005 (0.1%). 112,253 people considered themselves \"Mestizo de la Costa Caribe\" (mestizo of the Caribbean coast). In addition to the inhabitants who declared themselves Indigenous or Ethnic community, 13,740 answered \"Other\". Another 47,473 responded \"Not Sure\" and an additional 19,460 responded \"Ignore\".\n\nThe Native American population, the unmixed descendants of the country's indigenous inhabitants, numbered 227,760 (4.4% of the total population) in 2005. Nicaragua's pre-Columbian consisted of many indigenous groups. In the western region, the Nahua people (also known as the Pipil-Nicaraos) were present along with other groups such as the Chorotega people.\n\nThe central region and the Caribbean coast of Nicaragua were inhabited by indigenous peoples who were mostly Chibcha-related groups that had migrated from South America, primarily present day Colombia and Venezuela. These groups include the Miskitos (120,817 people), Matagalpa (15,240 people), Ramas (4,185 people), Sumos (9,756 people) and Ulwa (698 people). Other indigenous peoples include the Subtiaba (19,949 people) and modern-day Chorotegas who are also known as the Mangue (46,002 people).\n\nIn the 19th century, there was still a substantial indigenous minority, but this group was largely assimilated culturally into the mestizo majority. In the mid-1980s, the government divided the department of Zelaya – consisting of the eastern half of the country — into two autonomous regions and granted the black and indigenous people of this region limited self-rule within the Republic.\n\nRelative to its overall population, Nicaragua has never experienced any large scale wave of immigrants. The total number of immigrants to Nicaragua, both originating from other Latin American countries and all other countries, never surpassed 1% of its total population prior to 1995. The 2005 census showed the foreign-born population at 1.2%, having risen a mere .06% in 10 years. However, in the 19th century, Nicaragua received immigrants from Europe, who established many agricultural businesses such as coffee and sugar cane plantations, and also newspapers, hotels and banks.\n\nDuring the Nicaraguan Revolution and the Civil War, thousands of Nicaraguans left the country. After the 1990 Nicaraguan Elections some people returned, but many more emigrated during the rest of the decade. In 1998, the Hurricane Mitch killed almost 4,000 people in the country and destroyed much of the Nicaraguan economy, as a result thousands of Nicaraguans received the TPS for emigrate to the United States as \"refugees\". In recent years, many Nicaraguans had left the country to escape poverty and unemployment.\n\nNicaraguan emigration is a recent process. During the 1990–2004 period, more than 800,000 Nicaraguans left the country, compared to 100,000 during the 1970–1989 period. According to the World Bank, in 2005 there were 683,520 Nicaraguans living outside Nicaragua legally. If those who are undocumented are counted, some sources estimate as many as 1,500,000 Nicaraguans living abroad by the end of 2005. Nicaraguans are the third largest community of Central Americans living abroad, after Guatemalans and Salvadorans. Nicaragua is also the second country in Central America by percentage of population living abroad.\n\nRemittances to Nicaragua represent about 15% of the country's GDP. In 2008 Nicaragua received close to one billion dollars in remittances; an increase from the $750,000,000 received in 2007, according to the World Bank\n\nThe official language of Nicaragua is Spanish, or Nicañol as Nicaraguan Spanish is sometimes referred to, and is spoken by the country's population. In Nicaragua the Voseo form is common, just as in other countries in Central and South America like Honduras, Argentina, and Uruguay. Spanish has many different dialects spoken throughout Latin America, Central American Spanish is the dialect spoken in Nicaragua.\n\n\nSome other characteristics of Nicaraguan phonology include:\n\nNicaraguans on the Caribbean coast speak their indigenous languages and also English. The indigenous peoples of the east who use their original language tend to also speak Spanish and/or English, the main languages being Miskito language, Sumo language, and Rama language. Creole languages are also present in the Caribbean coast, Nicaragua Creole English has 30,000 speakers.\n\nNicaragua has many minority groups. Many ethnic groups in Nicaragua, such as the Chinese Nicaraguans and Palestinian Nicaraguans, have maintained their ancestral languages while also speaking Spanish and/or English. Minority languages include Chinese, Arabic, German, Italian among others. Nicaragua also has a total of 3 extinct languages.\n\nNicaraguan Sign Language is also of particular interest to linguists.\n\nReligion is a significant part of the culture of Nicaragua and forms part of the constitution. Religious freedom, which has been guaranteed since 1939, and religious tolerance is promoted by both the Nicaraguan government and the constitution. Bishops are expected to lend their authority to important state occasions, and their pronouncements on national issues are closely followed. They can also be called upon to mediate between contending parties at moments of political crisis.\n\nAlthough Nicaragua has no official religion it is nominally Roman Catholic. Practicing Roman Catholics are no longer the majority and are declining while evangelical Protestant groups and Mormons are growing rapidly have been growing since the 1990s. There are also strong Anglican and Moravian communities on the Caribbean coast.\n\nRoman Catholicism came to Nicaragua in the 16th century with the Spanish conquest and remained, until 1939, the established faith. Protestantism and various Christian sects came to Nicaragua during the 19th century, but only during the 20th century have Protestant denominations gained large followings in the Caribbean Coast of the country. Popular religion revolves around the saints, who are perceived as intermediaries between human beings and God.\n\nMost localities, from the capital of Managua to small rural communities, honor patron saints selected from the Roman Catholic calendar with annual \"fiestas\". In many communities, a rich lore has grown up around the celebrations of patron saints, such as Managua's Saint Dominic (Santo Domingo), honored in August with two colorful, often riotous, day-long processions through the city. The high point of Nicaragua's religious calendar for the masses is neither Christmas nor Easter, but La Purísima, a week of festivities in early December dedicated to the Immaculate Conception, during which elaborate altars to the Virgin Mary are constructed in homes and workplaces.\n\n\nGeneral:\n\n"}
{"id": "2599760", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2599760", "title": "Design science", "text": "Design science\n\nA concept of Design Science was introduced in 1957 by R. Buckminster Fuller who defined it as a systematic form of designing. He expanded on this concept in his \"World Design Science Decade\" proposal to the International Union of Architects in 1961. The term was later used by S. A. Gregory in the 1965 'The Design Method' Conference where he drew the distinction between scientific method and design method. Gregory was clear in his view that design was not a science and that design science referred to the scientific study of design. Herbert Simon in his 1968 Karl Taylor Compton lectures used and popularized these terms in his argument for the scientific study of the artificial (as opposed to the natural). Over the intervening period the two uses of the term (systematic designing and study of designing) have co-mingled to the point where design science may have both meanings.\n\nThe first edition of Simon's \"The Sciences of the Artificial\", published in 1969, built on previous developments and motivated the development of systematic and formalized design methodologies relevant to many design disciplines, for example architecture, engineering, urban planning, medicine, computer science, and management studies. Simon's ideas about the science of design also motivated the development of design research and the scientific study of designing. In his book Simon also used the idea of a theory of design alluding to design science as a science of design. For example, the axiomatic theory of design described in Suh presents a domain independent theory that can explain or prescribe the design process. The Function-Behavior-Structure (FBS) ontology, described in Gero presenting a domain independent ontology of design and designing, is another example. Early efforts that use mathematics to formalize the design process include Braha’s Formal Theory of Design (FDT), which is a domain independent mathematical and computational theory of the design process. Developing from the idea of a 'design science' there has been recurrent concern to differentiate design from science. Nigel Cross differentiated between scientific design, design science and a science of design. The scientific study of design does not require or assume that the acts of designing are themselves scientific and an increasing number of research programs take this view. Cross uses the term 'designerly' to distinguish designing from other kinds of human activity.\n\nBraha and Maimon argue that there is direct similarity between design and the scientific process. There is growing pressure on architects, engineers, lawyers, managers and other design-oriented professionals to act and decide on the basis of a systematic body of evidence. Hevner and Chatterjee provide a reference on Design Science Research (DSR) in Information Systems, including a selection of papers from the DESRIST conferences, a look at key principles of DSR, and the integration of action research with design research. In 2010, 122 professors promoted design science in information system research by signing a memorandum.\n\nHevner et al. provide a set of seven guidelines which help information systems researchers conduct, evaluate and present design-science research. The seven guidelines address design as an artifact, problem relevance, design evaluation, research contributions, research rigor, design as a search process, and research communication.\n\nLater extensions of the Design Science framework detail how design and research problems can be rationally decomposed by means of nested problem solving. It is also explained how the regulative cycle (problem investigation, solution design, design validation, solution implementation, and implementation evaluation) fits in the framework. Peffers et al. developed a model for producing and presenting information systems research, the Design Science Research Process. The Peffers et al. model has been used extensively and Adams provides an example of the process model being applied to create a digital forensic process model.\n\nExample of Design Science research : \"Hypermodelling: Next Level Software Engineering with Data Warehouses\", \"The Business Model Ontology: a proposition in a design science approach.\", \"Design support for e-commerce information systems using goal, business and process modelling\", \"Aligning Access Rights to Governance Needs with the Responsibility MetaModel (ReMMo) in the Frame of Enterprise Architecture\".\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "53417080", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53417080", "title": "Environmental health policy", "text": "Environmental health policy\n\nEnvironmental health policy is the interplay between the environment and health, and how the environment can affect human health. Policies are created by governments and organizations where they see the issues arising in the health of their jurisdiction related to the environment.\n\nThere are several environmental factors that can contribute to health including air quality, climate change, toxic drinking water, and toxic chemical exposure. Depending on the region the policy is in, different environmental factors are going to be addressed in the policy. Some effects of the environment on health can include asthma, malaria, cholera, disease, cancer, and physical injury. These are also dependent on the area in which the individual lives, and how severe the environmental factors are. Climate change issues have become more prevalent in the 21st century, requiring action from global leaders. When there are substantial changes to the environment, a populations health is vulnerable to potential risks.\n\nEnvironmental health policy can be implemented at many levels of government, including the municipal, state and international levels. Municipal governments focus on policies that affect the boundaries they control, while state governments focus on several cities or states within their borders where environment affects health. International policies involve the cooperation of several states to implement the same policy to address larger environmental issues on health like pollution and climate change.\n\nDeveloping nations take a different approach to environmental health politics than developed nations. Developing nations do not always have the same access to resources to implement policies that can improve the environment and health of their citizens. Environmental factors can have an unequal effect on lower income and ethnic minority regions being exposed to environmental stressors and a lower quality of life.\n\nEnvironmental Health Policy is the combination between the environment and the health of citizens in a defined area. When defining Environmental Health policy it is best to break down the concept into three separate groups: environment, health and policy. The environment aspect of the term refers to the ecosystems and the environmental factors that can affect human health. Health refers to the human beings ability to function successfully when environmental factors are constantly changing. In its more simplistic definition, health is the overall well-being of a person. Policy is a \"course of action or principle adopted or proposed by a government, party, business, or individual\". Environmental Health Policy refers to the human impact on the environment, which in turn affects human health and requires policy action.\n\nOne environmental factor that contributes to the health of the global community is climate change. Climate change is the long term rising and/or dropping of temperatures and the deviation of weather patterns over time. As a result of climate change, the Canadian Arctic has increased in temperature by three or four degrees. As the warming of the Northern Arctic continues, a surplus of water enters the system. Whether the surplus is due to rain or melting snow, an increased amount of pathogens enter the fresh water.\n\nWith increasing weather extreme trends, vector and water-borne diseases, as well as allergies become more prevalent in these conditions. These infectious diseases and what accompanies them (mosquitoes, tics etc.) rely upon the environment to spread and survive. The reproduction and spread of these diseases are severely affected by weather fluctuations.\n\nAir pollution is another environmental factor that has been proven to be an influence on health. Air pollution has become a more serious issue in recent years as developing nations are experiencing a high birth rate and low death rate. The more people that are in these regions means the more resources required to sustain them. Air pollution comes in two forms; emission and transmission. These pollutants come from various sources, such as modes of transportation, the burning of fossil fuels, or naturally from the ground.\n\nRising sea levels is another environmental factor that affects the health of individuals in a given region. One of the reasons why sea levels begin to rise is due to the melting of large glacier ice. If the glacier icecaps start melting faster, sea levels will be affected. Another way that the sea levels rise is when temperatures increase, the water molecules expands and require more space. As sea levels start to rise, the shore line starts to expand. In serious situations, this causes people to become environmental refugees. As the sea level rises it starts to affect valuable land used for food and other harvesting. 200 million people is the amount of people that are at risk of flooding should the sea level rise 40 cm by the 2080s.\n\nThe health risks that are a result of the environment are starting to affect people around the globe. It is estimated that the increasing temperatures over the past 30 years have resulted in the deaths of 150,000 lives each year. Europe in the summer of 2003 experienced higher than normal temperatures resulting in the deaths of approximately 22,000 to 45,000 in the span of two weeks. This has been the worst effect of climate change in recent history. Increasing rates of extreme temperature are directly related to increased mortality. Some of the health risks that come with extreme temperatures are heat stress, cardio vascular failure, Hypothermia, etc.\n\nThe temperature affects the malaria parasites in the mosquitoes and its ability to incubate as well as how likely the mosquitoes are to blood feed. Mosquitoes thrive in the transmission of parasites where temperatures do not exceed 25 degrees Celsius. Excessive rain, which is becoming more frequent amongst many countries, acts as the perfect breeding site for the aquatic beginning of a mosquito's life. Malaria is a vector- borne disease that is extremely prevalent in Africa. The disease puts billions of people at risk of contracting the virus. Due to a lack of sufficient healthcare where the disease is most concentrated, many people die. The environment is a huge contributor to the success malaria has in transmitting the disease.\n\nOne of the more common health risks that people encounter is a result of air pollutants and air quality. Allergic Asthma is a chronic disease that affects individual's inflammatory system when they are exposed to allergens resulting in shortness of breath, wheezing, and coughing. Environmental factors such as, air pollutants, tobacco smoke, emission fumes, and other allergens in the air when absorbed through the body are said to have an influence on allergic asthma.\n\nClimate change can affect humans' respiratory health by aggravating respiratory disease or increasing exposure to potential risks of the disease. Climate change can affect the respiratory system by the amount of pollen and allergens in the air, mold proliferation, and the effects of the ozone layer. The increase of temperatures results in putting a strain on the respiratory system often causing asthma and other lung diseases. Some of the health risks that are closely related to the respiratory system are asthma, rhnosinusitis, respiratory tract infections, and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.\n\nThe Hamilton steel mill region has had higher levels of air pollution than the rest of the city. The effect of air pollution in the region has resulted in the spending of $537 million per year on health care and other associated costs. Many health issues that arise with air pollution in Hamilton is premature death, respiratory problems, and cardiovascular problems. Hamilton is taking the initiative to spread awareness around environmental issues with the implementation of yearly summits. Vision 2020 is a community based development program which encourages community reporting of environmental issues, which influences policy.\n\nIn 2005, the city of Rochester enacted a rental housing-based lead law when the incidence of childhood lead poisoning was rising. The new amendment to the housing code requires a lead inspection of rental properties built before 1978, with a focus on deteriorating paint within and outside the house. The law requires property owners to remove any lead based paint and dust from the premise and obtain a certificate of occupancy before they are able to rent out the property again. In order to keep compliance with the law, Rochester allows owners to be trained in lead safe repair work so Environmental Protection Agency workers are not required to correct violations.\n\nHarlem, along with many areas of the United States, have taken on a community based participatory research method to examine environmental health policy. The West Harlem Environmental ACTion Inc. and Columbia University's Centre for Children's Environmental Health studied the effects of diesel pollution on the environment, and provided the results to the government, which transformed their environmental health policies to accommodate the results. Respiratory health was the main concern for the policy change, which was traced back to particular matter and carbon within local diesel sources. Harlem reconstructed their bus fleet system by using clean diesel and installation of permanent air monitors to control the amount of air pollution created by buses.\n\nThe metropolitan area of São Paulo has dealt with issues of air and water pollution created by motor vehicles and inadequate treatment of sewage. Infectious and parasitic diseases, circulatory diseases, and respiratory problems have all been a concern in São Paulo. The city uses data linkages (HEADLAMP) between the environment and health in order to influence future policies. Air pollution has been improved marginally in regards to industrial pollution, but motor vehicle traffic creates the largest amount of sulphur dioxide emissions. Water treatment plants have not grown to accommodate the growing population, but piped water and sanitation facilities have been expanding. Impacts of the environment on health have been felt more in the poorer areas of the city compared to the wealthier sectors.\n\nCanada has dealt with lead exposure for decades, decreasing since the 1970s with the phasing out of lead paint and gasoline. While there has been a decrease in lead poisoning, there is still cases of exposure to lead from paint and old pipes in homes. Lead exposure is more harmful for pregnant women and children, making them more prone to poisoning. Lead was listed as a toxic substance under the Canadian Environmental Protection Act. The government implemented regulations against lead to foster a healthy environment.\n\nThe First Nations and Inuit Health Branch attempts to ensure that these communities are given equal access to health services comparable to those in similar locations of Canada. Health Canada defines a health environment to include safe water, food, maintained housing and facilities, disposal of waste, and the ability to prevent and control disease. The Environmental Public Health Program is implemented in several aboriginal communities, customized to specific needs including food security, clean water sources, and improving poor housing conditions.\n\nThe United States has several policies to deal with chemical exposure, air quality, energy, oil pollution, and safe drinking water. Public exposure to chemicals can have effects on the body including cancer, cardiovascular disease, asthma and obesity. Those who work in industrial and agriculture sectors are more prone to exposure, but children, pregnant women, and those with chronic medical conditions are also at a higher risk of exposure. The United States has implemented the Toxic Substances Control Act to deal with chemical exposure and ensure chemicals are safe and citizens are minimally affected.\n\nThe EPA is developing clean diesel fuels and biodiesel to deal with air pollution caused by motor vehicle emissions. These types of emissions can affect respiratory health, risk of cancer, and increased medical costs of the population. In 2013, transportation was more than half on carbon monoxide and nitrogen oxides produced in the environment. The country has also implemented vehicle emission standards to cut pollution from motor vehicles.\n\nNorway has several environmental regulations dealing with pollution, air quality, and water. There are also policies in place to protect citizen's health and well-being in general, and in the workplace. Workplaces must ensure they have measures to prevent or contain pollution, along with voluntarily preparing environmental impact statements that are available to pollution control authority. If facilities produce carbon dioxide emissions, then they must apply for a discharge permit, and have to report yearly emissions to pollution control authorities. Norway attempts to protect its water sources from contamination by ensuring facilities implement measures that cause the least amount of harm or inconvenience to the public or corporations. The government puts policies in place to ensure the safety of employee health at all levels, and takes action on any hazards within the workplace that would put health at risk.\n\nAir quality in Turkey is currently at levels that are considered harmful to human health. Lung capacity growth of children is diminished in areas of high air pollution, which can increase chances of lung disease. Risks to lung health include asthma, Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease, lung cancer, and emphysema which can be intensified by poor air quality. Coal power in Turkey has been a critical factor of air pollution. The power plants release sulfur dioxide, nitrogen oxides, and mercury, which can last in the environment for up to forty years. The Turkish Medical Association expressed concerns about increasing the amount of coal plants in Turkey, and suggested a phasing out of coal plants to increase air quality in the country to safe levels.\n\nThe Ministry of Environment and Ministry of Health have coordinated with agencies and scientific institutions to understand environmental health issues. Germany has had a long history of environmental health policies in order to maintain the well being of citizens. Policies are based on scientific research and collaboration between ministries, but environmental health policies are often not on the policy agenda since it is relatively well controlled.\n\nIn 2011, policies were adopted to phase out nuclear energy in the country after Fukushima nuclear disaster. Air pollution increased to the highest levels since the 1980s due to increased coal burning, putting the population at risk for chronic diseases associated with air pollution. Mining in the country had also resulted in water pollution that affects human and animal health. Coal mining has been linked to environmental and health issues, leading the government to close all mining pits by 2018. Germany has been a leading actor in dealing with carbon emissions related to climate change through policies to reduce use of resources and efficient use of renewable energy sources.\n\nChina has large-scale mineral resources and is one of the biggest producers and consumers of metals and metalloids. Since the 1980s, they have seen an increase in pollution and degradation of natural resources, putting the health of the population at risk. Air pollution is the biggest environmental cause of cardiopulmonary disease in the country. The Asian countries are looking to research environmental factors to better understand how it affects health.\n\nChina's mines have produced heavy metal polluted soils that pose a risk to human health. Those living around the area of the mines are especially at risk of the carcinogenic and non-carcinogenic risks of the soil. The main dangers come from sewage irrigation, sludge application, mining, and smelting operations. This pollution affects the human body by harming the nervous, skeletal, circulatory, enzymatic, endocrine, and immune system. More chronic effects can include cancer, bone fractures, hypertension, lesions, and neuropathy. China has conducted very few health risk assessment studies of all mines in the country, so full health risks associated with the mines are unknown.\n\nIn the mining communities of India, the population is at risk of respiratory illness and malaria. Those who live closer to the mines reported higher incidences of these illnesses. This has influenced environmental policy because mining is a profitable business that can be privatized, but with adverse effects on health they have been required to balance human and ecological health.\n\nIndia has also seen difficulty providing access to drinking water and sanitation services in rural areas. Community demand-driven programmes have been implemented since 2004 which required improvements in water supply, sanitation, and hygiene. This was an effort to improve children's health, and reduce diarrhoea and water-related illnesses. Only 21% of the rural population was using a private tap, the other percentage commuted to obtain water. Only 12% used private toilets, the others travelled to a main sanitation site. The implemented program was able to increase access to filtered water, private toilets, and increased hygiene.\n\nIn 2014, Nigeria implemented the WHO Country Cooperation Strategy to deal with Millennium Development Goals. A strategic objective of the policy was to assess health effects of environmental risks by conducting health impact assessments. The government also plans to increase countries abilities to deal with environmental emergencies including climate change, air pollution, and radiation that could be harmful to health. The strategy focuses on creating policies to improve medicine, universal access to health care, and reduction in diseases caused by the environment.\n\nIn 2016, the Kenya government introduced the new Kenya Environmental Sanitation and Hygiene Policy. Poor sanitation has been a leading cause of mortality in the country. The new policy created a timeline from 2016-2030 in which guidelines were set for state and non-state actors to follow to improve sanitation and create a better quality of life. The aim is to have universal access to sanitation by 2030. This includes all public places and dwellings having access to sustainable toilets, free from odours, and reducing hygiene related diseases. Currently, about 72% of toilets in rural Kenya are dug pits and open defecation occurs. The amount of sanitation sewers is very low, with most not being treated. Sewage bursts and discharge of raw sewage from plants is a common practice, contaminating the earth and water supply. Air pollution in urban centres is also a concern. In Nairobi, pollution levels are three times higher than World Health Organization recommendations. Urbanization is projected to increase in the next decade, so the government has created Kenya Vision 2030 in attempts to deal with sanitation practices in the country. Kenya Visions wants to make Kenya a newly industrialized, middle-income country with a high quality of life for its citizens.\n\nIn 2006, the World Health Organization created a study on specific diseases and injuries affected by environmental risks, and which regions of the world are at the most risk of injury. WHO studies the effects and supports the design of preventative and health strategies in countries to reduce environmental health risks. Environmental factors such as air and water quality, patterns of energy use, and patterns of land use can directly and indirectly affect health of citizens. WHO's findings found that 24% of global disease and 23% of deaths are caused by environmental factors (although they vary from developing countries with 25%, and developed with 17%). Several diseases found in the study included diarrhea, respiratory infections, malaria, and unintentional injuries caused by environmental factors that can be modified by policy. Infectious diseases is a higher burden in developing countries than in developed, attributed to more exposure to environmental risks and lack of access to health care. Diseases attributed to environmental factors decrease with development to either eradication, or to levels comparable to developed regions. Children are disproportionately affected by environmental hazards. WHO found that children under the age of five are more prone to diseases from environmental factors than the rest of the total population.\n\nWHO has supported the United Nation's Millennium Development Goals to provide sustainable access to safe drinking water. The benefits to the MDG's is savings in health care, economic productivity, and fewer lives lost from diseases caused by contaminated water.\n\nIn 2000, the Millennium Development Goals (MDG) were created at the UN Millennium Declaration. Leaders from all over the world gathered in aims to reduce poverty by 2015 in developing countries. Eight goals were created in order to deal with extreme poverty due to climate, shelter, and disease, and ensure everyone has the right to health, education, shelter, and security.\n\nSustainable Development Goals (SDG) were created to replace the MDG, which are to be reached by 2030. These goals are aimed at both developing and developed countries, using environmental, social, and economic dimensions to meet goals. Goals 3, 6, and 11 affect environmental health policy. Goal 3 is to ensure good health and well-being, which affects other goals. If environmental goals are achieved, the health of the country will be able to improve by reducing disease and death. Goal 11 of creating sustainable cities and communities is important to environmental health policy since urbanization is a big concern that can affect resources including water, which affects the health of the population. Goal 6 aims to provide clean water and sanitation in countries. Wastewater treatment in countries is an issue that the SDG goals are trying to influence countries to improve and provide better access to clean drinking water and sanitation.\n"}
{"id": "29995239", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29995239", "title": "Ethnic media", "text": "Ethnic media\n\nEthnic media is media fashioned with a particular ethnic minority group or ethnic minority community in mind.\n\nAcademic Yu Shi tenders an operational definition for ethnic media: “Ethnic media are often regarded as media \"by and for\" ethnics in a host country with content in ethnic languages.\" Shi also adds, ethnic media “can be published by big ethnic media groups and by small organic ethnic communities”, as well.\n\nPractitioner Inga Buchbinder of New America Media adds, “Our organization defines it most as a publication, whether that’s news, television, radio, online, print, magazine--any sort of publication that caters to a specific ethnic community. And it could be in-language…or it could be bilingual that reaches a very specific community.”\n\nIn addition to news, television, radio, online, print, and magazine outlets that qualify as ethnic media, academic John D.H. Downing adds musical culture and forms of religious expression to the ethnic media mix. Downing finds, “these may, along with language and dialect, act as a media force somewhere between shock absorption and psychic validation in the often fraught atmosphere between the ethnic majority and ethnic minorities.”\n\nDowning finds that ethnic media tends to circulate, “within at least three different sectors, namely, indigenous nations and communities, recent migrants…and settled subordinate ethnic groups.”\n\nAnalogous to the debate as to \"what\" qualifying factors constitute alternative media, the domain of \"what\" qualifying factors that classify a respective ethnic media outlet as an alternative media outlet is also, at play.\n\nThus, ethnic media is not by definitional default alternative media.\n\nAgain, the work of academics and grassroots practitioners, such as John D.H. Downing, Yu Shi, Clemencia Rodriguez, and Inga Buchbinder of New America Media provide definitional assistance for this complex and overdetermined zone. Discernment of whether or not a respective ethnic media outlet qualifies as an alternative media outlet is dependent upon the outstanding contextual information, and should be assessed on a case by case evaluation.\n\nYu Shi’s work puts forth a seven-pronged test for evaluating the “alternative media role” of ethnic media in the United States: “reference has to be made to their (1) individual place of origin, (2) historical evolution, (3) production process, (4) distribution pattern, (5) ownership, (6) self-identity (non-profit or for-profit; alternative or commercial; or in between), and (7) connection to power groups in local and transnational settings.”\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9823090", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9823090", "title": "Figments of Reality", "text": "Figments of Reality\n\nFigments of Reality: The Evolution of the Curious Mind (1997) is a book about the evolution of the intelligent and conscious human mind by biologist Jack Cohen and mathematician Ian Stewart.\n\nIn this book Cohen and Stewart give their ideas on how the sentient human being evolved. Various chapters discuss scientific and\nphilosophical ideas such as emergence and chaos, free will, perception versus reality, objectivity versus subjectivity, self-awareness, the ego and id, groupthink, and extelligence. A theme is that the traditional reductionist approach of trying to understand things as interaction of simpler things can not alone explain such complex concepts as intelligence or culture. To better understand them one has to consider also the context in which they have evolved and the fact that the evolution is a recursive process, often changing the context so that previously unseen evolutionary paths became available. The authors claim that intelligence is an inevitable result of letting evolution progress for long enough.\n\nTopics are illustrated with humorous science fiction snippets dealing with a hypothetical alien intelligence, the Zarathustrians, whom Cohen and Stewart use as metaphors of the human mind itself, an alternative evolution story, and various philosophical concepts.\n\n"}
{"id": "50047095", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50047095", "title": "Gender pay gap in India", "text": "Gender pay gap in India\n\nGender pay gap in India refers to the difference in earnings between women and men in the paid employment and labor market. For the year 2013, the gender pay gap in India was estimated to be 24.81%. Further, while analyzing the level of female participation in the economy, this report slots India as one of the bottom 10 countries on its list. Thus, in addition to unequal pay, there is also unequal representation, because while women constitute almost half the Indian population (about 48% of the total), their representation in the work force amounts to only about one-fourth of the total.\n\nThe female labor participation rate in India from 1901 to 1951 was between 28 and 34 percent, which is higher than the level of participation observed in 1990. This rate also varies from state to state. Regions in northern India (which have been observed to be more patriarchal) have lower participation rates for women than the states in southern India, where women have more freedom to participate in the formal economy. SEWA (the Self Employed Women’s Association) recently found that the average wage of women workers was Rs. 1815 while the average wage for men was Rs. 3842.\n\nSome of the main factors that contribute to the existing gender pay gap in India are:\n\nThe rate of female participation in the paid labor market is generally low, and is primarily concentrated in rural areas in the agricultural sector. In rural north India, it has been observed that labor is divided sharply on the basis of gender. Certain activities in agriculture have been assigned specifically to women, like drying and storing the grain, while other tasks like plowing and harvesting are only performed by men. Female labor participation in India has been observed to be higher in sectors involving personal services and care work, and is also higher in informal sectors, especially in agriculture.\n\nWhile social and cultural norms vary from state to state within India, one commonality that has been observed is the exclusion of women from the paid labor market and status based segregation of labor. Ironically, women from higher castes faced more difficulty when they tried to obtain paid work, even if their survival depended on it. In interviews conducted with widows from rural North India, they stated that if attempts were made to seek gainful employment outside their homes, they would be forced to give up their property rights and made to leave the villages they live in, indicating that paid work was not a feasible option even to sustain themselves due to the existing social norms. Because childcare is viewed primarily as a woman's job, women often take part-time jobs or take time off during their careers to care for their families. When women return to work after a break, they are paid lower wages than their male colleagues. Women employed full-time ordinarily already earned 34% less than men, but when compared to part-time working women, the pay gap further increased as they earned almost 42% less than men. Additionally, even if women do not have children, it has been observed that they still face pay discrimination as they are viewed as potential mothers, who may require a break from work in the near future.\n\nThe literacy rate for women in India is far lower than the rate for men, and it has been observed that many girls drop out of school and fail to fully complete their education. Investment in education and training has also been strongly in favor of men as they are brought up with the expectation of being bread earners, and hence this investment is considered necessary for their success, while women are instead viewed as \"future homemakers\" for whom education may not be as essential.\n\nAccording to the Human Development Report 1995, women spend about two-thirds of their working time on unpaid work, while men spend only one-fourth of their time towards unpaid labor. It has been estimated in India that women on average work twenty-one more hours than men during each week. Agriculture currently accounts for over two-thirds of the current employment in India, but most of the work women contribute to this sector is not accounted for or officially documented.\n\nIndia has been a permanent member of the ILO Governing Body from 1922. In September 1958, India ratified the C100 Equal Remuneration Convention, 1951 (No. 100), which addressed the issue of equal pay between men and women for work of equal value. This convention requires all member states to direct their national laws and policies towards guaranteeing equal remuneration to all workers, regardless of gender. In an attempt to ensure compliance with this convention and in response to the Report by the Committee on status of women in India, the government enacted the Equal Remuneration Act.\n\nIn 1976, the Equal Remuneration Act was passed with the aim of providing equal remuneration to men and women workers and to prevent discrimination on the basis of gender in all matters relating to employment and employment opportunities. This legislation not only provides women with a right to demand equal pay, but any inequality with respect to recruitment processes, job training, promotions, and transfers within the organization can also be challenged under this Act. However, its scope does not extend to situations where: (i) a woman is attempting to comply with the requirements of laws giving women special treatment; and (ii) a woman is being accorded special treatment on account of the birth of a child, or the terms and conditions relating to retirement, marriage or death. Companies and individual employers can both be held accountable to maintain the standards prescribed under this Act. In various cases, the Supreme Court of India has also held that discrimination on the basis of gender only arises when men and women perform the same work or work of a similar nature. However, it clarified that a flexible approach is required to be taken while deciding which kinds of work may be similar by considering the duties actually performed as a part of the job, and not the duties potentially capable of being performed.\n\nAs part of its Directive Principles of State Policy, the Constitution of India through Article 39 envisages that all states ideally direct their policy towards securing equal pay for equal work for both men and women, and also ensuring that men and women have the right to an adequate means of livelihood. While these Directive Principles are not enforceable by any court of law, they are crucial to the governance of the country and a state is duty bound to consider them while enacting laws.\n\nWhile “equal pay for equal work” is not expressly a constitutional right, it has been read into the Constitution through the interpretation of Articles 14, 15 and 16 – which guarantee equality before the law, protection against discrimination and equality of opportunity in matters of public employment. The Supreme Court of India has also declared this to be a constitutional goal, available to every individual and capable of being attained through the enforcement of their fundamental rights set out in Articles 14 through 16. In a popular Supreme Court decision, the conditions of employment of the air-hostesses of Air India was challenged. The terms of employment required the mandatory retirement of females: (i) upon attaining the age of 33; (ii) if they were married within four years of service; or (iii) upon their first pregnancy. The court however struck down these provisions and held them to be arbitrary and discriminatory as it violated Articles 14, 15 and 16 of the Constitution.\n\nWhile legislation like the Maternity Benefit Act, 1961 and the Factories Act, 1948 do not directly address the issue of equal pay for equal work, they provide certain additional benefits a woman can claim. The Maternity Benefit Act applies to all establishments with more than ten employees. However, in states where the Employees’ State Insurance Act applies, employers no longer have any liability under the Maternity Benefit Act. Under this Act, a pregnant woman worker is entitled to 12 weeks of fully paid maternity leave, and six weeks in case of miscarriage or termination of pregnancy. Pregnant women also have the right to not perform physically arduous work, which may affect their pregnancy, and no deductions can be made from their wages because of this. Additionally, as per the Factories Act, employers are required to provide childcare for children under 6 years old at all worksites that employ over 30 women.\n\nThe gender pay gap varies across Indian states, and is the highest in the following states:\nUttarakhand on the other hand is the state with the lowest percentage of gender pay gap, with females earning only 9% less than men. Punjab and Uttar Pradesh are also states with a lower gender pay gap, following with 10% and 15%, respectively.\n\nThe gender pay gap in India increases with an increase in educational qualifications. While comparing men and women who had only completed high-school level education, it was observed that women earned 10.34% less than men. Women who had gone to college for four to five years or who had received advanced degrees earned around 30% less than their male counterparts. With an increase in the level of education, where women had obtained a Master's degree of a Ph.D equivalent, it was observed that the gender pay gap ranged between 44% to 46%.\n\nResearch suggests that when countries are able to raise the female labor participation rate, this stands to benefit the entire economy. Apart from potential GDP growth, equal employment opportunities for women could also result in increased growth and profitability in the private sector. In countries where the population is aging quickly, an increase in the female labor participation rate would help offset the negative effects of a declining workforce. It is also important to note that women in India perform 9.8 times the amount of labor in the unpaid sector either through household duties or care work. If this work was measured and valued, it was estimated by McKinsey that it would contribute 0.3 trillion dollars to India’s total economic output.\n\n"}
{"id": "50607905", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50607905", "title": "History of women in the United Kingdom", "text": "History of women in the United Kingdom\n\nHistory of women in the United Kingdom covers the social, cultural and political roles of women in Britain over the last two millennia.\nMedieval England was a patriarchal society and the lives of women were heavily influenced by contemporary beliefs about gender and authority. However, the position of women varied according to factors including their social class; whether they were unmarried, married, widowed or remarried; and in which part of the country they lived. Henrietta Leyser argues that women had much informal power in their homes and communities, although they were of officially subordinate to men. She identifies a deterioration the status of women in the Middle Ages, although they retained strong roles in culture and spirituality.\n\nSignificant gender inequities persisted throughout the period, as women typically had more limited life-choices, access to employment and trade, and legal rights than men. After the Norman invasion, the position of women in society changed. The rights and roles of women became more sharply defined, in part as a result of the development of the feudal system and the expansion of the English legal system; some women benefited from this, while others lost out. The rights of widows were formally laid down in law by the end of the twelfth century, clarifying the right of free women to own property, but this did not necessarily prevent women from being forcibly remarried against their wishes. The growth of governmental institutions under a succession of bishops reduced the role of queens and their households in formal government. Married or widowed noblewomen remained significant cultural and religious patrons and played an important part in political and military events, even if chroniclers were uncertain if this was appropriate behaviour. As in earlier centuries, most women worked in agriculture, but here roles became more clearly gendered, with ploughing and managing the fields defined as men's work, for example, and dairy production becoming dominated by women.\n\nIn medieval times, women had responsibility for brewing and selling the ale that men all drank. By 1600, men had taken over that role. The reasons include commercial growth, gild formation, changing technologies, new regulations, and widespread prejudices that associated female brewsters with drunkenness and disorder. The taverns still use women to serve it, a low-status, low-skilled, and poorly remunerated tasks.\n\nWhile the Tudor era presents an abundance of material on the women of the nobility—especially royal wives and queens—historians have recovered scant documentation about the average lives of women. There has, however, been extensive statistical analysis of demographic and population data which includes women, especially in their childbearing roles.\n\nThe role of women in society was, for the historical era, relatively unconstrained; Spanish and Italian visitors to England commented regularly, and sometimes caustically, on the freedom that women enjoyed in England, in contrast to their home cultures. England had more well-educated upper class women than was common anywhere in Europe.\n\nThe Queen's marital status was a major political and diplomatic topic. It also entered into the popular culture. Elizabeth's unmarried status inspired a cult of virginity. In poetry and portraiture, she was depicted as a virgin or a goddess or both, not as a normal woman. Elizabeth made a virtue of her virginity: in 1559, she told the Commons, \"And, in the end, this shall be for me sufficient, that a marble stone shall declare that a queen, having reigned such a time, lived and died a virgin\". Public tributes to the Virgin by 1578 acted as a coded assertion of opposition to the queen's marriage negotiations with the Duc d'Alençon.\n\nIn contrast to her father's emphasis on masculinity and physical prowess, Elizabeth emphasized the maternalism theme, saying often that she was married to her kingdom and subjects. She explained \"I keep the good will of all my husbands — my good people — for if they did not rest assured of some special love towards them, they would not readily yield me such good obedience,\" and promised in 1563 they would never have a more natural mother than she. Coch (1996) argues that her figurative motherhood played a central role in her complex self-representation, shaping and legitimating the personal rule of a divinely appointed female prince.\n\nAlthough medical men did not approve, women healers played a significant role in the medical care of Londoners from cradle to grave during the Elizabethan era. They were hired by parishes and hospitals, as well as by private families. They played central roles in the delivery of nursing care as well as medical, pharmaceutical, and surgical services throughout the city as part of organized systems of health care. Women's medical roles continue to expand in the 17th century, especially regarding care of paupers. They operated nursing homes for the homeless and sick poor, and also looked after abandoned and orphaned children, pregnant women, and lunatics. After 1700, the workhouse movement undermined many of these roles and the parish nurse became restricted largely to the rearing and nursing of children and infants.\n\nOver ninety percent of English women (and adults, in general) entered marriage in this era at an average age of about 25–26 years for the bride and 27–28 years for the groom. Among the nobility and gentry, the average was around 19-21 for brides and 24-26 for grooms. Many city and townswomen married for the first time in their thirties and forties and it was not unusual for orphaned young women to delay marriage until the late twenties or early thirties to help support their younger siblings, and roughly a fourth of all English brides were pregnant at their weddings.\n\nIn England, Scotland, Wales, and Ireland there was a succession of Witchcraft Acts starting with Henry VIII's Act of 1542. They governed witchcraft and providing penalties for its practice, or—in 1735—rather for pretending to practise it.\n\nIn Wales, fear of witchcraft mounted around the year 1500. There was a growing alarm of women's magic as a weapon aimed against the state and church. The Church made greater efforts to enforce the canon law of marriage, especially in Wales where tradition allowed a wider range of sexual partnerships. There was a political dimension as well, as accusations of witchcraft were levied against the enemies of Henry VII, who was exerting more and more control over Wales.\n\nThe records of the Courts of Great Sessions for Wales, 1536-1736 show that Welsh custom was more important than English law. Custom provided a framework of responding to witches and witchcraft in such a way that interpersonal and communal harmony was maintained, Showing to regard to the importance of honour, social place and cultural status. Even when found guilty, execution did not occur.\n\nBecoming king in 1603, James I brought to England and Scotland continental explanations of witchcraft. He set out the much stiffer Witchcraft Act of 1604, which made it a felony under common law. One goal was to divert suspicion away from male homosociality among the elite, and focus fear on female communities and large gatherings of women. He thought they threatened his political power so he laid the foundation for witchcraft and occultism policies, especially in Scotland. The point was that a widespread belief in the conspiracy of witches and a witches' Sabbath with the devil deprived women of political influence. Occult power was supposedly a womanly trait because women were weaker and more susceptible to the devil.\n\nEnlightenment attitudes after 1700 made a mockery of beliefs in witches. The Witchcraft Act of 1735 marked a complete reversal in attitudes. Penalties for the practice of witchcraft as traditionally constituted, which by that time was considered by many influential figures to be an impossible crime, were replaced by penalties for the pretence of witchcraft. A person who claimed to have the power to call up spirits, or foretell the future, or cast spells, or discover the whereabouts of stolen goods, was to be punished as a vagrant and a con artist, subject to fines and imprisonment.\n\nHistorians Keith Thomas and his student Alan Macfarlane revolutionized the study of witchcraft by combining historical research with concepts drawn from anthropology. They argued that English witchcraft, like African witchcraft, was endemic rather than epidemic. Older women were the favorite targets because they were marginal, dependent members of the community and therefore more likely to arouse feelings of both hostility and guilt, and less likely to have defenders of importance inside the community. Witchcraft accusations were the village's reaction to the breakdown of its internal community, coupled with the emergence of a newer set of values that was generating psychic stress.\n\nThe Reformation closed the convents and monasteries, and called on former monks and nuns to marry. Lay women shared in the religiosity of the Reformation. In Scotland the egalitarian and emotional aspects of Calvinism appealed to men and women alike. Historian Alasdair Raffe finds that, \"Men and women were thought equally likely to be among the elect...Godly men valued the prayers and conversation of their female co-religionists, and this reciprocity made for loving marriages and close friendships between men and women.\" Furthermore, there was an increasingly intense relationship In the pious bonds between minister and his women parishioners. For the first time, laywomen gained numerous new religious roles, and took a prominent place in prayer societies.\n\nWomen's historians have debated the impact of the Industrial Revolution and capitalism generally on the status of women. Taking a pessimistic view, Alice Clark argued that when capitalism arrived in 17th century England, it made a negative impact on the status of women as they lost much of their economic importance. Clark argues that in 16th century England, women were engaged in many aspects of industry and agriculture. The home was a central unit of production and women played a vital role in running farms, and in operating some trades and landed estates. For example, they brewed beer, handled the milk and butter, raised chickens and pigs, grew vegetables and fruit, spun flax and wool into thread, sewed and patched clothing, and nursed the sick. Their useful economic roles gave them a sort of equality with their husbands. However, Clark argues, as capitalism expanded in the 17th century, there was more and more division of labor with the husband taking paid labor jobs outside the home, and the wife reduced to unpaid household work. Middle-class women were confined to an idle domestic existence, supervising servants; lower-class women were forced to take poorly paid jobs. Capitalism, therefore, had a negative effect on more powerful women. In a more positive interpretation, Ivy Pinchbeck argues that capitalism created the conditions for women's emancipation. Louise Tilly and Joan Wallach Scott have emphasized the continuity and the status of women, finding three stages in European history. In the preindustrial era, production was mostly for home use and women produce much of the needs of the households. The second stage was the \"family wage economy\" of early industrialization, the entire family depended on the collective wages of its members, including husband, wife and older children. The third or modern stage is the \"family consumer economy,\" in which the family is the site of consumption, and women are employed in large numbers in retail and clerical jobs to support rising standards of consumption.\n\nIn the Victorian era, fertility rates increased in every decade until 1901, when the rates started evening out. There are several reasons for the increase in birth rates. One is biological: with improving living standards, the percentage of women who were able to have children increased. Another possible explanation is social. In the 19th century, the marriage rate increased, and people were getting married at a very young age until the end of the century, when the average age of marriage started to increase again slowly. The reasons why people got married younger and more frequently are uncertain. One theory is that greater prosperity allowed people to finance marriage and new households earlier than previously possible. With more births within marriage, it seems inevitable that marriage rates and birth rates would rise together.\n\nThe evening out of fertility rates at the beginning of the 20th century was mainly the result of a few big changes: availability of forms of birth control, and changes in people's attitude towards sex.\n\nThe Victorian era is famous for the Victorian standards of personal morality. Historians generally agree that the middle classes held high personal moral standards (and usually followed them), but have debated whether the working classes followed suit. Moralists in the late 19th century such as Henry Mayhew decried the slums for their supposed high levels of cohabitation without marriage and illegitimate births. However new research using computerized matching of data files shows that the rates of cohabitation were quite low—under 5%—for the working class and the poor. By contrast in 21st century Britain, nearly half of all children are born outside marriage, and nine in ten newlyweds have been cohabitating.\n\nHistorians have begun to analyze the agency of women in overseas missions. At first, missionary societies officially enrolled only men, but women increasingly insisted on playing a variety of roles. Single women typically worked as educators. Wives assisted their missionary husbands in most of his roles. Advocates stopped short of calling for the end of specified gender roles, but they stressed the interconnectedness of the public and private spheres and spoke out against perceptions of women as weak and house-bound.\n\nThe middle class typically had one or more servants to handle cooking, cleaning and child care, Industrialisation brought with it a rapidly growing middle class whose increase in numbers had a significant effect on the social strata itself: cultural norms, lifestyle, values and morality. Identifiable characteristics came to define the middle class home and lifestyle. Previously, in town and city, residential space was adjacent to or incorporated into the work site, virtually occupying the same geographical space. The difference between private life and commerce was a fluid one distinguished by an informal demarcation of function. In the Victorian era, English family life increasingly became compartmentalised, the home a self-contained structure housing a nuclear family extended according to need and circumstance to include blood relations. The concept of \"privacy\" became a hallmark of the middle class life. \n\nDomestic life for a working-class family meant the housewife had to handle the chores servants did in wealthier families. A working-class wife was responsible for keeping her family as clean, warm, and dry as possible in housing stock that was often literally rotting around them. In London, overcrowding was endemic in the slums; a family living in one room was common. Rents were high in London; half of working-class households paid one-quarter to one-half of their income on rent.\n\nDomestic chores for women without servants meant a great deal of washing and cleaning. Coal-dust from home stoves and factories filled the city air, coating windows, clothing, furniture and rugs. Washing clothing and linens meant scrubbing by hand in a large zinc or copper tub. Some water would be heated and added to the wash tub, and perhaps a handful of soda to soften the water. Curtains were taken down and washed every fortnight; they were often so blackened by coal smoke that they had to be soaked in salted water before being washed. Scrubbing the front wooden doorstep of the home every morning was done to maintain respectability.\n\nOpportunities for leisure activities increased dramatically as real wages continued to grow and hours of work continued to decline. In urban areas, the nine-hour workday became increasingly the norm; the 1874 Factory Act limited the workweek to 56.5 hours, encouraging the movement toward an eventual eight-hour workday. Helped by the Bank Holiday Act of 1871, which created a number of fixed holidays, a system of routine annual vacations came into play, starting with white-collar workers and moving into the working-class. Some 200 seaside resorts emerged thanks to cheap hotels and inexpensive railway fares, widespread banking holidays and the fading of many religious prohibitions against secular activities on Sundays. Middle-class Victorians used the train services to visit the seaside, Large numbers travelling to quiet fishing villages such as Worthing, Brighton, Morecambe and Scarborough began turning them into major tourist centres, and people like Thomas Cook saw tourism and even overseas travel as viable businesses.\n\nBy the late Victorian era, the leisure industry had emerged in all cities with many women in attendance. It provided scheduled entertainment of suitable length at convenient locales at inexpensive prices. These included sporting events, music halls, and popular theater. Women were now allowed in some sports, such as archery, tennis, badminton and gymnastics.\n\nThe advent of Reformism during the 19th century opened new opportunities for reformers to address issues facing women and launched the feminist movement. The first organised movement for British women's suffrage was the Langham Place Circle of the 1850s, led by Barbara Bodichon (\"née\" Leigh-Smith) and Bessie Rayner Parkes. They also campaigned for improved female rights in the law, employment, education, and marriage.\n\nProperty owning women and widows had been allowed to vote in some local elections, but that ended in 1835. The Chartist Movement was a large-scale demand for suffrage—but it meant \"manhood\" suffrage. Upper-class women could exert a little backstage political influence in high society. However, in divorce cases, rich women lost control of their children.\n\nBefore 1839, after divorce rich women lost control of their children as those children would continue in the family unit with the father, as head of the household, and who continued to be responsible for them. Caroline Norton was one such woman, her personal tragedy where she was denied access to her three sons after a divorce, led her to a life of intense campaigning which successfully led to the passing of the Custody of Infants Act 1839 and then introduced the Tender years doctrine for child custody arrangement. The Act gave women, for the first time, a right to their children and gave some discretion to the judge in a child custody cases. Under the doctrine the Act also established a presumption of maternal custody for children under the age of seven years maintaining the responsibility for financial support to the father. In 1873 due to additional pressure from woman, the Parliament extended the presumption of maternal custody until a child reached sixteen. The doctrine spread in many states of the world because of the British Empire.\n\nTraditionally, poor people used desertion, and (for poor men) even the practice of selling wives in the market, as a substitute for divorce. In Britain before 1857 wives were under the economic and legal control of their husbands, and divorce was almost impossible. It required a very expensive private act of Parliament costing perhaps £200, of the sort only the richest could possibly afford. It was very difficult to secure divorce on the grounds of adultery, desertion, or cruelty. The first key legislative victory came with the Matrimonial Causes Act of 1857. It passed over the strenuous opposition of the highly traditional Church of England. The new law made divorce a civil affair of the courts, rather than a Church matter, with a new civil court in London handling all cases. The process was still quite expensive, at about £40, but now became feasible for the middle class. A woman who obtained a judicial separation took the status of a \"feme sole,\" with full control of her own civil rights. Additional amendments came in 1878, which allowed for separations handled by local justices of the peace. The Church of England blocked further reforms until the final breakthrough came with the Matrimonial Causes Act 1973.\n\nA series of four laws called the Married Women's Property Act passed Parliament from 1870 to 1882 that effectively removed the restrictions that kept wealthy married women from controlling their own property. They now had practically equal status with their husbands, and a status superior to women anywhere else in Europe. Working class women were protected by a series of laws passed on the assumption that they (like children) did not have full bargaining power and needed protection by the government.\n\nBullough argues that prostitution in 18th-century Britain was a convenience to men of all social statuses, and economic necessity for many poor women, and was tolerated by society. The evangelical movement of the nineteenth century denounced the prostitutes and their clients as sinners, and denounced society for tolerating it. Prostitution, according to the values of the Victorian middle-class, was a horrible evil, for the young women, for the men, and for all of society. Parliament in the 1860s in the Contagious Diseases Acts (\"CD\") adopted the French system of licensed prostitution. The \"regulationist policy\" was to isolate, segregate, and control prostitution. The main goal was to protect working men, soldiers and sailors near ports and army bases from catching venereal disease. Young women officially became prostitutes and were trapped for life in the system. After a nationwide crusade led by Josephine Butler and the Ladies National Association for the Repeal of the Contagious Diseases Acts, Parliament repealed the acts and ended legalised prostitution. Butler became a sort of saviour to the girls she helped free. The age of consent for young women was raised from 12 to 16, undercutting the supply of young prostitutes who were in highest demand. The new moral code meant that respectable men dared not be caught.\n\nThe rapid growth of factories opened jobbed opportunities for unskilled and semiskilled women and light industries, such as textiles, clothing, and food production. There was an enormous popular and literary interest, as well as scientific interest, in the new status of women workers. In Scotland St Andrews University pioneered the admission of women to universities, creating the Lady Licentiate in Arts (LLA), which proved highly popular. From 1892 Scottish universities could admit and graduate women and the numbers of women at Scottish universities steadily increased until the early 20th century.\n\nAmbitious middle-class women faced enormous challenges and the goals of entering suitable careers, such as nursing, teaching, law and medicine. The loftier their ambition, the greater the challenge. Physicians kept tightly shut the door to medicine; there were a few places for woman as lawyers, but none as clerics.\n\nIn the 1870s a new employment role opened for women in libraries; it was said that the tasks were \"Eminently Suited to Girls and Women.\" By 1920, women and men were equally numerous in the library profession, but women pulled ahead by 1930 and comprised 80% by 1960. The factors accounting for the transition included the demographic losses of the First World War, the provisions of the Public Libraries Act of 1919, the library-building activity of the Carnegie United Kingdom Trust, and the library employment advocacy of the Central Bureau for the Employment of Women.\n\nTeaching was not quite as easy to break into, but the low salaries were less of the barrier to the single woman then to the married man. By the late 1860s a number of schools were preparing women for careers as governesses or teachers. The census reported in 1851 that 70,000 women in England and Wales were teachers, compared to the 170,000 who comprised three-fourths of all teachers in 1901. The great majority came from lower middle class origins. The National Union of Women Teachers (NUWT) originated in the early 20th century inside the male-controlled National Union of Teachers (NUT). It demanded equal pay with male teachers, and eventually broke away. Oxford and Cambridge minimized the role of women, allowing small all-female colleges operate. However the new redbrick universities and the other major cities were open to women.\n\nFlorence Nightingale demonstrated the necessity of professional nursing in modern warfare, and set up an educational system that tracked women into that field in the second half of the nineteenth century. Nursing by 1900 was a highly attractive field for middle-class women.\n\nMedicine was very well organized by men, and posed an almost insurmountable challenge for women, with the most systematic resistance by the physicians, and the fewest women breaking through. One route to entry was to go to the United States where there were suitable schools for women as early as 1850. Britain was the last major country to train women physicians, so 80 to 90% of the British women came to America for their medical degrees. Edinburgh University admitted a few women in 1869, then reversed itself in 1873, leaving a strong negative reaction among British medical educators. The first separate school for women physicians opened in London in 1874 to a handful of students. In 1877, the King and Queen's College of Physicians in Ireland became the first institution to take advantage of the Enabling Act of 1876 and admit women to take its medical licences. In all cases, coeducation had to wait until the World War.\n\nThe 1834 Poor Law defined who could receive monetary relief. The act reflected and perpetuated prevailing gender conditions. In Edwardian society, men were the source of wealth. The law restricted relief for unemployed, able-bodied male workers, due to the prevailing view that they would find work in the absence of financial assistance. However, women were treated differently. After the Poor Law was passed, women and children received most of the aid. The law did not recognise single independent women, and lumped women and children into the same category. If a man was physically disabled, his wife was also treated as disabled under the law. Unmarried mothers were sent to the workhouse, receiving unfair social treatment such as being restricted from attending church on Sundays. During marriage disputes women often lost the rights to their children, even if their husbands were abusive.\n\nAt the time, single mothers were the poorest sector in society, disadvantaged for at least four reasons. First, women had longer lifespans, often leaving them widowed with children. Second, women's work opportunities were few, and when they did find work, their wages were lower than male workers' wages. Third, women were often less likely to marry or remarry after being widowed, leaving them as the main providers for the remaining family members. Finally, poor women had deficient diets, because their husbands and children received disproportionately large shares of food. Many women were malnourished and had limited access to health care.\n\nThe Edwardian era, from the 1890s to the First World War saw middle-class women breaking out of the Victorian limitations. Women had more employment opportunities and were more active. Many served worldwide in the British Empire or in Protestant missionary societies.\n\nFor housewives, sewing machines enabled the production of ready made clothing and made it easier for women to sew their own clothes; more generally, argues Barbara Burman, \"home dressmaking was sustained as an important aid for women negotiating wider social shifts and tensions in their lives.\" An increased literacy in the middle class gave women wider access to information and ideas. Numerous new magazines appealed to her tastes and help define femininity.\n\nThe inventions of the typewriter, telephone, and new filing systems offered middle class women increased employment opportunities. So too did the rapid expansion of the school system, and the emergence of the new profession of nursing. Education and status led to demands for female roles in the rapidly expanding world of sports.\n\nAs middle class women rose in status they increasingly supported demands for a political voice.\n\nIn 1903, Emmeline Pankhurst founded the Women's Social and Political Union (WSPU), a suffrage advocacy organization. While WSPU was the most visible suffrage group, it was only one of many, such as the Women's Freedom League and the National Union of Women's Suffrage Societies (NUWSS) led by Millicent Garrett Fawcett. In Wales the suffragists women were attacked as outsiders and were usually treated with rudeness and often violence when they demonstrated or spoke publicly. The idea of Welshness was by then highly masculine because of its identification with labouring in heavy industry and mining and with militant union action.\n\nThe radical protests steadily became more violent, and included heckling, banging on doors, smashing shop windows, burning mailboxes, and arson of unoccupied buildings. Emily Davison, a WSPU member, unexpectedly ran onto the track during the 1913 Epsom Derby and died under the King's horse. These tactics produced mixed results of sympathy and alienation. As many protesters were imprisoned and went on hunger-strike, the Liberal government was left with an embarrassing situation. From these political actions, the suffragists successfully created publicity around their institutional discrimination and sexism. Historians generally argue that the first stage of the militant suffragette movement under the Pankhursts in 1906 had a dramatic mobilizing effect on the suffrage movement. Women were thrilled and supportive of an actual revolt in the streets; the membership of the militant WSPU and the older NUWSS overlapped and was mutually supportive. However a system of publicity, historian Robert Ensor argues, had to continue to escalate to maintain its high visibility in the media. The hunger strikes and force-feeding did that. However the Pankhursts refused any advice and escalated their tactics. They turned to systematic disruption of Liberal Party meetings as well as physical violence in terms of damaging public buildings and arson. This went too far, as the overwhelming majority of moderate suffragists pulled back and refused to follow because they could no longer defend the tactics. They increasingly repudiated the extremists as an obstacle to achieving suffrage, saying the militant suffragettes were now aiding the antis, and many historians agree. Historian G. R. Searle says the methods of the suffragettes did succeed in damaging the Liberal party but failed to advance the cause of woman suffrage. When the Pankhursts decided to stop the militancy at the start of the war, and enthusiastically support the war effort, the movement split and their leadership role ended. Suffrage did come four years later, but the feminist movement in Britain permanently abandoned the militant tactics that had made the suffragettes famous.\n\nIn Wales, women's participation in politics grew steadily from the start of the suffrage movement in 1907. By 2003, half the members elected to the National Assembly were women.\n\nAlthough abortion was illegal, it was nevertheless the most widespread form of birth control in use. Used predominantly by working-class women, the procedure was used not only as a means of terminating pregnancy, but also to prevent poverty and unemployment. Those who transported contraceptives could be legally punished. Contraceptives became more expensive over time and had a high failure rate. Unlike contraceptives, abortion did not need any prior planning and was less expensive. Newspaper advertisements were used to promote and sell abortifacients indirectly.\n\nEdwardian Britain had large numbers of male and female domestic servants, in both urban and rural areas. Men relied on working class women to run their homes smoothly, and employers often looked to these working class women for sexual partners. Servants were provided with food, clothing, housing, and a small wage, and lived in a self-enclosed social system inside the mansion. The number of domestic servants fell in the Edwardian period due to a declining number of young people willing to be employed in this area.\n\nThe upper classes embraced leisure sports, which resulted in rapid developments in fashion, as more mobile and flexible clothing styles were needed. During the Edwardian era, women wore a very tight corset, or bodice, and dressed in long skirts. The Edwardian era was the last time women wore corsets in everyday life. According to Arthur Marwick, the most striking change of all the developments that occurred during the Great War was the modification in women's dress, \"for, however far politicians were to put the clocks back in other steeples in the years after the war, no one ever put the lost inches back on the hems of women's skirts\".\n\nThe Edwardians developed new styles in clothing design. The bustle and heavy fabrics of the previous century disappeared. A new concept of tight fitting skirts and dresses made of lightweight fabrics were introduced for a more active lifestyle.\n\nThe First World War advanced the feminist cause, as women's sacrifices and paid employment were much appreciated. Prime Minister David Lloyd George was clear about how important the women were: \n\nThe militant suffragette movement was suspended during the war and never resumed. British society credited the new patriotic roles women played as earning them the vote in 1918. However, British historians no longer emphasize the granting of woman suffrage as a reward for women's participation in war work. Pugh (1974) argues that enfranchising soldiers primarily and women secondarily was decided by senior politicians in 1916. In the absence of major women's groups demanding for equal suffrage, the government's conference recommended limited, age-restricted women's suffrage. The suffragettes had been weakened, Pugh argues, by repeated failures before 1914 and by the disorganising effects of war mobilization; therefore they quietly accepted these restrictions, which were approved in 1918 by a majority of the War Ministry and each political party in Parliament. More generally, Searle (2004) argues that the British debate was essentially over by the 1890s, and that granting the suffrage in 1918 was mostly a byproduct of giving the vote to male soldiers. Women in Britain finally achieved suffrage on the same terms as men in 1928.\n\nThere was a relaxing of clothing restrictions; by 1920 there was negative talk about young women called \"flappers\" flaunting their sexuality.\n\nThe vote did not immediately change social circumstances. With the economic recession, women were the most vulnerable sector of the workforce. Some women who held jobs prior to the war were obliged to forfeit them to returning soldiers, and others were excessed. With limited franchise, the UK National Union of Women's Suffrage Societies (NUWSS) pivoted into a new organisation, the National Union of Societies for Equal Citizenship (NUSEC), which still advocated for equality in franchise, but extended its scope to examine equality in social and economic areas. Legislative reform was sought for discriminatory laws (e.g., family law and prostitution) and over the differences between \"equality\" and \"equity\", the accommodations that would allow women to overcome barriers to fulfillment (known in later years as the \"equality vs. difference conundrum\"). Eleanor Rathbone, who became a MP in 1929, succeeded Millicent Garrett as president of NUSEC in 1919. She expressed the critical need for consideration of \"difference\" in gender relationships as \"what women need to fulfill the potentialities of their own natures\". The 1924 Labour government's social reforms created a formal split, as a splinter group of strict egalitarians formed the Open Door Council in May 1926. This eventually became an international movement, and continued until 1965. Other important social legislation of this period included the Sex Disqualification (Removal) Act 1919 (which opened professions to women), and the Matrimonial Causes Act 1923. In 1932, NUSEC separated advocacy from education, and continued the former activities as the National Council for Equal Citizenship and the latter as the Townswomen's Guild. The council continued until the end of the Second World War.\n\nAnnie Besant had been prosecuted in 1877 for publishing Charles Knowlton's \"Fruits of Philosophy\", a work on family planning, under the Obscene Publications Act 1857. Knowlton had previously been convicted in the United States for publishing a book on conception. She and her colleague Charles Bradlaugh were convicted but acquitted on appeal, the subsequent publicity resulting in a decline in the birth rate. Not discouraged in the slightest, Besant followed this with \"The Law of Population\".\n\nBritain's total mobilization during this period proved to be successful in winning the war, by maintaining strong support from public opinion. The war was a \"people's war\" that enlarged democratic aspirations and produced promises of a postwar welfare state.\nHistorians credit Britain with a highly successful record of mobilizing the home front for the war effort, in terms of mobilizing the greatest proportion of potential workers, maximizing output, assigning the right skills to the right task, and maintaining the morale and spirit of the people. Much of this success was due to the systematic planned mobilization of women, as workers, soldiers and housewives, enforced after December 1941 by conscription. The women supported the war effort, and made the rationing of consumer goods a success. In some ways, the government over planned, evacuating too many children in the first days of the war, closing cinemas as frivolous then reopening them when the need for cheap entertainment was clear, sacrificing cats and dogs to save a little space on shipping pet food, only to discover an urgent need to keep the rats and mice under control. In the balance between compulsion and voluntarism, the British relied successfully on voluntarism. The success of the government in providing new services, such as hospitals, and school lunches, as well as the equalitarian spirit of the People's war, contributed to widespread support for an enlarged welfare state. Munitions production rose dramatically, and the quality remained high. Food production was emphasized, in large part to open up shipping for munitions. Farmers increased the number of acres under cultivation from 12,000,000 to 18,000,000, and the farm labor force was expanded by a fifth, thanks especially to the Women's Land Army.\n\nParents had much less time for supervision of their children, and the fear of juvenile delinquency was upon the land, especially as older teenagers took jobs and emulated their older siblings in the service. The government responded by requiring all youth over 16 to register, and expanded the number of clubs and organizations available to them.\n\nFood, clothing, petrol, leather and other such items were rationed. However, items such as sweets and fruits were not rationed, as they would spoil. Access to luxuries was severely restricted, although there was also a significant black market. Families also grew victory gardens, and small home vegetable gardens, to supply themselves with food. Many things were conserved to turn into weapons later, such as fat for nitroglycerin production. People in the countryside were less affected by rationing as they had greater access to locally sourced unrationed products than people in metropolitan areas and were more able to grow their own.\n\nThe rationing system, which had been originally based on a specific basket of goods for each consumer, was much improved by switching to a points system which allowed the housewives to make choices based on their own priorities. Food rationing also permitted the upgrading of the quality of the food available, and housewives approved—except for the absence of white bread and the government's imposition of an unpalatable wheat meal \"national loaf.\" People were especially pleased that rationing brought equality and a guarantee of a decent meal at an affordable cost.\n\n1950s Britain was a bleak period for militant feminism. In the aftermath of World War II, a new emphasis was placed on companionate marriage and the nuclear family as a foundation of the new welfare state.\n\nIn 1951, the proportion of adult women who were (or had been) married was 75%; more specifically, 84.8% of women between the ages of 45 and 49 were married. At that time: “marriage was more popular than ever before.” In 1953, a popular book of advice for women states: “A happy marriage may be seen, not as a holy state or something to which a few may luckily attain, but rather as the best course, the simplest, and the easiest way of life for us all”.\n\nWhile at the end of the war, childcare facilities were closed and assistance for working women became limited, the social reforms implemented by the new welfare state included family allowances meant to subsidize families, that is, to support women in the “capacity as wife and mother.” Sue Bruley argues that “the progressive vision of the New Britain of 1945 was flawed by a fundamentally conservative view of women”.\n\nWomen's commitment to companionate marriage was echoed by the popular media: films, radio and popular women's magazines. In the 1950s, women's magazines had considerable influence on forming opinion in all walks of life, including the attitude to women's employment.\n\nNevertheless, 1950s Britain saw several strides towards the parity of women, such as equal pay for teachers (1952) and for men and women in the civil service (1954), thanks to activists like Edith Summerskill, who fought for women's causes both in parliament and in the traditional non-party pressure groups throughout the 1950s. Barbara Caine argues: “Ironically here, as with the vote, success was sometimes the worst enemy of organised feminism, as the achievement of each goal brought to an end the campaign which had been organised around it, leaving nothing in its place.”\n\nFeminist writers of that period, such as Alva Myrdal and Viola Klein, started to allow for the possibility that women should be able to combine home with outside employment. 1950s’ form of feminism is often derogatorily termed “welfare feminism.” Indeed, many activists went to great length to stress that their position was that of ‘reasonable modern feminism,’ which accepted sexual diversity, and sought to establish what women's social contribution was rather than emphasizing equality or the similarity of the sexes. Feminism in 1950s England was strongly connected to social responsibility and involved the well-being of society as a whole. This often came at the cost of the liberation and personal fulfillment of self-declared feminists. Even those women who regarded themselves as feminists strongly endorsed prevailing ideas about the primacy of children's needs, as advocated, for example, by John Bowlby the head of the Children's Department at the Tavistock Clinic, who published extensively throughout the 1950s and by Donald Winnicott who promoted through radio broadcasts and in the press the idea of the home as a private emotional world in which mother and child are bound to each other and in which the mother has control and finds freedom to fulfill herself.\n\nThe 1960s saw dramatic shifts in attitudes and values led by youth. It was a worldwide phenomenon, in which British rock musicians especially The Beatles played an international role. The generations divided sharply regarding the new sexual freedom demanded by youth who listened to bands like \"The Rolling Stones\".\n\nSexual morals changed. One notable event was the publication of D. H. Lawrence's \"Lady Chatterley's Lover\" by Penguin Books in 1960. Although first printed in 1928, the release in 1960 of an inexpensive mass-market paperback version prompted a court case. The prosecuting council's question, \"Would you want your wife or servants to read this book?\" highlighted how far society had changed, and how little some people had noticed. The book was seen as one of the first events in a general relaxation of sexual attitudes. Other elements of the sexual revolution included the development of The Pill, Mary Quant's miniskirt and the 1967 legalisation of homosexuality. There was a rise in the incidence of divorce and abortion, and a resurgence of the women's liberation movement, whose campaigning helped secure the Equal Pay Act and the Sex Discrimination Act in 1975. The Irish Catholics, traditionally the most puritanical of the ethno-religious groups, eased up a little, especially as the membership disregarded the bishops teaching that contraception was sinful.\n\nSince 2007, Harriet Harman has been Deputy Leader of the Labour Party, the UK's current opposition party. Traditionally, being Deputy Leader has ensured the cabinet role of Deputy Prime Minister. However, Gordon Brown announced that he would not have a Deputy Prime Minister, much to the consternation of feminists, particularly with suggestions that privately Brown considered Jack Straw to be de facto deputy prime minister and thus bypassing Harman. With Harman's cabinet post of Leader of the House of Commons, Brown allowed her to chair Prime Minister's Questions when he was out of the country. Harman also held the post Minister for Women and Equality. In April 2012 after being sexually harassed on London public transport English journalist Laura Bates founded the Everyday Sexism Project, a website which documents everyday examples of sexism experienced by contributors from around the world. The site quickly became successful and a book compilation of submissions from the project was published in 2014. In 2013, the first oral history archive of the United Kingdom women's liberation movement (titled \"Sisterhood and After\") was launched by the British Library.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30809281", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30809281", "title": "Hyman Martin", "text": "Hyman Martin\n\nHyman \"Pittsburgh Hymie\" Martin (April 6, 1903 – July 1987) was a Pittsburgh mobster and a close associate of Moe Dalitz and Louis Rothkopf. He was seen with Davis and Rothkopf hours before the murder of Cleveland city councilman William E. Potter on February 3, 1931. Identified by police as matching the description of the man who rented the apartment in which Potter's body was found, he was arrested in Pittsburgh shortly after, although he denied any knowledge of the murder, stating \"I'm a gentleman, a rumrunner!\".\n\nCharged with Potter's murder, Martin was convicted; however, he later won a retrial and was acquitted.\n"}
{"id": "19158860", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19158860", "title": "International Pathogenic Neisseria Conference", "text": "International Pathogenic Neisseria Conference\n\nThe International Pathogenic Neisseria Conference (IPNC) occurs every two years and is a forum for the presentation of cutting-edge research on all aspects of the genus \"Neisseria\". This includes immunology, vaccinology and physiology and metabolism of \"Neisseria meningitidis\", \"Neisseria gonorrhoeae\" and the commensal species.\n\nThe 21st International Pathogenic Neisseria Conference (IPNC 2018) will be held in Asilomar, California, USA from the 23–28 September 2018.\n\nIn the 1970s a series of conferences were held dealing with issues of meningococcal epidemiology and vaccination. Some of these conferences were held in Milano, St. Paul de Vence, and Marseille. But the first official conference was held in San Francisco, California, 1978. The location of the conference switched between North America and Europe until 2006 when the venue was located in Cairns, Australia.\n\nIn memory of Igor Stojiljkovic a scholarship fund has been initiated through the Emory University School of Medicine, to be used exclusively to provide travel funds to young investigators so that they can attend bacterial pathogenesis meetings such as the IPNC.\n\n"}
{"id": "3888605", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3888605", "title": "Iraqi-Assyrians", "text": "Iraqi-Assyrians\n\nAssyrians in Iraq are an ethnoreligious and linguistic minority in present-day Iraq, and are the indigenous population of the region. Assyrians are about .5% of the population of Iraq. Assyrians in Iraq are those Assyrians still residing in the country of Iraq, and those in the Assyrian diaspora who are of Iraqi-Assyrian heritage. They are and have direct cultural and genetic lineage from the ancient Mesopotamians, in particular from the Akkadian peoples (Assyrians and Babylonians) who emerged in the region c. 3000 BC, and the Aramean tribes who intermingled with them from the 9th century BC onwards.\n\nAssyrians are a Semitic people who speak, read and write a modern-day Eastern Dialects of ancient Aramaic that has existed in Iraq since 1200 BC, which retains even older Akkadian grammatical influences and loan words (the language which they originally spoke). They are mainly a Christian people, and follow a collection of ethnic-based Eastern Christian denominations which first evolved in the region in the 1st century AD. The Assyrians of Iraq adhere to Chaldean Catholic Church, Assyrian Church of the East, Syriac Orthodox Church and Ancient Church of the East, in addition to other recently formed Assyrian Protestant churches including the Assyrian Pentecostal Church and Assyrian Evangelical Church.\n\nAccording to the CIA, the Assyrian Christians of Iraq or other religions (excluding Islam), make up .5% of the Iraqi population. The last Iraqi census, in 1987, counted 1.4 million Christians, including the Assyrian community (4–5%), although many left the country during the 1990s when economic sanctions were imposed on the country. Other indigenous Assyrian communities can be found just outside Iraq's borders in \"southeastern Turkey, northwestern Iran and northeastern Syria\".\n\nThe Assyrians are typically Syriac-speaking Christians who claim descent from Assyria, one of the oldest civilizations in the world, dating back to 2500 BC in ancient Mesopotamia. Assyria itself existed as an independent state (and often imperial power) in what is today northern Iraq, north eastern Syria, south eastern Turkey and the north western fringe of Iran from the 25th century BC to the beginning of the 6th century BC, and remained a geopolitical entity until the mid 7th century AD.\n\nThe Assyrians were an integral part of the Akkadian Empire (2335–2154 BC) which united the Akkadian-speaking peoples under one rule, and after its dissolution Assyria rose to prominence with the Old Assyrian Empire (c.2025–1750 BC), Middle Assyrian Empire (1365–1020 BC) and Neo-Assyrian Empire (911-605 BC), the latter two of these empires made Assyria the most powerful nation in the world at the time. At its height the Assyrians ruled a vast empire from their homeland in what is today northern Iraq, north east Syria and south east Turkey, an empire stretching from the Caucasus Mountains in the north to Egypt, Libya and the Arabian peninsula in the south, and from Cyprus and Antioch in the west to western Iran and the Caspian Sea in the east.\n\nAfter the Assyrian empire fell between 612 and 599 BC, Assyria endured mostly as an occupied but named geo-political entity as; Athura, Achaemenid Assyria, Asuristan, Assyria, although during the Parthian Empire and early Sassanid Empire (c.160 BC – 260 AD) there was an Assyrian revival, and a number of independent Assyrian states arose in northern Iraq and north east Syria, including; Adiabene, Osroene, Beth Nuhadra, Beth Garmai, ancient Assur itself, and to some degree Hatra.\n\nThe Assyrians formulated the influential Syriac literature and Syriac script in the 5th century BC IN Athura (Achaemenid Assyria), and began to gradually convert from Mesopotamian Religion to Christianity from the 1st to 4th centuries AD, with the Assyrian Church of the East and its much later offshoot, the Chaldean Catholic Church being founded in the region, as too to some extent was the Syriac Orthodox Church.\n\nAssyria was dissolved as an entity in the mid 7th century AD, following the Arab Islamic Conquest, and the Assyrians, as Christians and non-Arabs, suffered discrimination; they were banned from spreading their religion upon pain of death, were taxed a Jiziyah for not being Muslim, and found their word was not equal to a Muslim in legal and civil matters. Assyrians still formed the majority of the population in northern Iraq until the Middle Ages. The Assyrians suffered a series of severe religiously motivated massacres under Muslim Turco-Mongol rule in the 13th and 14th centuries AD, greatly reducing their numbers, and causing the ancient city of Assur to be finally abandoned after 4000 years of occupation.\n\nThe new arrival of Muslim Kurds went along with persecutionss of Assyrians. In the 1840s the Kurdish chieftain Badr-Khan Beg and his tribe massacred tens of\nthousands of Assyrians. In 1918, Simko Agha Shekaki, regarded as a national hero among Kurds, killed the Assyrian Mar Benjamin Shimun, the Patriarch of the Church of the East. After 1933, Assyrians had to flee from Iraq to Syria due to the massacres by the Iraqi army, led by\nKurdish general Bakr Sidqi.\n\nScholars have said that Kurds also fought against Christians because they feared that Armenians or their European allies could take control of the area. Both Arabs and Kurds thought of the Assyrians as foreigners and as allies of colonial Britain. Kurdish tribes were plundering Armenian and other Christian villages and \"took possession of land\".\n\nPersecution of Assyrians has a long and bitter history. In 1895 in Diyarbakır Kurdish and Turkish militia began attacking Christians, plundering Assyrian villages. In 1915 Kurds and Turks plundered villages, about 7000 Assyrians were killed. In 1915 Turkish troops \"with Kurdish detachments\" committed mass slaughters of Assyrians in Iran. In the Assyrian village of Haftvan almost 1000 people were beheaded and 5000 Assyrian women were taken to Kurdish harems.\n\nIn 1894, Paul Cambon described the creation of Kurdish Hamidies regiments as „the official organisation for pillage at the expense of Armenian Christians“. In these places \"the system of persecutions and extorsions became intolerable to populations who had become accustomed to their slavery\". According to Cambon, the Porte refused reforms and persisted in „maintaining a veritable regime of terror, arrests, assasinations and rape.“. In 1925 the Muslim Kurds \"rose in revolt against the „atheist government of Ankara“ and demanded autonomy , the restoration of religious laws and of the sultanate\". In 1932 Iraqi forces commanded by Kurdish general Bakr Sidki killed 600 Assyrians at Simel, near Mosul. Kurds committed the slaughter \"in which 65 Nestorian villages in northern Iraq were plundered and burned down, priests were tortured and Christians were forced to renounce their religion while others in Dohuk were deported and about a 100 were shot\". While today Armenians \"concentrate their resentment against the Turks\", in reality \"Kurds and Arabs had participated in the genocide and the enslavement and conversion of Armenian women and children\". In 1843 Nestorians in the Tauris region refused to pay Kurds the jizya, and \"by way of reprisal 4350 Nestroians were slaughtered, about 400 women and children were reduced to slavery and all their houses and churches destroyed\". Historians have noted that in \"Kurdistan Jews, Nestorians and Armenians were subject to tallage and corvees at whim of authorities, and this period witnessed massacres of Christians in Kurdistan in the mid-19th century\".\n\nHistorians have noted that \"Bedirhan Bey the Ruler \"called the Kurdish Muslims to fight a sacred war against Christian Syriac, Nestorian, Chaldean and Armenian people and ordered to massacre and annihilate them\". Kurdish writers have recounted that “the Kurdish troops attacked the Assyrians and started slaughters. Consequently, a few Assyrians were killed, their villages were destroyed and set into fire... For the second time, in 1846, the Assyrians residing at the Thuma region have been massacred...” British writer William Eagleton said that “in 1843 and 1846, Bedirhan started a massacre and booting campaign against the Christian Assyrians (Nestorians) he was anxious about whose getting stronger and independent through becoming able to rule themselves. It was intolerable for Bedirhan to see the Assyrians living on his own territories getting stronger. Thus he killed ten thousand Assyrians. Even though Bedirhan was a feudal tribal leader, he was expressing the aspirations of Kurdish nationalism.” Kurdish and Arab attacks on Assyrians continued, culminating in the August 1933 Simele Massacres. About 3000 Assyrians were killed in that single month alone.\n\nBeginning in August 1933 Iraqi soldiers and Kurdish militia killed thousands of Assyrias in Simele (Iraq). The massacre had a big influence on Raphael Lemkin, the jurist who coined the word \"genocide. The Simmele Massacre is also commemorated yearly with the official Assyrian Martyrs Day on August 7. The massacre was carried out by the Iraqi Army, led by Kurdish General Bakir Sidqi, and Kurdish and Arab irregulars. There were about 3,000 victims of the massacre. Turks, with the cooperation of Kurdish groups, conducted systematic murder against the Christian population. Beginning in the first half of the 19th century, the Turks allied with Kurdish tribes. After the Kurds weregranted an emirate in Syriac Cizre in 1842, the Kurds launched brutal assaults againt Christians under the command of Kurdish emir Bedr Khan, who murdered thousands of Assyrians in the region of Tur Abdin and Hakkari. Christian areas were subjected to the migration of Kurdish tribes. Many massacres were carried out against Christians in 1895 in Diyarbakir, Urfa, Mardin, Nusaybin, Meyafarkin, Tur Abdin and Viranshahr. Assyrians were eradicated from Tur Abdin, Mardin, Diyarbakir and Hakkari in Turkey and Urmia in Iran. The Syriac city of Mardin was captured by Turks and given over to Kurds who expelled its original population. Only a few of the Christians of the Nineveh Plain remain after the repeated attacks by Arab and Kurdish fighters. Historically Christian cities like Erbil, Zakho, Dohuk, Kirkuk, and Mosul have been Kurdicized and Islamized. Suryanis emigrated from Syria after the Amuda massacre of August 1937. The massacre was carried out by Kurdish general Saeed Agha and emptied the city of its Suryani population. Malikiya, Darbasiya and Amuda have since become completely Kurdish. Also the historically Christian city of Nusaybin has become Kurdish. Christians fled to Qamishly which became a Christian city until the immigration of Kurds beginning in 1926.\n\nKurdish-Christian Armenian relations were bitter at the turn of the 19th century and land conflicts were a major problem. Many Christians and Europeans regarded the Kurds as barbarians and a major threat, the French consul at Erzurum describing them as a blood-thirsty savage population which is used to plundering and a nomadic life. Kurds also played a major part in the Ottoman army, also through the Hamidiye. The Kurdish chieftain Bedr Khan during his rise to power massacred about 10,000 Assyrians in 1842. Nestorian tribes were massacred by Kurds in 1843. In 1915 Kurds massacred more than 27,000 Assyrians in Urmia region alone and destroyed more than 100 villages Assyrian villages in March 1915 alone. In 1916 Kurds and Turks massacred Assyrians in Bohtan region. Both Kurdish and Turkish nationalists deny the fact that Assyrians were the original inhabitants of south-eastern Turkey and northern Iraq. The Assyrian population was so small in the aftermath of the genocide that the region called Assyria in ancient times came to be known as \"Kurdistan\". The Kurds and Turks cynically resisted Assyrian and Armenian efforts to attain statehood after World War II. While the Kurdish population doubled from two million in 1970 to four million in 2002, the Christian population decreased.\n\nIn 1918, Britain resettled 20,000 Assyrian people from south east Turkey in Iraqi refugee camps in Baquba and Mandan after the Ottoman Empire instigated the Assyrian Genocide and a subsequent British and Russian-inspired Assyrian rebellion (see Assyrian struggle for independence), which although having success against overwhelming odds initially, floundered when the Russians withdrew from the war, leaving the Assyrian forces cut off and vastly outnumbered without supplies and armaments. From there, due to their higher level of education, many gravitated toward Kirkuk, Mosul and Erbil with their own long established ancient Assyrian communities, and to Habbaniya, (as well as to other areas in the north such as the Nineveh plains with age old existing indigenous Assyrian populations) where they were indispensable in the administration of the oil and military projects.\n\nAs a result, approximately three-fourths of the Assyrians who had sided with the British during World War I found themselves living in by now Kurdish dominated areas of Iraq, where their ancestors had existed for over five thousand years. Thousands of Assyrian men had seen service in the \"Iraqi Levies\" (Assyrian Levies), a force under British officers separate from the regular Iraqi army. Excellent, disciplined and loyal soldiers, they were used by the British to help put down Arab and Kurdish insurrections against the British, and to help patrol the Turkish and Iranian borders of British Mesopotamia. Pro-British, they had been apprehensive of Iraqi independence. Many of those thus resettled by the British have gradually been forced into exile, although by the end of the twentieth century, almost all of those who remain were born in Iraq.\n\nAssyrians living in northern Iraq today are those whose ancient ancestry lies in the north originally, an area roughly corresponding with \"Ancient Assyria\". Many of these, however, in places like Berwari, have been forcibly displaced by Kurds and Arabs since the genocides of World War I. This process has continued throughout the twentieth century: as Kurds and Arabs have expanded in population, Assyrians have come under attack as in 1933 (Simele Massacre), and as a result have fled from Iraq. (Stafford, \"Tragedy of the Assyrians\", 1935)\n\nIn fact, it all started as a conflict between the Assyrians Patriarch of the Church of the East, Mar Shimun, whose residency and seat was traditionally at Kochanis in the Hakkari mountains in Southeastern Turkey. He was forced to retreat to Iran and then to Iraq under the auspices of the British army, while many of his people perished, and many were injured during the confrontations with the Turkish and the Iranian army and the Kurds during WWI. His relocation into Iraq forced the Patriarch Mar Shimun, one year before the end of the British Mandate over Iraq, to enter into discussions with the Iraqi Government, asking to recognize not only his religious authority but also his secular and political authority, representing his wounded people, but the government refused. \nThe Assyrians, previously from Hakkari and form Iran, had been settled by the British administration in Iraq. However, their problems and absorption in the new country was far from flawless. In 1932, the British decision to hand over the mandate over Iraq was taken and the Assyrians insisted that they would not be safe after the British left. When the end of the mandate became a certainty, Browne calls it 'political mutiny,' when Assyrian officers and men of the Levies acknowledged that they wished to be disbanded in a month from June 1, 1932. Browne says the British point of view:\n\nthey had no right to do anything pf the sort, and a most dangerous would have arisen if several thousand men, all armed, were collected together in the area north of Mosul.\n\nFrom an Assyrian point of view, Browne argues, \"it was simply a desperate attempt to bring their case home to everyone before it was too late. Many took part unwillingly, and the more level-headed admitted they were wrong; but all decided that they must hold together.\"\n\nAfter several weeks of mounting tensions all the Levies withdrew their resignations and were asked to commit \"never again to take part in any more demonstrations of a political nature while serving.\" \nAt the same time, the Assyrian Patriarch Mar Shimon went to Geneva to address the League of Nations the concerns and worries of the Assyrian people who he represented. There were no results for his efforts, and the mandated over Iraq was transferred without the Assyrian problem being resolved.\nThe British administration appointed a settlement officer, Major Thompson, to work under the Iraq government, and his work begain in 1933. \"Then matters began to move rapidly to a crisis,\" according to Browne. Concerns of the Assyrians that were not addressed, military men annoyed, in a midst of a process that included resignation from the Levies and return to service in a hope that some solution will be provided to their concerns.\nTwo former Levy officers, Yaqub Ismail of the Upper Tiyari tribe, and Loko Shlimun of the Tkhuma Tribe, \"after figuring in a series of disturbing situations\" north of Mosul marched off into Syria with between 400 and 500 men. They were all armed. Browne argues they had no intention of fighting, because they left their women and children in Iraq, an act \"they would certainly not have done had they intended war.\" After deliberations and involvement of Great Britain, France and Iraq, in order to solve this delicate situation, the Assyrians decided to march back into Iraq, and arrived on the Tigris River near Deirabun (Dehrabun), a Christian village. However, they were faced with a force of 4,000 Iraqi soldiers who were keeping the line. \"As it was, two groups of people, both armed, both disliking each other intensely, met on the river. It was only necessary for one rifle to go off for hostilities to begin, and that is what happened.\"\n\nA little fight ensues but the Assyrians, after some initial success, suddenly broke off and retired. The Iraqi action that followed included shooting the prisoners in cold blood, and a massacre of between 400 and 500 men of the Baz tribe in the village of Simmel. Browne argues that the Iraqi army was entirely responsible for the deterioration, the civil authorities was not involved and even the Kurds had nothing to do with these developments.\n\nUnlike the Kurds, some Assyrians scarcely expected a nation-state of their own after World War I (despite promises by the British and Russians), but they did demand restitution from Turkey for the huge material and population losses they had suffered, especially in northwest Iran, a neutral party in World War I invaded by Turkish and Kurdish forces. Their pressure for some temporal authority in the north of Iraq under the Assyrian patriarch, Shimun XXI Eshai, was flatly refused by British and Iraqis alike.\n\nIn 1933, the Iraqi government held the Patriarch of the Assyrian Church of the East, the Mar Shamun, under house arrest. When he left Iraq to appeal to the British with regard to how the Assyrians were being mistreated in Iraq contrary to the agreement at Iraq's independence to refrain from discrimination against ethnic and religious minorities, he was stripped of his citizenship and refused re-entry.\n\nAssyrians continued to serve the British in Iraq (who maintained a military presence until 1954), despite earlier betrayals. Assyrian levies played an important role in putting down the pro Nazi Iraqi movement in World War II, and served the British in the Mediterranean, Middle Eastern and North African campaigns during the war.\n\nThe \"World Directory of Minorities\" states that there are over 300,000 Assyrian followers of the Chaldean Catholic rite in Iraq and that they live mainly in Baghdad. Until the 1950s, Chaldean Catholics were mostly settled in Mosul—in 1932, 70 percent of Assyrian Christians of all denominations lived there, but by 1957, only 47 percent remained, as they migrated southward due in part to ethnic and religious violence and regional and political tensions. It was estimated that about half of Iraq's Assyrian Christian's lived in Baghdad by 1979, accounting for 14 percent of that city's population\n\nThis period also marks the intensification of denominational antagonism among Assyrians in Iraq as some church institutions began to distance themselves from the members of the Assyrian Church of the East who were seen as magnets for Muslim antagonism.\n\nDuring July 1933, about 800 armed Assyrians headed for the Syrian border, where they were turned back by the French. While King Faisal had briefly left the country for medical reasons, the Minister of Interior, Hikmat Sulayman, adopted a policy aimed at a \"final solution\" of the \"Assyrian problem\". This policy was implemented by a Kurd, General Bakr Sidqi. After engaging in several unsuccessful clashes with armed Assyrian tribesmen, on 11 August 1933, Sidqi permitted his men to attack and kill about 3,000 unarmed Assyrian civilian villagers, including women, children and the elderly, at the Assyrian villages of Sumail (Simele) district, and later at Suryia. Having scapegoated the Assyrians as dangerous national traitors, this massacre of unarmed civilians became a symbol of national pride, and enhanced Sidqi's prestige. The British, though represented by a powerful military presence as provided by the Anglo-Iraqi Treaty of 1930, failed to intervene or allow the well disciplined Assyrian Levies under their command to do so, and indeed helped white-wash the event at the League of Nations.\n\nThe Assyrian repression marked the entrance of the military into Iraqi politics, a pattern that has periodically re-emerged since 1958, and offered an excuse for enlarging conscription. The hugely popular Assyrian massacre, an indication of the latent anti-Christian atmosphere among the Muslim Arab, Kurdish and Turkmen population, also set the stage for the increased prominence of Bakr Sidqi. In October 1936, Bakr Sidqi staged the first military coup in the modern Arab world.\n\nIn the early 1970s, the secularist Ba'ath regime initially tried to change the suppression of Assyrians in Iraq through different laws that were passed. On 20 February 1972, the government passed the law to recognize the cultural rights of Assyrians by allowing Aramaic be taught schools in which the majority of pupils spoke that language in addition to Arabic. Aramaic was also to be taught at intermediate and secondary schools in which the majority of students spoke that language in addition to Arabic, but it never happened. Special Assyrian programs were to be broadcast on public radio and television and three Syriac-language magazines were planned to be published in the capital. An Association of Syriac-Speaking Authors and Writers had also been established.\n\nThe bill turned out to be a failure. The radio stations created as the result of this decree were closed after a few months. While the two magazines were allowed to be published, only 10 percent of their material was in Aramaic. No school was allowed to teach in Aramaic either.\n\nIn modern times, Assyrians, for whom no reliable census figures exist in Iraq (as they do not for Kurds, Turkmen, Armenians, Yazidi, Shabaks or Mandeans), have been doubly mistreated; first by their Kurdish neighbours who outnumber them greatly, then by Saddam Hussein's Ba'athist regime. Assyrians were deprived of their ethnic, cultural and national rights while at the same time the Ba'athist regime tried to co-opt their history. In northern Iraq today, a similar pattern was claimed to have emerging as Kurdistan Regional Government attempt to allegedly rewrite the history of the region to give it a Kurdish flavor and diminish its historic and far older Assyrian heritage. As in Ba'athist Iraq, there is a strong tendency in Iraq today to recognize only two ethnic groups: Arab or Kurd. Assyrians have claimed that Kurdish nationalists have enforced revisionist curricula in schools with a Kurdish-nationalist bias. This is controversial since it has been noted they \"alter historical and geographical facts\", including Assyrian place names which are changed to Kurdish names, and students are taught that King Nebuchadnezzar from the Old Testament married a Kurdish woman.\n\nReports from various sources \"indicate a better human rights situation overall in the Kurdish-controlled areas of Northern Iraq than exists elsewhere in the country\" (AI 2000, 135; U.K. Immigration & Nationality Directorate Sept. 1999; USDOS 25 Feb. 2000) Also, according to the reports, “while freedom of speech, religion, movement, and press are strongly restricted throughout Iraq, these freedoms do exist to a certain extent in parts of the Kurd-controlled area “(USDOS 25 Feb. 2000). However, reports regarding isolated human rights abuses continued in 1999. The US State government reported that in 1999 Assyrian Christian Helena Aloun Sawa was murdered, and according to AINA, \"the murder resembles a well-established pattern of complicity by Kurdish authorities in attacks against Assyrian Christians in the north\". The murder was investigated by a commission appointed by the KDP but no results of the investigation were reported by year's end. There were also incidents of mob violence by Muslims against Christians in northern Iraq. \n\nAccording to the UK Immigration & Nationality Directorate \"despite Tariq Aziz's lofty position in the Baghdad regime, Christians have little political influence in the Ba'ath government\" (Sept. 1999)\n\nEducation in any language other than Arabic and Kurdish was prohibited by the government in Baghdad. Therefore, Assyrians were not permitted to attend classes in Syriac. In the Kurdish-controlled northern areas, classes in Syriac have been permitted since the 1991. However, according to some Assyrian sources \"regional Kurdish authorities refused to allow the classes to begin\" However, details of this practice were not available, and Kurdish authorities denied the accusations. In 1999, the Kurdistan Observer claimed that “the Central Government had warned the administration in the Kurdish region against allowing Turkoman, Assyrian, or Yazidi minority schools.\n\nAccording to the UK Immigration & Nationality Directorate, \"the Central Government has engaged various [sic] abuses against the Assyrian Christians, and has often suspected them of 'collaborating' with Kurds\" (Sept. 1999). According to report by The World Directory of Minorities \"Assyrians were unable to avoid the Kurdish conflict. As with the Kurds, some supported the government, others allied themselves with the Kurdish nationalist movement\" (Minority Rights Group International 1997, 346).\n\nIraqi Christians have been victim of executions, forced displacement campaigns, torture, violence and target of Islamist groups like al-Qaeda and ISIS. Since the 2003 Iraq War, Iraqi Christians have fled from the country and their population has collapsed under the Government of Iraq. Majority of Christians have either fled to the Iraqi Kurdistan or abroad.\n\nIn 2003, Iraqi Christians were primary target of extremist Sunni Islamists. Many kidnapped Christians were forced to leave Christianity or tortured.\n\nOn August 1, 2004, a series of car bomb attacks took place during the Sunday evening Mass in churches of two Iraqi cities, Baghdad and Mosul killing and wounding a large number of Christians. Jordanian jihadist and 1st emir of Al-Qaeda in Iraq Abu Musab al-Zarqawi was blamed for the attacks.\n\nIn 2006, an Orthodox priest, Boulos Iskander, was snatched off the streets of Mosul by a Sunni Arab group that demanded a ransom. His body was later found, the priest's arms and legs had also been cut off.\n\nIn 2007, there were reports of a push to drive Christians out of the historically Christian suburb of Dora in southern Baghdad, with some Sunni extremists accusing the Christians of being allies of the Americans. A total number of 239 similar cases were registered by police between 2007 and 2009.\n\nIn 2008, a priest called Ragheed Ganni, was shot dead in his church along with three of his companions. At the same year, there were reports that Christian students are harassed.\n\nIn 2008, the charity Barnabas conducted research into 250 Iraqi Christian IDPs who had fled to the north of the country (Iraqi Kurdistan) to seek refugee status and found nearly half had witnessed attacks on churches or Christians, or been personally targeted by violence.\n\nIn 2009, the Kurdistan Regional Government reported that more than 40,000 Christians had moved from Baghdad, Basra and Mosul to the Iraqi Kurdistan cities. The reports also stated that a number of Christians families who are moving to the Iraqi Kurdistan is growing and they were providing support and financial assistance for 11,000 of those families, and some are employed by the KRG.\n\nIn 2010, Sunni Islamist groups attacked a Syrian Catholic church in Baghdad during Sunday evening Mass, on 31 October 2010 killing more than 60 and wounding 78 Iraqi Christians.\n\nIn 2011, Islamist extremists assassinated Christian randomly using sniper rifles. Two months before the incident, 2 Christians had been shot for unknown reasons in Baghdad and 2 other Christians had been shot by Jihadist in Mosul. Human rights organizations has recorded 66 assault cases on churches and monasteries until 2012, as well as about 200 kidnappings. On 30 May 2011, a Christian man was beheaded by a Salafi extremist in Mosul.\n\nOn 2 August 2011, a Catholic church was bombed by Sunni extremists in Turkmen area of Kirkuk, wounding more than 23 Christians.\n\nOn 15 August 2011, a church was bombed by al-Qaeda in Kirkuk center.\n\nIn 2014, during the 2014 Northern Iraq offensive, the Islamic State of Iraq (ISIS) ordered all Christians in the area of its control, where Iraqi Army collapsed, to pay a special tax of approximately $470 per family, convert to Islam, or die. Many of them took refuge in nearby Kurdish-controlled regions of Iraq.\n\nAfter Saddam Hussein's fall in 2003, the Assyrian Democratic Movement was one of the smaller political parties that emerged in the social chaos of the occupation. Its officials say that while armed members of the Assyrian Democratic Movement also took part in the liberation of the key oil cities of Kirkuk and Mosul in the north, the Assyrians were not invited to join the steering committee that was charged with defining Iraq's future. The ethnic make-up of the Iraq Interim Governing Council briefly (September 2003 – June 2004) guiding Iraq after the invasion included a single Assyrian Christian, Younadem Kana, a leader of the Assyrian Democratic Movement and an opponent of Saddam Hussein since 1979.\n\nAssyrians in post-Saddam Iraq have faced high rate of persecution by fundamentalist Islamist since the beginning of the Iraq War. By early August 2004 this persecution included church bombings, and fundamentalist groups' enforcement of Muslim codes of behavior upon Christians, e.g., banning alcohol, forcing women to wear hijab. The violence against the community has led to the exodus of perhaps as much as half of the community. While Assyrians only made just over 5% of the total Iraqi population before the war, according to the United Nations, Assyrians are over-represented among the Iraqi refugees (as much as 13%) who are stranded in Syria, Jordan, Lebanon, and Turkey.\n\nA large number of Assyrians have found refuge in ancient Assyrian Christian villages in Nineveh plains and the Kurdish Autonomous Region. This led some Assyrians and Iraqi and foreign politicians to call for an Assyrian Christian autonomous region in those areas.\n\nIn 2008 the Assyrians formed their own militia, the Qaraqosh Protection Committee to protect Assyrian towns, villages and regions in the north. In 2008 the Assyrian Archbishop Paulos Faraj Rahho of the Chaldean Catholic Church in Mosul was assassinated by some Kurds while some have claimed assassins were hired by local Arab tribes. Rahho was a defender of Assyrian self-administration. Some observers have claimed that Kurdish KDP forces often used to practice their shooting on important Assyrian cultural heritage sites.\n\nKurdish KDP security forces have been criticized for human rights abuses, abuses \"ranged from threats and intimidation to detention in undisclosed locations without due process.\" In 2015, the local KDP security forces arrested and detained political activist Kamal Said Kadir, for having written articles on the Internet critical of the KDP. He was sentenced to a 30 years prison sentence. Some activists have claimed that party membership in Kurdish parties is necessary to obtain \"employment and educational opportunities\" in Iraqi Kurdistan. The US State department report said that \"Kurdish authorities abused and discriminated against minorities in the North, including Turcomen, Arabs, Christians, and Shabak\", and that Kurdish authorities \"denied services to some villages, arrested minorities without due process and took them to undisclosed locations for detention, and pressured minority schools to teach in the Kurdish language\". Christian minorities in Kirkuk also \"charged that Kurdish security forces targeted Arabs and Turcomen\".\n\nAssyrians have criticized the kurdification of the school curricula, and have complained about the confiscation and occupation of Assyrian lands, and \"that the Kurds invent new and impossible laws when the legitimate owners ask for their lands\". Assyrians have criticized that while Kurds are very well funded, the Assyrian Christians receive almost no funding for their schools. Assyrians have also said that Kurds have modified and falsified school textbooks (kurdification) and changed traditional Christian names to Kurdish names. In textbooks it was even claimed that some biblical figures were Kurdish. It was reported that the man accused of killing the Christian politician Francis Yousif Shabo in 1993 is \"allowed to walk around freely\" in Kurdistan. The impunity for those who attacked or killed Assyrians in the Kurdistan region was criticized. Assyrian Christian David Jindo was one of many murdered Christian politicians. Other prominent Assyrian leaders who were killed by Kurdish nationalists include Patriarch Mar Shimun, Franso Hariri, Margaret George (one of the first female Peshmerga) and Francis Shabo. Many of these figures were killed \"in spite of their attempts to engage with, or work under, Kurds\".\n\nIn April 2015 David Jendo was killed, he was leader of the Assyrian Khabour guards. YPG members were sentenced to 12 and 20 years in prison for the crime. Qamilshi has been designated as the Kurdish capital in Syria, but Assyrians believe the town was founded by their ancestors. A report \"‘We had nowhere else to go’: Forced displacement and demolitions in northern Syria\" by Amnesty International documented many cases of forced displacement and home demolitions amounting to war crimes carried out by the Autonomous Administration led by the Syrian Kurdish PYD party. The report also documented cases of \"deliberate displacement of thousands of civilians and the razing of entire villages in areas under the control of the PYD. The Aramean politician Johny Messo stated that the last attack by the YPG \"on an Aramean Christian self-defense unit in Qamishli had killed one Aramean. Messo also criticized that Syria’s minorities \"were not allowed to participate as an independent voice in the Geneva peace talks\". He said that \"there are thousands of Aramean Christians living in northern Syria, and the PYD is trying to intimidate and threaten them\". Assyrians lack many democratic rights compared to Kurds, with all important decisions being taken by Kurdish politicians of the PYD.\n\nThe US State government also reported that in Kurdish controlled areas Assyrian schools and classes Syriac were not permitted or prevented in some cases. There were also incidents of mob violence by Kurdistan Workers party (KWP) against Christians in northern Iraq. Christian Assyrians were also targeted in a series of bombings in Erbil in 1998 to 1999, and Assyrian groups have criticized the KRG for the lack of investigation. According to the US Department of State the KDP blockaded Assyrian villages in 1999 and \"later entered the villages and beat villagers\". However, after invervention by the International Committee of the Red Cross the KDP left the villages again.\n\nThe publication of satirical cartoons of the Islamic prophet Muhammad in the Danish newspaper \"Jyllands-Posten\" on September 30, 2005 led to an increase in violence against the Assyrian community. In the beginning, the cartoons did not get much attention at the time of its original publish, but when the Egyptian media picked up on the publication in late December 2005, violence and protests erupted around the world.\n\nOn January 29 six churches in the Iraqi cities of Baghdad and Kirkuk were targeted by car bombs, killing 13-year-old worshipper Fadi Raad Elias. No militants claimed to be retaliating for the pictures, nor is this the first time Iraqi churches have been bombed; but the bishop of the church stated \"The church blasts were a reaction to the cartoons published in European papers. But Christians are not responsible for what is published in Europe.\"\nMany Assyrians in Iraq now feel like \"Westerners should not give wild statements [as] everyone can attack us [in response]\" and \"Today I'm afraid to walk the streets, because I'm Christian.\"\n\nAlso on January 29, a Muslim Cleric in the Iraqi city of Mosul issued a fatwa stating, \"Expel the (Assyrian) Crusaders and infidels from the streets, schools, and institutions because they have offended the person of the prophet.\" It has been reported that Muslim students beat up a Christian student at Mosul University in response to the fatwa on the same day.\n\nOn February 6, leaflets were distributed in Ramadi, Iraq by the militant group \"The Military Wing for the Army of Justice\" demanding Christians to \"halt their religious rituals in churches and other worship places because they insulted Islam and Muslims.\"\n\nThe Pope Benedict XVI Islam controversy arose from a lecture delivered on 12 September 2006 by Pope Benedict XVI at the University of Regensburg in Germany. Many Islamic politicians and religious leaders registered protest against what they said was an insulting mischaracterization of Islam, contained in the quotation by the Pope of the following passage:\nAfter the Pope's comments were known throughout the Arab world, several churches were bombed by insurgent groups. A previously unknown Baghdad-based group, Kataab Ashbal Al-Islam Al-Salafi (Islamic Salafist Boy Scout Battalions) threatened to kill all Christians in Iraq if the Pope does not apologize to Muhammad within three days. Christian Leaders in Iraq have asked their parishioners not to leave their homes, after two Assyrians were stabbed and killed in Baghdad.\n\nThere have been reports of writing in Assyrian church doors stating \"If the Pope does not apologise, we will bomb all churches, kill more Christians and steal their property and money.\" \n\nThe Iraqi militia Jaish al-Mujahedin (Holy Warriors' Army) announced its intention to \"destroy their cross in the heart of Rome… and to hit the Vatican.\"\n\nDespite the Pope's comments dying down in the media, attacks on Assyrian Christians continued and on October 9, Islamic extremist group kidnapped priest Paulos Iskander in Mosul. Iskander's church as well as several other churches placed 30 large posters around the city to distance themselves from the Pope's words. The relatives of the Christian priest who was beheaded 3 days later in Mosul, have said that his Muslim captors had demanded his church condemn the pope's recent comments about Islam and pay a $350,000 ransom. Ancient Assyirian objects and buildings have been labeled by Kurdish authorities as Kurdish. Also many names of places and towns have been changed to Kurdish names. Observers have also reported that Kurdish forces often used to practice their shooting on important Assyrian cultural heritage sites. An example of Kurdification is the attack on the Assyrian town Rabatki in2013 by General Aref al-Zebari and his brother Habib al-Hares Zabari, reportedly by Kurdish peshmerga soldiers. It has been reported that many Assyrian girls are forced into prostitution by Kurdish criminal organizations, and the families of these girls have also been threatened.\n\nMassacres, ethnic cleansing, and harassment has increased since 2003, according to a 73-page report by the Assyrian International News Agency, released in Summer 2007.\nOn January 6, 2008 (Epiphany day,) five Assyrian Churches, one Armenian Church, and a monastery in Mosul and Baghdad were coordinately attacked with multiple car bombs. Iraqi vice-president Tariq al-Hashimi expressed his \"closeness to Christians\", whom he called \"brothers\" in the face of this \"attack that changed their joy to sadness and anxiety\". Two days later, on January 8, two more Churches were bombed in the city of Kirkuk; the Chaldean Cathedral of Kirkuk and the ACOE Maar Afram Church, wounding three bystandards. Since the start of the Iraq War, there have been at least 46 Churches and Monasteries bombed.\n\nLeaders of Iraq's Christian community estimate that over two-thirds of the country's Christian population may have fled the country or been internally displaced since the U.S.-led invasion in 2003. While exact numbers are unknown, reports suggest that whole neighborhoods of Christians have cleared out in the cities of Baghdad and Al-Basrah, and that both Sunni and Shiite insurgent groups and militias have threatened Christians.\nThe gravity of the situation prompted Shiite Grand Ayatollah Ali al-Sistani to ask Vice President Adil Abd al-Mahdi to take steps to protect the Christian community. Sunni imams in Baghdad have made similar statements to their congregations in Friday Prayer sermons.\n\nIncluding those mentioned already, many other Assyrian religious officials have been targeted since 2003. Chaldean Catholic priest Ragheed Aziz Ganni was murdered together with subdeacons Basman Yousef Dawid, Wahid Hanna Isho, and Gassan Isam Bidawed after the Sunday evening Eucharist at Mosul's Holy Spirit Chaldean Church. Paulos Faraj Rahho, Chaldean Catholic archbishop of Mosul, was found in a shallow grave in the northern city two weeks after he was kidnapped. Youssef Adel, a Syriac Orthodox priest with Saint Peter's Church in Baghdad's Karadda neighbourhood, was killed by gunmen while travelling on a car on April 5, 2008.\nOn April 11, President Bush was interviewed by Cliff Kincaid of the EWTN Global Catholic Network; after being informed about the deteriorating situation of the Assyrians, President Bush was quoted as saying \"This is a Muslim government that has failed to protect the Christians. In fact, it discriminates against them...It’s time to order U.S. troops to protect Christian churches and believers.\"\n\nIn October 2008, National Public Radio reported that a new phenomenon was spreading through the Assyrian Christian towns and villages of northern Iraq: Christian security forces, organized through their local churches, began manning checkpoints and working with the Iraqi police. Father Daoud Suleiman from the Assyrian town of Bartella testified that without the Christian militias, Bartella and other villages would be in much worse shape than they are now. A mysterious, media-shy, and wealthy Assyrian Sarkis Aghajan Mamendo was a key player in this apparently straightforward story of a small beleaguered minority learning to stand up for itself once more. He is the finance minister for the Kurdish regional government, and he is a member of the Kurdish Democratic Party believed to be close to Kurdish Prime Minister Nechirvan Barzani. New churches are going up across the north, paid for, everyone says, by Sarkis. New schools, more than 300 new apartments for displaced Christian families from the south, an Assyrian cultural center in Bartella — the list goes on.\n\nAttacks against the community began again in December 2009 in Mosul and picked in February 2010. During this three-month period, over 20 Christians were assassinated and many churches of Mosul were targeted. The attacks led to 4,300 Assyrians fleeing Mosul to the Nineveh plains where there is an Assyrian majority population.\nA report by the United Nations tracked the refugees and reported people fleeing to the following Assyrian towns and villages:\n\nThe deadliest attack against Assyrians since the war began was the 2010 Baghdad church attack which occurred on October 31, 2010. The attack left at least 58 worshipers dead, including 2 priests. More than 100 had been taken hostage by an operation al-Qaeda-linked Sunni insurgent group the Islamic State of Iraq claimed responsibility for.\n\nA 1950 CIA report on Iraq estimated 98,000 Chaldeans, 30,000 Nestorians (Assyrians), 25,000 Syriac Catholics and 12,000 Jacobites. The report used the name Assyrians, in the ethnic sense, for Nestorians, and also noted that Assyrians may be members of the Chaldean and Protestant Churches.\n\nThe Iraqi Minorities Council and the Minority Rights Group International estimated that Iraq's pre-war Assyrian population was 800,000.\n\nAccording to statistics gathered by the Catholic Church when doing censuses of Chaldean Catholic diocese in Iraq in 2012 and 2013, Chaldo-Assyrians in Iraq numbered 230,071 people.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4280721", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4280721", "title": "Italians in Germany", "text": "Italians in Germany\n\nItalians in Germany consist of ethnic Italian migrants to Germany and their descendants, both those originating from Italy as well as from among the communities of Italians in Switzerland. Most Italians moved to Germany for reasons of work, others for personal relations, study, or political reasons. Today, Italians in Germany form one of the largest Italian diasporas in the world and account for one of the largest immigrant groups in Germany.\n\nLarge numbers of Italians have resided in Germany since the early Middle Ages, particularly architects, craftsmen and traders. During the late Middle Ages and early modern times many Italians came to Germany for business, and relations between the two countries prospered. The political borders were also somewhat intertwined under the German princes' attempts to extend control over all the Holy Roman Empire, which extended from northern Germany down to southern Italy. During the Renaissance many Italian bankers, architects and artists moved to Germany and successfully integrated in the German society.\nWhen the huge Italian emigration of the 19th century began, only a few Italians moved to the German Empire under Prussian rule.\n\nWith Germany's post-World War II economic boom (Wirtschaftswunder), a large wave of immigrants from Italy relocated to Germany. Italy and Germany have been joint members of the European Coal and Steel Community (later the European Economic Community). Since the establishment of freedom of movement for workers between the two countries in 1961, more than 580,000 Italians migrated to Germany for work, mainly from southern and north-eastern Italy. Among the German cities Wolfsburg and Ludwigshafen had the highest share of Italian migrants in 2011 according to German Census data. \n\nThe workers in the Contemporary Art Museum of Casoria in Naples, Italy, proposed a plea of asylum to Germany.\n\nIn 2017 there wre 14 organized crime trials of Italian mafia groups. The following groups were involved:\n\n\nThe major activity of these groups was cocaine drug trafficking. In these trials 169 suspects were reported, of which 139 were Italian citizens.\n\nItalians in Germany are actively involved both in regional and federal German politics; areas of concern are European integration and assimilation.\n\nThey also had a substantial influence on the development of Fine Arts in Germany from Romanesque and Gothic architecture to contemporary fashion and design.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1110917", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1110917", "title": "Kasbah", "text": "Kasbah\n\nA kasbah (; , \"central part of a town or citadel\"; also known as qasaba, gasaba and quasabeh, in older English casbah or qasbah, in India qassabah and in Spanish alcazaba (remains of the Moorish Spain)) is a type of medina or fortress (citadel). The meaning of the word \"kasbah\" is varied, including keep, old city and watchtower or blockhouse. \n\nIn Morocco and in Iberia, the Arabic word form of \"kasbah\" frequently refers to multiple buildings in a keep, a citadel, or several structures behind a defensive wall. The Spanish word \"alcazaba\" is a cognate naming the equivalent building in Andalusia or Moorish Spain. In Portuguese, it evolved into the word \"alcáçova\". In Catalan, the evolution resulted in \"alcassaba\". A kasbah was a place for the local leader to live and a defense when a city was under attack. A kasbah has high walls, usually without windows. Sometimes, like in Tangiers, they were built on hilltops so that they could be more easily defended. Some were placed near the entrance to harbors. Having a kasbah built was a sign of wealth of some families in the city. When colonization started in 1830, in northern Algeria, there were a great number of kasbahs that lasted for more than 100 years.\n\nThe word \"kasbah\" may also be used to describe the old part of a city, in which case it has the same meaning as a medina quarter. Some of the prominent examples of kasbah as an old city is the Casbah of Algiers and the Casbah of Dellys. In Turkish and Urdu the word \"kasaba\" refers to a settlement larger than a village but smaller than a city; in short, a town. In Serbo-Croatian, \"kasaba\" (Cyrillic: касаба) means an undeveloped, provincial small town. In India, a qasbah is a small town distinguished by the presence of Muslim families of rank.\n\nIn Al-Bahah and Asir provinces of Saudi Arabia and in Yemen, the word \"qasaba\" usually refers to a single stone or rock tower, either as part of a tower house or a tower isolated on a hilltop or commanding a field. The Encyclopædia Britannica defines it as: \"Ancient qasaba (\"towers\") found in the province were used as lookouts or granaries.\" Another book describes these towers as follows: \"Apparently unique to Asir architecture are the qasaba towers. Controversy surrounds their function - some argue that they were built as lookouts, and others that they were keeps, or even granaries. Perhaps it is a combination, although the right position of a watchtower, on a hill top, is the wrong place for a keep or granary.\" Archeologists have found images of similar towers in the ruins of Qaryat al-Fāw, in the Rub' al-Khali or the Empty Quarter of Saudi Arabia, that date from between the third century BCE to the 4th century or our era. \"Homes rose two stories, supported by stone walls nearly two meters (6') thick and boasting such amenities as water-supply systems and second-floor latrines. One eye-catching mural faintly depicts a multi-story tower house with figures in the windows: Its design resembles similar dwellings today in Yemen and southern Saudi Arabia.\" \"Most of the qasabas have a circular plan, although some are square. Sometimes they have a band of quartz stones just below the windows or framing the windows- one well preserved examples is at the top of Wadi Ain. The remains of a martello tower-like stone structure are just off the dirt track north of Al-Masnah. It appears to be an interesting antecedent of the Asir farmhouse and perhaps closely related to the qasaba. It is in ruins now, but was once a dwelling and is strongly defensive.\" One account says about a traditional village in Al-Bahah, Saudi Arabia: \"Even the road that leads to the village is impressive, and several historical stone and slate towers dot the way. Al-Bahah Province is known as the region of 1001 towers, once built to protect villages, roads and plantations from rivalling tribes. Today, these towers are abandoned, and many of them are partially or completely in ruins.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33224685", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33224685", "title": "Laya dialect", "text": "Laya dialect\n\nLaya (Dzongkha: ལ་ཡ་ཁ་, ལ་ཡག་ཁ་; Wylie: \"la-ya-kha\", \"la-yag-kha\") is a Tibetic variety spoken by indigenous Layaps inhabiting the high mountains of northwest Bhutan in the village of Laya, Gasa District. Speakers also inhabit the northern regions of Thimphu (Lingzhi Gewog) and Punakha Districts. Its speakers are ethnically related to the Tibetans. Most speakers live at an altitude of , just below the Tsendagang peak. Laya speakers are also called \"Bjop\" by the Bhutanese, sometimes considered a condescending term. There were 1,100 speakers of Laya in 2003.\n\nLaya is a variety of Dzongkha, the national language of Bhutan. There is a limited mutual intelligibility with Dzongkha, mostly in basic vocabulary and grammar.\n\n"}
{"id": "664098", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=664098", "title": "List of language regulators", "text": "List of language regulators\n\nThis is a list of bodies that regulate standard languages, often called language academies. Language academies are motivated by, or closely associated with, linguistic purism and prestige, and typically publish prescriptive dictionaries, which purport to officiate and prescribe the meaning of words and pronunciations. A language regulator may also be descriptive, however, while maintaining (but not imposing) a standard spelling. Many language academies are private institutions, although some are governmental bodies in different states, or enjoy some form of government-sanctioned status in one or more countries. There may also be multiple language academies attempting to regulate the same language, sometimes based in different countries and sometimes influenced by political factors.\n\nMany world languages have one or more language academies. However, the degree of control that the academies exert over these languages does not render the latter controlled natural languages in the sense that the various kinds of \"simple English\" (e.g. Basic English, Simplified Technical English) or George Orwell's fictional Newspeak are. They instead remain natural languages to a considerable extent and are thus not formal languages such as Attempto Controlled English. They have a degree of standardization that allows them to function as standard languages (e.g. standard French). The English language has never had a formal regulator anywhere.\n\nApart from the Akademio de Esperanto, most auxiliary languages, also known as constructed languages (Conlangs) have no true linguistic regulators, language academies.\n\nEsperanto and Ido have been \"constructed\" (or planned) by a person or small group, before being adopted and further developed by communities of users through natural language evolution.\n\nBodies such as the Akademio de Esperanto look at questions of usage in the light of the original goals and principles of the language.\n\nSee also : International auxiliary languages\n\nThe auxiliary language Interlingua has no regulating body, as its vocabulary, grammar, and orthography are viewed as a product of ongoing social forces. In theory, Interlingua therefore evolves independent from any human regulator. Interlingua's vocabulary is verified and recorded by dynamically applying certain general principles to an existing set of natural languages and their etymologies. The International Auxiliary Language Association ceased to exist in 1954, and according to the secretary of Union Mundial de Interlingua \"Interlingua doesn't need its Academy\".\n\n"}
{"id": "22286491", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22286491", "title": "Lohani", "text": "Lohani\n\nThe Lohani(لوحانی), sometimes called Nuhani is a Pashtun tribe. The renowned personality and spiritual leader of Bettani tribe is Sheikh Mohammad Rohani (1220-1305 AD)(Pashto:شيخ محمد روحانى) also known as Shah Mohammad Rohani and Rohani Ba Ba was a Sufi cleric born around 1220 AD. The cleric, whose shrine in southern Afghanistan attracts thousands of Sufi visitors every year The Lohani(لوحانی), sometimes called Nuhani found in Pakistan especially in the region of Bannu, Dera Ismail Khan, Tank, Lakki Marwat, Shakargarh, Afghanistan and India (Bassi Dulat Khan). \n\nThey were a mostly pastoral and migratory tribe engaged in Commerce and Trade but nowadays most of them have settled down in the plains of DI Khan, Tank and Lakki Marwat. Lohanis have four branches, Marwat, Daulat Khel, MiaKhail and Tatoor. The Tatoor tribe was crushed by Nadir shah and Daulat khel (Nawab of Tank) who brought them near to extinction. Therefore, nowadays Tatoor tribe is generally dispersed in the region of Tank, Dera Ismail khan and FR Tank and especially found in village Tatoor near Tank city.\n\nLohanis, like other Lodi tribes, were originally inhabitants of Ghor. From Ghor they descended into Ghazni, and engaged in pastoral pursuits.Due to conflict with neighboring Ghilzais, they migrated to Katawaz and from there they moved to the plains of Daman in the 16th century. A big portion of the tribe migrated to India on invitation of Lodi Sultans of Delhi where they became the most prominent participants in the sultanate administration and army. During Ibrahim Lodi's reign, the Lohanis of south Bihar rebelled and carved out an independent kingdom for themselves which was later incorporated into Suri empire. In their homeland, conflict arose between Lohani clans over distribution of land and revenue of Daman tract and after some battles, the Marwat and MiaKhail clans of Lohani migrated from Daman to Lakki and DI Khan tracts respectively.\n\nJhalori dynasty of Lohani clan ruled Palanpur State in India from thirteenth century to twentieth century.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7710489", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7710489", "title": "Loharani", "text": "Loharani\n\nLoharani () is a Baloch tribe in Sibi District of Balochistan, Pakistan. The Loharani are one of four Baloch clans.\n"}
{"id": "1939276", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1939276", "title": "Minorities in Pakistan", "text": "Minorities in Pakistan\n\nPakistan has various religious minorities. According to the 1941 census of India, there were 5.9 million non-Muslims in the provinces that today form Pakistan. During and after Pakistan's independence in 1947, about 5 million Hindus and Sikhs emigrated, with Punjab alone accounting for migration of 3.9 million. Farahnaz Ispahani states that 23% of Pakistan's population, including Bangladesh, was non-Muslim minorities in 1947. Since the Partition of India, it has fallen to approximately 3%. In the 1951 census, West Pakistan had 1.6% Hindu population, while East Pakistan (modern Bangladesh) had 22.05%. By 1997, the percentage of Hindus remained stable at 1.6% in Pakistan, while Bangladesh has witnessed a decline with Hindus migrating from it because of insecurity due to fear of persecution, conflict, communal violence and poverty. The percentage of Hindus in Bangladesh had dropped to 9.7% by 2011, with non-Muslims accounting for 10.2%\nof the population.\n\nAccording to Western religious freedom and human rights monitoring groups, religious minorities face severe discrimination in Pakistan.\n\nAccording to the Government of Pakistan's National Database and Registration Authority (NADRA), in 2012, the population of registered religious minorities in Pakistan was as follows:\n\n\nAccording to the most recent (1998) census conducted by the Government of Pakistan, Hindus make up 1.20% of the population and Christians (Protestant and Roman Catholic) 1.9%, or around 2.3 million people. Other estimates put the numbers higher. Historically, there was also a small contingent of Jews in Pakistan who emigrated to Israel in 1948.\n\nThe U.S. State Department's International Religious Freedom Report 2002 estimates the Shi'a population between 10-12%, among which around 900,000 are Ismailis which is a sect of Shi'i Muslims and who pay tribute to their living spiritual leader, the Aga Khan. It also lists Christians at 2.09 million; Ahmadis at 286,000, Hindus at 1.03 million; Parsis, Buddhists, and Sikhs at 20,000 each; and Baha'is at 30,000.\n\nIn a 2011 book, Ishtiaq Ahmed wrote that \"Some independent studies, however, suggest that the non-Muslims population of Pakistan is nearly 10 per cent and Hindus, Christians and Ahmadis make up four million each. It is generally noted that while majorities play down minority figures, the minorities inflate them. This is especially true of the Ahmadiyya community. Official statistics return less than half a million for them while the Ahmadis claim to be around ten million.\"\n\nAccording to the 2012 United States Commission on International Religious Freedom (USCIRF) annual report, \"The government of Pakistan continues to engage in and tolerate systematic, ongoing, and egregious violations of freedom of religion or belief.\" The USCIRF has designated Pakistan as \"country of particular concern\" since 2002. The report argues that \"The country’s blasphemy laws, used predominantly in Punjab but also nationwide, target members of religious minority communities and dissenting Muslims and this frequently results in imprisonment. The USCIRF is aware of at least 16 individuals on death row and 20 more serving life sentences. The blasphemy law, along with anti-Ahmadi laws that effectively criminalise various practices of their faith, has created a climate of vigilante violence. Hindus have suffered from the climate of violence and hundreds have fled Pakistan for India.\"\n\nFarahnaz Ispahani who was the media advisor to the President of Pakistan from 2008 to 2012, has blamed the successive Pakistani governments of pursuing a \"slow genocide\" against minorities to shore up their political base, especially accusing Muhammad Zia-ul-Haq of creating a militant group to target them, the Sipah-e-Sahaba Pakistan whose sole job was to harass Shias. A BBC FAQ notes that \"Beginning in 1980, a slew of clauses was added to the chapter of religious offences in the Pakistan Penal Code. These clauses can be grouped into two categories - the anti-Ahmadi laws and the blasphemy laws.\" The BBC notes that three is widespread popular support for these laws in Pakistan, and that two prominent critics of these laws, Salman Taseer and Shahbaz Bhatti, have been assassinated in 2011. Regarding the blasphemy laws, the BBC observes that: \"Hundreds of Christians are among the accused - at least 12 of them were given the death sentence for blaspheming against the Prophet.\"\n\nThe Human Rights Watch noted that the condition of religious minorities deteriorated sharply in 2012, with the government unwilling or unable to provide protection against attacks by extremists or to reign in abuses committed by its own security forces. Mass anti-Christian violence recently occurred in the 2009 Gojra riots and in the 2013 Joseph Colony riot and the 2013 Gujranwala riot. Recent anti-Shia violence includes the February 2012 Kohistan Shia Massacre, the August 2012 Mansehra Shia Massacre and the particularly deadly January 2013 and February 2013 Quetta bombings. The Ahmadiyya community in Pakistan was targeted in the similarly deadly May 2010 attacks on Ahmadi mosques in Lahore; the \"New York Times\" noted on that occasion that \"Minority sects like the Ahmadis and the Shiites and have come under increasing pressure as religious extremism has taken hold, fomented by sectarian groups like Jaish-e-Mohammad and Lashkar-e-Jhangvi, formerly state-sponsored organizations.\"\n\nA survey carried out by All Pakistan Hindu Rights Movement Pakistan's revealed that out of 428 Hindu temples in Pakistan only around 20 survive today and they remain neglected by the Evacuee Trust Property Board which controls those while the rest had been converted for other uses since 1990. In 1990s nearly 1000 Hindu temples were targeted by the frenzied Islamists for vandalism destruction according to journalist Reema Abbasi. Minorities sometimes have to hide their identity, adopt Muslim names and mannerism to survive and live in fear in areas like Lahore while hundreds of temples have been vandalized or demolished.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53645073", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53645073", "title": "Mrs Graham's XI", "text": "Mrs Graham's XI\n\nMrs Graham's XI was a women's football team formed by Helen Matthews in Edinburgh, Scotland in 1881. It is considered the first British women's football team and a pioneering team in the history of the sport. Because it was not safe for women to play football without harassment, the players used pseudonyms to protect their identities. Matthews, also a goalkeeper for the team, claimed to be \"Mrs Graham\".\n\nThe first record of the team coming together to play football occurred on 9 May 1881, at Edinburgh's Easter Road Stadium. The match was billed as a Scotland v England international.\n\nJust over a week later, on 20 May 1881, the teams played in Glasgow in front of 5,000 spectators. The match was abandoned in the 55th minute after a violent pitch invasion during which the women were \"roughly jostled\", and chased by a mob as they left the grounds. Further games resulted in similar pitch invasions, which soon resulting in ending this early attempt to introduce women's football.\n\nThe press coverage, which would dominate coverage of women's football for the next century, was clearly established in 1881: barely disguised contempt regarding player appearance, including costume, and the standard of play, overlaid with a certainty that football was a rough man's game unsuitable for women.\n\nAn attempt to form a new club was made by Matthews with Nettie Honeyball (also a pseudonym) founding the British Ladies' Football Club on 1 January 1895. \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38444317", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38444317", "title": "Muhammadzai (Hashtnagar)", "text": "Muhammadzai (Hashtnagar)\n\nThe Muhammadzai (also Mohammadzai, Mohammedzai, Mohmandzai, Mamanzai, etc.) is a Sarbani Pashtun tribe. There should not be confused with the Muhammadzai of the Barakzai Durrani, who were for many years the ruling family of Afghanistan. \nThis group of Muhammadzai is located in (Charsadda) modern day Pakistan, has an altogether different Pashtun lineage, son of Zamand (Jamand) third son of Kharshbun.\n\nAccording to Pashtun genealogy, the Muhammadzai are descended from Qais Abdur Rashid through his son Sarbani, and his son Kharshbun. The Afghan Muhammadzai (Barakzai) are descendants of Sharkhbun and Kharshbun is his brother. Kharshbun had three sons, Kand , Zamand , Kasi. Muhammad, was Zamand (Jamand) son so they Popular with the Muhammadzai tribe (see chart below).\n\nThe Muhamamdzai are found primarily in Hashtnagar, an area in today's Charsadda District, Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, Pakistan that borders the Swat River's left bank. They were originally said to have resided zhob region, but moved to Charsadda region and were given the Hashtnagar by the Yusufzai. Their geography is integral to the tribe's internal organization, because the branches of the tribe and the villages they each inhabit share the same names. The following breakdown comes from an 1878 report on what was then part of the Peshawar District:\nTangi (Barazai and Nasratzai), Sherpao, Umarzai, Turangzai, Utmanzai, DargaiRajjar, Kot TarnabDargai these all tribes living in Charsadda, and Prang. Rose's tribal glossary adds that \"with them are settled a few descendants of Muhammad's brothers, from one of whom, Kheshgi, one of their principal villages is named.\" Their irrigated, rice-bearing lands along the Swat River are known as the lowlands or sholgira, while the high lands are referred to as the maira.\n\nTwo of the most famous Muhammadzai tribesmen were the Pashtun leaders Dr Khan Sahib and his brother Abdul Ghaffar Khan and his grandson Asfandyar Wali Khan. They are originally from Utmanzai, where their father was a well-to-do landlord and village khan.\n"}
{"id": "18798872", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18798872", "title": "Orang Seletar language", "text": "Orang Seletar language\n\nOrang Seletar (Slitar) is a language of the Orang Laut of the south coast of the Malay Peninsula. It is very close to Malay, and may be counted as a dialect of that language. The speaking population is unknown, but is likely in the range of a few thousand. The language is considered severely endangered by UNESCO.\n"}
{"id": "247332", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=247332", "title": "Pacific Islander", "text": "Pacific Islander\n\nPacific Islanders or Pasifikas, are the peoples of the Pacific Islands. It is a geographic and often ethnic/racial term to describe the inhabitants of any of the three major sub-regions of Oceania: Micronesia, Melanesia and Polynesia. These people speak various Austronesian languages.\n\nNew Zealand has the largest concentration of Pacific Islanders in the world. However, the majority of its people are not identified as Pacific Islanders—instead during the 20th century and into the 21st century the country saw a steady stream of immigration from Polynesian countries such as Samoa, Tonga, the Cook Islands, Niue and French Polynesia.\n\nAccording to the \"Encyclopædia Britannica\", the Pacific islands consist of three regions:\n\nThe islands are scattered across a triangle covering the east-central region of the Pacific Ocean. The triangle is bound by the Hawaiian Islands in the north, New Zealand in the west, and Easter Island in the east. The rest of Polynesia includes the Samoan islands (American Samoa and Western Samoa), the Cook Islands, French Polynesia (Tahiti and The Society Islands, Marquesas Islands, Austral Islands and the Tuamotu Archipelago), Niue Island, Tokelau and Tuvalu, Tonga, Wallis and Futuna, Rotuma Island and Pitcairn Island.\n\nThe island of New Guinea, the Bismarck and Louisiade archipelagos, the Admiralty Islands, Bougainville Island, Papua New Guinea, Aru Islands, the Solomon Islands, the Santa Cruz Islands (part of the Solomon Islands), New Caledonia and Loyalty Islands, Vanuatu (formerly New Hebrides), Fiji, Norfolk Island and various smaller islands.\n\nThe islands of Kiribati, Nauru, the Marianas (Guam and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands), the Republic of the Marshall Islands, Palau, and the Federated States of Micronesia (Yap, Chuuk, Pohnpei, and Kosrae, all in the Caroline Islands).\n\nEthnolinguistically, those Pacific islanders who reside in Oceania are divided into two different ethnic classifications.\n\nIn Australia the term South Sea Islander was used to describe Australian descendants of people from the more than 80 islands in the western Pacific who had been brought to Australia to work on the sugar fields of Queensland, in the 19th century called Kanakas. The \"Pacific Island Labourers Act 1901\" was enacted to restrict entry of Pacific Islanders to Australia and to authorise their deportation. In the legislation Pacific Islanders were defined as:\n\"Pacific Island Labourer\" includes all natives not of European extraction of any island except the islands of New Zealand situated in the Pacific Ocean beyond the Commonwealth [of Australia] as constituted at the commencement of this Act.\n\nIn 2008 a Pacific Seasonal Worker Pilot Scheme was announced as a three-year pilot scheme. The scheme provides visas for workers from Kiribati, Tonga, Vanuatu and Papua New Guinea to work in Australia. The pilot scheme includes one country each from Melanesia (Vanuatu), Polynesia (Tonga) and Micronesia (Kiribati), countries which already send workers to New Zealand under its seasonal labour scheme. Australia's pilot scheme also includes Papua New Guinea.\n\nLocal usage in New Zealand uses \"Pacific islander\" (or \"Pasifika\") to distinguish those who have emigrated from one of these areas in modern times from the indigenous New Zealand Māori, who are also Polynesian but arrived in New Zealand centuries earlier.\n\nIn the 2013 New Zealand census, 7.4 percent of the New Zealand population identified with one or more Pacific ethnic groups, although 62.3 percent of these were born in New Zealand. Those with a Samoan background make up the largest proportion, followed by Cook Islands Maori, Tongan, and Niuean. Some smaller island populations such as Niue and Tokelau have the majority of their nationals living in New Zealand.\n\nTo celebrate the diverse Pacific island cultures, the Auckland region hosts several Pacific island festivals. Two of the major ones are Polyfest, which showcases performances of the secondary school cultural groups in the Auckland region, and Pasifika, a festival that celebrates Pacific island heritage through traditional food, music, dance, and entertainment.\n\nAccording to the U.S. Bureau of the Census, Population Estimates Program (PEP), a \"Native Hawaiian and Other Pacific Islander\" is \"A person having origins in any of the original peoples of Hawaii, Guam, Samoa, or other Pacific islands. It includes people who indicate their race as 'Native Hawaiian', 'Guamanian or \"Chamorro', 'Samoan', and 'Other Pacific Islander' or provide other detailed Pacific Islander responses.\"\n\nAccording to the Office of Management and Budget, \"Native Hawaiian or Other Pacific Islander\" refers to a person having origins in any of the original peoples of Hawaii, Guam, Samoa, or other Pacific Islands.\n\nThe term Pacific Islands American is used for ethnic Pacific islander residents in U.S. states, and in the territories of the United States in the region.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28261685", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28261685", "title": "Pashtun name", "text": "Pashtun name\n\nPashtun names are names used among the Pashtun people. \n\nPashtun given names are derived up from the Pashto language itself. When Islam was introduced officially in Afghanistan, other names adopted by Pashtuns came from Arabic though at times, take the phonology of Pashto, e.g. the Arabic \"Zulaikha\", a woman's name, can become \"Zlaikha\" due to the consonant cluster nature of Pashto. Other names come directly from Pashto itself and will display pronunciation differences germane to the two main accents of Pashto. For example \"Zarlakht\" a Pashtun girl's name as pronounced in Peshawar and Kabul (and other northern Pashtuns) will be pronounced as \"Zarlasht\" by the Pashtuns of Kandahar and Quetta (as well as other Pashtun populations who inhabit regions further to the southern regions of Afghanistan and northern Pakistan).\n\nSurnames can either come from being borrowed from other languages or from the Pashto language or used from given names. There are many different types of surnames used among Pashtuns. \n\nMany Pashtuns that come from developing regions are known by their mononym due to a lack of a legal identification system. They may also have multiple mononyms (i.e. may be called by multiple personal names). However, they will know the name of their tribe even prior to registering a legal identity.\n\nUnderstanding Pashtun tribal systems makes it easier to understand Pashtun surnames based on tribal lineage. \nMany Pashto last names come from the name of the tribe or the subdivisions of a specific tribe: in this case their name would end in -zai (son) or khel (group), (e.g. a Ghilzai Pashtun would likely have Ghilzai as their last name and a Pashtun from specifically the Adamkhel subtribe may use Adamkhel as their last name). Some tribal names have no suffix (e.g. Afridi, Sarbanri, Abdali). One must understand that many Pashtun tribes are composed of super tribes and subtribes, in other words, there are several tribes within tribes branching off and ranked in different tiers. For example, an Omarkhel Yusufzai Pashtun would have the option to use the name of their super tribe name \"Sarbanri\", their tribe Yusufzai, or Omarkhel, a subdivision of Yusufzai. Tribal names are usually patrilineal. The ancestral line of females generally is not included as part of the identity.\n\nSome Pashtun families that modernize pick a random name typically derived from Persian or Arabic and continue it as a family name down the line. That name may have little to no relation to their tribal standings. Other-times, the first name of the father may become the last name of the child, and so on and so forth.\n\nSurnames based on location are not common due to the rural transhumance semi-nomadic nature of Pashtuns in most their history, there are not surnames tied to a cities or locations. But rarely some tribes identify them with location like khostwal, Bannuchis, Bunerwal etc. This is why Pashtuns are identified with groups of people moving around. However, locations are given a name based on the people that occupy them.\n\nFew Pashtun communities use the name \"Pashtun\" as their last name, as Gujjars will use Gujjar or Baloch people will use Baloch. These are names of the undivided ethnic groups. Pathan is used as a surname among Pashtun communities living in the Indian subcontinent because they are known as Pathans or Pashtuns to their neighbouring communities, so they simplify it as a surname rather than their tribal name (it is important to mention one's tribal surname among Pashtuns, but in lands where they are a minority Afghans or Pathans will often be used instead). Afghan is an archaic name, and has been used among Pashtuns in Iran to signify other Iranians their Pashtun ancestry because they are known as Afghans to Iranians and the Arab world. \n\nKhan is also a name used commonly among Pashtuns, though it is not native to the Pashtun language and was adopted by Pashtuns via cross cultural exchanges between Turko-Mongol peoples and the Pashtuns when the Pashtun lands were ruled by Mongol peoples and the Turk people. Khan also means king or leader or strong or royal etc., which could be another reason for its adoption. Mostly Khan is used by those pashtuns who have served Turko-Mongol rulers over central Asia and south Asia\n\nPashtun names are found among the Pashtun population, and some Tajiks and South Asians will carry Pashtun names, a sign of Pashtun ancestry among them, at-least patrilineal ancestry. The dardic Pashayis and Indo-Aryan Hindkowans do not speak Pashto but have 30-60% of their people familiar with and living in a Pashtun culture. The assimilated communities may have traces of people with given names derived exclusively from Pashto.\n\n"}
{"id": "940606", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=940606", "title": "Population growth", "text": "Population growth\n\nIn biology or human geography, population growth is the increase in the number of individuals in a population.\nMany of the world's countries, including many in Sub-Saharan Africa, the Middle East, South Asia and South East Asia, have seen a sharp rise in population since the end of the Cold War. The fear is that high population numbers are putting further strain on natural resources, food supplies, fuel supplies, employment, housing, etc. in some of the less fortunate countries. For example, the population of Chad has ultimately grown from 6,279,921 in 1993 to 10,329,208 in 2009, further straining its resources. Vietnam, Mexico, Nigeria, Egypt, Ethiopia, and the DRC are witn\"essing a similar growth in population.\"'\n\nGlobal human population growth amounts to around 83 million annually, or 1.1% per year. The global population has grown from 1 billion in 1800 to 7.616 billion in 2018. It is expected to keep growing, and estimates have put the total population at 8.6 billion by mid-2030, 9.8 billion by mid-2050 and 11.2 billion by 2100. Many nations with rapid population growth have low standards of living, whereas many nations with low rates of population growth have high standards of living.\n\nPopulation began growing rapidly in the Western world early in the industrial revolution of the late 18th century. The reasons for the \"Modern Rise of Population\" were particularly investigated by the British health scientist Thomas McKeown (1912-1988). In his publications, McKeown challenged four theories about the population growth: \nAlthough the McKeown thesis has been heavily disputed, recent studies have confirmed the value of his ideas. His work is pivotal for present day thinking about population growth, birth control, public health and medical care. McKeown had a major influence on many population researchers, such as health economists and Nobel prize winners Robert W. Fogel (1993) and Angus Deaton (2015). The latter considered McKeown as 'the founder of social medicine'.\n\nThe \"population growth rate\" is the rate at which the number of individuals in a population increases in a given time period, expressed as a fraction of the initial population. Specifically, population growth rate refers to the change in population over a unit time period, often expressed as a percentage of the number of individuals in the population at the beginning of that period. This can be written as the formula, valid for a sufficiently small time interval:\n\nA positive growth rate indicates that the population is increasing, while a negative growth rate indicates that the population is decreasing. A growth ratio of zero indicates that there were the same number of individuals at the beginning and end of the period—a growth rate may be zero even when there are significant changes in the birth rates, death rates, immigration rates, and age distribution between the two times.\n\nA related measure is the net reproduction rate. In the absence of migration, a net reproduction rate of more than 1 indicates that the population of females is increasing, while a net reproduction rate less than one (sub-replacement fertility) indicates that the population of females is decreasing.\n\nMost populations do not grow exponentially, rather they follow a logistic model. Once the population has reached its carrying capacity, it will stabilize and the exponential curve will level off towards the carrying capacity, which is usually when a population has depleted most its natural resources.\n\nThe growth of a population can often be modelled by the logistic equation\n\nwhere\n\nAs it is a separable differential equation, the population may be solved explicitly, producing a logistic function:\n\nwhere formula_8 and formula_9 is the initial population at time 0.\n\nIn 2017, the estimated annual growth rate was 1.1%. The CIA World Factbook gives the world annual birthrate, mortality rate, and growth rate as 1.86%, 0.78%, and 1.08% respectively. The last 100 years have seen a massive fourfold increase in the population, due to medical advances, lower mortality rates, and an increase in agricultural productivity made possible by the Green Revolution.\n\nThe annual increase in the number of living humans peaked at 88.0 million in 1989, then slowly declined to 73.9 million in 2003, after which it rose again to 75.2 million in 2006. In 2017, the human population increased by 83 million. Generally, developed nations have seen a decline in their growth rates in recent decades, though annual growth rates remain above 2% in poverty-stricken countries of the Middle East and Sub-Saharan Africa, and also in South Asia, Southeast Asia, and Latin America.\n\nIn some countries the population is declining, especially in Eastern Europe, mainly due to low fertility rates, high death rates and emigration. In Southern Africa, growth is slowing due to the high number of AIDS-related deaths. Some Western Europe countries might also experience population decline. Japan's population began decreasing in 2005; it now has the highest standard of living in the world.\n\nThe United Nations Population Division projects world population to reach 11.2 billion by the end of the 21st century, but Sanjeev Sanyal has argued that global fertility will fall below the replacement rate in the 2020s and that world population will peak below 9 billion by 2050, followed by a long decline. A 2014 study in \"Science\" concludes that the global population will reach 11 billion by 2100, with a 70% chance of continued growth into the 22nd century.\n\nAccording to United Nations population statistics, the world population grew by 30%, or 1.6 billion humans, between 1990 and 2010. In number of people the increase was highest in India (350 million) and China (196 million). Population growth was among highest in the United Arab Emirates (315%) and Qatar (271%).\nMany of the world's countries, including many in Sub-Saharan Africa, the Middle East, South Asia and South East Asia, have seen a sharp rise in population since the end of the Cold War. The fear is that high population numbers are putting further strain on natural resources, food supplies, fuel supplies, employment, housing, etc. in some of the less fortunate countries. For example, the population of Chad has ultimately grown from 6,279,921 in 1993 to 10,329,208 in 2009, further straining its resources. Vietnam, Mexico, Nigeria, Egypt, Ethiopia, and the DRC are witnessing a similar growth in population.\n\nThe following table gives some example countries:\n\nPopulation growth rates vary by world region, with the highest growth rates in Sub-Saharan Africa and the lowest in Europe. For example, from 1950 to 2010, Sub-Saharan African grew over three and a half times, from about 186 million to 856 million. On the other hand, Europe only increased by 35%, from 547 million in 1950 to 738 million in 2010. As a result of these varying population growths, Sub-Saharan Africa changed from 7.4% of world population in 1950 to 12.4% in 2010, while Europe declined from 22% to 11% in the same time period.\n\nAccording to the UN's 2017 revision to its population projections, world population is projected to reach 11.2 billion by 2100 compared to 7.6 billion in 2017. In 2011, Indian economist Sanjeev Sanyal disputed the UN's figures and argued that birth rates will fall below replacement rates in the 2020s. According to his projections, population growth will be only sustained till the 2040s by rising longevity, but will peak below 9 bn by 2050. Conversely, a 2014 paper by demographers from several universities and the United Nations Population Division projected that the world's population would reach about 10.9 billion in 2100 and continue growing thereafter. One of its authors, Adrian Raftery, a University of Washington professor of statistics and of sociology, says \"The consensus over the past 20 years or so was that world population, which is currently around 7 billion, would go up to 9 billion and level off or probably decline. We found there’s a 70 percent probability the world population will not stabilize this century. Population, which had sort of fallen off the world’s agenda, remains a very important issue.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "1685936", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1685936", "title": "Private highway", "text": "Private highway\n\nA private highway is a highway owned and operated for profit by private industry. Private highways are common in Asia and Europe; in addition, a few have been built in the United States on an experimental basis. Typically, private highways are built by companies that charge tolls for a period while the debt is retired, after which the highway is turned over to government control. This allows governments to fulfill immediate transportation needs despite their own budget constraints, while still retaining public ownership of the roads in the long term.\n\nAn obstacle to private highways is that government regulation can stifle price flexibility and introduce negotiation and paperwork requirements that increase operational expenses, while having to compete against free public roads. In addition, private highways lack some advantages that governments have, such as sovereign immunity against liability for accidents, the use of eminent domain power to acquire private property for roads and the ability to issue tax-exempt securities.\n\nFree-market roads are advocated by libertarians, who consider them more efficient, safer, and more cost-effective than public roads.\n\nThe Interstate Highway System provided for in the Federal Aid Highway Act was a federally funded, non-toll system. According to Simon Hakim and Edwin Blackstone, \"by 1989, [private] roads comprised just of the 3.8 million miles of streets and roads in the United States and only out of the of the interstate system.\"\n\nThe National Center for Policy Analysis and the Cato Institute have proposed that the Demsetz auctions commonly used to award franchises be replaced with Present Value of Revenues auctions in order to reduce risk and thus required rates of return by private highway owners. Under this system, contractors would bid an amount equal to the present value of cash flows from user fees they are willing to accept for the project. The lowest bid would win.\n\nBoarnet and DiMento believe that private highways will become more important as the rise of gasoline-efficient hybrids causes a decline in gas tax revenues.\n\nMany highways are constructed under a \"build-operate-transfer\" model in which ownership ultimately goes to the government.\n\nAs of 2003, the Hong Kong government was planning to securitize five toll tunnels and a toll bridge through bond issues. India also has a private highway under-construction between the two cities of Bangalore and Mysore in the state of Karnataka. A vast number of the country's road projects have been upgraded under a public-private partnership, thus operating similar to private highways. In Indonesia, all toll roads are built by private companies, and private toll roads are being built in Bangladesh.\n\nMexico has some highways operated by private companies. The 108 km Highway 407 ETR through the Greater Toronto Area is operated privately under a 99-year lease agreement with the provincial government. The highway uses electronic toll collection. Users who do not have a toll tag (called a \"transponder\") in their vehicle are tracked by automatic number plate recognition, with the toll bill being mailed to the address of the plate on file. There are also some private highways in the United States.\n\nOf the 11,000 kilometers of France's highways, 8,000 km are under private concession. 3,120 kilometers of Italy's highways (comprising 56% of the country's toll roads) are controlled by Autostrade Concessioni e Costruzioni Autostrade. According to Forbes, \"Autostrade was an early Electronic Age entry, computerizing to its highway system in 1988\". The M6 Toll was the first private toll motorway in the United Kingdom. The project was described by urbantransport-technology.com as a \"43 km dual three lane (plus hard shoulder), £485.5 million motorway\" with six toll stations.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36267898", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36267898", "title": "Prostitution in Libya", "text": "Prostitution in Libya\n\nProstitution in Libya is illegal, but common. Since the \"Popular Revolution\" in 1973, laws based on Sharia law's \"zina\" are used against prostitutes; the punishment can be 100 lashes. Exploitation of prostitutes, living off the earnings of prostitution or being involved in the running of brothels is outlawed by Article 417 of the Libyan Penal Code. Buying sexual services isn't prohibited by law, but may contravene Sharia law.\n\nMany of the sex workers are from Nigeria (over 1,000 in 2015). There are also sex workers from other sub-Saharan African countries such as Ghana, Liberia and Sierra Leone. Desperate to flee the poverty of their countries, they have often been trafficked to Libya with the promise of a job in Italy. Some are working as prostitutes in Libya to pay off debt bondage in the hope of travelling on to Italy. \n\nAlthough he ordered the closure of Libya's brothels when he came to power, the former leader of the country, Colonel Gaddafi, and his sons maintained upmarket brothels on ranches. They had several pimps working for them to ensure a continuing supply of women.\n\nLibya is a destination and transit country for men and women from sub-Saharan Africa and Asia subjected to sex trafficking. Instability and lack of government oversight continued to allow for human trafficking crimes to persist and become highly profitable for traffickers. As reported by international organisations in 2016, trafficking victims—including men, women, and children—are highly vulnerable to extreme violence and other human rights violations in Libya by government officials.\n\nMigrants in Libya are extremely vulnerable to trafficking, including those seeking employment in Libya or transiting Libya en route to Europe. Prostitution rings reportedly subject sub-Saharan women to sex trafficking in brothels, particularly in southern Libya. Nigerian women are at increased risk of being forced into prostitution. Trafficking and smuggling networks that reach into Libya from Niger, Nigeria, Chad, Eritrea, Ethiopia, Somalia, Sudan, and other sub-Saharan states subject migrants to forced prostitution through fraudulent recruitment, confiscation of identity and travel documents, withholding or non-payment of wages, and debt bondage. \n\nSince mid-2015, ISIS in Libya has abducted and taken into captivity at least 540 migrants and refugees, including at least 63 women whom ISIS forced into sexual slavery for its fighters.\n\nThe United States Department of State Office to Monitor and Combat Trafficking in Persons ranks Libya as a \"Special Case\" country.\n"}
{"id": "900365", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=900365", "title": "Qaratay", "text": "Qaratay\n\nQaratays are a Mordvinian ethnic group in Kamsko-Ustyinsky District, Tatarstan around the village of Mordovsky Karatay. They speak a variety of the Tatar language complemented by Moksha words, which is sometimes considered as a Qaratay Dialect of the Kazan Tatar language. They number about 100.\n\nOnce they lived in three villages, but one of them was submerged by Kuybyshev Reservoir.Another one was re-settled as \"unprospective\" during the 1950s.\nThe village of Mordovsky Karatay became the last Qaratay village.\n\nTheir ancestors were Uralic tribes who lived in the territory of today Tatarstan and were assimilated by Volga Bolgars and Tatars between the 8th and 15th centuries. Living around Tatars, they started speaking a Tatar language. Neighbouring Mordvins in Tetyushsky District, however, still speak a Uralic language.\n"}
{"id": "11659537", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11659537", "title": "Selako people", "text": "Selako people\n\nSelako, also known as Salako, Silakau, Selakau, Selako Dayaks, Bidayuh Selako, Kata Diri' or Damea is an indigenous Dayak ethnic group that lives in the westernmost part of Borneo island. In Indonesia, they are found in districts such as Tujuhbelas, Samalantan, Paloh, Tebas, Telukkeramat and Sejangkung of Sambas Regency, and Bengkayang Regency, West Kalimantan. While in Malaysia, most Selakos are settled in areas such as Sematan settlement in Lundu, Sarawak. They are classified as part of the Bidayuh tribe linguistically and geographically. They speak Selako language (also known as Kendayan, not to be confused with Kedayan), which is a branch of Malayic (especially Malayic Dayak) languages instead of Bornean or Land Dayak like most Dayaks, besides Selako they also speak Malaysian and Sarawak Malay in Malaysia and Indonesian in Indonesia. Many Selakos are Christians, they are mostly Anglicans, Bornean Evangelicals and Roman Catholics following missionary work in the 19th century.\n\n"}
{"id": "56502308", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56502308", "title": "Shabir Choudhry", "text": "Shabir Choudhry\n\nShabir Choudhry is a British national and a Kashmiri leader, rights and peace activist, politician, academician and writer. He helped form the Kashmir Youth Movement in 1973, the Jammu and Kashmir Liberation Front in 1976 and later on the Kashmir National Party in 2008. He resigned from each of these after being discouraged or opposed to the direction they were headed. He went to United Kingdom in 1966 where he continues his struggle against forces of occupation, terrorism, extremism and religious intolerance in Azad Kashmir and Kashmir through regular statements, articles, press releases, conference and videos. He is a British national as well as a Pakistani/Kashmiri national.\n\n\nHe has been accused by the Inter Services Intelligence (ISI), Pakistan's Intelligence Agency, of being tasked by India's foreign intelligence agency, the Research and Analysis Wing (RAW), of trying to ‘sabotage’ the China Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC) project as well as other activities against the state of Pakistan. The Asian Human Rights Commission (AHRC) came out in support of Shabir Choudhry during this controversy.\n\n\n\n\nhttp://drshabirchoudhry.blogspot.in/\n"}
{"id": "51027823", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51027823", "title": "Sickhouse", "text": "Sickhouse\n\nSickhouse is a 2016 thriller that was written and directed by Hannah Macpherson and starring YouTube personality Andrea Russett. The film was initially released between April 29 and May 3, 2016 on the instant image messaging mobile app Snapchat via Russett's account in one to ten second increments in the mobile 9:16 vertical orientation. On June 1, 2016 the film's production company, Indigenous Media, released a 68-minute full length version was released to VOD. This version of \"Sickhouse\" utilized the clips released to Snapchat, which made up the bulk of the film, as well as new, additional material.\n\nThe film's plot centers around Russett, who ventures to a supposedly haunted cabin named \"Sickhouse\" with her fictitious cousin, and two social media addicts, in an attempt to investigate its lore. The actors for \"Sickhouse\" improvised most of their dialogue as the movie was filmed in real-time on Snapchat. Since the movie's release \"Sickhouse\" has been compared to the 2014 horror movie \"Unfriended\", for its usage of social media as a storytelling technique, and the 1999 film \"The Blair Witch Project\", for its similar premise.\n\nDue to the film's popularity online, a sequel to the film was greenlit in July 2016.\n\nThe film begins with Snapchat personality Andrea Russett announcing to her followers that her cousin Taylor was flying to visit her for the weekend. This coincides with a Twitter request she had received from Sean O'Donnell, who wants Andrea to visit a supposedly haunted cabin called \"Sickhouse\". Once Taylor arrives the two women bond and Andrea teaches her cousin to use her Snapchat, which Taylor uses to publish a video of Andrea sleeping, the first of many videos posted by Taylor throughout the film.\n\nThe next day Andrea discovers death threats on her cousin's Facebook page, revealing that Taylor actually came to Los Angeles to escape a dire situation back at home. The subject then changes to the Sickhouse and the two read a website that explains the legend of the home and the Sickwife who lived there. They also run into two of Andrea's fans, who ask to take a picture with her. Infatuated with her cousin's life and freedom, Taylor decides that she wants to remain with Andrea forever. Later that night the two cousins attend a house party with Sean and two others, Lukas and JC. Lukas, who has visited Sickhouse before, goes over the rules of the Sickhouse: don't make noise, never go inside, and always leave a gift. During the party, Taylor silently observes Sean and Andrea discussing her before sharing a kiss, fact that upsets Taylor.\nThe group sets out for the Sickhouse the following day despite warnings from local residents to stay away. As they grow closer to the cabin Taylor continues to broadcast using Andrea's account, growing irritated when others try to use their phones to document the trip. The group also runs into the two fans again, which Andrea dismisses as a coincidence. After they make it to the woods the group decides to camp out and Andrea has sex with Sean while Taylor loses her virginity to Lukas. The following day they continue to follow clues leading to the Sickhouse and discover the cabin and its altar of gifts. Andrea follows the rules and leaves a gift, however both Lukas and Taylor decide to steal gifts. Lukas drinks from his stolen flask and becomes violently ill and during the night the group is terrorized by strange noises and faint images of the “Sickwife.\nThe following morning Taylor sends out a broadcast on her own, stating that she would “do anything to not go home\". The group return to the Sickhouse to replace the stolen gifts, only for Taylor to run inside. Sean decides to follow her, leaving Andrea and Lukas to wait outside. Soon after Taylor runs out of the house and the door slams shut behind her. The trio runs away leaving Sean behind, only to see a woman in a wedding dress walking through the woods. They return to the house and split up in order to find Sean. They instead find the two fans, one of whom is dressed as the Sickwife. They start to explain that they were just pranking them, only for the two to start becoming uncontrollably sick. As Taylor runs from the house the viewer is shown Sean and Lukas lying sick on the ground, with the latter pleading for help; Andrea is then snatched out of view. Taylor is knocked unconscious and the phone drops to the ground, where it records for a little while longer.\nWhen she wakes Taylor decides to continue sending out snaps despite having no cellphone reception, in the hopes that once the reception returns the videos will upload and someone will send the police to save them. While wandering through the house she finds Lukas. Taylor also believes that she can hear Andrea in the basement and goes to look for her, even as Lukas begs her not to go. In the basement Taylor finds dead bodies and a wedding dress on a hanger. Right before a fade to black, the viewer is shown a glimpse of the “Sickhusband.” After the fade the viewer is shown Taylor humming happily as she drifts further into the basement. Suddenly a hand appears on her shoulder, to which she says, “I’m home” into the camera.\n\nUltimately, the fates of Sean, Lukas, Andrea, and the two fans are left unclear to the audience.\n\n\n\"Vulture\" reviewed the finished version of the movie, writing that \"While \"Sickhouse\" is certainly not \"Blair Witch\", it does suggest that the next horror film that will grab hold of the national consciousness could take some version of this form. The dynamic of watching and being watched is fear in its simplest form, and social media is that dynamic played out on a grand scale every second of every day.\"\n"}
{"id": "35930031", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35930031", "title": "Somali Sign Language", "text": "Somali Sign Language\n\nSomali Sign Language (SSL) is a sign language used by the deaf community in Somalia (more specifically Somaliland) and Djibouti. It is based on Kenyan Sign Language.\n\nIn the 1980s a school for the deaf was established in the Somali Kenyan town of Wajir by Annalena Tonelli. Students there became fluent in Kenyan Sign Language. In 1997, three graduates from Wajir helped establish the first school for the deaf in Somalia called the Annalena School for the Deaf named after the late Annalena Tonelli, in Borama. One of the teachers at Boroma soon founded a school in Djibouti, and, with a bit more difficulty, another was established in Hargeisa.\n\n"}
{"id": "13405023", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13405023", "title": "Strip parish", "text": "Strip parish\n\nA strip parish is a parish with a narrow elongated shape, typically formed during the Anglo-Saxon and early medieval period. The shape is influenced by landscape, political and economic factors. Evidence of such parishes can be found throughout England although they appear to have been more common in a number of southern counties particularly but not exclusively associated with locations encompassing both lowland and upland landscapes or alternatively coastal communities.\n\nA number of common factors influenced the creation of strip parishes: the establishment of the parish unit; the topography of the landscape and the scarcity of valuable resources.\n\nThe fragmentation of hundreds in England during the 8th and 9th centuries, due to the split up of larger estates and the transfer of land, progressively resulted in the emergence of smaller manorial estates. One of the most important contributions to this process was the endowment of lands associated with the establishment of churches and their accompanying estate, the patronage of the lower levels of nobility and the legal inheritance of land within families. Accelerated by the arrival of Norman rule all these factors paved the way for simultaneous creation of the patchwork of parish units and formalisation of their administrative boundaries alongside the re-assembling of manorial lands.\n\nIn locations such as the Chilterns, South Downs and coastal areas of Devon and Cornwall where there was a limit of important resources, a further development of the parish system can be observed. For example, in Buckinghamshire and Oxfordshire settlements established in the lowland areas of the Vale of Aylesbury and Thames Valley respectively, along the base of the Chiltern Hills, extended their territories by accumulating territory on the largely uninhabited hillside, scarp and hilltop areas to exploit scarce resources such as woodland and upland summer pasture also known as transhumance. The result of this land reorganisation produced estates and parishes, which were narrow elongated strips exhibiting a range of land types ensuring the widest possible availability of resources.\n\nSubsequent expansion of the temporary summer settlements led to the establishment of permanent communities, including the formation of autonomous manors or hamlets with their own, initially modest chapels-of-ease, which later became fully-fledged churches. Where topography was not favourable to the expansion uphill to create a parish comprising one continuous strip, a detached area of upland territory was acquired. For example, Marsworth and its detached manor of Hawridge. Normally, such detached land was within the same hundred and County but occasionally, as in Tring, Hertfordshire and its detached upland hamlet Coleshill several miles away and in Buckinghamshire such detached communities can span across county boundaries.\n\nAs early as the latter period of the Middle Ages and as late as the 20th century some of these ‘daughter’ communities became permanently detached from their longer established parent village many miles away. In some cases the split resulted eventually in the creation of two and occasionally several separate hamlets.\n\nThe consequence of the splitting off of the upland communities was often the relocation of the lowland community to a new village location. In other cases the upland communities have become parishes in their own right or have amalgamated with other hilltop villages to also create a distinct parish.\n\nA detailed account of the development of strip parishes in the Chilterns can be found in \"The Chilterns\" by Leslie Hepple and Alison Doggett.\n"}
{"id": "33110662", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33110662", "title": "Suguna Vilasa Sabha", "text": "Suguna Vilasa Sabha\n\nSuguna Vilasa Sabha is a club based in the city of Chennai, India.The Suguna Vilasa Sabha club is also called as SVS club.The Suguna Vilasa Sabha club was founded by a band of public spirited men headed by Late Sambanda Mudaliar for promotion of histrionic talent in the year 1891.It is one of the oldest and foremost theatre companies in the city.\n\nThe Suguna Vilasa Sabha was established in Madras as a theatre company in the year 1891 in a house in Georgetown. In 1902, the Sabha moved to the Victoria Public Hall from where it functioned from 1902 to 1936, when it moved to Mount Road. In 1945, the Sabha built its own theatre, the New Theatre. As stage dramas began to decline after the Second World War, the Sabha transformed into a social club.\n\nIn the beginning the sabha was housed in Vijayanagaram Maharajas’s High School in George Town, free of rent. In 1896 it rented a premise in Thambu Chetty Street. In 1902 the Sabha moved to Victoria Public Hall. It was there the Sabha expanded its activities and provided additional recreational amenities like Tennis, Billiards, Table Tennis and other games besides staging many Dramas.The need for acquiring a Building of its own was felt and the present site was purchased.\n\nUnder the past president , Dr. M.A.M. Ramaswamy , and the current President CA V. Murali, the Sabha has been expanding steadily as one of the oldest & Premier Clubs in the city.\n\nThe Tamil playwright, Pammal Sambandha Mudaliar was associated with the Suguna Vilasa Sabha in the early 1900s. Popular dancer E. Krishna Iyer was also associated with the Sabha.\n\nCatering facilities,Open air theater,Party Facility,The i bar,Indoor and Outdoor Games,Swimming Pool,Health Club & Gym,Cards room,Library,Guest house and Billiards.\n\n\nSVS ClubNo. 57, Anna Salai,Chennai - 600 002.\n"}
{"id": "49113958", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49113958", "title": "Survival Island 3", "text": "Survival Island 3\n\nSurvival Island 3: Australia Story was an iOS and Android game created by Kristina Fedenkova of NIL Entertainment, notorious for its blatant violence and racism against Australian Aboriginals. The game was released onto the App Store and Google Play in December 2015. The game is a 3D first-person survival-action game in which the player is able to ally with or fight against Indigenous Australian people as well as a variety of Australian fauna while trying to survive. It attracted strong criticism in Australia for its racist presentation of Indigenous Australians, which were presented as \"real Aboriginals\" and a threat to the fair-skinned player's survival. The game was also criticised for encouraging the player to perpetrate violence against Indigenous Australians. Apple rated the game PG for ages 12 and up.\n\nA Change.org petition was created by Georgia Mantle calling for the game to be removed from Google and Apple marketplaces. She wrote: \"By shooting ‘dangerous Aboriginals’, this app makes us inhuman, it re-enforces racial violence, lack of punishment for white people taking black lives, it makes fun and sport of massacres and Frontier violence.\" The petition gathered over 20,000 signatures in less than 24 hours and as of 16 January 2016, it had received over 60,000 signatures. The petition was also seeking an apology from the game's developer.\n\nOn 16 January 2016, the game was removed from the Apple App Store, which was followed by its removal from Google Play later that day. Videos of gameplay captured and published to YouTube were also removed. On 17 January the petition was closed after receiving a total of 84,672 supporters and achieving two of its objectives. Australia's Federal communications minister Mitch Fifield asked his staff to \"provide advice on the circumstances of its release\". He said of the game: \"I am appalled that anyone would develop such a so called 'game' and that any platform would carry it.\" Others criticized the decision.\n"}
{"id": "3515697", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3515697", "title": "Tacanan languages", "text": "Tacanan languages\n\nTacanan is a family of languages spoken in Bolivia, with Ese’ejja also spoken in Peru. It may be related to the Panoan languages. Many of the languages are endangered.\n\n\nToromono is apparently extinct. Another possibly extinct Tacanan language is Mabenaro; Arasa has been classified as Tacanan, but appears to have more in common with Panoan.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33373725", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33373725", "title": "Tapirapé language", "text": "Tapirapé language\n\nTapirapé is a Tupi–Guarani language of Brazil.\n"}
{"id": "40756361", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40756361", "title": "Terrorism in Mexico", "text": "Terrorism in Mexico\n\nTerrorism in Mexico, is the phenomenon of terrorist attacks, since the decade of the 1960s (by communist guerrillas), until the incidents drug war related, and other political movements.\n\nDuring the late 60´s until the 90´s decade. Several guerrilla movements were present in the country, the most algid moments that were the assault of the Madera Cuartel and Tlatelolco Massacre, starting point for several guerrilla movements, specially in the state of Guerrero and Ciudad de Mexico.Several of these groups like Partido de los Pobres, People's Guerrilla Group, or Liga Comunista 23 de Septiembre.These groups were dismantled under dubious conditions related to the use of force, spreading versions of extrajudicial executions or forced disappearances.\n\nUnited States politician Sue Myrick has claimed that the mounting evidence of Hezbollah presence in Mexico is ignored by the Department of Homeland Security, further adding that \"I don't have a lot of faith in the Department of Homeland Security,\" and \"They should be looking at these groups in Mexico much more closely.\"\n\nTraces of these groups situating in Mexico, became more sensible by 2010, when the Tucson Police Department reported International Terrorism Situational Awareness for Hezbollah in Mexico, adding the arrest of Jameel Nasar in Tijuana, July 2010. Nasar had tried to form a Hezbollah network in Mexico, and South America.A US congress report from the House Homeland Security Committee Subcommittee on Oversight, Investigations and Management ties Middle East terror organizations with the Mexican drug cartels. The report reads that;-\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12162730", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12162730", "title": "Wiki journalism", "text": "Wiki journalism\n\nWiki journalism is a form of participatory journalism or crowdsourcing, which uses wiki technology to facilitate collaboration between users. It is a kind of collaborative journalism. The largest example of wiki journalism is Wikinews. According to Paul Bradshaw, there are five broad types of wiki journalism: second draft wiki journalism, a 'second stage' piece of journalism, during which readers can edit an article produced in-house; crowdsourcing wiki journalism, a means of covering material which could not have been produced in-house (probably for logistical reasons), but which becomes possible through wiki technology; supplementary wiki journalism, creating a supplement to a piece of original journalism, e.g. a tab to a story that says \"Create a wiki for related stories\"; open wiki journalism, in which a wiki is created as an open space, whose subject matter is decided by the user, and where material may be produced that would not otherwise have been commissioned; and logistical wiki journalism, involving a wiki limited to in-house contributors which enables multiple authorship, and may also facilitate transparency, and/or an\nongoing nature.\n\nWikinews was launched in 2004 as an attempt to build an entire news operation on wiki technology. Where Wikinews – and indeed Wikipedia – has been most successful, however, is in covering large news events involving large numbers of people, such as Hurricane Katrina and the Virginia Tech Shootings, where first hand experience, or the availability of first hand accounts, forms a larger part of the entry, and where the wealth of reportage makes a central 'clearing house' valuable. Thelwall & Stuart identify Wikinews and Wikipedia as becoming particularly important during crises such as Hurricane Katrina, which \"precipitate discussions or mentions of new technology in blogspace.\"\n\nMike Yamamoto notes that \"In times of emergency, wikis are quickly being recognized as important gathering spots not only for news accounts but also for the exchange of resources, safety bulletins, missing-person reports and other vital information, as well as a meeting place for virtual support groups.\" He sees the need for community as the driving force behind this.\n\nIn June 2005 the \"Los Angeles Times\" decided to experiment with a 'wikitorial' on the Iraq War, publishing their own editorial online but inviting readers to \"rewrite\" it using wiki technology. The experiment received broad coverage both before and after launch in both the mainstream media and the blogosphere. In editorial terms the experiment was generally recognised as a failure.\n\nIn September 2005 \"Esquire\" used Wikipedia itself to 'wiki' an article about Wikipedia by AJ Jacobs. The draft called on users to help Jacobs improve the article, with the intention of printing a 'before' and 'after' version of the piece in the printed magazine. He included some intentional mistakes to make the experiment \"a little more interesting\". The article received 224 edits in the first 24 hours, rising to 373 by 48 hours, and over 500 before the article was 'frozen' in order to be printed.\n\nIn 2006 \"Wired\" also experimented with an article about wikis. When writer Ryan Singel submitted the 1,000 word draft to his editor, \"instead of paring the story down to a readable 800 words, we posted it as-is to a SocialText-hosted wiki on August 29, and announced it was open to editing by anyone willing to register.\" When the experiment closed, Singel noted that \"there were 348 edits of the main story, 21 suggested headlines and 39 edits of the discussion pages. Thirty hyperlinks were added to the 20 in the original story.\" He continued that \"one user didn't like the quotes I used from Ward Cunningham, the father of wiki software, so I instead posted a large portion of my notes from my interview on the site, so the community could choose a better one.\" Singel felt that the final story was \"more accurate and more representative of how wikis are used\" but not a better story than would have otherwise been produced:\n\"The edits over the week lack some of the narrative flow that a Wired News piece usually contains. The transitions seem a bit choppy, there are too many mentions of companies, and too much dry explication of how wikis work.\n\n\"It feels more like a primer than a story to me.\"\nHowever, continued Singel, that didn't make the experiment a failure, and he felt the story \"clearly tapped into a community that wants to make news stories better ... Hopefully, we'll continue to experiment to find ways to involve that community more.\"\n\nIn April 2010, the Wahoo Newspaper partnered with WikiCity Guides to extend its audience and local reach. \"With this partnership, the Wahoo Newspaper provides a useful tool to connect with our readers, and for our readers to connect with one another to promote and spotlight everything Wahoo has to offer,\" said Wahoo Newspaper Publisher Shon Barenklau. Despite relatively little traffic as compared to its large scale, WikiCity Guides is recognized as the with over 13 million active pages.\n\nAndrew Lih places wikis within the larger category of participatory journalism, which also includes blogs, citizen journalism models such as OhMyNews and peer-to-peer publishing models such as Slashdot, and which, he argues \"uniquely addresses an historic 'knowledge gap' – the general lack of content sources for the period between when the news is published and the history books are written.\"\n\nParticipatory journalism, he argues, \"has recast online journalism not as simply reporting or publishing, but as a lifecycle, where software is crafted, users are empowered, journalistic content is created and the process repeats improves upon itself.\"\n\nFrancisco identifies wikis as a 'next step' in participatory journalism: \"Blogs helped individuals publish and express themselves. Social networks allowed those disparate bloggers to be found and connected. Wikis are the platforms to help those who found one another be able to collaborate and build together.\"\n\nA Wiki can serve as the collective truth of the event, portraying the hundreds of viewpoints and without taxing any one journalist with uncovering whatever represents the objective truth in the circumstance.\n\nWikis allow news operations to effectively cover issues on which there is a range of opinion so broad that it would be difficult, if not impossible, to summarise effectively in one article alone. Examples might include local transport problems, experiences of a large event such as a music festival or protest march, guides to local restaurants or shops, or advice. The Wikivoyage site is one such example, \"A worldwide travel guide written entirely by contributors who either live in the place they're covering or have spent enough time there to post relevant information.\"\n\nOrganisations willing to open up wikis to their audience completely may also find a way of identifying their communities' concerns: Wikipedia, for instance, notes Eva Dominguez \"reflects which knowledge is most shared, given that both the content and the proposals for entries are made by the users themselves.\"\n\nInternally, wikis also allow news operations to coordinate and manage a complex story which involves a number of reporters: journalists are able to collaborate by editing a single webpage that all have access to. News organisations interested in transparency might also publish the wiki 'live' as it develops, while the discussion space which accompanies each entry also has the potential to create a productive dialogue with users.\n\nThere are also clear economic and competitive advantages to allowing users to create articles. With the growth of low-cost micropublishing facilitated by the internet and blogging software in particular, and the convergence-fuelled entry into the online news market by both broadcasters and publishers, news organisations face increased competition from all sides. At the same time, print and broadcast advertising revenue is falling while competition for online advertising revenue is fierce and concentrated on a few major players: in the USA, for instance, according to Jeffrey Rayport 99 percent of gross advertising money 2006 went to the top 10 websites.\n\nWikis offer a way for news websites to increase their reach, while also increasing the time that users spend on their website, a key factor in attracting advertisers. And, according to Dan Gillmor, \"When [a wiki] works right, it engenders a community – and a community that has the right tools can take care of itself\". A useful side-effect of community for a news organisation is reader loyalty.\n\nAndrew Lih notes the importance of the \"spirit of the open source movement\" (2004b p6) in its development, and the way that wikis function primarily as \"social software – acting to foster communication and collaboration with other users.\" Specifically, Lih attributes the success of the wiki model to four basic features: user friendly formatting; structure by convention, not enforced by software; \"soft\" security and ubiquitous access; and wikis transparency and edit history feature.\n\nStudent-run wikis provide opportunities to integrate learning by doing into a journalism education program.\n\nShane Richmond identifies two obstacles that could slow down the adoption of news wikis – inaccuracy and vandalism:\n\n\nWriting in 2004 Lih also identified authority as an issue for Wikipedia: \"While Wikipedia has recorded impressive accomplishments in three years, its articles have a mixed degree of quality because they are, by design, always in flux, and always editable. That reason alone makes people wary of its content.\"\n\nSecurity is a common problem in wiki technology. Wikipedia's own entry on wikis notes: \"Wikis, because of their open nature, are susceptible to intentional disruption, known as 'trolling'. Wikis tend to take a soft-security approach to the problem of vandalism, making damage easy to undo rather than attempting to prevent damage.\"\n\nDan Gillmor puts it another way: \"When vandals learn than someone will repair their damage within minutes, and therefore prevent the damage from being visible to the world, the bad guys tend to give up and move along to more vulnerable places.\" (2004, p.149)\n\nAttempts to address the security issue vary. Wikipedia's own entry on wikis again explains:\n\"For instance, some wikis allow unregistered users known as \"IP addresses\" to edit content, whilst others limit this function to just registered users. What most wikis do is allow IP editing, but privilege registered users with some extra functions to lend them a hand in editing; on most wikis, becoming a registered user is very simple and can be done in seconds, but detains the user from using the new editing functions until either some time passes, as in the English Wikipedia, where registered users must wait for three days after creating an account in order to gain access to the new tool, or until several constructive edits have been made in order to prove the user's trustworthiness and usefulness on the system, as in the Portuguese Wikipedia, where users require at least 15 constructive edits before authorization to use the added tools. Basically, \"closed up\" wikis are more secure and reliable but grow slowly, whilst more open wikis grow at a steady rate but result in being an easy target for vandalism.\"\nWalsh (2007) quotes online media consultant Nico Macdonald on the importance of asking people to identify themselves:\n\"The key is the user's identity within the space – a picture of a person next to their post, their full name, a short bio and a link to their space online.\"\n\n\"A real community has, as New Labour would say, rights and responsibilities. You have to be accountable for yourself. Online, you only have the 'right' to express yourself. Online communities are not communities in a real sense – they're slightly delinquent. They allow or encourage delinquency.\"\nWalsh (2007) argues that \"Even if you don't plan on moderating a community, it's a good idea to have an editorial presence, to pop in and respond to users' questions and complaints. Apart from giving users the sense that they matter – and they really should – it also means that if you do have to take drastic measures and curtail (or even remove) a discussion or thread, it won't seem quite so much like the egregious action of some deus ex machina.\"\n\nRyan Singel of \"Wired\" also feels there is a need for an editorial presence, but for narrative reasons: \"in storytelling, there's still a place for a mediator who knows when to subsume a detail for the sake of the story, and is accustomed to balancing the competing claims and interests of companies and people represented in a story.\"\n\n'Edit wars' are another problem in wikis, where contributors continually overwrite each other's contributions due to a difference of opinion. The worst cases, notes Lih, \"may require intervention by other community members to help mediate and arbitrate\".\n\nEva Dominguez recognises the potential of wikis, but also the legal responsibilities that publishers must answer to: \"The greater potential of the Internet to carry out better journalism stems from this collaboration, in which the users share and correct data, sources and facts that the journalist may not have easy access to or knowledge of. But the media, which have the ultimate responsibility for what is published, must always be able to verify everything. For example, in the case of third-party quotes included by collaborating users, the journalist must also check that they are true.\"\n\nOne of the biggest disadvantages may be readers' lack of awareness of what a wiki even is: only 2% of Internet users even know what a wiki is, according to a Harris Interactive poll (Francisco, 2006).\n\nAmerican columnist Bambi Francisco argues that it is only a matter of time before more professional publishers and producers begin to experiment with using \"wiki-styled ways of creating content\" in the same way as they have picked up on blogs.\n\nThe Telegraph's Web News Editor, Shane Richmond, wrote: \"Unusually, it may be business people who bring wikis into the mainstream. That will prepare the ground for media experiments with wikis [and] I think it's a safe bet that a British media company will try a wiki before the end of the year.\"\n\nRichmond added that \"The Telegraph\" was planning an internal wiki as a precursor to public experiments with the technology. \"Once we have a feel for the technology, we will look into a public wiki, perhaps towards the end of the year.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39661578", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39661578", "title": "Women in New Zealand", "text": "Women in New Zealand\n\nWomen in New Zealand are women who live in or are from New Zealand. The first female settlers in New Zealand were Māori. The first known European woman to settle in New Zealand was Charlotte Badger. Today, women in New Zealand, also called Kiwi women, are descended from European, Asian and Pacific Islander stock. \n\n\nIn 1877 Kate Edger was the first woman to earn a university degree in New Zealand as well as the first women in the British empire to earn a Bachelor of arts degree. Helen Connon was Canterbury college's first female student to graduate with a Bachelor of arts degree in 1880. In 1881 she went on to be the first woman in the British Empire to graduate with an Honors Degree.Early university graduates were Emily Siedeberg (doctor, graduated 1895) and Ethel Benjamin (lawyer, graduated 1897). The Female Law Practitioners Act was passed in 1896 and Benjamin was admitted as a barrister and solicitor of the Supreme Court of New Zealand in 1897.\n\nDuring the early-mid nineteenth century there were significant differences between the worlds of Maori and European women. While married European women were considered to be subsumed under their husbands' legal status and could not own land, high ranking Maori women could and did own and inherit land. Many Maori women held positions of social influence and were signatories to the Treaty of Waitangi.\n\nThe founders of European settlement in New Zealand such as Edward Gibbon Wakefield encouraged settlement by families instead of single men because women were believed to have a \"civilising\" influence however the restricted position of women under English laws and customs increasingly constrained the actions of Maori and European women alike.\n\nIn 1893, New Zealand became the first self-governing country in the world to allow women to vote. This included both European and Maori women. However, it was not until 1919 that women were allowed to run for Parliament, and Elizabeth McCombs became the first women elected to the Parliament in 1933. The 1940’s were an important time for the progress of women in New Zealand. The absence of service men resulting from the demands of war lead to the first women police officers completing their training in 1941.On October 26th, 1942 the Women Jurors Act was passed which for the first time allowed women between the ages of 25 and 60 to have their names placed on the jury list on the same basis as men. Elaine Kingsford was New Zealand’s first female juror and she sat on a case at the Auckland Supreme Court in 1943. Mary Anderson became the first woman to sit on a Magistrate’s Court Bench in 1943 and then in 1946 she and Mary Dreaver, a former Member of the House of Representatives, became the first women to be appointed to the Legislative Council.\n\nIn 1949, Iriaka Ratana became the first Maori woman to win a seat in Parliament.\n\nIn 1997 Jenny Shipley became the first woman Prime Minister of New Zealand. Prior to becoming Prime Minister, Shipley held several portfolios including Women's affairs, but was best known for Social welfare and Health, where she oversaw radical and sometimes controversial reforms driven by Ruth Richardson's policies. After leaving Parliament, Shipley became a company director in Auckland, she also became Dame Jenny Shipley in 2009. Whilst Shipley was only Prime Minister for only two years, she held some strong and influential views on what constituted leadership. For Shipley, leadership meant that when things happen, you pick yourself up and make the best of the situation \n\nIn 1999, Helen Clark became the second woman (and first elected woman) Prime Minister of New Zealand. Clark served three terms in office and was Prime Minister until 2008. In 2017, the Richtopia list named Clark as the third most influential woman in the world. When Clark resigned as Labour Party leader in 2008, she joined the UN, and in 2017 ran for the position of secretary general, though was unsuccessful. Clark says herself that while she did not find there was a glass celling in New Zealand to break, she met one in the UN where countries were just not used to women leaders, like New Zealand was.\n\nIn 2017, Jacinda Ardern became New Zealand's third female Prime Minister. \n\nAs of June 2016, women make up 31.4% of the unicameral New Zealand Parliament. There are 121 members, 38 of whom are women.\n\nThe gender pay gap in New Zealand is 9.4%. New Zealand now has a set of legislation to stop discrimination against women and protect human rights. Advancements like the Equal Pay Act of 1972 that requires employers to pay men and women the same wages for the same work and the Human Rights Commission Act of 1977. There has since been other major milestones such as the establishment of the Ministry of Women’s Affairs in 1985; the introduction of parental leave in 1987; and the introduction of paid parental leave in 2002.\n\nNew Zealand's government is making efforts towards improving its overall economic status and prosperity through increasing Women's involvement and leadership in society.\n\nIn 2004, a five-year plan known as \"The Action Plan for New Zealand Women\" was launched in an attempt to progress work-life balance, economic stability, and well-being for women. In response to this proposed plan, 52 meetings along with stakeholder meetings took place in an effort to deliberate and advocate the new priorities for women.\n\nAs of 2006, about 332,600 women (16.2%) were considered to have a disability with only about 50% of those women having an involvement in the labor force as opposed to men with about 70% involved. Women with disabilities in New Zealand lack access to programs to help learn the ways to utilize their disabilities, potentially explaining the large number of women who are not in the labor force.\n\nHowever, in February 2009, a Ministerial Committee on Disability Issues was created by the government to target issues such as: modern disability support, making New Zealand accessible for the disabled, and getting more citizens to contribute to the effort. These efforts make up the vision outlined in the New Zealand Disability Strategy.\n\nFor additional information of disability rights in New Zealand click here: Disability rights in New Zealand\n\nWhen the pressure of the Second World War began to take a toll on the workforce, New Zealand’s National Council of Women started pushing for the approval of female officers. In 1941 this idea became reality when 10 women from numerous parts of New Zealand were recruited. There were numerous requirements the trainees were required to meet, like being between 25 and 40 years of age, well educated, single, and a few others. The first 10 women to be recruited trained at the Police Training school in Wellington for three months. The women completed their training in October, then sent to work as temporary constables in various detective branches. They dealt mainly with cases involving women and delinquent children. Despite having full authority to arrest lawbreakers, the women were not uniformed until 1952.\n\nDespite New Zealand being a country that consists of many different integrated cultures and referred to as one of the most tolerant countries in the world, the Māori and Pasifika continually face racial discrimination. The main outlets of this racial discrimination typically tend to be work, education, and justice. The Māori and Pasifika people usually lack a solid educational foundation which ultimately increases their tendency to use drugs, alcohol, and inflates their unemployment and poverty rates. Māori struggle to find employment among a society in which they stand as outcasts with their lack of education. The State often argues that the cause of the inability for migrant populations to acquire jobs stands in the fact that many lack the necessary experience and ability to speak fluent English. Despite the Māori people usually not fulfilling the standards to be employed, the government is making efforts to advocate on behalf of the Māori and the advantages of having a diverse workforce in New Zealand.\n\nMāori women had a voice in their tribe and were able to inherit land. Women who belong to chiefly families were viewed as sacred and often performed special ceremonies like the karanga. Early European settlers generally thought that the Māori women did not have power and only negotiated with men. When the Europeans settled in the mid to late 19th century they brought with them their ideas about gender differences and inequalities that influenced laws, property rights, education and employment. Although the Māori people are largely discriminated against as a whole, the women are the most heavily impacted by the gendered aspects of racial discrimination. Māori women are greatly impacted by their lack of access to employment and health and fear the violence that is inflicted upon many Māori women. However the Committee on the Elimination of Discrimination Against Women (CEDAW) shows deep concerns regarding the violence towards Māori women and is hoping to increase the prosecution rates of those who attack women.\n\nNew Zealand is recognized as being one of the most liberal countries in the world regarding sex and prostitution laws. In June 2003, the Prostitution Reform Act was passed which decriminalized prostitution. Prior to the Prostitution Reform Act, prostitution was still prevalent in New Zealand societies but more widespread and underground. Sex workers serve to benefit from this law as it provides them with a certain level of protection from the police force and allows for them to have specified rights. Brothels and areas of sex exchanges can be found all throughout New Zealand in modern-day society with Auckland offering the most services in the country.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30357894", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30357894", "title": "Yahya bin Muhammad as-Siraji", "text": "Yahya bin Muhammad as-Siraji\n\nYahya bin Muhammad as-Siraji (died 1296) was an imam of the Zaidi state in Yemen who held the imamate in 1261-1262.\n\nAt this time, most of Yemen was under the control of the Rasulid Dynasty which was Sunni Muslim and based in the lowland. In the northern parts of the highland, members of the Zaidi elite tried to maintain a position. One of them was Yahya bin Muhammad as-Siraji, a 16th-generation descendant of the Twelver imam Hasan bin Ali (d. 669). Yahya performed the da'wa (summoning for the imamate) in 1261. The majority of the population in Hadur and surrounding districts acknowledged him. However, the Rasulids were on the alert and sent the redoubtable emir Alam ad-Din Sinjar al-Sha'bi with a force, \"springing upon him like a cat.\" The Zaidis were unable to withstand the incursion and Yahya's followers scattered to distant places. Alam ad-Din then returned to San'a. Imam Yahya traveled to the land of Banu Fahim; however, the locals took him in custody and turned him over to Alam ad-Din. The emir blinded him in October 1262. His reign as imam is sometimes counted until 1271, though there seem to be no records of his activities in the intervening years. His death is recorded in 1296.\n\n"}
