{"id": "1422207", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1422207", "title": "15 minutes of fame", "text": "15 minutes of fame\n\n15 minutes of fame is short-lived media publicity or celebrity of an individual or phenomenon. The expression was inspired by Andy Warhol's words \"In the future, everyone will be world-famous for 15 minutes\", which appeared in the program for a 1968 exhibition of his work at the Moderna Museet in Stockholm, Sweden. Photographer Nat Finkelstein claims credit for the expression, stating that he was photographing Warhol in 1966 for a proposed book. A crowd gathered trying to get into the pictures and Warhol supposedly remarked that everyone wants to be famous, to which Finkelstein replied, \"Yeah, for about fifteen minutes, Andy.\"\nThe phenomenon is often used in reference to figures in the entertainment industry or other areas of popular culture, such as reality television and YouTube.\n\nAn older version of the same concept in English is the expression \"nine days' wonder\", which dates at least as far back as the Elizabethan era.\n\nGerman art historian Benjamin H. D. Buchloh suggests that the core tenet of Warhol's aesthetic, being \"the systematic invalidation of the hierarchies of representational functions and techniques\" of art, corresponds directly to the belief that the \"hierarchy of subjects worthy to be represented will someday be abolished;\" hence, anybody, and therefore \"everybody,\" can be famous once that hierarchy dissipates, \"in the future,\" and by logical extension of that, \"in the future, everybody will be famous,\" and not merely those individuals worthy of fame.\n\nOn the other hand, wide proliferation of the adapted idiom \"my fifteen minutes\" and its entrance into common parlance have led to a slightly different application, having to do with both the ephemerality of fame in the information age and, more recently, the democratization of media outlets brought about by the advent of the internet. In this formulation, Warhol's quote has been taken to mean: \"At the present, because there are so many channels by which an individual might attain fame, albeit not enduring fame, virtually anyone can become famous for a brief period of time.\"\n\nThere is a third and even more remote interpretation of the term, as used by an individual who has been legitimately famous or skirted celebrity for a brief period of time, that period of time being his or her \"fifteen minutes.\"\n\nJohn Langer suggests that 15 minutes of fame is an enduring concept because it permits everyday activities to become \"great effects.\" Tabloid journalism and the paparazzi have accelerated this trend, turning what may have before been isolated coverage into continuing media coverage even after the initial reason for media interest has passed.\n\nOn their 1987 album Yoyo Bourgeois Tagg have a song called 15 Minutes In The Sun that is a direct reference to the Warhol statement. \n\nIn the song \"I Can't Read\", released by David Bowie's Tin Machine in their 1989 debut album and re-released by Bowie in 1997 for the soundtrack of the movie \"The Ice Storm\", the phrase is used in direct reference to Andy Warhol: \"Andy, where's my 15 minutes?\" \nThe age of reality television has seen the comment wryly updated as: \"In the future, everyone will be obscure for 15 minutes.\" The British artist Banksy has made a sculpture of a TV that has, written on its screen, \"In the future, everyone will be anonymous for 15 minutes,\" which was later used in the lyrics of Robbie Williams' song \"The Actor\" from his 2006 album \"Rudebox\".\n\nA more recent adaptation of Warhol's quip, possibly prompted by the rise of online social networking, blogging, and internet celebrity, is the claim that \"In the future, everyone will be famous to fifteen people\" or, in some renditions, \"On the Web, everyone will be famous to fifteen people\". This quote, though attributed to David Weinberger, was said to have originated with the Scottish artist Momus.\n\nThe Marilyn Manson song \"I Don't Like the Drugs (But the Drugs Like Me)\", released on his 1998 album \"Mechanical Animals\", alludes to the term in the line \"We're rehabbed and we're ready for our fifteen minutes of shame\", as part of the song's theme of unrepentant escapism through drugs.\n\nIn 1993, the British techno/industrial music group Sheep on Drugs released a single \"15 Minutes of Fame\" which reached the lower reaches of the UK Singles Chart.\n\nThe 2005 heavy metal single, \"Determined\" from the band Mudvayne's third studio album, \"Lost and Found\" had a brief mention of \"fifteen minutes of fame\" in the lyrics.\n\nThe group Queensrÿche uses the words \"I guess Warhol wasn't wrong / Fame fifteen Minutes Long\" in their 1988 anti-hero telltale album \"\" song as a way of showing the deterioration of society to reach its aim.\n\nAfter experiencing a boom of recognition in the late 90s, the rock group Sugar Ray made an album entitled \"\", jesting that their 15 minutes of fame was almost over.\nIn 2018, the band Shinedown came out with the song \"special\" which mentions not waiting on 15 minutes of fame. It is on their album Attention Attention.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31958117", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31958117", "title": "Adamkhel", "text": "Adamkhel\n\nAdamkhel () is one of the 8 sub-tribes of the Afridi that originated in the Pashtun region of modern-day Afghanistan and Pakistan. It is divided further into 2 main sections:- \nKalakhel and Jawaki of Tirah are the 2 sub-sections of Tirah Adamkhel. Tribesmen of Kalakhel and Jawaki still have a presence in the Tirah Valley.\nDarra Adam Khel Tribesmen migrated long back to their present location FR Peshawar and FR Kohat and have no presence in the Tirah valley.\n"}
{"id": "3285486", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3285486", "title": "Australian Canadians", "text": "Australian Canadians\n\nAustralian Canadians are Canadian citizens of Australian descent or Australian-born people who reside in Canada. According to the 2011 Census there were 36,350 Canadians who claimed full or partial Australian ancestry.\n\nBoth are among the most developed countries and share historical connections, language, similar customs and among others, they also have Elizabeth II as their Head of State as both are also Commonwealth realms.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10909992", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10909992", "title": "Aztec cuisine", "text": "Aztec cuisine\n\nAztec cuisine was the cuisine of the Aztec Empire and the Nahua peoples of the Valley of Mexico prior to European contact in 1519.\n\nThe most important staple was corn (maize), a crop that was so important to Aztec society that it played a central part in their mythology. Just like wheat in much of Europe or rice in most of East Asia, it was the food without which a meal was not a meal. It came in varieties that differed in color, texture, size and prestige, and was eaten as corn tortillas, tamales or \"ātōlli\", maize gruel. The other constants of Aztec food were salt and chili peppers and the basic definition of Aztec fasting was to abstain from these two flavors.\n\nThe other major foods were beans and New World varieties of the grains amaranth (or pigweed), and chia. The combination of maize and these basic foods would have provided the average Aztec a very well-rounded diet without any significant deficiencies in vitamins or minerals. The cooking of maize grains in alkaline solutions, a process called nixtamalization, significantly raised the nutritional value of the common staple.\n\nWater, maize gruels and pulque, the fermented juice of the century plant (maguey in Spanish), were the most common drinks, and there were many different fermented alcoholic beverages made from honey, cacti and various fruits. The elite took pride in not drinking pulque, a drink of commoners, and preferred drinks made from cacao, among the most prestigious luxuries available. Favored by rulers, warriors and nobles, they were flavored with chili peppers, honey and a seemingly endless list of spices and herbs.\n\nThe Aztec diet included a variety of fish and wild game: various fowl, pocket gophers, green iguanas, axolotls (a type of water salamander), a type of crayfish called an acocil, and a great variety of insects, larvae and insect eggs. They also domesticated turkeys, duck and dogs as food and at times ate meat from larger wild animals such as deer, but none of these were a major part of their diet. They ate various mushrooms and fungi, including the parasitic corn smut, which grows on ears of corn. Squash was very popular and came in many different varieties. Squash seeds, fresh, dried or roasted, were especially popular. Tomatoes, though different from the varieties common today, were often mixed with chili in sauces or as filling for tamales.\n\nEating in Aztec culture could take on a sacred meaning, especially as evidenced in ritual cannibalism. The act of eating another human was deeply connected to the Aztec mythology, in which gods needed to consume the sacrificed flesh and blood of humans to sustain themselves, and the world. One way to look at this is that since human flesh was a food of the gods, it was sacred, and consuming sacred food could sanctify an individual and bring him or her closer to the gods. Further, certain warriors, in their afterlife, were believed to have been turned into butterflies and hummingbirds with the ability to fly back to the realm of the living to feed on nectar. From this, the importance the Aztecs ascribed to the act of eating is clear.\n\nMost sources describe two meals per day, though there is an account of laborers getting three meals, one at dawn, another one at around 9 in the morning and one at around 3 in the afternoon. This is similar to the custom in contemporary Europe, but it is unclear if intake of \"ātōlli\", maize gruel, was considered a meal or not. Drinking a good amount of the thicker kinds of \"ātōlli\" could equal the calories in several corn tortillas, and \"ātōlli\" was consumed on a daily basis by most of the population.\n\nMany accounts exist of Aztec feasts and banquets and the ceremony that surrounded them. Before a meal, servants presented fragrant tobacco tubes and sometimes also flowers with which the guests could rub their head, hands and neck. Before the meal would start each guest would drop a little food on the ground as an offering to the god Tlaltecuhtli. As military prowess was highly praised among the Aztecs, table manners imitated the movement of warriors. The smoking tubes and flowers went from the left hand of the servant to the right hand of the guest and the plate accompanying the smoking tube went from the right hand to the left hand.\n\nThis was an imitation of how a warrior received his atlatl darts and shield. The flowers passed out bore different names depending on how they were handed out; \"sword flowers\" went from left hand to right and \"shield flowers\" went from right hand to left. When eating, guests would hold their individual bowls filled with dipping sauce in the center of the right hand and then dip corn tortillas or tamales (which were served from baskets) with the left. The meal was concluded by serving chocolate, often served in a calabash cup along with a stirring stick.\n\nMen and women were separated at banquets and, though it is not entirely clear from the sources, it seems as if only men drank chocolate. The women would more likely have drunk \"pozolli\" (maize gruel from finely ground maize) or some type of pulque. Rich hosts could often receive guests sitting in rooms around an open courtyard similar to Middle Eastern caravanserai (or \"han\" in Turkish) and senior military men would perform dances. Festivities would begin at midnight and some would drink chocolate and eat hallucinogenic mushrooms so that they could tell about their experiences and visions to the other guests.\n\nRight before dawn singing commenced and offerings were burned and buried in the courtyard to ensure the fortune of the children of the hosts. At dawn the remaining flowers, smoking tubes and food were given to the old and poor that had been invited, or to the servants. As with all other aspects of life the Aztecs stressed the dual nature of all things, and toward the end of the banquet the host would be sternly reminded by his elders of his own mortality and that he should not be overcome with pride.\n\nAztec private feasts included music singing, storytelling, dancing, incense burning, flowers, tobacco, offerings, and gift giving. Aztec feasts were a display of material culture and wealth, notes by Friar Bernardino de Sahagún and Friar Diego Durán describe Aztec feasts as events where \"everything was to be created in abundance.\" Feasts were organized to the point of ritual, there were roles and relationships displayed and reinforced. Hosts needed to meet the obligations of banqueting, in order not to \"offend\" their guests, and guests needed to reinforce the hosts stature. There are multiple important events in Aztec society that called for feasts. Child naming ceremonies involved the ritual calling out of the baby's name, and progressed into a large organized feast. This feast could consist of dressed bird or dog, meat and/or maize tamales, beans, cacao bean, and roasted chili's.\n\nIzcalli child presentation ceremonies were also important, part of the Aztec agricultural calendar - Izcalli was the last \"month\" of the calendar. Every fourth Izcalli celebration included the introduction of children, born during this four year period, to the Aztec community. This feast introduced the child to actions important to their religious life such as: singing, dancing, ceremonial drinking, sacrificial bloodletting, and body modification. The food served during this feast was traditionally spicy. Noted by Sahagun was: \"And the sauce of the tamales was called 'red chili sauce.' and when the good common folk ate, they sat about sweating, they sat about burning themselves. And the tamales stuffed with greens were indeed hot, gleaming hot.\" The wedding process also contained many ceremonies, the parents of a young male, when marriage was desired, had to ask permission of his calmecac school leaders. Part of this process was a feast of tamales, chocolate, and sauces. During the wedding itself there were feasts of pulque, tamales, and turkey meat. Funerary feasts were also common among the wealthy class. Served at these feasts was octli (pulque), chocolate, bird, fruit, seeds, and other foods.\n\nParts of the 260 day ritual calendar of the Aztecs were Veintena. Veintena can be approximated as \"months\" however they are more aptly described as 20 day public ceremony periods. Each 20 day Veintena was a full and complex festival made up of ceremonies dedicated to specific gods and deities of the current Veintena. Regional and local ceremonies differed in deities and methods, from the official state sponsored ones at Tenochtitlan. Food was an important part of Veintena ceremonies, it was both consumed and adorned by priests. It was noted that during the ceremonies honoring Xipe Totec the priests would adorn themselves in arrays of \"butterfly nets, fish banners, ear of maize, coyote heads made of amaranth seed, tortillas, thick rolls covered with a dough of amaranth seeds, toasted maize, red amaranth, and maize stalks with ears of green or tender maize.\" In the ceremonies honoring Mixcoatl, after a \"Great Hunt\" Aztec's would feast on deer, rabbit, and all other animals captured in the hunt. Hunting was also important to celebrations dedicated to Xiuhtecuhtli, Aztec boys and young men would hunt for ten days. The products of these hunts would then be turned over to priests, who cooked them in large fire flies\n\nThe main method of preparation was boiling or steaming in two-handled clay pots or jars called \"xoctli\" in Nahuatl and translated into Spanish as \"olla\" (\"pot\"). Ceramics were vital to the cooking process and served at least three major purposes: nixtamal preparation, tamale steaming, and cooking beans, stews, and hot beverages. The xoctli was filled with food and heated over a fire. It could also be used to steam food by pouring a little water into the xoctli and then placing tamales wrapped in maize husks on a light structure of twigs in the middle of the pot.\n\nTortillas, tamales, casseroles and the sauces that went with them were the most common dishes. Chili and salt were both ubiquitous and the most basic meal was usually just corn tortillas that were dipped in chilis that had been ground in a mortar with a little water. Dough could be used to encase meat, sometimes even whole turkeys, before cooking. In major Aztec towns and cities there were vendors that sold street food of all kinds, catering to both the rich and poor. Other than ingredients and prepared food every imaginable type of \"ātōlli\" could be bought, either to quench one's thirst or as an instant meal in liquid form.\n\nWomen, in charge of domestic duties in Aztec societies, were also the cooks. Generally, men did not directly participate in cooking. Based on where cooking tools are usually found, it seems that kitchens were a simple, single-room structure separate from the house itself. Most cooking probably took place on a small triangular hearth in the kitchen.\n\nMost information regarding Aztec cooking tools comes from finding the tools themselves, as depictions of the tools in art are rare, and when they are featured, they aren't particularly prominent or detailed. Luckily, tools were most often made of stone and ceramics and as such can be found in large quantities in good condition for study.\n\nManos and metates were the tool of choice for grinding nixtamalized maize (nixtamal). It was also used to grind sauce ingredients like peppers, though different sets of manos and metates would likely have been used to avoid getting other flavors in maize dough (masa). The metate is a stone slab that can be slightly concave. Nixtamal was placed on top of the metate and the mano, effectively a rough cylindrical stone, was rolled over it, grinding the nixtamal. The mano and metate is a tool that would have been used every day, since ground nixtamal usually goes bad within a day. Ethnographies of twentieth century indigenous communities seem to indicate that women could have spent between four and eight hours a day at a metate grinding nixtamal, but women in a 2007 study at Xaltocan insisted that an experienced woman could grind all she needed for the day in only an hour; regardless, use of a metate for grinding is considered tedious work. The mano and metate remained as the grinding tool of choice in Central Mexico, as it tends to grind finer than European-style mills, and tortillas made from masa ground on a mano and metate are still considered of a higher quality, if much more labor-intensive. However, some argue that the reason women used to and still do grind nixtamal by hand is because it was a way for men to limit the amount of free time women have in an effort to prevent extramarital affairs.\n\nThe molcajete is another grinding tool. It is a bowl made of porous basalt rock, and an accompanying basalt cylinder was used to grind foods into the molcajete. It looks and functions very similarly to a western mortar and pestle. The fact that a molcajete will hold whatever is prepared in it means it would have been ideal for preparing sauces that would spill off the sides of a metate, and molcajetes could also be used as serving vessels.\n\nComales are a type of ceramic griddle with a smooth top and a porous bottom used for cooking various types of tortillas, as well as for non-maize foods like peppers and roasted squash. It's possible that comales could also have been used as makeshift pot lids for the sake of convenience.\n\nThere are several references to frying in the accounts of Spanish chroniclers, but the only specification of the Aztec type of frying appears to be some kind of cooking that was done with syrup, not cooking fat. This is corroborated by the fact that no evidence for large-scale extraction of vegetable oils exist and that no cooking vessels suited for frying have been found by archaeologists.\n\nThe Aztec staple foods included maize, beans and squash to which were often added chilis, nopales and tomatoes, all prominent parts of the Mexican diet to this day. They harvested acocils, a small and abundant crayfish of Lake Texcoco, as well as Spirulina algae, which was made into a sort of cake called tecuitlatl and was rich in flavonoids. Although the Aztecs' diet was mostly vegetarian, the Aztecs consumed insects such as grasshoppers \"chapulín\" (singular) or \"chapulines\" (plural), maguey worm, ants, larvae, etc. Insects have a higher protein content than meat, and even now they are considered a delicacy in some parts of Mexico.\n\nMaize was the single most important staple of the Aztecs. It was consumed at every meal by all social classes, and played a central role in Aztec mythology. To some of the first Europeans, the Aztecs described maize as \"precious, our flesh, our bones\". It came in a vast number of varieties of various sizes, shapes and colors; yellow, reddish, white with stripes of color, black, with or without speckles and a blue-husked variant that was considered to be particularly precious. Other local and regional varieties must have also existed but few were recorded. Maize was revered to such an extent that women blew on maize before putting it into the cooking pot so that it would not fear the fire, and any maize that was dropped on the ground was picked up rather than being wasted. One of the Aztec informants of the Spanish Franciscan missionary and chronicler Bernardino de Sahagún explained the practice in the following way:\n\nA process called nixtamalization was used all over America where maize was the staple. The word is a compound of the Nahuatl words \"nextli\" (\"ashes\") and \"tamalli\" (\"unformed corn dough; tamal\"), and the process is still in use today. Dry maize grain is soaked and cooked in an alkaline solution, usually limewater. This releases the pericarp, the outer hull of the grains and makes the maize easier to grind. The process transforms maize from a simple source of carbohydrates into a considerably more complete nutritional package; it increases the amount of calcium, iron, copper, zinc that are added through the alkalide or the vessel used in the process and niacin, riboflavin and more protein already present in the corn that is not digestible to humans are made available through the process.\n\nThe inhibited growth of certain mycotoxins (toxic fungi) is another benefit of nixtamalization. If the processed maize, the \"nextamalli\", is allowed to ferment, further nutrients, including amino acids such as lysine and tryptophan are made available. Together with beans, vegetables, fruit, chilis and salt nixtamalized corn can form a healthy and diverse diet.\n\nA great number of herbs and spices were available to the Aztecs in seasoning food. Among the most important, chili peppers come in a wide variety of species and cultivars, some domesticated and many of them wild. These included a great range of heat intensity depending on the amount of capsaicin present, with some being mild and others being very piquant. The chilis were often dried and ground for storage and use in cooking, some roasted beforehand to impart different tastes. Flavors varied significantly from one type to another, including sweet, fruity, earthy, smoky, and fiery hot.\n\nNative species of plants used as seasonings produced flavors similar to Old World spices that often proved to be more easily accessible in cooking after the Spanish conquest. Culantro or Mexican coriander provides a much stronger flavor than its Old World parallel, cilantro, and its leaves can be easier to dry. Mexican oregano and Mexican anise likewise produce flavors reminiscent of their Mediterranean counterparts, while allspice has an aroma somewhere in between nutmeg, cloves, and cinnamon.\n\nThe bark of canella or white cinnamon has a soft, delicate flavor that might have eased the acceptance of the more pungent cinnamon of Ceylon into modern Mexican cuisine. Before the arrival of onions and garlic, subtler but similar wild plants such as Kunth's onion and other southern-ranging species of the genus \"Allium\", as well as the fragrant leaves of garlic vine may have been appropriated. Other flavorings available included mesquite, vanilla, achiote, epazote, hoja santa, popcorn flower, avocado leaf, and other indigenous plants.\n\nMany different alcoholic beverages were made from fermented maize, honey, pineapple, cactus fruit and other plants. The most common was \"octli\" which was made from maguey sap. It is today known as pulque, an Antillean term. It was drunk by all social classes, though some nobles made a point of not downing such a humble beverage. Drinking was tolerated, even for children at some occasions, but becoming intoxicated was not. The penalties could be very stiff, and were stricter for the elite.\n\nThe first transgression of a commoner would be punished by tearing his house down and sending him off to live in the field like an animal. A noble would generally not get a second chance and could be executed for overindulging in alcohol. Getting intoxicated appeared to have been more tolerated for elderly people; Spanish translations of the Codex Mendoza note that there were specific circumstances that allowed the elderly to drink: \n\nIt is shown how, according to the laws and customs of the lords of Mexico, they forbade drunkenness except to those of seventy years of age, man or woman, if such old persons had children or grandchildren. These had license and freedom to use it.\n\nThis did not prevent the occasional tragedy of nobles who became alcoholics and drank themselves into poverty, squalor and an early death. An informant of Sahagún told the sad story of a former tlacateccatl, a general and commander of over 8,000 troops:\n\n\"Ātōle\" (), maize gruel, accounted for a considerable amount of the daily calorie intake. The basic recipe for \"ātōle\" was eight parts water and six parts maize with lime that was cooked until it softened and then ground. The mixture was then boiled until it thickened. There were many variations of \"ātōle\": a mixture of 1/10 maguey syrup made \"nequātōle\"; adding chili ground with salt and tomato would make \"iztac ātōle\"; letting maize dough sour for 4–5 days and then adding more fresh dough with chili and salt would make \"xocoātōle\". Beans, baked corn tortillas with the crust cut off, toasted maize, chia, amaranth and honey could also be added and there was \"pinolli\", ground toasted maize that was carried by travelers in sacks which could be mixed with water on the road for an instant meal.\n\nCacao had immense symbolic value. It was a rare luxury and an import that could not be grown within the boundaries of the Aztec Empire. There are no detailed descriptions of how cacao solids were prepared, but there are a number of allusions to the fact that it was eaten in some form. Cacao beans were among the most valuable commodities and could be used as a form of payment, although of somewhat low value; 80-100 beans could be used to buy a small mantle or a canoe-full of fresh water if one lived on the salty part of the lakes around Tenochtitlan. Nevertheless, beans were frequently counterfeited by filling empty cacao shells with dirt or mud.\n\nCacao was commonly drunk as \"cacahuatl\", \"cacao water\", and was the beverage of warriors and nobles. It was considered a potent intoxicant and something that was drunk with great solemnity and gravity and was described as something \"not drunk unthinkingly\" by the Spanish chronicler Sahagún. Chocolate could be prepared in a huge variety of ways and most of them involved mixing hot or tepid water with toasted and ground cacao beans, maize and any number of flavorers such as chili, honey, vanilla and a wide variety of spices.\n\nThe ingredients were mixed and beaten with a beating stick or aerated by pouring the chocolate from one vessel to another. If the cacao was of high quality, this produced a rich head of foam. The head could be set aside, the drink further aerated to produce another head, which was also set aside and then placed on top of the drink along with the rest of the foam before serving.\n\nThe Aztecs stressed moderation in all aspects of life. European authors and chroniclers were often impressed by what they perceived as exemplary frugality, simplicity and moderation. Juan de Palafox y Mendoza, the bishop of Puebla and viceroy of New Spain in the 1640s reported:\n\nThe primary meaning of an Aztec fast was to abstain from salt and chilis and all members of Aztec society engaged in fasting to some extent. There were no regular exceptions from the fast, something that shocked the first Europeans who came into contact with the Aztecs. Though fasting was common in Europe, there were permanent exceptions for the women and small children, the sick or frail and the elderly. Before the New Fire ceremony, which occurred every 52 years, some priests fasted for a whole year; the other priests 80 days and lords 8 days.\n\nCommoners engaged in fasts, but less rigorously. There was also a permanent contingent of fasters in Tehuacan. Along with various ascetic rigors like sleeping on a stone pillow, they fasted for periods of four years on one 50-gram corn tortilla (about 2 ounces) per day. The only respite came every 20 days, when they were allowed to eat whatever they wanted.\n\nEven rulers such as Moctezuma were expected to cut down on their otherwise luxurious lifestyle and did so with considerable conviction and effort. At times he abstained from luxuries and sex with women and ate only cakes of \"michihuauhtli\" and seeds of amaranth or goosefoot. The lord's chocolate was also replaced with water mixed from parched bean powder. This can be contrasted with the fasts of many European nobles and clergy that, while obeying the letter of the religious regulation by replacing meat and animal products with fish, were still luxurious feasts in their own right.\n\nDuring the fourteenth month, called Quecholli, ceremonies in honor of Mixcoatl (Cloud serpent, god of the hunt), there would be a large hunt as part of the ritual. To prepare for the hunt Aztecs would fast for five days. The fasting was done, according to Sahagun, \"for the deer, so that it would be a successful hunt.\"\n\nDuring the celebrations of the god Tezcatlipoca, his priests fasted for ten, five, or seven days continuously before the main feasts. They were known as \"those who do penance.\"\n\nDuring celebrations of Huitzilopoctli it was noted by Friar Duran: \"I have been assured that they became so weak because of the terrible eight-day fast that for another eight days they were not themselves, nor were they satisfied with eating. Many became gravely ill, and the lives of many pregnant women were in danger.\"\n\nDuring festivals in honor of Chicomecoatl, there would be a drastic back and forth of gorging and fasting. So much so that people would become ill.\n\nBernal Diaz del Castillo comments on how the ruler of Tenochtitlan was served food:\n\nHis cooks had more than thirty styles of dishes made according to their fashion and usage, and they put them on small low clay braziers so that they would not get cold ... if it was cold they made him a fire of glowing coals made from the bark of certain trees ... the odor of the bark ... was most fragrant ... they put the tablecloths of white fabric ... They served him on Cholula pottery, some red and some black ... and from time to time they brought him some cups of fine gold, with a certain drink made of cacao.\n\nSahagun provides a list of the different types of tlaquetzalli, a chocolate drink served to Aztec lords: \n\nThe ruler was served his chocolate, with which he finished [his repast] - green, made of tender cacao; honeyed chocolate made with ground-up dried flowers - with green vanilla pods; bright red chocolate; orange-colored chocolate; rose-colored chocolate; black chocolate; white chocolate.\"\n\nAztec expansion was targeted in ways to gain or maintain access to foodstuffs need for ceremony and everyday life. The leader's ability to acquire food needed for ritual was important for his political success.\n\nThe Aztecs practiced ritualistic cannibalism. Victims, usually prisoners of war, were sacrificed in public on top of temples and pyramids by cutting out their hearts. The bodies were then thrown down to the ground where they were dismembered. The pieces were then distributed to the elite, which were mostly warriors and priests. The meat was consumed in the form of stews flavored only with salt and eaten with corn tortillas, but without the otherwise ubiquitous chili.\n\nThe veintena Tlacaxipehualiztli was one of intense human sacrifice, it was noted by Sahagun that \"it was the time when all captives died, all those taken, all those who were made captive, the men, the women, all the children.\" It began with the sacrifice of captured warriors, the flesh of the sacrificed warriors would be taken to the residence of the Aztec who had captured the warrior. The capturer was forbidden to feast on the flesh of the sacrificed, however his family would eat it. A stew called tlacatlaolli was prepared out of dried maize and into each serving would be placed a piece of the flesh of the captive.\n\nIn the late 1970s the anthropologist Michael Harner suggested that the Aztecs had resorted to large-scale, organized cannibalism to make up for a supposed protein deficiency in the diet. This idea gained limited support from some scholars, but has been shown to be based on unfounded assumptions about eating habits, agriculture and demographics, making it a highly unlikely scenario.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47151668", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47151668", "title": "Bimoba people", "text": "Bimoba people\n\nBimoba people are a Gur-speaking ethnic group from north-eastern Ghana who are closely related to the Moba people of north-western Togo.They are an independent ethnic group whose major population centres in Ghana include but not limited to Bimbagu, Bunkpurugu. The Bimoba and the Bikuom are distant relatives but the two have experienced violent confrontations in the past. The Bimoba in the north-eastern Ghana number approximately 2,3000 000 people. The Bimoba speak the Moar.\n\nThe Bimoba are believed to have migrated southwards from the Present-day Burkina-Faso following the collapse of the Kingdom of Fada-Gurma around 1420.\n\nBimoba society is patriarchal and is structured around clan and family heads. There are Clan-based kings or chiefs with vested power to hold the various clans together. The clans themselves can be located on multiple locations based on power and numbers. Presently, the clan groups of the Bimoba include Puri, Tanmung, Gbong, Labsiak, Kunduek, Buok, the Baakpang, Turinwe and Kanyakib.\n\nThe Bimoba practice predominantly ethnic religions. Although they believe in the concept of an Almighty God, they each identify with personal deities collectively referred to as \"Yennu\" which translates as \"god\" or \"sun\". Their ancestors play a role by being the contact between themselves and \"Yannu\". A typical Bimoba compound would have a clay construction altar (\"patir\"; plural: \"pataa\") in an enclosed hut (\"nakouk\") where sacrifices are made to invoke the presence of the ancestors. Women are allowed into the nakuuk. Aside the patir located in the compound, every family member is allowed to construct their own small altar known as a \"mier\". Communities may have a common shrine known as \"tingban\". The \"tingban\" is visited at times of problems that concern the entire community such as a drought or a disease outbreak.\n"}
{"id": "2019772", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2019772", "title": "Cacerolazo", "text": "Cacerolazo\n\nA cacerolazo (), cacerolada () or casserole is a form of popular protest which consists of a group of people making noise by banging pots, pans, and other utensils in order to call for attention.\nIt arose in South America (in particular Venezuela, Argentina, Chile, Colombia, Uruguay, Ecuador, Cuba, Peru, Brazil) and has been seen more recently in English- and French-speaking countries, most notably Québec, as well as in Turkey during the 2013 protests in Turkey. \n\nWhat is peculiar about this type of demonstration is that people can protest from their own homes, thus achieving a high level of support and participation.\n\nThe word comes from Spanish \"cacerola\", which means \"stew pot\". The derivative suffixes \"-azo\" and \"-ada\" denote a hitting (punching or striking) action, and has been extended metaphorically to any sort of shock demonstration. This type of manifestation started in 1971 in Chile, against the shortages of food during the administration of Salvador Allende.\n\nOne of the largest and most recent cacerolazos occurred in Argentina during 2001, consisting largely of protests and demonstrations by middle-class people who had seen their savings trapped in the so-called \"corralito\" (a set of restrictive economic measures that effectively froze all bank accounts, initially as a short-term fix for the massive draining of bank deposits). The \"corralito\" meant that many people who needed a large amount of cash immediately, or who simply lived off the interests from their deposits, suddenly found their savings unavailable. As court appeals were slow and ineffective, people resorted to protest in the streets.\n\nAs the Argentine peso quickly devalued and foreign currency fled the country, the government decreed a forced conversion of dollar-denominated accounts into pesos at an arbitrary exchange rate of 1.4 pesos per dollar. At this point the unavailability of cash for people trapped in the \"corralito\" compounded with the continuous loss of value of their savings, and the unresponsiveness of the appeal authorities (minor courts and the Supreme Court itself) further angered the protesters.\nThe first \"cacerolazos\" were spontaneous and non-partisan. While in Argentina most demonstrations against government measures are customarily organized by labour union activists and low-level political recruiters among the lower classes, and often featuring an assortment of large banners, drums and pyrotechnic devices, \"cacerolazos\" were composed mostly of spontaneously gathered middle-class workers, housewives and professionals, who used not to be involved in grassroots political action of any kind.\n\nAfter a time, however, the \"cacerolazo\" became an organized phenomenon, often of a violent nature, directed against the banks. Many of these were attacked, their facades spray-painted, their windows broken, their entrances blocked by tire fires, or even their facilities occupied by force at times.\n\nIn order to avoid further violence, especially with the deadly December 2001 riots still fresh in the memories of Argentines, the government decided not to use active police force against the \"cacerolazos\" unless absolutely necessary, and to restrict most police presence to barricades in critical spots, a policy that was followed also with \"piquetero\" marches of unemployed people asking for state welfare and jobs.\n\nIsolated \"cacerolazos\" also featured during the \"apagón\" (\"blackout\") of September 24, 2002, to protest against increases in public service fees requested by the providers.\nAs the financial and macroeconomic conditions became more stable, the government loosened the restrictions on the withdrawal of deposits, and the \"cacerolazos\" died out.\n\nOn March 25, a group led by Luis D'Elía, a supporter of the Kirchner administration, and a cacerolazo violently faced each other during the demonstrations pro and against the export tax policy of Cristina Kirchner's government.\n\nOn May 31, a nationwide cacerolazo took place with a massive following of approximately ten thousand people in the capital alone. The march was organised on the internet and was in protest of the Kirchnerite government, specifically against the introduction of controls on the foreign currency exchange market by Cristina Kirchner's government, rampant crime rates, a sense of disruption and infringement of civil rights due to increasingly interventionist policies by the AFIP tax agency(irs), including a fiscal reform in Buenos Aires province that would more than triple the current land property tax, income tax rates unadjusted according to real inflation, persevering high inflation, a devalued currency, the inability to save money and many allegedly corruption charges against government and policymakers \n\nOn May 31 and June 1, cacerolazos in high class neighbourhoods were organized through the internet in protest to a diversity of reasons, not existing a single cohesive one. The most prominent was the introduction of controls on the foreign currency exchange market by Cristina Kirchner's government. With a lesser extent it was a protest against crime, fiscal reform on land property tax and allegedly national government corruption cases \n\nOn June 7, there was a cacerolazo with a concentration of around a thousand people in Plaza de Mayo and in Buenos Aires's avenues intersections of high class neighbourhoods. The following week, June 14, another concentration in Plaza de Mayo was attended by a just a few hundreds.\n\nOn September 13, thousands of Argentines marched in the largest protests since 2008 against the government of President Cristina Fernandez, who, according to an opinion poll by Management & Fit, has lost popularity since her landslide re-election the previous year (this point of view is not shared by public opinion research company Equis, whose CEO Artemio López said that the popularity indexes remain stable). The event raised a noticeable polemic, as news coverage from most government-aligned newspapers and TV broadcasters was reduced to a minimum, and government officials' claim regarding that the cacerolazo only represented a small and minority portion of the population.\n\nAnother protest was made on November 8, commonly known as 8N amongst the country, principally in the Obelisco and the Plaza de Mayo, and around the world in the major cities of Spain, the US, Canada, Brazil, France, the UK and bordering countries. The latter was also called within Facebook and Twitter, though in contrast to the one on September 13, to which assisted over 50,000 people, 250,000 were present at the 8N. The main complaints were, again the February rail accident victims, the inflation and the reject to the possible \"re-re-election\" of Kirchner, but also insecurity and the Ley de Medios. Again, Todo Noticias dedicated to transmit it completely, while other media supporting the president, such as América TV and C5N, in which a reporter was knocked down were also present.The president of the Asociación Mutual Israelita Argentina, Guillermo Borger, described as \"reprehensible and abominable\" swastikas presence during the protest march held anti-government sectors in the Plaza de Mayo and other parts of the country.\n\"There is nothing that can justify the presence of these symbols\", which recalled \"the aberrant moment in the history of mankind,\" the official told the agency that plays Jewish News (AJN).\n\nIn 2017 and 2018, Hirak Rif or Rif Movement activists in the Rif region used Cacerolazo to protest against Morocco's politics in the Rif region. \n\nIn 2012 in Québec citizens were using cacerolazo after the adoption on 18 May of Bill 78, an act which restricts rights to assemble after peaceful protests were met with police violence in Montreal and Victoriaville. Bill 78, aimed at restoring access to education for those students who disagreed with the general strike and at protecting businesses and citizens from any violence that might occur as a result of a protest, has been criticized by the United Nations, the Quebec Bar Association, Amnesty International, and others. Court challenges against the bill are underway.\n\nA large number \"casseroles\" or \"pots and pans demonstrations\" were held in towns and cities across the province, with the largest ones being primarily concentrated in Montreal's various neighbourhoods. More protests outside the Province of Quebec (over 66 other Canadian locations) were held in solidarity with the student protesters, including cities and towns such as Vancouver, Calgary, Saskatoon, Winnipeg, Hamilton, Sudbury, Tatamagouche, and Halifax.\n\nIn 2004, a song named \"Libérez-nous des libéraux\" (Liberate Us From Liberals) was written, which prophesied \"Need to rush into the street / like a spring flood / shattering our discontent / a debacle of pans / enough talking, make noise / a charivari to topple the party / as in Argentine, in Bolivia\". On June 15, 2012, when the same band played a gig at Francofolies, they asked everybody to bring their pans and spoons.\n\nCacerolazos began in Chile in 1971 in protest at shortages during the Salvador Allende administration. By 1973 they had become commonplace as protests against the administration intensified amid increasing shortages. After Augusto Pinochet seized power in 1973 cacerolazos disappeared for a time until the economic crisis of 1982-83 set in. Thereafter cacerolazos continued up until the Pinochet regime lost a plebiscite in 1988 that put him out of office two years later.\n\n\"Cacerolazos\" were organized in 2011 for two different reasons. On 15 May there was pot-banging in several cities in protest of the HidroAysén dam project. Then in August there were two \"cacerolazos\" across the country in support of student protests, the first in August 4 and a second one in August 8.\n\nOn November 18th there was another \"cacerolazo\" because of the murder of a Mapuche leader, (24), under the repression from the anti-terrorist police unit \"Comando Jungla\" (Jungle Command) in the community of Temucuicui, Araucania Region on November 14th. He was working in his tractor near his home when he was twice shot in the back of the head, while other 5 people resulted injured.\n\nThe protests following the financial crisis that started in 2008 are sometimes called The Kitchenware Revolution, because people took to the streets banging on pots and pans and other household utensils.\n\nIn 2006, during the Oaxaca protests that saw thousands occupy their city following the police repression of teachers' strike, 5000 women marchers banged pots and pans with spoons and meat tenderizers. Their march took them through the city squares and to outside the state-run television station channel 9. The women demanded a one-hour slot to report on the people's story of what was happening in Oaxaca; a story that was censored and skewed by government propaganda against the protesters. When the station refused the women, still carrying their pots and pans, entered the building and took over the station. They carried out live broadcasts of the people's struggles.\n\nMore than 90% of the Spaniards were against the Iraq War and provoked during 2003 cacerolazo-fashioned protests against the government decision to support it. People protested from their homes turning lights on and off, making noise with whistles and klaxons and hitting stew pots. In Huesca lamp posts of 16 streets were turned off in protest during 15 minutes.\n\nDuring the Catalan general strike in October 2017, Catalans protested the response of King Felipe VI with cacerolazo.\n\nDuring the 2013 protests in Turkey when late at night after May 31 people in central Istanbul were forced to go to their homes due to the high amounts of tear gas, they continued protesting from their homes by banging pots and pans. About half past one the entire city started to reverberate. This also functioned to create awareness of the situation since the self-censorship of media prevented people from being informed about the scale of the protests. After the first day, this form of protests continued, starting every evening at 9pm, lasting a few minutes.\n\nAfter the 2013 election on the 15th of April millions of Capriles supporters banged their pots and pans in the streets and from their windows after Capriles refused to accept the results, asked for a recount, and told the whole country to protest during a power cut of three hours in some places nationwide. The next day, Capriles supporters continued the cacerolazo, asking for a recount. Similar concentrations were observed all over the world, particularly in South and Central Florida, where a lot of Venezuelan citizens reside, most of them Capriles sympathizers. It was no less than Capriles himself who called for a \"cacerolazo\" to denounce the election results, after the National Electoral Council declared Nicolas Maduro of the United Socialist Party of Venezuela the official winner in the snap presidential elections held the previous day.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8702554", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8702554", "title": "Canadian Ecology Centre", "text": "Canadian Ecology Centre\n\nThe Canadian Ecology Centre (CEC) is an outdoor education complex located within Samuel de Champlain Provincial Park, near the town of Mattawa, Ontario.\n\nThe Canadian Ecology Centre site consists of a main building and several smaller cabins on a tract of land within Samuel de Champlain Provincial Park. The CEC is a non-profit organization and was initially supported by proponents within the logging and wood industries, such as Tembec, as well as by various levels of government, NGOs, and public donors to get the Centre off the ground. The CEC facilities, while contemporary in both age and design, are constructed almost entirely out of wood.\n\nThe CEC is primarily an educational and research centre, where courses on a wide variety of subjects ranging from local culture and history to biology and science to forestry management and mining are offered to the public. The site is also equipped with high-speed internet access, and can be rented out as a wedding venue, conference or meeting centre. Cabins can also be rented for a nightly rate as an alternative to \"tenting it\" in the park.\n\nThe centre, like much of the surrounding communities, is almost fully bilingual and offers most programs in English and French.\n\nThe CEC is also the headquarters for the Canadian Institute of Forestry.\n\nBy far the best-known aspect of the CEC, however, is Eco-Camp, which is a summer program offering academic credit to high school students. Formal two-week courses in subjects such as Science, Biology, Environmental Science and Geography are available. The program is residential, and students live on-site for the duration. The most popular programs, a grade 11 and 12 biology courses, are almost invariably booked solid even with two back-to-back offerings of the course.\n\nThe CEC offers a variety of Professional Development opportunities throughout the year, including the summer months. Take part in single or multi-day programs that are designed and developed to provide hands-on, informative and engaging learning opportunities as well as opportunities to network with professionals and receive great resources and experiences that will transform and enhance career goals and personal development.\n\nTraining and certifications are available for professionals in a variety of fields and areas of interest.\n"}
{"id": "12272680", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12272680", "title": "Canadian Power and Sail Squadrons", "text": "Canadian Power and Sail Squadrons\n\nCanadian Power and Sail Squadrons / Escadrille canadiennes de plaisance (CPS-ECP) is an organization of recreational boaters with over 26,000 active members. CPS is headquartered in Toronto, Ontario. Its volunteer instructors help recreational boaters improve their boating safety knowledge as well as their vessel handling and navigation skills. CPS offers boating safety courses every year and provides qualification for the Pleasure Craft Operator Card (PCOC). Its patron is HRH Prince Philip, Duke of Edinburgh.\n\nCanadian Power Squadron was founded in Windsor, Ontario in 1938 after a group of boaters travelled to the Detroit Power Squadron to take the United States Power Squadrons Coastal Navigation Course. Upon their successful completion of the course, they formed the Windsor Power Squadron, closely followed by the formation of Squadrons in Sarnia, London and Toronto. CPS now has 166 Squadrons in all provinces and the Yukon Territory. CPS was incorporated in 1947, and in 1985 changed its name to Canadian Power and Sail Squadrons. At that time, the French name, \"Escadrilles canadiennes de plaisance\" was formally adopted.\n\nOver 26,000 members volunteer their time for CPS to help promote the Boating and PCOC courses to the general public, and providing various services for the membership. Most of the volunteers are involved in boat training, developing and writing courses and instructing in classrooms across Canada.\n\nOne who successfully completes either the CPS Boating Course (called Piloting until 1972) or the CPS PCOC Course becomes a member of the organization. Full members are then permitted to fly the CPS flag on their vessels and receive six issues of \"Canadian Yachting\" magazine, four of which contain the member publication, \"The Port Hole\". In Quebec, members receive four issues of \"L'Escale Nautique\" magazine, which contain the French member publication, \"Le Hublot\". The members also have the opportunity to take a number of advanced and elective courses. Throughout the years a number of member benefits have been developed, including the ability to purchase a CPS Members Insurance policy, which offers a discount based on the courses members have taken.\n\nAlong with the CPS Boating Course and the CPS PCOC Course, there are a number of elective courses, which are open to both members and the public. These include topics such as Fundamentals of Weather, Global Weather, Marine Maintenance, Distress Signaling, Extended Cruising, Maritime Radio, and Seamanship Sail. There are also a number of electronic courses including, Finding Your Way With GPS, Navigating with GPS, Electronic Charting, Radar for Pleasure Craft, and Depth Sounder. CPS is constantly updating and developing courses for recreational boaters throughout Canada.\n\nCPS manages the Restricted Maritime Radio Operator's Course on behalf of Industry Canada.\n\nAdvanced courses offered by CPS include Seamanship (formerly called Piloting), which prepares boaters for travel on Canada's great lakes. Advance Piloting delves into subjects that include more information on tides and currents to prepare boaters for ocean travel. There is also a Celestial Navigation Course for instruction in navigating by the stars. For the volunteers who serve the organization, CPS offers Officer Training and Instructor Development programs. Many of the courses offered by CPS enhance members' expertise in their private lives as well.\n\nCPS offers its members volunteer opportunities such as instructing or proctoring local classes or taking a position on the Squadron Executive Committee. Members can also volunteer at the District and National level by serving on a variety of committees, which are responsible for training, public relations, marine reporting, environmental issues, publications, communications, conferences and meetings, development of Port Captains, membership, and other areas.\n\nCPS holds a National Conference, rotating to a different region in Canada each year, at which it recognizes its various partners and offers a variety of seminars on new developments.\n\n"}
{"id": "58383660", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58383660", "title": "Chinese influence on Japanese culture", "text": "Chinese influence on Japanese culture\n\nChinese influence on Japanese culture refers to the impact of continental Asian influences transmitted through or originating in China on Japanese institutions, culture, language and society. Japan culture has made its reputation through anime, manga, and music such as JPOP, but other elements of its culture such as Daoism/Taoism, Buddhism, Astronomy and Language, have been influenced by China.\n\nArisen conflicts caused by Chinese expansion in the later stages of the Jōmon Period, circa 400 BCE, led to mass migration to Japan. The migrants primarily came from continental Asia, more specifically the Korean peninsula, which brought over “new pottery, bronze, iron and improved metalworking techniques”, which help improve the pre-existing farming tools and weaponry. Chinese influence came allegedly by sea, as opposed to by land. Japanese students studying in China essentially became the most important information-bearers, bringing back elements of its culture.\n\nThe influence of Chinese culture was an indirect effect of communications by Korea, around the 1st to the 5th century A.D.. Korea had already incorporated major elements of Chinese civilization into their own culture, and from there, mediated the interchanges between China and Japan.\n\nThe Han Shu written in 82 A.D. (also known as ‘the book of Han’ or ‘History of Han’), states that the Wa sent envoys and tribute to the Jùn (Chinese commandery) in northern parts of Korea. To further expand, the Wa was a confederation of minor southern and western states of Japan, with an emphasis on the state Yamato. According to the Han Shu, this was the first textual reference made to Japan, in reference to Sino-Japanese interaction. Another Chinese source that documents Chinese influence on Japanese culture is Wei Chih written in 297 A.D. (also known as ‘History of Wei’). Wei Chih states that Chinese and Japanese interactions of tribute originates back to 57 and 107 A.D. Prominent figures of authority, such as Queen Himiko, sent Japanese ambassadors to parts which belonged to the Chinese, around 189-248 A.D.. This continued in the Kofun Period, as envoys continued to be transmitted from Japan into China. In 502 A.D., eleven new envoys were sent to China. This was, according to Mark Cartwright, the emergence of Yamato Japan as an international diplomatic state.\n\nIn comparison to Korea, Japan controlled its intake of cultural influence from China, also known as ‘cultural borrowing’. This meant that it “acknowledged the cultural superiority of the Chinese Middle Kingdom”, while always holding onto its political independence. In addition to controlling the process of ‘cultural borrowing’, Japan also remained selective when considering which Chinese ideas and institutions they wanted to adopt.\n\nFor more information see History of China-Japan relations. \n\nDaoism/Taoism is a set of religious and philosophical beliefs which explores the ideas of rituals, scriptures all whilst considering the Dao/Tao. It can be traced back to the 3rd century BCE. As a product of Chinese philosophers, it made its way to Japan and has thus been significantly changed as it became in contact with the Japanese Culture. Originally, as Daoism developed in China was complex, multifaceted and a continuous recreation of new and old ideas. It’s form as it became integrated into Japanese culture was introduced as a part of the \"ritsuryō\" state. As a result of this, through textual pieces, Daoism marketed its way gradually into Japanese Culture, though different from its original influence, which was Chinese Daoism. \n\nThere have been debates regarding which undefined elements of Daoism within “the Japanese religio-political landscape” belongs to history and traditions of China, and which are merely an aspect of Daoism itself. Author and research associate Gaynor Sekimori, argues that aspects such as cosmology, yin and yang, Wu Xing (the five phases), divination, astronomy/astrology and the Yijīng were originally a part of Chinese cultural heritage, which thus influenced Daoism. \n\nThere has also been a level of uncertainty regarding Daoism/Taoism, whether it be majoritively Chinese culture or simply influenced a part of Daoism. Jonathan Smith made claims as to distinguish what is a part of Chinese heritage and that of Daoism itself, claiming there are elements which are “Daoist” and “Taoist-flavoured”.\n\nBuilding on this, Japanese philosopher Miura Kunio distinguishes specific elements of Daoism as either belonging to the Chinese culture or as aspects transferred into the Japanese culture following the introduction of Daoism. To further expand, Kunio claimed that elements that were presented to Japan in the seventh century, such as “calendar-making, astronomy/astrology and divination” as belonging to the Chinese Culture. Elements such as immortality beliefs, Daoist scriptures and Kōshin cult were transferred into Japan as a part of Daoism.\n\nAs one of the largest world religions, Buddhism emerged out of India around 6th century BC. Buddhism has three major ‘branches’, which include \"Theravada\" (foundational Buddhism), \"Mahayana\" (or ‘Greater Vehicle’ Buddhism) and \"Vajrayana\" (Esoteric Buddhism or ‘Diamond Vehicle’). Buddhism was brought over to Japan through China and Korea in the year 552.\n\nFurthermore, Buddhism was encouraged by those in power, such as Prince Shotoku. He argued that Buddhism was essential in “promoting Chinese ideas”. Out of the three branches of Buddhism, it was the Mahayana which first became rooted in the Japanese culture.\n\nAnother example of Chinese influence on Japanese religion is the introduction of Vajrayana Buddhism. In the beginning of the Heian Period, several Japanese monks that had studied religion in China returned, consequently establishing Vajrayana Buddhism through the creation of Buddhist sects. Specifically, two scholar monks known as Saichō and Kūkai helped create the Tendai sect and Shingon sect. The Tendai sect was created in 805 by Saichō following his return from T’Ang China, and helped firmly establish Vajrayana.\n\nTo further expand on this, Saichō travelled to China for eleven months in 804 on the quest for the T'ien- t'ai (or Tiantai), the Chinese Buddhist School. Saichō wanted to transfer the idea of the T'ien- t'ai Dharma heritage into Japan, while still keeping the authenticity of the original Chinese-based Buddhist school. In his final month in Ming-chou, Saichō went to Yüeh-chou in order to gather further religious texts concerning esoteric Buddhism (Vajrayana); where he essentially meet the priest Shun-hsiao who informed him and gave him instructions about Vajrayana Buddhism. Following his visit to Yüeh-chou, Saichō was able to retrieve Buddhist instruments, related to rituals, paintings of the goddesses of Vajrayana and 38 religious texts related to Mikkyō. In accordance to several pieces historical research “both inside and outside the Tendai school demonstrates that Saichō encounter with Mikkyō in China was rather accidental”. Furthermore, according to Japanese historian Kōyū Sonoda, Saichō’s original plan consisted of sending two disciples to do his research on the T’ien-t’ai, though it was changed last minute as Emperor Kanmu was able to persuade Saichō to pursue and lead the journey personally.\n\nFrom there, Saichō helped ‘pave the way’ for the Shingon sect to be introduced in 806 by Kūkai. In order for both founders to benefit from the introduction of Buddhism, Saichō stood behind Kūkai and helped him get the mountain temple of Takaosan-ji northwest of Kyoto, and make it into the original Shingon School. In return, Kūkai helped educate and train Saichō and his followers \"Vajrayana\" rituals\".\" Furthermore\",\" Kūkai also shared his Mikkyō texts which he had gotten during his final trip to Yüeh-chou, China.\n\nProfessor at Doshisha University, Kazuhiko Miyajima argues that Japan was heavily influenced by Chinese astronomy and astrology. The Japanese learnt about Chinese astronomy first from Koreans, to consequently learning it directly from the Chinese. The influence of astronomy took roots in government offices, as a direct influence of the Chinese model, which became known as “Onmyo no tsukasa”. This office was in charge of specific information related to both astronomy and astrology, identical to the elements distinguished to be a part of Daoism. The four departments a part of the office includes “divination by celestial omens, calendar-making time-keeping and yin-yan divination”. The responsibility of these departments is similar to the Chinese equivalent T'ai shih chu and T'ai-pu shu.\n\nIn terms of cardinal direction, orientation in main streets in cities such as Naniwa no miya and Heijo Kyo was achieved by “learning the Chinese way of surveying”. \n\nIn addition, Japanese star maps were influenced by Chinese astronomy, as several star maps within Japan held the same Chinese star names. They were created as a direct duplication of the Chinese, though only a few still remain popular. To further elaborate, Shibukawa Harumi, known as the “first official astronomer of the Edo period”, published two kinds of star maps, adapted from the traditional Chinese model which came from Korea. Some star maps which were created by Takahashi Kageyasu and Ishizaka Joken continue to take inspiration from Western ideals of Astronomy. Western astronomy essentially landed in Japan through China, through a book known as “T’ienching huomen”. The book’s popularity in China was short-lived due to its simplification, excessive mistakes and inaccuracy, but succeeded immensely nonetheless in Japan.  \n\nKanji is term for the adopted Chinese characters used in the Japanese written language. The Chinese writing system influenced the spoken Japanese language first, and thus “provided key vehicles for intellectual creativity”. Its origin in Japan dates back to the Kofun Period, and its introduction is believed to be between the years 300 and 710 A.D.\n\nIt is believed that the Japanese writing system came under influence by the Chinese through its written language. In the beginning, writing in Japan was primarily done by immigrant clerks who wrote in Chinese. One individual in particular known as Wani helped introduce the Chinese characters into Japan. Wani was a scholar that had arrived sometime during the late 4th century from one of the Korean kingdoms Paekche (also known as Baekje). He supposedly brought 11 volumes of Chinese writings with him to Japan. Wani remained in Japan, and helped inspire groups of scribes that later became known as the Fumi-no-obito. Literacy was rare and limited to immigrant groups and their families during the 5th and 6th century. The act of writing and learning Chinese was instigated in Japan in the early 5th century.\n\nWithin the 7th century, Japanese scholars-aristocrats began to learn Chinese through reading and writing, with the purpose of doing business.\n\nThe adaption of the Chinese characters was said to be challenging, but its outcome allowed Yamato Japan to establish bureaucracy. It also helped Japanese authority figures to gain control of clans and peasants. Moreover, the introduction of Chinese into the Japanese language broadened the Japanese access to educational texts on ranging subjects, such as science, religion, art and philosophy. Consequently, as Japanese students began to master Chinese they were able to travel to China and thus continue to learn about the language and culture.\n\nIt has been said that the introduction of Chinese characters and learning in the 4th century A.D. highlighted a grand “turning point in Japanese cultural development”. \n\nNakatomi no Kamatari created the clan known as Fujiwara in the year 645. It was successfully in power right up until the 11th century, where the military class (or the Samurai) assumed its position. Following the Fujiwara clan, the Taika reforms were created in 646. The Taika reforms helped create a new government system influenced by the Chinese model. What this entailed was that land was purchased by the state and thus redistributed fairly to all. This land reform was gateway for “introducing the new tax system that was also adopted from China”.\n"}
{"id": "6791052", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6791052", "title": "Conservation development", "text": "Conservation development\n\nConservation development, also known as conservation design, is a controlled-growth land use development that adopts the principle for allowing limited sustainable development while protecting the area's natural environmental features in perpetuity, including preserving open space landscape and vista, protecting farmland or natural habitats for wildlife, and maintaining the character of rural communities. A conservation development is usually defined as a project that dedicates a minimum of 50 percent of the total development parcel as open space. The management and ownership of the land are often formed by the partnership between private land owners, land-use conservation organizations and local government. It is a growing trend in many parts of the country, particularly in the Western United States. In the Eastern United States, conservation design has been promoted by some state and local governments as a technique to help preserve water quality.\n\nThis type of planning is becoming increasingly more relevant as \"land conversion for housing development is a leading cause of habitat loss and fragmentation\". With a loss or fragmentation of a species' habitat, it results in the endangerment of a species and pushes them towards premature extinction. Land conversion also contributes to the reduction of agriculturally productive land, already shrinking due to climate change.\n\nConservation Development differs from other land protection approaches by aiming to protect land and environmental resources on parcels slated for immediate development—to protect land here and now. In contrast, a green belt approach typically aims to protect land from future development, and in a region beyond areas currently slated for development. It seeks to offer a gradient between urban regions and open countryside, beyond what a line on a map—typically a highway—currently provides. This approach seeks to avoid the dichotomy of economic urbanism on one side of such a street while on the other lies completely protected woodlands and farm fields, devoid of inclusion in that economy. Addressing the theoretical illusion that humanity walled off is better-off, Conservation Development recognizes that design of how we live is far more important than we allot credit; that instead of walling off a problem we need to face that problem and drastically lower our impact on the sites where we live, and indeed raise the performance of our communities toward a level where such walls are no longer considered first response requirements.\n\nConservation development was formulated in the early 1980s by a British-trained planner Randall Arendt. He pulled together several concepts from the 1960s. He combined the idea of cluster and open space design with Ian McHarg's \"design with nature\" philosophy.\n\nConservation development seeks to protect a variety of ecological resources and services such as biodiversity, productive farmland, ecosystem services, scenic landscapes and historic and cultural resources. This is achieved by identifying the ecologically sensitive and valuable areas. The protected lands can be under an easement to prevent development on it. Housing is then built around the protected areas. Density, lots sizes, types of housing and amount of protected area is dependent on the type of conservation development.\n\nWhile not a prevalent type of development, it's estimated that conservation development takes up between 2.5%-10% of the total US real estate development. Conservation development is usually applied to rural, exurban or suburban residential subdivisions, though it does have a few urban applications (Doyle 4). \n\nWhile there are several types of conservation developments, they all have several features in common. All developments have conservation land set aside, either held by a conservation organization or protected by a conservation easement. These developments must have ongoing stewardship for the protected portion of the parcel. Secondly, the development finances the projected area. Third, each development begins by surveying the land's ecological features and resources. A decision can then be made about where to build and what areas need to be protected. Lastly, these developments also use a variety of design features to reduce some of the negative impacts inherent in development. Examples include low-impact stormwater management systems, and landscape design.\n\nMilder cites four principal conservation development techniques found in the United States. The first two he groups together as having a \"conservation with development\" philosophy. Conservation is the main goal with development as a means to that end. The latter two types fall under the \"development with conservation\" ethos. These two types of projects are done through private developers whose goal is turn a profit at the end of the day, but in a \"conservation-friendly matter\". Table 1 provides an excellent summary of the different conservation development techniques.\n\nThe first type he calls conservation buyer projects. In this situation, a land trust buys the property and places the ecologically important areas under a conservation easement. They then resell the land, including the easement, to a conservation buyer. The buyer cannot build on the easement, but may do so on the remaining, unprotected portion. This technique usually results in a few houses being built on the piece of land, resulting in a low density. According to a study undertaken by Milder & Clark, 98.4% of the total land receives protection, the highest amongst the four conservation development types.\n\nThe second type identified by Milder is called conservation and limited development projects (CLDP). They are often carried out by land trusts, and occasionally by conservation-minded developers or landowners. Real estate is developed for sale on an open market, and the profit is used to finance conservation of the nearly land. Milder & Clark found that 93.5% of the total land area is protected under this type of development. Recent studies done on the effectiveness of CLDPs in protecting, restoring and managing threatened resources reveal that it is significantly more effective at doing so, in comparison to conservation subdivisions and conventional development.\n\nConservation subdivisions are the third and best-known type of conservation development. This is a development that \"sets aside a major portion of the site as conservation land\" and clusters housing on the remaining portion. The houses are built on lots smaller than usual, meaning the density of the development nears the maximum allowed by zoning. Unlike conservation and limited development projects, a homeowners' association manages the protected land. These associations may lack knowledge and have different goals regarding the lands' management, which may result in a less than ideally managed conservation. As a result of this and other factors, a study found that on average only 57.1% of the total land area is protected from development.\n\nThe final type identified by Milder is called conservation-oriented planned development projects. These are large-scale development projects found in suburban and exurban areas. The scale of the projects means large tracts of land can be protected. They typically have densities nearing the zoned maximum and feature of a mix of housing types and land uses. The resulting percentage of protected land is 71.3.\n\nThe biggest advantage of conservation development is that it can protect species and ecosystems, preventing further habitat fragmentation and loss. By surveying the land and identifying the primary conservation areas where ecosystems are most at risk, communities are created without huge disruption to the environment. Conservation development also provides for secondary conservation areas, which provide corridors for animals to hunt, mate and travel through.\n\nHowever, any development will have some impact on the land. But by studying it, there are ways in which this can be mitigated. A developer can have native vegetation planted. Wildlife friendly native species could be introduced, while invasive species are monitored and controlled. Stormwater management systems are also used to \"promote natural flow patterns and infiltration\", considered a very important factor in minimizing a development's impact.\n\nThere are several benefits from an economic standpoint. Conservation development allows developers to make themselves distinct in a competitive housing market. A developer can use an environmentally oriented marketing strategy, highlighting the benefits of the development to possible buyer with a green thumb. A final advantage of conservation development is that homes in these developments tend appreciate faster than their conventional counterparts.\n\nPejchar et al. and Arendt cite a number of economic benefits that accrue to municipalities through conservation development. They include fewer public costs on maintenance and infrastructure, protecting open space without losing tax revenues, and avoiding the loss of ecological services like landscape stabilization, flood control and clean water. A municipality also experiences a reduced demand for public green space since it has been provided free of charge by the development.\n\nLastly, there are a few social and recreational advantages to conservation development. With the smaller lots that accompany these houses, homeowners are likely to move into public green space and engage with their neighbours. Community events such as picnics or parties are more common. The protected green space also provides excellent recreational activities, such as hiking, jogging, or simply observing nature. It's hopeful that with this experience, people can reconnect with nature and develop a land ethic.\n\nThere are several drawbacks to conservation development. The first problem encountered is the perceived risk by both developers and homebuyers. In protecting sensitive areas, developers and homeowners see a risk in the possible elimination of desired sites to build homes. This might be a large enough risk to discourage developers. This could be a place for government intervention, which could provide tax breaks to developers building a development this way.\n\nConservation subdivisions and conservation-oriented planned development projects have been \"criticized for protecting land at too small a scale to provide meaningful conservation benefits, while simultaneously promoting \"leapfrog\" development\". This pushes sprawl further from the city and contributes to a more fragmented rural area.\n\nThis type of planning is becoming increasingly more relevant as \"land conversion for housing development is a leading cause of habitat loss and fragmentation\". With a loss or fragmentation of a species' habitat, it results in the endangerment of a species and pushes them towards premature extinction. Without biodiversity, we lose the many benefits we derive from it, including economic and ecological services, genetic information, and recreational pleasure, just to name a few. Land conversion also contributes to the reduction of agriculturally productive land, already shrinking due to climate change.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41108241", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41108241", "title": "Corruption in Lithuania", "text": "Corruption in Lithuania\n\nCorruption in Lithuania is examined on this page.\n\nAs of 2018, Lithuania remains one of the most corrupt EU countries. Anti-corruption laws are often missing or not being enforced. In surveys of Lithuanian business people, corruption is highlighted as the main issue prohibiting economic development and international competitiveness. A 2016 investigation by the Lithuanian government revealed that only 23% of Lithuanians would report corruption, and those who would not often believed that the corrupt individuals would not be punished. The same investigation from 2016 found that 73% of citizens experience identical or increased corruption levels compared to 5 years ago. Transparency International's 2017 Corruption Perception Index ranks the country 38th out of 180 countries, \n\nAn anti-corruption program was introduced by the Lithuanian government in 2011–2014.\n\nSociety's trust in the political and legal system is low overall; a survey in 2015 showed that 25% of citizens trusted the Lithuanian legal system and 10% trusted the national parliament, the Seimas. An international Gallup study found that 90% of Lithuanians believe that corruption is widespread in Lithuania's government.\nDespite a solid judicial base, Lithuania’s law enforcement is very weak according to independent assessors.\n\nA study by 15 min revealed that many lobbying organisations are using governmental real estate in prime locations at no cost.\nThere is very little insight in the sector, as there are no reporting or control regulations. Lobbying is widely spread and particularly common in sectors related to energy, pharmaceuticals, construction, public healthcare and alcohol. Illegal conduct such as bribery is common. The Lithuanian parliament has been unwilling to regulate lobbying.\n\nNepotism is a very visible problem in Lithuanian society. It exists in all levels of society and especially in the public sector. The Lithuanian language even has an expression about nepotism: \"Lietuva yra giminių kraštas\" (Lithuania is a country of relatives).\n\nAn investigation by \"Kauno diena\" found tens of municipality positions filled based on friendships or kinship. At least a quarter of employees of Marijampolė municipality have relatives filling local governmental jobs. There is little in the way of punishment for nepotism. In a 2016 study by STT, nearly half of public officials claimed that they have experienced pressure to employ somebody based on their political party membership. A politician of a small village bragged on her Facebook profile about ability to get jobs based on her political connections.\n\nLoreta Graužinienė, a former speaker of the parliament, gave her hairdresser's daughter a job in the parliament. Member of the parliament Greta Kildišienė employed her photographer in the parliament. When \"Lietuvos rytas\" investigated the issue, it turned out that the photographer was receiving a salary, but nobody in the parliament knew who she was, what she did, and had not seen her. Parliamentarian Kestutis Pukas employed his lawyer's wife as his advisor.\n\nThe vice minister of Ministry of Social Security and Labour arranged employments in Prienai public retirement home for many of her close relatives. A 15 min study discovered that one in six employees of Registrų centras are relatives. Another study by Delfi found that 34% of employees of Kauno regiono keliai are relatives. The entire construction and road public sector was highly influenced by nepotism. The internal audit of public road builder \"Automagistralė\" revealed that some of the work was done in order to benefit the CEO, e.g. to build his mother's house.\n\nNepotism bands are also prevalent between public entities and their partners and suppliers in the private sector, which increases risk for corruption in public procurement. The high percentage of unofficial and unannounced public procurement tenders is another contributing factor – the percentage of unannounced public procurement contracts in Lithuania is 5 times above the EU average.\nWhen Lithuanian Railways investigated a possible damage of 5 million euros through procurement contracts, they discovered that 40% of employees had close kinship bands to suppliers and partners. Suppliers and partners with kinship bands to Lithuanian Railways employees were consistently promoted and prioritized. Many of the public procurement scandals revolving about inflated prices involved nepotism – Šilainių hospital contracts, Kaunas prison contracts, the many scandals surrounding Gintautas Kėvišas family, etc.\n\nIn May 2016, the Masiulis alcohol box money case shook Lithuania. Eligijus Masiulis, leader of the Liberal Movement, a prominent political party in Lithuania, was arrested with 106 thousand euros in cash stuffed into an alcoholic beverage box. Bribery suspicions initiated a criminal investigation. MG Baltic, a Lithuanian investment firm, is suspected of giving the bribe. During a house search, another 250 thousand euros in cash were found in Masiulis apartment. In September 2017, the Liberal Movement and Labour Party were additionally named as suspects in the continuing investigation.\nAs of November 2017, no charges have been pressed against Masiulis.\n\nIn 2009, the municipality of Kaunas (led by mayor Andrius Kupčinskas) converted a shipping container into an outdoor toilet at a cost of 500,000 litas (around 150,000 euros). It also required 5,000 LTL (1,500 EUR) in monthly maintenance costs. At the same time when Kaunas \"golden toilet\" was built, Kėdainiai tennis club made a very similar, but more advanced solution for 4,500 EUR. Because of the inflated cost, Kaunas outdoor toilet was nicknamed \"golden toilet\". Despite the heavy expenditure, the \"golden toilet\" was dysfunctional and remained closed for years. It was subject of a lengthy anti-corruption investigation. The municipality even considered demolishing the building. In 2012, public servants involved in the toilet's procurement received prison sentences for recklessness, malfeasance, misuse of power and document falsifications. In 2014, all public servants suspected of corruption were cleared of charges and received compensations, which pushed the total construction cost to 352,000 euros.\n\n"}
{"id": "678778", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=678778", "title": "Customs officer", "text": "Customs officer\n\nA customs officer is a law enforcement agent who enforces customs laws, on behalf of a government.\n\n4,931 posts, of which nine are directorate officers, 3,804 are members of the Customs and Excise Department, 504 are Trade Controls Officers and 614 are staff of the General and Common Grades.\n\nHong Kong is one of the busiest container ports in the world. It handled 20.4 million TEUs (20-foot equivalent units) in 2003. Of these, 12.1 million TEUs were handled at the Kwai Chung Container Terminal. In 2003, 70,910 ocean-going ships and 365,190 coastal vessels entered and left Hong Kong.\n\nShips and vessels are subject to customs check. Cargoes are either examined on board sea freighters or after off-loading.\n\nIn 2004, a total of 8.6 million passengers arrived in Hong Kong from the Mainland and Macau by sea and by helicopters. They were processed at the China Ferry T\"erminal in Tsim Sha\" Tsui and the Hong Kong-Macau Ferry Terminal in Central. In addition, a daily average of 49 helicopter flights between Hong Kong and Macau are operated at the Hong Kong-Macau Ferry Terminal. Four Customs launches conduct maritime patrol in the territorial waters round the clock whereas four high-speed pursuit crafts and two shallow water patrol launches are employed to carry out interception at sea.\n\nThe C&ED is an active member of the World Customs Organization (WCO) and Asia Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC). It exchanges intelligence and works closely with overseas customs administrations and law enforcement agencies. The department has also entered bilateral Cooperative Arrangements with other customs authorities on administrative assistance. At the working level, the department and the China Customs have each established designated liaison officers to facilitate the exchange of intelligence through direct telephone hotlines.\n\n\nIn ancient usage a \"customer\" was a person to whom the right to collect customs in a particular port had been granted by the crown, often for a consideration in the form of a farm.\n\nOfficers working for HM Revenue and Customs (HMRC) and the UK Border Force collect a range of taxes and duties, control imported and exported goods, and prevent banned items from entering or leaving the United Kingdom.\n\nThe powers of customs officers (\"officers\") derive from the Customs and Excise Management Act 1979.\nOfficers are appointed by the Commissioners of Revenue and Customs, who are in turn appointed by the Queen. Failure to return a commission by an officer is an offence, as is imitating or obstructing an officer. Officers at ports are now officially part of the Border Force (Home Office) and as such have their powers conferred by the Borders, Citizenship and Immigration Act.\n\nAt any time, any officer may board and search:\n\nOfficers shall have free access to every part of any ship or aircraft at a port or aerodrome and of any vehicle as described above or is brought to a customs and excise station, and may:\nCarrying away an officer is an offence.\n\nOfficers may inspect aircraft and aerodromes, and prevent the departure of aircraft if they have not given their permission for them to depart. They may stop ships in UK territorial waters for the purposes of checking that they have been cleared to leave the UK.\n\nOfficers may examine any goods carried or to be carried in a coasting ships at any time while they are on board the ship, or at any place in the United Kingdom to which the goods have been brought for shipment in, or at which they have been unloaded from, the ship.\n\nOfficers may ask questions with respect to the baggage of people entering or leaving the United Kingdom and any thing contained therein or carried with them. They may inspect such baggage. Since the amendments to CEMA 1979 inserted by the Policing and Crime Act 2009 Officers may also require a person entering or leaving the United Kingdom to produce a Passport (or National ID Card when that may be used as an alternative) and answer questions about their journey. Any person entering the UK from outside the EU who fails to declare any thing or to produce any baggage or thing as required (unless it they are entitled to exemption from duty and tax by virtue of any order under section 13 of the Customs and Excise Duties (General Reliefs) Act 1979) commits an offence. Any thing chargeable with any duty or tax which is found concealed, or is not declared, and any thing which is being taken into or out of the UK contrary to any prohibition or restriction can be seized.\n\nOfficers on anti-smuggling duties may haul up, leave or moor vessels where they wish. They may also enter any part of the coast (or of the shore or bank of any river or creek), railway or aerodrome (or land adjoining any aerodrome), and over any land in Northern Ireland within the prescribed area. They may not, however, enter any garden or pleasure ground.\n\nAn officer may board or enter any ship, aircraft, vehicle, house or place and take such steps as are reasonably necessary to stop or prevent the sending of a signal or message connected with smuggling.\n\nOfficers may seize:\n\nOfficers may fire upon ships liable to forfeiture or examination where they have failed to bring to after the commander of any vessel in the service of Her Majesty has hoisted the proper ensign and caused a gun to be fired as a signal and chase has been given.\n\nOfficers may ask any person entering or leaving a free trade zone (as designated by the Treasury) questions with respect to any goods. That person shall, if required by the officer, produce those goods for examination at such place as the Commissioners may direct. Officers may board a vehicle at any time while it is entering or leaving a free trade zone search any part of it. Officers may, at any time, enter upon and inspect a free trade zone and all buildings and goods within the zone.\n\nOfficers may enter any premises, vehicles, vessels, aircraft, hovercraft or structures used in connection with an excise licence, and may inspect the premises and search for, examine and take account of any machinery, vehicles, vessels, utensils, goods or materials belonging to or in any way connected with that trade. Officers must be accompanied by a constable at night.\nIf the premises are those of a distiller, rectifier, compounder, brewer for sale, producer of wine, producer of made-wine, maker of cider or occupier of an excise warehouse, an officer, after having demanded admission into the premises and declared his name and business at the entrance may break open any door or window of the premises or break through any wall for the purpose of obtaining admission. Officers or people acting in their aid must be accompanied by a constable at night.\n\nIf an officer has reasonable grounds to suspect that any secret pipe or other means of conveyance, cock, vessel or utensil is kept or used by a distiller, rectifier, compounder, registered brewer, producer of wine, producer of made-wine and maker of cider, that officer may, at any time, break open any part of the premises of that trader and forcibly enter them and so far as is reasonably necessary break up the ground in or adjoining those premises or any wall thereof to search for that pipe or other means of conveyance, cock, vessel or utensil.\n\nIf the officer finds any such pipe or other form of conveyance leading to or from the trader's premises, he may enter any other premises from or into which it leads, and so far as is reasonably necessary break up any part of those other premises to trace its course, and may cut it away and turn any cock thereon, and examine whether it conveys or conceals any goods chargeable with a duty of excise, or any materials used in the manufacture of such goods, in such manner as to prevent a true account thereof from being taken. Every such pipe or other means of conveyance, cock, vessel or utensil as mentioned, and all goods chargeable with a duty of excise or materials for the manufacture of such goods found therein, may be seized. Officers must be accompanied by a constable at night, and damage caused by unsuccessful searches shall be made good by the Commissioners.\n\nOfficers may, at a reasonable time of day, enter any premises used for the conduct of a business. If they have reasonable cause to believe that any premises are used for gaming to which section 10 of the Finance Act 1997 (gaming duty) applies or are used in connection with the supply, importation or exportation of goods of a class or description chargeable with a duty of excise and that any such goods are on those premises, they may inspect those premises and any goods found on them. If they believe serious fraud is occurring in connection with such gaming, they may obtain a court warrant to enter the premises using reasonable force.\n\nOfficers may detain any person who has committed, or whom there are reasonable grounds to suspect of having committed, any offence for which he is liable to be detained under the customs and excise Acts at any time within 20 years from the date of the commission of the offence. Officers may seize any ship, aircraft, vehicle, animal, container (including any article of passengers’ baggage) or other thing which has been used for the carriage, handling, deposit or concealment of any thing that has become liable to forfeiture under the customs and excise Acts, or any other thing mixed, packed or found with the thing so liable. They may also seize all the tackle, apparel or furniture in any ship, aircraft, vehicle or animal that has become liable to forfeiture under the customs and excise Acts. Ships (but not their contents) of over 250 tons (but not hovercraft) are exempt unless the voyage itself was the offence that caused the seizure, or the ship was being chased.\n\nOfficers may \"examine and take account of\" any goods:\n\nOfficers may take samples of certain goods, enter premises with a writ of assistance or search warrant and stop and search vehicles or vessels where there are reasonable grounds to suspect that they are carrying or may be carrying any goods which are:\n\n\nOfficers may detain people to search their possessions for dutiable alcoholic liquor, or tobacco products, which are chargeable with any duty of excise, and liable to forfeiture under the customs and excise Acts.\n\nIf an officer has reasonable grounds to suspect that\n\n\nis carrying any article which is chargeable with any duty which has not been paid or secured or (if being imported or exported) of which any prohibition or restriction is in force, they may detain them and search them. This search may be a rub down, strip or intimate search, and must be approved by a superior officer or justice of the peace.\n\nIn Sri Lanka, as per the Customs Ordinance, enforcement is carried out by the Sri Lanka Customs headed by the Director General of Customs. They wear a all white (without insignia) or khaki (with insignia) uniform.\n\nIn the United States, a customs officer is a federal law enforcement officer working to enforce customs laws as well as over 400 laws for other federal agencies. Customs officers enforce these laws for every person or thing that enters or leaves U.S. Among their many functions are detecting and confiscating contraband, making sure that import duties are paid, and preventing those without legal authorization from entering the United States. In the past, American customs officers were part of the Department of the Treasury, the oldest law enforcement agency in the U.S., dating back to 1789. U.S. Customs (CBP) is the second highest revenue collector in the United States through fines, collection of duties, and illegal money seized; only the IRS collects more money for the federal government. Every day, on average, U.S. Customs arrests 135 suspects of different crimes, seizes 2,313 pounds of narcotics, confiscate 196 firearms, intercept 210 fraudulent documents, prevents 54 criminal aliens from entering the U.S., and detains one suspected terrorist. Customs officers need no probable cause to search, detain, or seize anything or any person. Today customs officers work for the Department of Homeland Security within U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) and U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) Office of Investigations. They are present at every international airport, seaport, and all land border crossings.\n\n"}
{"id": "21193987", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21193987", "title": "French Mexicans", "text": "French Mexicans\n\nFrench Mexicans (Spanish: \"franco-mexicanos\" or \"galo-mexicanos\", French: \"Franco-Mexicains\") are Mexican citizens of full or partial French ancestry. French nationals make up the second largest European immigrant group in Mexico, after Spaniards.\n\nFrench immigration to Mexico started after Mexico became an independent country in 1821, as foreign immigration was prohibited by Spanish authorities under the colonial regime. The first wave of French immigration to Mexico occurred in the 1830s, following the country's recognition by France, with the foundation of a French colony on the Coatzacoalcos River, in the state of Veracruz. In total, 668 settlers were brought from France to populate the colony. Most of them went back to France as the project of colonization failed, but some permanently settled in Mexico. In 1833, another colony was founded in the state of Veracruz as well, under the name of Jicaltepec. A second wave of French immigration came to Mexico at the end of the 1840s, during the California Gold Rush (at the time gold was discovered, California was still part of the Mexican territory). As a consequence, in 1849 French represented the second foreign community in Mexico after Spaniards. Between 1850 and 1914, Mexico received 11,000 French immigrants.\n\nAccording to the 2010 Census, French people form the second largest European emigrant community in Mexico after Spaniards, and eleventh overall immigrant community. There are around 9,500 French nationals registered in Mexico and about 6,000 to 7,000 Frenchmen unregistered. Two thirds of them are Mexicans of French ancestry holding double nationality. Many Mexicans of French descent live in cities and states such as Zacatecas, San Luis Potosí, Aguascalientes, Veracruz, Guanajuato, Guadalajara, Puebla, Queretaro and Mexico City.\n\nMost French Mexicans descend from immigrants and soldiers that settled in Mexico during the Second Mexican Empire, headed by Maximilian I of Mexico and masterminded by Emperor Napoleon III of France in the 1860s to create a Latin empire in the New World (indeed responsible for coining the term or Amérique latine, or 'Latin America'). Emperor Maximilian's consort, Carlota of Mexico, a Belgian princess, was a granddaughter of Louis-Philippe of France.\n\nThe largest wave of immigration from France to Mexico came from the city of Barcelonnette, in Alpes-de-Haute-Provence. Between 1850 and 1950, 5,000 to 6,000 inhabitants of the Ubaye Valley immigrated to Mexico. Many established textile businesses between Mexico and France. While 90% stayed in Mexico, some returned to Barcelonette, and from 1880 to 1930, built grand mansions called \"Maisons Mexicaines\" and left a mark upon the city. Today, there are 60,000 descendants of the \"Barcelonnettes\".\n\nIn 1833, 98 persons coming from Haute-Saône, Haute-Marne, Côte-d'Or and Yonne settled in a colony called Jicaltepec, in the state of Veracruz. In 1874, the community resettled on the other bank of the river, in San Rafael. From 1880 to 1900 the population of the colony grew from 800 to 1,000 inhabitants. There are now around 10,000 French Mexicans in the state of Veracruz.\n\nJean René Champion, a Mexican of French ancestry, was the first Free French Forces (\"Forces Françaises Libres\") officer to enter Paris on the day when the city was liberated from the Nazis on August 26, 1944.\n\nThe French introduced cultural traits adopted by the Mexican culture and may have helped coin the term “Mariachi”, though it is not certain. The word “Mariachi” may have originated during French Napoleonic rule in the 1860s since French settler families used the music during weddings(marriage). Clark attributes this to \"phonetic coincidence\" (Clark, 1996). An important culinary contribution was the bolillo, which is now widely used for the torta. The French also heavily influenced Mexico's pan dulce.\n\nThere are two French international schools in Mexico:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32231204", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32231204", "title": "Fuyug language", "text": "Fuyug language\n\nFuyug (Fuyuge, Fuyughe, Mafulu) is a language of Papua New Guinea spoken in the Central Province of the country. The language's 14,000 speakers live in 300 villages in the Goilala District.\n\nThe usual orthographic convention used to transcribe Fuyug is to use \"a\" for , \"e\" for , \"y\" for , and the corresponding IPA characters for the remaining phonemes.\n\nFuyug possesses five vowel phonemes.\n\nThe vowel is pronounced as the diphthong when word-final as well as before a word-final consonant. For example, \"ateg\" (\"truth\") is pronounced and \"ode\" (\"where\") as .\n\nAll vowels are nasalised before a nasal consonant, as in \"in\" (\"pandanus\") , \"ung\" (\"nose\") , \"em\" (\"house\") .\n\nFuyug has 14 consonant phonemes.\n\nThe voiceless plosive are aspirated in a word-final position and before : \"endanti\" (\"outside\") , \"oki\" (\"fire\") , \"eyak\" (\"return\") .\n\nThe nasal phoneme assimilates before a velar consonant becoming : \"yangos\" (\"rain\") .\n\nThe pronunciation of the liquid is in free variation between a lateral and a flap . However, with the exception of words of foreign origin where the word in the source language is written with an \"r\", this is represented in the orthography as \"l\".\n\nFuyug syllables come in the shape (C)V(C)(C). There cannot be more than two consonants adjacent to one another word-internally and the only final clusters permitted are \"mb\", \"nd\" and \"ng\". Within a word vowels may not follow one another.\n\nStress in Fuyug is predictable. Stress falls on the final syllable in mono- and disyllabic words and on the antepenult in words of three of four syllables. Affixes do not alter the stressed syllable.\n\nCertain suffixes (notably the illative \"-ti\") cause a change in the end of the word to which it is attached:\n\nFuyug has personal pronouns for three numbers (singular, dual, plural) but not gender distinction.\n\nThese pronouns can take four different suffixes: the genitive \"-l\" or \"-le\", the emphatic \"-ni\", the comitative \"-noy\" and the contrastive \"-v\".\n\nNumerals in Fuyug are very restricted, having only \"fidan\" (\"one\") and \"yovalo\" (\"two\"). The numbers 3, 4 and 5 are composed of 1 and 2:\n\nAfter five English numerals are used (numbers less than five often do so as well). The quantifier \"hukas\" (\"a lot\") is also used after three.\n"}
{"id": "34006408", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34006408", "title": "Georgians in Italy", "text": "Georgians in Italy\n\nEthnic Georgians in Italy number around 1,000 individuals, and mostly live in the major cities within the country.\n"}
{"id": "21787471", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21787471", "title": "Greece in the Balkan Wars", "text": "Greece in the Balkan Wars\n\nThe participation of Greece in the Balkan Wars of 1912–1913 is one of the most important episodes in modern Greek history, as it allowed the Greek state to almost double its size and achieve most of its present territorial size. It also served as a catalyst of political developments, as it brought to prominence two personalities, whose relationship would dominate the next decade and have long-lasting repercussions for Greece: the Prime Minister Eleftherios Venizelos, and the Army's commander-in-chief, the Crown Prince and later King, Constantine I.\n\nIn the First Balkan War, Greece was allied with Bulgaria, Serbia and Montenegro in the \"Balkan League\" against the Ottoman Empire. The war began on with the declaration of war by Montenegro, while Greece, Bulgaria and Serbia joined on . During this war, Greece fought on two fronts on land, and also shouldered the main naval effort of the Balkan allies. The initial principal thrust on land was by the Army of Thessaly, which succeeded in occupying much of Macedonia, including the strategically important port of Thessaloniki, the latter just hours ahead of a Bulgarian division; this would result in increased tension between the two allies in the coming months, and would be one of the causes of the Second Balkan War. Following the successful conclusion of operations in Macedonia, the Greek Army shifted its weight to the Epirus front, where, after a prolonged siege, the city of Ioannina fell, and the Greeks advanced into \"Northern Epirus\" (modern southern Albania). In the Aegean Sea, the Greek Navy took possession of all the Aegean islands except for the Italian-occupied Dodecanese, and fought off two attempts by the Ottoman Navy to sally forth from the Dardanelles.\n\nAlthough negotiations had started in London in December 1912, the war continued until , when the Treaty of London was finally signed. The treaty failed to satisfy any party involved, with the chief point of friction being the partition of Macedonia. In the face of Bulgarian claims, Serbia and Greece formed an alliance, and on the evening of , Bulgarian forces launched a surprise attack against their erstwhile allies. The Bulgarian attacks were soon contained, and pushed back. For Greece in particular, the battles of the Second Balkan War were very costly, as the Greek Army pushed its way into Bulgaria. Following the entry of Romania and the Ottoman Empire in the war, the Bulgarian position became hopeless, and an armistice was declared on 30 July. The war was concluded with the Treaty of Bucharest on 10 August 1913, which confirmed the Greek gains of Macedonia, Epirus (without Northern Epirus) and Crete.\n\nThe Balkan Wars must be regarded within the context of the rising Balkan nationalisms during the 19th century, which ran counter to the established Ottoman religion-based \"millet\" system. Inspired by the theories of nationalism as expounded in contemporary France, Germany and Italy, Balkan intellectual elites sought to awaken the national consciousness of their compatriots and advocated the creation of ethnically homogeneous nation-states. The first states to be formed out of the Ottoman Empire were Serbia (as an autonomous principality in 1804–1817) and Greece (as a fully independent kingdom in 1821–1832), in both cases following protracted wars. In both cases also, the new states formed only a fraction of the lands claimed as belonging to the respective nations. In the Greek case, fully three quarters of all Greeks still lived under Ottoman rule, and the drive to liberate their \"unredeemed\" brethren became known as the \"Megali Idea\", first articulated by the Greek Prime Minister Ioannis Kolettis before Parliament in 1844:\n\nKolettis thus united the nascent Greek state, which initially had hearkened back mostly to the glories of Classical Greece, with the vision of a restored Byzantine Empire. The process of restoring the Byzantine Empire as an integral part of Greek national consciousness, and consequently claiming its cultural and territorial heritage, was carried out by Greece's \"national historian\", Constantine Paparrigopoulos.\n\nLikewise, Serbia sought to revive the empire of Stefan Dusan, and the latecomers in the Balkan nation-building, the Bulgarians, the medieval Bulgarian Empires. Following the Treaty of San Stefano in 1877, this \"greater Bulgaria\" seemed to be realized, but was reduced drastically in the subsequent Treaty of Berlin, which also ceded Thessaly to Greece. This episode however made clear that the Balkan nationalisms were mutually competitive, and nowhere was this competition clearer than in the great region that lay between the three states, Macedonia.\n\nMacedonia was inhabited by a dense mixture of nationalities, including Greeks, Bulgarians, Serbs, Vlachs, Turks and other Balkan Muslims, Albanians, and featured even a large community of Sephardic Jews, who were the dominant element in the region's major city, Thessaloniki. All countries with minorities in the region tried to make progress at the expense of the others, funding schools and publishing ethnographic statistics and maps that supported their claims.\n\nIn the late 1890s, the antagonism for Macedonia, hitherto mostly confined to a cultural and propaganda war, entered a new phase, as the pro-Bulgarian Internal Macedonian Revolutionary Organization, founded in 1893, initiated an armed guerrilla campaign against the Ottomans. Following the Ilinden Uprising, the Bulgarian efforts were countered by Serb and Greek armed groups, in what is known as the \"Macedonian Struggle\" in Greece. These armed bands functioned as the military wing of national committees that carried out an intensive campaign of cultural assimilation amongst the rural populace, funding schools and orphanages, among other things. Sporadic fighting took place between Bulgarian \"komitadjis\", Greek \"andartes\" and Ottoman gendarmes. Looting, arson and assassinations were commonplace, as each side sought to intimidate the other's supporters. The clashes ended only with the outbreak of the Young Turk Revolution in 1908, which promised equality to all Ottoman subjects.\n\nThe Young Turk Revolution ushered a period of instability in the region. Seizing the opportunity, Bulgaria unilaterally declared its full independence, Austria-Hungary annexed Bosnia and Herzegovina, angering the Serbs and Russians, while Crete also declared its union (\"enosis\") with Greece, although the latter was not formalized. Initially, the liberal promises of the Young Turks caused much enthusiasm both inside the Empire and in the Balkan states, but they gradually adopted a policy of forced \"Ottomanisation\", which, coupled with the parallel rise of Albanian nationalism, threatened the interests of the other Balkan states. Italy too, in search of a colonial empire, took advantage of the turmoil in the Ottoman Empire, attacking Libya and seizing the Dodecanese islands during the Italo-Turkish War. The Italians promised to cede the Greek-inhabited Dodecanese islands to Greece, but in the end kept them. This aroused indignation in Greece. Coupled with Bulgarian aspirations for Macedonia and Austrian designs on Thessaloniki, it made clear that, if Greece did not want to be left out of the Ottoman spoils, it had to act. Nevertheless, the new Greek Prime Minister, Eleftherios Venizelos, hesitated to act alone, not only because of the bitter memories of the disastrous war of 1897, but also because the large Greek populations inside Ottoman territory might be exposed to reprisals.\n\nSpurred by the Ottomans' entanglement with Italy, Serbia and Bulgaria accelerated their negotiations for an alliance; however, their differences proved difficult to overcome, and only pressure from the Russian government, which was eager to regain ground in the Balkans, led to the signing of a treaty of alliance on . It was ostensibly directed against Austria-Hungary, but it also envisaged a partition of European Turkey: Albania and Kosovo to Serbia, Thrace to Bulgaria; southern Macedonia would be received by Bulgaria, while its northern part would be partitioned between the two under the arbitration of the Russian Tsar. Feelers about a rapprochement and an alliance had also been put forward to Bulgaria by Venizelos in early 1911, but not until after the conclusion of the Serbian-Bulgarian pact did negotiations commence in earnest. Bulgaria, the \"Prussia of the Balkans\", had the region's strongest army, and in light of the 1897 debacle, the Greek army was held in low esteem. But Greece could offer its navy, which alone could prevent Ottoman reinforcements from being transported from Asia directly to the European fronts. As the Greek ambassador to Sofia noted: \"Greece can provide 600,000 men for the war effort. 200,000 men in the field, and the fleet will be able to stop 400,000 men being landed by Turkey between Salonica and Gallipoli.\" A treaty of defensive alliance was thus signed at Sofia on . Unlike the treaty with Serbia, no provisions were made for the division of territory, primarily because the Bulgarians assumed that their army would seize most of its aims before the Greeks got there.\n\nThe various Balkan armies shared many similarities: they were organized along Western European lines, with a General Staff (except for Montenegro) staffed by officers educated abroad, a divisional structure, and were equipped with European arms, chiefly of French or German origin. Their backbone was the infantry, composed mostly of conscripted peasants, while their officers hailed chiefly from the middle classes. Among the Balkan nations, only Greece possessed a considerable navy, while Bulgaria was limited to a few torpedo boats to guard its Black Sea coast.\n\nGreece had a peacetime army of ca. 25,000 men, which, upon mobilization on grew to an overall strength of 110,000 men. This was divided into two major armies: the Army of Thessaly (Στρατός Θεσσαλίας), commanded by the Crown Prince Constantine, which would strike in the direction of Macedonia, and the Army of Epirus (Στρατός Ηπείρου) under Lieutenant General Konstantinos Sapountzakis, which would strike in the direction of Epirus. The Army of Thessaly comprised seven infantry divisions, four independent \"Evzones\" battalions, a cavalry brigade and various support units, as well as four Farman aircraft, a total of 100,000 men, 70 machine guns and 120 artillery pieces, with 80,000 in the field. The Army of Epirus was of divisional strength, being composed of 8 infantry and one \"Evzones\" battalions, one cavalry company and 24 field guns, with a total of ca. 10,000 men. It was later reinforced by a Cretan volunteer regiment and by a corps of \"Garibaldini\" volunteers led by Giuseppe Garibaldi II, reaching some 13,000 men.\n\nGreek infantry divisions fielded three infantry regiments, one or two artillery battalions, and a cavalry-half-company for reconnaissance duties. Recently reorganized by a French military mission, the army was equipped with the Mannlicher–Schönauer rifle, and French artillery guns, chiefly the Canon de 75 modèle 1897 and the Schneider-Danglis mountain gun.\n\nOn the other side of the hill, the Ottomans, reorganized by a German military mission, had won a clear victory over Greece back in 1897. Following the Young Turk Revolution however, the Ottoman army became involved in politics to the detriment of its efficiency.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6395686", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6395686", "title": "Human rights in Oman", "text": "Human rights in Oman\n\nOman is an absolute monarchy in which all legislative, executive, and judiciary power ultimately rests in the hands of the hereditary sultan, and in which the system of laws is based firmly on Islamic sharia. Although a report by the U.S. State Department, based on conditions in 2010, summed up the human rights situation in the country by asserting that the government “generally respected the human rights of its citizens,” the details in the report itself strongly indicate otherwise, and several international human-rights groups have described the state of human rights in Oman in highly critical terms. According to a report, on 20 December 2015, poet and television producer Nasser al-Badri was summoned by the Police Special Section and detained for 12 days without charge and without trial. The report added that the Omani Observatory for Human Rights said that al-Badri was detained because of tweets he posted criticising Sultan Qaboos and the state of the country’s economy. Article 41 of Oman’s statute (constitution) criminalizes any criticism of the sultan, stating that the sultan’s ‘person is inviolable and must be respected and his orders must be obeyed’.\n\nFor example, Freedom House has routinely rated the country “Not Free” and an official of Human Rights Watch, in a December 2012 overview of Oman and “five other smaller Gulf states,” stated: “Human rights conditions...are quite poor overall...There is little respect for core civil and political rights such as freedom of expression, assembly and association. Peaceful dissent typically faces harsh repression. The administration of justice is highly personalised, with limited due process protections, especially in political and security-related cases.” A 2012 report by Bertelsmann Stiftung declared that while “Oman’s legal code theoretically protects civil liberties and personal freedoms, both are regularly ignored by the regime. Oman, therefore, cannot be considered free.”\n\nOn the other hand, Middle East Concern, in a 2011 report, claimed that Oman's recent human-rights record had been generally good, citing adherence to proper arrest and judicial procedures and acceptable prison conditions, even as it acknowledged the limits on freedom of expression and assembly, academic freedom, and other restrictions.\n\nIn reaction to growing public demonstrations by protesters demanding greater freedom and human rights, Oman's already severe constraints on freedom of speech, assembly, and association have been tightened even further since early 2011.\n\nThe practice of torture is widespread in Oman state penal institutions and has become the state's typical reaction to independent political expression. Torture methods in use in Oman include mock execution, beating, hooding, solitary confinement, subjection to extremes of temperature and to constant noise, abuse and humiliation. There have been numerous reports of torture and other inhumane forms of punishment perpetrated by Omani security forces on protesters and detainees. Several prisoners detained in 2012 complained of sleep deprivation, extreme temperatures, and solitary confinement. Omani authorities kept Sultan al-Saadi in solitary confinement, denied him access to his lawyer and family, forced him to wear a black bag over his head whenever he left his cell, including when using the restroom, and told him his family had “forsaken” him and asked for him to be imprisoned.\n\nIn August 2014, The Omani writer and human rights defender , the founder and editor-in-chief of the e-magazine Mowatin “Citizen”, disappeared after going to the police station in the Al-Qurum district of Muscat. His whereabouts and condition remain unknown. The Omani government denies his detention and refuses to disclose information about his whereabouts. On 17 July 2015 Al Fazari left Oman seeking for a political asylum in UK after a travel ban was issued against him without providing any reasons and his official documents including his national ID and passport were confiscated more than 8 months. There were more reports of politically motivated disappearances in the country. In 2012, armed security forces arrested Sultan al-Saadi, a social media activist. According to reports, authorities detained him at an unknown location for one month for comments he posted online critical of the government. Authorities previously arrested al-Saadi in 2011 for participating in protests and again in 2012 for posting comments online deemed insulting to Sultan Qaboos. In May 2012 security forces detained Ismael al-Meqbali, Habiba al-Hinai, and Yaqoub al-Kharusi, human rights activists who were visiting striking oil workers. Authorities released al-Hinai and al-Kharusi shortly after their detention but did not inform al-Meqbali’s friends and family of his whereabouts for weeks. Authorities pardoned al-Meqbali in March. In December 2013, a Yemeni national disappeared in Oman after he was arrested at a checkpoint in Dhofar Governorate. Omani authorities refuse to acknowledge his detention. His whereabouts and condition remain unknown.\n\nIn January 2014, Omani intelligence agents arrested a Bahraini actor and handed him over to the Bahraini authorities on the same day of his arrest. The actor has been subjected to a forced disappearance, his whereabouts and condition remain unknown.\n\nAccording to Amnesty International annual report 2016, The authorities continued restricting freedom of expression. Many journalists and activists were arrested under penal code provisions which criminalize insulting the Sultan. In March 2015, Talib al-Saeedi, online activist, was arrested for three weeks without charge. Days after, a court sentenced Saeed al-Daroodi, blogger, to one year in prison and a fine; convicting him of “trying to overthrow the government” and “spreading hate”.\n\nThe National Human Rights Commission, established in 2008, is not independent from the regime. It is chaired by the former deputy inspector general of Police and Customs and its members are appointed by royal decree. In June 2012, one of its members requested that she be relieved of her duties because she disagreed with a statement made by the Commission justifying the arrest of intellectuals and bloggers and the restriction of freedom of expression in the name of respect for “the principles of religion and customs of the country”.\n\nThe Omani government is a monarchy. The Sultan, Qaboos bin Said al Said is the self-appointed leader of the country since 1970 and serves as the country's chief of state and head of government. The monarchy is hereditary and the monarch's cabinet is appointed by himself. \nCitizens of Oman can vote for members of the Parliament. The members are elected by popular vote to serve four-year terms. The Consultative Assembly of Oman enjoys legislative and audit powers. The country has universal suffrage for people 21 years of age and older; however, members of the military and security forces are not allowed to vote.\n\nThe Basic Law forbids discrimination founded on “gender, origin, color, language, religion, sect, domicile, or social status.” Oman's government does not commit arbitrary killings, engineer “disappearances,” or engage in torture or other cruel punishments. Laws against corruption are effectively enforced. The public has no access to official information. Since 2006, citizens of Gulf Cooperation Council countries are permitted to own property in Oman; non-GCC citizens can only own tourist properties.\n\nAlthough Islam is Oman's state religion, the Basic Law guarantees the “freedom to practice religious rites in accordance with recognized customs...provided that it does not disrupt public order or conflict with accepted standards of behavior.” Freedom House declared in 2005 that “Oman is, overall, a religiously tolerant society,” noting that while non-Muslims “are able to practice their religious rites freely, they are required to register with the government and may not proselytize or publish religious materials.” The U.S. State Department's International Religious Freedom Report for 2011 notes that non-Muslim communities in Oman “are allowed to practice their beliefs without interference only on land specifically donated by the sultan for the purpose of collective worship.” While “gatherings of a religious nature are not allowed in private homes or in any location other than government-approved houses of worship,” Oman's government “has not actively enforced the prohibition.”\n\nFreedom of movement within Oman and repatriation are permitted, but it can be difficult to obtain permission to travel abroad or emigrate. Only since 2010 have married women been able to secure passports without their husbands' consent. Citizens require government permission to marry foreigners unless the latter are citizens of Gulf Cooperation Council countries. Permission is not always granted. If a citizen marries a foreigner abroad without approval, the foreign spouse may be denied entry into Oman and any children of the marriage may be denied citizenship of Oman. \nThere is limited freedom of speech and of the press, and self-censorship by journalists and writers is standard practice. Criticizing the sultan is illegal, as are many other kinds of expression, including those that are viewed as offending personal dignity or violating public order. “The penal code prescribes a prison sentence and fine for anyone who publicly blasphemes God or His prophets, commits an affront to religious groups by spoken or written word, or breaches the peace of a lawful religious gathering,” according to a U.S. State Department report issued in 2012. The contents of all print media are subject to official pre-publication review. As of 2010, three prominent authors were prohibited from speaking in public. In the same year, officials banned the display of a number of historical and literary works at the Muscat International Book Fair.\n\nThe country's eight privately owned newspapers generally follow a pro-government line, and the government's many newspapers, magazines, and radio and TV stations are consistently pro-government. Oman's four private radio and TV stations, for which Oman first issued licenses in October 2005, also tend to hew to a pro-government line. Inhabitants of Oman are allowed to watch satellite TV broadcasts from other countries, and this, along with a rapid increase in Internet penetration (from 9% in 2008 to over 40% in 2010) has “allowed the emergence of social, economic and even political debates.”\n\nOman's government monitors cell-phone conversations, e-mail exchanges, and Internet chat rooms, and restricts free speech on the Internet, blocking access to many websites and posting notices on other sites warning against criticism of the sultan or other officials. In the same way, the government limits the freedom of academics to discuss or write about certain matters, with faculty members engaging in systematic self-censorship. University professors are prohibited from writing about or discussing local politics, and are subject to dismissal if they violate this rule.\n\nTo form an association requires a permit, which can take years to obtain; in many cases, the government has denied permits. For an association to accept international funding without government approval is a crime punishable by up to six months in prison. All public cultural events and any kind of public meeting must be approved by the government. Religious gatherings are generally permitted, while \npolitical gatherings are illegal, as are political parties. Oman first allowed political posters, banners, and TV and newspaper ads in 2007.\n\nIn 2011, under the influence of the so-called Arab Spring, the number of persons publicly demonstrating for political reform and for jobs increased significantly, and in response Oman tightened its already severe limits on free speech, with police employing excessive force, arresting hundreds, and causing deaths and injuries. Sultan Qaboos pardoned 234 people who had committed “crimes of crowding in the streets.” The Press and Publications Law was made harsher, with the penalty for the publication of certain types of materials set at up to two years in prison plus a fine. Under the law, the editor-in-chief of the \"Azzamn\" newspaper, one of his reporters, and a source working for the Ministry of Justice were sentenced to five months in prison over an article that was deemed insulting to the Minister of Justice.\n\nIn the wake of the nationwide demonstrations of 2011, the government promised to institute reforms. Its failure to do so led to further protests, and on May 31, 2012, it began arresting writers and bloggers who had criticized its inaction. On June 11, it took into custody at least 22 persons who publicly protested these arrests. On July 9 and 16, several individuals were found guilty of “defaming the sultan,” a charge stemming at least in part from Facebook postings and Twitter tweets. Human Rights Watch criticized these prosecutions. “Like people throughout the region, Omanis are sick and tired of having no say in the governance of their country,” said Nadim Houry of HRW. “Rather than listening to legitimate demands and peaceful criticism, Omani authorities are jailing people who speak out.”\n\nIn 2012, an appeals court affirmed the conviction of 29 human-rights activists on such charges as insulting the sultan and of unlawful assembly, and all but one of them began serving prison sentences. Amnesty International stated its belief “that many, if not all, of those imprisoned are held solely for peacefully exercising their right to freedom of expression or assembly and are therefore prisoners of conscience,” and called on Oman to immediately release all of those being “held simply for peacefully exercising their right to freedom of expression or assembly.” In September 2012, Freedom House criticized the “escalating efforts by the government to tighten its control online and offline following Arab Spring-inspired unrest,” and Front Line Defenders condemned “the ongoing judicial harassment of...human rights defenders and peaceful protesters” and expressed its view that this harassment “is directly related to their legitimate activities in the defense of human rights.”\n\nOman is engaged in pervasive Internet filtering in the social area, substantial filtering in Internet tools, selective filtering in political, and there is no evidence of filtering in the conflict/security area according to a report by the OpenNet Initiative in August 2009.\n\nOman engages in extensive filtering of pornographic Web sites, gay and lesbian content, content that is critical of Islam, content about illegal drugs, and anonymizer sites used to circumvent blocking. There is no evidence of technical filtering of political content, but laws and regulations restrict free expression online and encourage self-censorship.\n\nHuman Rights Watch reported in June 2012 that according to Omani human-rights activists, the government had been increasingly monitoring their online activity; one of the activists said “that authorities hacked into his email account and deleted all his contacts. Others alleged that authorities hacked the Facebook page of the Omani Group for Human Rights and deleted all the postings.”\n\nThe plight of domestic workers in Oman is a taboo subject. In 2011, the Philippines government determined that out of all the countries in the Middle East, only Oman and Israel qualify as safe for Filipino migrants. In 2012, it was reported that every 6 days, an Indian migrant in Oman commits suicide. There has been a campaign urging authorities to check the migrant suicide rate. In the 2014 Global Slavery Index, Oman is ranked #45 due to 26,000 people in slavery.\n\nThe descendants of servant tribes and slaves are victims of widespread discrimination. Oman was one of the last countries to abolish slavery in 1970.\n\nOmani citizens need government permission to marry foreigners. The Ministry of Interior requires Omani citizens to obtain permission to marry foreigners (except nationals of GCC countries); permission is not automatically granted. Citizen marriage to a foreigner abroad without ministry approval may result in denial of entry for the foreign spouse at the border and preclude children from claiming citizenship rights. It also may result in a bar from government employment and a fine of 2,000 rials ($5,200).\n\nThere are no reports of child prostitution in Oman. Child labor is not a problem. In 2003, the government raised the minimum age to work from 13 to 15 years of age.\n\nA child born in Oman inherits citizenship from the biological father. Primary-school education is free but not compulsory. Oman is not a party to the 1980 Hague Convention on the Civil Aspects of International Child Abduction.\n\nOman is a party to the UN Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women and has a government committee that monitors compliance. Although discrimination against women is technically prohibited, with women officially enjoying equality in regard to such matters as employment rights, cultural traditions still reject equality of the sexes, and sharia law continues to enshrine discrimination in practice. (However, the 2012 report by the Bertelsmann Stifting says that “the government passed a law in 2008 stipulating that men’s and women’s legal testimonies should be considered equal.”) Since 2008, women have enjoyed the same property ownership rights as men, and as of 2010, women can marry without parental consent. In accordance with sharia, however, Muslim women cannot marry non-Muslim men, even though Muslim men can marry non-Muslim women.\n\nRape is punishable by up to 15 years in prison, and for cultural and social reasons many rapes probably go unreported. Domestic violence complaints are generally handled by authorities. Female genital mutilation is permitted and widely accepted and practiced, although doctors are not allowed to perform the procedure in health-care facilities. Women receive decent medical treatment, including prenatal and postnatal care.\n\nIn 2005, Freedom House noted that Oman's women had “made steady progress” over the preceding decade, with women constituting a majority of university students level “despite gender-discriminatory practices in the enrollment process” and making up an “estimated one-third of all civil servants.” In 2012, Bertelsmann Stiftung described the status of women in Oman as follows: “Oman has been successful in enhancing the status of women, who – at least in theory – have the same opportunities as men in public and private jobs. Oman’s government has a deliberate policy of inclusiveness regarding all segments of the population. In reality, however, women...still face high barriers to participation in formal economic activities.”\n\nIn 2010, Oman celebrated National Oman Women's Day for the first time.\n\nThe descendants of servant tribes and of African slaves who are considered to be of non-Arab blood are the objects of widespread discrimination. Freedom House noted in 2016 that \"The 1996 basic law banned discrimination on the basis of sex, religion, ethnicity, and social class. However, Omani law does not protect noncitizens from discrimination.” About a quarter of Omani residents “are left without legal protections.” In 2003, Human Rights Watch asked Sultan Qaboos to ratify the International Convention on the Protection of the Rights of all Migrant Workers and Members of their Families.\n\nDisabled people suffer discrimination in Oman. A U.S. State Department report issued in 2012 states that under Omani law “all buildings must have access for disabled individuals,” but a 2011 State Department report makes a distinction, noting that while new buildings are required to be made handicapped-accessible, old buildings are not retrofitted. Although a law requires large private employers to give at least 2 percent of jobs to disabled people, this requirement is not consistently enforced. There is no law requiring equal educational opportunities for disabled persons. The Ministry of Social Development is charged with protecting disabled people's rights.\n\nThere is considerable discrimination against LGBT persons, and individuals engaging in homosexual conduct are subject to prosecution and can be imprisoned for up to three years. In 2009, nine persons were prosecuted for sodomy. Any discussion whatsoever of sexual orientation in Oman is taboo; LGBT content on the Internet is censored.\n\nIn 2013, it was announced that all Gulf Cooperative Countries had agreed to establish some form of, yet unknown, testing in order to ban gay foreigners from entering any of the countries.\n\nOman has a system in place for helping refugees and asylum seekers, but owing to its tight border controls there are few such persons asking for help. Oman is not a party to the 1951 UN Convention relating to the Status of Refugees or its 1967 Protocol, and does not protect persons from being returned to countries where they are in danger. In 2010 alone, hundreds of individuals from nearby countries who tried to enter Oman illegally were returned to their homelands.\n\nOman, whose current population of 3.3 million includes a million or so non-citizens, has been an independent sultanate since 1650 and has been governed by the Al Bu Sa'id family since the 18th century. Its ruler since 1970 is Sultan Qaboos al-Said, who attained power by overthrowing his father, and who “has followed a path of careful and gradual development and modernization,” eliminating many of the “harsh restrictions on various personal freedoms” that had been enforced under his father's regime and granting amnesty to many of its opponents.\n\nIn 1996, “Sultan Qaboos issued a royal decree promulgating the basic law, which is considered to be Oman’s constitution.” It guaranteed citizens' basic civil rights and “established a bicameral legislature, the Council of Oman, consisting of an upper chamber, the State Council (Majlis al-Dawla), the 75 members of which are appointed by the sultan and have only advisory powers, and a lower chamber, the Consultative Council (Majlis al-Shura),” which is elected by the people. Both chambers, however, are ultimately advisory in nature, with sole legislative, executive, and judicial power still resting entirely in the hands of the sultan.\n\nAccording to the United States State Department in 2011, Omani law prohibits arbitrary arrest and detention, and the government generally observed these prohibitions. The police academy program includes training in human rights. Police do not have to secure a warrant before taking a suspect into custody, but within 24 hours of such an action the public prosecutor must either make a formal arrest or release the individual, who cannot be held in pretrial detention without a court order. According to the United States State Department in 2011, authorities respected these rights in practice, although foreigners who are suspected of being in Oman illegally are occasionally held without charge until their immigration status can be ascertained. There is a bail system, and defendants can choose their own lawyers, or be provided with public defenders if necessary.\n\nHuman Rights Watch issued on 2016, that an Omani court sentenced three journalists to prison and ordered the permanent closure of their newspaper, over an article that alleged corruption in the judiciary. The court sentenced two of them to three years in prison and ordered them to pay a fine of 3,000 Omani Rails in charge of “disturbing public order,” “misusing the internet,” and “publishing details of a civil case\". These broad restrictions on reporting appear to violate international standards of freedom of expression, including the right to criticize government officials.\n\nOman's courts are not guided by sharia law. Although the judiciary generally acts independently, the sultan has the power to overrule decisions and grant pardons. Defendants are presumed innocent. There are no juries. Defendants enjoy all the usual rights, including the right to present evidence and appeal decisions, although some judges ask that the fathers or husbands of female defendants accompany them to the courtroom.\n\nAs a rule, prisons meet international standards. Prisoners are allowed to receive visitors and practice their religion. Prison conditions are monitored, and complaints of abuse are addressed by the national human-rights commission.\n\nGovernment employees and domestic workers cannot join unions, but most others can. The government must be notified a month in advance of union meetings. The right to strike is subject to several conditions, one of them being that employers must be informed of planned strikes three weeks in advance. Collective bargaining is allowed. Forced labor is illegal, although some foreigners are apparently engaged in involuntary servitude. Children under 15 are not allowed to work, and there are limits on work by those under 18, although some children work in small family businesses. There is a low minimum wage that does not apply in a number of sectors, and there are various restrictions on working conditions that are not uniformly enforced. Occupational health and safety codes are generally enforced, however.\n\nFebruary 2017, Human Rights Watch released a report about the violation of the right of speech and freedom of movement in Oman. In June 2012, Al-Fazari, the founder and editor-in-chief of Mowatin magazine was arrested by Omani authorities, and held in a solitary confinement. The charges included “gathering with the intent of rioting” and “insulting the Sultan\", yet he was freed, then. On August 30, 2014, he was arrested again, held incommunicado for six days, and then released without charges. In spite of being banned from travelling abroad, he left the country seeking asylum in the United Kingdom on July 17. As a result, his brother, Mahmoud Al-Fazari, was arrested and detained for three weeks but then released without charges as well as his wife, his 3-year-old daughter and his 1-year-old son were prevented going out to the united Arab Emirate.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24376358", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24376358", "title": "Hungarian Central Statistical Office", "text": "Hungarian Central Statistical Office\n\nThe Hungarian Central Statistical Office (HSCO; ) is a quango responsible for collecting, processing and publishing statistics about Hungary, its economy, and its inhabitants. The office provides details for parliamentary and administrative offices, local councils and academia, financial institutions, the public at large and the media.\n\n\nLegal reference: KSH - Rules on Statistics\n\n\nThe organisation is also covered by European Union regulation.\n\nThere are around 1,050 people employed at the central office, with a further 450 at regional offices.\n\nThe head of the Office is called the President, and leads a number of organizational units each headed by a Deputy President and having several departments:\n\n\nDemographics of Hungary\n"}
{"id": "32935327", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32935327", "title": "Indo-Haitians", "text": "Indo-Haitians\n\nIndo-Haitians are Haitians of Indian ancestry who immigrated to or born in Haiti. As of 2011, there are about 10,000 people of East Indian or ancestry from the Indian subcontinent living in Haiti. The overwhelming majority of them being mixed with other African and European ancestries. Their descendants are known as Marabous.\n\nThe Indian community in Haiti consists mainly of professionals, businessmen, and volunteers from the congregation of the Sisters of Charity. The community is made up of immigrants from India as well as other Caribbean islands such as Martinique and Guadeloupe. Indo Caribbean immigrants from other Caribbean islands have intermarried with other Haitian communities. Their descendants are known as Marabous. There is also an influx of Haitian children born to Sri Lankan Tamil fathers and black Haitian mothers.\nDuring the 2010 Haiti earthquake, many members of the Indian community have lost their homes had appealed to the Indian government to provide them financial assistance to rebuild their lives. There were about 40 Indian families scattered around the country at the time, some of whom had been living with the FPU for several days. Those who were wishing to return to India found themselves unable to do so as they couldn't get into neighbouring Dominican Republic, which is the only way out of there since there were no direct commercial flights in and out of Haiti.\n\n"}
{"id": "42839380", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42839380", "title": "International Polar Bear Day", "text": "International Polar Bear Day\n\nInternational Polar Bear Day is an annual event celebrated every February 27 to raise awareness about the conservation status of the polar bear.\n\nInternational Polar Bear Day is organized by Polar Bears International to raise awareness about the impact of global warming and reduced sea ice on polar bear populations. The day encourages people to find ways to reduce their carbon output, such as by turning down their thermostat or driving less. The day has also been used to encourage the installation of energy efficient insulation in houses.\n\nMany zoos use the day to educate about polar bear conservation and to encourage visitation to polar bear exhibits. It has also had some political impact. Jack Shapiro, the deputy climate campaign manager under American president Barack Obama, used the day to argue for the need for Congressional action on the issue of climate change. The University of Saskatchewan announced in 2014 that it would be turning its thermostats up two degrees in the summer and down two degrees Celsius in the winter to honor International Polar Bear Day. The decision is expected to reduce the university's carbon emissions by two-thousand tons and save the university over two-hundred thousand dollars per year.\n"}
{"id": "48159223", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48159223", "title": "Katib", "text": "Katib\n\nA kâtib is a writer, scribe, or secretary in the Arabic-speaking world, Persian World, and other Islamic areas as far as India. Duties comprised reading and writing correspondence, issue instructions at the command of the person in charge and archiving documentation.\n\nThe word comes probably from Arabic kitāb (book), and perhaps imported from the Northern Aramaic neighbors of the Arabs. It is a pre-Islamic concept, encountered in the work of ancient Arab poets. The art of writing, although present in all part of Arabia, was apparently accomplishment of the few. Among the Companions of Medina, about ten are mentioned as \"kâtibs\". With the embrace of Islam, the office of kâtib became a post of great honor. By this time, on the model of the Persian chancellery, a complicated system of government offices had developed, each branch of governmental, religious, civic, or military entity had its own kâtib. Thus, the term became widely encountered in conjunction with other words in order to derive a more specific secretary position, i.e. kâtib dīwān - secretary in the financial bureaus, kâtib al-sirr - chancellery secretary or chief-secretary, kâtib al-djaysh - secretary of the army, and so on.\n\nIt was used in the Ottoman Empire with the same meaning, i.e. \"Kiaya Katibi\" - private secretary of the Kiaya bey, and thus transferred to other languages, i.e. \"qatib\", \"qatip\" in Albanian.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18564742", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18564742", "title": "Koreans in Guatemala", "text": "Koreans in Guatemala\n\nKoreans in Guatemala form one of the newest and fastest-growing Korean diaspora communities in Latin America.\n\nThe first migrants from South Korea to Guatemala did not arrive in the country until 1985, more than two decades after South Korean mass migration to Latin America began. As recently as 1997, only 2,051 Koreans resided in the country, but by 2005, that number had almost quintupled to 9,944, surpassing the older community of Koreans in Paraguay and giving Guatemala the fourth-largest Korean population in the region, behind Brazil, Argentina, and Mexico. From 2005 to 2009, the number of Koreans in the country remained roughly stable at 9,921 persons. However, in the following two years the number of South Korean nationals in the country grew by 30%, reaching 12,918 persons. Among them 3,101 were permanent residents, 52 were international students, and 9,765 had other kinds of visas. The population exhibits gender imbalance, with 7,409 women (57%) compared to 5,509 men (43%), a sex ratio of 134 to 100. Almost all live in Guatemala City, with only 38 recorded as living in Antigua or other cities.\n\nThe earliest migrants were involved in the textiles industry, setting up factories to produce garments for export to the United States market. From 1988 to 1991, fifty South Korean-owned \"maquilas\" opened in Guatemala. The value of their exports, at $150 million per year, comprised half of all Guatemalan apparel exports. As of 2001, there were thirty-three Korean restaurants in the capital; other Korean residents operate karaoke bars, mini-supermarkets, book cafes, and clothing stores. In some cases, wives and children remain in Guatemala doing business while their husbands return to Korea. Products from South Korean-owned businesses are reported to make up 10% of Guatemala's total exports.\n\nGuatemalans perceive the Korean community as fairly insular and isolated. South Korean media portray the Korean community in Guatemala as living in constant fear of their lives due to endemic violence in the country, a portrayal which the Guatemalan embassy in Seoul strongly disputes. According to the Korean embassy, twenty-four Koreans have become the victims of violent crime in Guatemala between 2003 and 2008. In March 2009, a pair of South Korean businessmen Sang Park and Bang Mal-sum were murdered in a suburb of the capital. Because they are involved in international business and thus believed to be rich, South Koreans are perceived by the general population as attractive targets for kidnapping, especially in comparison to Americans. In total in 13 months up to February 2010 there were eight cases of murders of South Koreans, along with numerous kidnappings. In February 2010, two South Koreans who ran an illegal casino were arrested for the abduction and murder of Suong Kim, another South Korean who had won money in the casino.\n\nThere is an Association of Koreans in Guatemala (Asociación de Coreanos en Guatemala), headed by Lim Byung-yeol. The association has organised a variety of activities, including a sports day at Parque la Democracia in May 2011. That year, the association also began conducting a statistical survey of the community. There is also a Korean School of Guatemala (Colegio Coreano de Guatemala, 과테말라 한글학교), which had 29 teachers and 170 students . Octavio Kang, a graduate of the Hankuk University of Foreign Studies, publishes a newspaper aimed at the community; about three-tenths of its articles are about Guatemala and the Korean community there, with the rest concerning happenings in South Korea. However, it has only 350 subscribers.\n\n"}
{"id": "415376", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=415376", "title": "Kurdish music", "text": "Kurdish music\n\nKurdish music ( Mûzîka Kurdî) refers to music performed in Kurdish language.\n\nTraditionally, there are three types of Kurdish Classical performers - storytellers (, \"çîrokbêj\"), minstrels (, \"stranbêj\") and bards (). There was no specific music related to the Kurdish princely courts, and instead, music performed in night gatherings (, \"şevbihêrk\") is considered classical. Several musical forms are found in this genre. Many songs are epic in nature, such as the popular \"Lawik\"s which are heroic ballads recounting the tales of Kurdish heroes such as Saladin. \"Heyran\"s are love ballads usually expressing the melancholy of separation and unfulfilled love. \"Lawje\" is a form of religious music and \"Payizok\"s are songs performed specifically in autumn.\nLove songs, dance music, wedding and other celebratory songs (, \"dîlok/narînk\" and \"bend\"), erotic poetry and work songs are also popular.\n\nAnother style of singing that originated as practice to recite hymns in both Zoroastrian and Islamic Sufi faiths is Siya Cheman. This style is practiced mostly in the mountainous subregion of Hewraman in the Hewrami dialect. However, some modern artists, have adopted the style and blended it with other Kurdish music. Siya Cheman can also be classified as \"çîrokbêj\" because it is often used to for storytelling.\n\nMusical instruments include the \"tembûr\" (, tembûr, bağlama), \"biziq\" (), \"qernête\" (, Duduk) and \"bilûr\" (, Kaval) in northern and western Kurdistan, \"şimşal\" (long flute), \"cûzele\", \"kemençe\" and \"def\" (frame drum) in the south and east. \"Zirne\" (wooden shawm) and \"dahol\" (drum) are found in all parts of Kurdistan.\n\nThe most frequently used song form has two verses with ten syllable lines. Kurdish songs (, \"stran\" or \"goranî\") are characterized by their simple melodies, with a range of only four or five notes.\n\nThe first anthology of Kurdish music was published in 1986 in the form of 8 cassettes by Yekta Uzunoglu in Bonn.\n\nKurdish music from Iranian Kurdistan has a rather distinctive form with its ancient native instruments such as the \"Daff\" and the \"tanbour\" and with a shadow of Iranian influence while itself, has influenced the music of Iran in general to a certain degree. The sufi music of the Yarsanî sect (\"Ahleh Haqq\") with its 72 meqams is thought to be one of the most authentic and deep-rooted musical traditions in the world.\n\nSome of the most famous classical musicians, composers and singers of the past century from this part include Hassan Zirak (Bukan 1921–1972) who performed and recorded more than a thousand songs, Mohammad Mamlê (Mahabad 1925–1998) who was known for his voice, Abbas Kamandi (Sanandaj), Aziz Shahrokh (Piranshahr), Hassan Darzi, Seyed Mohammad Safayi, Osman Hawrami, Najmaddin Gholami (Sanandaj) and Mazhar Khaleqi (Sanandaj).\n\nSeveral Iranian Kurdish singers and musicians have been highly influential in classical Persian and Iranian music in general, including Sayed Ali Asghar Kordestani (1882–1936) who was allowed to perform in Kurdish on the Iranian national radio, Shahram Nazeri (Kermanshah 1950–present), Kayhan Kalhor (Kermanshah), Mohammad Jalil Andalibi (Sanandaj), Mojtaba Mirzadeh (Kermanshah), and Jamshid Andalibi (Sanandaj).\nThe Kamkars (\"Baradaran-e Kamkar\") from the city of Sanandaj is a leading ensemble in Kurdish music today. They are internationally renowned for their performance of Kurdish folk music and with great dynamism and innovation. Some members of the group, including Arsalan and Hooshang Kamkar, have also worked individually and produced successful works. The brothers have also been leading Persian performers, working hand in hand with a number of very high-profile Persian singers in the classical genre, like the most famous and renowned Mohammad-Reza Shajarian, along with whom they arguably managed to stop the extinction of the none-religious Iranian music after a ban by the Islamic government, making them a household name all over Iran.\n\nNasir Razazî (Sanandaj), who now resides in Sweden, performs Kurdish music from all genres. Ali Akbar Moradi is the greatest master of the religious tembûr music of the Yarsan sect to which he belongs. Female singers include Nasir Razazi's late wife, Marziye Fariqi, her sister, Leila Fariqi who is known for performing pop-Westernised songs, Fattaneh Validi (Sanandaj) and Shahin Talabani (Sanandaj) who mainly performs classical folklore.\n\nAras Ibrahim, the violinist, built martyr Karzan music group (Karzan Tipi Muziki Shehid) in 1981 which was the only group who could record revolutionary songs in the mountain in the PUK released areas of Kurdistan. The group recorded 5 cassettes and published them. In 1990, the group participated in the First festival of Halabja and Nawroz (arranged by Kurdistan Arts Union) in Saqz-Iran with the famous chorale of Halabja which was about the chemical weapon used against the Kurds there.\n\nKurdish singers from Iraqi Kurdistan had sometimes the opportunity of performing and recording with Arab orchestras, which is the reason why Kurdish music from this part is somewhat influenced by Arabian music. Some of the best-known classical musicians of the past generations here are Tehsîn Taha, who was renowned for his voice, Ali Merdan, Tahir Tewfiq, Anwer karadaghi, Karim Kaban, Eyaz Yûsif, 'Îsa Berwarî,Dilovan Saeed, Kawîs Axa, Shamal Sayib and composers and violin players Anwer karadaghi, Dilşad Said, Peshraw Baban.\n\nDespite the lack of any musical educational infrastructure, several famous Kurdish musicians arose from Syria.\n\nGerabêtê Xaço was a great classical \"stranbêj\", Muradê Kinê (Miradko) was another great \"stranbêj\" and kemençe player. Se'îd Yûsif (known as \"prince of the \"biziq\"\") is acclaimed for his unparalleled virtuosity on the \"biziq\" and his authentic \"teqsîm\"s and beautiful song melodies. Mihemed Şêxo was a master of symbolic nationalistic lyrics who was imprisoned several times for expressing his political opinion through his songs. Some other important figures are Aram Tîgran, Mehmûd Ezîz and his brother Mihemed Elî Şakir, Faris Bavê Fîras, Bangîn (Hikmet Cemîl), vocalist Miço Kendes and biziq player Ehmedê Çep. Ciwan Haco has been famous in pop/Westernized Kurdish music, \"Şeyda\" is locally known for his love songs, Nezir Palo is known for its special texts, music and poetry. Nȗhat is known for his soul music. Adnan babê Hêco is a singer of the many songs written about love.\n\nBetween 1982 and 1991 the performance or recording of songs in the Kurdish language was banned in Turkey, affecting singers such as Şivan Perwer, Mahsun Kırmızıgül and İbrahim Tatlıses. However a black market has long existed in Turkey, and pirate radio stations and underground recordings have always been available.\n\nSome of the foremost figures in Kurdish classical music of the past century from Anatolia include Mihemed 'Arif Cizrawî (1912–1986), Hesen Cizrawî, Şeroyê Biro, 'Evdalê Zeynikê, Si'îd Axayê Cizîrî and the female singers Miryem Xanê and Eyşe Şan.\n\nŞivan Perwer is a composer, vocalist and tembûr player. He concentrates mainly on political and nationalistic music – of which he is considered the founder in Kurdish music – as well as classical and folk music.\n\nAnother important Kurdish musician from Turkey is Nizamettin Arıç (Feqiyê Teyra). He began with singing in Turkish, and made his directorial debut and also stars in Klamek ji bo Beko (A Song for Beko), one of the first films in Kurdish. Arıç rejected musical stardom at the cost of debasing his language and culture. As a result of singing in Kurdish, he was imprisoned, and then obliged to flee to Syria and eventually to Germany.\n\nThe earliest study of Kurdish music was initiated by an Armenian priest, Vartapet Komitas, in 1904. The first academic center for Kurdish music was founded in Yerevan, called the Malikian School of Music, which studied the old \"Dengbêj\". Kurdish academic Cemîlê Celîl published two collections of popular Kurdish songs in 1964 and 1965. In Iraq, a center for study of Kurdish music was founded in 1958. An academic study of Kurdish music, dance and musical instruments in Hakkari was published by Dr. D. Christensen in 1963. The music of Kurdish Jews was also studied in the 1970s, and published by the Jewish Music Research Centre in Jerusalem.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1637525", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1637525", "title": "Lao Loum", "text": "Lao Loum\n\nThe Lao Loum (; , , ) is an official Lao People's Democratic Republic designation for lowland dwelling Tai peoples, including the majority Lao people. The Lao Loum, literally meaning \"lowland Lao,\" are the inhabitants of the river valleys and lowlands along the Mekong River and make up over 68% of the population of Laos, of whom, half are of the Lao ethnic group. Other members categorised as Lao Loum are the other large Tai groups, such as the Phuan and Phuthai and other closely related members of Tai ethnic groups.\n"}
{"id": "24765666", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24765666", "title": "List of criminal gangs in Los Angeles", "text": "List of criminal gangs in Los Angeles\n\nThis is a list of notable criminal gangs (with Wikipedia articles) in Los Angeles, California.\n\nLos Angeles has been nicknamed the \"Gang Capital of America,\" with an estimated 120,000 gang members as of 2007. According to a May 2001 Drug Threat Assessment by the National Drug Intelligence Center, Los Angeles was home to 1,350 gangs.\n\n\"Please add only when you have proper references and there is already an article. Otherwise, it WILL be removed.\" \n\n\n"}
{"id": "54511221", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54511221", "title": "List of townships of Myanmar by total fertility rate", "text": "List of townships of Myanmar by total fertility rate\n\nThis is a list of townships and districts of Myanmar by total fertility rate in 2014.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23824497", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23824497", "title": "Mandingo people of Sierra Leone", "text": "Mandingo people of Sierra Leone\n\nThe Mandinka people of Sierra Leone (commonly referred to as the Mandingo, Mandinka or Malinke) is a major ethnic group in Sierra Leone and a branch of the Mandinka people of West Africa. Most Sierra Leonean Mandingo are the direct descendants of Mandinka settlers from Guinea, who settled in the north and eastern part of Sierra Leone, beginning in the late 1870s, under the rule of prominent Mandinka Muslim cleric Samori Ture. Also later a significantly large population of Mandinka from Guinea migrated and settled in Eastern Sierra Leone and Northern Sierra Leone in the early to mid 20th century.\n\nThe Mandingo constitute about 7% of Sierra Leone's population. The Mandingo are over 99% Muslim, of the Sunni tradition of Islam. Islam has become the basis of their religious and cultural practices. The Mandingo are well known for their conservative Islamic tradition. The Mandingo people of Sierra Leone are predominantly traders and rural subsistence farmers. \n\nSome very prominent and well-known Mandingo in the country have been political leaders, including Sierra Leone's former president Ahmad Tejan Kabbah, former Vice President Sorie Ibrahim Koroma, current chairman of the Sierra Leone national electoral commission Mohamed Nfa Alie Conteh, former Sierra Leone minister of trade Usman Boie Kamara, former Sierra Leone Information Minister Kanji Daramy, the late millionaire businessman Mosiray Fadika, BBC journalist Umaru Fofanah, SLPP politician Ibrahim Kanja Sesay, Sierra Leone SLPP politician Alie Kabbah, The Mandain-United Holland Chairman – The Netherlands Mustapha Kabba and Makeni Mayor Sunkarie Kabba Kamara.\n\nThe Mandingo people of Sierra Leone speak the mandinka language as their native language. Like other Sierra Leonean ethnic groups, virtually all of the Mandingo people in this country also speak the Krio language. This was a creole language that developed in the early colonial period, when the coastal areas were settled by freed African Americans freed after the American Revolution and resettled from London and Nova Scotia, Africans liberated by the British navy from slave ships after the Crown banned the Atlantic trade, as well as some Europeans and ethnic Africans of the local regions. \n\nIn the 21st century, the Mandingo live in virtually all parts of Sierra Leone; they make up the majority of the population of several towns in the North and East of Sierra Leone. Their population is largely concentrated in Koinadugu District in the North, particularly in the towns of Kabala and Falaba, where they form the majority of the population. The Mandingo make up the majority of the population in Yengema, Kono District in Eastern Sierra Leone. They also make up the majority of the population in the town of Karina, Bombali District, in the north of Sierra Leone.\n\nIn 1875, Samori Ture, an ultra conservative hardline Muslim cleric and Mandinka leader in Guinea, imported breech-loading rifles through the British colony Sierra Leone and supplied his warriors with them. By 1876, his Mandinka warriors had defeated the Limba led by Almamy Suluku and had conquered a large territory in Limba areas in northern Sierra Leone (present day Koinadugu] and Kambia District). The Mandinka warriors moved into the northeastern part of British colony Sierra Leone, where they occupied lands of the local indigenous Temne and Loko people.\n\nTure took the title of \"Almany\", chief of all Believers. By late 1876, the Mandinka warriors had occupied a large section in northeastern Sierra Leone. \n\nSamori Ture established Islamic rule in parts of Northeastern Sierra Leone under his control, as part of the Wassoulou Empire. He founded many Islamic Madrassa schools based on the Suffi tradition of the Maliki school of Sunni Islam, in areas in Northeast Sierra Leone under his rule. Ture ordered the local Sierra Leonean people, who were living under the Mandinka control territory in Northeastern Sierra Leone to abandon their animist beliefs and to convert to Islam or they must pay a tax known as Jizya for not converting to Islam. \n\nSamori Ture brought many ethnic Mandinka marabout Sunni Muslims clerics from the Sufi tradition of Islam from Guinea to Northeastern Sierra Leone to teach the Quran and the life of the Islamic Prophet Muhammad. Ture banned some indigenous practices by the local Sierra Leone people that he viewed as un Islamic. Ture also imposed an Islamic dress code in Northeast Sierra Leone under his rule. Although most part of Northern Sierra Leone had been Muslims even before Samori's conquest, A minority of the local Sierra Leonean people under Samori Ture's rule were not Muslims at the time. But, faced with the tremendous powers of the new hardline Muslim rulers, they abandoned their animist beliefs and converted to Islam. Many of the local peoples joined the Mandinka in enrolling in the Islamic Madrassa schools established by Samori Ture. Within a short period of time after Ture conquered part of northern Sierra Leone, the region, once dominated by Indigenous religion, rapidly became an overwhelmingly Muslim majority, and has remained an overwhelmingly Muslim majority to present.\n\nIn 1878, Ture sent thousands of Mandinka people from the Wassoulou empire in central Guinea to Mandinka-occupied northeastern Sierra Leone as traders, farmers, and settlers to colonize the area. By late 1878, the Mandinka population had tripled in British-controlled Sierra Leone. \n\nBy the late 19th century, many of the Mandinka had begun to have large families. And by 1900, most of the Mandinka population in Sierra Leone were first generation Sierra Leonean born.The British government considered the Sierra Leonean born Mandinka as citizens of the colony of Sierra Leone by birth. The British called them Mandingo. While they were concentrated in the North and East, the Mandinka traders and businesspeople also settled in the capital Freetown. Since the late eighteenth century, it had been dominated by the Krio people, an ethnic group made up of descendants of black colonists from Great Britain and Nova Scotia, and slaves liberated from ships by the British Navy. The settlers from Nova Scotia were mostly freed United States slaves (known as Black Loyalists who were resettled in Nova Scotia after the American Revolutionary War. Many had left rebel masters and joined the British to gain freedom.\n\nThe Mandingo have played an important role in the politics of Sierra Leone. The Mandingo have traditionally supported the Sierra Leone People's Party (SLPP), which ruled the country as recently as 2007. Sierra Leone's third president Ahmad Tejan Kabbah, who is ethnic Mandingo, was very popular in the Mandingo community across Sierra Leone during his presidency. During Kabba's administration, the Mandingo enjoyed strong influence in the government and the civil service.\n\n\nUnder the current Sierra Leone government of president Ernest Bai Koroma of the All People's Congress (APC), serving since 20xx (year), several prominent Mandingo have been appointed to senior government and civil service positions. These include deputy Minister of Finance, Mabinty Daramy; Ambassador to the Gambia Mohamed Kemoh Fadika; and Minister of Mines, Mineral Resources Minkailu Mansaray;\n\nMandingo culture is rich in tradition, music, and spiritual ritual. Mandingo continue a long oral history tradition through griots, who tell stories, songs and proverbs. This passing down of oral history through music has made music one of the most distinctive traits of the Mandinka. In rural areas, western education's impact is minimal; the literacy rate in Latin script among these Mandinka is quite low. But, more than half the adult population can read the Arabic script used locally; small Qur'anic schools for children are quite common.\n\nThe Mandingo have long been known for their drumming and also for their unique musical instrument, the kora. The kora is a 21-stringed guitar-like instrument made out of a halved, dried, hollowed-out gourd covered with cow or goat skin. The strings are made of fishing line. It is played with traditional songs to accompany a dying person into the meaning of death, so the deceased can go in peace to the phantom place.\n\nMost Mandinka live in family-related compounds in traditional rural villages. Mandinka villages are fairly autonomous and self-ruled, being led by a council of upper-class elders and a chief who functions as a first among equals.\n\nFamily members traditionally arrange marriages between prospective spouses. This practice is particularly prevalent in the rural areas. The suitor's family sends kola nuts, a bitter nut from a tree, to the male elders of the bride-to-be. If the gift is accepted, the courtship begins. The Mandinka have practiced polygamy since pre-Islamic days. A Mandinka man is legally allowed to have up to four wives, as long as he is able to care for each of them equally.\n\nMandinka believe the crowning glory of any woman is the ability to produce children, especially sons. The first wife has authority over any subsequent wives. The husband has complete control over his wives and is responsible for feeding and clothing them. He also helps the wives' parents when necessary. Wives are expected to live together in harmony, at least superficially. They share work responsibilities of the compound, cooking, laundry, etc.\n\nMandingo children are named on the seventh day after their birth, and are almost always named after a very important person in their family. The Mandinka practise rites of passage to mark the beginning of adulthood for their children.\n\nAt an age between four and fourteen, the children of each sex are subjected to ritual cutting of genitalia (see articles on male and female genital cutting), in separate groups according to their gender. In years past, the boys spent up to a year in the bush, but that has been reduced to coincide with their physical healing time. It is now generally between three and four weeks. The children who have been through the ritual together form a special, internal bond, one which remains throughout life.\n\nDuring this time, the children of each gender are taught about their adult social responsibilities and rules of behaviour by elders of the same gender, who become their lifelong sponsors. They learn secret songs about being Mandinka. These songs teach them how they are to relate to members of the opposite sex, including their parents, their siblings, their relatives, and eventually their spouses, as well as their elders and their peers.\n\nGreat preparation is made in the village or compound for the return of the children. A huge celebration marks the return of the new adults to their families. The children are given new clothes and treated with new respect by their elders. Boys and girls are honoured with a dance. Tradition teaches children that, even after marriage, a woman's loyalty remains to her parents and her family; a man's to his.\n\nIn the early 21st century, more than 99% of Mandinka are Muslim. Many Mandinkas children, particularly those in the rural areas who attend madrassas, learn to recite chapters of the Qu'ran in Arabic.\n\nMost Mandinka continue to practise a mix of Islam and traditional animist practices. They believe that the spirits can be controlled only through the power of a marabout, who knows the protective formulas. No important decision is made without first consulting the marabout. Marabouts, who also have Islamic training, write Qu'ranic verses on slips of paper and sew them into leather pouches. They sell them as protective amulets, which are bought and worn by men, women, and children. The few Mandinka who have converted to Christianity are often viewed as traitors by the others. Often communities drive out converts from the compound and village; they are rejected by their families.\n\nMandinka are rural subsistence farmers who rely on groundnuts, rice, millet, and small-scale husbandry for their livelihood. The oldest male is the head of the family. Small mud houses with conical thatch or tin roofs make up their villages, which are organized on the basis of clan groups of related individuals. During the rainy season men plant peanuts as their main cash crop; peanuts are also a staple of the Mandinka diet. Men also plant millet and corn, mostly for family consumption. Women work in the rice fields, tending the plants by hand. This is extremely labour-intensive and physically demanding work. Only about 50% of the rice consumption needs are met by local planting; the rest is imported from Asia and the United States. While farming is the predominant profession among the Mandinka, men also work as tailors, butchers, taxi drivers, woodworkers, metalworkers, soldiers, nurses, and extension workers for aid agencies. However, most women, probably 95%, remain in the home as wives and mothers because their labor is integral to the survival of families.\n\n\nLansana Fofanah Sierra Leonean Journalist of BBC Africa\n\n"}
{"id": "15994882", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15994882", "title": "Maɗa language", "text": "Maɗa language\n\nMaɗa is a Chadic language spoken in northern Cameroon. It has 17,000 speakers.\n\nMaɗa has seven vowels.\n\nMaɗa has 25 consonants in total, including implosives, lateral fricatives, and prenasalized stops.\n\n"}
{"id": "25555611", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25555611", "title": "Mian people", "text": "Mian people\n\nThe Mian people (Mianmin) are a people living in the Telefomin district of the Sandaun province in Papua New Guinea. The number of Mian is 3,500, based on the number of speakers of their language, Mian.\n\nThe Mian are living in small villages in mountainous areas with rainforest and rivers; conditions which makes transport very limited, almost only restricted to walking, which however have helped them retaining their traditional way of life, based on hunting and agriculture, including slash-and-burn. They grow sweet potatoes, sago, bananas, pineapples, breadfruits, pawpaw, sugarcanes, pumpkins and squashes, and in more recent times, also oranges, tomatoes, beans, peanuts and coconuts. Animals they hunt and catch include pigs, cassowaries, birds, fish, snakes and small reptiles. Hunting is exclusively for men, while the women are normally the ones preparing the food.\n"}
{"id": "43390287", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43390287", "title": "Mongondow people", "text": "Mongondow people\n\nThe Mongondow or Bolaang Mongondow people are an ethnic group native to the north-eastern part of the Indonesian island of Sulawesi. The Mongondows are predominantly Muslim. They have traditionally been concentrated in the provinces of North Sulawesi and Gorontalo. This ethnic group used to be united by a single entity, the Kingdom of Bolaang Mongondow, which became the western regencies of North Sulawesi after the Indonesian independence.\n\nThe name Bolaang originated from the word \"Bolango\" or \"Balangon\" which means Sea. \"Bolaang\" or \"Golaang\" could also means \"Bright\" or \"Exposed and Undark\", while Mongondow originated from \"Momondow\" which means \"Cries of Victory\".\n\nThe people of Mongondow believed that their ancestors originate from the offspring of \"Gumalangit\" and \"Tendeduata\", as well as from \"Tumotoiboko\" and \"Tumotoibokat\" that were living on Mount Komasan, in today's Bintauna, North Bolaang Mongondow Regency. The descendants of both of their offspring later became the Mongondow people. The population of the Mongondows grew and spread beyond their native region such as Tudu in Lombagin, Buntalo, Pondoli’, Ginolantungan, Tudu in Passi, Tudu in Lolayan, Tudu in Sia’, Tudu in Bumbungon, Mahag, Siniow and so forth. The source of income for the Mongondows in those days include hunting, fishing, processing of sago, and harvesting of tuber in the jungle. In short, they have yet to learn farming in those days.\n\nIn the 13th century, the \"Bogani\" (leaders of the groups of Mongondow community that occupied a certain area) became united to form a government rule for the Mongondow people called Bolaang. Bolaang itself means \"the sea\" (\"balangon\") which identifies this kingdom as a maritime kingdom. The results of the meeting (\"bakid\") of the Bogani came to an agreement to appoint Mokodoludut, a Bogani Molantud man as the first king (\"Punu\"') of the Bolaang kingdom. In the 16th century, after King Mokodompit departed to Siau Island in the years of power vacuum in Bolaang Mongondow Kingdom; moreover Prince Dodi Mokoagow, the strongest candidate to succeed the throne from King Mokodompit was killed by the Alfur people in an incident in the interior of Manado. In that period, the governance of the kingdom was taken over by a Mulantud Bogani man named Dou'. After the prince of King Mokodompit in Siau Island reached adulthood, he was appointed as the 7th King of Bolaang Mongondow Kingdom. The Abo (meaning, \"prince\") is called Tadohe / Sadohe, while his mother is a princess from the Siau Kingdom. It was in his era that the governing system of the Bolaang Mongondow Kingdom was restored.\n\nDuring the era of King Salmon Manoppo (1735-1764), there was a fierce conflict with the Dutch which ended with the King Salmon being captured and exiled to Tanjung Harapan, South Africa. This incident triggered protests and a great riot that was carried out by the Mongondow people of which the Bolaang kingdom belonged to. Finally, the Dutch returned the King of Bolaang and ever since then the name of Bolaang Kingdom has been added with the name of the ethnic group, the native of the Bolaang Kingdom to become Bolaang Mongondow to this present day. In 1901, administratively the area of Bolaang Mongondow Kingdom is part of the Bolaang Mongondow Subdivision (\"Onderafdeling\" in Dutch) which includes the Administrative Area (\"landschap\" in Dutch) of Bintauna, Bolaang Uki and Kaudipang Besar from Manado Administrative Division (\"Afdeling\" in Dutch).\n\nThe Bolaang Mongondow Kingdom officially ended on July 1, 1950 when the Majesty of King Tuang Henny Yusuf Cornelius Manoppo abdicated and made a declaration to join the Republic of Indonesia. Currently Mongondow is interpreted as a mountainous area and Bolaang as a coastal area. When Oemarudin Nini Mokoagow became regent of Bolaang Mongondow Regency (August 1966 to January 1976), a new village was created with the name Mongondow in Kotamobagu as a result of the redelineation from Motoboi Village.\n\nThe Mongondow people are made up of several sub-ethnicity that resides in North Sulawesi and Gorontalo such as:-\n\nThe everyday Mongondow folk uses Mongondow language, Bolango language and Bintauna language on a daily basis. Linguistically, these languages belong to the Greater Central Philippine languages branch; alongside the Gorontalo language, Minahasan language and Sangir language of Sulawesi, Indonesia. The Mongondow people also uses Manado Malay as a form of communication with the rest of the other North Sulawesi people.\n\nThe region of the Bolaang Mongondow covers 50.3% of the area of North Sulawesi so much so that the Bolaang Mongondow government together with the community leaders, customary leaders and religious leaders had agreed to divide the region with the full support of the Bolaang Mongondow regent, the then Marlina Moha Siahaan.\n\nWith the full support of every community as well as the local Bolaang Mongondow government, the committee of the regional division managed to convince the central government and the Parliament that the Bolaang Mongondow region has officially divided into five regencies, namely:\n"}
{"id": "19437647", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19437647", "title": "Notes and Records", "text": "Notes and Records\n\nNotes and Records: the Royal Society Journal of the History of Science is an international, quarterly peer-reviewed academic journal \nwhich publishes original research in the history of science, technology, and medicine. The journal welcomes other forms of contribution including: research notes elucidating recent archival discoveries (in the collections of the Royal Society and elsewhere); news of research projects and online and other resources of interest to historians; book reviews, including essay reviews, on material relating primarily to the history of the Royal Society; recollections or autobiographical accounts written by Fellows and others recording important moments in science from the recent past. It is published by the Royal Society and the editor-in-chief is Anna-Marie Roos supported by an eminent editorial board.\n\n\"Notes and Records\" is fully compliant with the open access requirements of a range of funders including the HEFCE (REF 2020), AHRC, Scottish Funding Council, Wellcome Trust and European Commission. It is designated as \"green\" on the SHERPA/RoMEO website.\n\nThe journal was established in 1938 as the \"Notes and Records of the Royal Society\", under the control of Henry Lyons with the help of the assistant secretary of the Royal Society. \nIt obtained its current name, \"Notes and Records: the Royal Society journal of the history of science\" in 2014.\n\nThe journal is abstracted and indexed in Scopus, Science Citation Index Expanded, Arts & Humanities Citation Index, Current Contents/Arts & Humanities, Current Mathematical Publications, and MathSciNet. According to the \"Journal Citation Reports\", the journal has a 2015 impact factor of 0.475.\n"}
{"id": "20096410", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20096410", "title": "Organ theft in Kosovo", "text": "Organ theft in Kosovo\n\nOrgan theft in Kosovo (sometimes also known as the \"yellow house\" case) refers to the organ harvesting and killing of an indeterminate number of disappeared people. Various sources had estimated that the number of victims ranged from a \"handful\", up to 50, between 24 to 100 to over 300. The victims were believed to be of Serbian ethnicity, killed by perpetrators with strong links to the Kosovo Liberation Army (UÇK) in 1999.\n\nAccording to UN allegations, the victims were chosen from a pool of about 100 to 300 combatants and civilians taken prisoner or kidnapped by the KLA during and after the Kosovo War and then allegedly taken to detention centers and private homes in northern and central Albania. The UN document indicates the involvement or at least knowledge of several mid-level and senior KLA commanders, the men were taken to a makeshift clinic near Tirana, Albania, where they were shot in the head and then had their organs removed. The United Nations (UN) war crimes prosecutors investigated the case in 2002 and 2003, and again in 2004, but concluded there was insufficient evidence to prove that the organ harvesting ring existed.\n\nIn 2010, a report by Swiss prosecutor Dick Marty to the Council of Europe (CoE) uncovered \"credible, convergent indications\" of an illegal trade in human organs going back over a decade, including the deaths of a \"handful\" of Serb captives killed for this purpose. On 25 January 2011, the report was endorsed by the CoE, which called for a full and serious investigation. Since the issuance of the report, however, senior sources in the European Union Rule of Law Mission in Kosovo (EULEX) and many members of the European Parliament have expressed serious doubts regarding the report and its foundations, believing Marty failed to provide \"any evidence\" concerning the allegations. A EULEX special investigation was launched in August 2011.\n\nThe head of the war crimes unit of EULEX (the European Law and Justice Mission in Kosovo), Matti Raatikainen, said \"The fact is that there is no evidence whatsoever in this case, no bodies. No witnesses. All the reports and media attention to this issue have not been helpful to us. In fact they have not been helpful to anyone.\"\n\nThe allegations first appeared in the media in \"\", written in 2008 by Carla Del Ponte, a former chief prosecutor for the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia (ICTY). In her book, Del Ponte states that Kosovo Albanians harvested organs of kidnapped ethnic Serbs after the armed conflict ended in 1999. These accusations were backed by her own visit to the site; several witnesses both in and out of the ICTY, one of whom \"personally made an organ delivery\" to an Albanian airport for transport abroad; and \"confirmed information directly gathered by the tribunal.\"\n\nDel Ponte concluded that if the case had been opened before Kosovo's declaration of independence, world governments might not have had the same stance on the Kosovo question. The Swiss government ordered Del Ponte not to discuss the case. She was accused of spreading unfounded rumors and her former press secretary distanced herself from Del Ponte. Bernard Kouchner, former top UN representative in Kosovo, stated in April 2011: \"We were aware of the extortions, but we never heard of organ trafficking,\" rejecting the accusations made by Del Ponte.\n\nAfter the war in Kosovo, American journalist Michael Montgomery obtained testimony from seven former KLA soldiers who said they had transported prisoners, dead and alive, from Kosovo to Albania. Some of Montgomery's sources referred to the possibility of organ-trafficking and identified a small yellow farmhouse in the village of Rripë near the remote town of Burrel, Albania. Montgomery provided a summary of his research to the Office of Missing Persons and Forensics (OMPF) at the United Nations Interim Administration Mission in Kosovo (UNMIK). A team of UN and ICTY investigators visited the house in February 2004. They found widespread traces of blood of uncertain provenance on the floor and medical surgical equipment on the rubbish dump and in the riverbed. The family living in the house offered contradictory and inconsistent explanations for the blood and equipment.\n\nAccording to Del Ponte, witness statements indicated that a doctor, described as a Kosovar from Peć, might have removed the organs from up to 50 prisoners there. The villagers objected to the exhumation of the graves where the witnesses said that several victims were buried under false Albanian names. The UN then shelved their investigation, lacking the mandate to investigate crimes committed after the war had ended and also having gathered insufficient evidence to support an indictment. Most of the witnesses were taken to Italy for their protection and seem to have \"disappeared from the face of the earth\", having presumably gone into hiding.\n\nInformation obtained by the Serbian radio and television B92 alleged that prisoners were trafficked in trucks from Kosovo to Gurrë, Mat, in northern Albania, and to a KLA camp in Kukës, during and after the Kosovo War. The organ harvesting was presumably performed while the prisoners were alive in the so-called \"Building/Prison 320\", 20 km from the \"yellow house\" mentioned by Del Ponte as the site of the acts. B92 also alleged they have documents revealing that Albanian Prime Minister Sali Berisha was asked by the KLA leader and former Kosovo Prime Minister Ramush Haradinaj to send security forces to destroy all evidence connected to the disappearance and organ harvesting of Serbs from Kosovo who were transported to Albania.\n\nAccording to the Serbian war crimes prosecution, \"Building/Prison 320 is a neuro-psychiatric clinic. We believe that surgical operations were carried out there on civilians, as the conditions existed for such a thing. There was a prisoner camp there, as well as a KLA camp ... It differs markedly from what the Albanian prosecutor has been saying, who shut the case back in 2005.\" Serbian war crimes prosecutor, Bruno Vekarić, asserted that an additional 40 mental patients from Štimlje are thought to be victims of the organ theft. However, the Humanitarian Law Center conducted an investigation into the deaths of the named victims (two women with severe mental disabilities) and established that the women died of natural causes and were not victims of organ trafficking.\n\nThe Serbian investigation was re-launched on 21 March 2008, just ahead of Del Ponte's book release on 3 April 2008, when the country's prosecutors claimed they had sufficient evidence \"to search the whole of Albania for mass graves of Serbs.\" Serbia urged Albania to cooperate but in late October 2008, Albanian officials replied that the charges were already investigated by the UN and Carla Del Ponte and that the Serbian government had no new evidence. On 14 November 2008, UNMIK invited Serbian war crimes prosecutors to join with them in a new investigation about the \"yellow house\".\n\nOn 20 November 2008, in line with ICTY's commitment of cooperation with Serbia, current ICTY chief Serge Brammertz provided Serbia evidence of the operation house in northern Albania. In response, the Albanian prosecutor said only a small amount of penicillin was found. An ICTY report stated that seven points were confirmed in the allegations and that the Albanian prosecutor and UNMIK failed to tell the truth when investigating the findings concerning surgical equipment.\n\nAccording to the UN, the Albanian government has been trying to prevent inquiries into possible war crimes and the involvement of KLA elements in organ trade, even after proof of surgical procedures in the Burrel house was presented to them. Albanian officials claim that the allegations are speculative. However, Human Rights Watch believes otherwise. HRW has been conducting its own investigation into the allegations and has been calling for an independent probe to investigate crimes by former leaders of the KLA. HRW believes the allegations are credible and that simple harvesting of kidneys could have been easily performed even without surgical tools, although such were found at the scene.\n\nIn August 2009, Albanians in the village of Rripë prevented representatives of the CoE (under Dick Marty) from searching houses relating to the case. The locals said they would not let anyone other than the Albanian government examine potential evidence, although the Albanian and Kosovo authorities have said they will not investigate. Serbian war crime prosecutors have said that new evidence has been found and that the investigation is ongoing. The Council of Europe is still interested in the case and embassies are sending data to the war crimes committee. Additionally, new potential witnesses have been found that could \"open up the case in the real sense of the word\".\n\nOn 27 December 2009, Serbian prosecutor Vladimir Vukčević announced that the names of \"the people who were in the house\" were uncovered, as well as victims from beyond Kosovo, \"some Russian and Czech citizens\". He further advised that organs were believed sold \"in the West and East, in Turkey, and Saudi Arabia\". On 9 September 2012, Vukčević said Serbia is protecting an unnamed witness, described as a former KLA member who claims to have participated in harvesting a heart from a Serb captive in northern Albania and transporting it to the airport near Tirana. Serbian prosecutors \"estimate that the information this witness has given is true.\"\n\nIn June 2009, a Kosovo Serb and two Serbian citizens, accused of being provocateurs, were arrested by the Kosovo Police for allegedly offering money in exchange for statements confirming organ trading and to mediators finding such information. The three have been investigated for inciting people to falsely testify that they were victims of organ harvesting. The accused were released in February 2010 and the case was dismissed by EULEX.\n\nIn May 2010, EULEX chief war crimes investigator Matti Raatikainen said: \"The fact is that there is no evidence whatsoever in this case. No bodies. No witnesses. All the reports and media attention to this issue have not been helpful to us. In fact they have not been helpful to anyone.\" According to BBC News, Raatikainen said that \"the main problem\" was that \"the scandal created by the allegations has distracted attention from the real work of finding the remains of 1,861 people still missing from the war and its aftermath, and prosecuting their killers - in Serbia, Kosovo and Albania.\" Earlier that same month, EULEX made the first arrest in connection with a case of illegal detention camps in Albania, especially in the north-east Albanian town of Kukës, which held ethnic Albanians suspected of disloyalty to the KLA. \"But constant revelations in the Serbian press that new evidence, or new witnesses have emerged for the organ-trafficking allegations, have all proven either false, or unsubstantiated,\" according to BBC News. One EULEX investigator called it a \"fairy-tale\". A source close to the Serbian investigation was also quoted as saying \"I still believe something happened there, but nothing on the scale of what has been suggested... and possibly not even connected to the KLA.\"\n\nThe European Union has set up an investigation, with a task force headed by U.S. prosecutor John Clint Williamson. Although, Kosovo and Albania continue to deny the accusations, on 2 May 2012, Albania drafted legislation allowing an EU-led investigation, which would permit international investigators to conduct the probe on Albanian territory. Prime minister Sali Berisha stressed that for Albania it is \"a priority\" to investigate allegations made by Dick Marty. \n\nIn November 2008, several men were arrested after a raid on an organ trafficking ring in Pristina after a Turkish national, Dr. Yusuf Sonmez, was questioned by the Kosovo Police. Two urologists and a manager working in the private clinic Medicus, none of whom were qualified to perform surgery, were conducting an organ trafficking business at their clinic from 1998 until their arrest in late 2008.\n\nSonmez is also believed to have been active in Baku, Azerbaijan, where a local investigation found \"citizens of various countries\" were brought into the country for illegal kidney transplants. Reportedly, Sonmez was \"involved\" in the alleged racket, which also had operations in Ecuador. A group of four Ukrainian doctors were arrested in this case by Azeri and Ukrainian authorities. In addition, Sonmez, who has admitted to performing thousands of transplants, which he claims were all voluntary for humanitarian purposes, has been repeatedly arrested for organ transplants in his native country.\n\nOn 12 January 2011, Yusuf Sonmez, dubbed \"Dr. Frankenstein\" by Turkish media, was arrested in Istanbul. In September 2011, a Turkish prosecutor requested a 171-year prison sentence for Sonmez, who was charged with performing at least 11 illegal organ removal surgeries at the Medicus clinic, illicit organ trafficking, and forming a criminal gang. The prosecutor demanded the same sentence for the accused mediator, an Israeli citizen, Moshe Harel.\n\nIn another case, five (later nine) people, including the former Kosovo government secretary of health, were indicted on 15 October 2010 by an EULEX court in Pristina, Kosovo, accused of direct or indirect involvement in a number of non-lethal illegal kidney transplantations at the Medicus clinic. The accused are said to have lured impoverished people from Turkey, Russia, Moldova and Kazakhstan with false promises of payment for their organs. According to \"The Guardian\", the newspaper \"has established that organs are believed to have been shipped to Istanbul in a criminal racket operated by Yusuf Sonmez, the same Turkish doctor wanted by Interpol for his alleged involvement in the Medicus clinic.\"\n\nOn 12 December 2010, a draft report from Swiss prosecutor Dick Marty to the Council of Europe was pre-released. The report alleged that the Republic of Kosovo's prime minister, Hashim Thaçi was the head of a \"mafia-like\" group responsible for smuggling weapons, drugs and human organs through eastern Europe. As stated in the report, the KLA held prisoners in a network of six facilities located in Albania, and Thaçi's \"Drenica Group\" had the greatest responsibility for the prisons and the fate of those held there.\n\n\"Some Serbians and some Albanian Kosovars were held prisoner in secret places of detention under KLA control in northern Albania and were subjected to inhuman and degrading treatment, before ultimately disappearing,\" the report says. A \"handful\" of the healthiest prisoners were presumably transferred to a farmhouse near Fushë-Krujë, not far the Albanian capital of Tirana, where they were killed for their kidneys.\n\nThe report states: \"As and when the transplant surgeons were confirmed to be in position and ready to operate, the captives were brought out of the 'safe house' individually, summarily executed by a KLA gunman, and their corpses transported swiftly to the operating clinic.\" Some of the captives were aware of the fate that awaited them and pleaded not to be \"chopped up\". The organs were then subsequently shipped to Istanbul, Turkey.\n\nMarty's report, entitled \"Inhuman treatment of people and illicit trafficking in human organs in Kosovo\", was presented to the Council of Europe Foreign Relations Committee on 16 December 2010, and was expected to be on the agenda of the Session of Council of Europe in January 2011. The report made waves across the world and led to a series of similar reports. The Swiss foreign ministry noted that Marty's report contained \"grave accusations made on the basis of countless witness accounts and evidence.\"\n\nThe EULEX announced that they regarded the report very seriously and called for supporting evidence. On 17 January 2011, the EULEX Special Prosecutor's Office met with Albanian officials to discuss the organ case. UNMIK chief Lamberto Zannier said that EULEX, which is now in charge of dealing with war crimes in Kosovo, was given every war crimes file that the ICTY and the UN possessed, including witness statements.\n\nKosovo's government has denied the crimes and criticized the report as \"biased\", \"politically motivated\" and anti-Albanian\". Speaking at a press conference, Marty claimed that the content of his report was known to Western intelligence agencies, who deliberately chose to downplay the allegations for the sake of foreign-policy objectives. Kosovo interim President Jakup Krasniqi asked the EU not to endorse the report, saying \"I welcome your support in not allowing adoption of this report as an official document of the Council of Europe.\" Former Kosovo prime minister and KLA commander, currently Social Democrat leader Agim Çeku, accused Belgrade of creating the allegations, saying \"Every accusation against the KLA comes from Serbia or its helpers. It's just an attempt to blacken our war and our victory.\"\n\nAlbanian Prime Minister Sali Berisha responded by calling Marty \"racist and antisemitic\", while Albanian MP Shpëtim Idrizi alleged that the report \"is something ordered by Russia and Serbia, and offers no facts. This is a story full of untruths and propaganda.\" On the other hand, Albanian former communist-era dissident Fatos Lubonja said it is important for an investigation to be conducted: \"It matters not only for international justice, not only for the Serbs, it matters also for the Kosovo Albanians who have such leaders. If these leaders are criminals, if they face accusations of being criminals, they cannot create a democratic order.\"\n\nHashim Thaçi himself denied the crimes and his associates announced they would file a lawsuit against Marty. Thaçi also announced that he will publish a list of witnesses who contributed to the report that would discredit it, stating \"There are witnesses and evidence which shows in what way the report was made.\" Thaçi's political opponents denounced the report and the accusations as \"unacceptable\". In 2011, Marty retracted earlier comments and claimed that his report has \"never\" implicated Thaçi directly, but rather his close associates. However, he added that it is \"hard to believe that he [Thaçi] never heard about that.\"\n\nOn 25 January 2011, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe (PACE) voted to adopt a resolution based on the Marty report. 166 PACE members voted in favor, while eight voted against the document. Several amendments proposed by the Albanian delegation were rejected and the Council called for a full and serious investigation. The resolution calls on the international community and governments in Belgrade and Priština, as well as in Albania, to \"undertake measures\" in order to clear up the crimes.\n\nOn 8 February 2011, \"The Wall Street Journal\" published an article by Denis MacShane questioning the allegations in Marty's report. According to a former prosecutor in the case against Slobodan Milosevic, Sir Geoffrey Nice, the Marty report provides no evidence, no victims and a witness that does not exist. Nice dismissed the allegations as attempts to undermine Kosovo's independence.\n\nIn March 2011, Marty presented his report to the European Parliament’s Committee on Foreign Affairs, whose members said after the meeting that Marty did not provide any evidence, while some of them claimed that he attacked and accused of bias those who questioned his report. In a heated debate, Marty told the MEPs that a witness protection program was needed in Kosovo, before he could provide more details on witnesses to the trafficking as their lives were in danger.\n\nIn January 2011, \"The Guardian\" released NATO documents from 2004 that identified Hashim Thaçi as under the control of the Albanian mafia, in particular former KLA chief of logistics Xhavit Haliti. Haliti, who \"serves as a political and financial adviser to the prime minister\", was described as \"highly involved in prostitution, weapons and drugs smuggling\". According to the article, Haliti uses fake passports to travel abroad because he is blacklisted in several countries, including the United States. \"Haliti is also named in the report by Marty, which is understood to have drawn on NATO intelligence assessments along with reports from the FBI and MI5,\" according to the article.\n\nOn 17 February 2011, the media obtained a classified document which suggests that the UN knew about the organ trafficking and the criminal involvement of senior KLA commanders as early as 2003. On 20 February 2011, Jose Pablo Baraybar, former UNMIK Forensics and Missing Persons Office head, confirmed that the United Nations was given confidential material about organ trafficking in Kosovo by an anonymous official. The statements, compiled in 30-pages, were made to the UN by at least eight \"low to midlevel ranking KLA members\". The documents have been given the name \"CX-103\".\n\nHead of the ICTY Mission to Skopje and Priština Eamon Smith sent a letter to the ICTY Chief Investigator Patrick Lopez Terez on 30 October 2003, informing Lopez about Smith's meeting and conversation with UNMIK Justice Department head Paul E. Coffey. Smith presented his conclusions regarding the human organ trafficking case based on testimony by former KLA members. In 2002-2003, a number of ex-KLA ethnic Albanian witnesses from Kosovo and Montenegro gave detailed testimony about the revenge killings of Serbs and trading of kidneys, livers and other organs in the aftermath of the Kosovo War, taking place as late as the summer of 2000.\n\nThe witnesses reported that between 100 and 300 people were kidnapped in mid-1999 and transported to detention facilities in northern Albania, where they were held. Some of the captives in the 25-50 year age range were subjected to medical exams at given locations. The witnesses described how they buried victims to hide evidence of killings. The UN briefly investigated the claims but did not launch the probe, prompting accusations of double standards against the UN by Serbia.\n\nMost of the victims were Serbs who were abducted in Kosovo between June and October 1999, the document stated. Those people were allegedly held at different KLA-run prisons in Albania and in some cases their organs were removed at a home set up as a medical clinic, where specialized equipment and medical personnel were in place to carry out the operations.\n\nIn December 2003, a top justice official in Kosovo, Paul Coffey, wrote to Jonathan Sutch, an ICTY official in Kosovo, that the crimes were reported to the UN in Kosovo by \"multiple sources of unknown reliability.\" Coffey said the information was \"based on interviews with at least eight sources, the credibility of whom is untested, all ethnic Albanians from Kosovo or Montenegro who served in the KLA.\" One of the witnesses is quoted as telling the UN that the first two organ harvesting surgeries were done \"to breach the market\", and that traffickers later were able to make up to $45,000 per body. \"The largest shipment was when they did 5 Serbs together. ... He said they took a fortune that time. Other shipments were usually from two or three Serbs,\" according to the document.\n\nA source said that the organs were taken through Tirana's International Airport Nënë Tereza to the Atatürk International Airport in Istanbul, and that workers at the airports were bribed \"to close their eyes\". Two sources said they personally took part in delivering body parts (hearts, lungs, livers, kidneys) to Tirana’s international airport. One source said he was instructed by his KLA superiors not to mistreat the prisoners and that he became suspicious when they were to deliver \"a briefcase or a file with papers that would be given to the doctor when the captives were delivered\" to the house in northern Albania, adding that he used to bring prisoners there but never drove any of them back.\n\nWitnesses state that top KLA members and doctors from Kosovo and abroad were fully aware of the transport and surgeries and that they were actively involved in them. The sources also told the UN that the house where the organs were harvested was a two-hour drive from Tirana airport. The UN and ICTY investigators visited a house in the village of Rripë in 2004 and found pieces of medical equipment, medicine boxes and blood traces. Other victims include some women described as \"prostitutes\", of whom at least two were believed abducted in Albania.\n\nIn spring 2011, the EU Rule of Law mission in Kosovo (EULEX), with the full support of all 27 EU Member States, decided to set up a Special Investigative Task Force with the view to further the investigation into the allegations contained in the Council of Europe report of Dick Marty.\n\nIn April 2013 an EU-led court in Kosovo found five people guilty in connection with a human organ-trafficking ring at the Medicus Clinic in Pristina. The found that the Medicus Clinic recruited poor people from across eastern Europe and central Asia, promising them 15,000 euro for their organs. The trade was discovered when a Turkish man collapsed after having one of his kidneys removed at the clinic. The clinic's director, urologist Lutfi Dervishi was sentenced to eight years in prison for organised crime and human trafficking. His son, Arban, was sentenced to seven years and three months, while three other defendants received between one and three years' imprisonment. Meanwhile, two former government officials also charged in the case have been cleared of involvement.\n\nIn July 2014, Clint Williamson, the lead prosecutor with the task force, told a press conference in Brussels that unnamed “senior officials of the former Kosovo Liberation Army” will face indictments for crimes against humanity and other abuses. He said there were “compelling indications” that “a few individuals were killed with the intention of extracting their organs” by KLA fighters, but the allegations that hundreds of prisoners were killed and their organs sold was “totally unsupported”.\n\nOn April 4, 2014 media reported EU plans to start in 2015 a tribunal, costing $170M, and funded by the EU, that will try Albanians involved in the organ traffic. The U.S. ambassador to Kosovo Tracey Ann Jacobson said that the proposed establishment of a special tribunal to deal with allegations of organ trafficking by former Kosovo Albanian rebels would help Kosovo build up its \"international credibility.\" Press reports suggested that the EU and the government of Kosovo have yet to reach an agreement for the establishment of the tribunal. The Kosovan authorities insist on a domestic court staffed by local judges. EULEX chief Bernd Borchardt in June 2014 said that the special court is supposed to work in accordance with Kosovar law to the extent this is applicable. This court will not only have a seat in Kosovo, but also outside the country; in particular, to make witness statements easier.\n\nThe Nigerian Medical Association (NMA) issued statements accusing governor Rochas Okorocha of collaborating with Kosovo and other countries with organ trafficking. Hashim Thaci is alleged to be the \"head of organ trafficking in Europe\" and Okorocha's friend. Nigerian doctor Philip Njemanze is to testify about the matter, as reported on 12 February 2016.\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "24775020", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24775020", "title": "Palh", "text": "Palh\n\nThe Palh () are a Sindhi tribe in Sindh province of Pakistan. Urdu and Punjabi are also spoken by Palhs. Palh is a Samat tribe in Sindh.\n"}
{"id": "33521429", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33521429", "title": "Pherá language", "text": "Pherá language\n\nPherá, also spelled Xwela, is a Gbe language of Benin. It forms a dialect chain with Western Phla.\n"}
{"id": "13335178", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13335178", "title": "Pleasure Point Night Fighters", "text": "Pleasure Point Night Fighters\n\nThe Pleasure Point Night Fighters, a.k.a. PPNF, is a strong community-oriented organization that comes together to preserve and protect the Pleasure Point area and originated Pack Your Trash.\n\nThe Pleasure Point Night Fighters were the first to use the name Pleasure Point. This designation is used to define the surfing community on Soquel Point in the county of Santa Cruz. It is defined by Moran Lagoon, Portola Dr, 41st Ave and the Pacific Ocean.\n\nDuring the time of Prohibition (1919 to 1933), the Pleasure Point, Santa Cruz, California community was not served by the Santa Cruz City Fire Department after dark.\nIn response to this lack of fire service in the night time, a group of volunteer's organized to fill this need.\nThe Pleasure Point Night Fighters began as a volunteer fire fighters organization. They helped to fight many fires that were started by drunken revelers who came to this remote area between Santa Cruz and Capitola during Prohibition.\n\nPPNF was also renowned as a vigilante organization that kept the peace in unincorporated area of Pleasure Point. The people who were at the mercy of those who came into the area turned to this local organization for protection.\nThe rumors of the many valiant actions and the heroes of this time are still told among the older members of Pleasure Point surfing community.\n\nDuring World War II, many of the members joined the service to protect the USA from the greater world threat and their activities were suspended.\n\nThe PPNF was revived in the 1950s when \"Pleasure Point Night Fighters\" became the call to arms and rebel yell for the locals.\n\nJim Phillips, world-renowned for his surf art and contributions to surf culture, designed the PPNF calling cards. He and Harry Conti, reincarnated the Night Fighters in the 1970s.\n\nIn the 1980s they planned and developed the Night Fighter Park at the corner of Pleasure Point Dr and East Cliff Dr.\n\nThey ran Pack Your Trash, for many years.\nPack Your Trash started a larger trend that has evolved to larger beach clean-up days.\nThese larger clean-ups are supported by Save Our Shores, Surfrider, Coastal Conservancy and Save Our Seas Hawaii, among others.\nThe PPNF is now a strong community-oriented organization that comes together to preserve and protect the Pleasure Point area.\n\nIt is working together with the County to preserve the Pleasure Point roadhouse for a community center.\n\nPPNF is working to create guidelines for the Pleasure Point Community Plan, in response to neighborhood concerns about new large houses that overwhelm the traditional beach cottages.\n\n"}
{"id": "56428620", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56428620", "title": "Sahel and West Africa Club", "text": "Sahel and West Africa Club\n\nThe Sahel and West Africa Club, formerly known as the Sahel Club, was founded after the 1968-1973 Sahel drought that affected food production in the Sahel region. The initial aim of the club concentrated on facilitating cooperation between Sahel States and member nations of OECD to provide solutions to food security and long term economic growth. In 2001, as a result of the inter-dependence between the Sahel states and the ECOWAS community, membership was enlarged and the objectives of the club was turned to sustainable development, agricultural transformation, peace and security, regional integration and food security for vulnerable households. The club is aligned with the Organization for Economic Development and Cooperation(OECD).\n\nThe club originally consisted of countries who were affected by drought in the early 1970s. In 1973 at the height of the Sahel drought, a committee consisting of Senegal, Mali, Chad, Burkina Faso, Mauritania and Niger initiated an Interstate Committee to Control Drought in the Sahel. In 1976, a new association, the Sahel Club was founded in Dakar and had members of the inter-state committee, The Gambia and Cape Verde, multilateral agencies and member nations of OECD. The concept for founding the club was to improve collaboration between the Sahel states and OECD countries and donors. The club's aim include planning for medium term self-sufficiency in agriculture and long term socio-economic regional development.\n"}
{"id": "53734826", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53734826", "title": "Sex differences in education in the United States", "text": "Sex differences in education in the United States\n\nSex differences in education in the United States refers to the specific issues, such as gender-based discrimination related to coursework and use of disciplinary action, that American students of all genders encounter. Furthermore, while sex differences in education explains the prevalence of gender-based differences in education on a global scale, the American education system includes specific forms of gender discrimination dissimilar to other countries.\n\nGirls and boys have very different developmental trajectories. It has been found that boys are the most likely to delay entry into kindergarten (60% or the children are boys), meaning they do not attend until they are at least 6 years old. Boys are also more likely than girls to repeat a grade or more during their time in elementary school (66% of children who repeat kindergarten are boys). On average, girls perform significantly better in school and earn better grades. But, girls and boys do have different strengths. On average, girls perform better in writing and boys are ahead of girls in mathematics.\n\nMen and women workers in the United States have the same mean numbers of years of education which is 12.2 years. But there are some discrepancies across gender when it comes to education. When it comes to terminating an educational career, men are more likely to terminate their education either before achieving a high school diploma or at the college level (5,779). Whereas women are more likely to terminate their education after having achieved a high school diploma. When it comes to amount of education, working class girls tended to have the shortest academic career. Middle class boys have the longest academic careers. The sex gap for education was wider between the working class children and the middle class children. Girls had a wider gap when it came to the class gap then boys.\n\nMale students, like their female counterparts, experience discrimination in academic settings. Several scholars argue this discrimination focuses on teachers’ discipline of their male students as well as on the attitudes of other male peers. Educational scholars and other sociologists use these claims to support their theories regarding male enrollment in specific academic subjects.\n\nDan Kindlon and Michael Thompson examine the ways in which boys’ earlier experiences with education impact their later relationships with schooling. For example, they write of a male patient whose struggles in middle school were traced back to his history of disciplinary violations. The authors go on to state that boys’ typical behaviors—such as their propensity for physical action—are a “problem” when they enter American schools, institutions that prioritize obedience and self-control. Furthermore, Kindlon and Thompson explain the detriment of stereotypes surrounding boys, explaining how teachers often ascribe their own biases to male students.\n\nAuthors like Myra Sadker and David Sadker provide a history to the argument that schools are “feminine” spaces—a critique these authors challenge. In this overview, they explain how women’s entrance into the teaching profession at the time of the Civil War eventually enabled women to lead the field. This large number of female teachers in American schools thus created a fear among men that boys would learn (and perform) traits that were socially coded as feminine. Shifting from this history, Sadker and Sadker write how heteronormative standards, which American schools reinforce through activities, such as sports, affect boys’ ideas of themselves and their female peers.\n\nDiPrete and Buchmann synthesize other scholars’ work concerning conceptions of “masculinity” and its influence on male performance in American high schools. They use examples, such as survey data and student interviews, to highlight the fact that peer groups may be partially responsible for explaining male patterns of achievement. For example, they highlight research that suggests male students “gender” good academic performance.\n\nWhile studies have demonstrated the disparities between male and female students in STEM, a study by the \"American Association of University Women\" shows the unequal distribution of male students in subjects like English and the Arts. Notably, male students enroll in “remedial” English classes more often than their female counterparts. The authors posit that educators in these fields (especially in literature) may use learning techniques that girls prefer. This disparity between male-female enrollments in literature classes may also reflect the gendered ideas of students, as students enroll in classes most in line with their expressed gender identity.\n\nMales largely outnumber females in science, technology, engineering, and mathematics related careers, which are commonly referred to as STEM. This disparity can be contributed to a multitude of causes. The belief in stereotypes, lack of science self-confidence, and dissatisfaction with the way science education is presented are the primary issues preventing women from becoming more involved in STEM fields.\n\nThis scarcity of women is often compared to a leaky pipeline. As children, both boys and girls express equal amounts of interest in science, but as they age the girls slowly drop the subject in favor of more traditionally female fields. While this theory satisfactorily illustrates the changes at a younger age, the number of women in STEM fields does not change drastically once they enter college. Therefore, the issue is one of interest much earlier on.\n\nThroughout high school, the percentage of males interested in STEM careers changed from 39.5 to 39.7, effectively staying constant. Contrastingly, the percentage of females interested changed from 15.7 to 12.7. Not only are the initial interest levels over twice as low for females, they also drop by nearly 20%. This data suggests, then, that the differences between male and female interest in STEM subjects is developed from an early age and exacerbated through education. Many school systems present students with multiple paths of science education. If students have had negative experience with science, they are more likely to choose a path with fewer requirements. When female students reach the age where they begin to feel ostracized by their peers for a passion for science, they have an easy option to transition out of the field completely.\n\nMany studies have been performed with the intention of determining social effects on girls in STEM. In one sample, the girls had higher science grades than the boys. Nonetheless, they maintained equal self-confidence and reported higher levels of anxiety and stress because of the class. Many capable young women may be opting out of STEM fields because they feel inferior to their male classmates.\n\nClosing the gap between genders in STEM is vital for both women and the success of the fields themselves. The way to do this is through education. In February 2017 legislation such as “The Next Space Pioneers, Innovators, Researchers, and Explorers Women’s Act” and “The Promoting Women in Entrepreneur Act” was passed with the intention of encouraging more women and girls to study science, technology, engineering, and mathematics. Colleges across the country are implementing outreach programs designed to mentor and recruit female STEM students. One such example is IWITTS' CalWomenTech Project, which increased the City College of San Francisco's Computer Networking and Information Technology (CNIT) program’s female enrollment from 18.1% to 30.1%.\n\nGirls have often received higher grades than boys. Thomas A. DiPrete and Claudia Bachmann say one of the three main reasons for this is because girls show higher levels of attachment to school leading to a deeper sense of gratification when receiving these good grades. Students encourage school involvement if it is paired with the suitable behaviors of being popular, athletic, or participating in extracurricular activities according to Thomas A. DiPrete and Claudia Buchmann. However, girls express stronger connections to their education than boys. 90 percent of eighth grade males responded that good grades are important. 50 percent said that good grades are \"very\" important. Girls' value of their academic success was shown as closer to the perceived value of their parents than boys. 95 percent of girls reported that good grades are important to them, and 62 percent declared that good grades are \"very\" important. This gender gap continues even when the sample is shortened to just the high achieving boys and girls. This is portrayed by the 2 percent of girls that received A’s answering that grades are only somewhat important, contrasting the 6 percent of exceeding boys who would agree.\n\n65 percent of eighth grade males see themselves earning at least a bachelor’s degree. Girls’ educational aspirations are even higher. 75 percent of girls expect to get a bachelor’s degree, and 42 percent of girls expect to get a master’s or doctorate. The gender gap is massive at the doctoral level, seeing how this is nearly 50 percent more than for boys. Thomas A. DiPrete and Claudia Buchmann made the conclusion that since girls typically receive higher marks than boys, and children have a basic understanding that higher grades can lead to higher educational success, that it is reasonable for girls to have aspirations that surpass the boys. Thomas A. DiPrete and Claudia Bachmann said these students’ attachment to school could help one to understand their value of their marks and education. Students who are only drawn to school because of an understanding that it is essential for a high salary career can be said to have an “instrumental attachment”. They understand school to be an “instrument” that they use to achieve their goal. In contrast, students may have school attachment because they are invested emotionally and receive a great sentiment of success from it, especially when obtaining positive regard from teachers. Students had answered questions relating to whether they felt attached to their school and teachers. Boys did not show as much amount of attachment to school as girls did.\n\nAll in all, girls express more support than boys for immediate academic success and long-term scholastic goals . Girls’ inspiration for long-term educational success could also be contributed by a higher satisfaction of school and the instant fulfilment they get from a great performance. Thomas A. DiPrete and Claudia Bachmann believe these two forces could be working in unison with each other.\n\nSex discrimination in education persists beyond graduation, influencing one’s process of entering the workforce. Networking trends, gender norms, and the perception of parenthood differ based on one’s gender. A study done by Lindsey Trimble was conducted to understand how gender influences job networking. Through extensive research, the results shed light on a host of variances in both the execution of networking and its success levels between men and women. Firstly, people are more likely to find a job through same-gender contacts (about 65%), most of which are found through social functions that are already segregated by sex. Gender norms influence this networking process as well. Certain jobs are commonly perceived as only being fit for one gender. For example, only 9% of nurses are male, while only 4% of women work in local sheriff departments. Furthermore, women only make up 4% of CEO positions at S&P 500 companies. Thus, if people are finding jobs through same-gender contacts, these contacts are most likely in gender-segregated positions themselves, perpetuating gender inequality within the job selection process. These gender norms influence how decisions are made regarding whom to network for and whom to hire. People are more likely to help someone out if they think they're fit for the particular job. Gender is often considered to be one of the many indicators of an individual's level of capability. This could lead a contact to assist a man over a woman for careers considered more masculine. Employers decision making process is influenced by gender stereotypes as well. For example, assertiveness is often considered to be a sign of strength or good leadership in a man, yet, on the contrary, can cause others to think a woman is too opinionated or bossy. Additionally, parenthood affects one’s chance of being hired differently based on one's gender. Fatherhood is associated with a greater chance of getting a promotion, while motherhood decreases promotion rates, especially if the children are younger. Statistically, women experience internal promotion rates that are 34–46% lower than for men. Another aspect of parenthood that creates workforce discrimination is the presence of a societal pressure put on women to stay at home with their children. Not only could this make employers less inclined to hire a woman for time-consuming jobs, but it leaves a stigma on mothers who chose to work full-time, something men don't experience. Workforce discrimination is the result of a very complex list of causes, including gender norms and stereotypes, networking patterns, and the perception of parenthood. By better understanding these concepts, one can begin to combat them and create more gender equality.\n"}
{"id": "3507316", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3507316", "title": "Shiriana", "text": "Shiriana\n\nThe Shiriana (sometimes called the Xiriâna) are a Native American tribe of Brazil with a current population of approximately 1,000. They speak the Shiriana language, and are primarily animists. Most live in the Brazilian state of Amazonas, but there are small groups living as well in Venezuela, near the Demeni and the Rio Negro.\n"}
{"id": "18870806", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18870806", "title": "Singpho dialect", "text": "Singpho dialect\n\nSingpho is a dialect of the Jingpho language spoken by the Singpho people of Arunachal Pradesh and Assam. It is spoken by at least 3,000 people. \"Singpho\" is the local pronunciation of \"Jingpho\".\n\nThe Jingpho/Singpho (Jinghpaw, Chingp'o), or Kachin, language is a Tibeto-Burman language mainly spoken in Kachin State, Burma (Myanmar) and Yunnan Province, China. The term Kachin language can refer either to the Jingpho language or to a group of languages spoken by various ethnic groups in the same region as Jingpo: Lisu, Lachit, Rawang, Zaiwa, Lhaovo, Achang (Ngo Chang), and Jingpho. These languages are from distinct branches of the highest level of the Tibeto-Burman family. Total estimated native speakers are 950,000 (2001 census).\n\nSingpho is spoken the eastern extreme of northeastern India, such as Bordumsa Circle, Tirap District, Arunachal Pradesh, and also in nearby parts of Lohit District (Dasgupta 1979).\n\n"}
{"id": "57907533", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57907533", "title": "Siraj Raisani", "text": "Siraj Raisani\n\nMir Siraj Khan Raisani (4 April 1963 – 13 July 2018) was a Pakistani politician who belonged to the Balochistan Awami Party. He was assassinated in a suicide bombing while campaigning for his seat prior to the 2018 general elections. He is considered Pakistan's hero for his heroic acts he has done for Pakistan, he is a hero who lost his life for the country. He proved to be the only Baloch leader to be so patriotic to Pakistan, he raised the longest flag of Pakistan on 14th august. Pakistan and Balochistan has seen very few people like him\n\nBorn in Mehrgarh, Balochistan into the family of the Raisani tribe patriarch, Siraj Raisani was the youngest of 9 brothers. \n\nHe came from a politically distinguished family. His father, Ghous Bakhsh Raisani, served as the governor of the Balochistan province between 1970 and 1971. His eldest brother Aslam Raisani served as the 13th Chief Minister of Balochistan from 2008 to 2013. Another of his brothers, Lashkari Raisani, served as a senator in the Senate of Pakistan from 2009 to 2015. Siraj himself, was head of his father's Balochistan Muttahida Mahaz (Balochistan United Front) party until June 2018, when he merged it into the newly-formed Balochistan Awami Party.\n\nSiraj Raisani obtained his early education from government institutions in Bolan. He then went on to get a bachelors degree in agronomy from the Sindh Agriculture University in Tando Jam. After that he undertook a course in floriculture from an academic institute in the Netherlands.\n\nRaisani held strong pro-federation views in the restive province of Balochistan which has seen a drawn out, low-level insurgency since 1948. He was a staunch supporter of the Pakistan Army and held annual rallies to celebrate Pakistan's Independence Day in the province. He also held the record of making the longest Pakistani flag.\n\nHe wanted to unite the various tribes of Balochistan in pursuit of the province's rights. Upon joining the Balochistan Awami Party (BAP) in June 2018, he said that the decision was made keeping in view the \"BAP's mission to unite people from all tribes and ethnic backgrounds living in the province for the rights of the province.\"\n\nRaisani also blamed India for funding the insurgency in the province and consequently possessed extreme anti-India views. He often posted pictures of himself on social media while degrading the Indian flag – including standing on it and wrapping it around his boots.\n\nWhile on the trail in his campaign for the Balochistan Provincial Assembly seat of PB-35 (Mastung), he had held a political gathering in the Daringarh area of the Mastung District on 13 July 2018. He was about to address the people gathered inside the ceremonial tent and had just taken to the stage when a powerful suicide blast ripped through the audience. Siraj Raisani was one of the 131 people who were killed in the attack. Islamic State of Iraq and Levant claimed responsibility for the bombing. However most of the people believe that it was set up by India because of Siraj Khan being a threat to RAW agents in Pakistan\n\nRaisani was laid to rest in his ancestral graveyard in Kanak area of Mastung on 14 July 2018. His funeral was attended by dignitaries from across Pakistan, including army chief, Qamar Javed Bajwa and interim Chief Minister of Baluchistan, Alauddin Marri. A day of national mourning was also declared.\n"}
{"id": "24361740", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24361740", "title": "Srirangam Gopalaratnam", "text": "Srirangam Gopalaratnam\n\nSrirangam Gopalaratnam(1939 - 16 March 1993) is a Telugu singer. She is distinguished in the exposition of Kuchipudi, Yakshagana, Javali and Yenki Patalu.\n\nShe was born to Varadachari and Subhadramma at Pushpagiri in Vizianagaram district. She underwent training in music under Kavirayaneri Joga Rao and Dr. Sripada Pinakapani. She had taken a diploma in music in 1956. She gave Harikathas as child prodigy.\n\nShe had taken active part in the Bhakthi Ranjani programmes of All India Radio. Had set to tune Annamacharya compositions. She has held posts as Artiste, All India Radio, Principal of Government Music College, Hyderabad, Professor and Dean of Telugu University\n\nShe has worked as Principal of Maharajah's Government College of Music and Dance, Vizianagaram between 1979 and 1980.\n\nSrirangam's famous Kannada film song \"Krishnana kolalina kare\" from the movie 'Subbashashtry' (1966) is still popular in all over Karnataka, even after 5 decades.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55931760", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55931760", "title": "Stree Mukti Sanghatana", "text": "Stree Mukti Sanghatana\n\nStree Mukti Sanghatana (Women's liberation organization) is a Non-Governmental Organisation founded in 1975 working for the empowerment of women, chiefly by creating awareness in the society about women’s issues and improving the lives of women through education, healthcare, and gender equality. It is an autonomous, registered organization that is not affiliated with any political party or political group.\n\nIt has centers in Dadar, Chembur, Parel, and Govandi in Mumbai, Vashi and Koparkhairane in Navi Mumbai and Thane. Other cities like Pune, Buldana and Osmanabad also have centres. \n\nStree Mukti Sanghatana (SMS) was founded in 1975 by Jyoti Mhapsekar, Sharada Sathe and others.\n\nSMS lists the following missions on its website.\nSMS works in the fields of Women's rights, education, healthcare, gender equality and environment. \n\nThe organization runs 10 daycare centers for children of working mothers. \n\nIts adolescent sensitization program called \"Jidnyasa\" (Curiosity) is oriented towards school going children covering gender issues, stress management, \"saying no to drugs\", sexuality and environmental concerns.\nIt has set up seven family counselling centers that help women who are victims of domestic abuse. \n\nFor awareness, the play performed by the SMS cultural troupe 'Mulgi Zhali Ho (A Girl is Born)'.\n\nIt publishes a magazine called \"\"Prerak Lalkari' (Clarion Call) in Marathi.\n\nSMS began work with rag pickers in 1998, with the launch of Parisar Vikas. Parisar Vikas, one of the NGO's key programmes, aims to recycle waste and create zero-waste cities. It aims to organize the waste-pickers, educate them, and provide the women with health and counselling services. More than 5,000 women have so far benefitted from the organization’s continued pursuit of its goal that waste-picking should be given its rightful place in the economy of a city. \nSMS was responsible for setting up the city’s first child-care center for children of waste-picker women, started an adult literacy campaign in Chembur and aided the formation of the rag-pickers’ union in 1989-90. In 2004, the Federation of self-help groups of Waste pickers was registered. It has raised resources for educating more than 5,000 children of waste-picker women so far. \n\nIn 2003, SMS operated the first bio-gas plant for the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). Since then, it has obtained contractual work with several educational institutes, residential colonies and business centers for maintaining and operating bio-gas plants and compost pits.\n\nFrom 2013 - 2015 SMS successfully completed the \"Decentralized waste recycling and management by the association of waste-pickers in the city of Mumbai\" a project sanctioned by UNDP (SGP) \n\nIn 1999, SMS was accredited with ECOSOC (UNITED NATIONS).\n"}
{"id": "18410308", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18410308", "title": "Swedish Serbs", "text": "Swedish Serbs\n\nSerbs () began migrating to Sweden in large numbers in the 1960s, as part of the migrant work-agreement signed with the Yugoslav government to help Sweden overcome its severe labour shortage. The Yugoslav wars saw another influx of Serbs. The Serbs in Sweden are one of the largest Serb diaspora communities.\n\nSerbs constituted a low percentage of the Swedish population prior to the 1960s. Some came after World War II, mostly seeking political asylum. The greatest proportion of Serbs came together with Greeks, Italians and Turks under the visa agreements in times of severe labour shortages or when particular skills were deficient within Sweden, as migrant workers (called \"Arbetskraftsinvandring\", see \"gastarbeiter\"). During the 1960s and 1970s, agreements were signed with the government of Yugoslavia to help Sweden overcome its severe labour shortage.\n\nBosnian and Croatian Serbs migrated in another wave during and after the Yugoslav wars. Another wave of Kosovo Serbs came during the Kosovo war in 1999.\n\nThe Swedish census data includes country of birth, but does not include ethnicity, descendants or naturalized people, thus, the total number of ethnic Serbs in Sweden is hard to define. Various estimations include: 80,000; 110,000; 120,000; and 140,000. Aco Dragićević, writing for the Swedish-Serbian newspaper \"Dijaspora\", wrote in 2002 that some 200,000 Yugoslavs, regardless of ethnic origin, migrated to Sweden during the Second Yugoslavia (1945-1992); of these, roughly 40% (ca. 80,000) he believed to be Serbs.\n\nThe Serbs in Sweden are bilingual. The Serbian language is a rich contributor to the so-called Rinkeby Swedish, a sociolect (slang) of the Swedish language.\n\nIn 1972 the first Serbian Orthodox parish (of \"St. Nicholas\") was formed in Västerås, prior to the forming the Serbs were headed by Swedish Orthodox priest Christofer Klasson, previously priest in the Church of Sweden. Later, the same year a parish was formed in Malmö (of \"Saints Cyrils and Methodius\") and in 1973 one in Stockholm (of \"Saint Sava\"). Later, parishes have been formed in Göteborg (of \"Stefan Decanski\"), Jönköping (of \"Nativity of Mary\"), Helsingborg (of \"St Basil the Great\") and one more in Stockholm. The parishes have their own head-priest.\n\nIn Malmö, 1982, the Church of Saint Cyril and Methodius was opened, the first Serbian church in Sweden. The parish of Saint Sava opened its church in Enskede, in 1983, the parish in Göteborg also has a church.\n\nThe parish in Malmö suffered several attacks in 1990, the premises were firebombed but the church was not damaged, the perpetrators were racist youths who were later convicted of arson.\n\nThe SOC has parishes and churches in the cities of:\n\nStockholm-based Östblocket and Macedonian-Swedish Andra Generationen are both Balkan Brass Bands, playing a musical style from southern Serbia.\n\nSwedish Serbs have been very successful in sports, among most notable are\n\nThe Stockholm Eagles is a Serbian-Swedish basketball team that has become very successful since its establishment in 2007. They won the Swedish second league (Basketettan) back to back 2011 and 2012 and became the only team in Sweden to win 34 victories in a row.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36947296", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36947296", "title": "The Gold Bar Reporter", "text": "The Gold Bar Reporter\n\nThe Gold Bar Reporter is an online activist community website based around Gold Bar, Washington.\n\n\"The Gold Bar Reporter\" was first published in 2006.\n\nIts founder, Ann Block, is a former lawyer who was disbarred by the Washington State Bar Association in 2016. Since her disbarment, Ms. Block has used the Gold Bar Reporter to voice her personal grievances against the Washington State Bar Association and local lawyers.\n"}
{"id": "3488502", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3488502", "title": "Unión Nacional de Trabajadores de Venezuela", "text": "Unión Nacional de Trabajadores de Venezuela\n\nThe National Workers' Union of Venezuela (, UNT) is a federation of labor unions in Venezuela that was founded in 2003. This union was created by supporters of Venezuelan president Hugo Chávez to challenge the Workers' Confederation of Venezuela (CTV), an anti-Chávez union federation that has strong ties with the centrist Democratic Action (AD). Many unions have disaffiliated from the CTV and joined with the UNT. Because of this, the UNT has become the biggest union federation in Venezuela whose contracts cover the majority of Venezuela's organized working class.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7401533", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7401533", "title": "Up Your Alley Fair", "text": "Up Your Alley Fair\n\nThe Up Your Alley Fair, most commonly referred to by locals as Dore Alley Fair or simply Dore Alley is a leather and fetish event held in San Francisco, California on the last Sunday of July on Folsom Street between 9th and 10th Streets and on Dore Street from Howard Street to half a block southeast of Folsom Street. The streets are lined with vendors' booths, and a sound stage (for dancing) is located at the 10th Street end of Folsom Street.\n\nThe first Up Your Alley Street Fair was held in 1985 on Ringold Street between 8th and 9th Streets. The event was moved to its current location on Folsom Street at Dore Street in 1987. Among the original rationales for this fair was to illustrate, in the face of redevelopment pressures, that the South of Market neighborhood was already home to a community and that this community was still active and organized in spite of the AIDS epidemic.\n\nRun by the same non-profit organization that produces the much larger Folsom Street Fair, the world's largest BDSM fetish and leather event, Up Your Alley Fair draws several thousand fetish enthusiasts and onlookers and serves not only as a \"warm-up\" event for the organizers but also as a less tourist-focused event for locals. This fair is one of many large neighborhood street fairs San Francisco has weekly towards the end of summer, ending with the Castro Street Fair the first weekend of October. \n\nTreasure Island Media, Hot Desert Knights and Titan Media are regular attendants.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40927088", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40927088", "title": "Uruguayans in France", "text": "Uruguayans in France\n\nUruguayans in France are people born in Uruguay who emigrated to France. \n\nFrench culture has long had a strong influence in Uruguay, with its secondary education and University tailored to the French model. This is a reason why many Uruguayans have found France attractive as a country to pursue higher studies; many of them decided to stay.\n\nDuring the civic-military dictatorship of Uruguay (1973-1985), some expatriates spent their exile years in France. There are as well a number of French-born people of Uruguayan descent.\n\nExpatriate Uruguayans have their own institutions in France, such as the Consultative Council in Paris.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23734584", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23734584", "title": "Walloons in the Netherlands", "text": "Walloons in the Netherlands\n\nThe history and presence of the Walloon people, i.e. francophone Belgians, in the Netherlands goes back to the foundation process of the Dutch state. Even more so, the region now known as Wallonia was part of the historical Southern Netherlands, a region now divided between the Netherlands, Belgium and the French Nord-Pas-de-Calais.\n\nHowever, even after the foundation of the previously mentioned nations cross-border migration continued towards the Netherlands. Particularly, this was the case in the border area now of the Netherlands (Limburg province), Belgium (Limburg and Liège provinces) and Germany (North Rhine-Westphalia). In 1840, 10 years after the independence and incorporation of Wallonia into Belgium, the population of the Dutch Limburgian capital Maastricht comprised 8.6% Belgian-born persons with 40% of these persons originating from Wallonia fuelling the competition between the Dutch and French languages in the city.\n"}
{"id": "51049781", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51049781", "title": "Women's Museum of California", "text": "Women's Museum of California\n\nThe Women's Museum of California (WMofC) is a nonprofit museum located in San Diego, California and dedicated to women's history. It was first organized under the names the Women's History Reclamation Project and then the Women's History Museum and Educational Center. It was founded in 1983. In addition to exhibits and programs offered, the WMofC also co-founded and hosts the San Diego County Women's Hall of Fame. The museum is located at Liberty Station and has exhibit space, archives, a library and a store that features items made exclusively by women. Other museum offerings include speakers and monthly lecture series.\n\nThe museum had its roots with the women's rights activist, Mary B. Maschal who collected items from women's history in her home. The home had formally belonged to a suffragist, Veronica Burke. Maschal had been collecting artifacts relating to women's history since the 1970s. She finally opened her collection to the public in 1983, naming it the Women's History Reclamation Project (WHRP). Maschal felt a passion for collecting artifacts because of her \"own disappointment over the lack of knowledge about women's history among the younger generation.\" Maschal also received a grant in 1984 in order to conduct and collect oral history interviews.\n\nMaschal moved her collection to the Art Union Building in Golden Hill in 1997. Maschel died in 1998, and Sue Gonda took over the museum. In 2000, the museum sponsored a Women's History Poetry contest, which was held at the same time as an exhibit titled In Our Own Voice: women's History through Women's Poetry. The museum co-created the San Diego County Women's Hall of Fame in 2001. In 2003, the project changed its name to the Women's History Museum and Educational Center (WHMEC).\n\nThe Women's History Museum and Educational Center changed its name again, this time to the Women's Museum of California (WMofC) in 2011. They concurrently updated the museum logo. WMC also moved to the Liberty Station Promenade in Point Loma in 2012. The new location was three times larger than their former location at Golden Hill.\n\nPart of the museum is a library and archive. The Helen Hawkins Memorial Library and Research Archive includes books and several special collections. Part of the special collections is the Alice Park Archive which collects artifacts from the women's suffrage movement from the late 19th century and early 20th century. The special collections also include papers documenting the career of Lucy Killea, a collection of materials relating to the UN Conference on the Status of Women and the Neff-LeClair Collection of period women's clothing dating from the 18th century on.\n\nThe Hall of Fame was created in 2001, partly through the WMofC and other organizations. Some organizations that have partnered with WMofC for the hall of fame include the Girl Scouts, MANA, A National Latina Organization and Executive Women International. In other years, other groups, such as the Commission on the Status of Women, San Diego State University's department of Women's Studies and the Women's Center of the University of California, San Diego have participated. Inductions into the hall of fame take place during Women's History Month. Each year about five women are inducted.\n\nThe San Diego County Women's Hall of Fame mission is \"to acknowledge and honor women who have significantly contributed to the quality of life and who have made outstanding volunteer contributions in San Diego County.\"\n\n"}
