{"id": "18591857", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18591857", "title": "2008 Kunming bus bombings", "text": "2008 Kunming bus bombings\n\nThe 2008 Kunming bus bombings occurred on 21 July 2008 when explosions aboard two public buses in downtown Kunming, the capital of southwest China's Yunnan province, killed two people. The explosions were deliberate, according to police. The attacks occurred amid heightened tensions due to the Beijing Olympics. China later said the explosions were \"not an act of terrorism\".\n\nThe blasts occurred about an hour apart during morning rush hour traffic in downtown Kunming, the city's police department said in a statement. The first blast occurred at about 7:00 am (2300 GMT Sunday) when the vehicle was at a bus stop, killing one woman and injuring 10 other people, the statement from Kunming police said. \"The glass on both sides of the vehicle was all shattered and some of the seats were warped,\" it said. The second blast came about an hour later on the same road and killed one man, injuring four others, according to the statement.\n\nFootage broadcast on state-run television showed a large hole blown in the side of one of the buses and extensive damage to its interior. Photos posted on the Yunnan Daily website showed one of the vehicle's windows blown out by the blast and shattered glass on the road.\n\nFollowing the blasts, police cordoned off some streets in the area and carried out identity checks in a search for any \"suspicious\" persons, the Yunnan Public Security Bureau said in a statement.\n\nOn 26 July 2008, an alleged video of a group calling itself the Turkestan Islamic Party, claimed to have carried out bomb attacks on the buses in Kunming, along with an attack in May 2008 in Shanghai. The Washington-based IntelCenter, which monitors terrorism communications, claimed the group released a video entitled \"Our Blessed Jihad in Yunnan\". In it, the group's leader, Commander Seyfullah, claimed credit for several attacks and threatened this month's Olympics. \"Despite the Turkestan Islamic Party's repeated warnings to China and international community about stopping the 29th Olympics in Beijing, the Chinese have haughtily ignored our warnings,\" IntelCenter quoted him as saying. \"The Turkestan Islamic Party volunteers who had gone through special preparations have started urgent actions.\"\n\nHowever, China's foreign ministry said that it examined IntelCenter's claims and dismissed the claims, concluding that the group was not behind the attack.\n\nAfter a premature bombing of Salvador's Cafe (a popular cafe and restaurant amongst expats) on Christmas Eve that year failed to kill anyone but injured the bomber, Police interrogated the man responsible, Li Yan, and determined that he was also behind the bus bombings over the summer. The bomber died of his injuries.\n"}
{"id": "11931355", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11931355", "title": "Ages of consent in South America", "text": "Ages of consent in South America\n\nThe ages of consent for sexual activity vary by jurisdiction across South America. The specific activity engaged in or the gender of its participants can also be affected by the law. Below is a discussion of the various laws dealing with this subject. The highlighted age refers to an age at or above which an individual can engage in unfettered sexual relations with another who is also at or above that age. Other variables, for example close-in-age exemptions, may exist and are noted when relevant. In South America, the only country where male same-sex sexual conduct is illegal is Guyana, and the only countries with a higher age of consent for same-sex sexual relations than opposite-sex ones are Chile and Paraguay.\n\nThe below is a list of all jurisdictions in South America as listed in List of sovereign states and dependent territories in South America.\n\nIn South America, many countries have different levels of protection or of restriction for sexual activities with minors. The age at which there are no restrictions indicates the moment when someone reaches full sexual autonomy with respect to the law, while the minimum age of consent shows the minimum age at which someone can legally give consent, however under certain restrictions or circumstances. Sexual acts with someone under this minimum age are legally classified as sexual abuse. The extent and nature of these restrictions or circumstances vary according to the country and are explained below in the proper section.\n\nIn Argentina, the age at which there are no restrictions for sexual activities is 18, regardless of gender or sexual orientation.\n\nSexual acts with children younger than 13 are strictly illegal. Sexual relations with teens 13-18 are addressed by several laws. None of these laws explicitly outlaws such relations, but makes them open to prosecution under certain circumstances (such as if the relation is considered exploitative or if the minor was \"corrupted\").\n\nRestrictions apply for sex with adolescents between the ages of 13 and 16 (Argentine Penal Code, Article 120). Charges can be brought only after a complaint by the minor, their parent or guardian - (Argentine Penal Code Article 72) (however, the State prosecutes when the minor has no parent or legal guardian, or when the offender is one of them).\n\nThe restrictions mentioned above (for ages between 13 and 16) apply whenever someone over 18, taking advantage of the sexual immaturity of the minor or of his/her superiority (\"preeminencia\") with respect to the minor, practices one of the following acts:\n\n(Arg. Penal Code, Article 120 combined with Article 119, 1st and 3rd paragraphs).\n\nThere is also a further Argentine law, 'Corruption of minors', which can bring charges to those manipulating minors below the age of 18 into having sexual relations - (Argentine Penal Code Article 125 - in Spanish).\n\nArticle 125 reads:\n\nARTICULO 125. - El que promoviere o facilitare \"la corrupción de menores de dieciocho años\", \"aunque mediare el consentimiento de la víctima\" será reprimido con reclusión o prisión de tres a diez años.\n\nApproximate translation: ARTICLE 125. - Anyone who promotes or facilitates the \"corruption of persons under eighteen\", \"even with the consent of the victim\" shall be punished with seclusion or imprisonment of three to ten years.\n\nPenalties are aggravated in three situations:\n\n\nThe age of consent in Bolivia is set at 14, per Article 308 Bis, \"Violación Infantes, Niña, Niño y Adolescentes\", which punishes rape (\"violacion\") of children under 14, \"even without the use of force or intimidation and when consent is alleged\" (\"así no haya uso de la fuerza o intimidación y se alegue consentimiento\"). There is a close in age exemption of three years.\n\nIn Brazil, the age of consent is 14, regardless of gender or sexual orientation, with a judicial precedent showing that a close-in-age exception that allows those aged 12 and 13 to engage in sexual activity with partners who are 5 years older or less is legal, although not legally formalized. The age at which there are no restrictions for sexual activities is 18.\n\nSex with minors below the age of 14, at least for all those older than 18, is equivalent to statutory rape and is legally defined by Article 217-A of the Brazilian Penal Code (see text here in Portuguese) as the \"rape of a vulnerable person\", with a penalty of 8 to 15 years in prison.\n\nThe prostitution of minors (all ages under 18) is punished by law and is prosecuted by the State, according to the Code of Minors (Article 244-A), as well as according to the Penal Code, Articles 218-B, 227, 230, 231 and 231-A. The law makes no distinctions between sexual orientation cases.\n\nIn any case, only individuals aged 18 or older can be legally charged, since this is the Brazilian age of criminal responsibility according to the Federal Constitution, Article 228.\n\nThe Brazilian Imperial Code, in its Article 219, added by Notice 512 of 1862, established the age of 17 for the legal presumption of violence in sexual relations. Later on, the Republican Penal Code of 1890, in its Article 272, lowered this age to 16.\n\nThe Penal Code of 1940 lowered the presumption of violence in sexual acts (equivalent of statutory rape) to 14 (Article 224, “a”, of the then Penal Code), but consensual sex with adolescents aged 14 to 17 could still be prosecuted under “corruption of minors” (Article 218) or “seduction of minors” (Article 217) while, in both cases, only parents could file charges to form a lawsuit (Article 225).\n\nSex with young adolescents aged 12 or 13, although under the age of statutory rape, were then also prosecuteable only by parents (Article 225) (see old version of the 1940 Penal Code here – in Portuguese), while sex with those younger than 12 was prosecuted by the State based on the legal definition of child (Article 2nd of the Code of Minors).\n\nAs an exception, the State could prosecute the offender when the minor was at any age below 18 but only when the family of the minor was so poor that they couldn’t afford a lawsuit (Penal Code, article 225, I) or when the offender was the father, mother, stepfather, stepmother or legal guardian of the minor (Penal Code, article 225, II).\n\nOn March 2005, the crime of seduction of minors (Article 217 of the then Penal Code) was abolished by the Brazilian Congress. It was applicable only when the victim was a virgin woman between 14 and 18.\n\nOn August 2009, the crime of corruption of minors (former Article 218 of the Penal Code) referring to consensual acts with adolescents aged 14 to 17 without parental consent was abolished by Law 12.015/2009. The crime was replaced with a new one under the same name but now applicable to sexual acts with minors below 14, however prosecuteable not more by legal guardians but by the State (according to the new Article 225 of the Penal Code).\n\nThe crime of sexual harassment (Article 216-A of the present Penal Code) practiced in situations of hierarchical superiority or ascendency in a job, position or occupation is now punisheable with a higher penalty if the victim is younger than 18 years old (2nd Paragraph).\n\nIn Chile, the age at which there are no restrictions for sexual activities is 18, while the minimum age of consent is 14. Limitations exist between 14 and 18 years old (Art. 362 Chilean Penal Code). Even when not clearly stated in Article 362, later on, in Article 365, homosexual activity is declared illegal with anyone under 18 years old.\n\nArt. 362. El que accediere carnalmente, por vía vaginal, anal o bucal, a una persona menor de catorce años, será castigado con presidio mayor en cualquiera de sus grados, aunque no concurra circunstancia alguna de las enumeradas en el artículo anterior.\n\nThere also exists in the Chilean Penal Code, a legal figure called estupro. This figure establishes some limitations to sexual contacts with children older than 14 and younger than 18 years old. The \"estupro\" legislation (Article 363) defines four situations in which sex with such a children can be declared illegal even if the minor consented to the relationship (non-consensual sex with anyone older than 14 y.o. falls under the rape legislation, Article 361; while any sexual contact with anyone under 14 y.o. falls under the statutory rape legislation, Article 362.):\n\n\nThe sexual acts regulated by Articles 361 (rape), 362 (statutory rape), 363 (\"estupro\") and 365 (homosexual sex) are defined as \"carnal access\" (\"acceso carnal\"), which means either oral, anal or vaginal intercourse. Other articles within the penal code regulate other sexual interactions (Articles 365 bis, 366, 366 bis, 366 ter, 366 quarter). Article 365 bis, regulates the \"introduction of objects\" either in the anus, vagina or mouth. Article 366 bis, defines \"sexual act\" as any relevant act with sexual significance accomplished by physical contact with the victim, or affecting the victim's genitals, anus or mouth even when no physical contact occurred.\n\nArticle 369 states that charges relating to these offenses (Articles 361 to 365) can be brought only after a complaint by the minor or the minor's parent, guardian or legal representative. Nevertheless, if the offended party cannot freely file the complaint and lacks a legal representative, parent of guardian, or if the legal representative, parent or guardian is involved in the crime, the Public Ministry may proceed by its own.\n\nIn 1810, the age of consent for opposite-sex activity was 12. In 1999, the age of consent was set at 14 for both girls and boys in relation to heterosexual sex. Homosexual acts were decriminalized in 1999, with an age of consent of 18. In 2011, the \"Tribunal Constitucional de Chile\" confirmed that the age of consent is 14 for heterosexual relations (for both girls and boys), as well as for lesbian relations (Woman-girl), but it is 18 for male homosexual relations.\n\nThe Criminal Code of Colombia (Act 599 of 2000) as it was modified by article 4 of law 1236 of 2008, sets the age of consent at 14, regardless of gender or sexual orientation.\n\nArt 208 states:\nEl que acceda carnalmente a persona menor de catorce (14) años, incurrirá en prisión de doce (12) a veinte (20) años.\nArt 209 states: El que realizare actos sexuales diversos del acceso carnal con persona menor\nde catorce (14) años o en su presencia, o la induzca a prácticas sexuales, incurrirá en prisión de nueve (9) a trece (13) años.\n\nUnder the new Criminal Code, which came into force in 2014, the minimum age of consent in Ecuador is 14, regardless of gender or sexual orientation. However, sexual acts with teens aged between 14 and 18 can still be prosecuted in certain circumstances. An adult who uses deceit (engaño) to gain the consent of an underage youth (aged between 14 – 18 years) can be prosecuted under the \"Estupro\" law (Article 167);\nalso when consent is obtained through exploitative means the act can be prosecuted under the \"Childhood and Adolescence Code\" of 2003- \"Article 68\".\n\nSex with a child under 14 is considered rape under Artículo 171.- \"Violación\", which reads: \"It is considered rape the carnal access (...) 3. when the victim is under 14.\"\n\nThe Childhood and Adolescence Code of 2003, in its Article 68, have broadened the definition of sexual abuse of minors to include any physical contact or suggestion of sexual nature obtained through seduction, blackmail, harassment, deceit, threat or similar means.\n\nThe age of sexual consent in the Falkland Islands is 16, regardless of sexual orientation or gender since 2006.\n\nThe age of sexual consent is 16, regardless of sexual orientation or gender since 2006.\n\nThe age of consent in Guyana is 16.\nThe age of consent was raised from 13 to 16 on October 31, 2005, by a unanimous resolution of the Guyanese parliament.\nWhilst male homosexual 'indecency' and all attempted anal sex carries a 10-year sentence, anal sex itself is punishable with life imprisonment. Female homosexual activity is not mentioned in the 1860 “buggery laws”.\n\nThe general age of consent in Paraguay is 14 for heterosexual relations and 16 for homosexual \n\nArticle 135 of the Paraguayan Penal Code, which covers the sexual abuse of children, defines child (\"“niño”\"), for the purposes of the article, as anyone under 14 (see 8th clause). Sexual acts in general with a child under 14 are punished with up to three years in prison or a fine (1st clause). The same penalties occur when sexual acts are performed by the adult \"before\" someone under 14 or are headed to him, or when the child is induced to practice it (with another child) \"before\" an adult or with a third person. In case of sexual penetration (\"“coito”\"), the term is aggravated to three to twelve years in prison (4th clause). If the victim is under 10, penalties may increase in up to fifteen extra years (4th clause, changed by Law 3440/2008). When the offender is under 18, accusations may be lifted (6th clause).\n\nArticle 138 of the same Code, called “Homosexual acts with minors”, reads: “Who, being over the age of majority, performs sexual acts with a person of the same sex between the ages of 14 and 16, will be punished with up to two years in prison or with fine”.(see, click link in \"texto completo\").\n\nThere is also a further crime called \"estupro\" (Article 137), which is defined as “extramarital sex” (adultery) practiced with female adolescents between 14 and 16. This crime is punished with a fine and applies when one of the partners is married. If the offender is under 18, accusations may be lifted.\n\nArticle 137 of the Penal Code reads: “(1) The man who persuades a woman from 14 to 16 to perform extramarital coitus (sexual intercourse) will be punished with fine; (2) When the defendant is under 18 the penalty may be disconsidered.” (see sources above).\n\nThe age of consent in Peru has changed several times during recent years, and has been subject to political debates, but today it is fixed at 14, regardless of gender or sexual orientation, in accordance with a 2012 decision of the Constitutional Court of Peru. Articles 173 and 176 of the Criminal Code are the relevant prohibitions against sexual conduct with children under 14. Consensual sexual acts with youth aged 14 – 18 are not illegal, although there is a prohibition against using deceit, abuse of power or use of the vulnerability of a teenager to gain sexual access to a minor under 18. (Article 175).\n\nThe age of consent in Uruguay stands at 15 regardless of gender or sexual orientation.\n\nBetween the ages of 12 and 15, there is an intermediary status where violence is legally presumed until otherwise proven. In this case, the \"onus probandi\" (the burden of proof) shifts from the plaintiff to the accused, who still has the chance to prove in their defense that consent was given. Below the age of 12 proof of consent is not a defense.\n\nUruguay also has a \"Corruption of minors\" law, which can bring charges to those manipulating minors below the age of 18 into having sexual relations -. For ages over 15, however, a lawsuit can be initiated only by a minor or the minor's parents, except when the minor has no parents or legal guardian; or where the accusation is brought against a parent or legal guardian.\n\nThe age of consent in Suriname is 16 (altered from 14 until 2009.)\n\nAlthough the legal age of sexual consent is 16 years old, it not enforced effectively. The marriage law sets the age of marital consent at 15 years old for girls and 17 years old for boys, provided that parents of the parties agree to the marriage. Parental permission to marry is required up to the age of 21. The law also mandates the presence of a civil registry official to register all marriages.\n\nSee also:\n\nThe age of consent in Venezuela stands at 16, regardless of gender or sexual orientation. Sexual acts with children aged between 12 and 16 are punished under Article 378; furthermore, consensual sex with a woman aged between 16 and 21 can be punished if the woman was \"seduced\" under the promise of marriage, and she was \"known to be honest\".\n\nArtículo 378 del Código Penal Venezolano:\n\n\" El que tuviere acto carnal con persona mayor de (12) y menor de (16) años, o ejecutare en ella actos lascivos, sin ser su ascendiente, tutor ni institutor y aunque no medie ninguna de las circunstancias previstas en el artículo 374, será castigado con prisión de seis a dieciocho meses y la pena será doble si el author del delito es el primero que corrompe a la persona agraviada.\nEl acto carnal ejecutado en mujer mayor de (16) años y menor de (21) con su consentimiento, es punible cuando hubiere seducción con promesa matrimonial y la mujer fuere conocidamente honesta; en tal caso la pena será de seis meses a un año de prisión.\nSe considerará como circunstancia agravante especial, en los delitos a que se contrae este artículo, la de haberse valido el culpable de las gestiones de los ascendientes, guardadores o representantes legales u otras personas encargadas de vigilar la persona menor de edad o de los oficios de proxenetas o de corruptores habituales.\n\nApproximate translation: Article 378: \"Whoever has sexual intercourse with a person over twelve, (12) years and younger than sixteen (16), years or implements it obscene acts without their influence, guardian or settlor and although it is not bound by any of the circumstances provided for in Article 374, will punishable by six to 18 months imprisonment and the penalty is doubled if the offender is the first that corrupts the injured party.\nthe carnal act performed in women over sixteen (16) years and younger than twenty one years (21), with their consent, is punishable if any seduction with promise of marriage and the woman I be honest with knowledge of the facts; in which case the penalty is six months to a year in prison.\nwill be considered as a special aggravating circumstance in the offenses referred to in this article, that part of the blame for the efforts of ascendants, guardians or legal representatives have valid or others responsible for the lower control or pimps offices or regular corrupters.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2434812", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2434812", "title": "Alienation of affections", "text": "Alienation of affections\n\nAlienation of affections is a common law tort, abolished in many jurisdictions. Where it still exists, an action is brought by a deserted spouse against a third party alleged to be responsible for the failure of the marriage. The defendant in an alienation of affections suit is typically an adulterous spouse's lover, although family members, counselors and therapists or clergy members who have advised a spouse to seek divorce have also been sued for alienation of affections. As of 2016, six US states (Hawaii, North Carolina, Mississippi, New Mexico, South Dakota, and Utah), recognize this tort, as well as Puerto Rico.\n\nThe tort of alienation of affections is similar to the tort of criminal conversation.\n\nAn action for alienation of affection does not require proof of extramarital sex. An alienation claim is difficult to establish because it comprises several elements and there are several defenses. To succeed on an alienation claim, the plaintiff has to show that (1) the marriage entailed love between the spouses in some degree; (2) the spousal love was alienated and destroyed; and (3) the defendant's malicious conduct contributed to or caused the loss of affection. It is not necessary to show that the defendant set out to destroy the marital relationship, but only that he or she intentionally engaged in acts which would foreseeably impact the marriage. Thus, the defendant has a defense against an alienation claim where it can be shown that he or she did not know that the object of his or her affections was in fact married. It is not a defense that the guilty spouse consented to the defendant's conduct, but it might be a defense that the defendant was not the active and aggressive seducer. If the defendant's conduct was somehow inadvertent, the plaintiff would be unable to show intentional or malicious action. But prior marital problems do not establish a defense unless such unhappiness had reached a level of negating love between the spouses.\n\n, alienation of affection was recognized in six United States jurisdictions: Hawaii, North Carolina, Mississippi, New Mexico, South Dakota, and Utah. The tort of alienation of affection was inherited as part of the common law. The law was codified in some states, the first one being New York with legislation in 1864, and similar legislation existed in many U.S. states in the late 19th and early 20th centuries. Since 1935, this tort has been abolished in 42 states, including New York. Most States have abolished the action by legislation, but some came to an end by judicial review. For example, in 1927, actions for alienation of affection were abolished in Louisiana as a result of \"Moulin v. Monteleone\", 165 La. 169, 115 So. 447. See also South Carolina case \"Russo v. Sutton\", 422 SE 2d 750 (1992), abolishing the heart balm action for alienation of affection.\n\nAlienation of affection and criminal conversation lawsuits are allowed in North Carolina. It is estimated that over 200 alienation of affection cases are filed in North Carolina each year.\n\nMillion dollar verdicts have not been uncommon in North Carolina for alienation of affection and emotional distress. In March 2010, a wife won a $9 million suit against her husband's mistress. In another 2010 case, a wife successfully sued her former friend who allegedly seduced her husband while the friend was visiting the couple at their North Carolina home, resulting in the second highest award ever received in such suits. A Mecklenburg County jury awarded $1.4 million in May 2001 to a former wrestling coach against P, after the coach's wife left him for P (the jury verdict was later reduced by the NC Court of Appeals as excessive). A year 2000 verdict of $86,250 for alienation of affections and $15,000 for criminal conversion in the case of Pharr v. Beck, from Burke county was upheld on appeal. In 1997, in the case of Hutelmyer v. Cox, the Plaintiff wife was awarded $1 million against her husband's secretary who \"dressed sexy at work\" and had an affair with him destroying their marriage.\n\nIn North Carolina such lawsuits can be filed only for conduct prior to a separation; although, prior to changes in the law which went into effect in October 2009, the tort of criminal conversion applied to post-separation conduct as well. The North Carolina legislature has repeatedly had bills to abolish the tort introduced, and declined to do so. In 2009, the General Assembly approved legislation which placed some additional limits on such lawsuits. The bill was signed into law by Governor Bev Perdue on August 3, 2009, and is codified under Chapter 52 of the North Carolina General Statutes:\n\nAn Alienation of Affections suit may be brought against an employer if one of these three circumstances is evident.\n\nEach of the three limitations arose from a recent North Carolina legal case involving the tort. In \"Jones v. Skelly\", N.C.App. 2009, the North Carolina Court of Appeals had held that the tort applies even to legally separated spouses. In \"Mesenheimer v. Burris\", N.C. 2006, the North Carolina Supreme Court held that the statute of limitation commences when the affair should have been discovered rather than when it occurred. In \"Smith v. Lee\", 2007 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 78987, the Federal District Court for the Western District of North Carolina noted that the question of whether an employer could be held liable for an affair conducted by an employee (\"e.g.\" while on a business trip for the employer) was still unsettled in North Carolina.\n\nThere is often confusion over where an employee's \"scope of employment\" ends. An example of this would be a minister having sex with a person that has been receiving counseling services from that minister. In theory the minister is acting within the scope of employment because it is their duty to provide these counseling services and it is through these services that they gain access to the victim.\n\nIn 2014, Resident Superior Court Judge John O. Craig dismissed the case of Rothrock v. Cooke, ruling that the state's criminal conversion and alienation of affection laws were unconstitutional, infringing up on 1st and 14th amendment rights in the U.S. Constitution. That case was not appealed. In 2017, the North Carolina Court of Appeals, in a different case, ruled that the common law cause of action of alienation of affection was not facially invalid under the First and Fourteenth Amendments.\n\nThe Mississippi Supreme Court, in \"Fitch v. Valentine\", upheld the constitutionality of the state's alienation of affection law.\n\n"}
{"id": "26265030", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26265030", "title": "Angry Asian Man", "text": "Angry Asian Man\n\nAngry Asian Man is an Internet blog founded in 2001 by Phil Yu. The blog focuses on Asian American news, media, and politics. The Washington Post calls Angry Asian Man \"a daily must-read for the media-savvy, socially conscious, pop-cultured Asian American.\" An accompanying podcast, entitled \"Sound and Fury: The Angry Asian Podcast,\" was launched in May 2012 and features interviews with Asian Americans.\nYu first began blogging with a personal website www.minsoolove.com in 2000. In April 2002, he registered for the URL www.angryasianman.com.\n\nAs of February 17, 2015, Yu is involved in a trademark and copyright infringement dispute with Lela Lee of Angry Little Asian Girl. The dispute was recently made public on each of their respective blogs. Both parties have since removed their blog posts in regards to the subject after an intensifying response from the public. There appears to be no resolution at this time.\n"}
{"id": "30875393", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30875393", "title": "Asian Pacific American", "text": "Asian Pacific American\n\nAsian-Pacific American (APA) or Asian-Pacific Islander (API) is a term sometimes used in the United States to include both Asian Americans and Pacific Islands Americans.\n\nThe U.S. Department of Labor Office of Federal Contract Compliance Programs defined Asian-Pacific Islander as \"A person with origins in any of the original peoples of the Far East, Southeast Asia, South Asia, or the Pacific Islands. This area includes, for example, China, Japan, Korea, the Philippines and Samoa; and in South Asia, includes India, Pakistan, Bangladesh, Sri Lanka, Nepal, and Bhutan.\" A definition from Henry Ford Health System states that an Asian-Pacific American is \"A U.S. citizen whose origins are from Japan, China, Taiwan, Korea, Vietnam, Laos, Cambodia, the Philippines, Samoa, Fiji, Guam, the U.S. Trust Territories of the Pacific or the Northern Marianas.\n\nAsian or Pacific Islander was an option to indicate race and ethnicity in the United States Censuses in the 1990 and 2000 Census as well as in several Census Bureau studies in between, including Current Population Surveys reports and updates between 1994 and 2002. A 1997 Office of Management and Budget directive separated the \"Asian or Pacific Islander\" racial category into two categories: \"Asian\" and \"Native Hawaiian and Other Pacific Islander.\" Following this change, he U.S. Census Bureau defined Asian as \"a person having origins in the in any of the original people of the Far East, Southeast Asia, or the Indian subcontinent including, for example, Cambodia, China, India, Japan, Korea, Malaysia, Pakistan, the Philippine Islands, Thailand, and Vietnam.\" The U.S. Census Bureau defined Native Hawaiian or other Pacific Islander as \"a person having origins in any of the original people of Hawaii, Guam, Samoa, or other Pacific Islands.\"\n\nThe U.S. Department of Labor Office of Federal Contract Compliance Programs defined Asian-Pacific Islander as \"A person with origins in any of the original peoples of the Far East, Southeast Asia, South Asia, or the Pacific Islands. This area includes, for example, China, Japan, Korea, the Philippines and Samoa; and in South Asia, includes India, Pakistan, Bangladesh, Sri Lanka, Nepal, and Bhutan.\" A definition from Henry Ford Health System states that an Asian-Pacific American is \"A U.S. citizen whose origins are from Japan, China, Taiwan, Korea, Vietnam, Laos, Cambodia, the Philippines, Samoa, Fiji, Guam, the U.S. Trust Territories of the Pacific or the Northern Marianas.\n\nThe term is used in reference to Asian/Pacific American Heritage Week, the first ten days of May, established in 1978 by a joint resolution in United States Congress. The commemorative week was expanded to a month (Asian Pacific American Heritage Month) by Congress in 1992. The month of May was chosen to celebrate the emigration of the first Japanese Americans on May 7, 1843, and to honor the Chinese immigrants who contributed to the transcontinental railroad which was completed on May 10, 1896.\n\nThe term is also used by several state boards and commissions, including in Washington, Michigan, Maryland, and Connecticut. The term is also used in the names of several non-profit groups, such as the A|P|A History Collective, Center for Asian Pacific American Women, Asian & Pacific Islander American Scholarship Fund, and National Coalition for Asian Pacific American Community Development. Asian Pacific Americans are listed as a group on the United States Army website.\n\nPrevious to the 1960s, the only term used to refer to Americans with ancestry in Asia was \"orientals.\" The pan-racial identity Asian American was created in the 1960s. After watching the black Civil Rights Movement, Chinese American, Filipino American, and Japanese American college students in the San Francisco Bay Area were concerned with the living conditions in primarily Asian American residential areas. Asian American college students also fought for the inclusion of their stories in college curriculum The death of Chinese American, Vincent Chin, in 1982, furthered the pan-racial movement for Asian American rights. Vincent Chin's death brought awareness of shared struggles between the various pan-ethnic Asian American groups. In the 1980s, the term Asian Pacific American began to be used in Asian American Studies and Asian American pan-racial social movements. Scholars believed that Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders had shared experiences with colonialism and had been connected historically through trade and cultures.\n\nThe term Asian Pacific Islander has been controversial in academia. Scholars, such as Stacy Nguyen, Dr. J. Kehaulani Kauanui, and Lisa Kahaleole Hall have argued that Asian American should be separate from Pacific Islander. Pacific Islanders experience a different set of struggles than Asian Americans. While Asian Americans suffer from immigration issues, Pacific Islanders are fighting for decolonization and sovereignty. The term Asian Pacific Islander often focuses on issues facing the Asian American community while ignoring issues facing the Pacific Islander community.\n\nIn \"Remapping a Theoretical Space for Hawaiian Women and Indigenous Women,\" Hall argues that Asian Pacific Islander movements, as well as mainstream feminist movements, have failed to address issues specific to just Pacific Islanders. Pacific Islanders face a different set of struggles than Asian Americans when it comes to land sovereignty and colonization. These struggles have not been included in APA discourses. The term further perpetuates the lack of accurate information about Pacific Islander communities.\n\nIn \"Where are Native Hawaiians and Other Pacific Islanders in Higher Education?\" Kaunanui argues the term has prevented Pacific Islanders at higher institutions from receiving economic and social resources at higher institutions. Higher institutions address the racial oppression that Asian Americans face, such as the \"whiz kid\" stereotypes, but fail to address that Pacific Islanders are stereotyped as lazy and not hard-working. Kaunanui continues to argue higher institutions should specifically target \"Native Hawaiian and other Pacific Islander\" students in recruitment efforts because the students of that category are underrepresented in higher institutions. In order to target \"Native Hawaiian and Pacific Islander\" students, the term Pacific Islander should be separated from the term Asian.\n\nLucy Hu argues Pacific Islanders and Asian Americans face a completely different set of racial and economic issues. The term Asian Pacific Islander, or Asian-Pacific American erases the struggles Pacific Islanders face separately from Asian Americans. While the Asian American community has a higher medium annual income than the national average, many Pacific Islanders are living below the poverty line. Pacific Islanders are much more educationally disadvantaged than Asian Americans.\n\nOther scholars believe that Asian Pacific Islander movements should include both Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders. In \"Pan-Pacific Identity: A Skeptical Asian American Response,\" Young argues that Pacific Islanders experience a different set of struggles than Asian Americans, but are ultimately racialized by society in the same ways, such as being seen as \"foreigners.\" She believes that the term Pan-Pacific should continue to be used, but should be more inclusive of Pacific Islanders in social movements. Pan-pacific movements should include the decolonization of the Pacific Islands in its platforms.\n\nIn \"Whither the Asian American Coalition,\" Spickard argues that the histories and of both Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders are linked. Colonization in the Pacific Islands is not a reason to separate the term API. He asserts that colonization has occurred in many Asian nations, such as the Philippines, Vietnam, and Japan, as well. He writes that Asian Americans cannot be separated from Pacific Islanders based on cultural differences. Many Asian nations have nothing in common culturally and many Pacific Islands have nothing in common culturally. Spickard continues to argue that the issues facing Middle Eastern Asian American communities, multiracial Asian American communities, and adoptees from Asia has not been included by Asian Pacific American discourses, either. What all of these groups have in common is struggles with colonialism, orientalism, and racial hierarchies. Asian Pacific American movements should work to include the struggles facing all groups under the pan-racial umbrella of Asian Pacific American.  \n\naThe data for 2000 is generated by adding the Asian and Pacific Islander populations from two different sources both by the U.S. Census Bureau.\n\n"}
{"id": "35200742", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35200742", "title": "Atsawaka language", "text": "Atsawaka language\n\nAtswawaka, also called Atsahuaca, or Atsawaka-Yamiaka, is an extinct Panoan language of Peru. \"Atsahuaca\" is the name that the tribe calls themselves, meaning \"children of the manioc\" in their own language. Alternate spellings of the name of the Atswakaka language include: Atsawaka, Atsawaca, Astahuaca, Yamiaca, Yamiaka, Atsawaka-Yamiaka, and Atsahuaca-Yamiaca.\n\nThere were 20 speakers in 1904.\n\nThe Atswawaka alphabet uses 24 letters commonly, and has 8 characters used for vowels. \nMan - \"t'harki\"\n\nWoman - \"tcinani\"\n\nYes - \"ei\"\n\nNo - \"tcama\"\n\nTea - \"ita\"\n\nTree - \"isthehowa\"\n"}
{"id": "41380460", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41380460", "title": "Australian Young Greens", "text": "Australian Young Greens\n\nThe Australian Young Greens is a federation of Young Greens groups from each Australian state and territory. Together they form the Youth Wing of the Australian Greens. Like the Australian Greens, the Australian Young Greens are underpinned by the four pillars of ecological sustainability, social justice, grassroots democracy and peace and non-violence. Co-convenors are elected annually at the Australian Young Greens National Conference by elected state delegates, with the condition that at least one convenor must identify as a non-cisgendered man.\n\nThe Australian Young Greens are an intrinsic part of the Australian Greens as is each individual state branch within their respective localities. In some states they often take the lead in organising protests, stunts and other events to highlight issues of social injustice and environmental degradation. Some of these include actions against the Zoe's Law bill in New South Wales and actions against the dredging of the Great Barrier Reef in Queensland. The Young Greens have also been active in organising to stop the Federal Governments funding cuts to Universities across Australia.\n\nThey are active in critically engaging with policy both within and outside The Greens. Most recently, this has been directed towards education, refugee rights and drug law reform.\n\nThe Young Greens are active in most metropolitan and many regional Australian universities. They have strong student union representation at many of these universities, with Young Greens having held the position of President at the University of Wollongong (2013 & 2014), the University of Technology Sydney (2014), Murdoch University (2016), Edith Cowan University (2010, 2013, 2016, 2018), Flinders University (2018) and others.\n\nThe Young Greens also operate outside of university campuses via regional local groups. Some of these groups cover the Greater Western Sydney region and the Northern Rivers in New South Wales and the Gold and Sunshine Coasts in Queensland.\n\nOnce each year the Australian Young Greens will formally meet to discuss the direction of the AYG.\n"}
{"id": "52537860", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52537860", "title": "Cannabis in Armenia", "text": "Cannabis in Armenia\n\nCannabis in Armenia is illegal for all uses.\n\nArmenia cultivates some small amounts of cannabis, mostly for local consumption. Some indigenous strains of cannabis grow in the wild in Armenia, but a large degree of those blooms have been subject to state sponsored eradication. Armenia also serves as a transit route for hashish coming from Central Asia, headed for Europe and the United States.\n\nCannabis and hashish comprises the majority of recreational illicit drug usage in Armenia. Nevertheless, lifetime drug use among teenagers is among the lowest in all of Europe (4-7%) . Consumption is more prevalent among men in Armenia . While prior cannabis use has been decriminalized as of 2009, those caught possessing are subject to heavy fines and an average jail sentence of two months .\n"}
{"id": "58005071", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58005071", "title": "Coastal coal-carrying trade of New South Wales", "text": "Coastal coal-carrying trade of New South Wales\n\nThe Coastal coal-carrying trade of New South Wales involved the shipping of coal - mainly for local consumption but also for export or coal bunkering – by sea to Sydney from the northern and southern coal fields of New South Wales. It took place in the 19th and 20th centuries. It should not be confused with the export coal trade, which still exists today. There was also an interstate trade, carrying coal and coke to other Australian states that did not have local sources of black coal. \n\nCoal was found to the north and south of Sydney in the last years of the C18th by colonial settlers. Coal seams run under Sydney but at great depth and mining these seams proved impractical. As Sydney grew in size as a city and as a major port, coal was needed for steamships, town gas production and other industrial uses. \n\nSmall ships - colloquially named 'sixty-milers' - carried coal to Sydney from coal ports that were established on the northern and southern coalfields of New South Wales. The coastal trade was well established by the time Sydney was first linked to the coalfields by railways. Significant customers for coal were situated on the foreshores of Sydney Harbour, the Parramatta River, and to a lesser extent Botany Bay. Steamships using Sydney loaded bunker coal there.\n\nDuring the heyday of the coastal trade, Sydney was dependent upon a constant supply of coal arriving by sea, particularly for the production of town gas and for bunkering operations. As the uses of coal declined, so did the coastal trade in the last three decades of the C20th. It ended finally, around the turn of the C21st, and is now largely forgotten. Few remnants of the once extensive coastal coal-carrying trade exist today.\n\nCoal was used as a fuel by the Awabakal people, the original inhabitants and traditional owners of what is now Lake Macquarie and Newcastle. Their word for coal was \"nikkin\". Evidence of coal use has been found in beach and dune middens, on Lake Macquarie at Swansea Heads and Ham's Beach, and on the Central Coast at Mooney Beach.\n\nA group of escaped convicts led by a married couple William and Mary Bryant were the first Europeans to find and use Australian coal, at the end of March 1791. They found ‘fine burning coal’ near a ‘little creek’ with cabbage tree palms ‘about 2 degrees’ north of Sydney, 'after two days sailing'. This first hand account of the discovery - written by one of the party James Martin - was found in a collection of manuscripts and published in 1937. The escapees never returned to Sydney and their discovery of the coal remained unknown, until after they were recaptured at Kupang. William Bryant also wrote an account that is now lost but William Bligh - later a governor of New South Wales - saw it, when he visited Kupang in 1792. Bligh made a summary of Bryant's account in his log and quoted him as saying, \"Walking along shore towards the entrance of the Creek we found several large pieces of Coal – seeing so many pieces we thought it was not unlikely to find a Mine, and searching about a little, we found a place where we picked up with an Ax as good Coals as any in England—took some to the fire and they burned exceedingly well\". It is likely that the location was near the entrance to Glenrock Lagoon, where coal is exposed in the sea cliff and which was later the site of the Burwood Colliery.\n\nSurvivors of the wreck of the \"Sydney Cove\" reported seeing coal south of Sydney, after completing their 700km trek along the coast in May 1797. The explorer George Bass was tasked to confirm the discovery, and, in July 1797, he reported seeing a coal seam “six foot deep in the face of a steep cliff which was traced for eight miles in length”. (Sites where coal outcrops are visible along the coast south of Sydney include Coalcliff, where coal outcrops in the sea-cliff, and near the ocean pool at Wombarra and Brickyard Point, Austinmer, where coal outcrops in the headlands.) \n\nIn September of the same year, Lieutenant John Shortland reported coal outcropping on the southern side of the Hunter River - first known as the Coal River - near to its mouth, at what is now Newcastle. Shortland's ‘discovery’ may have been prompted by an earlier report - provided by a party of fishermen in 1796 - of a river with coal, to the north of Sydney and south from Port Stephens, but he is credited with the discovery of the Hunter River and the northern coalfields.\n\nIn July 1800, Captain William Reid - mistaking Moon Island for Nobby's and the entrance to Lake Macquarie at Swansea Heads for the mouth of the Hunter River – obtained his cargo of coal for Sydney from a seam outcropping in the southern headland at the lake's entrance – a headland since known as ‘Reid’s Mistake’ - and so accidentally revealed to the settlers the coastal coalfields of Lake Macquarie. Awabakal people had used the coal at Swansea Heads for over a thousand years. It was only upon his return to Sydney that Reid found that he had not travelled far enough north to have reached the Hunter River. \n\nCoal was also found during July 1801 by the expedition, led by Lieutenant-Colonel William Paterson, to the Hunter Valley inland from Newcastle. This area would later become the vast South Maitland Coalfields.\n\nThe discovery of the western coalfields did not occur until after the Blue Mountains had been crossed in 1813. Coal outcrops low in in cliffs of some valleys of the Blue Mountains and on their western side near Lithgow. Apart from local use, western coal could not be exploited until the railway from Sydney crossed the Blue Mountains in 1869.\n\nThat coal had been found so readily, by colonial settlers with no experience of mining and little knowledge of their new country, so soon after the first European settlement, implied that the resource was widespread and plentiful. That proved true; an immense coal resource existed in New South Wales. Coal is still being mined within the Sydney Basin more than two centuries later. Some individual mines have been worked for well over a century. Indeed, it is only the more recent increased rate of extraction - for the export market - that will see the exhaustion of commercially viable reserves around the mid-C21st.\n\nCoal was needed in Sydney to feed the production of town gas (from 1841 to 1971), as bunker coal for steamships, and as fuel for industrial and hospital heating boilers. Brickworks were a significant user of coal as a fuel. In the C19th and very early C20th, there was also some demand for coal as a fuel for domestic heating. Some coal also was trans-shipped and exported from Sydney.\n\nCoal seams extend under Sydney but the huge depth of these seams has resulted in only very limited mining activity in Sydney. The coal seams of the Sydney Basin outcrop to the north, south and west of Sydney. The Metropolitan Colliery, 45km south of Sydney at Helensburgh, is the closest commercially viable coal mine. \n\nGiven the short distances involved, it is not immediately obvious why coal would be carried to Sydney by sea. Not all coal consumed in Sydney arrived by ship; the railways also carried coal to Sydney. However, the main railway lines from Sydney to the north and south were not completed until the late 1880s. By that time, some mines were already well established and connected to nearby ports by local rail lines, the shipping trade was well established, and many major customers already had facilities on the waterfront of the natural port of Sydney Harbour and were without a rail siding. Some mines had been designed to ship coal by sea only, for example Coalcliff (up to 1910) and the Wallarah Colliery at Catherine Hill Bay. Most of the local rail lines to the mines were privately owned and used rolling stock that was not to the standards expected of main line rail operations - for example wagons without air brakes - and operation over government-owned lines was restricted to specific lines and not allowed on others.\n\nCoal bunkering of steamships in Sydney Harbour was a natural fit for the coastal coal trade. Sixty-milers could moor alongside a steamship and directly transfer coal to the ship's bunkers. After 1920, coal could be off-loaded at the purpose-built bunkering facility, the Ball's Head Coal Loader.\n\nThe New South Wales Government Railways were large users of coal. But once the railway from Sydney reached the western coal-fields in 1869 and later the other coal fields, they had no need for coal carried in ships.\n\nFour of the electrical power stations in Sydney - Bunnerong on Botany Bay, and White Bay, Pyrmont and Ultimo on Sydney Harbour - were supplied with coal by rail. All these power stations were situated close to the waterfront but that was to obtain cooling water not port access. Two of the power stations - Ultimo and White Bay - initially were operated by the railways and all the power stations in Sydney were built after the rail connections from the coalfields to Sydney were completed. The other power station, at Balmain, had no rail siding. It was coal-fired but also raised some steam by incinerating garbage. Its coal was landed from barges at the waterfront until 1965 and so it seems likely that some or all of the coal for the Balmain Power Station came by sea. \n\nIn parallel to the coastal trade to Sydney, there was an interstate coastal trade in coal and coke from the same ports to other Australian states, particularly Victoria, South Australia and Tasmania where black coal was needed for steamship coal bunkering, rail transport and industrial purposes and coke was needed for smelting ores. \n\n\"Main article: Sixty-miler\" \n\nCoal was carried to Sydney in ships known as ‘sixty-milers’. The name refers to the approximate distance by sea - in nautical miles - from the Hunter River to Sydney.\n\nThe heyday of the sixty-milers was from around 1880 to the 1960s. In 1919, a Royal Commission identified twenty-nine ships engaged in the coastal coal-carrying trade.\n\nThere was almost no overlap in the ships used in the two coastal coal trades. The interstate ships were larger than most 'sixty-milers' and making longer voyages needs different crewing arrangements and larger coal bunker capacity.. \n\nIn the earlier years of the trade, there were many owners and operators, sometimes just owning or operating on charter just one vessel. Owners of the 'sixty-milers', during this period, most typically were coal-mines (such as Coalcliff Colliery and Wallarah Colliery), or coal-shippers or merchants (such as Scott, Fell and Company, G.S.Yuill & Co. ), The southern coalfield collieries (Coalcliff Collieries, etc.) owned their own ships but most were chartered to the Southern Coal Owner's Agency, which operated the ships. Later companies that both owned coal mines and were also coal merchants (such as R.W.Miller and Howard Smith Ltd) owned ships and ownership became more concentrated. \n\nIn the later years of the trade, one of the dominant owners was R.W. Miller and its successor companies. However, due to company takeovers and cross-ownership between R.W. Miller, Howard Smith Limited and Coal and Allied Industries, it is somewhat difficult to track ownership of vessels and loading assets of these firms. In 1989, Howard Smith took full ownership of R.W.Miller. Another dominant owner in the later years of the trade was the Melbourne shipping company McIlwraith McEachern - owners of the sixty-milers whose names included 'Bank' (\"Mortlake Bank\", etc.) Ownership was sometimes difficult to follow; the \"Hexham Bank\" may have been described as an 'R.W. Miller' ship when in fact it was on charter to that company from its actual owners McIlwraith McEacharn. Ships of course were bought and sold and changed ownership, while still carrying coal cargoes for their new owners; sometimes the change in ownership also resulted in the ship's name changing, such as when the \"Corrimal\" became the \"Ayrfield\". \n\nIn contrast to the 'sixty-milers', the owners of the interstate coastal ships were usually more traditional ship-owners, some of whom specialised in carrying coal and coke. \n\nCoal from the northern coalfields was loaded at Hexham on the Hunter River, Carrington (The Basin, The Dyke) near Newcastle, on Lake Macquarie, and at the ocean jetty at Catherine Hill Bay. In the early years of the trade, coal was loaded at Newcastle itself, on the southern bank of the Hunter River, at the river port of Morpeth, and at a wharf at Reid's Mistake at Swansea Heads. \n\nThe coalfields to the north of Sydney had the advantage that the Hunter River and its estuary, while not ideal, could be used as a port. Mining commenced on the northern fields first. The first coal mines were initially operated by the government using convict labour. Sporadic mining operations started around what is now Newcastle and, in 1799, a cargo of coal was shipped to Bengal aboard the \"Hunter\". The first ‘permanent’ mine at Newcastle was opened in 1804. \n\nWhen Newcastle ceased to be a penal colony in 1821, the government continued to operate the mines. Commissioner Bigge had recommended that the mines be given over to private operation. In 1828, there was an agreement struck between the Secretary of State for colonies and the Australian Agricultural Company that made . One other company was able to persuade the government to allow it to mine coal from 1841, the Ebenezer Colliery at Coal Point on Lake Macquarie. \n\nThe monopoly was broken when challenged in 1847 by the Brown family, who began mining coal at Maitland and using the river port of Morpeth and undercut the price of coal mined bu the AAC. Coal was accessible in many places throughout the Hunter Valley and on both the eastern and western shores of Lake Macquarie. Once the monopoly was broken, many mines were soon in operation throughout the northern coalfields. At the end of the C19th, the four most important companies on the northern field were the Australian Agricultural Company, J & A Brown, Newcastle Wallsend and Scottish Australian (Lambton Colliery). Of these, only the Scottish Australian was not a member of the Associated Northern Collieries. This was essentially a cartel that divided production as quotas for each of the participating colliery owners. There was a monetary mechanism under which collieries selling above their quota compensated those selling under their quota. To avoid companies just leaving coal in the ground, quotas were adjusted based on actual sales for the previous year. The arrangement was known as \"the Vend\" and operated for most of the years between 1872 and 1893, when it collapsed due to competition in the export market.\n\nMany collieries on the northern coalfield of NSW were named after collieries in the United Kingdom. Other names referenced the coal seam being mined and that confused the locality and identity of the mine further. With changes of ownership, mine names often changed and sometimes names associated with good-quality coal were moved to completely different collieries. \n\nMost mines of the northern coalfields were connected to the ports at Hexham and Carrington by an extensive network of railway lines; some were government lines and others were privately owned. Coal was loaded into four-wheel wagons owned by the mining companies. The type of four-wheel wagon used consisted of a frame with wheels and a removable wooden hopper. Trains of wagons were hauled to the port, where the removable hoppers were lifted out of the frame by a crane and dumped by opening the bottom of the hopper. They were known as 'non-air' wagons because they did not have air-brakes. \n\nAt their peak, there were 13,000 of these ‘non-air’ wagons in service, belonging to around sixty operators. Larger modern bogie wagons were introduced in the 1960s and ‘non-air’ wagons were banned from Port Waratah in 1974 but continued to be used to bring coal to Hexham. There were still 3,000 in use in 1975 and 900 when the Richmond Vale Railway closed in September 1987. 'Non-air' wagons came in different capacities between 7 and 12.5 tons. Large letters on the side of the wagon identified the owner, and small letters its capacity.\n\nCoal was shipped from Newcastle to Sydney from around 1801 onwards. Initially mines were located in what is now the inner-city of Newcastle and coal was loaded from wharves on the southern bank of the Hunter River. Newcastle was the main port during the time of the AACo. monopoly on the mining of coal (1828–1847). The AACo. built the first rail transport in Australia, from its mines to the Newcastle port. \n\nThe mouth of the Hunter was a difficult port for sailing ships heading south. Sailing ships leaving port could not negotiate the entrance to the river, when the winds favourable to a southern passage were blowing. From 1859, these ships were towed out by steam tugs and the situation improved. The construction of the breakwater between Nobby's Head and Newcastle increased the safety of the port. \n\nWith the completion of the port at nearby Carrington, the importance of the old port of Newcastle, as a coal port, declined. \n\nThe port at Carrington was the largest of all the coal ports of the coastal coal-carrying trade. The Basin and the Dyke could handle larger ships and was also used for coal export and coal bunkering, as well as loading 'sixty-milers'. \n\nThe area was originally a low-lying island, Bullock Island, within the estuary of the Hunter River, that was partially submerged at high tide. Sailing ships using the old port of Newcastle tipped stone ballast in the area and, with other reclamation work, the line of The Dyke was created by 1861. The Dyke had the effect of constraining the channel of the Hunter River, so that the natural flow and tidal movement of the river tended to scour sediments from the river floor and maintain a deep-water port. Land was reclaimed behind the original Dyke, which became the large rail-yard for the port. Coal was loaded at The Dyke from 1878. \n\nThe Basin is an artificial harbour, to the west of The Dyke, which opens into the junction of Throsby Creek and the Hunter River. It was created by dredging and completed in 1888. The Basin was also used to load coal. \n\nThe Carrington coal-loaders used twelve hydraulic cranes powered by water under pressure supplied from a pumphouse nearby. There were also three steamcranes. In 1890, this government-operated facilitiy was capable of loading a total of 12,000 tons per day. There were also some privately operated chutes capable of another 3,000 tons per day. Later some electrically operated cranes were added. The hoppers of rail wagons were lifted by these cranes and the coal dumped directly into the holds of ships. \n\n\"Main article: Hexham, New South Wales\" \n\nHexham is located on the Hunter River upstream from Newcastle. There were three coal loaders at Hexham. \n\nThe most downstream one was J & A Brown's straithes that were supplied with coal by the Richmond Vale Railway via a right-angle crossing (across the Main North government line) from 1856 until November 1967.\n\nThe next loader upstream was the R.W.Miller coal loader, located next to the Hexham Bridge, which was built in 1959 and supplied only by road. After the merger of R.W. Miller with Coal & Allied in the mid-1980s, it was used by Coal & Allied to load coal washed at the Hexham Coal Washery destined for Sydney. This loader was closed 1988 after the closure of the washery.\n\nThe most upstream loader was built in 1935 for the Hetton Bellbird Collieries and was sold to the Newcastle Wallsend Coal Company in 1956. It was supplied via the South Maitland Railway up to the East Greta Exchange Sidings (near Maitland) and from there via the Main North (government) railway to the Hetton Bellbird Sidings at the loader. The coal was dumped at a dump station and was transferred via conveyor across the main line and highway to a ship-loader. The loader was closed in 1972 and demolished during 1976.\n\nAs a river port, care had to be taken so ships made use of the tides to avoid running aground in shallow Fern Bay, when laden with coal and heading downstream to the sea.\n\nLake Macquarie could handle only very small craft due to the shallow opening of the lake to the sea at Swansea. Only the very smallest of the 'sixty-milers' – ships like the \"Novelty\" and \"Commonwealth\" – were suitable. A breakwater and dredging of the channel allowed these ships to pass the shallow entrance. \n\nThe South Hetton Colliery shipped coal from a wharf - probably at Coal Point - on the western shore of Lake Macquarie. Coal was also loaded at Green Point on the eastern side of the lake. A wharf on the south side of Swansea Channel, near the Reid's Mistake Headland was used as a transhipment location for Sydney in the 1840s. There were other collieries near to the northern, eastern or western shores of the lake but these were connected to railway lines and sent their coal to Carrington and some for local consumption at the Newcastle Steelworks. \nCatherine Hill Bay was the only ocean jetty port on the northern coalfields. Coal from the Wallarah Colliery was loaded here for Sydney and Newcastle. By using an ocean jetty, this colliery could exploit the coal seams of Lake Macquarie, without ships needing to enter the Swansea Channel. The port could still be dangerous, under unfavourable weather conditions, and some ships came to grief there.\n\nIt was the last port used by the coastal coal trade in 2002. Coal was last loaded for the short trip to Newcastle, where it was loaded for export. The Wallarah Collliery closed in the same year,\n\nAlthough lying much closer to Sydney, the southern coalfields were not developed early, due to the absence of any natural port. Coal in the southern coalfields was generally more easily won than in the northern field. The coal outcropped in sea cliffs or part way up the Illawarra Escarpment and adit mining was feasible. Adits were less costly to construct and operate than the shafts and sloping drifts of the northern coalfields. The southern coalfields could be worked profitably, if the problem of shipping could be solved. The absence of a suitable port held back development of the southern mines, until around 1849 when the Mt Kiera mine opened. \n\nCoal from the southern coal fields, at various times, was loaded at Wollongong Harbour and Port Kembla and at the ocean jetty ports: Bellambi; Coalcliff; Hicks Point at Austinmer; and Sandon Point, Bulli. Port Kembla was originally an ocean jetty port but two breakwaters were added later to provide shelter. \n\nLoading at the southern coalfield jetty ports typically used four-wheel wagons with hoppers fixed to the frames, which were tipped into chutes that led to high straithes from which the collier alongside the jetty or wharf was loaded. At Wollongong Harbour only, some loading was done by crane using wagons with removable hoppers, similar in concept to the ones used in the northern coalfields. After 1915, four-wheel bottom dump wagons were used to bring coal to the new No.1 Jetty at Port Kembla, via an unloading rail loop and dump station. This bottom-dumping operation was similar in concept to the coal-handling practice of today. \n\nUnlike the northern fields, mines of the southern coalfield were usually named after a locality or geographical feature and their names rarely changed over their lifetime. The number of mines was also less and the mines tended to have longer lives. \n\nMost of the southern coalfield mines were members of the Southern Coal Owners' Agency, which had as one of its aims 'prevention of ruinous competition'. It was a cartel-like organisation, controlling production volume, prices, and transport costs, but only for the southern coalfield. It lasted from 1893 to 1950, being renewed every few years by agreement. Although the collieries that were members owned 'sixty-miler' ships, those ships were chartered by the Agency. The Agency managed the operations of the ships and paid the owner a monthly fee based on each ship's capacity. Although the operation of the ships may not have been profitable, the colleries seem to have seen controlling the shipping of their coal as important to ensure reliable delivery, and as a necessary cost. Collieries received an initial low payment upon delivery of their coal to a customer but also later received a share of the actual profits from all sales, in proportion to their market share.\n\n\"Main article: Wollongong Harbour Precinct\" \n\nWollongong was for a time the only safe anchorage on the southern coalfields and the third largest port in NSW. \n\nThe coal port at Wollongong Harbour consisted of the man-made Belmore Basin and the 'Tee Wharf'. On Belmore Basin, there were four coal straithes on the western side of the basin and two steam cranes on the eastern side. Loading at the 'Tee Wharf' was by a single steam crane. The 'Tee-Wharf' was somewhat exposed to weather from the north and north-east; the existing northern breakwater was not built until 1966-67. \n\nThe port was connected to the Mt Kiera and Mt Pleasant Collieries by rail lines operated by the respective collieries. Originally these were horse-drawn but later used steam locomotives. \n\nFrom 1875 to 1890, there was a cokeworks, which converted unsalable fines to coke, some of which was loaded at the port for Sydney. \n\nBy 1927, there was only one coal straith in operation at Wollongong. The last coal was loaded there in 1933, by which time it had been eclipsed as a coal port by Port Kembla. \n\n\"Main article: Port Kembla (seaport)\" \n\nFrom 1883, coal was shipped from an ocean jetty on the beach just to the north of a rocky headland lying to the north of Red Point and Boiler's Point. This new port was named Port Kembla, after the Mount Kembla mine from where the coal was transported by rail. \n\nA second jetty belonging to the Southern Coal Company was opened in 1887, which loaded coal sent by rail from the Corrimal Colliery. \n\nIn its earlier years – much like the other ocean jetty coal ports - Port Kembla was exposed to rough seas during bad weather, Between 1901 and 1937, first an eastern breakwater and then a northern breakwater was constructed, resulting in a large protected and safe anchorage now known as the ‘Outer Harbour’. A new coal jetty was built to the north of the two existing coal jetties. The new coal jetty opened in 1915 and became 'No.1 Jetty', the Southern Coal Jetty became No.2 Jetty, and the Mt Kembla Jetty became Jetty No.3.\n\nBy 1937, the No.1 Jetty was loading coal from all the southern mines that shipped coal by sea, except those mines still using Bellambi or Bulli. After 1952, Port Kembla was the only coal port on the southern coalfields. The No.1 Jetty remained in service until it was replaced in 1963, by a new export coal loader located on the new ‘Inner Harbour’. Port Kembla remains a major coal export port.\nThere were originally two jetties at Bellambi, the South Bulli Jetty named after the mine of the same name and the Bellambi Coal Co. Jetty used by the Model Mine at Woonoona. The South Bulli Jetty built in 1887 was on Bellambi Beach immediately to the north of Bellambi Point. The Bellambi Coal Co. Jetty (also known as the \"Woonoona Jetty\") built in 1889 was located on a small rocky outcrop just to the north of the South Bulli Jetty, The port had also been the site of an earlier coal jetty completed around 1858 but only used for a relatively short time. \n\nThe Bellambi Coal Co. Jetty was damaged in a storm in 1898and from that time all coal went across the South Bulli Jetty.\n\nCoal was sent from the mines by rail to the jetty, where there were two rail tracks on the jetty - one for full wagons and the other for empty wagons - and two loading chutes (one for each hold of a 'sixty-miler'.The wagons were separated for tipping. One end of the coal wagon was raised by a steam ram, acting on a wagon axle, tipping the coal through a hinged panel in the other end. The coal then passed through a chute, directly into one hold of the ship moored alongside the jetty. In 1909, six colliers were loaded with a total of 4,500 tons in 14-hours.\n\nBellambi was a particularly dangerous port. Bellambi Point protected the jetties from the south but its reef extends 600m to seawardand was a hazard to shipping. It was not until 1913, that a light was erected on Bellambi Point to aid shipping. A number of 'sixty-milers' came to grief there. The 'sixty-milers' wrecked on the reef at Bellambi include, \"Llewellyn\" (1882), \"Adinga\" (1896) and Saxonia (1898). The last 'sixty-miler' to be wrecked there was the \"SS Munmorah,\" which ran aground on the reef in 1949. The reef also claimed a number of ships on interstate runs. In total, twelve ships were wrecked at Bellambi.\n\nThe South Bulli Jetty continued to operate until 1952. It partially collapsed in 1955 and was demolished in 1970. \n\n\"Main article: Coalcliff, New South Wales\"\nThe Coalcliff Colliery, opened in 1878, was originally developed as a jetty mine. Coal from the mine, after screening, was brought directly onto the jetty. This arrangement made working the mine difficult, as there was limited storage for mined coal and only coal that could be shipped promptly could be mined.\n\nThe jetty at Coalcliff was the smallest of the southern ocean jetties. It was very exposed to ocean swell, and shifting sand shoals added to the danger by changing the depth of water near the jetty. The jetty was used only by the Colliery's own 'sixty-milers' and then only in favourable weather. \n\nStorms in 1878,1881 and 1904 caused considerable damage to the jetty, further restricting shipping operations while damage was repaired and the jetty design modified. \n\nIn 1910, a shaft was opened that allowed coal from the mine to be transported by rail and the jetty closed by 1912. Although no longer operating its own jetty, Coalcliff Collieries continued to own and operate its sixty-milers, such as the \"Undola\". This may have been so that the jetty mine's quota under the Southern Coal Owners' Agency agreement would still be allocated to the company, in addition to its new quota for the 'new' shaft mine.\n\nHicks Point is a small rocky outcrop in the beach in Hicks Bay, just to the north of Brickyard Point, Austinmer, NSW. Even its name is almost forgotten today. \n\nThe Hicks Point Jetty was built in 1886 for the North Bulli Coal Company's colliery at Coledale to which it was connected by rail. It was also connected by rail to the Austimer Colliery. Brickyard Point to the south provided some shelter from southerly weather - today the area is used to launch boats. \n\nCoal was railed from the mine to the jetty in wagons with bottom opening doors, which were opened over a hatchway cut in the jetty deck. The coal flowed onto loading chutes and from there into the hold of the ship.\n\nThe jettty was damaged by storms in November 1903. The North Bulli Co. won the right to ship its coal via Port Kembla in 1906.. The Hicks Point Jetty was no longer needed and fell into disuse. It was destroyed by fire in 1915.\n\nThe Bulli Jetty at Sandon Point was opened in 1863 and used to load coal obtained from the nearby Bulli Colliery. \n\nThe Bulli Colliery was bought by BHP in 1937 and thereafter much of its coal went to the Port Kembla steelworks. The Bulli Jetty closed in 1943.\n\nSydney was for many years heavily dependent upon a constant supply of coal for its electricity, town gas, transport and other uses, something made more apparent by the effects of industrial trouble in the coal industry in 1948-49.\n\nWithin Sydney Harbour and the Parramatta River, unloading facilities included: the Waverton Coal Loader; AGL gasworks at Millers Point (until 1921) and Mortlake; North Shore Gas Company gasworks at Neutral Bay (until 1937) and Waverton; the Manly Gasworks at Little Manly Point (Spring Cove), and the R.W. Miller bunker facility in Blackwattle Bay. Some large industrial customers had their own wharves at which coal was unloaded. There was also a coal loader, the Balmain Coal Loader at White Bay, but it was only used for loading coal for the most part from the western coalfields near Lithgow. Coal was also unloaded at the Government Pier (or 'Long Pier') at Botany on the northern shore of Botany Bay.\n\nSteamships requiring bunker coal at Sydney Harbour could have their bunkers loaded directly from a 'sixty-miler' standing alongside. This manual bunkering operation was common, before the mechanised Ball's Head Coal Loader opened in 1920. Steamship companies preferred the coal of southern coalfields, because it burned with little smoke.\n\nInside the hold of the 'sixty-miler' workers known as 'shovellers' would shovel by hand the coal into coal baskets - limited by regulation to a weight of 2 hundredweight (one-tenth of a ton, or approx. 100kg). The coal baskets were then hoisted out of the hold of the 'sixty-miler'. A worker - known as a 'planksman' - working on a 16-inches wide plank suspended high above the hold of the 'sixty-miler' and level with the steamships rail, would walk along the plank and swing the suspended basket over the steamship's rail. From there other workers - known as 'carriers' - would carry it on their shoulders and tip it into the steamship's bunker chutes. Inside the steamship's bunkers, other workers known as 'trimmers' distributed the coal within the bunker. These workers, collectively known as 'coal lumpers', may have been the most highly paid casual employees of their time, but that recognised the arduous, extremely dirty and highly dangerous nature of their work. Work was carried out day and night, except in wet weather, so that bunkering was reasonably fast.\nThe Ball's Head Coal Loader opened in 1920. It was owned and operated by the Sydney Coal Bunkering Co., a subsidiary of the Union Steamship Co.. It was mainly used for bunkering steamships using the port of Sydney but also supplied some coal to local hospitals and other customers needing heating coal.\n\nCoal was unloaded, from the holds of 'sixty-milers' moored parallel to the shoreline by two gantry cranes fitted with grabs, and was deposited into a stockpile located on a raised platform constructed of sandstone and concrete. \n\nThe loading operation was highly automated for its time; it used a loading system supplied by an American company, the Mead Morrison Company. Coal fell via chutes in the base of the stockpile, into skips that were drawn by a continuous cable through tunnels below the stockpile and onto the loading wharf, a timber structure perpendicular to the shoreline. The system was capable of loading ships at 700 tonnes per hour.\n\nThe loader was operated by the Wallarah Coal Co. - the company that also operated the Catherine Hill Bay ocean jetty - from 1934 to 1964, when it closed for the first time. It was taken over by Coal & Allied Industries and reopened as a coal export terminal in 1967. In 1976, the cable loading system was replaced by a system of converyor belts capable of loading at 1,000 tonnes per hour.\n\nThe Australian Gaslight Company (AGL) - established in 1837 - operated two gasworks.. The first of these at Miller's Point opened in 1841. It fronted Darling Harbour where coal was unloaded. This plant closed in 1921. A larger plant was opened in 1886 on a 32 hectare site at Mortlake on the Parramatta River. \n\nThe coal wharf for the Mortlake gasworks was a T-shaped structure located at the end of Breakfast Point. At full production, the Mortlake gasworks consumed nearly 460,000 tons of coal in a year, all of it delivered to its wharf by 'sixty-milers'. The Mortlake works alone needed about three 'sixty-milers' to keep it supplied.\n\nThe original unloading arrangements at Breakfast Point were that the coal was shovelled into large metal tubs by coal lumpers working inside the holds of the sixty-miler. The tubs were lifted out of the hold by cranes on the wharf - a mix of steam and electric - and transported off the wharf in rail wagons hauled by steam locomotives. Unloading a 1000-ton 'sixty-miler', in 1920, required a total of forty-nine workers per shift; five crane drivers, five tippers, five wharfmen, two locomotive drivers, two shunters, and thirty coal lumpers. From 1937, coal unloading was carried out by grab cranes on an entirely new wharf on Kendall Bay and transported from the wharf by conveyor belt, ending the dangerous and arduous - but well-paid - occupation of 'coal lumping' at Mortlake.\n\nThe North Shore Gas Company - established in 1875 - operated two gasworks on the Lower North Shore. The first of these was established at Neutral Bay in 1876. The second larger works was at Waverton and was opened in 1917. In 1937, the aging plant at Neutral Bay was closed. Both these plants had wharves for unloading coal. The Waverton plant was dominated by a massive enclosed coal store.\n\nIn 1943, the gas mains of the Australian Gaslight Company and the North Shore Gas Company were interconnected to allow either company to supply the other company's customers, in case of wartime damage to one gasworks. \n\nThere was a gasworks at Little Manly Point. Coal was unloaded at a wharf on the Spring Cove side of the site. \n\nBlackwattle Bay is an inlet lying between the Pyrmont Peninsula and Glebe Point to the east of Rozelle Bay. Blackwattle Bay was once much larger in area. The shallow part of the inlet was filled in in the late C19th to create what is now Wentworth Park. \n\nA coal unloading and storage facility was opened in the 1920s. It was located between the reclaimed shoreline and Pyrmont Bridge Road. The installation consisted of a timber wharf - with ships berthing parallel to the shoreline - a gantry crane with a grab for unloading, and a bunker structure. The first level of the bunker structure was made of concrete and brick and it had a timber superstructure as its second level. The two long edges of the bunker structure carried rails for the travelling gantry crane.\n\nCoal arrived by sea on 'sixty-milers' and was distributed to resellers and other customers by road transport. \n\nThe facility was initially operated by Howard Smith Ltd. then R.W.Miller Ltd. R.W. Miller was taken over by Howard Smith Limited in 1979 (67% holding). It became a wholly owned subsidiary in 1989. and this may be associated with the final closure of the facility. \n\nThe area at the head of Blackwattle Bay, adjacent to the coal wharf, was used for the unloading construction aggregate - from the 'Stone Fleet' ships - and timber.\n\nSome industrial customers had their own wharves at which coal could be unloaded. Colonial Sugar Refinery (CSR) at Pyrmont had grab cranes for unloading raw sugar in bulk, which could also be used to unload coal - from 'sixty-milers' - or other bulk cargoes when necessary. Cockatoo Island Dockyard had a coal wharf and two coal bunkers, on the south-western side of the island immediately to the north of the Sutherland Dock. Coal was used as fuel by the powerhouse that supplied Cockatoo Island's electricity, including power for the dock pumps. The Nestlé chocolate factory at Abbotsford had a wharf with a coal bunker (located at the water-end) for the coal used to power its boilers. Coal for the Balmain Power Station was landed from barges at the waterfront until 1965 The Lever Brothers factory, on White Bay at Balmain landed coal as well as copra at its wharf.\n\nCoal was distributed by coal lighters (or barges); the R.W. Miller company had its origins in operation of coal lighters on Sydney Harbour. Some coal during the period from 1897 to 1931 was sourced locally from the Balmain Colliery and distributed by coal lighter. The Balmain Colliery had a wharf at which ships took on bunker coal. \n\nAlthough far less important than Sydney Harbour as a coal port, some coal was unloaded at the 'Government Pier' (or 'Long Pier') - constructed in 1885 - at Botany on the northern shore of Botany Bay, near where Hill Street joins Botany Road today. The coal unloaded here was for nearby industrial users. Coal for the Bunnerong Power Station - opened in 1929 - came by rail. Botany Bay was, in those days, a shallow port with sandbanks and could only be used by smaller ships.\n\nLake Macquarie ceased to be a coal port in the early part of the C20th. The Swansea Channel was no longer dredged after the 1930s, and could no longer be used by even the small steamships that had used Lake Maquarie as a port. \n\nThe coastal coal carrying trade from the northern part of the southern coalfields ended relatively early, as the southern coalfield ocean jetties closed; the last two were the Bulli Jetty, (closed 1943) and the South Bulli Jetty at Bellambi (closed in 1952). Coal was last shipped from Wollongong Harbour in 1933. The remaining coastal trade from the southern coalfields used the one remaining port, Pt Kembla, and continued until the 1960s. Pt Kembla is now a coal export port.\n\nThe demand for bunkering coal declined as coal-fueled steamships became less common in the 1950s and 1960s. The Waverton Coal Loader, which was mainly used to load bunker coal, ceased being used in 1963 and closed, for the first time, in 1964. The Manly Gasworks at Little Manly Point also closed in 1964. The Balmain Power Station closed in 1965.\n\n31 December 1971 was a critical turning point; the huge Mortlake gasworks ceased making town gas from coal. Petroleum replaced coal as a feedstock for town gas-making, and oil refinery gas was purchased to supplement supply, during the interval until Sydney's gas was converted to natural gas in December 1976. Although the Waverton gasworks site continued to be used until 1987, town gas making operations ceased with the conversion of the North Shore to natural gas. The North Shore Gas Company became 50% owned by AGL by 1974 and became a wholly owned subsidiary in 1980.\n\nIn the 1960s and 1970s there was a decline in the use of coal as hospital and industrial heating converted to other energy sources, as awareness of air pollution caused by burning black coal increased. Heavy fuel oil, a by-product of local oil refining operations in Sydney, became more available as an alternative fuel to coal for brickmaking that was cleaner-burning and less bulky to transport and store.\n\nThe mid-1950s and 1960s saw a huge downturn in the coal industry, resulting in a many mine closures, a number of company mergers - forming the Coal & Allied Industries group - and the rapid decline of the huge South Maitland coalfield that fed the port at Hexham. The Richmond Vale Railway to Hexham closed in September 1987. The three coal loaders at Hexham closed in 1967, 1973 and 1988 respectively. The last ship to load coal at Hexham was the \"MV Camira\" in May 1988. The coal unloader, at Blackwattle Bay - by then part of the Coal & Allied group - closed during the 1980s, likely coinciding with the closure of the last loader at Hexham. The 'sixty-miler' \"MV Stephen Brown\" was donated by its owners, Coal and Allied, to the Australian Maritime College in Launceston, Tasmania, in April 1983.\n\nAlthough local demand for coal was falling, demand in the export market increased particularly after the Oil Crises of 1973 and 1979.\n\nIn 1976, the Waverton Coal Loader, reopened as an export trans-shipment terminal. After 1976, most of the coal moved by the few remaining 'sixty-milers' was destined for export.The last 'sixty-miler' to carry coal to Sydney - the \"MV Camira\" built in 1980 - ceased operating the run around 1993, with the final closure of the Waverton Coal Loader in that year marking the effective end of the coastal coal-carrying trade to Sydney. The \"MV Camira\" was sold in 1993 and converted to a livestock carrier. \n\nDuring the 1980s the development of Newcastle as a bulk coal export port resulted in a revival of coastal coal shipping, this time to Newcastle. Purpose built in 1986, a new self-discharging collier the \"MV Wallarah\" – the fourth collier to bear the name and, at 5,717 gross tonnage, far larger than a true ‘sixty-miler’ – carried coal from Catherine Hill Bay to Newcastle, where it was unloaded for export at the Port Waratah Coal Loader, Carrington. This last echo of the coastal coal-carrying trade ended on 22 July 2002.\n\nThe Dyke and the Basin are still part of the port of Newcastle. The last of the hydraulic cranes at The Basin in Newcastle were demolished in 1967 to make way for a modern export coal-loader but the bases for fixed hydraulic cranes 7, 8, 9 and 10 survive. The associated Carrington Pump House building still survives in Bourke St Carrington, although its equipment was removed and its chimneys demolished long ago. \n\nThe Outer Harbour at Port Kembla and its breakwaters remain, as a part of an enlarged port that has a major coal export terminal - located on the newer Inner Harbour - but all the old coal jetties are gone. \n\nAll the ocean jetties are gone, except the disused jetty at Catherine Hill Bay. The Coalcliff jetty mine site is visible beneath the Sea Cliff Bridge. Iron dowel pins and an iron mooring ring in the rock are all that remain of the Hicks Point Jetty at Austinmer.\n\nWollongong Harbour been a fishing port, since the Illawarra Steam Navigation Company ended freight services in 1948. Belmore Basin survives including the upper-level where the coal straithes once were located, as does the concrete and iron base for the crane of the former 'Tee-Wharf'. Two cuttings, at the southern end of North Wollongong Beach, on the Tramway Shared Path, are remnants of the rail line from the Mt Pleasant Colliery that was removed in 1936.\n\nThe old bridge over the Hunter River at Hexham opened in 1952 has a lifting span – no longer in use – which allowed the ‘sixty milers’ to access the one coal loader that was upstream of the bridge's location. The Stockton Bridge opened in 1971 has a 30m clearance to allow ships to use the North Channel of the Hunter River that leads to Hexham. The Hexham coal loaders are all gone. The last of the Coal & Allied facilities at Hexham - the Hexham Coal Washery - was demolished in 1989.\n\nOnly a small part of the South Maitland Railway remained in use for coal traffic by 2018. A very few of the 13,000 'non-air' coal wagons of the northern coalfields survive at the Richmond Vale Railway Museum. The NSW Rail Museum has on display two 10-ton 'non-air four-wheel wagons; one J & A Brown wagon from the northern coalfields and one South Bulli wagon from the southern coalfields.\nParts of the Ball's Head Coal Loader at Waverton have been converted to public space, with the derelict loading wharf remaining safely off-limits. Ships are still moored at the unloading wharf, but the ships now are ones undergoing restoration. One of the tunnels beneath the stockpile platform still has a movable chute used by the original loading system. The site has interpretive signage that provides information covering in detail the history of the site.\n\nBy September 2018, only a little of the Blackwattle Bay coal faciliity had survived. The site is derelict and overgrown. There is a derelict brick building - the former gate-house - and one side of the coal bunker structure. The timber wharf is gone although the reclaimed land where the rest of the bunker stood remains. There are rusted remains of some coal handling equipment, including grabs and pieces of gantry crane structure. The gantry crane was demolished at some time after 1992. A partial collapse of the coal bunker occurred as a result of a downpour on 12 February 2007and some of the damaged structures were demolished in 2007. The NSW Government announced in 2016 that the Sydney Fish Markets would be relocated to the old wharf area adjoining Pyrmont Bridge Rd. That would allow to existing Fish Market site – in the shadow of the Anzac Bridge - to be redeveloped as apartment buildings. Based on what is known of the plans for the site, it appears that the remainder of the old coal facility will be demolished to make way for the new Fish Market complex.\n\nThe site of the old Manly Gasworks is now a public park, Little Manly Point Park. The North Shore Gas Company site at Waverton is now mixed use, with some public open space and lots of apartment buildings; there are a few repurposed buildings from the old gasworks remaining (the Boiler House, the Exhauster House, the Carburetted Water Gas Plant and the chimney).The Mortlake Gasworks site is now given over to housing and is known as Breakfast Point. The Gladesville Bridge, opened in 1964, was designed as a high concrete arch to allow 'sixty-milers' to reach Mortlake; it replaced an earlier bridge with an opening span. The old Neutral Bay Gasworks site was used as a torpedo factory during WWII and later as a submarine base for many years, and is now in the process of being repurposed; the first stage of \"Sub Base Platypus\" opened in May 2018. A short laneway in Millers Point - Gas Lane - is a reminder of the Millers Point gasworks, the first in Australia.\n\nAll the foreshore industries that used coal and their coal wharves are gone, making way for residential development or repurposing. One coal bunker, the powerhouse building and its chimney remain standing on Cockatoo Island. \n\nSome piers of the old Government Pier at Botany on the northern shore of Botany Bay were still standing in 2002. The area is now part of Port Botany, which has supplanted Sydney Harbour as the main cargo port of Sydney.\n\nThere is one remaining 'sixty-miler' afloat, the \"MV Stephen Brown,\" although no longer in use as a collier\".\" She is used as a stationary training vessel by the Australian Maritime College. Wrecks of other 'sixty-milers' exist at Homebush Bay in Sydney and on the sea bed near Sydney.\n"}
{"id": "1122543", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1122543", "title": "Confederación de Trabajadores de Venezuela", "text": "Confederación de Trabajadores de Venezuela\n\nThe Confederación de Trabajadores de Venezuela (CTV, English: Confederation of Workers of Venezuela) is a federation of labor unions in Venezuela. It has close links to the Democratic Action party.\n\nThe union federation has been a consistent and key opponent of Venezuelan President Hugo Chávez. In the year 2001, two years after his first election to President, Chávez's government ordered the union federation to undertake its first-ever direct leadership elections. Although the Supreme Court refused to certify the results, the winner Carlos Ortega assumed the presidency. The International Labour Organization (ILO) and International Confederation of Free Trade Unions (ICFTU) condemned Chávez's interference in the affairs of free trade unions.\n\nIn 2002 and 2003, the CTV received funding from the United States' National Endowment for Democracy via the American Center for International Labor Solidarity.\n\nIn 2003, a new union federation, the \"Unión Nacional de Trabajadores de Venezuela\" (UNT, National Union of Workers) was started by people in the labor movement who supported Chávez. Some unions disaffiliated with the CTV and affiliated with the UNT.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "461563", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=461563", "title": "Deep Throat (film)", "text": "Deep Throat (film)\n\nDeep Throat is a 1972 American pornographic film that was at the forefront of the Golden Age of Porn (1969–1984). The film was written and directed by Gerard Damiano, who was listed in the credits as \"Jerry Gerard\"; produced by Louis Peraino, credited as \"Lou Perry\"; and starring Linda Lovelace, the pseudonym given to Linda Susan Boreman.\n\nOne of the first pornographic films to feature a plot, character development, and relatively high production values, \"Deep Throat\" earned mainstream attention and launched the \"porno chic\" trend, even though the film was banned in some jurisdictions and was the subject of obscenity trials.\n\nA sexually frustrated woman, Linda Lovelace (Linda Boreman), asks her friend Helen (Dolly Sharp) for advice on how to achieve an orgasm. After a sex party provides no help, Helen recommends that Linda visit a psychiatrist, Dr. Young (Harry Reems). The doctor discovers that Linda's clitoris is located in her throat, and after he helps her to develop her oral sex skills, the infatuated Linda asks him to marry her. He informs her that she can settle for a job as his therapist, performing her particular oral technique—thereafter known as \"deep throat\"—on various men, until she finds the one to marry. Meanwhile, the doctor documents her exploits while repeatedly having sex with his nurse (Carol Connors). Linda finally meets a man who can make her happy, agreeing to marry him. The movie ends with the line \"The End. And Deep Throat to you all.\"\n\nIn a March 1973 column, critic Roger Ebert gave the film a rare \"no star\" rating and wrote: \"It is all very well and good for Linda Lovelace, the star of the movie, to advocate sexual freedom; but the energy she brings to her role is less awesome than discouraging. If you have to work this hard at sexual freedom, maybe it isn't worth the effort.\"\n\nAl Goldstein wrote a rave review in his \"SCREW\" magazine, saying \"I was never so moved by any theatrical performance since stuttering through my own bar mitzvah.\"\n\n\"Deep Throat\" officially premiered at the World Theater in New York on June 12, 1972, and was advertised in \"The New York Times\" under the bowdlerized title \"Throat\".\n\nThe film's popularity helped launch a brief period of upper-middle class interest in explicit pornography referred to by Ralph Blumenthal of \"The New York Times\" as \"porno chic\". Several mainstream celebrities admitted to having seen \"Deep Throat\", including Martin Scorsese, Brian De Palma, Truman Capote, Jack Nicholson, Johnny Carson, Spiro Agnew, and Frank Sinatra. Barbara Walters mentions having seen the film in her autobiography, \"\". Jimmy McMillan considers it to be his favorite film.\n\nThe film's title soon became a pop culture reference, most notably when Howard Simons, the then-managing editor of \"The Washington Post\", chose \"Deep Throat\" as the code name for a well guarded secret Watergate inside informant about the 1972-1974 political scandals that plagued the administration of President Richard M. Nixon, many years later revealed to be assistant FBI director W. Mark Felt.\n\nThe scenes involving Linda Lovelace were shot in North Miami, Florida, over six days in January 1972. The interior scenes were shot at a hotel between 123rd and 124th Streets on Biscayne Boulevard, then known as the Voyager Inn. The building was subsequently converted to a dormitory for Johnson & Wales University. The scenes involving Carol Connors were shot in New York City.\n\nThe movie was produced by Louis \"Butchie\" Peraino, who was listed in the credits as \"Lou Perry\". Peraino was the owner of Plymouth Distributing, which he later renamed Arrow Film and Video. The entire production cost of $22,500, and an additional $25,000 for music, was provided by Peraino's father, Anthony Peraino, a member of the Colombo crime family. Gerard Damiano, who had rights to one-third of the profits, was reportedly paid a lump sum of $25,000 once the film became popular and was forced out of the partnership. The film was then distributed by a network of Mafia-connected associates of the Peraino family.\n\"Deep Throat\" grossed $1 million in its first seven weeks of release in 1972, including a then-porn film single-screen record of $30,033 in its opening week at New York City's New World Theatre. The film made a then-record $3 million in its first six months of release and was still ranked among the top 10 highest-grossing films, as ranked by \"Variety\", 48 weeks after its release.\n\nEstimates of the film's total revenues have varied widely: numbers as high as $600 million have been cited, which would make \"Deep Throat\" one of the highest-grossing films of all time. With an average ticket price of $5, box-office takings of $600 million would imply 120 million admissions, an unrealistic figure. Although subsequent sales of the film on home video certainly brought additional revenue, the FBI's estimate that the film produced an income of approximately $100 million may be closer to the truth. Michael Hiltzik of the \"Los Angeles Times\" also argues for a lower figure in a February 2005 article, pointing out that \"Deep Throat\" was banned outright in large parts of the US (as well as many other countries), and only tended to find screenings in a small network of adult theaters in larger urban centers. The directors of \"Inside Deep Throat\" responded to the article, suggesting that actual revenues from the film were possibly even higher than the $600 million figure. Hiltzik was unsatisfied with the directors' response, writing that their method was to \"construct a seemingly solid box office figure out of layers and layers of speculation piled upon a foundation of sand\".\n\nRoger Ebert noted as well in his review of \"Inside Deep Throat\", a 2005 documentary about the film's cultural legacy, that many theaters that screened the film were mob-connected enterprises, which probably also \"inflated box office receipts as a way of laundering income from drugs and prostitution\" and other illegal activities.\n\nIn 2006, a censored edition of the film was released on DVD for fans of pop culture and those wishing to own a non-X-rated copy of the infamous movie. \"Deep Throat\" was the first film to be inducted into the XRCO Hall of Fame.\n\nIn her first two biographies, Linda Boreman characterized having made the film as a liberating experience; in her third and fourth biographies, both of which were written after she had come out with her stories of sexual abuse, rape, and forced prostitution in the porn business, she charged that she had not consented to many of the depicted sexual acts and that she had been coerced to perform by her abusive then-husband Chuck Traynor, who received $1,250 for her acting. She also claimed that Traynor threatened to kill her, brandishing handguns and rifles to control her.\n\nIn 1986, she testified before the Meese Commission, \"Virtually every time someone watches that movie, they're watching me being raped.\" In the \"Toronto Sun\" on March 20, 1981 she said, \"It is a crime that movie is still showing; there was a gun to my head the entire time.\" While the other people present on the set did not support the gun charge, both Traynor and Damiano confirmed in interviews that Traynor was extremely controlling towards Boreman and also hit her on occasion. In the documentary \"Inside Deep Throat\", it is claimed that bruises are visible on Boreman's body in the movie.\n\nThese allegations were cited in the UK Government's Rapid Evidence Assessment on \"The evidence of harm to adults relating to exposure to extreme pornographic material\" as part of its plans to criminalize possession of what it termed \"extreme pornography\".\n\nIn various United States communities, the movie was shown to juries to determine whether it was obscene; the outcomes varied widely and the movie was banned in numerous locations.\n\nIn August 1972, after a jury in New York had found the movie not to be obscene, prosecutors decided to charge Mature Enterprises, the company that owned the World Theater, for promotion of obscene material, taking them to trial in December. During the trial, a psychiatrist testified that the film portrayed acts that were \"well within the bounds of normal behavior\". A film critic testified the movie had social value because it showed sympathy for female desires, because the script contained humor and because it was filmed \"with clarity and lack of grain\". Conversely, in response to a claim the film was a spoof of sexual behavior, a New York University professor said, \"I do not see how you can spoof fellatio by showing continuous performance of fellatio.\" On March 1, 1973, Judge Joel J. Tyler ruled \"Deep Throat\" to be obscene, issuing his opinion on the film as \"this feast of carrion and squalor\", \"a nadir of decadence\" and \"a Sodom and Gomorrah gone wild before the fire\". Judge Tyler fined Mature Enterprises $100,000, which was later reduced on appeal. The ruling would inadvertently contribute to the film becoming perhaps the most popular X rated movie of all time.\n\nIn 1976, there was a series of federal cases in Memphis, Tennessee, where over 60 individuals and companies, including the Perainos and actor Harry Reems, were indicted for conspiracy to distribute obscenity across state lines. Damiano and Lovelace were granted immunity in exchange for testimony. The Hon. Harry W. Wellford was the Federal District Court judge who heard the case. The trials ended in convictions. This was the first time that an actor had been prosecuted by the federal government on obscenity charges (Lenny Bruce had been prosecuted in the 1960s by local authorities.) Reems became a \"cause célèbre\" and received considerable support from Hollywood circles. On appeal, he was represented by Alan Dershowitz, and his conviction was overturned: the Miller test had been applied in his case. The Perainos and some other major players connected to organized crime received short prison sentences.\n\nIn 1995, while in Las Vegas for an obscenity trial, Louis Peraino met and befriended Raymond and Treasure Pistol, local adult club owners, and sold the Pistols the rights to his entire library, including \"Deep Throat\".\n\nIn the UK, the movie was banned upon release, and the ban was upheld by the courts 10 years later. The uncut DVD of the movie was finally given an R18 rating in 2000, which allowed it to be sold in licensed sex shops in the UK.\n\n\"Deep Throat\" was released without a copyright notice. Because Peraino had used four wall distribution for all of \"Deep Throat's\" releases, that left the potential for the film to be classified as an unpublished work, preventing it from falling into the public domain. Peraino sold the rights to the film to Arrow Productions for home video release (including a copyright notice) at some point prior to 2009. Despite Arrow holding the rights, rival pornography distributor VCX began distributing \"Deep Throat\" as retaliation for Arrow's distribution of \"Debbie Does Dallas\" and \"The Devil in Miss Jones\", two films VCX asserted were under their copyright. (In the former case, \"Debbie Does Dallas\" was determined to be public domain in a 1987 court ruling.) In order to prevent VCX from challenging the copyright on \"Deep Throat\", Arrow Productions agreed in 2011 to voluntarily stop distributing \"Debbie Does Dallas\" and \"The Devil in Miss Jones\", thus leaving their copyright statuses unresolved.\n\nOn February 23, 2008, the Netherlands Public Broadcasting corporations VPRO and BNN screened \"Deep Throat\" on national television as part of a themed night on the history of pornographic films, and the influence of pornography in youth culture in the Netherlands. Although the film aired after 10 p.m., following a guideline for adult television, and was embedded in a discussion program, several political parties (especially Dutch cabinet member party ChristianUnion) were clamoring for steps to be taken to prevent airing. The Minister of Education and Media, Ronald Plasterk, declared that he could not and did not want to forbid the airing of the film. The movie was seen by 907,000 viewers.\n\nIn December 2014, \"The Rialto Report\", a web site devoted to the history of the so-called Golden Age of Porn, made the surprise announcement that the supporting actress billed as Dolly Sharp, who had vanished into obscurity shortly after the release of \"Deep Throat\", was in fact Helen Wood (1935–1998), a former Broadway performer who, as a teenager, had a major role in the 1953 Hollywood musical \"Give a Girl a Break\".\n\nAn original soundtrack album for the film was released in 1972. Few copies exist today and when on the market, they have sold for as much as US$300. The album contains both instrumental and vocals tracks as well as short snippets of dialog from the film (indicated with quotations in the list below). All artists are unknown. A remixed and remastered CD and LP version is available from Light in the Attic Records (see links). Director Gerard Damiano reportedly cut the sex scenes to conform to different musical cues. The film opens with an instrumental track that echoes the hook of the 1968 easy listening hit, \"Do You Know the Way to San Jose\".\n\n\nThe original sequel to \"Deep Throat\" – \"Deep Throat Part II\" – was written and directed by Joseph W. Sarno and featured the original stars Linda Lovelace and Harry Reems. Shot in New York City in early 1973, it was released in New York in February 1974 with an MPAA \"R\" rating. Although attributed to Damiano Films, \"Deep Throat\" director Gerard Damiano was not involved with its production. The film was produced, however, by \"Deep Throat\" producer Louis Peraino, who had in the meantime founded the mainstream distribution company Bryanston Films. The version of \"Deep Throat Part II\" currently available on DVD is bowdlerized to the point where the film contains virtually no sexual content of any sort, probably a byproduct of its efforts to receive an MPAA R rating at the time of its release. An Italian DVD release of the film, however, contains its original softcore sex scenes. It has long been claimed that \"Deep Throat Part II\" was originally shot with the intention of releasing it as a hardcore feature and that hardcore sequences shot for the film were stolen while the film was in post-production. Director Joe Sarno, however, has insisted in interviews that this is not the case.\n\nVivid Entertainment owner Steven Hirsch told XFANZ reporters at the FAME Awards in June 2008 that the company is producing a remake of \"Deep Throat\". The making of this film was the subject of the Showtime original series \"Deeper Throat\".\n\nVivid had planned to release its remake but Arrow Productions, the copyright owner did not like the deviation from the original storyline or the manner in which the film was directed and cast. They then withdrew permission to make the remake to \"Deep Throat\", and forced Steve Hirsch to remarket and edit his movie for copyright purposes.\n\nHirsch changed the name of the title to \"\", and it was released in March 2009.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6002", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6002", "title": "Demographics of the Comoros", "text": "Demographics of the Comoros\n\nThe Comorians inhabiting Grande Comore, Anjouan, and Mohéli (86% of the population) share African-Arab origins. Islam is the dominant religion, and Quranic schools for children reinforce its influence. Although Islamic culture is firmly established throughout, a small minority are Christian.\n\nThe most common language is Comorian, related to Swahili. French and Arabic also are spoken. About 89% of the population is literate.\n\nThe Comoros have had seven censuses since World War II:\n\nPopulation density figures conceal a great disparity between the republic's most crowded island, Nzwani, which had a density of 470 persons per square kilometer in 1991; Ngazidja, which had a density of 250 persons per square kilometer in 1991; and Mwali, where the 1991 population density figure was 120 persons per square kilometer. Overall population density increased to about 285 persons per square kilometer by 1994.\nBy comparison, estimates of the population density per square kilometer of the Indian Ocean's other island microstates ranged from 241 (Seychelles) to 690 (Maldives) in 1993. Given the rugged terrain of Ngazidja and Nzwani, and the dedication of extensive tracts to agriculture on all three islands, population pressures on the Comoros are becoming increasingly critical.\n\nThe age structure of the population of the Comoros is similar to that of many developing countries, in that the republic has a very large proportion of young people. In 1989, 46.4 percent of the population was under fifteen years of age, an above-average proportion even for sub-Saharan Africa. The population's rate of growth was a relatively high 3.5 percent per annum in the mid 1980s, up substantially from 2.0 percent in the mid-1970s and 2.1 percent in the mid-1960s.\n\nIn 1983 the Abdallah regime borrowed US$2.85 million from the International Development Association to devise a national family planning program. However, Islamic reservations about contraception made forthright advocacy and implementation of birth control programs politically hazardous, and consequently little was done in the way of public policy.\n\nThe Comorian population has become increasingly urbanized in recent years. In 1991 the percentage of Comorians residing in cities and towns of more than 5,000 persons was about 30 percent, up from 25 percent in 1985 and 23 percent in 1980. The Comoros' largest cities were the capital, Moroni, with about 30,000 people, and the port city of Mutsamudu, on the island of Nzwani, with about 20,000 people.\n\nMigration among the various islands is important. Natives of Nzwani have settled in significant numbers on less crowded Mwali, causing some social tensions, and many Nzwani also migrate to Maore. In 1977 Maore expelled peasants from Ngazidja and Nzwani who had recently settled in large numbers on the island. Some were allowed to reenter starting in 1981 but solely as migrant labor.\n\nThe number of Comorians living abroad has been estimated at between 80,000 and 100,000; during the colonial period, most of them lived in Tanzania, Madagascar, and other parts of Southeast Africa. The number of Comorians residing in Madagascar was drastically reduced after anti-Comorian rioting in December 1976 in Mahajanga, in which at least 1,400 Comorians were killed. As many as 17,000 Comorians left Madagascar to seek refuge in their native land in 1977 alone. About 100,000 Comorians live in France; many of them had gone there for a university education and never returned. Small numbers of Indians, Malagasy, South Africans, and Europeans (mostly French) live on the islands and play an important role in the economy. Most French left after independence in 1975.\n\nSome Persian Gulf countries started buying Comorian citizenship for their stateless bidoon residents and deporting them to Comoros.\n\nUN medium variant projections.\n\nStatistics :\nTotal Fertility Rate (TFR) (Wanted Fertility Rate) and Crude Birth Rate (CBR):\n\nStructure of the population (DHS 2012) (Males 11 088, Females 12 284 = 23 373) :\n\nFertility data as of 2012 (DHS Program):\n\nThe following demographic statistics are from the CIA World Factbook, unless otherwise indicated.\n\n"}
{"id": "177059", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=177059", "title": "Dinaric race", "text": "Dinaric race\n\nThe Dinaric race, also known as the Adriatic race, were terms used by certain physical anthropologists in the early to mid-20th century to describe the perceived predominant phenotype of the contemporary ethnic groups of Central and Southeast Europe (a sub-type of Caucasoid race).\n\nThe concept of a Dinaric race originated with Joseph Deniker in the late 19th century, but became most closely associated with the writings of Carleton S. Coon and Nazi eugenicist Hans F. K. Günther. The term was derived from the Dinaric Alps (the western part of the Southeastern Europe) which was supposed to be the principal habitat of the race.\n\nAccording to Jan Czekanowski, the Dinaric race is a mixed type consisting of the Nordic race and Mediterranean race, which he proves by anthropological research involving geographical data, cephalic index, and characteristic racial features. He states:\n\n\"The Dinaric type is characterized by quite light skin, dark hair from dark brown to dark blonde, and a wide range of eye color; tall stature, a brachycephalic skull, long face, a very narrow and prominent nose, sometimes aquiline; a slender body type, and very big feet.\"\n\nCharacteristics were defined as very tall, mostly mesomorph bodily build, with relatively long legs and short trunk and a long arm span. The overall anatomy of the head was said to be brachycephalic to hyperbrachycephalic (Cranial index: 81–86), i.e. a combination of high breadth of head and medium length of the neurocranium, whose back part is often somewhat flattened (planoccipital).\n\nThe type has been described as follows:\nThe vertical height of the cranium is high. Eyes are set relatively close and the surrounding tissue defines them as wide open. The iris is most often brown, with a significant percentage of light pigmentation in the Dinaric population. The nose is large, narrow and convex. The face is long and orthognathic, with a prominent chin, and also wide. The form of the forehead is variable, but not rarely it is bulbous. The hair color is usually dark brown, with black-haired and blond individuals in minority, blondness being the characteristic of the more Central European, morphologically similar Noric race (a race intermediate between Nordic and Dinaric races). The skin is lacking the rosy color characteristic for Northern Europe as well as the relatively brunet pigmentation characteristic for the southernmost Europe and on a geographical plane it is of medium pigmentation and often it is variable.\n\nSeveral theories were advanced regarding the genesis of the Dinaric race. Most researchers agreed that this race was autochthonous to its present habitat from the Neolithic period. Both Günther and Coon claimed that the Bell-Beaker people of the European Bronze Age were at least partially Dinaric.\n\nCoon also argued, however, in \"The Origin of Races\" (1962), that the Dinaric and some other categories \"are not races but simply the visible expressions of the genetic variability of the intermarrying groups to which they belong.\"\n\nHe referred to the creation of this distinctive phenotype from the mixing of earlier separate groups as \"dinaricisation\". In his view Dinarics were a specific type that arose from ancient mixes of the Mediterranean race and Alpine race.\n\nAccording to the Dinaric model, Dinarics were to be found mainly in the mountainous areas of Southeast Europe: Croatia, Serbia, Montenegro, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Albania, Slovenia, Austria, part of northwestern Bulgaria, and northwestern Republic of Macedonia. Northern and eastern Italy was considered mostly a Dinaric area as well as western Greece, Romania, western Ukraine, southern Poland, southeastern German-speaking areas, and parts of southeastern France.\n\nThe Noric race () was a racial category proposed by the anthropologist Victor Lebzelter. The \"Noric race\" was supposed to be a lighter sub-type of the Dinaric race. The term derived from Noricum, a province of the Roman Empire roughly equivalent to southern Austria. The term is not to be confused with Nordic.\n\nNorics were characterized by tall stature, brachycephaly, nasal convexity, long face and broad forehead. Their complexion was said to be light, and blondness combined with light eyes to be their anthropologic characteristic.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22037708", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22037708", "title": "Environmental impact of pharmaceuticals and personal care products", "text": "Environmental impact of pharmaceuticals and personal care products\n\nThe environmental effect of pharmaceuticals and personal care products (PPCPs) is currently being widely investigated. PPCPs include substances used by individuals for personal health or cosmetic reasons and the products used by agribusiness to boost growth or health of livestock. More than twenty million tons of PPCPs are produced every year. PPCPs have been detected in water bodies throughout the world. The effects of these chemicals on humans and the environment are not yet known, but to date there is no scientific evidence that they affect human health.\n\nFurther research is needed to evaluate the risks of toxicity, persistence, and bioaccumulation. PPCPs encompass environmental persistent pharmaceutical pollutants (EPPPs) and are one type of persistent organic pollutants. They are not removed from wastewater by conventional methods. The European Union has declared pharmaceutical residues with the potential of contamination of water and soil to be \"priority substances\".\n\nSince the 1990s, water contamination by pharmaceuticals has been an environmental issue of concern. In addition, it is important to note that many public health professionals in the United States began writing reports of pharmaceutical contamination in waterways in the 1970s.” Most pharmaceuticals are deposited in the environment through human consumption and excretion, and are often filtered ineffectively by municipal sewage treatment plants which are not designed to manage them. Once in the water, they can have diverse, subtle effects on organisms, although research is still limited. Pharmaceuticals may also be deposited in the environment through improper disposal, runoff from sludge fertilizer and reclaimed wastewater irrigation, and leaky sewer pipes. In 2009, an investigative report by Associated Press concluded that U.S. manufacturers had legally released 271 million pounds of compounds used as drugs into the environment, 92% of which was the industrial chemicals phenol and hydrogen peroxide, which are also used as antiseptics. It could not distinguish between drugs released by manufacturers as opposed to the pharmaceutical industry. It also found that an estimated 250 million pounds of pharmaceuticals and contaminated packaging were discarded by hospitals and long-term care facilities. The series of articles led to a hearing conducted by the U.S. Senate Subcommittee on Transportation Safety, Infrastructure Security, and Water Quality. This hearing was designed to address the levels of pharmaceutical contaminants in U.S. drinking water. This was the first time that pharmaceutical companies were questioned about their waste disposal methods. \"No federal regulations or laws were created as a result of the hearing.\" \"Between the years of 1970-2018 more than 3000 pharmaceutical chemicals were manufactured, but only 17 are screened or tested for in waterways.\" Alternately, \"There are no studies designed to examine the effects of pharmaceutical contaminated drinking water on human health.” In parallel, the European Union is the second biggest consumer in the world (24% of the world total) after the USA and in the majority of EU Member States, around 50% of unused human medicinal products is not collected to be disposed of properly. In the EU, between 30 and 90% of the orally administered doses are estimated to be excreted as the active substances in the urine.\n\nThe term environmental persistent pharmaceutical pollutants (EPPP) was suggested in the 2010 nomination of pharmaceuticals and environment as an emerging issue to Strategic Approach to International Chemicals Management (SAICM) by the International Society of Doctors for the Environment (ISDE).\n\nDepending on the sources and ingredients, there are various ways in which the public can dispose of pharmaceutical and personal care products in acceptable ways. The most environmentally safe disposal method is to take advantage of a community drug take-back programs that collect drugs at a central location for proper disposal. Several local public health departments in the United States have initiated these programs. In addition, the United States Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA) periodically promotes local take-back programs, as well as the National Take Back Initiative.\n\nCurrently, take-back programs are funded by state or local health departments or are volunteer programs through pharmacies or health care providers. In recent years, the proposition that pharmaceutical companies should be responsible for their products “from the cradle to the grave,” has been gaining traction. This philosophy suggests that the manufacturers should fund the proper disposal of pharmaceutical products. Take-back programs should exist in every community, and, if further information is required on this, city officials should be contacted. If no such program exists locally, the Environmental Protection Agency and the Office of National Drug Control Policy suggest that consumers do the following:\n\nThis will hopefully keep these chemicals separated from the open environment and especially water bodies long enough for them to naturally break down.\n\nWhen these substances find their way into water, it is much more difficult to deal with them. Water treatment facilities use different processes in order to minimize or fully eliminate these pollutants. This is done by using sorption where suspended solids are removed by sedimentation. Another method used is biodegradation, and through this method microorganisms, such as bacteria and fungi, feed on or break down these pollutants thus eliminating them from the contaminated media.\n\nPharmaceuticals, or prescription and over-the-counter medications made for human use or veterinary or agribusiness purposes, are common PPCPs found in the environment. There are nine classes of pharmaceuticals included in PPCPs: hormones, antibiotics, lipid regulators, nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, beta-blockers, antidepressants, anticonvulsants, antineoplastics, and diagnostic contrast media.\n\nPersonal care products have four classes: fragrances, preservatives, disinfectants, and sunscreen agents. These products may be found in cosmetics, perfumes, menstrual care products, lotions, shampoos, soaps, toothpastes, and sunscreen. These products typically enter the environment when passed through or washed off the body and into the ground or sewer lines, or when disposed of in the trash, septic tank, or sewage system.\n\nTraces of illicit drugs can be found in waterways and may even be carried by money.\n\nMore attention has been devoted of late to PPCPs in the environment. Two causes may contribute to this: PPCPs are actually increasing in the environment due to widespread use and/or analytical technology is better able to detect PPCPs in the environment. These substances enter the environment directly or indirectly. Direct methods include contamination of surface water by hospitals, households, industries, or wastewater treatment plants. Direct contamination can also affect the sediment and soil.\n\nIt is generally assumed (albeit hardly verified) that the production of pharmaceuticals in industrialised countries is well controlled and unharmful to the environment, due to the local legal restrictions usually required to permit production. However, a substantial fraction of the global production of pharmaceuticals takes place in low-cost production countries like India and China. Recent reports from India demonstrate that such production sites may emit very large quantities of e.g. antibiotics, yielding levels of the drugs in local surface waters higher than those found in the blood of patients under treatment.\n\nThe major route for pharmaceutical residues to reach the aquatic environment is most probably by excretion from patients undergoing pharma treatment. Since many pharmaceutical substances are not metabolized in the body they may be excreted in biologically active form, usually via the urine. Furthermore, many pharmaceutical substances are not fully taken up from the intestine (following oral administration in patients) into their blood stream. The fraction not taken up into the blood stream will remain in the gut and eventually be excreted via the faeces. Hence, both urine and faeces from treated patients contain pharmaceutical residues. Between 30 and 90% of the orally administered dose is generally excreted as active substance in the urine.\n\nAn additional source to environmental pollution with pharmaceuticals is improper disposal of unused or expired drug residues. In European countries take-back systems for such residues are usually in place (although not always utilized to full extent) while in e.g. the US only voluntary initiatives on a local basis exist. Though most of the waste goes to incineration and people are asked to throw unused or expired pharmaceuticals into the household waste investigations in Germany showed that up to 24% of liquid pharmaceuticals and 7% of tablets or ointments are disposed always or at least “rarely” via the toilet or sink.\n\nProper destruction of pharma residues should yield rest products without any pharmaceutical or ecotoxic activity. Furthermore, the residues should not act as components in the environmental formation of new such products. Incineration at a high temperature (>1000 degrees Celsius) is considered to fulfill the requirements, but even following such incineration residual ashes from the incineration should be properly taken care of.\n\nPharmaceuticals used in veterinary medicine, or as additives to animal food, pose a different problem, since they are excreted into soil or possibly open surface waters. It is well known that such excretions may affect terrestrial organisms directly, leading to extinction of exposed species (e.g. dung-beetles). Lipid-soluble pharma residues from veterinary use may bind strongly to soil particles, with little tendency to leak out to ground water or to local surface waters. More water-soluble residues may be washed out with rain or melting snow and reach both ground water and surface water streams.\n\nThe use of pharmaceuticals and personal care products (PPCPs) is on the rise with an estimated increase from 2 billion to 3.9 billion annual prescriptions between 1999 and 2009 in the United States alone. PPCPs enter into the environment through individual human activity and as residues from manufacturing, agribusiness, veterinary use, and hospital and community use. In Europe, the input of pharmaceutical residues via domestic waste water is estimated to be around 80% whereas 20% is coming from hospitals. Individuals may add PPCPs to the environment through waste excretion and bathing as well as by directly disposing of unused medications to septic tanks, sewers, or trash. Because PPCPs tend to dissolve relatively easily and do not evaporate at normal temperatures, they often end up in soil and water bodies.\n\nSome PPCPs are broken down or processed easily by a human or animal body and/or degrade quickly in the environment . However, others do not break down or degrade easily. The likelihood or ease with which an individual substance will break down depends on its chemical makeup and the metabolic pathway of the compound.\n\nA 2002 study by the U.S. Geological Survey found detectable quantities of one or more chemicals in 80 percent of a sampling of 139 susceptible streams in 30 states. The most common pharmaceuticals detected were nonprescription drugs; detergents, fire retardants, pesticides, natural and synthetic hormones, and an assortment of antibiotics and prescription medications were also found.\n\nA 2006 study found detectable concentrations of 28 pharmaceutical compounds in sewage treatment plant effluents, surface water, and sediment. The therapeutic classes included antibiotics, analgesics and anti-inflammatories, lipid regulators, beta-blockers, anti-convulsant, and steroid hormones. Although most chemical concentrations were detected at low levels (nano-grams/Liter (ng/L)), there are uncertainties that remain regarding the levels at which toxicity occurs and the risks of bioaccumulation of these pharmaceutical compounds.\n\nA study published in late 2014 reported a spike in the levels of ecstasy, ketamine, caffeine and acetaminophen in nearby rivers coinciding with a Taiwanese youth event attended by around 600,000 people. In 2018, shellfish in Puget Sound, waters that receive treated sewage from the Seattle area, tested positive for oxycodone.\n\nBesides the identified input from human medicine there appears diffuse pollution for example from pharmaceuticals used in agriculture, too. Investigations in Germany, France and Scotland showed traces of PPCPs upstream of waste water treatment plant effluents to rivers, too.\n\nThe scope of human exposure to pharmaceuticals and personal care products from the environment is a complex function of many factors. These factors include the concentrations, types, and distribution of pharmaceuticals in the environment; the pharmacokinetics of each drug; the structural transformation of the chemical compounds either through metabolism or natural degradation processes; and the potential bioaccumulation of the drugs. More research is needed to determine the effects on humans of long-term exposure to low levels of PPCPs. The full effects of mixtures of low concentrations of different PPCPs is also unknown.\n\n\"The U.S. EPA risk assessment states that the acceptable daily intake (ADI) of pharmaceuticals is around 0.0027 mg/kg‐day.\" Due to the lack of research of toxicity guidelines and their effects on human health it is difficult to determine a healthy dosage for water contaminated by pharmaceuticals. \"The pharmaceutical sample size tested does not give a full representation of human exposure. Only 17 out of 3000 prescriptions are screened for in drinking water.\"\n\nIn addition, “The EPA and FDA regulations state that a drug or chemical is not considered harmful until clear evidence shows that a substance causes harm\". This means that we are not testing or screening for thousands of contaminants in our drinking water. Health risk assessments have not been conducted to provide concrete evidence to link pharmaceutical contamination and adverse human health effects.\n\n\"However adverse health outcomes are displayed in aquatic organisms. Fish living near water treatment plants have been reported to be feminized.\" \"Some male fish started to develop ovaries and other feminized characteristic due to pharmaceutical pollution some species have decreased in population due to exposure of EE2 and other hormonal ECD substances.\"\n\nAlthough research has shown that PPCPs are present in water bodies throughout the world, no studies have shown a direct effect on human health. However, the absence of empirical data cannot rule out the possibility of adverse outcomes due to interactions or long-term exposures to these substances. Because the amounts of these chemicals in the water supply may be in the parts per trillion or parts per billion, it is difficult to chemically determine the exact amounts present. Many studies have therefore been focused to determining if the concentrations of these pharmaceuticals exist at or above the accepted daily intake (ADI) at which the designed biological outcomes can occur.\n\nIn addition to the growing concerns about human health risks from pharmaceutical drugs via environmental exposures, many researchers have speculated about the potential for inducing an antibiotic resistance. One study found 10 different antibiotics in sewage treatment effluents, surface water, and sediments. Some microbiologists believe that if antibiotic concentrations are higher than the minimum inhibitory concentrations (MICs) of a species of pathogenic bacteria, a selective pressure would be exerted and, as a result, antibiotic resistance would be selectively promoted. It has also been proven that at even sub-inhibitory concentrations (e.g., one-fourth of the MIC), several antibiotics are able to have an effect on gene expression (e.g., as shown for the modulation of expression of toxin-encoding genes in Staphylococcus aureus).\n\nFor reference the MIC of erythromycin that is effective against 90 percent of lab grown Campylobacter bacteria, the most common food-borne pathogen in the United States, is 60 ng/mL. One study found that the average concentration of erythromycin, a commonly prescribed antibiotic, was 0.09 ng/mL in water treatment plant effluents. Additionally, transfer of genetic elements among bacteria has been observed under natural conditions in wastewater treatment plants, and selection of resistant bacteria has been documented in sewers receiving wastewaters from pharmaceutical plants. Moreover, antibiotic resistant bacteria may also remain in sewage sludge and enter the food chain if the sludge is not incinerated but used as fertilizer on agricultural land.\n\nThe relationship between risk perception and behavior is multifaceted. Risk management is most effective once the motivation behind the behavior of disposing unused pharmaceuticals is understood. There was little correlation found between the perception of risk and knowledge regarding pharmaceutical waste according to a study conducted by Cook and Bellis in 2001. This study cautioned against the effectiveness of attempting to change the public’s behavior on these health issues by warning them of the risks associated with their actions.\n\nIt is advised to take careful measures to inform the public in a way that does not impart guilt but rather public awareness. For example, a study carried out by Norlund and Garvill in Sweden (2003) that found that some people may make a personal sacrifice in terms of comfort because they feel that it would be helpful to reduce further environmental damage caused by the use of cars. Awareness of air pollution problems was a factor in their decision to take action on a more environmentally favorable choice of transportation. Thus, the goal of Bound’s project encapsulates whether the perception of risk associated with pharmaceuticals has an effect on the way in which medication is commonly disposed.\n\nIn order to conduct this study, the pharmaceuticals were grouped by their therapeutic action in order to help participants identify them. The eight therapeutic groups are listed below: antibacterials, antidepressants, antihistamines, antiepileptics, hormone treatments, and lipid regulators. Next, a survey was created to examine the disposal patterns of the participants and their perception of the existing risk or threat against the environment. Respondents were asked the following questions in part one of the survey: 1. When and how they disposed of pharmaceuticals. 2. How they perceive the risk to the environment posed by pharmaceuticals. 3. To differentiate between the risks associated with different classed of pharmaceuticals. Part two of the survey involved each of the eight pharmaceutical groups described above individually. Finally, the third part asked information about the age, sex, profession, postcode, and education of participants. The sample size of participants was precise in comparison to the actual distribution of males and females in the UK: Sample- 54.8 percent were female and 45.2 percent male vs. Actual- the UK of 51.3 percent female to 48.7 percent male. Results showed that when a medication must be discarded, 63.2 percent of participants throw them in a bin, 21.8 percent return them to a pharmacist, and 11.5 percent dispose of them via the toilet/sink, while the remaining 3.5 percent keep them. Only half of the respondents felt like pharmaceuticals could potentially be harmful to the environment. Upon examination of factors relevant to risk perception, there was no definite link found between perception and education or income.\n\nDr. Bound noted that participation in altruistic activities such as Environmental Conservation groups may provide members with the ability to better grasp the effects of their actions in the environment. In regards to the aquatic environment, it is hard for one to perceive the favorable effects of properly disposing medication. There also exists the plausibility that a person’s behavior will only be affected if there is a severe risk to themselves or humans as opposed to an environmental threat. Even though there are serious threats of pharmaceutical pollution resulting in the feminization of certain fish, they have a lower priority because they are not easily understood or experienced by the general public. In Jonathan P. Bound’s opinion, the provision of information about exactly how to go about disposing unused medication properly in conjunction with risk education may have a more positive and forceful effect.\n\nSeveral recommendations and initiatives have been made to prevent pharmaceutical pollution in the environment. Important practices include educating patients on the importance of proper unused drug disposal, educating physicians and patients of proper drug disposal, encouraging pharmaceutical industries to implement strategies for proper disposal of drugs or recycling strategies, and enforcing hospitals to implement better management practices for disposing pharmaceutical waste.\n\nFirst, it is imperative that patients become educated on pharmaceutical pollution and its hazardous effects on humans, animals, and the overall environment. By educating patients on proper disposal of unused drugs, steps are being taken to further prevent pharmaceutical waste in the environment. Consumers should take precautions before tossing out drugs in the trash or flushing them down the toilet. Community take back programs have been set up for consumers to bring back unused drugs for proper disposal. Another initiative is for pharmacies to serve as a take back site for proper drug disposal such as implementing recycling bins for customers to bring back unused or expired medicines while they’re shopping. In addition, educating physicians and patients on the importance of proper drug disposal and the environmental concern will help further reduce pharmaceutical waste.\n\nAlso, implementing initiatives for hospitals to focus on better practices for hazardous waste disposal may prove to be beneficial. The US EPA incentives hospitals to develop efficient pharmaceutical disposal practices by giving them grants. This incentive may be very beneficial to other hospitals worldwide.\n\nAdditionally, “It is critical for us to develop an analytical method of identifying, testing, and regulating the amount of pharmaceuticals in the water systems”. Data must be collected in order to accurately measure the prevalence of pharmaceuticals in drinking water. “Multiple Health risk assessments should be conducted to understand the effects of prolonged exposure to pharmaceuticals in drinking water”.\n\nCommunity based programs should be developed to monitor exposure and health outcomes. We should encourage the pharmaceutical industry to develop technology that extracts pharmaceutical contains form waterways. “Extensive research must be conducted to determine the amount of pharmaceutical contamination in the environment and its effects on animals and marine life”.\n\nWhile the full effects of most PPCPs on the environment are not understood, there is concern about the potential they have for harm because they may act unpredictably when mixed with other chemicals from the environment or concentrate in the food chain. Additionally, some PPCPs are active at very low concentrations, and are often released continuously in large or widespread quantities.\n\nBecause of the high solubility of most PPCPs, aquatic organisms are especially vulnerable to their effects. Researchers have found that a class of antidepressants may be found in frogs and can significantly slow their development. The increased presence of estrogen and other synthetic hormones in waste water due to birth control and hormonal therapies has been linked to increased feminization of exposed fish and other aquatic organisms. The chemicals within these PPCP products could either affect the feminization or masculinization of different fishes, therefore affecting their reproductive rates.\n\nIn addition to being found only in waterways, the ingredients of some PPCPs can also be found in the soil. Since some of these substances take a long time or cannot be degraded biologically, they make their way up the food chain. Information pertaining to the transport and fate of these hormones and their metabolites in dairy waste disposal is still being investigated, yet research suggest that the land application of solid wastes is likely linked with more hormone contamination problems. Not only does the pollution from PPCPs affect marine ecosystems, but also those habitats that depend on this polluted water.\n\nThere are various concerns about the effects of pharmaceuticals found in surface waters and specifically the threats against rainbow trout exposed to treated sewage effluents. Analysis of these pharmaceuticals in the blood plasma of fish compared to human therapeutic plasma levels have yielded vital information providing a means of assessing risk associated with medication waste in water. In a study by Dr. Jerker Fick from Umeå University rainbow trout were exposed to undiluted, treated sewage water at three different sits in Sweden. They were exposed for a total of 14 days while 25 pharmaceuticals were measured in the blood plasma at different levels for analysis. The progestin Levonorgestrel was detected in fish blood plasma at concentrations between 8.5 and 12 ng mL-1 which exceed the human therapeutic plasma level. Studies show that the measured effluent level of Levonorgestrel in the three areas was shown to reduce the fertility of the rainbow trout.\n\nThe three sites chosen for field exposures were in located in Stockholm, Gothenburg, and Umeå. They were chosen according to their varying degrees of treatment technologies, geographic locations, and size. The effluent treatment includes active sludge treatment, nitrogen and phosphorus removal (except in Umeå), primary clarification, and secondary clarification. Juvenile rainbow trout were procured from Antens fiskodling AB, Sweden and Umlax AB, Sweden. The fish were exposed to aerated, undiluted, treated effluent. Since all of the sites underwent sludge treatment, it can be inferred that they are not representative of the low end of treatment efficacy. Of the 21 pharmaceuticals that were detected in the water samples, 18 were identified in the effluent, 17 in the plasma portion, and 14 pharmaceuticals were found in both effluent and plasma.\n\nStarting in the mid-1960s, ecologists and toxicologists began to express concern about the potential adverse effects of pharmaceuticals in the water supply, but it wasn’t until a decade later that the presence of pharmaceuticals in water was well documented. Studies in 1975 and 1977 found clofibric acids and salicylic acids at trace concentrations in treated water. Widespread concern about and research into the effect of PPCPs largely started in the early 1990s. Until this time, PPCPs were largely ignored because of their relative solubility and containment in waterways compared to more familiar pollutants like agrochemicals, industrial chemicals, and industrial waste and byproducts.\n\nSince then, a great deal of attention has been directed to the ecological and physiological risk associated with pharmaceutical compounds and their metabolites in water and the environment. In the last decade, most research in this area has focused on steroid hormones and antibiotics. There is concern that steroid hormones may act as endocrine disruptors. Some research suggests that concentrations of ethinylestradiol, an estrogen used in oral contraceptive medications and one of the most commonly prescribed pharmaceuticals, can cause endocrine disruption in aquatic and amphibian wildlife in concentrations as low as 1 ng/L.\n\nCurrent research on PPCPs aims to answer these questions:\n\n\nPharmacoenvironmentology is an extension of pharmacovigilance as it deals specifically with the environmental and ecological effects of drugs given at therapeutic doses. Pharmacologists with this particular expertise (known as a pharmacoenvironmentologist) become a necessary component of any team assessing different aspects of drug safety in the environment. We must look at the effects of drugs not only in medical practice, but also at its environmental effects. Any good clinical trial should look at the impact of particular drugs on the environment. Things we need to address in pharmacoenvironmentology are drugs and their exact concentration in different parts of the environment.\n\nPharmacoenvironmentology is a specific domain of pharmacology and not of environmental studies.This is because it deals with drugs entering through living organisms through elimination.\n\nPharmacovigilance is a new branch of science, which was born in 1960 after the incidence of the thalidomide disaster. Thalidomide is a teratogen and caused horrific birth abnormalities. The thalidomide disaster lead to the present day approach to drug safety and adverse event reporting.\n\nAccording to the EPA, pharamacovigilance is science aiming to capture any adverse effects of pharmaceuticals in humans after use. However, ecopharmacovigilance is the science, and activities concerning detection, assessment, understanding, and prevention of adverse effects of pharmaceuticals in the environment which affect humans and other animal species. There has been a growing focus among scientists about the impact of drugs on the environment. In recent years, we have been able to see human pharmaceuticals that are being detected in the environment which most are typically found on surface water.\n\nThe importance of ecopharmacovigilance is to monitor adverse effects of pharmaceuticals on humans through environmental exposure. Due to this relatively new field of science, researchers are continuously developing and understanding the impacts of pharmaceuticals in the environment and its risk on human and animal exposure. Environmental risk assessment is a regulatory requirement in the launch of any new drug. This precaution has become a necessary step towards the understanding and prevention of adverse effects of pharmaceutical residue in the environment. It is important to note that pharmaceuticals enter the environment from the excretion of drugs after human use, hospitals, and improper disposal of unused drugs from patients.\n\nEcopharmacology concerns the entry of chemicals or drugs into the environment through any route and at any concentration disturbing the balance of ecology (ecosystem), as a consequence. Ecopharmacology is a broad term that includes studies of “PPCPs” irrespective of doses and route of entry into environment.\n\nThe geology of a karst aquifer area assists with the movement of PPCPs from the surface to the ground water. Relatively soluble bedrock creates sinkholes, caves and sinking streams into which surface water easily flows, with minimal filtering. Since 25% of the population get their drinking water from karst aquifers, this affects a large number of people. A 2016 study of karst aquifers in southwest Illinois found that 89% of water samples had one or more PPCP measured. Triclocarban (an antimicrobial) was the most frequently detected PPCP, with gemfibrozil (a cardiovascular drug) the second most frequently detected. Other PPCPs detected were trimethoprim, naproxen, carbamazepine, caffeine, sulfamethoxazole, and fluoxetine. The data suggests that septic tank effluent is a probable source of PPCPs.\n\nSewage treatment plants (STP) work with physical, chemical, and biological processes to remove nutrients and contaminants from waste water. Usually the STP is equipped with an initial mechanical separation of solid particles (cotton buds, cloth, hygiene articles etc.) appearing in the incoming water. Following this there may be filters separating finer particles either occurring in the incoming water or developing as a consequence of chemical treatment of the water with flocculating agents.\n\nMany STPs also include one or several steps of biological treatment. By stimulating the activity of various strains of microorganisms physically their activity may be promoted to degrade the organic content of the sewage by up to 90% or more. In certain cases more advanced techniques are used as well. The today most commonly used advanced treatment steps especially in terms of micropollutants are\n\n\nPPCPs are difficult to remove from wastewater with conventional methods. Some research shows the concentration of such substances is even higher in water leaving the plant than water entering the plant. Many factors including environmental pH, seasonal variation, and biological properties affect the ability of a STP to remove PPCPs.\n\nA 2013 study of a drinking water treatment plant, found that of 30 PPCPs measured at both the source water and the drinking water locations, 76% of PPCPs were removed, on average, in the water treatment plant. Ozonation was found to be an efficient treatment process for the removal of many PPCPs. However, there are some PPCPs that were not removed, such as DEET used as mosquito spray, nonylphenol which is a surfactant used in detergents, the antibiotic erythromycin, and the herbicide atrazine.\n\nSeveral research projects are running to optimize the use of advanced sewage treatment techniques under different conditions. The advanced techniques will increase the costs for the sewage treatment substantially.\nIn a European cooperation project between 2008 and 2012 in comparison 4 hospital waste water treatment facilities were developed in Switzerland, Germany, The Netherlands and Luxembourg to investigate the elimination rates of concentrated waste water with pharmaceutical “cocktails” by using different and combined advanced treatment technologies. Especially the German STP at Marienhospital Gelsenkirchen showed the effects of a combination of membranes, ozone, powdered activated carbon and sand filtration. But even a maximum of installed technologies could not eliminate 100% of all substances and especially radiocontrast agents are nearly impossible to eliminate. The investigations showed that depending on the installed technologies the treatment costs for such a hospital treatment facility may be up to 5.50 € per m. Other studies and comparisons expect the treatment costs to increase up to 10%, mainly due to energy demand. It is therefore important to define best available technique before extensive infrastructure investments are introduced on a wide basis.\n\nThe fate of incoming pharmaceutical residues in the STP is unpredictable. Some substances seem to be more or less completely eliminated, while others pass the different steps in the STP unaffected. There is no systematic knowledge at hand to predict how and why this happens.\n\nPharmaceutical residues that have been conjugated (bound to a bile acid) before being excreted from the patients may undergo de-conjugation in the STP, yielding higher levels of free pharmaceutical substance in the outlet from the STP than in its incoming water. Some pharmaceuticals with large sales volumes have not been detected in the incoming water to the STP, indicating that complete metabolism and degradation must have occurred already in the patient or during the transport of sewage from the household to the STP.\n\nIn the United States, “There are no federal regulations limiting the levels of pharmaceuticals in wastewater or drinking water”, according to EPA. Three birth controls substances and one antibiotic were added to the pharmaceuticals contaminant candidate list (CCL 3). EPA states that they are 8 pharmaceuticals that are classified as hazardous waste. Out of 3000 pharmaceuticals EPA has only evaluated 100 of them leaving numerous of unscreened compounds in the water.” In 2008, EPA proposed an amendment to the Universal Waste Rule to address pharmaceutical wastes.” However, no action on the Rule has occurred since the hearing in the U.S. senate in 2009”.\n\nThe Clean Water Act (CWA), Safe Drinking Water Act (SDWA), and the Universal Waste Regulations under the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA) do little to protect the American population from pharmaceutical contamination in waterways. The EPA has the ability to implement governmental regulations to insure that the public has access to water that is free of pharmaceutical pollution however, no laws have been enacted even though “ the U.S. Government Accountability Office (GAO) reports that some research has demonstrated potential impact on human health from exposure to pharmaceuticals found in drinking water, such as antibiotics and EE2 substances that interfere with human hormone development”.\n\nThe EPA and other governmental agencies are not focused on this issue. They are not demanding any changes or regulations for Pharmaceutical pollution. They did not review the 3000 Pharmaceutical substances to determine their effect on human health. There are no long term studies or health assessments created to examine how this affects us or the environment.\n\nPPCPs are emerging pollutants, which pose potential risks on the environment and health. They are the result of many sectors, such as household consumption, industrial, farming, medicine, and aquaculture. However, because of the toxic and intractable characteristics, these pollutants cannot be removed by a traditional wastewater treatment plant in an effective way. Hence, they are becoming more and more universal. The fact that conventional wastewater treatment processes could not eradicate PPCPs completely has been highlighted. In final effluents, high concentrations of PPCPs can be detected, and these contaminants can accumulate in rivers, sludge, soil, and biosolids. A study pointed out that organic pollutants, including PPCPs, appeared in 80% of 139 U.S. streams from 1999 to 2000. As such, environmental pollution caused by PPCPs are becoming more and more serious. Therefore, the removal of PPCPs is an urgent topic in the treatment of wastewater. Up to now, the methods used for the removal of PPCPs can be roughly divided into three categories, including physical, chemical, and biological methods.\n\nThe most common physical process is adsorption. It is usually used to remove traceable organic pollutants in water. Generally, carbon-based materials, which include biochar, activated carbon, graphene and graphene oxide, and carbon nanotubes, are applied to absorb PPCPs from aqueous solution. Different materials have a different adsorption capacity for PPCPs. As for these materials, carbon nanotubes have the highest adsorption capacity, while the adsorption capacity adjusted with the surface chemistry and properties of carbon nanotubes. By comparison, activated carbon as a traditional adsorbent has a wide application in adsorption of PPCPs from wastewater. Although physical adsorption processes are regarded as an advanced technology, and developing fast in the field of treatment methods, there are still some problems that should be addressed in future research, like the production of carbon nanotubes, the high cost of graphene, and the absorption of macromolecular substances. \n\nMicrobial degradation is regarded as an essential method for the removal of organic pollutants. The processes have numerous advantages, like economical input costs, and mild operational conditions. In these processes, microorganisms can make use of their metabolic functions to degrade the contaminants and in some cases several microbes cooperate with each other to achieve this goal. Pure cultures, mixed cultures, and activated sludge processes can be used in these processes, while an activated sludge process is widely used as a biological treatment in the conventional wastewater treatment plants. Constructed wetlands show great promise and are discussed below.\n\nAdvanced chemical oxidation processes are effective in removing PPCPs from wastewater. These include ozonation, Fenton oxidation, ionizing radiation, and UV treatment, are efficient in the degradation of recalcitrant organic pollutants in aqueous solution. Among these, ozonation is the most widely used oxidation method for the removal of PPCPs. \n\nBecause some PPCPs are highly resistant and toxic to microorganisms, it can be difficult for biological methods to eliminate them on their own. On the other hand, advanced chemical oxidation processes behave well in removing persistent pollutants, but the intermediates produced during the treatment process are sometimes more resistant to oxidation. Thus, if using one of these two methods to treat pollutants, the process requires long times and high energy inputs, resulting in a high cost. In order to overcome the shortfalls of using a single method, combinations of biological and chemical processes have increasingly been applied in recent years. In the first stage, advanced chemical oxidation processes are used for pre-treatment to transform persistent pollutants into the biodegradable intermediates. Then, biological methods are applied to degrade them. Combined systems are being shown to be efficient and cost effective. \n\n80% of pills in the world are packed with blister packaging, which is the most convenient type for several reasons. Blister packs have two main components, the “lid” and the “blister” (cavity). Lid is mainly manufactured with aluminum (Al) and paper. The Cavity consists of polyvinyl chloride (PVC), polypropylene (PP), polyester (PET) or aluminum (Al). If users employ proper disposal methods, all these materials can be recycled and the harmful effects to the environment can be minimized. However, a problem arises with the improper disposal either by burning or disposing as normal household waste.\n\nBurning of blister packs directly causes air pollution by the combustion products of polypropylene ([CH]), polyester ([CHO]), and polyvinyl chloride ([CHCHCl]). The combustion reactions and products of these chemicals are mentioned below.\n\n[CH] + 9n/2 O → 3n CO +3n HO\n\n[CHO] + 10n O → 10n CO +4n HO\n\n[CHCHCl] + 2n O → n CO + n HO + n HCl + n CO\n\nEven though polypropylene and polyester is harmful to the environment, the most toxic effect is due to the combustion of polyvinyl chloride since it produces hydrochloric acid (HCl) which is an irritant in the lower and upper respiratory tract that can cause adverse to human beings.\n\nThe disposal of blister packs as normal waste, will forbid recycling process and eventually accumulate in soil or water, which will result soil and water pollution since bio-degradation processes of compounds like PVC, PP and PET are very slow. As a result, ecologically damaging effects like disturbances of the habitats and movements can be seen. Ingestion by the animals, affect the secretion of gastric enzymes and steroid hormones that can decrease the feeding stimuli and may also cause problems in reproduction. At low pH, aluminum can increase its solubility according to the following equation. As a result, the negative effects of both aquatic and terrestrial ecosystems can be generated.\n\n2Al+ 6H → 2Al + 3H \n\nBy employing proper disposal methods, all manufacturing materials of blister packs like PP, PE, PVC and Al can be recycled and the adverse effects to the environment can be minimized. Even though, the synthesis of these polymers relatively simple, the recycling process can be very complex since the blister packs contain metals and polymers together.\n\nAs the first step of recycling, separation of Al and Polymers using the hydrometallurgical method which uses hydrochloric acid (HCl) can be incorporated. Then PVC can be recycled by using mechanical or chemical methods. The most recent trend is to use biodegradable, eco-friendly “bio plastics” which are also called as biopolymers such as derivatives of starch, cellulose, protein, chitin and xylan for pharmaceutical packaging, to reduce the hostile effects to the environment.\n\nNail polish remover has the ability to enter bodies of water and soil after entering landfills or by precipitation, such as rain or snow. However, due to acetone's high volatility, most of it that enters the bodies of water and soil will evaporate again and re-enter the atmosphere. Not all of the acetone molecules will evaporate again, and so, when acetone remains in the bodies of water or soil, a reaction will occur. Nail polish remover evaporates easily because acetone's intermolecular forces are weak. An acetone molecule can't attract other acetone molecules easily because its hydrogens are not slightly positive. The only force that holds acetone molecules together is its permanent dipoles which are weaker than hydrogen bonds.\n\nSince nail polish remover is a solvent, it will dissolve in water. When acetone dissolves in water, it hydrogen bonds with water. The more nail polish remover that enters the hydrosphere will increase the concentration of acetone and then increase the concentration of the solution created when acetone and water bonds. If enough nail polish remover is disposed, it can reach the lethal dose level for aquatic life.\n\nNail polish remover can also enter the lithosphere by landfills and by precipitation. However, it will not bind to the soil. Microorganisms in the soil will decompose acetone. The consequence of microorganisms decomposing acetone is the risk it has to cause oxygen depletion in bodies of water. The more acetone readily available for microorganism decomposition leads to more microorganisms reproduced and thus oxygen depletion because more microorganisms use up the available oxygen.\n\nWhen nail polish remover evaporates, acetone enters the atmosphere in the gaseous phase. In the gaseous phase, acetone can undergo photolysis and breakdown into carbon monoxide, methane, and ethane. When temperatures are between 100 - 350 degrees Celsius, the following mechanism occurs:\n\n(CH)2CO + hv → CH + CHCO\n\nCHCO → CH+ CO\n\nCH+ (CH)2CO → CH4 + CH2COCH\n\n2CH → C2H6\n\nA second pathway that nail polish remover can enter in the atmosphere is reacting with hydroxyl radicals. When acetone reacts with hydroxyl radicals, its main product is methylglyoxal. Methylglyoxal is an organic compound that is a by-product of many metabolic pathways. It is an intermediate precursor for many advanced glycation end-products, that are formed for diseases such as diabetes or neurodegenerative diseases. The following reaction occurs:\n\n(CH)2CO + ·OH → CHC(O)OH + ·CH\n\nCHC(O)OH + ·CH→ CHC(O)COH + 3H+\n\nIt is well known that releasing antibiotics into the water can lead to antibiotic resistance. In the recent decade, the Pearl River has been altered by antibiotics. A study found that concentrations of antibiotics were lower than those in the estuary, and decreased from the east side to the west side. A series of phenomena showed that the primary sources of antibiotics came from river tributaries and terrigenous sources and there were frequent human activities and hydraulic conditions along the west banks of the river. Seasonal variations happened in most of the detected antibiotics in water as well. Additionally, the TOC content of sediments, and the pH of water affected the performance of antibiotics. The highest concentrations of antibiotics were found downstream of Guangdong Province, which was affected severely by nearby densely populated megacities, like Shenzhen, Hong Kong, and Macau. These have an adverse impact on people there. \n\nThe coast of Guangdong is a place polluted by another representative contaminant, plastic debris. After an extended period of observation, scientists found that the beach was a place that would help the fragmentation of plastic debrisinto highly fragmented plastic particles that can attach to small organisms. Through the process of washback, the plastic debris may be transported into the water, and make an adverse impact on a wide range of marine life at different trophic levels. It is noticeable that polystyrene (PS) foams and fragments, and microplastics account for a great percentage of plastic debris on the beach. Most of the polystyrenes degrade within a year on average, and could not be observed in deep beach sediment. Thus, coastal beaches store highly fragmented and degraded micro-plastics. However, they may be active and return to the water.\n\nIn recent years, scientists have been trying to find a way to handle PPCPs, but most of the advanced treatment processes are too expensive to apply in large scale. As such, a low-cost alternative approach for PPCPs treatment is of great significance for the environment. Based on this purpose, increasing concerns have been raised on constructed wetlands, which are cheaper in construction, operation, maintenance and monitoring. Actually, constructed wetlands have been proved to be effective for removal of conventional contaminants in wastewater treatment. However, applying constructed wetlands to deal with these issues is a totally new application in the field. \n\nBased on several researches and further analysis for various constructed wetlands, scientists found that gravel is the most common substrate materials for the removal of PPCPs in constructed wetlands. The gravel substrate is efficient for some certain PPCPs which are difficult to be biodegraded but with relatively high hydrophobicity. On the other hand, according to a set of experiments , it is reported that light expanded clay aggregate as a sorbent in constructed wetlands performs well for the treatment of the acidic compounds and alkaline with positive charge.\n\nVegetation plays an important part in directly taking up several organic pollutants from wastewater in constructed wetlands. With the function of diffusion, the organic pollutants like PPCPs can be transported within plants. That means, theses pollutants cannot move into the plant tissues through the plant roots and some specific transporters. Generally, the physico-chemical characteristics of PPCPs, such as hydrophobicity, water solubility, and concentration, affect the diffusion of the compounds. After being soaked up by plants, the degradation may happen in metabolism processes. Due to the activities of microbial populations, there are numerous biological processes occurring in the rhizosphere. However, the toxicity of PPCPs to plants is a nonnegligible issue.\n\nThe processes of transformation and mineralization of nutrients and organic pollutants are primarily dependent on microbes in constructed wetlands, and the microbial degradation processes can occur in both the aerobic and the anaerobic environments with the participation of diverse microorganisms, like fungi, specific protozoa, heterotrophic bacteria, and autotrophic bacteria. The chemical structures of organic pollutants strongly affect the degradation processes. Some contaminations with simple structures owning high water solubility and low absorptivity, so degradation via microorganisms will be easier. However, for PPCPs, which are xenobiotic organic pollutants with totally different compounds, they are degraded relatively slowly. Even though there are non-specific enzymes, the rate of degradation is still slower.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9160388", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9160388", "title": "Fut language", "text": "Fut language\n\nThe Bafut language, Fut, is an Eastern Grassfields language of the Niger–Congo languages, and related to Bamum. Oral tradition traces dynastic origins to the Ndobo or Tikari areas. It is spoken by people of Bafut Subdivision, Tuba, in the division of Mezam and in the division of Metchum in Northwest Province, Cameroon.\n\nThe Bafut language was alphabetized by SIL International worker Joseph Mfonyam in 1982. Since then, some literature has been translated into Bafut, most notably the New Testament in 2000.\n\n"}
{"id": "2723155", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2723155", "title": "Guatuso people", "text": "Guatuso people\n\nThe Guatuso are a tribe of American Indians of Costa Rica. Their language may also be known as Maleku, which is spoken in the north-central part of the country, and is a Chibchan language.\n\nThe 1911 Encyclopædia Britannica describes them as an active, hardy people, who have always maintained hostility towards the Spaniards and retain their independence, and their language indicates that they are a distinct stock. They were described by old writers as being very fair, with flaxen hair, and these reports led to a belief, since exploded, that they were European hybrids.\n\nAs of 1911, there were very few surviving.\n"}
{"id": "1185379", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1185379", "title": "Halfway house", "text": "Halfway house\n\nA halfway house is an institution that allows people with physical, mental, and emotional disabilities, or those with criminal backgrounds, to learn (or relearn) the necessary skills to re-integrate into society and better support and care for themselves. \n\nAs well as serving as a residence, halfway houses provide social, medical, psychiatric, educational, and other similar services. They are termed \"halfway houses\" due to their being halfway between completely independent living on the one hand, and in-patient or correctional facilities on the other hand where residents are highly restricted in their behavior and freedoms. \n\nHalfway houses in the US generally fall into one of two models. In one model upon admission, a patient is classified as to the type of disability, ability to reintegrate into society, and expected time frame for doing so. They may be placed into an open bay same-sex dormitory similar to that found in military basic training with fifty or a hundred similar residents in a gymnasium-type setting all going through the same thing at the same time. As the patients become able to increase their skill level and decrease their dependency on support services, the dorm members become fewer to the point where, at the final stage before being able to get their own apartment, the patient may have only one or two roommates.\n\nAnother model reverses this. New patients are admitted in individual rooms providing one-to-one services and programming. As they become more independent, the dorms become bigger so that by the time the patient leaves, they are living in the 50-to 100-person dorm described above.\n\nThe same two models are used for convicted criminals to begin the process of reintegration with society, while still providing monitoring and support; this is generally believed to reduce the risk of recidivism or relapse when compared to a release directly into society. Halfway houses are meant for reintegration of persons who have been recently released from prison or a mental institution.\n\nThere are several different types of halfway houses. Some are state sponsored, while others (mainly addiction recovery homes and mental illness homes) are run by \"for profit\" entities. In criminology the purpose of a halfway house is generally considered to be that of allowing people to begin the process of reintegration with society, while still providing monitoring and support. This type of living arrangement is often believed to reduce the risk of recidivism or relapse when compared to a straight release directly into society.\n\nSome halfway houses are meant solely for reintegration of persons who have been recently released from prison or jail, others are meant for people with chronic mental health disorders, and others are for people with substance abuse issues, generally called sober living houses. The state-placement of ex-criminal offenders to a \"halfway house\" after a prison sentence may either be decided upon as part of the judge's sentence or by a prison official's recommendation. A direct sentence to a halfway house can be decided upon by a judge or prosecutor in lieu of prison time.\n\nThe majority of programs in the United States make a distinction between a halfway house and a sober/recovery house. A halfway house has an active rehabilitation treatment program run throughout the day, where the residents receive intensive individual and group counseling for their substance abuse while they establish a sober support network, secure new employment, and find new housing. Residents stay for one to six months.\n\nResidents of work release housing are frequently required to pay rent on a \"sliding scale\" which is often dependent on whether or not they can find a job while in residence. In addiction-recovery houses, a resident's stay is sometimes financed by health insurance. In addition, a stay in a recovery house might be a partial requirement of a criminal sentence. Residents are normally asked to remain sober and comply with a recovery program.\n\nIn certain areas, a halfway house is much different from a recovery house or sober house. In these areas, a drug and alcohol halfway house is licensed by the Department of Health and has staff coverage 24 hours a day. This staff includes a clinical treatment team.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, \"halfway house\" usually refers to a place where people with mental disorders, victims of child abuse, orphans, or teenage runaways can stay. The latter are often run by charities, including the Church of England, other churches, and community groups. Residential places for offenders on bail are known as bail hostels, and probation-supervised accommodation for offenders post-release are known as Approved Premises. However, the expression \"halfway house\" more usually refers to something combining features of two other things, for example a solution to a problem based on two ideas.\n\nIn Canada, halfway houses are often called \"Community-Based Residential Facilities\". The Correctional Service of Canada definition of a halfway house is similar to the general American definition of one.\n\nWith regard to programming integrity, findings regarding the ability of transitional housing to reduce recidivism or help addiction recovery have been mixed. Many criminologists have done research of halfway house facilities that provide housing for low risk criminals after institutionalization. Risk screening for residents is considered essential in order to preserve both institutional and community safety.\n\nThere is often opposition from neighborhoods in which halfway houses attempt to locate. Social justice literature observes the relationships between halfway house siting and the NIMBY (Not In My Back Yard) phenomena. Some communities/neighborhoods may have the ability to affect political legislation through political solidarity while others may not. Some research stresses that community residents simply feel nervous when halfway houses are sited near them. Others point out that the presence of transitional residences may pose real hazards to community safety. In NIMBY research, it has been suggested that a neighborhood's resistance to placement might be linked to class-based prejudices about ex-offenders and drug addicts. argue that NIMBY responses are sometimes associated with a distrust for government sponsors.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28342587", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28342587", "title": "Illegal drug trade in Haiti", "text": "Illegal drug trade in Haiti\n\nThe illegal drug trade in Haiti involves trans-shipment of cocaine and marijuana to the United States. It is a major shipment route. The island of Hispaniola, which Haiti shares with the Dominican Republic places Haiti in an ideal location for drug smuggling between Colombia and Puerto Rico. Because Puerto Rico is a Commonwealth of the United States, shipments are generally not subject to further U.S. Customs inspection after reaching the territory. Cocaine is also often smuggled directly to Miami in freighters.\n\nU.S. government agencies estimate that 83 metric tons or about eight percent of the cocaine entering the United States in 2006 transited either Haiti or the Dominican Republic. Throughout the late 1980s and into the 1990s, leading members of the Haitian military, intelligence and police were involved in the illegal drug trade in Haiti, assisting Colombian drug traffickers smuggling drugs into the United States. Corruption in Haiti remains extremely high, and suspicions of continued drug-related corruption remain.\n\nAccording to Haitian security expert Michel Laguerre, Haiti became internationally significant in cocaine trafficking in 1985. According to 1994 testimony to the U.S. Senate by Gabriel Taboada of the Colombian Medellin cartel, a deal had been sealed with Michel François, commander of the Haitian police, in a 1984 visit to Medellin by François. François and other military commanders were said to have protected 70,000 pounds of cocaine shipments in 1999.\n\nFrançois was said to have had a landing strip for cocaine shipments built on the property of Col. Jean-Claude Paul, and been paid between $1m and $4m. Taboada also identified General Prosper Avril as involved. Other Colombian traffickers (Enrique Arroyave and Carlos Marcantoni) identified François and General Raoul Cédras as among a group of Haitian military attending a 1987 party in Colombia held to celebrate the Colombia-Haiti drug connection's shipment of 66,000 pounds of cocaine.\n\nAfter the 1986 overthrow of Jean-Claude Duvalier the U.S. Central Intelligence Agency created the Service d'Intelligence National (SIN), a Haitian intelligence agency. The unit, staffed by officers of the Haitian army, \"engaged in drug trafficking and political violence\". The CIA provided half a million to a million dollars per year to train SIN in counter-narcotics, but the group produced no intelligence and instead used their training against political opponents.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33400550", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33400550", "title": "Island Carib language", "text": "Island Carib language\n\nIsland Carib, also known as Igneri (Iñeri, Inyeri, etc.), was an Arawakan language historically spoken by the Island Caribs of the Lesser Antilles in the Caribbean. Island Carib proper became extinct about 1920, but an offshoot survives as Garifuna, primarily in Central America.\n\nDespite its name, Island Carib was not closely related to the Carib language of the mainland Caribs. Instead, it appears to have been a development of the Arawakan language spoken by the islands' earlier Igneri inhabitants, which incoming Caribs adopted in the pre-Columbian era. During the French colonial period, Carib men also spoke a Cariban-derived pidgin amongst themselves.\n\nAt the time of European contact, the Island Caribs lived throughout the Windward Islands of the Lesser Antilles, from Guadeloupe to Grenada. Contemporary traditions indicated the Caribs (or Kaliphuna) had conquered these islands from their previous inhabitants, the Igneri. Because the Island Caribs were thought to have descended from the mainland Caribs (Kalina) of South America, it was long assumed that they spoke Carib or a related Cariban language. However, studies in the 20th century determined that the language of the Antillean Caribs was not Cariban, but Arawakan, related Lokono and more distantly to the Taíno language of the Greater Antilles.\n\nModern scholars have proposed several hypotheses accounting for the prevalence of an Arawak language among the Island Caribs. Scholars such as Irving Rouse suggested that Caribs from South America conquered the Igneri but did not displace them, and took on their language over time. Others doubt there was an invasion at all. Sued Badillo proposed that Igneri living in the Lesser Antilles adopted the \"Carib\" identity due to their close economic and political ties with the rising mainland Carib polity in the 16th century. In any event, the fact that the Island Caribs' language evidently derived from a pre-existing Arawakan variety has led some linguists to term it \"Igneri\". It appears to have been as distinct from Taíno as from mainland Arawak varieties.\n\nDuring the period of French colonization in the 17th century, and possibly earlier, male Island Caribs used a Cariban-based pidgin in addition to the Arawakan Island Carib language. The pidgin was evidently similar to one used by mainland Caribs to communicate with their Arawak neighbors. Berend J. Hoff and Douglas Taylor hypothesized that it dated to the time of the Carib expansion through the islands, and that males maintained it to emphasize their origins. However, scholars who doubt the existence of a Carib invasion suggest this pidgin was a later development acquired by contact with the Caribs of the mainland.\n\nIsland Carib was extinct by the 1920s, but an offshoot, Garifuna, is still spoken by the Garifuna people living mainly in Central America.\n"}
{"id": "10309115", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10309115", "title": "Jamaican diaspora", "text": "Jamaican diaspora\n\nThe Jamaican diaspora refers to the body of Jamaicans who have left the island of Jamaica, their dispersal and to a lesser extent the subsequent developments of their culture. Jamaicans can be found in the far corners of the world, but the largest pools of Jamaicans, outside of Jamaica itself, exist in the United States, United Kingdom, Canada, other Caribbean islands, and all across the Caribbean Coast of Central America, namely Panama, Costa Rica, Nicaragua, and Honduras.\n\nEarly instances of Jamaican emigration were motivated by employment opportunities abroad. During the economic transition from slavery to wage labor, Indian-Jamaican migration to former slave industries (like sugar production) allowed select Black Jamaicans to find work in more skilled industries and to attain higher social statuses. Jamaicans of various skill levels supplied labor internationally, especially during the two phases of the Panama Canal's construction in the 1880s and 1910s. Job opportunities aimed at Jamaicans in Britain in post-war reconstruction in the 1940s, unemployment during the 1950s, and rising crime following the country's independence in 1962 and slow economic growth also influenced increased Jamaican emigration. Ample immigration opportunities in Canada, the USA and Britain also helped, providing Jamaicans with a thriving community of their kinsmen to join.\n\nOver the past several decades, close to a million Jamaicans have emigrated, especially to the United Kingdom, the United States and Canada. Though this emigration appears to have been tapering off somewhat in recent years, the great number of Jamaicans living abroad has become known as the \"Jamaican diaspora\". Most Jamaican emigrants have followed a path first to the UK. Many who do not remain in the UK move on to other Commonwealth countries such as Canada. Jamaican emigrants also migrate directly to the United States, Canada, other Caribbean nations, Central & South America (mainly in Panama and Colombia), and even Africa (most notably Sierra Leone and Ethiopia). There has also been emigration of Jamaicans to Cuba and to Nicaragua.\n\nThe United Kingdom, and in particular London and Birmingham, have a strong Jamaican diaspora. An estimated 4% of Londoners and 3.5% of Brummies are of wholly or partly Jamaican heritage. Many are now at least second, if not third or fourth-generation Black British Caribbeans. Currently the fastest growing ethnic minority group in Britain is the mixed race category, with the mixed black & white Caribbean category (many of whom are half Jamaicans) being the single largest mixed ethnic minority.\n\nOne of the largest and most famous Jamaican expatriate communities is in Brixton, South London. More large Jamaican communities in London are Tottenham in North London, Hackney in East London, Harlesden in North-West London and both Croydon & Lewisham in South London. The highest concentration of Jamaicans are more precisely in the South London boroughs of Lambeth, Lewisham & Croydon.\n\nOn the last bank holiday of the year during late August the Annual Notting Hill Carnival takes place in west London which is the second biggest street party in the world after Rio Carnival. It spans areas of west London such as Shepherd's Bush, Ladbroke Grove, White City and of course Notting Hill. Many other Caribbean nations have large communities in this part of London such as Trinidad and Tobago, Barbados and Antigua. The Caribbean community including many Jamaicans are involved in the Carnival which starts on Saturday and finishes late on Monday. Jamaicans have many food stalls, soundsystems and floats involved in the procession. Well over a million Londoners come to Notting Hill on the Monday. There is also a much smaller carnival called the Tottenham Carnival which takes place in Tottenham during June, approximately 40,000 people attend.\nOther Jamaican communities include the areas of St Pauls in Bristol, Chapeltown in Leeds, Moss Side, Longsight and Hulme in Manchester, Toxteth in Liverpool, Burngreave in Sheffield, Handsworth, Ladywood, Lozells, and Aston in Birmingham, and St Ann's, Top Valley, and Basford in Nottingham.\n\nThroughout the 1920s, Jamaican-U.S. migration was circular, with Jamaicans returning to home after working abroad. Immigration restrictions from the Immigration and Nationality Act of 1952 possibly influenced increases in Jamaican migrants over-staying contract limits. Jamaican-U.S. emigration increased dramatically during the 1960s, primarily of skilled Jamaican nurses. Possible factors behind this increase include high U.S. labor demand for nurses and medical workers during the 1960s, a shift in emigrant destinations after restrictions from Great Britain's Commonwealth Immigrants Act 1962, and the U.S. Immigration and Nationality Act of 1965 favoring higher skilled Jamaicans and other West Indians.\n\nConcentrations of expatriate Jamaicans are large in a number of cities in the United States, including New York City, Buffalo, Miami, Atlanta, Orlando, Tampa, Baltimore, Washington, D.C., Houston, Philadelphia, Hartford, Providence, Boston and Los Angeles. Westchester County, New York and nearby Stamford, Connecticut also have significant Jamaican ex-pat communities.\n\nNew York City is home to a large Jamaican diaspora community. The Brooklyn communities are centred along Flatbush, Nostrand and Utica Avenues in the neighborhoods of Prospect Heights, Lefferts Gardens, Flatbush, East Flatbush, Crown Heights, Canarsie, and Flatlands. Flatbush, Nostrand, and Utica Avenues feature miles of Jamaican cuisine, food markets and other businesses, nightlife and residential enclaves. The Bronx neighborhoods are Wakefield, Eastchester, Baychester. The borough of Queens also has a Jamaican diaspora presence.\n\nIn Toronto, the Jamaican community is also large, with a metropolitan population of approximately 200,330 (3.4%). Jamaican populated areas of the city are located in the neighbourhoods of Rexdale in Etobicoke; Jane and Finch, Downsview and Lawrence Heights in North York; Malvern and West Hill in Scarborough; Regent Park, Alexandra Park, and Parkdale in Old Toronto; and Weston, Mount Dennis, Silverthorn, and Oakwood–Vaughan in York, which also includes a Little Jamaica district that is identifiable along Eglinton Avenue West. In recent years, many Jamaicans have been moving out to suburbs such as Mississauga, Brampton and Ajax. The Jamaican community has had an influence on Toronto's culture. Caribana (the celebration of Caribbean culture) is an annual event in the city. The parade is held downtown on the first Saturday of August, shutting down a portion of Lake Shore Boulevard. Jamaica Day is in July, and the Jesus in the City parade attracts many Jamaican Christians. Reggae and dancehall are popular among Toronto's youth, of various ethnic backgrounds.\n\nOutside the Greater Toronto Area, cities such as Montreal, Ottawa, and Hamilton also have sizable Jamaican communities.\n\nMore recently many resort- and wild-life-management-skilled Jamaicans have been trending emigration toward such far-flung nations as Australia, New Zealand (Especially in Wellington and, to a lesser extent, Auckland) the Philippines, Japan, Malaysia and Indonesia. The nation continues to have a severe problem with barrel children—those left on their own by parents seeking a better life abroad.\n\nAround 800,000 Britons of Jamaican origin. Located especially in London, Birmingham, Luton, Nottingham, Liverpool, Manchester, Sheffield and Slough.\n\nAround 740,000, especially in New York City (416,000), Connecticut, Rhode Island, Massachusetts, South Florida and elsewhere.\n\nLegal immigration statistics:\n<br>1986–1990: 113,245\n<br>1991–1995: 90,731\n<br>1996–2000: 82,682\n<br>2001–2005: 76,280\n<br>2006–2010: 104,436\n<br>Total 1986–2010: 467,374\n\nAround 309,000, especially in the Toronto metropolitan area (around 200,000), other parts of Southern Ontario, Quebec, and Alberta.\n"}
{"id": "21830166", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21830166", "title": "Joseph H. Rodriguez", "text": "Joseph H. Rodriguez\n\nJoseph Henry Rodriguez (born December 12, 1930) is a Senior United States District Judge of the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey.\n\nBorn in Camden, New Jersey, to Mario, a survivor of the 1918 sinking of the passenger liner SS \"Carolina\", and Carmen Martinez Chapel Rodriguez, Rodriguez received an Artium Baccalaureus degree from La Salle University in 1955 and a Bachelor of Laws from Rutgers School of Law–Camden in 1958. He was in private practice in Camden from 1959 to 1982. He was the Chairman of New Jersey State Board of Higher Education from 1971 to 1973, and of the State Commission of Investigation from 1974 to 1979. He was a public advocate/public defender, for the State of New Jersey from 1982 to 1985.\n\nOn February 28, 1985, Rodriguez was nominated by President Ronald Reagan to a new seat on the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey created by 98 Stat. 333. He was confirmed by the United States Senate on May 3, 1985, and received his commission on May 10, 1985. He assumed senior status on May 22, 1998. In 2007, Rodriguez wrote for a unanimous panel of the United States Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit when it held that challengers had no standing to bring claims of racially exclusionary zoning.\n"}
{"id": "26653683", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26653683", "title": "Kiral", "text": "Kiral\n\nThe Kiral are a very small Durrani Pashtun tribe located in Maruf district, Kandahar province. Affiliation with larger tribe or tribal confederation is unknown.\n\n"}
{"id": "275047", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=275047", "title": "Languages of India", "text": "Languages of India\n\nLanguages spoken in India belong to several language families, the major ones being the Indo-Aryan languages spoken by 78.05% of Indians and the Dravidian languages spoken by 19.64% of Indians. Languages spoken by the remaining 2.31% of the population belong to the Austroasiatic, Sino-Tibetan, Tai-Kadai, and a few other minor language families and isolates. India (780) has the world's second highest number of languages, after Papua New Guinea (839).\n\nArticle 343 of the Indian constitution stated that the official language of the Union should become Hindi in Devanagari script instead of the extant English. But this was thought to be a violation of the constitution's guarantee of federalism. Later, a constitutional amendment, , allowed for the continuation of English in the Indian government indefinitely until legislation decides to change it. The form of numerals to be used for the official purposes of the Union were supposed to be the international form of Indian numerals, distinct from the numerals used in most English-speaking countries. Despite the misconceptions, Hindi is not the national language of India. The Constitution of India does not give any language the status of national language.\n\nThe Eighth Schedule of the Indian Constitution lists 22 languages, which have been referred to as \"scheduled\" languages and given recognition, status and official encouragement. In addition, the Government of India has awarded the distinction of \"classical language\" to Kannada, Malayalam, Odia, Sanskrit, Tamil and Telugu. Classical language status is given to languages which have a rich heritage and independent nature.\n\nAccording to the Census of India of 2001, India has 122 major languages and 1599 other languages. However, figures from other sources vary, primarily due to differences in definition of the terms \"language\" and \"dialect\". The 2001 Census recorded 30 languages which were spoken by more than a million native speakers and 122 which were spoken by more than 10,000 people. Two contact languages have played an important role in the history of India: Persian and English. Persian was the court language during the Mughal period in India. It reigned as an administrative language for several centuries until the era of British colonisation. English continues to be an important language in India. It is used in higher education and in some areas of the Indian government. Hindi, the most commonly spoken language in India today, serves as the \"lingua franca\" across much of North and Central India. However, there have been anti-Hindi agitations in South India, most notably in the state of Tamil Nadu and Karnataka. Maharashtra, West Bengal, Assam, Punjab and other non-Hindi regions have also started to voice concerns about Hindi.\n\nThe southern Indian languages are from the Dravidian family. The Dravidian languages are indigenous to the Indian subcontinent. Proto-Dravidian languages were spoken in India in the 4th millennium BCE and started disintegrating into various branches around 3rd millennium BCE. The Dravidian languages are classified in four groups: North, Central (Kolami–Parji), South-Central (Telugu–Kui) and South Dravidian (Tamil-Kannada).\n\nThe northern Indian languages from the Indo-Aryan branch of the Indo-European family evolved from Old Indic by way of the Middle Indic Prakrit languages and Apabhraṃśa of the Middle Ages. The Indo-Aryan languages developed and emerged in three stages — Old Indo-Aryan (1500 BCE to 600 BCE), Middle Indo-Aryan stage (600 BCE and 1000 CE) and New Indo-Aryan (between 1000 CE and 1300 CE). The modern north Indian Indo-Aryan languages all evolved into distinct, recognisable languages in the New Indo-Aryan Age.\n\nPersian or \"Farsi\" was brought into India by the Ghaznavids and other Turko-Afghan dynasties as the court language. Culturally Persianized, they, in combination with the later Mughal dynasty (of Turco-Mongol origin), influenced the art, history and literature of the region for more than 500 years, resulting in the Persianisation of many Indian tongues, mainly lexically. In 1837, the British replaced Persian with English and Hindustani in Perso-Arabic script for administrative purposes, and the Hindi movement of the 19th Century replaced Persianised vocabulary with Sanskrit derivations and replaced or supplemented the use of Perso-Arabic script for administrative purposes with Devanagari.\n\nEach of the northern Indian languages had different influences. For example, Hindustani was strongly influenced by Sanskrit, Persian, and Arabic, leading to the emergence of Modern Standard Hindi and Modern Standard Urdu as registers of the Hindustani language.\n\nThe first official survey of language diversity in the Indian subcontinent was carried out by Sir George Abraham Grierson from 1898 to 1928. Titled the Linguistic Survey of India, it reported a total of 179 languages and 544 dialects. However, the results were skewed due to ambiguities in distinguishing between \"dialect\" and \"language\", use of untrained personnel and under-reporting of data from South India, as the former provinces of Burma and Madras, as well as the princely states of Cochin, Hyderabad, Mysore and Travancore were not included in the survey.\n\nDifferent sources give widely differing figures, primarily based on how the terms \"language\" and \"dialect\" are defined and grouped. \"Ethnologue\", produced by the Christian evangelist organisation SIL International, lists 461 tongues for India (out of 6,912 worldwide), 447 of which are living, while 14 are extinct. The 447 living languages are further subclassified in \"Ethnologue\" as follows:-\n\nThe People’s Linguistic Survey of India, a privately owned research institution in India, has recorded over 66 different scripts and more than 780 languages in India during its nationwide survey, which the organisation claims to be the biggest linguistic survey in India.\n\nThe People of India (POI) project of Anthropological Survey of India reported 325 languages which are used for in-group communication by 5,633 Indian communities.\n\nThe Census of India records and publishes data with respect to the number of speakers for languages and dialects, but uses its own unique terminology, distinguishing between \"language\" and \"mother tongue\". The mother tongues are grouped within each language. Many of the mother tongues so defined could be considered a language rather than a dialect by linguistic standards. This is especially so for many mother tongues with tens of millions of speakers that are officially grouped under the language Hindi.\n\nSeparate figures for Hindi, Urdu, and Punjabi were not issued, due to the fact the returns were intentionally recorded incorrectly in states such as East Punjab, Himachal Pradesh, Delhi, PEPSU, and Bilaspur.\n\nThe 1961 census recognised 1,652 mother tongues spoken by 438,936,918 people, counting all declarations made by any individual at the time when the census was conducted. However, the declaring individuals often mixed names of languages with those of dialects, subdialects and dialect clusters or even castes, professions, religions, localities, regions, countries and nationalities. The list therefore includes languages with barely a few individual speakers as well as 530 unclassified mother tongues and more than 100 idioms that are non-native to India, including linguistically unspecific demonyms such as \"African\", \"Canadian\" or \"Belgian\".\n\nThe 1991 census recognises 1,576 classified mother tongues. According to the 1991 census, 22 languages had more than a million native speakers, 50 had more than 100,000 and 114 had more than 10,000 native speakers. The remaining accounted for a total of 566,000 native speakers (out of a total of 838 million Indians in 1991).\n\nAccording to the most recent census of 2001, there are 1635 rationalised mother tongues, 234 identifiable mother tongues and 22 major languages. Of these, 29 languages have more than a million native speakers, 60 have more than 100,000 and 122 have more than 10,000 native speakers. There are a few languages like Kodava that do not have a script but have a group of native speakers in Coorg (Kodagu).\n\n\nThe language-related data results of the 2011 Census have not yet been released by the Government of India.\n\nEthnolinguistically, the languages of South Asia, echoing the complex history and geography of the region, form a complex patchwork of language families, language phyla and isolates. The languages of India belong to several language families, the most important of which are :\n\nThe largest of the language families represented in India, in terms of speakers, is the Indo-Aryan language family, a branch of the Indo-Iranian family, itself the easternmost, extant subfamily of the Indo-European language family.\nThis language family predominates, accounting for some 1035 million speakers, or over 76.5 of the population, as per 2018 estimate. \nThe most widely spoken languages of this group are Hindi (or more correctly, Hindustani, which includes Hindi and Urdu), Bengali, Konkani, Marathi, Gujarati, Punjabi, Kashmiri, Rajasthani, Sindhi, Assamese (Asamiya), Maithili and Odia. Aside from the Indo-Aryan languages, other Indo-European languages are also spoken in India, the most prominent of which is English, as a \"lingua franca\".\n\nThe second largest language family is the Dravidian language family, accounting for some 277 million speakers, or approximately 20.5% as per 2018 estimate The Dravidian languages are spoken mainly in southern India and parts of eastern and central India as well as in parts of northeastern Sri Lanka, Pakistan, Nepal and Bangladesh. The Dravidian languages with the most speakers are Telugu, Tamil, Kannada and Malayalam. Besides the mainstream population, Dravidian languages are also spoken by small scheduled tribe communities, such as the Oraon and Gond tribes. Only two Dravidian languages are exclusively spoken outside India, Brahui in Pakistan and Dhangar, a dialect of Kurukh, in Nepal.\n\nFamilies with smaller numbers of speakers are Austroasiatic and numerous small Sino-Tibetan languages, with some 10 and 6 million speakers, respectively, together 3% of the population.\n\nThe Austroasiatic language family (\"austro\" meaning South) is the autochthonous language in South Asia and Southeast Asia, other language families having arrived by migration. Austroasiatic languages of mainland India are the Khasi and Munda languages, including Santhali. The languages of the Nicobar islands also form part of this language family. With the exceptions of Khasi and Santhali, all Austroasiatic languages on Indian territory are endangered.\n\nThe Sino-Tibetan language family are well represented in India. However, their interrelationships are not discernible, and the family has been described as \"a patch of leaves on the forest floor\" rather than with the conventional metaphor of a \"family tree\".\n\nSino-Tibetan languages are spoken across the Himalayas in the regions of Ladakh, Himachal Pradesh, Nepal, Sikkim, Bhutan, Arunachal Pradesh, and also in the Indian states of West Bengal, Assam (hills and autonomous councils), Meghalaya, Nagaland, Manipur, Tripura and Mizoram. Sino-Tibetan languages spoken in India include the scheduled languages Meitei and Bodo, the non-scheduled languages of Karbi, Lepcha, and many varieties of several related Tibetic, West Himalayish, Tani, Brahmaputran, Angami–Pochuri, Tangkhul, Zeme, Kukish language groups, amongst many others.\n\nAhom language, a Southwestern Tai language, had been once the dominant language of the Ahom Kingdom in modern-day Assam, but was later replaced by the Assamese language (known as Kamrupi in ancient era which is the pre-form of the Kamrupi dialect of today). Nowadays, small Tai communities and their languages remain in Assam and Arunachal Pradesh together with Sino-Tibetans, e.g. Tai Phake, Tai Aiton and Tai Khamti, which are similar to the Shan language of Shan State, Myanmar; the Dai language of Yunnan, China; the Lao language of Laos; the Thai language of Thailand; and the Zhuang language in Guangxi, China.\n\nThe extinct and endangered languages of the Andaman Islands form a fifth Andamanese- , comprising two families, namely:\n\nIn addition, Sentinelese, an unattested language of the Andaman Islands, is generally considered to be related and part of the aerial group.\n\nThe only language found in the Indian mainland that is considered a language isolate is Nihali. The status of Nihali is ambiguous, having been considered as a distinct Austroasiatic language, as a dialect of Korku and also as being a \"thieves' argot\" rather than a legitimate language.\n\nThe other language isolates found in the rest of South Asia include Burushaski, a language spoken in Gilgit–Baltistan (administered by Pakistan), Kusunda (in western Nepal) and Vedda (in Sri Lanka). The validity of the Great Andamanese language group as a language family has been questioned and it has been considered a language isolate by some authorities.\n\nIn addition, a Bantu language, Sidi, was spoken until the mid-20th century in Gujarat.\n\nThe language families in India are not necessarily related to the various ethnic groups in India, specifically the Indo-Aryan and Dravidian people. The languages within each family have been influenced to a large extent by both families.\n\nUrdu has also had a significant influence on many of today's Indian languages. Many North Indian languages have lost much of their Sanskritised base (50% current vocabulary) to a more Urdu-based form. In terms of the written script, most Indian languages, except the Tamil script, nearly perfectly accommodate the Sanskrit language. South Indian languages have adopted new letters to write various Indo-Aryan based words as well, and have added new letters to their native alphabets as the languages began to mix and influence each other.\n\nThough various Indo-Aryan and Dravidian languages may seem mutually exclusive when first heard, there is a much deeper underlying influence that both language families have had on each other down to a linguistic science. There is proof of the intermixing of Dravidian and Indo-Aryan languages through the pockets of Dravidian-based languages on remote areas of Pakistan, and interspersed areas of North India. In addition, there is a whole science regarding the tonal and cultural expression within the languages that are quite standard across India. Languages may have different vocabulary, but various hand and tonal gestures within two unrelated languages can still be common due to cultural amalgamations between invading people and the natives over time; in this case, the Indo-Aryan peoples and the native Dravidian people.\n\nPrior to Independence, in British India, English was the sole language used for administrative purposes as well as for higher education purposes.\n\nIn 1946, the issue of national language was a bitterly contested subject in the proceedings of the Constituent Assembly of India, specifically what should be the language in which the Constitution of India is written and the language spoken during the proceedings of Parliament and thus deserving of the epithet \"national\". Members belonging to the northern parts of India insisted that the Constitution be drafted in Hindi with the unofficial translation in English. This was not agreed to by the drafting Committee on the grounds that English was much better to craft the nuanced prose on constitutional subjects. The efforts to make Hindi the pre-eminent language were bitterly resisted by the members from those parts of India where Hindi was not spoken natively. Eventually, a compromise was reached with Hindi in Devanagari script to be the official language of the union but for \"fifteen years from the commencement of the Constitution, the English Language shall continue to be used for all the official purposes of the Union for which it was being used immediately before such commencement\".\n\nArticle 343 (1) of the Constitution of India states \"The Official Language of the Union government shall be Hindi in Devanagari script.\" Unless Parliament decided otherwise, the use of English for official purposes was to cease 15 years after the constitution came into effect, i.e. on 26 January 1965.\n\nAs the date for changeover approached, however, there was much alarm in the non Hindi-speaking areas of India, especially in Kerala, Gujarat, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Punjab, West Bengal, Karnataka, Puducherry and Andhra Pradesh. Accordingly, Jawaharlal Nehru ensured the enactment of the , which provided that English \"may\" still be used with Hindi for official purposes, even after 1965. The wording of the text proved unfortunate in that while Nehru understood that \"may\" meant shall, politicians championing the cause of Hindi thought it implied exactly the opposite.\n\nIn the event, as 1965 approached, India's new Prime Minister Lal Bahadur Shastri prepared to make Hindi paramount with effect from 26 January 1965. This led to widespread agitation, riots, self-immolations and suicides in Tamil Nadu. The split of Congress politicians from the South from their party stance, the resignation of two Union ministers from the South and the increasing threat to the country's unity forced Shastri to concede.\n\nAs a result, the proposal was dropped, and the Act itself was amended in 1967 to provide that the use of English would not be ended until a resolution to that effect was passed by the legislature of every state that had not adopted Hindi as its official language, and by each house of the Indian Parliament.\n\nThe Constitution of India does not give any language the status of national language.\n\nHindi, written in Devanagari script, is the most prominent language spoken in the country. In the 2001 census, 422 million (422,048,642) people in India reported Hindi to be their native language. This figure not only included Hindi speakers of Hindustani, but also people who identify as native speakers of related languages who consider their speech to be a dialect of Hindi, the Hindi belt. Hindi (or Hindustani) is the native language of most people living in Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Chhattisgarh, Himachal Pradesh, Chandigarh, Bihar, Jharkhand, Madhya Pradesh, Haryana, and Rajasthan.\n\n\"Modern Standard Hindi\", a standardised language is the official language of the Union of India. In addition, it is one of only two languages used for business in Parliament however the Rajya Sabha now allows all 22 official languages on the Eighth Schedule to be spoken.\n\nHindustani, evolved from \"khari boli\" (खड़ी बोली), a prominent tongue of Mughal times, which itself evolved from Apabhraṃśa, an intermediary transition stage from Prakrit, from which the major North Indian Indo-Aryan languages have evolved.\n\nVarieties of Hindi spoken in India include Rajasthani, Braj Bhasha, Haryanvi, Bundeli, Kannauji, Hindustani, Awadhi, Bagheli, Bhojpuri, Magahi, Nagpuri and Chhattisgarhi. By virtue of its being a \"lingua franca\", Hindi has also developed regional dialects such as Bambaiya Hindi in Mumbai. In addition, a trade language, Andaman Creole Hindi has also developed in the Andaman Islands.\n\nIn addition, by use in popular culture such as songs and films, Hindi also serves as a \"lingua franca\" across both North and Central India\n\nHindi is widely taught both as a primary language and language of instruction, and as a second tongue in most states.\n\nBritish colonial legacy has resulted in English being a language for government, business and education. English, along with Hindi, is one of the two languages permitted in the Constitution of India for business in Parliament. Despite the fact that Hindi has official Government patronage and serves as a \"lingua franca\" over large parts of India, there was considerable opposition to the use of Hindi in the southern states of India, and English has emerged as a \"de facto\" \"lingua franca\" over much of India.\n\nUntil the Twenty-first Amendment of the Constitution of India in 1967, the country recognised 14 official regional languages. The Eighth Schedule and the Seventy-First Amendment provided for the inclusion of Sindhi, Konkani, Meitei and Nepali, thereby increasing the number of official regional languages of India to 18. The Eighth Schedule of the Constitution of India, as of 1 December 2007, lists 22 languages, which are given in the table below together with the speaking population and the regions where they are used. \nThe individual states, the borders of most of which are or were drawn on socio-linguistic lines, can legislate their own official languages, depending on their linguistic demographics. The official languages chosen reflect the predominant as well as politically significant languages spoken in that state. Certain states having a linguistically defined territory may have only the predominant language in that state as its official language, examples being Karnataka and Gujarat, which have Kannada and Gujarati as their sole official language respectively. Telangana, with a sizeable Urdu-speaking Muslim population, has two languages, Telugu and Urdu, as its official languages.\n\nSome states buck the trend by using minority languages as official languages. Jammu and Kashmir uses Urdu, which is spoken by fewer than 1% of the population. Meghalaya uses English spoken by 0.01% of the population. This phenomenon has turned majority languages into \"minority languages\" in a functional sense.\n\nIn addition to states and union territories, India has autonomous administrative regions which may be permitted to select their own official language – a case in point being the Bodoland Territorial Council in Assam which has declared the Bodo language as official for the region, in addition to Assamese and English already in use. and Bengali in the Barak Valley, as its official languages.\n\nNative to the Bengal region, comprising the nation of Bangladesh and the states of West Bengal, Tripura and Barak Valley region of Assam. Bengali (also spelt as \"Bangla\": বাংলা) is the fifth most spoken language in the world. After the partition of India (1947), refugees from East Pakistan were settled in Tripura, and Jharkhand and the union territory of Andaman and Nicobar Islands. There is also a large number of Bengali-speaking people in Maharashtra and Gujarat where they work as artisans in jewellery industries. Bengali developed from Abahatta, a derivative of Apabhramsha, itself derived from Magadhi Prakrit. The modern Bengali vocabulary contains the vocabulary base from Magadhi Prakrit and Pali, also borrowings & reborrowings from Sanskrit and other major borrowings from Persian, Arabic, Austroasiatic languages and other languages in contact with. Like most Indian languages, Bengali has a number of dialects. It exhibits diglossia, with the literary and standard form differing greatly from the colloquial speech of the regions that identify with the language. Bengali language has developed a rich cultural base spanning art, music, literature and religion. There have been many movements in defence of this language and in 1999 UNESCO declared 21 Feb as the International Mother Language Day in commemoration of the Bengali Language Movement in 1952.\n\nMarathi is an Indo-Aryan language.It is the official language and co-official language in Maharashtra and Goa states of Western India respectively, and is one of the official languages of India. There were 83 million speakers in 2011 and 72 million speakers in 2001. Marathi has the third largest number of native speakers in India. Marathi has some of the oldest literature of all modern Indo-Aryan languages, dating from about 1200 AD (Mukundraj's \"Vivek Sindhu\" from the close of the 12th century). The major dialects of Marathi are Standard Marathi and the Varhadi dialect. There are other related languages such as Khandeshi, Dangi, Vadvali and Samavedi. Malvani Konkani has been heavily influenced by Marathi varieties.Marathi is one of several languages that descend from Maharashtri Prakrit. Further change led to the Apabhraṃśa languages like Old Marathi.\n\nMarathi is the official language of Maharashtra and co-official language in the union territories of Daman and Diu and Dadra and Nagar Haveli. In Goa, Konkani is the sole official language; however, Marathi may also be used for all official purposes.\n\nOver a period of many centuries the Marathi language and people came into contact with many other languages and dialects. The primary influence of Prakrit, Maharashtri, Dravidian languages, Apabhraṃśa and Sanskrit is understandable. At least 50% of the words in Marathi are either taken or derived from Sanskrit. Many scholars claim that Sanskrit has derived many words from Marathi. Marathi has also shared directions, vocabulary and grammar with languages such as Indian Dravidian languages, and foreign languages such as Persian, Arabic, English and a little from Portuguese.\n\nTelugu is the most widely spoken Dravidian language in India and around the world. Telugu is an official language in Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and Yanam, making it one of the few languages (along with Hindi, Bengali, and Urdu) with official status in more than one state. It is also spoken by a significant number of people in the Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Chhattisgarh, Karnataka, Maharashtra, Odisha, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat and by the Sri Lankan Gypsy people. It is one of six languages with classical status in India. Telugu ranks fourth by the number of native speakers in India (81 million in the 2011 Census), fifteenth in the \"Ethnologue\" list of most-spoken languages worldwide and is the most widely spoken Dravidian language.\n\nTamil (also spelt as \"Thamizh\": தமிழ்) is a Dravidian language predominantly spoken in Tamil Nadu, Puduchery and many parts of Sri Lanka. It is also spoken by large minorities in the Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Kerala, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Malaysia, Singapore, Mauritius and throughout the world. Tamil ranks fifth by the number of native speakers in India (61 million in the 2001 Census) and ranks 20th in the list of most spoken languages. It is one of the 22 scheduled languages of India and was the first Indian language to be declared a classical language by the Government of India in 2004. Tamil is one of the longest surviving classical languages in the world. It has been described as \"the only language of contemporary India which is recognisably continuous with a classical past.\" The two earliest manuscripts from India, acknowledged and registered by UNESCO Memory of the World register in 1997 and 2005, are in Tamil.\nTamil is an official language of Tamil Nadu, Puducherry, Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Sri Lanka and Singapore. It is also recognized as minority language in Canada, Malaysia, Mauritius and South Africa.\n\nAfter independence, Modern Standard Urdu, the Persianised register of Hindustani became the national language of Pakistan. During British colonial times, a knowledge of Hindustani or Urdu was a must for officials. Hindustani was made the second language of British Indian Empire after English and considered as the language of administration. The British introduced the use of Roman script for Hindustani as well as other languages. Urdu had 70 million speakers in India (as per the Census of 2001), and, along with Hindi, is one of the 22 officially recognised regional languages of India and also an official language in the Indian states of Jammu and Kashmir, Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and Telangana that have significant Muslim populations.\n\nGujarati is an Indo-Aryan language. It is native to the west Indian region of Gujarat. Gujarati is part of the greater Indo-European language family. Gujarati is descended from Old Gujarati (c. 1100 – 1500 CE), the same source as that of Rajasthani. Gujarati is the chief language in the Indian state of Gujarat. It is also an official language in the union territories of Daman and Diu and Dadra and Nagar Haveli. According to the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA), 4.5% of population of India (1.21 billion according to 2011 census) speaks Gujarati. This amounts to 54.6 million speakers in India.\n\nKannada language is a Dravidian language which branched off from Kannada-Tamil sub group around 500 B.C.E according to the Dravidian scholar Zvelebil. According to the Dravidian scholars Steever and Krishnamurthy, the study of Kannada language is usually divided into three linguistic phases: Old (450–1200 CE), Middle (1200–1700 CE) and Modern (1700–present). The earliest written records are from the 5th century, and the earliest available literature in rich manuscript (\"Kavirajamarga\") is from c. 850. Kannada language has the second oldest written tradition of all vernacular languages of India. Current estimates of the total number of epigraph present in Karnataka range from 25,000 by the scholar Sheldon Pollock to over 30,000 by the Sahitya Akademi, making Karnataka state \"one of the most densely inscribed pieces of real estate in the world\". According to Garg and Shipely, more than a thousand notable writers have contributed to the wealth of the language.\n\nMalayalam (; ) has official language status in the state of Kerala and in the union territories of Lakshadweep and Puducherry. It belongs to the Dravidian family of languages and is spoken by some 38 million people. Malayalam is also spoken in the neighboring states of Tamil Nadu and Karnataka; with some speakers in the Nilgiris, Kanyakumari and Coimbatore districts of Tamil Nadu, and the Dakshina Kannada and the Kodagu district of Karnataka. Malayalam originated from Middle Tamil (Sen-Tamil) in the 7th century. As Malayalam began to freely borrow words as well as the rules of grammar from Sanskrit, the Grantha alphabet was adopted for writing and came to be known as \"Arya Eluttu\". This developed into the modern Malayalam script.\n\nOdia (formerly spelled \"Oriya\") is the only Indian classical language from Indo-Aryan group. Odia is primarily spoken in the Indian state of Odisha and has over 40 million speakers. It was declared as a classical language of India in 2014. Native speakers comprise 91.85% of the population in Odisha. Odia is thought to have originated from Udra Prakrit similar to Udra Magadhi, a language spoken in eastern India over 2,500 years ago. The history of Odia language can be divided to Old Odia (3rd century BC –1200 century AD), Early Middle Odia (1200–1400), Middle Odia (1400–1700), Late Middle Odia (1700–1870) and Modern Odia (1870 till present day). The National Manuscripts Mission of India have found around 213,000 unearthed and preserved manuscripts written in Odia.\n\nPunjabi, written in the Gurmukhi script in India, is one of the prominent languages of India with about 32 million speakers. In Pakistan it is spoken by over 80 million people and is written in the Shahmukhi alphabet. It is mainly spoken in Punjab but also in neighboring areas. It is an official language of Delhi and Punjab.\n\nAsamiya or Assamese language is most popular in the state of Assam and Brahmaputra Valley. It's an Eastern Indo-Aryan language having more than 10 million speakers as per world estimates by Encarta.\n\nMaithili (; \"Maithilī\") is an Indo-Aryan language spoken in the Bihar and Jharkhand states of India.\nIn Nepal, it is spoken in the eastern Terai, and is the second most prevalent language of Nepal. Tirhuta was formerly the primary script for written Maithili. Less commonly, it was also written in the local variant of Kaithi. Today it is written in the Devanagari script.\n\nIn 2003, Maithili was included in the Eighth Schedule of the Indian Constitution as a recognised regional language of India, which allows it to be used in education, government, and other official contexts.\n\nIn 2004, the Government of India declared that languages that met certain requirements could be accorded the status of a \"Classical Language in India\".. Over the next few years, several languages were granted the Classical status, and demands have been made for other languages, including Marathi.\n\nLanguages thus far declared to be Classical:\nIn a 2006 press release, Minister of Tourism and Culture Ambika Soni told the Rajya Sabha the following criteria were laid down to determine the eligibility of languages to be considered for classification as a \"Classical Language\",\n\nAs per Government of India's Resolution No. 2-16/2004-US(Akademies) dated 1 November 2004, the benefits that will accrue to a language declared as a \"Classical Language\" are:\n\nThe 2001 census identified the following native languages having more than one million speakers. Most of them are dialects/variants grouped under Hindi.\nIndia has several languages in use; choosing any single language as an official language presents problems to all those whose \"mother tongue\" is different. However, all the boards of education across India recognise the need for training people to one common language. There are complaints that in North India, non-Hindi speakers have language trouble. Similarly, there are complaints that North Indians have to undergo difficulties on account of language when travelling to South India. It is common to hear of incidents that result due to friction between those who strongly believe in the chosen official language, and those who follow the thought that the chosen language(s) do not take into account everyone's preferences. Local official language commissions have been established and various steps are being taken in a direction to reduce tensions and friction.\n\nThere are conflicts over linguistic rights in India. The first major linguistic conflict, known as the Anti-Hindi agitations of Tamil Nadu, took place in Tamil Nadu against the implementation of Hindi as the official language of India. Political analysts consider this as a major factor in bringing DMK to power and leading to the ousting and nearly total elimination of the Congress party in Tamil Nadu. Strong cultural pride based on language is also found in other Indian states such as Karnataka, Bengal, Punjab and Maharashtra. To express disapproval of the imposition of Hindi on its states' people as a result of the central government, the government of Maharashtra made the state languages mandatory in educational institutions.\n\nThe Government of India attempts to assuage these conflicts with various campaigns, coordinated by the Central Institute of Indian Languages, Mysore, a branch of the Department of Higher Education, Language Bureau, and the Ministry of Human Resource Development.\n\nMost languages in India are written in Brahmi-derived scripts, such as Devanagari, Tamil, Telugu, Kannada,Meitei Mayek, Odia, Eastern Nagari - Assamese/Bengali, etc., though Urdu is written in a script derived from Arabic, and a few minor languages such as Santali use independent scripts.\n\nVarious Indian languages have their own scripts. Hindi, Marathi, Maithili and Angika are languages written using the Devanagari script. Most major languages are written using a script specific to them, such as Assamese (Asamiya) with Asamiya, Bengali with Bengali, Punjabi with Gurmukhi, Meitei with Meitei Mayek, Odia with Odia script, Gujarati with Gujarati, etc. Urdu and sometimes Kashmiri, Saraiki and Sindhi are written in modified versions of the Perso-Arabic script. With this one exception, the scripts of Indian languages are native to India. Languages like Kodava that didn't have a script whereas Tulu which had a script adopted Kannada due to its readily available printing settings; these languages have taken up the scripts of the local official languages as their own and are written in the Kannada script.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53909292", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53909292", "title": "List of 2017 United States cannabis reform proposals", "text": "List of 2017 United States cannabis reform proposals\n\nIn 2017, U.S. states proposed or are expected to propose cannabis reform legislation for medical marijuana and non-medical adult use. State-level legalization remains at odds with cannabis' status as a Schedule I narcotic under the Controlled Substances Act at the Federal level, and the Cannabis policy of the Donald Trump administration remains unclear as of early 2017.\n\nStates expected to propose legislation include Delaware, Rhode Island, New Jersey, Texas, Virginia, Kentucky, New Mexico, Vermont, and Missouri.\n\nA legalization bill was introduced by state senator Margaret Rose Henry in March, 2017.\n\nThe Cannabis Compassion Act (BR 409) for medical cannabis was filed in December, 2016.\n\nOn May 17, the Michigan Secretary of State approved for signature collection a voter initiative which will, if it becomes law, allow adult possession of 2.5 ounces of cannabis, and create a state regulatory system for production and sale in Michigan. The initiative's sponsor, Coalition to Regulate Marijuana Like Alcohol, is the state level activity of the national Marijuana Policy Project.\n\nA legalization initiative was certified to begin gathering signatures by Missouri's Secretary of State in January. The previous year, an initiative failed the threshold to appear on the ballot by 23 signatures.\n\nHB 640, a bill to decriminalize possession of a fraction of an ounce of cannabis was passed by voice vote on June 1 and sent to the governor for his signature to become law. The governor, Chris Sununu, has expressed his intention to sign the bill.\n\nIn February, state senator Nicholas Scutari said he would introduce legislation to legalize cannabis in the state.\n\nRhode Island state senator Joshua Miller and representative Scott Slater said they planned to introduce a legalization bill for the seventh straight year in 2017.\n\nIn August, the state's Lieutenant Governor Randy McNally and House Speaker Beth Harwell announced in a letter that they intended to form an ad-hoc committee to consider legalization of medical marijuana.\n\nOn April 3, 2017, a bill decriminalizing possession of under an ounce of cannabis cleared a committee for consideration by the state house. Other legislation included SB 269, introduced by state senator Jose Menendez, which would go beyond then-current legal status of CBD oil, and completely legalize medical cannabis. State senator José R. Rodríguez introduced a similar bill, Senate Joint Resolution 18, and SJR 17 to put non-medical legalization to a statewide ballot in November.\n\nAn updated version of a failed 2016 Senate bill was passed on April 21. On May 3, the state House passed its own version of legalization. The two bills needed to be reconciled. On May 10, the joint bill legalizing cannabis was approved by the state legislature, for the first time in U.S. history. On May 24, Governor Phil Scott vetoed the bill.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25428366", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25428366", "title": "List of Armenian Azerbaijanis", "text": "List of Armenian Azerbaijanis\n\nThis is a list of notable people of Armenian Azerbaijani descent.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "733573", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=733573", "title": "List of XYZZY Awards by category", "text": "List of XYZZY Awards by category\n\nThis is a list of XYZZY Awards results, grouped by award rather than year. The XYZZY Awards are the annual awards given by the publication \"XYZZYnews\" to works of interactive fiction, serving a similar role to the Academy Awards for film. The awards were inaugurated in 1997, initially with eight categories: best game, best writing, best story, best setting, best puzzles, best individual puzzle, best NPCs (non-player characters) and best individual NPC. Two others, best individual player-character and best use of medium, were added the following year. For the 2010 awards, the best use of medium award was divided into separate awards for best implementation and best use of innovation, while new awards were instituted for non-game creations: best technological development and best supplemental materials. Presented in early spring, any game released during the year prior to the award ceremony is eligible for nomination to receive an award. The decision process takes place in two stages: members of the interactive fiction community nominate works within specific categories and sufficiently supported nominations become finalists within those categories. Typically there are four or five finalists in each category. Community members then vote among the finalists, and the game receiving a plurality of votes is given the award in an online ceremony on ifMUD.\n\nEach entry below lists the winners of each award in each year, followed by other finalists for that year.\n\nGiven since 1996, the award for Best Game recognizes the game which is the most enjoyable as a whole; other awards recognize merit in particular qualities.\n\n\nLike the Best Game award, the Best Writing award has been given since 1996. It recognizes a game which rises above the others in the quality of its descriptive text.\n\n\nThis award has been given since 1996. It recognizes the game with the deepest or most original story.\n\n\nThe award for Best Setting, also given since 1996, recognizes games with the most original or best-described locations.\n\n\nThe award for Best Puzzles recognizes the game with the most well-crafted, clever, and appropriate puzzles. It has also been given since 1996.\n\n\nAnother of the original awards, the award for Best NPCs recognizes particularly appropriate, amusing, and well-written casts of non-player characters.\n\n\nThe seventh original award is that for the Best Individual Puzzle. It recognizes a particularly inspired, well-crafted, and intriguing puzzle.\n\n\nThe last of the original awards given in 1996 is the award for the Best Individual NPC. This award recognizes a particularly well-implemented and well-written non-player character.\n\n\nThe award for the Best Individual PC was one of two XYZZY Awards added in 1997. It is intended to recognize particularly well-defined and well-written player characters. The very existence of this award violates the principle of AFGNCAAP, which stresses the importance of leaving certain characteristics of the protagonist intentionally vague to allow the player to more easily envision themselves as the central character. However, many games, such as those listed here, have demonstrated that successful interactive fiction stories can also be told with a more well-defined player character.\n\n\nThe Best Implementation award was introduced in 2010 along with Best Use of Innovation, to replace the Best use of Medium award. It recognizes \"completeness of implementation, excellence in parser messages, etc\".\n\n\nThe Best Use of Innovation award was introduced in 2010 along with Best Implementation, to replace the Best use of Medium award. It recognizes the \"most innovative game\".\n\n\nThe Best Use of Medium award, the other XYZZY Award added in 1997, is not a clearly defined award, with no specific criteria given to voters. The interpretation of what particular quality this award recognizes remains open; many voters choose to interpret this award as a recognition of particularly daring interpretations of the limits and abilities of interactive fiction, especially as regards the relationship between the player, narrator, and player character. This award was retired in 2010, when Best Implementation and Best Use of Innovation were introduced as replacements.\n\n\nThe Best Technological Development award was introduced in 2010 to recognize \"interpreters, authoring systems, libraries, utilities, and so on\".\n\n\nThe Best Supplemental Materials award was introduced in 2010 to recognize outstanding non-game content (\"feelies\") created to accompany specific games. Eligibility is based on the year when the supplemental materials were released, regardless of the year of release of the game.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5092586", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5092586", "title": "List of major crimes in the United Kingdom", "text": "List of major crimes in the United Kingdom\n\nThis is a list of major crimes in the United Kingdom that received significant media coverage or led to changes in legislation.\n\nLegally each deliberate and unlawful killing of a human being is murder; there are no crimes of assassination or serial killing as such, for example.\n\nSee also the category assassinated British People. .\n\nSee also category Organised crime groups in the United Kingdom .\n\n\"Excludes incidents that happened during the Troubles in Northern Ireland.\" See also List of terrorist incidents in London.\n\n"}
{"id": "37840109", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37840109", "title": "Loss and damage", "text": "Loss and damage\n\nThe term Loss and damage denotes impacts of climate-related stressors that occur despite efforts to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and adapt to climatic changes. Loss and damage can result from sudden-onset events (climate disasters, such as cyclones) as well as slow-onset processes (such as sea level rise). Loss and damage can occur in human systems (such as livelihoods) as well as natural systems (such as biodiversity), though the emphasis in research and policy is on human impacts. Within the realm of loss and damage to human systems, a distinction is made between economic losses and non-economic losses. The main difference between the two is that non-economic losses involve things that are not commonly traded in markets. \n\nAt the 18th Conference of the Parties meeting of the UNFCCC in 2012 in Doha, Qatar, it took 36 hours of negotiation between 195 nations to arrive at a plan to address loss and damage associated with adverse effects of climate change particularly in countries most vulnerable to climate change. A new website was launched at the conference by the Loss and Damage Vulnerable Countries Initiative. It described its aim as being \"the first dedicated site for news, resources and opinion on the issue of loss and damage associated with the adverse impacts of climate change\". Examples of types of loss and damage include farmers who can no longer grow crops to eat, or grass to feed cattle, because their soil has become too salty, and fishermen who have lost their livelihoods because rivers have dried up.\n\nIn popular press, and in statements by some parties in the climate negotiations, the terms loss and damage is often associated with liability and compensation. This explains why the topic raises heated debates, and tends to widen the divide between developed countries, which are historically responsible for most greenhouse gas emissions, and developing countries that are more vulnerable to impacts of climate change. For vulnerable countries, loss and damage is most of all about recognizing that past and current efforts to avoid dangerous climate change, and that there are limits and constraints to adaptation. \n\nThe United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change has developed a work programme on loss and damage which aims to find ways to address the issue in developing countries that are particularly vulnerable to the adverse effects of climate change. On 12–14 September 2013, it held a meeting in Fiji to consider how best to address loss and damage from 'slow-onset events'. These are impacts of climate change that occur over time, such as sea-level rise, rather than in a single, destructive event. Bangladesh is already suffering from loss and damage resulting from sea-level rise, due to its flat terrain in the coastal region.\n\nAt the 19th Conference of the Parties meeting of the UNFCCC in 2013 in Warsaw, Poland, the Warsaw International Mechanism for Loss and Damage associated with Climate Change Impacts was established. At the 20th Conference of the Parties in Lima, Peru (2014), the work plan of the executive committee of the Warsaw International Mechanism was approved.\n\nThe 5th Assessment Report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), published in 2013-2014 had no separate chapter on loss and damage, but \"Working Group II: Impacts, Adaptation and Vulnerability\" (WG2) Chapter 16 about adaptation limits and constraints, is very relevant for people interested in loss and damage. A qualitative data analysis (QDA) of what the IPCC 5th Assessment Report has to say about loss and damage surprisingly showed that the term was used much more often in statements about Annex 1 countries (e.g. US, Australia or European countries) than in text about non-Annex 1 countries (most countries in Africa, Asia Latin America and the Pacific), which tend to be more vulnerable to impacts of climate change. Despite repeated suggestions by delegates from vulnerable countries, the IPCC 6th Assessment Report will not have a chapter on loss and damage. \n\n"}
{"id": "26747105", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26747105", "title": "Mamozai", "text": "Mamozai\n\nMamozai is a Pashtun tribe of Orakzai Agency along the Afghanistan and Pakistan border. Like many Afghans or Pashtuns, Orakzai are split along both sides of the border. It consists of a large area including places such as Sama Bazaar, Kach Gari, Jaba (land of beauty and water fountains), Matrak, Gutta Khel, Kalaya, Khawano,karim nawasi, arghenja bazzar, kama darra, ghatta darra, Krapa and Darrah. The Mamuzai have five subtribes (\"tapa\"s: the Akhunzadagan, the Ado Khel, Abdur Rahim Khel, Sipoyee, and Mir Kalam Khel). A number of Mamozai also live in Kohat, Peshawar, and other parts of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa; those living in urban areas tend to be more educated but otherwise share most of the cultural norms of the Mamozai. This tribe is one of the most gallant tribes of fata. \n\nThe Mamuzai tribe borders the Alisherzai and Ali Khel tribes of Orakzai, as well as the Maidan of Khyber Agency. \n\n..mamozai have an old history.The history goes to the British government. "}
{"id": "2137372", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2137372", "title": "Mary Jane Keeney", "text": "Mary Jane Keeney\n\nMary Jane Keeney (1898–1969) and her husband Philip Olin Keeney were librarians and charter members of the liberal The Progressive Librarians Council. She worked at the Board of Economic Warfare in Washington D.C. during World War II. In November 1945, Keeney travelled to Europe to work with the Allied Staff on Reparations.\n\nShe was alleged to be passing information to the Soviet Union through Joseph Milton Bernstein. After the war Keeney worked at the United Nations. Deciphered Venona cables and her own diaries corroborate the fact that Keeney and her husband, Philip Keeney, both worked for the GRU. Keeney's diary details that Sergey Kurnakov became their new KGB handler.\n\nIn February 1950, Senator Joseph McCarthy accused Keeney of being a member of the Communist Party, not an agent serving a foreign government. By the end of 1950, Keeney lost her position with the United Nations. She was convicted of contempt of Congress. However, the decision was overturned upon appeal.\n\nThe Keeneys then opened a theatre in Greenwich Village called Club Cinema to air mostly foreign-language titles, with occasional live performances. Mary Jane died in 1969 at the age of seventy-one. She was preceded by her husband.\n\n"}
{"id": "8248132", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8248132", "title": "Microregions of Brazil", "text": "Microregions of Brazil\n\nA microregion () was a legally defined area in Brazil consisting of a group of municipalities. They were extinguished in 2017 and replaced by \"immediate geographic regions\" . Microregions were grouped together into mesoregions. In theory, Brazilian law provided for member municipalities to cooperate on matters of common interest, but in practice, the divisions were used primarily for statistical purposes by the Brazilian Institute of Geography and Statistics.\n\n, there are 5,569 municipalities, divided among 557 microregions and 136 mesoregions:\n"}
{"id": "23678535", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23678535", "title": "Montenegrins of Slovenia", "text": "Montenegrins of Slovenia\n\nSlovenian Montenegrins (Montenegrin: \"Slovenački Crnogorci\") are a national minority in Slovenia. \n\nAccording to the 2002 Slovenian census there are 2,667 ethnic Montenegrins in Slovenia.\n"}
{"id": "28822519", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28822519", "title": "National Commission for the Observance of World Population Year 1974", "text": "National Commission for the Observance of World Population Year 1974\n\nNational Commission for the Observance of World Population Year 1974 - the United Nations observed 1974 as \"World Population Year\". President Richard Nixon established the National Commission to aid U.S. participation in this United Nations observance. Neither the Commission nor any of its members participated in the August 1975 international conference held in Bucharest, Romania.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10413843", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10413843", "title": "North Mesopotamian Arabic", "text": "North Mesopotamian Arabic\n\nNorth Mesopotamian Arabic (also known as Moslawi [meaning 'of Mosul'] or Mesopotamian Qeltu Arabic) is a variety of Mesopotamian Arabic spoken north of the Hamrin Mountains in Iraq, in western Iran, northern Syria, and in southeastern Turkey (in the eastern Mediterranean Region, Southeastern Anatolia Region, and southern Eastern Anatolia Region). Like other Mesopotamian Arabic varieties and Levantine Arabic, it shows signs of an Aramaic substrate.\n\nCypriot Arabic shares a number of common features with North Mesopotamian Arabic, and one if its pre-Cypriot medieval antecedents has been deduced as belonging to this dialect area. However, its current form is a hybrid of different varieties and languages, including Levantine Arabic and Greek.\n\nNorth Mesopotamian Arabic was once spoken in all of Mesopotamia including what is today Southern Iraq and Khuzestan in Iran (Babylon), the Mesopotamian Gelet was created because of a migration of Bedouins into south and central Mesopotamia after the Mongol invasion.\nJudeo-Iraqi Arabic is the only remnant of North Mesopotamian that was spoken in the south and represents the pre Mongol invasion Jewish dialects that shows more influence of Akkadian and Eastern Aramaic in them.\n\nEven in the most formal of conventions, pronunciation depends upon a speaker's background. Nevertheless, the number and phonetic character of most of the 28 consonants has a broad degree of regularity among Arabic-speaking regions. Note that Arabic is particularly rich in uvular, pharyngeal, and pharyngealized (\"emphatic\") sounds. The emphatic coronals (, , and ) cause assimilation of emphasis to adjacent non-emphatic coronal consonants. The phonemes ⟨پ⟩ and ⟨ڤ⟩ (not used by all speakers) are not considered to be part of the phonemic inventory, as they exist only in foreign words and they can be pronounced as ⟨ب⟩ and ⟨ف⟩ respectively depending on the speaker.\nPhonetic notes: \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45416841", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45416841", "title": "Okra soup", "text": "Okra soup\n\nOkra soup is prepared using the edible green seed pods of the okra flowering plant as a primary ingredient. It is greenish in colour. Okra has a slippery feel when rubbed with the fingers. The edible green seed pods can also be used in stews.\n\nIn Sub-Saharan Africa okra soup is a delicacy, the plants name derives from the Igbo language. In Yoruba, it is referred to as \"obe lla\".\n\nChinese okra soup is a \"country style dish often served at family meals\".\n\nIn Indonesian cuisine okra soup is called \"sayur oyong\", usually served in clear chicken broth with rice vermicelli (\"bihun\") or mung bean vermicelli (\"sohun\"), with slices of \"bakso\" (ground beef surimi).\n\nIn the United States, the first recipe for okra soup was published in 1824 in the book \"The Virginia Housewife\". After this initial publication, okra soup was commonly included in American cookbooks. In the late 1800s, okra soup recipes were commonly published in \"The New York Times\". In the U.S., okra soup has been prepared using canned okra. It is a traditional soup in Savannah, Georgia and Charleston, South Carolina.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48842379", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48842379", "title": "Paul Lewis Abrams", "text": "Paul Lewis Abrams\n\nPaul Lewis Abrams (born March 2, 1958) is a United States Magistrate Judge for the Central District of California and is a former nominee to be a United States District Judge of the United States District Court for the Central District of California.\n\nAbrams was born on March 2, 1958, in Los Angeles County, California. He received an Artium Baccalaureus degree, cum laude, in 1979 from the University of California at Berkeley. He received a Juris Doctor in 1983 from the Boalt Hall School of Law at the University of California at Berkeley. He began his legal career as an associate at the law firm of Jeffer, Mangels & Butler (now Jeffer, Mangels, Butler & Mitchell LLP) where he served from 1983 to 1985. From 1985 to 1987, he served as Director of the Bet Tzedek Legal Services' Valley Rights Project. He served as a Deputy Federal Public Defender in the Los Angeles Federal Public Defender's Office from 1987 to 2001, serving as a Supervising Deputy Federal Public Defender from 1992 to 2001. Since 2001, he has served as a United States Magistrate Judge in the Central District of California, also serving as a judicial officer in the court's Conviction and Sentence Alternatives Program.\n\nOn December 16, 2015, President Obama nominated Abrams to serve as a United States District Judge of the United States District Court for the Central District of California, to the seat being vacated by Judge Dean D. Pregerson, who took senior status on January 28, 2016. On May 18, 2016 the Judiciary Committee held a hearing on his nomination. His nomination expired on January 3, 2017, with the end of the 114th Congress.\n\n"}
{"id": "20183521", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20183521", "title": "Rags to riches", "text": "Rags to riches\n\nRags to riches refers to any situation in which a person rises from poverty to wealth, and in some cases from absolute obscurity to heights of fame—sometimes instantly. This is a common archetype in literature and popular culture (for example, the writings of Horatio Alger, Jr. and recently J. K. Rowling).\n\nThe concept of \"Rags to riches\" has been criticised by social reformers, revolutionaries, essayists and statisticians, who argue that only a handful of exceptionally capable and/or mainly lucky persons are actually able to travel the \"rags to riches\" road, being the great publicity given to such cases causes a natural survivorship bias illusion, which help keep the masses of the working class and the working poor in line, preventing them from agitating for an overall collective change in the direction of social equality.\n\n\n\nThousands of people have risen from poverty to riches; some are: \n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45023117", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45023117", "title": "Rich Curtner", "text": "Rich Curtner\n\nRich Curtner is the Federal Public Defender for the District of Alaska.\n\nF. Richard Curtner has been a public defender for over 40 years. Mr. Curtner received his undergraduate degree from Ohio State University in 1970. After serving in the U.S. Army from 1970 to 1972, he enrolled in the Capital University Law School in Columbus, Ohio, where he received his Juris Doctor degree in 1976.\n\nCurtner started in the Public Defender Office in Columbus, Ohio, while in law school. After ten years, he was an office supervisor and felony trial attorney, handling a number of cases through trial and appeals. Curtner moved to Alaska in 1987. He spent the first five years in Alaska at the Public Defender Agency in Palmer. He first joined the Federal Defender Office in 1992 as an Assistant Federal Defender. Struggling in his career, Curtner returned briefly to private practice, and then he served a short term back at the State Public Defender Office as Training Director.\n\nIn 1996, Curtner was appointed by the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals as the Federal Defender for Alaska. Curtner was reappointed to five additional four-year terms. As the chief administrative officer, Rich Curtner works with five other Federal Defenders in the Anchorage home office, plus support staff. The office is responsible for providing indigent defense services in federal court for all of Alaska.\n\nCurtner has represented clients including Joshua Wade, who in 2010 admitted to killing his neighbor, Mindy Schloss in 2007, as well as Della Brown in 2000, a crime for which Wade had been found not guilty at a state court trial. Curtner also represented confessed Serial killer Israel Keyes, who committed suicide while in custody awaiting trial for the horrific kidnapping and depraved murder of an 18-year-old Anchorage barista, Samantha Koenig.\n\nCurtner has long served as a member of the Board of Directors of Alaskans Against the Death Penalty (\"AADP\"), and he is a strong supporter of the Alaska Innocence Project. Although Curtner was one of four Anchorage defense attorneys who founded the Alaska Association of Criminal Defense Lawyers (\"AKACDL\") in 2009, Curtner never served as an officer of the organization. \n\nCurtner, a long time handball enthusiast, is Chairman of the Alaska Chapter of the United States Handball Association. He is also a member of the Board of Directors of the Anchorage International Film Festival\n\n"}
{"id": "27122", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27122", "title": "Sami people", "text": "Sami people\n\nThe Sami people (also known as the Sámi or the Saami) are a Finno-Ugric people inhabiting Sápmi, which today encompasses large parts of Norway and Sweden, northern parts of Finland, and the Murmansk Oblast of Russia. The Sami have historically been known in English as the Lapps or the Laplanders, which have a derogatory implication in Scandinavia, but not elsewhere. Sami ancestral lands are not well-defined. Their traditional languages are the Sami languages and are classified as a branch of the Uralic language family.\n\nTraditionally, the Sami have pursued a variety of livelihoods, including coastal fishing, fur trapping, and sheep herding. Their best-known means of livelihood is semi-nomadic reindeer herding. Currently about 10% of the Sami are connected to reindeer herding, providing them with meat, fur, and transportation. 2,800 Sami people are actively involved in reindeer herding on a full-time basis. For traditional, environmental, cultural, and political reasons, reindeer herding is legally reserved for only Sami people in some regions of the Nordic countries.\n\nSámi refer to themselves as \"Sámit\" (the Sámis) or \"Sápmelaš\" (of Sámi kin), the word \"Sámi\" being inflected into various grammatical forms. It has been proposed that Sámi (presumably borrowed from the Proto-Finnic word), \"Häme\" (Finnish for Tavastia) ( ← Proto-Finnic *\"šämä\", the second \"ä\" still being found in the archaic derivation \"Hämäläinen\"), and perhaps \"Suomi\" (Finnish for Finland) (← *\"sōme-\"/\"sōma-\", compare \"suomalainen\", supposedly borrowed from a Proto-Germanic source *\"sōma-\" from Proto-Baltic *\"sāma-\", in turn borrowed from Proto-Finnic *\"šämä\") are of the same origin and ultimately borrowed from the Baltic word \"*žēmē\", meaning \"land\". The Baltic word is cognate with Slavic \"земля (zemlja)\", which also means \"land\".\nThe Sámi institutions—notably the parliaments, radio and TV stations, theatres, etc.—all use the term \"Sámi\", including when addressing outsiders in Norwegian, Swedish, Finnish, or English. In Norwegian, the Sámi are today referred to by the Norwegianized form \"same\", whereas the word \"lapp\" would be considered archaic and pejorative (see below).\n\nThe first probable historical mention of the Sami, naming them \"Fenni\", was by Tacitus, about 98 A.D. Variants of \"Finn\" or \"Fenni\" were in wide use in ancient times, judging from the names \"Fenni\" and \"Phinnoi\" in classical Roman and Greek works. \"Finn\" (or variants, such as \"skridfinn\", \"striding Finn\") was the name originally used by Norse speakers (and their proto-Norse speaking ancestors) to refer to the Sami, as attested in the Icelandic Eddas and Norse sagas (11th to 14th centuries). The etymology is somewhat uncertain, but the consensus seems to be that it is related to Old Norse \"finna\", from proto-Germanic *finthanan (\"to find\"), the logic being that the Sami, as hunter-gatherers \"found\" their food, rather than grew it. As Old Norse gradually developed into the separate Scandinavian languages, Swedes apparently took to using Finn exclusively to refer to inhabitants of Finland, while Sami came to be called Lapps. In Norway, however, Sami were still called Finns at least until the modern era (reflected in toponyms like Finnmark, Finnsnes, Finnfjord and Finnøy) and some Northern Norwegians will still occasionally use Finn to refer to Sami people, although the Sami themselves now consider this to be a pejorative term. Finnish immigrants to Northern Norway in the 18th and 19th centuries were referred to as \"Kvens\" to distinguish them from the Sami \"Finns\". Ethnic Finns are a distinct group from Sami.\n\nThe word \"Lapp\" can be traced to Old Swedish \"lapper\", Icelandic \"lappir\" (plural) of Finnish origin; compare Finnish \"lappalainen\" \"Lapp\", \"Lappi\" \"Lapland\" (possibly meaning \"wilderness in the north\"), the original meaning being unknown. It is unknown how the word \"Lapp\" came into the Norse language, but one of the first written mentions of the term is in the \"Gesta Danorum\" by 12th-century Danish historian Saxo Grammaticus, who referred to \"the two Lappias\", although he still referred to the Sami as (Skrid-)Finns. In fact, Saxo never explicitly connects the Sami with the \"two Laplands\". The term \"Lapp\" was popularized and became the standard terminology by the work of Johannes Schefferus, \"Acta Lapponica\" (1673).\n\nThe Sámi are often known in other languages by the exonyms \"Lap\", \"Lapp\", or \"Laplanders\", although these are considered as derogatory terms. while others accept at least the name \"Lappland\". Variants of the name \"Lapp\" were originally used in Sweden and Finland and, through Swedish, adopted by many major European languages: ; German, ; ; (\"Lápōnes\"); ; ; ; ; ; ; . In Russian the corresponding term is лопари́ (\"lopari\") and in Ukrainian лопарі́ (\"lopari\").\n\nIn Finland and Sweden, \"Lapp\" is common in place names, such as \"Lappi\" (Satakunta), \"Lappeenranta\" (South Karelia) and \"Lapinlahti\" (North Savo) in Finland; and \"Lapp\" (Stockholm County), \"Lappe\" (Södermanland) and \"Lappabo\" (Småland) in Sweden. As already mentioned, \"Finn\" is a common element in Norwegian (particularly Northern Norwegian) place names, whereas \"Lapp\" is exceedingly rare.\n\nTerminological issues in Finnish are somewhat different. Finns living in Finnish Lapland generally call themselves \"lappilainen\", whereas the similar word for the Sámi people is \"lappalainen\". This can be confusing for foreign visitors because of the similar lives Finns and Sámi people live today in Lapland. Lappalainen is also a common family name in Finland. As in the Scandinavian languages, \"lappalainen\" is often considered archaic or pejorative, and \"saamelainen\" is used instead, at least in official contexts.\n\nSince prehistoric times, the Sami people of Arctic Europe have lived and worked in an area that stretches over the northern parts of the regions now known as Norway, Sweden, Finland, and the Russian Kola Peninsula. They have inhabited the northern arctic and sub-arctic regions of Fenno-Scandinavia and Russia for at least 5,000 years. The Sami are counted among the Arctic peoples and are members of circumpolar groups such as the Arctic Council Indigenous Peoples' Secretariat.\n\nPetroglyphs and archeological findings such as settlements dating from about 10,000 B.C. can be found in the traditional lands of the Sami. These hunters and gatherers of the late Paleolithic and early Mesolithic were named Komsa by the researchers as what they identified themselves as is unknown.\n\nRecent archaeological discoveries in Finnish Lapland were originally seen as the continental version of the Komsa culture about the same age as the earliest finds on the coast of Norway. It is hypothesized that the Komsa followed receding glaciers inland from the Arctic coast at the end of the last ice age (between 11,000 and 8000 years B.C.) as new land opened up for settlement (e.g., modern Finnmark area in the northeast, to the coast of the Kola Peninsula).\n\nHow far south the Sami extended in the past has been debated among historians and archeologists for many years. The Norwegian historian Yngvar Nielsen, commissioned by the Norwegian government in 1889 to determine this question to settle contemporary questions of Sami land rights, concluded that the Sami had lived no farther south than Lierne in Nord-Trøndelag county until around 1500, when they started moving south, reaching the area around Lake Femund in the 18th century. This hypothesis is still accepted among many historians, but has been the subject of scholarly debate in the 21st century. In recent years, several archaeological finds indicate a Sami presence in southern Norway in the Middle Ages, and southern Sweden, including finds in Lesja, in Vang, in Valdres and in Hol and Ål in Hallingdal. Proponents of the Sami interpretations of these finds assume a mixed population of Norse and Sami people in the mountainous areas of southern Norway in the Middle Ages.\n\nUntil the arrival of bubonic plague in northern Norway in 1349, the Sami and the Norwegians occupied very separate economic niches. The Sami hunted reindeer and fished for their livelihood. The Norwegians, who were concentrated on the outer islands and near the mouths of the fjords, had access to the major European trade routes so that, in addition to marginal farming in the Nordland, Troms, and Finnmark counties, they were able to establish commerce, supplying fish in trade for products from the south. The two groups co-existed using two different food resources. According to old Nordic texts, the Sea Sami and the Mountain Sami are two classes of the same people and not two different ethnic groups as had been erroneously believed.\n\nThis social economic balance greatly changed with the introduction of the bubonic plague to northern Norway in December 1349. The Norwegians were closely connected to the greater European trade routes, along which the plague traveled; consequently, they were infected and died at a far higher rate than Sami in the interior. Of all the states in the region, Norway suffered the most from this plague. Depending on the parish, sixty to seventy-six percent of the northern Norwegian farms were abandoned following the plague, while land-rents, another possible measure of the population numbers, dropped down to between 9–28% of pre-plague rents. Although the population of northern Norway is sparse compared to southern Europe, the spread of the disease was just as rapid. The method of movement of the plague-infested flea \"(Xenopsylla cheopsis)\" from the south was in wooden barrels holding wheat, rye, or wool—where the fleas could live, and even reproduce, for several months at a time. The Sami, having a non-wheat or -rye diet, eating fish and reindeer meat, living in communities detached from the Norwegians, and being only weakly connected to the European trade routes, fared far better than the Norwegians.\n\nFishing has always been the main livelihood for the many Sami living permanently in coastal areas. Archeological research shows that the Sami have lived along the coast and once lived much farther south in the past, and they were also involved in work other than reindeer herding (e.g., fishing, agriculture, iron work). The fishing along the north Norwegian coast, especially in the Lofoten and Vesterålen islands, is quite productive with a variety of fish, and during medieval times, it was a major source of income for both the fisherman and the Norwegian monarchy. With such massive population drops caused by the Black Death, the tax revenues from this industry greatly diminished. Because of the huge economic profits that could be had from these fisheries, the local authorities offered incentives to the Sami—faced with their own population pressures—to settle on the newly vacant farms. This started the economic division between the Sea Sami (\"sjøsamene\"), who fished extensively off the coast, and the Mountain Sami (\"fjellsamene, innlandssamene\"), who continued to hunt reindeer and small-game animals. They later herded reindeer. Even as late as the early 18th century, there were many Sami who were still settling on these farms left abandoned from the 1350s. After many years of continuous migration, these Sea Sami became far more numerous than the reindeer mountain Sami, who today only make up 10% of all Sami. In contemporary times, there are also ongoing consultations between the Government of Norway and the Sami Parliament regarding the right of the coastal Sami to fish in the seas on the basis of historical use and international law. State regulation of sea fisheries underwent drastic change in the late 1980s. The regulation linked quotas to vessels and not to fishers. These newly calculated quotas were distributed free of cost to larger vessels on the basis of the amount of the catch in previous years, resulting in small vessels in Sami districts falling outside the new quota system to a large degree.\n\nAs the Sea Sami settled along Norway's fjords and inland waterways pursuing a combination of farming, cattle raising, trapping and fishing, the smaller minority of the Mountain Sami continued to hunt wild reindeer. Around 1500, they started to tame these animals into herding groups, becoming the well-known reindeer nomads, often portrayed by outsiders as following the archetypal Sami lifestyle. The Mountain Sami faced the fact that they had to pay taxes to three nation-states, Norway, Sweden and Russia, as they crossed the borders of each of the respective countries following the annual reindeer migrations, which caused much resentment over the years. Between 1635-1659, the Swedish crown forced Swedish conscripts and Sami cart drivers to work at a mine at Nasafjäll, causing many Samis to emigrate from the area to avoid forced labour. As a result, the population of Pite and Lule Samis decreased greatly.\n\nFor long periods of time, the Sami lifestyle thrived because of its adaptation to the Arctic environment. Indeed, throughout the 18th century, as Norwegians of Northern Norway suffered from low fish prices and consequent depopulation, the Sami cultural element was strengthened, since the Sami were mostly independent of supplies from Southern Norway.\n\nHowever, during the 19th century, Norwegian authorities pressured the Sami to make Norwegian language and culture universal. Strong economic development of the north also ensued, giving Norwegian culture and language higher status. On the Swedish and Finnish sides, the authorities were less militant, although the Sami language was forbidden in schools and strong economic development in the north led to weakened cultural and economic status for the Sami. From 1913 to 1920, the Swedish race-segregation political movement created a race-based biological institute that collected research material from living people and graves, and sterilized Sami women. Throughout history, Swedish settlers were encouraged to move to the northern regions through incentives such as land and water rights, tax allowances, and military exemptions.\n\nThe strongest pressure took place from around 1900 to 1940, when Norway invested considerable money and effort to wipe out Sami culture. Anyone who wanted to buy or lease state lands for agriculture in Finnmark had to prove knowledge of the Norwegian language and had to register with a Norwegian name. This caused the dislocation of Sami people in the 1920s, which increased the gap between local Sami groups (something still present today) that sometimes has the character of an internal Sami ethnic conflict. In 1913, the Norwegian parliament passed a bill on \"native act land\" to allocate the best and most useful lands to Norwegian settlers. Another factor was the scorched earth policy conducted by the German army, resulting in heavy war destruction in northern Finland and northern Norway in 1944–45, destroying all existing houses, or \"kota\", and visible traces of Sami culture. After World War II the pressure was relaxed though the legacy was evident into recent times, such as the 1970s law limiting the size of any house Sami people were allowed to build. \n\nThe controversy over the construction of the hydro-electric power station in Alta in 1979 brought Sami rights onto the political agenda. In August 1986, the national anthem (\"Sámi soga lávlla\") and flag (Sami flag) of the Sami people were created. In 1989, the first Sami parliament in Norway was elected. In 2005, the Finnmark Act was passed in the Norwegian parliament giving the Sami parliament and the Finnmark Provincial council a joint responsibility of administering the land areas previously considered state property. These areas (96% of the provincial area), which have always been used primarily by the Sami, now belong officially to the people of the province, whether Sami or Norwegian, and not to the Norwegian state.\n\nThe indigenous Sami population is a mostly urbanised demographic, but a substantial number live in villages in the high arctic. The Sami are still coping with the cultural consequences of language and culture loss related to generations of Sami children taken to missionary and/or state-run boarding schools and the legacy of laws that were created to deny the Sami rights (e.g., to their beliefs, language, land and to the practice of traditional livelihoods). The Sami are experiencing cultural and environmental threats, including oil exploration, mining, dam building, logging, climate change, military bombing ranges, tourism and commercial development.\nSapmi is rich in precious metals, oil, and natural gas. Mining activities in Arctic Sapmi cause controversy when they are in grazing and calving areas. Mining projects are rejected by the Sami Parliament in the Finnmark area. The Sami Parliament demands that resources and mineral exploration should benefit mainly the local Sami communities and population, as the proposed mines are in Sami lands and will affect their ability to maintain their traditional livelihood. Mining locations even include ancient Sami spaces that are designated as ecologically protected areas, such as the Vindelfjällen Nature Reserve. In Russia's Kola Peninsula, vast areas have already been destroyed by mining and smelting activities, and further development is imminent. This includes oil and natural gas exploration in the Barents Sea. There is a gas pipeline that stretches across the Kola Peninsula. Oil spills affect fishing and the construction of roads. Power lines may cut off access to reindeer calving grounds and sacred sites.\n\nIn Kallak (Sami: Gállok) a group of indigenous and non-indigenous activists protested to stop the UK-based mining company Beowulf from carrying on a drilling program in reindeer winter grazing lands. There is often local opposition to new mining projects where environmental impacts are perceived to be very large. New modern mines eliminate the need for many types of jobs and new job creation. ILO Convention No. 169 would grant rights to the Sami people to their land and give them power in matters that affect their future. Swedish taxes on minerals are low in an international comparison in order to increase mineral exploration. There are also few plans for mine reclamation.\n\nIn northern Finland, there has been a longstanding dispute over the destruction of forests, which prevents reindeer from migrating between seasonal feeding grounds and destroys supplies of lichen that grow on the upper branches of older trees. This lichen is the reindeer's only source of sustenance during the winter months, when snow is deep. The logging has been under the control of the state-run forest system. Greenpeace, reindeer herders, and Sami organisations carried out a historic joint campaign, and in 2010, Sami reindeer herders won some time as a result of these court cases. Industrial logging has now been pushed back from the most important forest areas either permanently or for the next 20 years, though there are still threats, such as mining and construction plans of holiday resorts on the protected shorelines of Lake Inari.\n\nGovernment authorities and NATO have built bombing-practice ranges in Sami areas in northern Norway and Sweden. These regions have served as reindeer calving and summer grounds for thousands of years, and contain many ancient Sami sacred sites.\n\nThe Swedish government has allowed the world's largest onshore wind farm to be built in Piteå, in the Arctic region where the Eastern Kikkejaure village has its winter reindeer pastures. The wind farm will consist of more than 1,000 wind turbines and an extensive road infrastructure, which means that the feasibility of using the area for winter grazing in practice is impossible. Sweden has received strong international criticism, including by the UN Racial Discrimination Committee and the Human Rights Committee, that Sweden violates Sami \"landrättigheter\" (land rights), including by not regulating industry. In Norway some Sami politicians (for example - Aili Keskitalo) suggest giving the Sami Parliament a special veto right on planned mining projects.\n\nState regulation of sea fisheries underwent drastic change in the late 1980s. The regulation linked quotas to vessels and not to fishers. These newly calculated quotas were distributed free of cost to larger vessels on the basis of the amount of the catch in previous years, resulting in small vessels in Sami districts falling outside the new quota system to a large degree.\n\nThe Sami recently stopped a water-prospecting venture that threatened to turn an ancient sacred site and natural spring called Suttesaja into a large-scale water-bottling plant for the world market—without notification or consultation with the local Sami people, who make up 70 percent of the population. The Finnish National Board of Antiquities has registered the area as a heritage site of cultural and historical significance, and the stream itself is part of the Deatnu/Tana watershed, which is home to Europe's largest salmon river, an important source of Sami livelihood.\n\nIn Norway, government plans for the construction of a hydroelectric power plant in the Alta river in Finnmark in northern Norway led to a political controversy and the rallying of the Sami popular movement in the late 1970s and early 1980s. As a result, the opposition in the Alta controversy brought attention to not only environmental issues but also the issue of Sami rights.\n\nReindeer have major cultural and economic significance for indigenous peoples of the North. The human-ecological systems in the North, like reindeer pastoralism, are sensitive to change, perhaps more than in virtually any other region of the globe, due in part to the variability of the Arctic climate and ecosystem and the characteristic ways of life of indigenous Arctic peoples.\n\nThe 1986 Chernobyl nuclear disaster caused nuclear fallout in the sensitive Arctic ecosystems and poisoned fish, meat and berries. Lichens and mosses are two of the main forms of vegetation in the Arctic and are highly susceptible to airborne pollutants and heavy metals. Since many do not have roots, they absorb nutrients, and toxic compounds, through their leaves. The lichens accumulated airborne radiation, and 73,000 reindeer had to be destroyed as \"unfit\" for human consumption in Sweden alone. The government promised Sami indemnification, which was not acted upon by government.\n\nRadioactive wastes and spent nuclear fuel have been stored in the waters off the Kola Peninsula, including locations that are only \"two kilometers\" from places where Sami live. There are a minimum of five \"dumps\" where spent nuclear fuel and other radioactive waste are being deposited in the Kola Peninsula, often with little concern for the surrounding environment or population.\n\nThe tourism industry in Finland has been criticized for turning Sami culture into a marketing tool by promoting opportunities to experience \"authentic\" Sami ceremonies and lifestyle. At many tourist locales, non-Samis dress in inaccurate replicas of Sami traditional clothing, and gift shops sell crude reproductions of Sami handicraft. One popular \"ceremony\", crossing the Arctic Circle, actually has no significance in Sami spirituality. To the Sami, this is an insulting display of cultural exploitation.\n\nThe Sami have for centuries been the subject of discrimination and abuse by the dominant cultures claiming possession of their lands right unto the present day. They have never been a single community in a single region of Lapland, which until recently was considered only a cultural region.\n\nNorway has been greatly criticized by the international community for the politics of Norwegianization of and discrimination against the aboriginal population of the country. On 8 April 2011, the UN Racial Discrimination Committee recommendations were handed over to Norway; these addressed many issues, including the educational situation for students needing bilingual education in Sami. One committee recommendation was that no language be allowed to be a basis for discrimination in the Norwegian anti-discrimination laws, and it recommended wording of Racial Discrimination Convention Article 1 contained in the Act. Further points of recommendation concerning the Sami population in Norway included the incorporation of the racial Convention through the Human Rights Act, improving the availability and quality of interpreter services, and equality of the civil Ombudsman's recommendations for action. A new present status report was to have been ready by the end of 2012.\n\nEven in Finland, where Sami children, like all Finnish children, are entitled to day care and language instruction in their own language, the Finnish government has denied funding for these rights in most of the country, including even in Rovaniemi, the largest municipality in Finnish Lapland. Sami activists have pushed for nationwide application of these basic rights.\n\nAs in the other countries claiming sovereignty over Sami lands, Sami activists' efforts in Finland in the 20th century achieved limited government recognition of the Samis' rights as a recognized minority, but the Finnish government has maintained its legally enforced premise that the Sami must \"prove\" their land ownership, an idea incompatible with and antithetical to the traditional reindeer-herding Sami way of life. This has effectively allowed the Finnish government to take without compensation, motivated by economic gain, land occupied by the Sami for centuries.\n\nThe Sami have been recognized as an indigenous people in Norway (1990 according to ILO convention 169 as described below), and hence, according to international law, the Sami people in Norway are entitled special protection and rights. The legal foundation of the Sami policy is:\n\nThe constitutional amendment states: \"It is the responsibility of the authorities of the State to create conditions enabling the Sami people to preserve and develop its language, culture and way of life.\" This provides a legal and political protection of the Sami language, culture and society. In addition the \"amendment implies a legal, political and moral obligation for Norwegian authorities to create an environment conducive to the Samis themselves influencing on the development of the Sami community\" (ibid.).\n\nThe Sami Act provides special rights for the Sami people (ibid.):\nIn addition, the Sami have special rights to reindeer husbandry.\n\nThe Norwegian Sami Parliament also elects 50% of the members to the board of the Finnmark Estate, which controls 95% of the land in the county of Finnmark.\n\nNorway has also accepted international conventions, declarations and agreements applicable to the Sami as a minority and indigenous people including:\n\nIn 2007, the Norwegian Parliament passed the new Reindeer Herding Act acknowledging siida as the basic institution regarding land rights, organization, and daily herding management.\n\nThe Sametingslag was established as the Swedish Sami Parliament as of 1 January 1993. Sweden recognised the existence of the \"Sami nation\" in 1989, but the ILO Indigenous and Tribal Peoples Convention, C169 has not been adopted.\n\nThe Compulsory School Ordinance states that Sami pupils are entitled to be taught in their native language; however, a municipality is obliged to arrange mother-tongue teaching in Sami only if a suitable teacher is available and the pupil has a basic knowledge of Sami.\n\nIn 2010, after 14 years of negotiation, Laponiatjuottjudus, an association with Sami majority control, will govern the UNESCO World Heritage Site Laponia. The reindeer-herding law will apply in the area as well.\n\nIn 1998, Sweden formally apologized for the wrongs committed against the Sami.\n\nSami is one of five national minority languages recognized by Swedish law.\n\nThe act establishing the Finnish Sami Parliament (Finnish: Saamelaiskäräjät) was passed on November 9, 1973.\nFinland recognized the Sami as a \"people\" in 1995, but they have yet to ratify ILO Convention 169 Concerning Indigenous and Tribal Peoples.\nFinland ratified the 1966 U.N. Covenant on Civil and Political Rights though several cases have been brought before the U.N. Human Rights Committee. Of those, 36 cases involved a determination of the rights of individual Sami in Finland and Sweden. The committee decisions clarify that Sami are members of a minority within the meaning of Article 27 and that deprivation or erosion of their rights to practice traditional activities that are an essential element of their culture do come within the scope of Article 27. The case of J. Lansman versus Finland concerned a challenge by Sami reindeer herders in northern Finland to the Finnish Central Forestry Board's plans to approve logging and construction of roads in an area used by the herdsmen as winter pasture and spring calving grounds.\n\nFinland Sami have had access to Sami language instruction in some schools since the 1970s, and language rights were established in 1992. There are three Sami languages spoken in Finland: North Sami, Skolt Sami and Inari Sami. Of these languages, Inari Sami, which is spoken by about 350 speakers, is the only one that is used entirely within the borders of Finland, mainly in the municipality of Inari.\n\nFinland has denied any aboriginal rights or land rights to the Sami people; in Finland, non-Sami can herd reindeer.\n\nSami people have had very little representation in Finnish national politics. In fact, as of 2007, Janne Seurujärvi, a Finnish Centre Party representative, was the first Sami ever to be elected to the Finnish Parliament.\n\nRussia has not adopted the ILO Indigenous and Tribal Peoples Convention, C169. During the Soviet times the inhabitants of the Kola tundra were forcibly relocated to kolkhoz'es (collective communities) by the state; most Saami were settled at Lujávri (Lovozero).\n\nThe 1822 Statute of Administration of Non-Russians in Siberia asserted state ownership over all the land in Siberia and then \"granted\" possessory rights to the natives. Governance of indigenous groups, and especially collection of taxes from them, necessitated protection of indigenous peoples against exploitation by traders and settlers.\n\nThe 1993 Constitution, Article 69 states, \"The Russian Federation guarantees the rights of small indigenous peoples in accordance with the generally accepted principles and standards of international law and international treaties of the Russian Federation.\" For the first time in Russia, the rights of indigenous minorities were established in the 1993 Constitution.\n\nThe Russian Federation ratified the 1966 U.N. Covenant on Civil and Political Rights; Section 2 explicitly forbids depriving a people of \"its own means of subsistence.\" The Russian parliament (Duma) has adopted partial measures to implement it.\n\nThe Russian Federation lists distinct indigenous peoples as having special rights and protections under the Constitution and federal laws and decrees. These rights are linked to the category known since Soviet times as the \"malochislennye narody\" (\"small-numbered peoples\"), a term that is often translated as \"indigenous minorities\", which include Arctic peoples such as the Sami, Nenets, Evenki, and Chukchi.\n\nIn April 1999, the Russian Duma passed a law that guarantees socio-economic and cultural development to all indigenous minorities, protecting traditional living places and acknowledging some form of limited ownership of territories that have traditionally been used for hunting, herding, fishing, and gathering activities. The law, however, does not anticipate the transfer of title in fee simply to indigenous minorities. The law does not recognize development rights, some proprietary rights including compensation for damage to the property, and limited exclusionary rights. It is not clear, however, whether protection of nature in the traditional places of inhabitation implies a right to exclude conflicting uses that are destructive to nature or whether they have the right to veto development.\n\nThe Russian Federation's Land Code reinforces the rights of numerically small peoples (\"indigenous minorities\") to use places they inhabit and to continue traditional economic activities without being charged rent. Such lands cannot be allocated for unrelated activities (which might include oil, gas, and mineral development or tourism) without the consent of the indigenous peoples. Furthermore, indigenous minorities and ethnic groups are allowed to use environmentally protected lands and lands set aside as nature preserves to engage in their traditional modes of land use.\n\nRegional law, Code of the Murmansk Oblast, calls on the organs of state power of the oblast to facilitate the native peoples of the Kola North, specifically naming the Sami, \"in realization of their rights for preservation and development of their native language, national culture, traditions and customs.\" The third section of Article 21 states: \"In historically established areas of habitation, Sami enjoy the rights for traditional use of nature and [traditional] activities.\"\nThroughout the Russian North, indigenous and local people have difficulties with exercising control over resources upon which they and their ancestors have depended for centuries. The failure to protect indigenous ways, however, stems not from inadequacy of the written law, but rather from the failure to implement existing laws. Unfortunately, violations of the rights of indigenous peoples continue, and oil, gas, and mineral development and other activities, (mining, timber cutting, commercial fishing, and tourism) that bring foreign currency into the Russian economy, prevail over the rule of law.\nThe life ways and economy of indigenous peoples of the Russian North are based upon reindeer herding, fishing, terrestrial and sea mammal hunting, and trapping. Many groups in the Russian Arctic are semi-nomadic, moving seasonally to different hunting and fishing camps. These groups depend upon different types of environment at differing times of the year, rather than upon exploiting a single commodity to exhaustion. Throughout northwestern Siberia, oil and gas development has disturbed pastureland and undermined the ability of indigenous peoples to continue hunting, fishing, trapping, and herding activities. Roads constructed in connection with oil and gas exploration and development destroy and degrade pastureland, ancestral burial grounds, and sacred sites and increase hunting by oil workers on the territory used by indigenous peoples.\nIn the Sami homeland on the Kola Peninsula in northwestern Russia, regional authorities closed a fifty-mile (eighty-kilometer) stretch of the Ponoi River (and other rivers) to local fishing and granted exclusive fishing rights to a commercial company offering catch-and-release fishing to sport fishers largely from abroad. This deprived the local Sami (see Article 21 of the Code of the Murmansk Oblast) of food for their families and community and of their traditional economic livelihood. Thus, closing the fishery to locals may have violated the test articulated by the U.N. Human Rights Committee and disregarded the Land Code, other legislative acts, and the 1992 Presidential decree. Sami are not only forbidden to fish in the eighty-kilometer stretch leased to the Ponoi River Company but are also required by regional laws to pay for licenses to catch a limited number of fish outside the lease area. Residents of remote communities have neither the power nor the resources to demand enforcement of their rights. Here and elsewhere in the circumpolar north, the failure to apply laws for the protection of indigenous peoples leads to \"criminalization\" of local indigenous populations who cannot survive without \"poaching\" resources that should be accessible to them legally.\n\nAlthough indigenous leaders in Russia have occasionally asserted indigenous rights to land and resources, to date there has been no serious or sustained discussion of indigenous group rights to ownership of land.\n\nOn 16 November 2005 in Helsinki, a group of experts, led by former Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of Norway Professor Carsten Smith, submitted a proposal for a Nordic Sami Convention to the annual joint meeting of the ministers responsible for Sami affairs in Finland, Norway and Sweden and the presidents of the three Sami Parliaments from the respective countries. This convention recognizes the Sami as one indigenous people residing across national borders in all three countries. A set of minimum standards is proposed for the rights of developing the Sami language and culture and rights to land and water, livelihoods and society. The convention has not yet been ratified in the Nordic countries.\n\nTo make up for past suppression, the authorities of Norway, Sweden and Finland now make an effort to build up Sami cultural institutions and promote Sami culture and language.\n\nDuodji, the Sami handicraft, originates from the time when the Samis were self-supporting nomads, believing therefore that an object should first and foremost serve a purpose rather than being primarily decorative. Men mostly use wood, bone, and antlers to make items such as antler-handled scrimshawed sami knives, drums, and guksi (burl cups). Women used leather and roots to make items such as gákti (clothing), and birch- and spruce-root woven baskets.\n\nGakti are the traditional clothing worn by the Sámi people. The gákti is worn both in ceremonial contexts and while working, particularly when herding reindeer.\n\nTraditionally, the gákti was made from reindeer leather and sinews, but nowadays, it is more common to use wool, cotton, or silk. Women's gákti typically consist of a dress, a fringed shawl that is fastened with 1–3 silver brooches, and boots/shoes made of reindeer fur or leather. Boots can have pointed or curled toes and often have band-woven ankle wraps. Eastern Sami boots have a rounded toe on reindeer-fur boots, lined with felt and with beaded details. There are different gákti for women and men; men's gákti have a shorter \"jacket-skirt\" than a women's long dress. Traditional gákti are most commonly in variations of red, blue, green, white, medium-brown tanned leather, or reindeer fur. In winter, there is the addition of a reindeer fur coat and leggings, and sometimes a poncho (luhkka) and rope/lasso.\n\nThe colours, patterns and the jewellery of the gákti indicate where a person is from, if a person is single or married, and sometimes can even be specific to their family. The collar, sleeves and hem usually have appliqués in the form of geometric shapes. Some regions have ribbonwork, others have tin embroidery, and some Eastern Sami have beading on clothing or collar. Hats vary by sex, season, and region. They can be wool, leather, or fur. They can be embroidered, or in the East, they are more like a beaded cloth crown with a shawl. Some traditional shamanic headgear had animal hides, plaits, and feathers, particularly in East Sapmi.\n\nThe gákti can be worn with a belt; these are sometimes band-woven belts, woven, or beaded. Leather belts can have scrimshawed antler buttons, silver concho-like buttons, tassles, or brass/copper details such as rings. Belts can also have beaded leather pouches, antler needle cases, accessories for a fire, copper rings, amulets, and often a carved and/or scrimshawed antler handled knife. Some Eastern Sami also have a hooded jumper (малиц) from reindeer skins with wool inside and above the knee boots.\n\n\nA characteristic feature of Sami musical tradition is the singing of \"yoik\". Yoiks are song-chants and are traditionally sung \"a cappella\", usually sung slowly and deep in the throat with apparent emotional content of sorrow or anger. Yoiks can be dedicated to animals and birds in nature, special people or special occasions, and they can be joyous, sad or melancholic. They often are based on syllablic improvisation. In recent years, musical instruments frequently accompany yoiks. The only traditional Sami instruments that were sometimes used to accompany yoik are the \"fadno\" flute (made from reed-like Angelica archangelica stems) and hand drums (frame drums and bowl drums).\n\n\n\nIn addition to Duodji (Sami handicraft), there is a developing area of contemporary Sami visual art. Galleries such as Sámi Dáiddaguovddáš (Sami Center for Contemporary Art) are being established.\n\nFor many years there was a misconception that the Sámi were the only Indigenous people without a dance tradition in the world. Sami dance companies have emerged such as Kompani Nomad. A book about the \"lost\" Sami dance tradition called \"Jakten på den försvunna samiska dansen\" was recently published by Umeå University's Centre for Sami Research (CeSam). In the eastern areas of Sápmi the dance tradition has been more continuous and is continued by groups such as Johtti Kompani.\n\nReindeer husbandry has been and still is an important aspect of Sami culture. During the years of forced assimilation, the areas in which reindeer herding was an important livelihood were among the few where the Sami culture and language survived.\n\nToday in Norway and Sweden, reindeer husbandry is legally protected as an exclusive Sami livelihood, such that only persons of Sami descent with a linkage to a reindeer herding family can own, and hence make a living off, reindeer. Presently, about 2,800 people are engaged in reindeer herding in Norway. In Finland, reindeer husbandry is not exclusive and is practiced to a limited degree also by ethnic Finns. Legally, it is restricted to EU/EEA nationals resident in the area. In the north (Lapland), it plays a major role in the local economy, while its economic impact is lesser in the southern parts of the area (Province of Oulu).\n\nAmong the reindeer herders in Sami villages, the women usually have a higher level of formal education in the area.\n\nThe Sámi have traditionally played both card games and board games, but few Sámi games have survived, in part because Christian missionaries and Laestadianists considered such games sinful. Only the rules of three Sámi board games have been preserved into modern times. \"Sáhkku\" is a running-fight board game where each player controls a set of soldiers (referred to as \"women\" and \"men\") that races across a board in a loop, attempting to eliminate the other player's soldiers. The game is related to South Scandinavian daldøs, Arabian tâb and Indian tablan. Sáhkku differs from these games in several respects, most notably the addition of a piece - \"the king\" - that changes gameplay radically. \"Tablut\" is a pure strategy game in the tafl family. The game features \"Swedes\" and a \"Swedish king\" whose goal is to escape, and an army of \"Muscovites\" whose goal is to capture the king. Tablut is the only tafl game where a relatively intact set of rules have survived into our time. Hence, all modern versions of tafl (commonly called \"Hnefatafl\" and marketed exclusively as \"Norse\" or \"Viking\" games) are based on the Sámi game of tablut. \"Dablot Prejjesne\" is a game related to alquerque which differs from most such games (e.g. draughts) by having pieces of three different ranks. The game's two sides are referred to as \"Sámi\" (king, prince, warriors) and \"Finlenders\" (landowners, landowner's son, farmers).\n\nSápmi is the name of the cultural region traditionally inhabited by the Sami people. Non-Sami and many regional maps have often called this same region \"Lapland\" as there is considerable regional overlap between the two terms. The overlap is, however, not complete: \"Lapland\" covers only those parts of Sápmi that have fallen under Finnish jurisdiction, and most of the area having fallen under Swedish jurisdiction. The larger part of Sápmi is not covered by the term \"Lapland\". \"Lapland\" can be either misleading or offensive, or both, depending on the context and where this word is used, to the Sami. Among the Sami people, \"Sápmi\" is strictly used and acceptable.\n\nSápmi is located in Northern Europe, includes the northern parts of Fennoscandia and spans four countries: Norway, Sweden, Finland, and Russia.\n\nThere is no official geographic definition for the boundaries of Sápmi. However, the following counties and provinces are usually included:\n\nThe municipalities of Gällivare, Jokkmokk and Arjeplog in Swedish Lappland were designated a UNESCO World Heritage Site in 1996 as a \"Laponian Area\".\n\nThe Sami Domicile Area in Finland consists of the municipalities of Enontekiö, Utsjoki and Inari as well as a part of the municipality of Sodankylä.\n\nThe following towns and villages have a significant Sami population or host Sami institutions (Norwegian, Swedish, Finnish or Russian name in parentheses):\n\nIn the geographical area of Sápmi, the Sami are a small population. According to some, the estimated total Sami population is about 70,000. One problem when attempting to count the population of the Sámi is that there are few common criteria of what \"being a Sámi\" constitutes. In addition, there are several Sámi languages and additional dialects, and there are several areas in Sapmi where few of the Sami speak their native language due to the forced cultural assimilation, but still consider themselves Sami. Other identity markers are kinship (which can be said to, at some level or other, be of high importance for all Sámi), the geographical region of Sápmi where their family came from, and/or protecting or preserving certain aspects of Sami culture.\n\nAll the Nordic Sámi Parliaments have included as the \"core\" criterion for registering as a Sámi the identity in itself—one must declare that one truly considers oneself a Sámi. Objective criteria vary, but are generally related to kinship and/or language.\n\nStill, due to the cultural assimilation of the Sami people that had occurred in the four countries over the centuries, population estimates are difficult to measure precisely. The population has been estimated to be between 80,000 and 135,000 across the whole Nordic region, including urban areas such as Oslo, Norway, traditionally considered outside Sápmi. The Norwegian state recognizes any Norwegian as Sámi if he or she has one great-grandparent whose home language was Sámi, but there is not, and has never been, any registration of the home language spoken by Norwegian people.\n\nRoughly half of all Sámi live in Norway, but many live in Sweden, with smaller groups living in the far north of Finland and the Kola Peninsula of Russia. The Sámi in Russia were forced by the Soviet authorities to relocate to a collective called Lovozero/Lujávri, in the central part of the Kola Peninsula.\n\nThere is no single Sami language, but a group of ten distinct Sami languages. Six of these languages have their own written standards. The Sami languages are relatively closely related, but not mutually intelligible; for instance, speakers of Southern Sami cannot understand Northern Sami. Especially earlier, these distinct languages were referred to as \"dialects\", but today, this is considered misleading due to the deep differences between the varieties. Most Sami languages are spoken in several countries, because linguistic borders do not correspond to national borders.\n\nAll Sami languages are at some degree of endangerment, ranging from what UNESCO defines as \"definitely endangered\" to \"extinct\". This is due in part to historic laws prohibiting the use of Sami languages in schools and at home in Sweden and Norway. Sami languages, and Sami song-chants, called yoiks, were illegal in Norway from 1773 until 1958. Then, access to Sami instruction as part of schooling was not available until 1988. Special residential schools that would assimilate the Sami into the dominant culture were established. These were originally run by missionaries, but later, controlled by the government. For example, in Russia, Sami children were taken away when aged 1–2 and returned when aged 15–17 with no knowledge of their language and traditional communities. Not all Sami viewed the schools negatively, and not all of the schools were brutal. However, being taken from home and prohibited from speaking Sami has resulted in cultural alienation, loss of language, and lowered self-esteem.\n\nThe Sami languages belong to the Uralic language family, linguistically related to Finnish, Estonian, and Hungarian. Due to prolonged contact and import of items foreign to Sami culture from neighboring Scandinavians, there are a number of Germanic loanwords in Sami, particularly for \"urban\" objects. The majority of the Sami now speak the majority languages of the countries they live in, i.e., Swedish, Russian, Finnish and Norwegian. Efforts are being made to further the use of Sami languages among Sami and persons of Sami origin. Despite these changes, the legacy of cultural repression still exists. Many older Sami still refuse to speak Sami. In addition, Sami parents still feel alienated from schools and hence do not participate as much as they could in shaping school curricula and policy.\n\nIn Norway, the name of the language is samisk, and the name of the people is \"Same\"; in Finland, the name of the language is spelled \"saame\" and the name of the people \"saamelainen\".\n\nAmerican scientist Michael E. Krauss published in 1997 an estimate of Sami population and their languages.\n\nKemi Sami language became extinct in the 19th century.\n\nMany Sami do not speak any of the Sami languages any more due to historical assimilation policies, so the number of Sami living in each area is much higher.\n\nSápmi is traditionally divided into:\n\nIt should also be noted that many Sami now live outside Sápmi, in large cities such as Oslo in Norway.\n\nA division often used in Northern Sami is based on occupation and the area of living. This division is also used in many historical texts:\n\nAccording to the Norwegian Sami Parliament, the Sami population of Norway is 40,000. If all people who speak Sami or have a parent, grandparent, or great-grandparent who speaks or spoke Sami are included, the number reaches 70,000. As of 2005, 12,538 people were registered to vote in the election for the Sami Parliament in Norway. The bulk of the Sami live in Finnmark and Northern Troms, but there are also Sami populations in Southern Troms, Nordland and Trøndelag. Due to recent migration, it has also been claimed that Oslo is the municipality with the largest Sami population. The Sami are in a majority only in the municipalities of Guovdageaidnu-Kautokeino, Karasjohka-Karasjok, Porsanger, Deatnu-Tana and Unjargga-Nesseby in Finnmark, and Gáivuotna (Kåfjord) in Northern Troms. This area is also known as the Sami core area. Sami and Norwegian are equal as administrative languages in this area.\n\nIn Sweden and Norway, Sami are primarily Lutheran, in Finland and Russia they are orthodox Christians.\n\nAccording to the Swedish Sami Parliament, the Sami population of Sweden is about 20,000.\n\nAccording to the Finnish Population Registry Center and the Finnish Sami Parliament, the Sami population living in Finland was 7,371 in 2003. As of 31 December 2006, only 1776 of them had registered to speak one of the Sami languages as the mother tongue.\n\nAccording to the 2002 census, the Sami population of Russia was 1,991.\n\nSince 1926, the number of identified Sami in Russia has gradually increased:\n\n\nThere are an estimated 30,000 people living in North America who are either Sami, or descendants of Sami. Most have settled in areas that are known to have Norwegian, Swedish and Finnish immigrants. Some of these concentrated areas are Minnesota, North Dakota, Iowa, Wisconsin, the Upper Peninsula of Michigan, Illinois, California, Washington, Utah and Alaska; and throughout Canada, including Saskatchewan, Manitoba and Northern Ontario, and the Canadian territories of the Northwest Territories, Yukon, and the territory now known as Nunavut.\n\nDescendants of these Sami immigrants typically know little of their heritage because their ancestors purposely hid their indigenous culture to avoid discrimination from the dominating Scandinavian or Nordic culture. Though some of these Sami are diaspora that moved to North America in order to escape assimilation policies in their home countries, many continued to downplay their Sami culture in an internalization of colonial viewpoints about indigenous peoples and in order for them to try to blend into their respective Nordic cultures. There were also several Sami families that were brought to North America with herds of reindeer by the U.S. and Canadian governments as part of the \"Reindeer Project\" designed to teach the Inuit about reindeer herding. There is a long history of Sami in Alaska.\n\nSome of these Sami immigrants and descendants of immigrants are members of the Sami Siida of North America.\n\nSápmi demonstrates a distinct semi-national identity that transcends the borders between Norway, Sweden, Finland and Russia. There is no movement for complete autonomy.\n\nThe Sami Parliaments (\"Sámediggi\" in Northern Sami, \"Sämitigge\" in Inari Sami, \"Sää'mte'ǧǧ\" in Skolt Sami) founded in Finland (1973), Norway (1989) and Sweden (1993) are the representative bodies for peoples of Sami heritage. Russia has not recognized the Sami as a minority and, as a result, recognizes no Sami parliament, even if the Sami people there have formed an unrecognised Sami Parliament of Russia. There is no single, unified Sami parliament that spans across the Nordic countries. Rather, each of the aforementioned three countries has set up its own separate legislatures for Sami people, even though the three Sami Parliaments often work together on cross-border issues. In all three countries, they act as an institution of cultural autonomy for the indigenous Sami people. The parliaments have very weak political influence, far from autonomy. They are formally public authorities, ruled by the Scandinavian governments, but have democratically elected parliamentarians, whose mission is to work for the Sami people and culture. Candidates' election promises often get into conflict with the institutions' submission under their governments, but as authorities, they have some influence over the government.\n\nThe main organisations for Sami representation in Norway are the \"siidas\". They cover northern and central Norway.\n\nThe main organisations for Sami representation in Sweden are the \"siidas\". They cover northern and central Sweden.\n\nIn contrast to Norway and Sweden, in Finland, a \"siida\" (\"paliskunta\" in Finnish) is a reindeer-herding corporation that is not restricted by ethnicity. There are indeed some ethnic Finns who practice reindeer herding, and in principle, all residents of the reindeer herding area (most of Finnish Lapland and parts of Oulu province) who are citizens of EEA countries, i.e., the European Union and Norway, Iceland and Liechtenstein, are allowed to join a \"paliskunta\".\n\nIn 2010, the Sami Council supported the establishment of a cultural center in Russia for Arctic peoples. The Center for Northern Peoples aims to promote artistic and cultural cooperation between the Arctic peoples of Russia and the Nordic countries, with particular focus on indigenous peoples and minorities.\n\nSápmi, the Sami traditional lands, cross four national borders. Traditional summer and winter pastures sometimes lie on different sides of the borders of the nation-states. In addition to that, there is a border drawn for modern-day Sápmi. Some state that the rights (for reindeer herding and, in some parts, even for fishing and hunting) include not only modern Sápmi but areas that are beyond today's Sápmi that reflect older territories. Today's \"borders\" originate from the 14th to 16th centuries when land-owning conflicts occurred. The establishment of more stable dwelling places and larger towns originates from the 16th century and was performed for strategic defence and economic reasons, both by peoples from Sami groups themselves and more southern immigrants.\n\nOwning land within the borders or being a member of a \"siida\" (Sami corporation) gives rights. A different law enacted in Sweden in the mid-1990s gave the right to anyone to fish and hunt in the region, something that was met with skepticism and anger amongst the \"siidas\".\n\nCourt proceedings have been common throughout history, and the aim from the Sami viewpoint is to reclaim territories used earlier in history. Due to a major defeat in 1996, one \"siida\" has introduced a sponsorship \"Reindeer Godfather\" concept to raise funds for further battles in courts. These \"internal conflicts\" are usually conflicts between non-Sami land owners and reindeer owners. Cases question the Sami ancient rights to reindeer pastures. In 2010, Sweden was criticized for its relations with the Sami in the Universal Periodic Review conducted by the Working Group of the Human Rights Council.\n\nThe question whether the fjeld's territory is owned by the governments (crown land) or by the Sami population is not answered.\n\nFrom an indigenous perspective, people \"belong to the land\", the land does not belong to people, but this does not mean that hunters, herders, and fishing people do not know where the borders of their territories are located as well as those of their neighbors.\n\nAlthough the Sami have considered themselves to be one people throughout history, the idea of Sápmi, a Sami nation, first gained acceptance among the Sami in the 1970s, and even later among the majority population. During the 1980s and 1990s, a flag was created, a national song was written, and the date of a national day was settled.\n\nThe Sami flag was inaugurated during the Sami Conference in Åre, Sweden, on 15 August 1986. It was the result of a competition for which many suggestions were entered. The winning design was submitted by the artist Astrid Båhl from Skibotn, Norway.\n\nThe motif (shown right) was derived from the shaman's drum and the poem \"Paiven parneh\" (\"Sons of the Sun\") by the South Sami Anders Fjellner describing the Sami as sons and daughters of the sun. The flag has the Sami colours, red, green, yellow and blue, and the circle represents the sun (red) and the moon (blue).\n\nThe Sami National Day falls on February 6 as this date was when the first Sami congress was held in 1917 in Trondheim, Norway. This congress was the first time that Norwegian and Swedish Sami came together across their national borders to work together to find solutions for common problems. The resolution for celebrating on 6 February was passed in 1992 at the 15th Sami congress in Helsinki. Since 1993, Norway, Sweden and Finland have recognized February 6 as Sami National Day.\n\n\"Sámi soga lávlla\" (\"Song of the Sami People\", lit. \"Song of the Sami Family\") was originally a poem written by Isak Saba that was published in the newspaper \"Sagai Muittalægje\" for the first time on 1 April 1906. In August 1986, it became the national anthem of the Sami. Arne Sørli set the poem to music, which was then approved at the 15th Sami Conference in Helsinki in 1992. \"Sámi soga lávlla\" has been translated into all of the Sami languages.\n\nWidespread Shamanism persisted among the Sami up until the 18th century. Most Sami today belong to the state-run Lutheran churches of Norway, Sweden and Finland. Some Sami in Russia belong to the Russian Orthodox Church, and similarly, some Skolt Sami resettled in Finland are also part of an Eastern Orthodox congregation, with an additional small population in Norway.\n\nTraditional Sami religion was a type of polytheism. (See Sami deities.) There was some diversity due to the wide area that is Sápmi, allowing for the evolution of variations in beliefs and practices between tribes. The old beliefs are closely connected to the land, animism, and the supernatural. Sami spirituality is often characterized by pantheism, a strong emphasis on the importance of personal spirituality and its interconnectivity with one's own daily life, and a deep connection between the natural and spiritual \"worlds\". Among other roles, the Sami Shaman, or noaidi, enabled ritual communication with the supernatural through the use of tools such as drums, chants, and sacred objects. Some practices within the Old Sami religion included natural sacred sites such as mountains, springs, land formations, as well as man-made ones such as petroglyphs and labyrinths.\n\nThe Sami cosmology divides the universe into three worlds. The upper world is related to the South, warmth, life, and the color white. It is also the dwelling of the gods. The middle world is like the Norse Midgard, it is the dwelling of humans and it is associated with the color red. The third world is the underworld and it is associated with the color black, it represents the north, the cold and it is inhabited by otters, loons, and seals and mythical animals.\n\nSami religion shared some elements with Norse mythology, possibly from early contacts with trading Vikings (or vice versa). Through a mainly French initiative from Joseph Paul Gaimard as part of his La Recherche Expedition, Lars Levi Læstadius began research on Sami mythology. His work resulted in Fragments of Lappish Mythology, since by his own admission, they contained only a small percentage of what had existed. The fragments were termed \"Theory of Gods\", \"Theory of Sacrifice\", \"Theory of Prophecy, or short reports about rumorous Sami magic\" and \"Sami sagas\". Generally, he claims to have filtered out the Norse influence and derived common elements between the South, North, and Eastern Sami groups. The mythology has common elements with other traditional indigenous religions as well—such as those in Siberia and North America.\n\nThe term \"Sami religion\" usually refers to the traditional religion, practiced by most Sámi until approximately the 18th century. Christianity was introduced by Roman Catholic missionaries as early as the 13th century. Increased pressure came after the Protestant Reformation, and rune drums were burned or sent to museums abroad. In this period, many Sami practiced their traditional religion at home, while going to church on Sunday. Since the Sami were considered to possess \"witchcraft\" powers, they were often accused of sorcery during the 17th century and were the subjects of witchcraft trials and burnings.\n\nIn Norway, a major effort to convert the Sami was made around 1720, when Thomas von Westen, the \"Apostle of the Sami\", burned drums, burned sacred objects, and converted people. Out of the estimated thousands of drums prior to this period, only about 70 are known to remain today, scattered in museums around Europe. Sacred sites were destroyed, such as sieidi (stones in natural or human-built formations), álda and sáivu (sacred hills), springs, caves and other natural formations where offerings were made.\n\nIn the far east of the Sami area, the Russian monk Trifon converted the Sami in the 16th century. Today, St. George's chapel in Neiden, Norway (1565), testifies to this effort.\n\nAround 1840 Swedish Sami Lutheran pastor and administrator Lars Levi Laestadius initiated among the Sami a puritanical pietist movement emphasizing complete abstinence from alcohol. This movement is still very dominant in Sami-speaking areas. Laestadius spoke many languages, and he became fluent and preached in Finnish and Northern Sami in addition to his native Southern Sami and Swedish, the language he used for scholarly publications.\n\nTwo great challenges Laestadius had faced since his early days as a church minister were the indifference of his Sami parishioners, who had been forced by the Swedish government to convert from their shamanistic religion to Lutheranism, and the misery caused them by alcoholism. The spiritual understanding Laestadius acquired and shared in his new sermons \"filled with vivid metaphors from the lives of the Sami that they could understand, ... about a God who cared about the lives of the people\" had a profound positive effect on both problems. One account from a Sami cultural perspective recalls a new desire among the Sami to learn to read and a \"bustle and energy in the church, with people confessing their sins, crying and praying for forgiveness ... [Alcohol abuse] and the theft of [the Samis'] reindeer diminished, which had a positive influence on the Sami's relationships, finances and family life.\"\n\nToday there are a number of Sami who seek to return to the traditional Pagan values of their ancestors. There are also some Sami who claim to be \"noaidi\" and offer their services through newspaper advertisements, in New Age arrangements, or for tourist groups. While they practice a religion based on that of their ancestors, widespread anti-pagan prejudice has caused these shamans to be generally not viewed as part of an unbroken Sami religious tradition. Traditional Sámi beliefs are composed of three intertwining elements: animism, shamanism, and polytheism. Sámi animism is manifested in the Sámi's belief that all significant natural objects (such as animals, plants, rocks, etc.) possess a soul; and from a polytheistic perspective, traditional Sámi beliefs include a multitude of spirits. Many contemporary practitioners are compared to practitioners of neo-paganism, as a number of neopagan religions likewise combine elements of ancient pagan religions with more recent revisions or innovations, but others feel they are attempting to revive or reconstruct indigenous Sami religions as found in historic, folkloric sources and oral traditions.\n\nIn 2012, County Governor of Troms approved Shamanic Association of Tromsø as a new religion.\n\nA very different religious idea is represented by the numerous \"wise men\" and \"wise women\" found throughout the Sami area. They often offer to heal the sick through rituals and traditional medicines and may also combine traditional elements, such as older Sami teachings, with newer monotheistic inventions that Christian missionaries taught their ancestors, such as readings from the Bible.\n\nAnthropologists have been studying the Sami people for hundreds of years for their assumed physical and cultural differences from the rest of the Europeans. Recent genetic studies have indicated that the two most frequent maternal lineages of the Sámi people are the haplogroups V and U5b, ancient in Europe. \"The Y-chromosomal variety in the Saami is also consistent with their European ancestry. It suggests that the large genetic separation of the Saami from other Europeans is best explained by assuming that the Saami are descendants of a narrow, distinctive subset of Europeans.\" Other haplogroups suggest additional input from other populations at various times. This tallies with archeological evidence suggesting that several different cultural groups made their way to the core area of Sami from 8000 to 6000 BC, presumably including some of the ancestors of present-day Sami.\n\nThe genetic makeup of Sami people has been extensively studied for as long as such research has been in existence. Ethnographic photography of the Sami began with the invention of the camera in the 19th century. This continued on into the 1920s and 1930s, when Sami were photographed naked and anatomically measured by scientists, with the help of the local police—sometimes at gunpoint—to collect data that would justify their own racial theories. Thus, there is a degree of distrust by some in the Sami community towards genetic research.\n\nExamples of discriminatory actions include the Statens Institut for Rasbiologi compulsory sterilization project for Sami women, which continued until 1975, and Sami graves being plundered to provide research materials, of which their remains and artifacts from this period from across Sápmi can still be found in various state collections. In the late 19th century, colonial fascination with Arctic peoples led to human beings exhibited in human zoos. Sami people were exhibited with their traditional lavvu tents, weapons, and sleds, beside a group of reindeer at Tierpark Hagenbeck and other zoos across the globe.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10404613", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10404613", "title": "Shauntay Henderson", "text": "Shauntay Henderson\n\nShauntay L. Henderson (born October 18, 1982) is an American woman in prison. She was a wanted fugitive apprehended on March 31, 2007 by the FBI after serving less than 24 hours on the FBI's Ten Most Wanted Fugitives list. A reward of $100,000 for information leading to her arrest was offered.\n\nHenderson grew up in the Charlie Parker Square public housing project in Kansas City, Missouri.\n\nPolice have suspected Henderson was involved in as many as five other murders and a number of other shootings. However, no other charges have been filed.\n\nOn September 2, 2006, Henderson shot and killed DeAndre Parker at a gas station in Kansas City, Missouri. Henderson claimed Parker was trying to run her over with his truck. A jury acquitted Henderson of murder charges but found her guilty of the lesser charge of voluntary manslaughter and armed criminal action.\n\nThe Kansas City Police Department claimed that Henderson was a leader of the violent 12 Street gang who associated with gangs from 24th street through 27th, 51st, and 57th Street. Their alliance was titled \"512\", \"5 ace 2\", or \"5 ace deuce\". However, the claims of the police were never substantiated. At trial, Henderson denied any involvement with gangs.\n\nIn May 2012, Henderson was sentenced to serve 10 years in prison for the 2006 manslaughter conviction for which she had previously been sentenced to probation. This sentence of 10 years will run consecutively to her seven-year federal sentence for the charge of being a felon in possession of a weapon so she will spend a total of 17 years in prison.\n\nOn October 27, 2011, Henderson pleaded guilty to felonious possession of a firearm. In April 2012, Henderson was sentenced to seven years in federal prison without parole.\n\n"}
{"id": "2561377", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2561377", "title": "Shiksa", "text": "Shiksa\n\nShiksa () is an often disparaging term for a non-Jewish woman or girl. The word, which is of Yiddish origin, has moved into English usage (as well as Polish and German), mostly in North American Jewish culture, as According to the \"Oxford English Dictionary\", it came into English usage in the late 19th century from the Yiddish \"shikse\", which is an adaptation of the Hebrew word \"šiqṣâ\", which is derived from \"sheqeṣ\" (\"a detested thing\") and the feminine suffix \"-â\".\n\nAmong Orthodox Jews, the term may be used to describe a Jewish girl or woman who fails to follow Orthodox religious precepts.\n\nThe equivalent term for a non-Jewish male, used less frequently, is shegetz.\n\nWriter Menachem Kaiser argues in his essay \"Anti-non-Semitism: An Investigation of the Shiksa\" that \"the pejorative connotation of 'shiksa' is fuzzy at best\" because \"'shiksa' today is used as often as not in winking self-reference\".\n\nThe etymology of the word \"shiksa\" is partly derived from the Hebrew term שקץ \"shekets\", meaning \"abomination\", \"impure,\" or \"object of loathing\", depending on the translator.\n\nSeveral dictionaries define \"shiksa\" as a disparaging and offensive term applied to a non-Jewish girl or woman. In 2014, Rabbi Jack Abramowitz described it as \"simply indefensible\", \"inherently condescending, racist and misogynistic\".\n\nIn Polish, \"siksa\" or () is a pejorative but humorous word for an immature young girl or teenage girl. According to Polish language dictionary from 1915, it has been defined as \"pisspants\"; a conflation between the Yiddish term and its similarity to the Polish verb \"sikać\" (\"to piss\"). In today's language however, it is roughly equivalent to the English terms \"snot-nosed brat\", \"little squirt\", and \"naughty school-girl\" in a humorous context.\n\n"}
{"id": "20603700", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20603700", "title": "Unequal Childhoods", "text": "Unequal Childhoods\n\nUnequal Childhoods: Class, Race, and Family Life is a 2003 non-fiction book by American sociologist Annette Lareau based upon a study of 88 African American, and white families (of which only 12 were discussed) to understand the impact of how social class makes a difference in family life, more specifically in children's lives. The book argues that regardless of race, social economic class will determine how children cultivate skills they will use in the future. In the second edition, Lareau revisits the subjects from the original study a decade later in order to examine the impact of social class on the transition to adulthood. She covers the subjects' awareness of their social class, high school experiences and the effect of organized activities as they went through their adolescent years. She emphasizes the use of concerted cultivation, and natural growth as tools parents in different social and economic classes use in order to raise their children and by continuing her research ten years later she is able to show how these methods of child rearing helped to cultivate the children into the adults they are today.\n\nAfter her initial fieldwork was completed, Lareau returned to the families featured in her book to examine the pathways each of their lives had followed and to determine if her original research conclusions that class influences educational and work outcomes held true. In most cases, they did. The majority of the poorer, working class participants had either dropped out of high school or not attended post-secondary institutions, or if they had, had not completed their courses. Many were working in jobs that did not require a college degree and had already been working full-time for several years, some had children and car payments to support. Some even gave money back to their parents as rent, for example, if they still lived at home. This made them appear older than the middle class participants who generally had less work experience, and the majority of whom had attended college after going through an extensive preparatory process of investigating various institutions and receiving much greater support and involvement of their parents in making their decision, both about the college to attend and the courses to take. The middle class youth were more likely to be in courses that would lead to professional type occupations like business, medicine and law.\n\nLareau found her earlier conclusions remained true: social class and parenting approaches significantly impacted educational and work outcomes. Middle-class families had financial and knowledge resources that working-class families did not, and that was most visible as students worked their way through high school either successfully or not, and even more so when it came time to make decisions about attending college, what institution to attend and what courses to take. Middle-class parents took a different approach to interventions in their children’s lives than working-class parents and continued to play this support role and supervise as their children aged whereas working-class parents tended to stop once their children were 16–18 years old and it was felt they were old enough to make their own decisions. Lareau comments in a lecture captured on YouTube https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2xq_iCMgP2Q that, “their lives had diverged in a profound way.” Unequal Childhoods encourages us to better understand the impact social class has on our educational and life choices as such decisions as who we will marry, where we will live and how we find jobs are influenced by social class and the advantages it may or may not bring.\n\nLareau and her graduate researchers followed these families around in their daily lives. They attended sporting events, spent the night in the family's home, and attended a doctor's visit to observe the differences between the working- and lower-class families, and middle-class families. During her observations, she notices two different parenting styles.\n\nIn her follow-up with families ten years later, Lareau admits that the ideal study would have involved on-going participant observation, but that was not feasible given the resources and time investment of the families that would have required. Instead, she conducted two hour recorded interviews with each of the twelve children, and had separate interviews with each of the mothers, fathers and siblings that agreed to be interviewed. Some declined.\nIn response to the second edition of the book, critics continue to comment on the limitations of this study given its small sample size, while applying broad theoretical conclusions to North American society. Lareau briefly addresses race factors having an influence on outcomes for youth, but claims the class factors play a more significant role.\n\nAnnette Lareau distinguishes between two different parenting styles: Concerted Cultivation and the Accomplishment of Natural Growth.\n\nConcerted Cultivation: The parenting style, favored by middle-class families, in which parents encourage negotiation and discussion and the questioning of authority, and enroll their children in extensive organized activity participation. This style helps children in middle-class careers, teaches them to question people in authority, develops a large vocabulary, and makes them comfortable in discussions with people of authority. However, it gives the children a sense of entitlement.\n\nAccomplishment of Natural Growth: The parenting style, favored by working-class and lower-class families, in which parents issue directives to their children rather than negotiations, encourage the following and trusting of people in authority positions, and do not structure their children's daily activities, but rather let the children play on their own. This method has benefits that prepare the children for a job in the \"working\" or \"poor-class\" jobs, teaches the children to respect and take the advice of people in authority, and allows the children to become independent at a younger age.\n\n\nConcerted cultivation\nMiddle class\nWorking class\nSocial class\n\n(https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2xq_iCMgP2Q)\n(https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iKZxmGFo118)\n\n"}
{"id": "18171304", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18171304", "title": "University Club of Chicago", "text": "University Club of Chicago\n\nThe University Club of Chicago is a private social club located at 76 East Monroe Street at the corner of Michigan Avenue & Monroe Street in downtown Chicago, Illinois. It received its charter in 1887, when a group of college friends, principally alumni of Harvard, Yale, and Princeton, founded the club hoping to further their collegial ties and enjoy intellectual pursuits.\n\nThough officially chartered in 1887 by university graduates for \"the promotion of literature and art, by establishing and maintaining a library, reading room and gallery of art, and by such other means as shall be expedient and proper for such purposes\", the University Club of Chicago's history begins in 1885 when a group of Harvard men formed an association of college alumni in a similar fashion to the University Club of New York. The primary requirement of admission remains a college or university degree.\n\nThe club's first home was on the third and fourth floors of the Henning & Speed Building at 22 West Madison Street. The second club home was a stand-alone building at 30 North Dearborn. The first committee on literature and art was established in 1895, the library in 1897 with 1000 volumes. Honored guests included Admiral George Dewey (1900) and Winston Churchill (1901).\n\nThe club's present building, begun in 1907 and completed in 1909, is a historic landmark designed by notable architect Martin Roche, and is arguably the first \"gothic skyscraper\". At a cost of over $1,100,000, it was one of the most important club buildings of its day and continues to be an architecturally significant structure.\n\nThe club's centerpiece, Cathedral Hall, was based by Roche on Crosby Hall in London. It is adorned with stained glass windows by artist Frederic Clay Bartlett and seals representing distinguished universities in the United States and Europe, including Harvard, Yale, Princeton, Brown, Columbia and Northwestern. According to one writer:\n\nThere are other historically great interiors in town: Auditorium Theater of Adler & Sullivan and Mies van der Rohe's Crown Hall are only two of the first to come to mind. But among places where people convene to enjoy good food and companionship, I can think of no single room in this wonderfully composed and constructed city that is more stunning, that clears the sinuses more speedily or whips the viewer more persuasively into social attention than Martin Roche's Cathedral Hall.\n\nOther club facilities include: private dining rooms, restaurants, squash courts, bath department and pool, fitness facilities, library, business center, outdoor terrace, art gallery, and overnight accommodations available to members and their guests. The club has played a key role in the development of squash in Chicago and the U.S., including hosting the annual Windy City Open each year.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "803696", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=803696", "title": "Unusual types of gramophone records", "text": "Unusual types of gramophone records\n\nThe overwhelming majority of records manufactured have been of certain sizes (7, 10, or 12 inches), playback speeds (33, 45, or 78 RPM), and appearance (round black discs). However, since the commercial adoption of the gramophone record (called a phonograph record in the U.S., where both cylinder records and disc records were invented), a wide variety of records have also been produced that do not fall into these categories, and they have served a variety of purposes.\n\nThe most common diameter sizes for gramophone records are 12-inch, 10-inch, and 7-inch. Early American shellac records were all 7-inch until 1901, when 10-inch records were introduced. 12-inch records joined them in 1903. By 1910, other sizes were retired and nearly all discs were either 10-inch or 12-inch, although both sizes were normally a bit smaller than their official diameter. In Europe, early 10-inch and 12-inch shellac records were produced in the first three decades of the twentieth century. 7-inch children's records were sold before World War II but nearly all were made of fragile shellac, not an ideal material for use by children. In the late 1940s, small plastic records, including some small picture discs, replaced them. Ten-inch children's records were made as well, but the 7-inch size was more compatible with small hands. The 7-inch size was also used for flexi discs which were popular in Japan where they were known as sound-sheets and were often in traditional round format. In other areas, flexi discs were usually square and often included in a magazine (see Unusual materials and uses below).\n\nNumerous unusual diameters have been produced since the early 1900s ranging from 2 to 19.7 inches. Oddly shaped discs were also produced (see Unusually shaped discs below).\n\nThe most common rotational speeds for gramophone records are 33 revolutions per minute (RPM), 45 RPM, and 78 RPM. Established as the only common rotational speed prior to the 1940s, the 78 became increasingly less common throughout the 1950s and into more modern decades as the 33 and the 45 became established as the new standards for albums and singles respectively. Throughout the history of the recording industry, however, numerous unusual turn-speeds ranging from 3 to 130 RPM have been utilized for a variety of purposes.\n\nIn the early 1920s, the World Record Company in the U.K. introduced longer-playing records with speeds measured in inches per second (but specified on the label by a letter from A to D) rather than revolutions per minute. If the sound quality near the label of an ordinary record was considered acceptable, then playing time could be greatly increased by using that same groove-to-needle velocity throughout the recording. This is known as the CLV (constant linear velocity) format, as opposed to the usual CAV (constant angular velocity) format. The World Record Controller was an attachment for ordinary record players that slowed the turntable down when playing the outside of the record and allowed it to gradually speed up as the needle was carried inward by the groove. Of course, only special World records could be used. The World system was a commercial failure. The principle, first proposed in a fundamental U.S. sound recording patent in 1886, was briefly revived in 1939–1940 for the unusual \"Cinematone Penny Phono\" jukebox (price to play one selection: one cent), which used it to squeeze ten short recordings of current pop songs onto each side of one 12-inch record. Compact discs and DVDs use the CLV format to make efficient use of their surface areas.\n\nThe CLV format would reemerge in the 1940s and 1950s in office dictation machines known as the Gray Audograph and the CGS/Memovox, which combined it with the flexible-disc format and the inside-out recording format used by CDs today. Both machines recorded at a fixed pitch, but the Grey Audograph could only record at one linear speed allowing 15 minutes per side of a 7-inch disc. The CGS or Memovox, on the other hand, had a High Fidelity speed as well as a Speech speed, allowing over two hours of recording time per side on a 12-inch disc.\n\nIn the 1970s, Atlantic Records started producing a series of albums later designated on a label known as Syntonic Research. Each album consisted of two full-side tracks, usually at least half an hour long per side, of sounds recorded of various locations. For example, one side would have ocean waves crashing against the shore and the other would have the sounds of birds chattering away in an aviary; another record might have frogs, crickets and birds making their usual vocalizations that were heard in the early morning hours of a swamp or lake. There were a few dozen made. These were mostly used for soundscape or relaxation purposes. The first album in the series noted on its back cover that either side could be enjoyed in stereo at any playing speed (from 45 RPM to 16 RPM) depending on the effect desired by the person playing the record.\n\nA small number of 78 RPM microgroove vinyl recordings have been issued by smaller and underground performers, mainly as novelty items, from the 1970s to the present. In 2006, the Belfast singer Duke Special released a number of ten inch EPs in 78 RPM. A series of 78 RPM microgroove records was issued by the \"Audiophile\" label during the early LP era. They were supposed to provide higher quality sound than 33 RPM by virtue of their faster rotation speed combined while also providing significantly longer playing time than standard groove 78 RPM records.\n\nLP records rarely exceeded 45 minutes per disc (both sides), with a limit in the early years of 52 minutes, due to mastering issues. By the 1960s–1970s, some records began to exceed the 52-minute limitation, with single albums going to as long as 90 minutes in some cases. However, such records had to be cut with much narrower spacing between the grooves, which allowed for a much smaller amount of dynamic range on the records, and meant that playing the record with a worn needle could damage the record. It also resulted in a much quieter sound. Spoken word, comedy and sound effects albums, not having a wide range of musical instrumentation to reproduce, can be cut with much narrower spacing between the grooves resulting in lengths considerably in excess of 52 minutes. Materials distributed on 10-inch discs by the National Library Service for the Blind and Physically Handicapped in the 1960s, for instance, commonly reached 90 minutes per disc at 16 RPM and 180 minutes per disc at 8 RPM.\n\nA few examples of unusually long albums are listed below:\n\nThe vast majority of records used a standard small spindle hole slightly more than \" in diameter. The only common exception to this is the 7-inch 45 RPM record, which was designed with a center hole slightly more than 1.5\" in diameter both for convenience in handling and to accommodate a very fast record-changing mechanism contained inside a correspondingly large spindle, as implemented in RCA Victor's early stand-alone \"45\" players. The spindle and any records stacked on it rotated with the turntable, so that each waiting disc was already up to speed before it dropped. Large mechanized spindle adaptors were supplied with most multi-speed automatic record changers sold in the 1950s and 1960s, but they were not as fast and efficient. The large hole also facilitates use in jukeboxes, which mechanically place the \"45\" onto a turntable with a conical spindle having a matching diameter at its base, making the placement operation easier, safer, and surer than it was with the small-diameter holes and spindles in 78 RPM jukeboxes. Most 7-inch records in the USA continue to be pressed with a large hole, requiring an adaptor to be used on standard turntables. In other territories such as Europe, 7-inch records intended for home use have standard-sized holes. Many such 7-inch records had a center which could be easily snapped out, yielding a record with a larger hole to be used in jukeboxes or certain record-stacking players; this approach was common in the United Kingdom from the 1950s until the early 1980s, with standard, solid centres becoming gradually more common. Some 7-inch singles in the early-mid-1990s had large holes also, but this was a rarity.\n\nEarly on, some 78 RPM records had larger holes in freebie marketing schemes that sold a phonograph cheaply, but required purchase of compatible discs at full-price.\n\nSome records had more than one hole in the label area. Busy Bee, in a marketing scheme similar to Standard \"et al.\" would employ a second cut-out area. This allowed the Busy Bee disc to also be played on a standard phonograph in addition to the proprietary format sold by the O'Neill-James Company.\n\nMany blank acetate discs have multiple holes (usually three or four) intended to prevent slippage during cutting.\n\nNON's \"Pagan Muzak\" (Gray Beat, 1978) is a one-sided 7-inch with multiple locked grooves and two center holes, meaning each locked groove can be played at two different trajectories as well as any number of speeds. The original release came with instructions for the listener to drill more holes in the record as they saw appropriate.\n\nJanek Schaefer's \"On/Off LP\" is a one sided clear 12-inch record with one centered groove and one off-centre groove on the same side, designed to be played on Schaefer's multi arm Tri-Phonic Turntable, and Twin Turntable. The disc was cut using two holes, one for each track. Schaefer's Wow 7\" was also cut with two holes and one off centre track on the B side.\n\nDeveloped in the mid-1970s by the firm MDR (Magnetic Disc Recording), the record \"Trimicron\" was a notable success, although ephemeral. The principle was to remove the groove interval separating each turn at each turn. On average, this space corresponds to the space occupied by two furrows, and because of this, the removal of this space tripled the duration of the engraved recordings (on average 55 min on a face of 33 t). Originally intended for classical music lovers who could not stand to have to return their favorite LP to the middle of the recorded work, the process was presented by Dr. Rabe, a music lover in his spare time. Thus, for example, one can find all six Brandenburg concertos on one and the same 33 rounds. However, this revolutionary process still suffered from a major problem: a finer engraving which implied the decrease of the dynamics and the recorded signal of nearly 40 percent. It was therefore necessary to bring silent turntables and equipped with new diamonds and very high performance. The \"Triple Duration TRIMICRON\" discs are nowadays rare especially in good condition, their collection rating is increasing over time. A catalog of almost 30 TRIMICRON discs exists however, and rare are the copies still in very good state of listening these days\n\nSome records are cut with completely independent bands on the same side. In this case the bands appear as separate tracks on the record and are not intertwined as with parallel grooves (see below). This has most often been used on educational records but is also sometimes used on discs of commercial pop and rock music. These individual bands need not be cut at the same speed. The second Moby Grape album \"Wow/Grape Jam\" (1968) has this setup. Following the fourth song on side one there is a spoken announcement telling the listener to change the speed from 33 to 78 RPM to play the next band of the disc. To play the last song on the side the listener must pick up the stylus from the record, change the speed, then put the stylus at the start of the fifth and final song on side one.\n\nThe Gorillaz debut album, like the CD release, features the remix of \"Clint Eastwood\" as a bonus track but the LP has a recorded locked groove after what is meant to be the final track of the album so the needle has to be physically lifted and moved to play the bonus track.\n\nThis concept has been extended to the production of records consisting entirely of circular multiple bands to provide collections of infinite loop sound samples of duration limited to one revolution of the disc. Notable examples of this are the releases from RRRecords of the 7-inch RRR-100 (with 100 individual bands) and the 12-inch RRR-500 (with 500 bands) and RRR-1000 (with 1000 bands.)\n\nMost records have a locked groove at the end of each side or individual band. It is usually a silent loop that keeps the needle and tonearm from drifting into the label area. However, it is possible to record sound in this groove, and some artists have included looping audio in the locked groove.\n\nOne of the best-known examples of this technique was The Beatles' \"Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band\" (1967). Many UK copies featured a multi-layered collage of randomized chatter in their run-off loops. However, two variations were made: the original British pressing (black label with gold logo) has the \"inner groove\" play through the entire locked groove and does not include the laughter at the beginning of the piece. The re-issue of the British pressing (black label with silver logo) starts playing the \"inner groove\" long before the needle reaches the locked groove, includes the laughter and, once the needle hits the locked groove, the listener only hears the last two seconds of the piece played over and over again. The Who responded by putting a musical locked groove at the end of their 1967 album \"The Who Sell Out\".\n\nOn ABBA's album \"Super Trouper\", there is cheering and applause recorded before and on the locked groove of the B side, after \"The Way Old Friends Do\".\n\nOn The Format's album \"Dog Problems\", the feedback at the end of \"If Work Permits\" continues into the lock-groove, which repeats. Early copies of Pink Floyd's album \"Atom Heart Mother\" have the sound of a dripping tap repeating at the end of side two. The B-side of The Damned's single \"Love Song\" ends the song \"Suicide\" with an eternal yell in the lock-groove. Peter Gabriel's second album (also known as \"Scratch\"), The Boomtown Rats's album \"The Fine Art of Surfacing\", and the Dead Kennedys album \"Plastic Surgery Disasters\" also utilize the technique. Sonic Youth's 1986 album \"Evol\" contains a locked groove at the end of the final track, \"Expressway to yr. Skull (Madonna, Sean, and Me)\" and the track's length is indicated on the label as \"∞\".\n\nSan Francisco noise-punk band Flipper released a track on the B-side of their \"Sex Bomb\" single, called \"Brainwash\" which includes a use of the lock-groove concept. The song is a simple punk groove, with barely audible singing, lasting less than 30 seconds, over which one of the vocalists apparently attempts to tell a story, reciting the following: \"Umm ... okay, like. see there was this ... and ... w-and then the- ... nevermind, forget it, you wouldn't understand anyway.\" The music stops at the end of the \"story,\" only to start up again. This process is repeated for a total of 12 times. The last repetition ends with the loop groove endlessly repeating the phrase \"forget it, you wouldn't understa— forget it, you wouldn't understa—.\"\n\n\"Yer' Album\", the debut album by the James Gang has a locked groove at the end of each side, with the inner spiral on side one leading to the inner groove with the spoken phrase \"Turn me over,\" and the inner spiral of side two leading to the inner groove with the spoken phrase \"Play me again.\"\n\nOn the Ralph Records release \"Songs for Swinging Larvae\" by Renaldo and the Loaf, the last song on side one continues into the inner spiral and into the inner groove with a loop of a male voice providing a spoken percussion effect of \"boom boom crash crash,\" which, however, when it reaches the inner groove is not strictly in the same 4/4 rhythm, being more in 5/8 (\"boom boom crash crash [crash]\") This motif reappears (in strict 4/4 rhythm again) in the lead-in groove opening Side Two of the album, which then leads to the first selection on that side.\n\nOn the original vinyl release of \"Fly by Night\" by Rush, the chimes heard at the end of \"By-Tor & the Snow Dog\" continue into the locked groove.\n\nAnother example of recorded locked groove record is Godspeed You! Black Emperor's debut album \"F#A#∞\" (pronounced \"F-sharp, A-sharp, Infinity\"). At the end of the song \"Bleak, Uncertain, Beautiful ...\" there is a string phrase recorded on the locked groove. The title's \"infinity\" refers to this phrase. The Stereolab album \"Transient Random Noise Bursts With Announcements\" ends with the song \"Lock Groove Lullaby\" which, as the name suggests, extends into the locked groove. \"Nail\" by Scraping Foetus Off The Wheel (1985) features a recorded lock groove on the final song (\"Anything\") which results in the final note of the album slowly repeating itself. Portugal. The Man's 2008 album \"Censored Colors\" contains a locked groove at the end of the first disc repeating the words \"turn me over.\" The second side of the live King Crimson album \"USA\" has a locked groove that contains the first few seconds of applause after they finish playing \"21st Century Schizoid Man.\" The first Kissing the Pink album, \"Naked\", features a recorded locked groove at the end of side one which continuously plays the last note of \"The Last Film.\" The Otto Von Schirach album \"Pukology\" is pressed on two 7-inch colored discs (one yellow, one transparent brown), all four sides end in recorded locked grooves. One side ends with repeated burping, one side ends with repeated toilet flushing, one side ends with what sounds like tape/record scratching, and one side ends with repeated vomiting.\n\nThe Arcade Fire album \"The Suburbs\" ends side 3 with a continuous loop of the repeated piano chord heard throughout \"We Used to Wait.\"\n\nWelsh band Super Furry Animals released the album \"Rings Around The World\" as a 3-record set on Epic Records. Sides 1, 2 and 4 played normally. Side 3 played from the inside out and side 5 was on a 7-inch single. The side consisted of one recorded groove in the center of the record and was a perfectly timed loop of the music of a non-album song called \"All the Shit U Do.\"\n\nCanada's Legion Of Green Men took the art further creating several records and remixes containing what they called \"Eternal Opuscules\", rhythmic tunes and songs which would play seamlessly to a recorded locked groove at the end of a side.\n\nAn example of a live album with a locked groove is \"Eagles Live\": The applause at the end of side 4 would continue into the locked groove, rather than fading out like on the other sides.\n\nOn the 12 inch single of \"Spice\" released in 1990 by Eon, the locked groove at the end of the disc continues the instrumental lead-out of the track indefinitely as long as the DJ wished to let it play.\n\nThere are also many techno records featuring loops as recorded locked grooves, which will continuously repeat the beats and musical phrases, which can then be utilized by a DJ. \"Warp20\", the 20th anniversary box set from Warp Records, features two 10-inch locked groove albums, each containing 20 looped tracks from the record label's most popular artists. Both album sleeves contain correct turntable pitch speed settings for each track. Another example is Luke Slater's \"Diesel Drudge,\" from his 1994 EP \"Planetary Funk Vol 4\", which also ends in a locked groove. Speedy J's 2002 album \"Loudboxer\" was released on CD with 15 songs segued together, but the double LP version consists of 200 locked grooves, each with its own four-letter title.\n\nThe first known hit single to have a recorded locked groove is \"Muskrat Love\" by Captain & Tennille. A few years later, in December 1975, a British artist known as Chris Hill did a break-in record (see Dickie Goodman or Bill Buchanan) called, \"Renta Santa\" on Philips 6006-491 that included a recorded locked groove at the end of the side.\n\nWhen automatic record changers, auto replay adapters and jukeboxes began appearing in the 1920s the need arose to find a more reliable and forgiving way to accurately direct the stylus to the start of the recorded area as well as signal the end of a performance. Appearing near the outer edge of the record and leading the stylus inward to the performance, Decca introduced the lead-in groove in 1935 in the USA, with the industry following soon thereafter. Lead-in groove length, positioning and motion varied by manufacturer and era, some moving slower, some requiring several revolutions before encountering audio, while others being very short and jerky. As with the recorded locked groove at the end, it is possible to record sound into the lead-in groove. King Crimson's \"USA\" (mentioned above) has this feature. George Harrison's \"Wonderwall Music\" and the Dead Kennedys' \"Plastic Surgery Disasters\" also start in the lead-in groove. Many Telarc classical LP's began the music near the end of the lead-in groove to avoid pre-echo (caused by wide groove modulations following a number of closely spaced silent grooves).\n\nAlso known as concentric grooves, it is possible to master recordings with two or more separate, interlaced spiral grooves on a side. Such records have occasionally been made as novelties. Victor made one as early as 1901. Depending on where the needle is dropped in the lead-in area, it will catch more or less randomly in one of the grooves. Each groove can contain a different recording, so the record \"magically\" plays one of several different recordings. Victor marketed a couple of 10-inch 78s with two concentric grooves (called \"Puzzle Record\"). Columbia also issued a few 10-inch 78s in 1931 with concentric grooves for their cheap Harmony, Clarion, and Velvet Tone labels. In the blank edge of the record, there was a stamp 'A' and 'B', which indicated where each of the concentric grooves started.\n\nA 1950s RCA Victor 45 rpm single by The Fontane Sisters, \"The Fortune Teller Song\" offered a song with four different \"fortunes\" as endings. Due to the space consumed by the multiple grooves, the song itself played for only about one minute. In the 1960s, promoter George Garabedian of Mark 56 Records created a \"Magic Record\" which would randomly play a tune by Arthur Lyman, The Marathons' novelty song \"Peanut Butter,\" or an imitation Tijuana Brass number. Garabedian's records were made to be given away as premiums, usually by potato chip manufacturers. The opening track of Zacherle's 1962 LP \"Scary Tales\" consisted of three parallel grooves of the same song, each containing different lyrics (an assortment of humorous, macabre retellings of Mother Goose rhymes).\n\nIn 1975 Ronco UK released a parallel groove game called \"They're Off,\" which featured four 12-inch discs each containing eight possible outcomes on a horse race. It featured Noel Whitcomb, a well-known horse-racing commentator of the day and the game revolved around betting which \"horse\" would win the race on that occasion. This appears to have been based on a Canadian product called \"They're at the Post\" by Maas Marketing, which is more or less the same game with different recordings on the discs to reflect the target market. A promotional EP by Rush, \"Rush 'n Roulette\" (mentioned in the book \"Rare Rock: A Collector's Guide\" by Tony Rees) apparently had \"six\" parallel grooves of different Rush songs.\n\nA more recent example is Monty Python's \"Matching Tie and Handkerchief\". Also Tool's 1992 EP release \"Opiate\" featured on the second side a double groove that would either play the first track of side two or the hidden song that was found at the end of the CD version. The Marillion \"Brave\" vinyl has a double groove on side four, ending the album either happily with the track \"Made Again\" or less so with water noise. In 2005 a 7-inch single titled \"The Road Leads Where It's Led\" by The Secret Machines was released in UK that contained both tracks on one side on parallel grooves. The Summer 1980 \"Mad\" magazine Super Special included a one-sided sound sheet (see \"flexidisc\" above), playable on a standard turntable. It had eight interlaced grooves, each track starts with the same happy and upbeat \"Super Spectacular Day\" beginning of the song but have eight different dark and gloomy endings. In the 1980s, Rhino Records re-released the Henny Youngman comedy album \"128 Greatest Jokes\" as a series of concentric grooves, which they call a \"Trick-Track Master\". Each side of the album has four grooves. In the 1980s, the band Pink Slip Daddy released a 10-inch single called \"LSD\" on clear pink vinyl with pink glitter inside the vinyl. One side of the single had one song that played from inside out and, on the other side, there were two songs that were pressed as concentric grooves. Many of The Shins' 7-inch records have parallel grooves (such as their 2007 single \"Phantom Limb,\" which has \"Nothing at All\" and \"Split Needles (Alt. Version)\" on the b-side.) The band None of Your Fucking Business released a one-sided 7-inch called \"NOYFB Escapes from Hell\" (side 2 has a groove, but there is no audio encoded in the groove), with 2 grooves that started from the center and ended on the outside of the disc. One groove ran at 45 RPM, while the other ran at 33 RPM. UK punk rocker Johnny Moped's debut album \"Cycledelic\" has a lead track with a parallel groove listed on the label as \"0. Mystery Track,\" which runs parallel to the track. The 12-inch single for rap group De La Soul's 1989 song \"Me Myself and I\" has two different tracks in a parallel groove on the B-side. One groove has the Oblapos remixes of \"Me Myself and I,\" while the other has \"Brain Washed Follower.\"\n\nIn the late 1920s and early 1930s the Vitaphone sound system used large sixteen-inch 33 1/3 rpm records to provide the soundtrack for motion pictures. The record rotated in the usual clockwise direction but the groove was cut and played starting at the inside of the recorded area and proceeding outward. This inside start was dictated by the unusually long playing time of the records and the rapid wearing down of the single-use disposable metal needles which were standard for playing lateral-cut shellac records at that time. The signal degradation caused by a worn needle point was most audible when playing the innermost turns of the groove, where the undulations were most closely packed and tortuous, but fairly negligible when playing the outermost turns where they were much more widely spaced and easily traced. With an inside start the needle point was freshest where it mattered most.\n\nAlmost all analog disc records were recorded at a constant angular speed, resulting in a decreasing linear speed toward the disc's center. The result was a maximum level of signal distortion due to low groove velocity nearest the center of the disc, called \"end-groove distortion\". Loud musical passages were most audibly affected. Since some music, especially classical music, tends to start quietly and mount to a loud climax, such distortion could be minimized if the disc was recorded to play beginning at the inner end of the groove. A few such records were issued, but the domination of automatic record changers, and the fact that symphony movements, for example, varied greatly in length and could be difficult to arrange appropriately on 20-minute disc sides, made them no more than curiosities.\n\nUntil the 1920s, French Pathé Records used inside start and other commercially distinctive grooving. At that time they cut all discs vertically, meaning the vibrations in the grooves were \"hill and dale,\" as their wax cylinders had always been. The records required a special sapphire stylus and a vertically responsive reproducer for playback.\n\nA number of radio transcriptions were standard lateral grooved records (either playing at 33 1/3 or 78) but starting from the inside. An example was those made by the New York Judson Studios, starting in about 1928 or 1929 and running into the 1930s. Each record were 12\", made of standard shellac, started in the inner groove and had a locked groove at the outer edge. Some radio transcription discs had both outside and inside-start as a way to maintain the fidelity levels when the record was turned over.\n\nInventor Thomas Edison, who always favored the cylinder for all its advantages, also cut his discs with vertically modulated grooves from their introduction in 1912 until a year or two before his company's demise in 1929 (Edison Disc Records). Edison pioneered fine groove discs that played for up to five minutes per 10-inch side; they were very thick to remain perfectly flat and played back with a precision-ground diamond stylus. A commercially unsuccessful extension of the system introduced grooves nearly twice as fine as those of microgroove LPs, yielding playing times of up to 20 minutes per side at 80 RPM and again requiring a special diamond stylus. Even more than with Pathé discs, Edison's vertical-cut records called for specially designed equipment for playback.\n\nWhen using a modern stereo cartridge to play these or other vertical-cut monophonic recordings, the polarity of one channel must be inverted at some point before the two channels are combined to produce a mono signal, as is desirable; otherwise, they largely cancel each other out, leaving little more than surface noise audible.\n\nBefore the development of the single-groove stereo system circa 1957, at least three companies: Cook Records, Livingston Audio Products, and Atlantic Records, released a number of \"binaural\" recordings. These were not created using binaural recording techniques, but rather one side of each record consisted of two long, continuous tracks — one containing the left channel, and the other containing the right channel. It was intended that the buyer purchase an adapter from Cook Laboratories or a tonearm from Livingston that allowed two cartridges to be mounted together, with the proper spacing, on a single tone arm. Over 50 records were released using this format.\n\nQuadraphonic records present four channels of audio, requiring specialized pickups and decoding equipment to reproduce the two additional channels' signals from the groove.\n\nIn the 1970s and early 1980s, more than a thousand audiophile records were produced with audio tracks specially encoded to be played back through various noise reduction systems in order to reduce noise and increase dynamic range. Systems employed include dbx II disc (1973–1982), Telefunken's & Nakamichi's High Com II (1979–1982), and CBS' CX (1981–1982).\n\nHighway Hi-Fi was a system of proprietary records and players designed for use in automobiles, utilizing a slower play speed and high stylus pressure.\n\nWith their origin stretching back to the dawn of recorded sound at the turn of the 20th century, flexible recording media have been made from a variety of materials including foil, paper, and–in the 1950s–thin flexible vinyl known as flexi discs.\n\nThin, flexible paper-based records were briefly popularized in the 1930s by Hit of the Week Records and Durium Records. \"Melody Cards\" were popular in the late 1950s. They took the form of an oversized rectangular postcard with the usual address and greeting space on one side and an illustration on the other. The illustration was overlaid with a transparent plastic material into which the grooving was impressed. The recording was usually musical as the name implies. They typically played at 45 RPM. It was recommended to not write on them with a ball point pen, an invention which was just coming into common use at that time. Laminated cardboard records have been produced as integral promotional novelties on packaging, most notably on the backs of cereal boxes in the late 1960s and early 1970s.\n\nBeginning in the 1940s, flexible records began to be used in the form of \"book records\"–spiral bound paper publications and four or five flexible record sheets bound in. A spindle hole went through the entire assembly. Book records could be opened to one of the records and completely folded back around itself, so that the whole thing could be placed on the turntable and played intact.\n\nIn the 1950s, advances in vinyl production technology led to the development of the 7-inch 33 RPM flexi disc record. Only seen occasionally in the 1950s, these recordings were increasingly used as inserts in magazines that included audio supplements from the 1960s through the 1980s. The recordings were pressed on very thin, flexible sheets of vinyl (or laminated paper), providing a mixture of economy, practical utility and novelty appeal. Flexi discs or Soundsheets were often provided by music publishers to their customers, frequently school band and orchestra directors, marching band and drum corps leaders and others, with their printed catalogs of sheet music. The director could then hear a sample recording of the piece as they looked at an excerpt from the musical score.\n\nIn the late 1970s and early 1980s, when computer programs and other binary data were often stored on audio cassettes, a number of microcomputer hobbyist magazines published \"flexible program sheets\" under various trademarked names including \"Floppy ROM\", \"Flexisoft\", and \"Discoflex\". These bound-in thin plastic 33 RPM audio recordings stored computer data such as video game programs that would be played on a turntable and dubbed onto a cassette. It was also possible to connect the record player's output to the computer's cassette (analog signal) input port and load the data into the computer directly. This method of storing computer data later expanded to include non-flexi-disc novelty releases from musicians such as Chris Sievey.\nChocolate records about three inches in diameter, and small players made for them, were marketed as a novelty in Europe in 1903–1904. After a record wore out or ceased to amuse, it could be eaten.\n\nIn 1973, the Kingdom of Bhutan issued several unusual postage stamps that are playable miniature phonograph records. These thin plastic single-sided adhesive-backed 33 RPM discs feature folk music and tourism information. Not very practical for actual postal use and rarely seen canceled, they were designed as revenue-generating novelties and were initially scorned as such by most stamp collectors. Their small diameters (approximately 7 and 10 cm or 2.75 and 4 inches) make them unplayable on turntables with automatic return tonearms.\n\nIn the Soviet Union in the 1930s and 1960s, bootleg copies of banned Western music were individually recorded onto used medical x-ray film and sold on the black market. These were called \"ribs\" or 'Roentgenizdat'.\n\nThe first discs by Berliner Gramophone were black, and that has been the standard color for gramophone records in times subsequent. As early as 1899, the Vitaphone Talking Machine Co. made records that were brownish-red in color. The American Record Company produced records made of blue shellac for their flagship label, although pressings for client labels were made in standard black. Unusual colors, and even multi-colored shellac first appeared in the 1910s on such labels as Vocalion Records. In the 1920s, several companies made records of various shades of brown, including Perfect Records and Grey Gull Records.\n\nWhen RCA Victor launched the 7-inch 45 RPM record, they initially had eight musical classifications (pop, country, blues, classical, children's, etc.) each with not only its own uniquely colored label but with a corresponding color vinyl. According to experts at the Sarnoff Center in Princeton, New Jersey, the cost of maintaining eight vinyl colors became too high, but the different colored labels were continued, at least for popular music (black) and classical (red, as in \"Red Seal\"). In October 1945, RCA Victor put on the market its first \"non-breakable\" phonograph records. Made of a ruby-red, translucent vinyl resin plastic, they cost twice as much ($2 per disc) as the 12-inch Victor Red Seal. In the 1960s, a distinction was made in label colors of promotional copies of 45 RPM records as well, with pop music being issued on yellow labels and country on light green.\n\nIn the 1970s, such gimmicks started to reappear on records, especially on 7-inch and 12-inch singles. These included using colored acetate instead of black vinyl. Available colors included clear, transparent white, red, blue, yellow and multi-hued.\n\nFaust released their debut album with transparent vinyl and cover in 1971, and a transparent 12-inch of Queen's \"The Invisible Man\" was released. In the 1980s, the ska band Bad Manners released a single on Magnet Records called \"Sampson And Delilah\" that was pressed on clear vinyl, with a clear label and clear print on the label and it came in a clear sleeve. Some recordings were released in several different colors, in an effort to sell the same product to one person multiple times, if they were of the collecting bent. Currently, it is common practice for hardcore punk to release records of different colors at the same time, and press a smaller number of one color than the other. This has created a culture of hardcore record collecting based on having the same release multiple times, each copy with a different and more rare color.\n\nThe 1977 release of the 45 RPM single of \"Strawberry Letter 23\" by The Brothers Johnson was produced by A&M Records with a slightly pink center label (as opposed to the usual buff color that A&M uses), and had strawberry scent embedded into the plastic to make the record give off the odor of strawberries.\n\nAdrian Snell's 1979 album \"Something New Under the Sun\" was produced on opaque yellow vinyl, in reference to the name of the album.\n\nKraftwerk released a 12-inch single of \"Neon Lights,\" made of glow-in-the-dark plastic in 1978. Penetration released a luminous vinyl limited edition of the album \"Moving Targets\" in 1978 and the \"Translumadefractadisc\" (Han-O-Disc) punk sampler picture disc (which had a silk screened luminous ink under the litho on Mylar film image of Medusa) was released by The Label (U.K) in 1979. The Foo Fighters' debut single \"This Is a Call\" was available on 12-inch glow-in-the-dark vinyl, and Luke Vibert also released a glow-in-the-dark 11-inch EP in 2000. In late 2010 - early 2011, dubstep artist Skrillex released a limited 500 copy run of his EP \"Scary Monsters and Nice Sprites\" on 12-inch glow-in-the-dark vinyl.\n\nThe Canadian pressing of Devo's \"\" album featured spattered-color vinyl, with a grey/white marbled base with splashes of color on the top of that. The UK pressing came in multiple (solid) colors of vinyl and a picture disc edition that came with a flexi-disc (the US edition, however, was plain black).\n\nFrom the mid 1980s to the early 1990s, Canadian rock singer Bryan Adams released a small number of singles on colored vinyl. Notable examples are \"Christmas Time\", originally on both black and clear green vinyl and later reissued on red vinyl, and a 12\" single of \"Thought I'd Died And Gone To Heaven\" on silver colored vinyl in 1992, in order to commemorate the massive sales of his earlier hit single \"(Everything I Do) I Do It For You\", which was featured in its full-length version on the disc.\n\nIsis released their first EP \"Red Sea\"' on tri-colored vinyl. Divided like a pie, one third was red, one third was black, and one third was tan/gold. Other bands have released records with 2 colors, divided down the middle.\n\nElectronic artist Isao Tomita issued a coral or peach vinyl disc of \"The Bermuda Triangle\" on RCA Red Seal.\n\nAlternative artist The Dandy Warhols have been known to release all their 7-inch singles on different color vinyl records, and also their LP's. An uncolored, clear, limited release version of their album 'The Dandy Warhols Come Down' was available at the record stores in the band's hometown in 1997.\n\nJack White's independent label Third Man Records often produces limited editions of their releases on colored, multi-colored and glow-in-the-dark vinyl.\n\nAmerican singer songwriter Madonna released her 2005 album \"Confessions on a Dance Floor\" on a double pink vinyl. Her 2008 Hard Candy album was released on a triple package, which two of these LPs are \"candy swirled\" vinyl discs (pink-white and blue-white \"candy swirled\" discs like a starlight candy).\n\nThe alternative band Jars of Clay released a limited edition version of their 'Inland' album using coke bottle green for the disc.\n\nIn 2015, on the occasion of a major MoMA retrospective of her career, Icelandic singer songwriter Björk released her back catalog of studio albums on limited edition colored vinyl. Each color was matched to the \"character\" created for the respective album, with \"Debut\" being beige, \"Post\" pink, \"Homogenic\" green, \"Vespertine\" white, \"Medúlla\" maroon, \"Volta\" dual colored in red and neon green, and \"Biophilia\", also dual colored, on orange and translucent deep blue vinyl. Her most current release at the time, 2015's \"Vulnicura\", was released months later on limited edition double translucent neon yellow vinyl.\n\nA picture disc has graphics visible in the grooved playing area, rather than just on an unplayable back side or large label.\n\nPicture discs have been around since the 1920s—or since about 1910, if postcard-size rectangular picture records are included. In the early 1930s they were a minor gimmick in an attempt to stimulate abysmal depression-era record sales. Most of these early picture discs were simply a very thin clear plastic laminated onto a sheet of printed cardboard before being stamped in a record press. One US series was more substantial. Some suffered from audible defects such as low-frequency noise due to a surface texture or were rapidly worn to shreds by the very heavy pickups and crude steel needles used to play records at that time.\n\nVogue Records 78 rpm picture discs were made by Sav-Way Industries in 1946 and 1947 and were of high quality both physically and sonically. Their playing surfaces were clear vinyl and there was a sturdy aluminum core disc between the printed sheets. The imagery was usually gaudy and done in 1940s calendar art style. They sold for US $1.05 each, only about 50 percent more than ordinary shellac records, but the list of available titles was short and the recording artists were second-rank at best.\n\nThe first 'modern' rock picture disc was introduced as an assortment of artists such as MC5 and The Doors. It was released in 1969 by Elektra/Metronome of Germany and entitled \"Psychedelic Underground - Off 2, Hallucinations\"\n. The second release was the British progressive rock band Curved Air's first album, \"Airconditioning\", a UK issue (1970). One commercially issued American picture disc is \"To Elvis: Love Still Burning\", a collection of 11 Elvis Presley tribute songs by various artists, issued in May 1978. Both sides of the album (Fotoplay FSP-1001) picture Presley.\n\nIn 2015, Icelandic singer songwriter Björk released \"Vulnicura Live\" as double LP picture discs available exclusively through the London record shop Rough Trade. The set was limited to 1000 copies and sold out within 2 days of being available for preorder.\n\nShaped discs contain an ordinary grooved centre (typically the same as a standard 7-inch) but with a non-grooved outer rim that can be cut to any shape that does not cut into the grooves. These oddly shaped records were frequently combined with picture discs (see above); a trend that was pushed particularly hard by UK record company branches in the mid-1980s. Curiously, uncut test pressings of shaped discs in their original 12-inch form - with the clear vinyl surrounds still intact - are much more sought-after by collectors than the \"regular\" shapes themselves.\n\nScreamo bands Jeromes Dream and Orchid released a split in the shape of a skull. The record was considered a 10-inch. It spun at 45 RPM and was one sided. Some came in glow in the dark, some in blood red, and some black and white.\n\nSome extreme examples required smaller grooving than standard 7-inch such as the single \"Montana\" by John Linnell (of the band They Might Be Giants) which was in the shape of the United States. This record was problematic because record players whose tonearms returned automatically after the record finished playing often did just that before the needle actually reached the song.\n\nCanadian hardcore punk bands Left For Dead and Acrid released a split LP on No Idea Records on July 31, 1997 as a saw-blade shaped vinyl record. When these spun on the record player, they resembled a spinning saw. The rap duo Insane Clown Posse released a sample vinyl featuring songs from their studio album , in the shape of the album's \"Joker Card\", the Wraith. Alternative rock band Snow Patrol released a specially created web-shaped vinyl for the single \"Signal Fire,\" a song which was used in the film \"Spider-Man 3\".\n\nUsually taking up a blank side of vinyl, rather than containing music, one side of a disc can be pressed with etched or embossed images. This can take the form of autographs, part of the artwork or logos. Earliest records produced by Emile Berliner, as those by other early companies as Zonophone had etched labels, before paper labels were widely used. Many early Edison Diamond Discs did have etched labels as well, with many (if not all) also featuring a little etched picture of Thomas Edison.\n\nThe Gramophone company etched their logo at the blank side of their single sided records in the early 1900s, in the same way, Some later single sided Red Seal records by Victor had a pattern with the word Victor on it.\n\nAfter having already released both colored vinyl singles and picture discs in the 1980s, Canadian rock artist Bryan Adams issued a 12\" single of \"Can't Stop This Thing We Started\" in autumn 1991, which had the front cover photography etched onto side B.\n\nCoheed and Cambria released their fourth album \"\" with side four having etched artwork on it incorporating the band's logo. The \"B side\" of Dinosaur Jr's cover of The Cure's \"Just like Heaven\" has a bas-relief \"sculpture\" embossed on its surface.\n\nAlthough these etchings cannot be seen while the record is playing, some are pressed on clear vinyl so the etchings can be seen from both sides. An example of this is the 1997 7-inch of \"Freeze the Atlantic\" by Cable which has etched fish.\n\nThe Japanese rock band Boris (known for their unique LPs; their 2006 album Pink was released on pink vinyl) pressed their 2006 album, Vein, on transparent vinyl with etched artwork on the outer two inches of the record. This causes problems with auto-start phonographs, as the actual grooves of music do not start where the needle is designed to drop. This may cause damage to the needle and record artwork.\n\nFinnish electronica group Huminoida released a 7-inch called Self-titled, which B-side was hand carved by the band members. It was limited to 300 unique copies.\nThe 1980 A&M Records LP of Split Enz's album \"True Colours\" was remarkable not only for its multiple cover releases (in different color patterns), but for the laser-etching process used on the vinyl. The logo from the album cover, as well as other shapes, were etched into the vinyl in a manner that, if hit by a light, would reflect in polychromatic colors. This laser etching does not affect the playing grooves. This same process was also used for the 45 single of the band's song \"One Step Ahead\" from the album \"Waiata\".\n\nThe 1981 A&M Records LP of Styx's album \"Paradise Theatre\" had a laser-etched design of the band's logo on side two.\n\nThe 1990 Mute XL12Bong18 release from Depeche Mode features \"Enjoy the Silence\" The Quad: Final Mix on side A and the etched image of a rose and a hand-drawn \"DM\" on side B.\n\nThe original soundtrack recording for the film \"Superman II\" had a special edition with the Superman \"S\" shield logo etched five times on each side of the standard black vinyl album.\n\nFor the release of the soundtrack for the Disney film \"The Black Hole\", a prototype disc filled with aniline dye colored silicone fluids and oils that freely move around was produced; however, leakage proved too great a problem and it was never released.\n\nIn 2012, Third Man Records announced a limited edition 12-inch single release of Jack White's \"Sixteen Saltines\" on a liquid-filled disc, calling it \"the first-ever disc of its kind to be made available to the public\" and noting the unreleased \"Black Hole\" release.\n\nAlso in 2012, The Flaming Lips released an extremely limited (and expensive) edition of their double album of collaborations \"The Flaming Lips and Heady Fwends\", which was filled with a diluted mix of blood contributed by several of the collaborators, including Kesha, Chris Martin and Neon Indian's Alan Palomo. It was pressed at United Record Pressing in Nashville at the same time as Jack White's liquid-filled \"Sixteen Saltines\" 12\", and the first copy of the \"Fwends\" blood vinyl was traded for two copies of \"Saltines.\"\n\nIn 2017, Fonoflo Records released a liquid filled record for Tennessee Jet's Reata featuring double-concentric liquids, being the first of its kind. In an outer chamber on the record, Old Crow whiskey was inserted, while Coca-Cola was inserted to an inner ring.\n\nOne of the many features added to the vinyl version of Jack White's 2014 album \"Lazaretto\" is a floating hologram image of a spinning angel that appears when the record is played and viewed at from a certain angle.\nAdditionally, alongside a standard vinyl release, the soundtrack for \"\" was made available on a holographic record that displays an image of the \"Millennium Falcon\" on one side and a TIE fighter on the other, both spinning at the speed of the record. The deluxe vinyl edition of Rush's \"2112\" features a hologram of a spinning Red Star of the Federation. All three of these were produced by Tristan Duke for his studio Infinity Light Science.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36127736", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36127736", "title": "Urbanisation in India", "text": "Urbanisation in India\n\nUrbanization in India began to accelerate after, due to the country's adoption of a mixed economy, which gave rise to the development of the private sector. Urbanisation is taking place at a faster rate in India. Population residing in urban areas in India, according to 1901 census, was 11.4%. This count increased to 28.53% according to 2001 census, and crossing 30% as per 2011 census, standing at 31.16%. According to a survey by UN State of the World Population report in 2007, by 2030, 40.76% of country's population is expected to reside in urban areas. As per World Bank, India, along with China, Indonesia, Nigeria, and the United States, will lead the world's urban population surge by 2050.\n\nMumbai saw large scale rural-urban migration in the 20th century. Mumbai, in 2018, accommodates 22.1 million people, and is the largest metropolis by population in India, followed by Delhi with 28 million inhabitants. Witnessing the fastest rate of urbanisation in the world, as per 2011 census, Delhi's population rises by 4.1%, Mumbai's by 3.1% and Kolkata's by 2% as per 2011 census compared to 2001 census.\n\nAfter independence, India faced poverty, unemployment, and economic backwardness. The first Prime Minister of India, Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru, focused on the domain of science and technology. The \"mixed economy\" system was adopted, resulting in the growth of the Public sector in India crippling down the development of Indian economy leading to what is popularly known as Hindu rate of growth.\n\nThe contribution of the agricultural sector to the GDP of India started to decline and the percentage contribution from secondary sector increased. The period after 1941, witnessed rapid growth of four metropolitan cities in India, which were Kolkata, Delhi, Mumbai, and Chennai. The nation's economy saw a rise due to industrial revolution and the invention of new technologies increased the standard of living of people living in urban areas. The growth of public sector resulted in development of public transport, roads, water supply, electricity, and hence the infrastructure of urban areas.\n\nMaharashtra was the most urbanized state in India till 1991, stood behind Tamil Nadu in 2001 and third after it in 2011, with Kerala being second, with the urban-total state population ratio. However, Maharashtra's urban population of 41 million, far exceeds that of Tamil Nadu which is at 27 million, as per the 2001 census.\n\nThe main causes of urbanisation in India are:\n\nRapid rise in urban population, in India, is leading to many problems like increasing slums, decrease in standard of living in urban areas, also causing environmental damage.\n\nThe Industrial Revolution of the 18th century caused countries like the United States and the United Kingdom to become superpowers, but conditions elsewhere are worsening. India's urban growth rate is 2.07%; seemingly insignificant compared to Rwanda, with 7.6%. India has around 300 million people living in metropolitan areas. This has greatly increased housing issues: with overcrowded cities, many people are forced to live in unsafe conditions, such as illegal buildings. Water lines, roads and electricity are lacking in quality, resulting in a decline of living standards. It is also contributing to the issues presented by pollution.\n\nUrbanization also results in a disparity in the market, owing to the large demands of the growing population and the primary sector struggling to cope.\n\nAllan Chirare, 15 August 2015 quotes: \"Urbanization is just becoming a disaster to the city of Mumbai in India.\"\n\nIt could be argued that urbanization impacts the migrants themselves on multiple levels. Networks of friends and family become support systems during the initial transformation phase and the struggle to find work in a fast-paced environment. Their struggles may take months, or even years, to adjust to the new surrounds in order to find a stable job. Migrants are responsible for supporting both themselves in the city and the family left at home. \n\nSome of the positive effects resulting from rural to urban migration occur in the agrarian communities from which migrants came. Family members left at home, usually the elderly and young, are eased out of financial pressures as their relatives work to provide higher standards of living for their dependants. Their quality of life is often additionally improved by the provisions that the migrant sends back. \n\nOn the other hand, rural to urban migration poses a big challenge for the developing cities due to migrant populations flocking in. How will cities support it in terms of resources, land and space?\n\nThe National Sample Survey Organisation reported the following urban unemployment rates for the period July 2011–June 2012:\n\n"}
{"id": "47617104", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47617104", "title": "Uruguayans in Ecuador", "text": "Uruguayans in Ecuador\n\nUruguayan Ecuadorians are people born in Uruguay who live in Ecuador, or Ecuadorian-born people of Uruguayan descent. \n\nThere are lots of Uruguayan-born persons living in Ecuador, for a number of reasons. Both countries share the Spanish language; the historical origins of both nations is common (part of the Spanish Empire until the early 19th century).\n\nUruguayan-style pizza and asado can be found on selected places in Ecuador.\n\n"}
{"id": "44021", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44021", "title": "Utopian and dystopian fiction", "text": "Utopian and dystopian fiction\n\nThe utopia and its opposite, the dystopia, are genres of speculative fiction that explore social and political structures. Utopian fiction portrays a setting that agrees with the author's ethos, having various attributes of another reality intended to appeal to readers. Dystopian fiction (sometimes combined with, but distinct from apocalyptic literature) is the opposite: the portrayal of a setting that completely disagrees with the author's ethos. Many novels combine both, often as a metaphor for the different directions humanity can take, depending on its choices, ending up with one of two possible futures. Both utopias and dystopias are commonly found in science fiction and other speculative fiction genres, and arguably are by definition a type of speculative fiction.\n\nMore than 400 utopian works were published prior to the year 1900 in the English language alone, with more than a thousand others during the twentieth century.\n\nThe word \"utopia\" was first used in direct context by Sir Thomas More in his 1516 work \"Utopia\". The word \"utopia\" resembles both the Greek words \"no place\", \"outopos\", and \"good place\", \"eutopos\". In his book, which was written in Latin, More sets out a vision of an ideal society. As the title suggests, the work presents an ambiguous and ironic projection of the ideal state. The whimsical nature of the text can be confirmed by the narrator of Utopia's second book, Raphael Hythloday. The Greek root of Hythloday suggests an 'expert in nonsense'. An earlier example of a Utopian work from classical antiquity is Plato's \"The Republic\", in which he outlines what he sees as the ideal society and its political system. Later examples can be seen in Samuel Johnson's \"The History of Rasselas, Prince of Abissinia\" and Samuel Butler's \"Erewhon\", which uses an anagram of \"nowhere\" as its title. This, like much of the utopian literature, can be seen as satire; Butler inverts illness and crime, with punishment for the former and treatment for the latter.\n\nA dystopia is a society characterized by a focus on that which is contrary to the author's ethos, such as mass poverty, public mistrust and suspicion, a police state or oppression. Most authors of dystopian fiction explore at least one reason why things are that way, often as an analogy for similar issues in the real world. Dystopian literature is used to \"provide fresh perspectives on problematic social and political practices that might otherwise be taken for granted or considered natural and inevitable\". \nSome dystopias claim to be utopias. Samuel Butler's \"Erewhon\" can be seen as a dystopia because of the way sick people are punished as criminals while thieves are \"cured\" in hospitals, which the inhabitants of Erewhon see as natural and right, i.e. utopian (as mocked in Voltaire's \"Candide\").\n\nDystopias usually extrapolate elements of contemporary society and this can be read as political warnings. The 1921 novel \"We\" by Yevgeny Zamyatin predicts a post-apocalyptic future in which society is entirely based on logic and modeled after mechanical systems. George Orwell cited \"We\" as an influence on his \"Nineteen Eighty-Four\", a novel about Oceania, a state at perpetual war, its population controlled through propaganda. Big Brother and the daily Two Minutes Hate set the tone for an all-pervasive self-censorship. Aldous Huxley's novel \"Brave New World\" started as a parody of utopian fiction, and projected into the year 2540 industrial and social changes he perceived in 1931, leading to industrial success by a coercively persuaded population divided into five castes; the World State kills everyone 60 years old or older.\n\nAnthony Burgess's 1962 novel \"A Clockwork Orange\" is set in a future England that has a subculture of extreme youth violence, and details the protagonist's experiences with the state intent on changing his character at their whim. Margaret Atwood's \"The Handmaid's Tale\" describes a future United States governed by a totalitarian theocracy, where women have no rights. Examples of young adult dystopian fiction include \"The Hunger Games\" by Suzanne Collins, \"The House of the Scorpion\" by Nancy Farmer, \"Divergent\", \"Insurgent\" by Veronica Roth, \"The Maze Runner\" by James Dashner, and \"Delirium\" by Lauren Oliver. Video games often include dystopias as well; notable examples include the \"Fallout\" series, \"BioShock\", and the later games of the \"Half-Life\" series.\n\nThe history of dystopian literature can be traced back to the 19th century. Most experts in literature agree that the origins of dystopian fiction are rooted strongly in utopian fiction. Dystopian fiction emerged as a response to utopian fiction, a great example of which is Edward Bellamy’s 1888 best-selling novel \"Looking Backward\", about a socialist utopia set in 2000. Dystopian fiction usually has satirical elements interwoven in it. It is based on imagined scenarios rather than real ones, but they are incorporated into storylines that readers can relate to the present.\n\nComing to the historical background of dystopian fiction, it is almost impossible to talk about it without referring to the historical background of utopian fiction. Utopian texts often ‘made promises’, while dystopian texts ‘issued warnings' Utopian writers based their writing on perfect patterns and organized societies; however, at the outset of the 19th century, writers began to recognise the impossibility of such utopic scenarios and an anti-utopic wave gripped literature. (insert in-text citation). The beginning of technological dystopian fiction can be traced back to E.M. Forster’s (1879-1970) \"The Machine Stops\". Forster is widely accepted as the 'pioneer of dystopian literature.'\n\nAfter Forster's \"The Machine Stops\", more dystopian literature emerged, such as \"We\" and \"Brave New World\".\nM Keith Booker states that these fictions are \"the great defining texts of the genre of dystopian fiction, both in [the] vividness of their engagement with real-world social and political issues, and in the scope of their critique of the societies on which they focus.\"\n\nAnother very important figure in Dystopian Literature is H.G. Wells, whose work \"The Time Machine\" (1895) is also widely accepted as one of the best prototypes for dystopian literature. Post World War II, even more dystopian fiction was produced. These works of fiction were interwoven with political commentary: the end of World War II brought about fears of an impending Third World War and a consequent apocalypse, which began to be reflected in these works. There is a fine line between apocalyptic literature and dystopian literature, however the difference is mostly negligible. The most striking feature of Dystopian fiction is its dynamic and ever-changing character. This is primarily because different social and political situations around the world influenced different dystopic writers. This is why the entire body of dystopian fiction is incredibly diverse and heterogenous. Works of this genre spanning different times and different years are different as authors carefully observed what was going on around them and then wrote on the issues that concerned them deeply, often putting a different spin on things.\n\nToday, Dystopian fiction draws not only on several topics that older dystopic works talked about such as totalitarian governments and anarchism, but also on topics that are widely talked about in today's society such as pollution, global warming, climate change, health, the economy and technology. Dystopian fiction has also found its way to the young adult (YA) genre of literature, as opposed to the more adult audience that it was originally meant for.\n\nJonathan Swift's \"Gulliver's Travels\" is sometimes linked with utopian (and dystopian) literature, because it shares the general preoccupation with ideas of the good (and bad) society. Of the countries Lemuel Gulliver visits, Brobdingnag and Country of the Houyhnhnms approach a utopia; the others have significant dystopian aspects.\n\nMany works combine elements of both utopias and dystopias. Typically, an observer from our world will journey to another place or time and see one society the author considers ideal, and another representing the worst possible outcome. The point is usually that the choices we make now may lead to a better or worse potential future world. Ursula K. Le Guin's \"Always Coming Home\" fulfils this model, as does Marge Piercy's \"Woman on the Edge of Time\". In Starhawk's \"The Fifth Sacred Thing\" there is no time-travelling observer, but her ideal society is invaded by a neighbouring power embodying evil repression. In Aldous Huxley's \"Island\", in many ways a counterpoint to his better-known \"Brave New World\", the fusion of the best parts of Buddhist philosophy and Western technology is threatened by the \"invasion\" of oil companies. As another example, in the \"Unwanteds\" series by Lisa McMann, a paradox occurs where the outcasts from a complete dystopia are treated to absolute utopia, and therefore believe that those who were privileged in said dystopia were actually the unlucky ones.\n\nIn another literary model, the imagined society journeys between elements of utopia and dystopia over the course of the novel or film. At the beginning of \"The Giver\" by Lois Lowry, the world is described as a utopia, but as the book progresses, the world's dystopian aspects are revealed.\n\nIn ecotopian fiction, the author posits either a utopian or dystopian world revolving around environmental conservation or destruction. Danny Bloom coined the term \"cli fi\" in 2006, with a Twitter boost from Margaret Atwood in 2011, to cover climate change-related fiction, but the theme has existed for decades. Novels dealing with overpopulation, such as Harry Harrison's \"Make Room! Make Room!\" (made into movie \"Soylent Green\"), were popular in the 1970s, reflecting the popular concern with the effects of overpopulation on the environment. The novel \"Nature's End\" by Whitley Strieber and James Kunetka (1986) posits a future in which overpopulation, pollution, climate change, and resulting superstorms, have led to a popular mass-suicide political movement. Some other examples of ecological dystopias are depictions of Earth in the films \"Wall-E\" and \"Avatar\".\n\nWhile eco-dystopias are more common, a small number of works depicting what might be called eco-utopia, or eco-utopian trends, have also been influential. These include Ernest Callenbach's \"Ecotopia\", an important 20th century example of this genre. Kim Stanley Robinson has written a number of books dealing with environmental themes, including the Mars trilogy. Most notably, however, his \"Three Californias Trilogy\" contrasted an eco-dystopia with an eco-utopia, and a sort of middling-future. Robinson has also edited an anthology of short ecotopian fiction, called \"\".\n\nThere are a few dystopias that have an \"anti-ecological\" theme. These are often characterized by a government that is overprotective of nature or a society that has lost most modern technology and struggles for survival. A good example of this is the novel \"Riddley Walker\".\n\nAnother subgenre is feminist utopias and the overlapping category of feminist science fiction. Writer Sally Miller Gearhart calls this sort of fiction political: it contrasts the present world with an idealized society, criticizes contemporary values and conditions, sees men or masculine systems as the major cause of social and political problems (e.g. war), and presents women as equal to men, having ownership over their reproductive functions.\n\nUtopias have explored the ramification of gender being either a societal construct or a hard-wired imperative. In Mary Gentle's \"Golden Witchbreed\", gender is not chosen until maturity, and gender has no bearing on social roles. In contrast, Doris Lessing's \"The Marriages Between Zones Three, Four and Five\" (1980) suggests that men's and women's values are inherent to the sexes and cannot be changed, making a compromise between them essential. In \"My Own Utopia\" (1961) by Elisabeth Mann Borgese, gender exists but is dependent upon age rather than sex — genderless children mature into women, some of whom eventually become men. Marge Piercy's novel \"Woman on the Edge of Time\" keeps human biology, but removes pregnancy and childbirth from the gender equation by resorting to assisted reproductive technology while allowing both women and men the nurturing experience of breastfeeding.\n\nUtopic single-gender worlds or single-sex societies have long been one of the primary ways to explore implications of gender and gender-differences. One solution to gender oppression or social issues in feminist utopian fiction is to remove men, either showing isolated all-female societies as in Charlotte Perkins Gilman's \"Herland\", or societies where men have died out or been replaced, as in Joanna Russ's \"A Few Things I Know About Whileaway\", where \"the poisonous binary gender\" has died off. In speculative fiction, female-only worlds have been imagined to come about by the action of disease that wipes out men, along with the development of technological or mystical method that allow female parthenogenetic reproduction. The resulting society is often shown to be utopian by feminist writers. Many influential feminist utopias of this sort were written in the 1970s; the most often studied examples include Joanna Russ's \"The Female Man\", Suzy McKee Charnas's \"The Holdfast Chronicles\". Such worlds have been portrayed most often by lesbian or feminist authors; their use of female-only worlds allows the exploration of female independence and freedom from patriarchy. The societies may not necessarily be lesbian, or sexual at all — \"Herland\" (1915) by Charlotte Perkins Gilman is a famous early example of a sexless society. Charlene Ball writes in \"Women's Studies Encyclopedia\" that use of speculative fiction to explore gender roles has been more common in the United States than in Europe and elsewhere.\n\nUtopias imagined by male authors have generally included equality between sexes, rather than separation.\n\nFeminist dystopias have become prevalent in young adult fiction, or YA, in recent years, focusing on the relationship between gender identity and the teenager. For instance, the \"Birthmarked\" trilogy by Caragh M. O'Brien focuses on a teenage midwife in a future post-apocalyptic world while the second novel in the series places the teenage heroine Gaia in a matriarchy.\n\nÉtienne Cabet's work \"Travels in Icaria\" caused a group of followers to leave France in 1848 and travel to the United States to start a series of utopian settlements in Texas, Illinois, Iowa, California, and elsewhere. These groups lived in communal settings and lasted until 1898.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24172080", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24172080", "title": "Yejju Oromo tribe", "text": "Yejju Oromo tribe\n\nYejju Oromo belong to the Barentu branch of Oromo people. They are one of the northernmost communities of the Oromo, who are the largest ethnic group in Ethiopia.\n\nThe Barentu (also Barento/Barentuma) is one of the two moieties of the Oromo people, the other being the Borana. Yejju Oromo is often categorised inside the Barentu branch and other neighbouring communities include the Wollo Oromo and the Raya Oromo. Due to Amhara expansion to the northern traditional Oromo regions, and the assimilation of these peoples into the dominant culture beginning at the turn of the 20th century, the Yejju presently found in the ethnic Amhara dominated regions of northern Ethiopia identify as Amharas.\n\nDuring the 17th century, the Yejju dynasty (more specifically, the Warasek) ruled much of the Ethiopian empire during the Zemene Mesafint or \"Age of Princes\", changing the language in the court of Gondar to Oromo language. Throughout the era, different ethnic groups, clans and communities made short-term alliances to acquire economic advantage and political power.\n\nAs early as 1890, under the reign of Menelik II, the homeland of the Yejju was organised into an Ethiopian province named for them. It was bordered by the Alewuha River to the north, separating it from Rayya Qobbo district, the Mille River to the south, separating it from Wollo Province, the Afar Depression to the east, and the highlands of Amba Sel to the west. Woldiya served as its capital city. Currently, the territories of these northern tip Oromos are officially located inside Amhara Region, specifically divided between the districts of Habru and Woldiya town, with smaller portions administratively part of Guba Lafto and Amba Sel. Consequently, these boundaries have been rejected by various Oromo nationalist groups, including the Oromo Liberation Front.\n"}
{"id": "39297730", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39297730", "title": "Zialo people", "text": "Zialo people\n\nThe Zialo are an ethnic group of Guinea. It is also the language traditionally spoken by these people.\n\nPopulation is estimated at 25,000\n\nZialo is a Southwestern Mande language. Zialo has five major dialects: Bayawa, Wolo-Ziolo, Woyjawa, Kelighigo and Lawolozu.\n"}
{"id": "3721531", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3721531", "title": "Ösel Tendzin", "text": "Ösel Tendzin\n\nÖsel Tendzin () (1943–1990) was a western Buddhist. He was Chögyam Trungpa's principal student. On August 22, 1976, Chögyam Trungpa empowered Ösel Tendzin as his Vajra Regent and first Western lineage holder in the Karma Kagyu and Nyingma schools of Tibetan Buddhism. On August 25, 1990, Ösel Tendzin died of HIV/AIDS in San Francisco, California. His wife, Lila Rich, and a group of his students continue to live in Ojai, California.\n\nTendzin was born Thomas Frederick Rich, Jr. on June 28, 1943 in Passaic, New Jersey. He graduated in 1965 from Fordham University, initially working as a physical therapist in New York and Los Angeles. Before joining Vajradhatu he studied with Satchidananda Saraswati, who gave him the name Narayana.\n\nTendzin first met Trungpa in February 1971 in Boulder, Colorado. According to Tendzin, Trungpa revealed his intention to make Tendzin his successor not long after their initial meeting. Starting in 1973 Tendzin held various roles in the management of Vajradhatu. He served on the initial board of directors and as an executive vice-president of the organization. In April 1976, Tendzin's Regency was announced to the community for the first time. Trungpa recounted the moment in a later edition of his memoir, writing \"to ensure that everything will not stop at my death, it is necessary to have one person as an inheritor, someone whom I can train and observe over a period of many years. For a long time it was in my mind to appoint Narayana to this role, and in the summer of 1976 I did so, empowering him as Dorje Gyaltsap, Vajra Regent.\"\n\nIn his foreword to the Tendzin's 1987 book \"Buddha in the Palm of Your Hand\", Trungpa elaborated on his decision:\n\nTendzin assumed leadership of the organization in 1987 with the death of Chögyam Trungpa.\n\nIn 1989 Tendzin moved to Ojai, California with some of his students. After his death, those students led by Patrick Sweeney — who Tendzin chose as his lineage holder and successor — created an organization called Satdharma. It was formally incorporated in 1992 to continue Tendzin's lineage, separate from Vajradhatu.\n\nAmong the controversial actions of Tendzin was his rejection of the recommendation of senior Kagyu lineage holder the Tai Situpa that he take over leadership of Vajradhatu in conjunction with Chögyam Trungpa's half brother, Damchu Tenphel, who resided in Tibet. This was \"regarded by members as a serious slight to lineage authorities and was construed as the Regent's attempt to secure his position of control.\"\n\nAlso controversial was the fact that Tendzin \"took further action to buttress his centrality by denying students permission to seek teachings from other Kagyu Tibetan teachers, claiming that only he possessed the special transmission, materials and knowledge unique to the Trungpa lineage. Students were told that if they wanted to practice within the community, they would have to take spiritual instruction from the Regent.\"\n\nOther behavior was troubling as well. As one scholar who has studied the community noted, Tendzin was \"bisexual and known to be very promiscuous\" and \"enjoyed seducing straight men\" but the community \"did not find [this behavior] particularly troublesome.\" Not all his partners were unwilling; one scholar noted \"it became a mark of prestige for a man, gay or straight, to have sex with the Regent, just as it had been for a woman to have sex with <nowiki>[Trungpa]</nowiki> Rinpoche.\" However, at least one student reported that Tendzin had raped him. As a former Vajradhatu member attested, \"a chilling story had recently been reported by one of . . . <nowiki>[</nowiki>the<nowiki>]</nowiki> teachers at the Buddhist private school <nowiki>[</nowiki>for the Vajradhatu community<nowiki>]</nowiki>. This straight, married male was pinned face-down across Rich's desk by the guards <nowiki>[</nowiki>the Dorje Kasung<nowiki>]</nowiki> while Rich forcibly raped him.\"\n\nIt was revealed in 1989 that Ösel Tendzin had contracted HIV and for nearly three years knew it, yet continued to have unsafe sex with his students without informing them. He transmitted it to a student who later died of AIDS. Others close to Tendzin, including the board of directors of Vajradhatu, knew for two years that Tendzin was HIV-positive and sexually active but kept silent. As one student reported at the time,\n\nStephen Butterfield, a former student, recounted in a memoir:\n\nButterfield noted,\n\nAccording to Diana Mukpo, wife and widow of Trungpa, he ultimately became disillusioned with Tendzin as his heir, and during his final illness he called Tendzin \"terrible\" and \"dreadful\", and indicated that he would have gotten rid of Tendzin had he a suitable candidate with which to replace him. Rick Fields, the editor of Vajradhatu's publication the \"Vajradhatu Sun\", wrote that he resigned from his editorial position after Ösel Tendzin and the Board of Directors stopped him from publishing news of the events.\n\n\n\n"}
