{"id": "7912869", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7912869", "title": "1573 in art", "text": "1573 in art\n\nThe year 1573 in art involved some significant events and new works.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "730199", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=730199", "title": "Alphabet soup (linguistics)", "text": "Alphabet soup (linguistics)\n\nAlphabet soup is a metaphor for an abundance of abbreviations or acronyms, named for a common dish made from alphabet pasta. Use dates at least as far back as Franklin D. Roosevelt's alphabet agencies of the New Deal. In the United States, the Federal Government is described as an alphabet soup on account of the multitude of agencies that it has spawned, including the NSA, CIA, FBI, USSS, ATF, DEA, EPA, NCIS, IRS and INS. In 1938, a US barbershop harmony organization was founded, aptly named SPEBSQSA or The Society for the Preservation and Encouragement of Barber Shop Quartet Singing in America, Inc. as a humorous lampoon to these numerous \"alphabet soup\" agencies.\n\nThe alphabet soup metaphor has been used to describe issues in comprehension that have major effects on scholarship, including confusion between different theories. One such example of alphabet soup affecting scholarship is in statistical testing, in which distinction between p and α are not always made clear because of the \"alphabet soup\" of letters referring to statistical evidence and errors. The many different distinctions between types of pneumonia have also been described as an alphabet soup, requiring a scholarly article detailing the differences between the many acronyms.\n\nAlphabet soup is also used to describe historical language scripts that appear as long sequences of symbols that do not have clear demarcations of words.\n"}
{"id": "58913233", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58913233", "title": "Bao Luong", "text": "Bao Luong\n\nBao Luong (1909-1976) was born Nguyen Trung Nguyet (“faithful moon), in the rural Bình Đại District of Vietnam’s Bến Tre Province. She was a member of the Vietnamese Revolutionary Youth League, a communist group fighting against French rule in Vietnam. She became the first female political prisoner in Vietnam. \n\n= Early life =\nNguyen Trung Nguyet grew up on her parents farm in Binh Dai. Although few girls received an education at this time, Nguyen Trung Nguyet went to an all-boys night school run by her uncle. At nine years old her family moved from Binh Dai to Rach Gia (now Kien Giang), and at age twelve, they again uprooted to Phuoc Long (now part of Bac Lieu Province). Her father, Nguyen van Nham, was a French resistor, and told her stories of anticolonial resistance. He encouraged her to write patriotic poems and question the French rule. At her age, most young Vietnamese women were expected to be married, but Nguyen Trung Nguyet did not want to be distracted from the revolution against the French. Trung Nguyet often tried to persuade her parents to let her leave home to engage in revolutionary activities, but they resisted. In the Spring of 1927, Nguyen Trung Nguyet left home for Saigon, where she stayed with her aunt, Kim Oanh and her uncle Ton Duc Thang. Around the time she left home, Nguyen Trung Nguyet adopted the name Bao Luong (“Precious Honesty”), which she had originally used as a pen name while writing poetry. \n\n= Activism =\nHer uncle, Ton Duc Thang was the leader of the southern section of the Vietnamese Revolutionary Youth League. After four months, during which Ton Duc Thang assessed Bao Luong’s interest and potential, she was recruited to join the Vietnamese Revolutionary Youth League. Training for the Youth League was in Guangzhou, China, and before boarding the boat, Bao Luong’s family disguised her as a boy. Her true identity was discovered only after she gained the trust and loyalty of the other revolutionary activists on board. In Guangzhou, Bao and the other trainees attended lectures on revolutionary ideologies, evolution, and the socialist movement. At the training school, Bao wrote poetry and other articles for the cause. When her training was complete, she went back to her family in Phuoc Long. \n\nHer first task was to convince her family to support her efforts in the revolution, and her parents vowed to support her and keep her secret. She went on to recruit women to join the revolution. Bao Luong traveled throughout the Mekong Delta pretending to sell fabric. Along the way, she gathered women that supported the Revolutionary Youth League. Many of these women hoped that the revolution would lead to education reforms and the freedom to choose their own husbands. Bao Luong then received permission to start an all-women cell of the Revolutionary Youth League. She hosted meetings that gathered women from a wide geographical area, spanning five regions. All female meetings were unprecedented at the time, and Bao’s superiors warned her to be more careful. At these meetings, the women decided to use poetry to spread the anticolonial message, and used stories of exemplary women throughout history to help make their points.\n\n= Murder on Barbier Street =\nBao Luong’s passionate fight against French rule led her to become involved in an assassination plot. On December 8, 1928, Le van Phat was found in his home on Barbier Street. Le van Phat was known as Lang to the members of the Revolutionary Youth League. Lang was the chairman of the Saigon Provincial regional committee of the Revolutionary Youth League. Lang was accused of forcing a younger member of his cell to become his mistress. He also began abusing power, disrespecting orders, and missing meetings. Bao Luong chaired the meeting where the decision to execute Lang's murder was made. She directed members at the meeting to draw ballots to see who would commit the murder and three men (including Bao Luong's cousin) were selected. Bao Luong drafted a love letter which was used to make sure Lang would be home at the time of the murder. Her cousin and the two other men attempted to kill Lang with poison, before slitting his throat. The Central Committee of the Revolutionary Youth League was against the murder and ordered the Saigon cell to disband. This group went on to become the Communist Party of Indochina. After Bao Luong and her fellow Saigon cell members refused, an anonymous letter was sent to the Republic of Vietnam National Police, known as the Surete, that implicated Bao Luong and other league members in the murder of Lang. \n\n= Imprisonment and later life =\nBao Luong was beaten in prison, as the Surete tried to get her to confess. She was then moved to the Saigon Central Prison, where she awaited trial. At her trial, she spoke out to the French judge about the poor treatment of women in French Indochina and maintained her revolutionary ideas. She was found guilty and sentenced to five years in prison, but her behavior in court added three more years to her sentence. The men who committed the murder were sentenced to death. Her mentor and uncle, Ton Duc Thang, served a short prison sentence before becoming the president of Democratic Republic of Vietnam. \n\nIn prison, a male nurse who cared for Bao Luong fell in love with her. Through an intermediary, the nurse (Nguyen van Thom) asked her family for her hand in marriage. After being questioned by the head of the prison for his plans to marry Bao Luong upon her release, Nguyen van Thom quit. After Bao's release, the two moved to O Mon and had children. She was later encouraged to rejoin the revolution, but denied the invitation to care for her children and in-laws. \n\n= References =\n"}
{"id": "54350911", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54350911", "title": "Bhanwarey", "text": "Bhanwarey\n\nBhanwarey (भँवरे ) (English: 'Bumble Bees') is a 2017 Hindi dark-comedy feature film written, directed and produced by writer/director Shaurya Singh under his banner Sudha Creations. The film production was started in mid 2015 and completed by end of year 2016. The film was released in India on 24 March 2017 to rave reviews and good audience reception.\n\nSet in the late 90s in Delhi, Bhanwarey revolves around three friends and their struggle of survival in a shoddy apartment. It is also the story of their daily problems and how they accidentally get involved in wrongdoings, drugs, a porn racket, news media and to solve these problems they eventually get trapped between the hand of law and a couple of gangster groups.\n\nManoj (Shaurya Singh) and Pushp (Karhan Dev) live together in an apartment in Delhi. Machchinder (Jashan Singh), their third friend lives in the same building as well. While Manoj has a girl friend Soniya (Priyanka Shukla), he is still not settled in the city and is jobless. Whereas Pushp has a job but is pervert by nature.\n\nManoj is trying different methods to cure sexual weakness in him which gets him and his roommate Pushp into trouble.\nOne day Pushp introduces Manoj to Raghav (Puneet Kumar), a childhood friend of his, who is a member of a rock band. While talking to him, Raghav introduces Manoj to a performance enhancement drug which Manoj takes without any precautions and ends up roaming the streets of Delhi, like a ghoul, without any memory of it the next day.\n\nRaghav is a drug addict who is in debt of an underworld don Maqsood bhai (Manoj Bakshi) who has multiple illegal businesses such as Drugs, Porn films, extortion etc. \nWhile Manoj wants to experiment with the drug, Raghav takes Manoj to Maqsood’s den. As both of them didn’t have money, Maqsood forces Manoj into performing in a porn film made by his gang. Maqsood tells them that this film will not be sold in India and will only sell overseas.\n\nContrary to Maqsood’s words, the forthcoming week, the porn movie DVDs spread in the capital.\n\nThe gang members while writing one of the DVDs mistakenly write Maqsood’s important data on the DVD and distribute it. This DVD falls in the hands of Pushp.\n\nInspector Hukum Singh (Padmender Rawat) gets under the radar of his senior police officers for under-performing and is asked to solve this porn racket case, failing of which could cost him his job. Maqsood and his gang members want to retrieve the DVD. Inspector Hukum Singh too is after the boys, specially Manoj after the news leaks into media that some local boy has worked in a porn film. Manoj, Pushp and Machchi get into the hands of Maqsood’s gang while trying to escape from Hukum Singh and media. Machchi handovers the DVD to Maqsood and they manage to escape from Maqsood’s den only to realize that Machchi has handed over the wrong DVD to Maqsood.\n\nManoj, Pushp and Machchinder seek help from a local small time goon Susu Pandey (Matin Khan). But he too has different motives for utilizing the DVD for his own benefits. They run away from Susu Pandey only to get caught by Ins. Hukum Singh and party.\n\nHukum Singh along with his constable beat them black and blue and they narrate the whole story to Hukum Singh. Hukum Singh formulates a plan to catch Maqsood and his gang along with Manoj, Pushp and Machchi.\n\nMaqsood calls Manoj at a secluded warehouse where Machchi fails the plan and falls from the roof where he was hidden. Hukum Singh, Pushp and Raghav come to rescue Manoj and Machchi. Susu Pandey gang too joins the rumble in the warehouse. After a long battle the goons are caught and Manoj’s sexual health problem is solved after he falls into a bagful of Indian herbs known for curing sex problems.\n\nThe DVD is still missing.\n\n\nThe production of the film was started in May 2015 and the film was extensively shot in Delhi and Mumbai over 34 days schedule. The post-production of the movie was stretched through most of year 2016.\n\nThe music for \"Bhanwarey\" is composed by Sourabh Chatterjee and Gaurav Ratnakar. The full audio album was released on 3 March 2017. The music rights are acquired by Mannan Music Entertainment.\n"}
{"id": "1764476", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1764476", "title": "Bibliography of King Arthur", "text": "Bibliography of King Arthur\n\nThis is a bibliography of works about King Arthur, his related world, family, friends or enemies. This bibliography includes works that are notable or are by notable authors.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26934328", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26934328", "title": "California Dream", "text": "California Dream\n\nThe California Dream is the psychological motivation to gain fast wealth or fame in a new land. As a result of the California Gold Rush after 1849, California's name became indelibly connected with the Gold Rush, and fast success in a new world became known as the \"California Dream\". California was perceived as a place of new beginnings, where great wealth could reward hard work and good luck. The notion inspired the idea of an American Dream. California was seen as a lucky place, a land of opportunity and good fortune. It was a powerful belief, underlying many of the accomplishments of the state, and equally potent when threatened. \n\nHistorian H. W. Brands noted that in the years after the Gold Rush, the California Dream spread across the nation:\n\nOvernight, California gained the international reputation as the \"golden state\"—with gold and lawlessness the main themes. \n\nGenerations of immigrants have been attracted by the California Dream. California farmers, oil drillers, movie makers, aerospace corporations and \"dot-com\" entrepreneurs have each had their boom times in the decades after the Gold Rush.\nPart of the \"California Dream\" was \"that every family could have its own private home.\"\n\nAs Starr has pointed out, for many if not most migrants to the golden state, \"the dream outran the reality.\" The Okies of the 1930s \"found their California dream transformed into a nightmare,' notes Walter Stein. As a result, \"the California Dream is a love affair with an idea, a marriage to a myth\" \n\nObservers report a common stereotyped perception that people are happier in California. This perception is anchored in the perceived superiority of the California climate, and is justified to some extent by the fact that Californians are indeed more satisfied with their climate than are Midwesterners, with much of California enjoying a Mediterranean climate. Surveys of students show the advantages of life in California were not reflected in differences in the self-reported overall life satisfaction of those who live there.\n\nHistorian Kevin Starr in his seven-volume history of the state has explored in great depth the \"California Dream\"—the realization by ordinary Californians of the American Dream. California starting in the late 19th century promised the highest possible standard of life for the middle classes, and indeed for the skilled blue collar workers and farm owners as well. Poverty existed, but was concentrated among the migrant farm workers made famous in \"The Grapes of Wrath\", where the Joad family, driven out of the Dust Bowl, searches for the California Dream. By the 1950s the Joads and the other \"Okies\" and \"Arkies\" (migrants from Oklahoma and Arkansas) were achieving the dream too. It was not so much the upper class (who preferred to live in New York and Boston). The California Dream meant an improved and more affordable family life: a small but stylish and airy house marked by a fluidity of indoor and outdoor space, such as the ubiquitous California bungalow and a lush backyard—the stage, that is, for quiet family life in a sunny climate. It meant very good jobs, excellent roads, plentiful facilities for outdoor recreation, and the schools and universities that were the best in the world by the 1940s. James M. Cain, an eastern writer who visited the Golden State, reported in 1933 that the archetypal Californian \"addresses you in easy grammar, completes his sentences, shows familiarity with good manners, and in addition gives you a pleasant smile.\" Cultural phenomena which have fed into the California Dream include the rise of the Hollywood film industry, Silicon Valley, California's aerospace industry, the California wine industry and the Dotcom boom. The phrase has been used in describing Californian's struggles to find a suitable location in the state to achieve success, in 2017, when the cost of living in places like the San Francisco Bay Area were prohibitive.\n\nThe phrase \"Taking the Cure\" was conjured to describe 1950s \"u-haul\" migrants who, after a year or so pined for home. One drive back home was enough to convince them to stay after all.\n\nThe term has been referenced in numerous media, most notably in the song title \"California Dreamin'\", with \"California dreaming\" used in book and film titles that reference some aspect of the California Dream, such as the 2007 film \"California Dreaming\", and the 2005 UK reality TV series \"California Dreaming\". Lawrence Donegan's \"California Dreaming: A Smooth-running, Low-mileage, Cut-price American Adventure\" references the California, (and American) Dream. Also referencing it is poet Christopher Buckley's \"Sleepwalk: California dreamin' and a last dance with the '60s\". Numerous songs have been written about the California Dream.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2575025", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2575025", "title": "Cat Soup", "text": "Cat Soup\n\n, the older sister of , lies very ill in her room. By accident, Nyatta drowns in the bathtub and, whilst being clinically dead, sees his sister leaving the house holding hands with the Japanese version of Ksitigarbha (known as Jizou in Japanese) and proceeds to follow them. Nyatta tries to take his sister back from Jizou but it holds on to her refusing to let go. Nyāko splits in two leaving Jizou with half of her soul while her brother runs away with the other half. Jizou sends a clue about a flower they must search for in order to retrieve the missing half-soul, then walks away with it.\n\nMeanwhile, Nyatta's father finds his son in the bathtub and revives him. Then, all the family members gather in Nyāko's room to find out that she is dead. Nyatta gets closer with the half-soul in his arms and puts it back in his sister's body through her nose. Nyāko wakes up, but she remains despondent and semi-catatonic. After that Nyatta and Nyāko begin their journey (because their mother asks them to go and buy some fried tofu). During their outing they visit the 'Big Whale Circus', the final act of which is a giant penguin-looking bird \"filled\" with various weather, causes a flood of water which covers everything. The two of them end up on an Ark-esque boat with a pig, which they eventually begin to eat (by unzipping his stomach and pulling out butcher slabs). God drains the world of the oceans (by holding up the world so the water on it runs down his arm), leaving the cats and pig stranded in a desert. The pig is beaten to death and bites off Nyatta's arm, which is repaired by a desert-dweller who makes dolls from the pieces of other cats.\n\nTraveling across the desert, they are brought to a house by the smell of food, and are invited inside by a man. They are fed, and when full the man attempts to turn them into soup, attacking them with a pair of scissors. He ends up falling into the cauldron, Nyatta cuts him into pieces with the scissors and the cats escape. Wandering further across the desert dehydrated, Nyatta digs and finds an elephant made of water, which cools them off and travels with them, though the elephant eventually evaporates from the heat. God accidentally stops the flow of time and disrupts space, and the cats play with the time-frozen scenes. Father Time turns time back on, shooting it forward and reversing it, showing various scenes of random events either rapidly going forth in time or back. Eventually the cats find themselves back on their boat in the ocean. They drift into a marsh of metallic plants and creatures, coming across the flower they were seeking. Nyatta places the flower on Nyākos face, which restores her to normal. Together, they go back home.\n\nIn the end, the entire family of cats are gathered in their house leisurely watching TV. Nyatta leaves them to visit the toilet, and while he is gone, the other family members disappear one by one into thin air. The show on the TV also disappears, leaving only a flashing screen behind. Nyatta returns to find everyone gone. Outside the nearby lamppost extinguishes leaving the house in darkness. Finally the movie also \"turns off\", leaving behind a flashing screen of static before the credits roll.\n\nThe characters of Nyāko and Nyatta first appeared in the June 1990 issue of the monthly manga magazine Garo. They also appeared in a series of 27 two-minute television episodes, collectively titled . The series appeared in 1999 as a segment on TV Asahi's .\n\nNekojiru (the artist) was born on January 19, 1967 and died by suicide on May 10, 1998. Her actual name was .\n\n\"Cat Soup\" won an Excellence Prize (Animation Division) at the 2001 Japan Media Arts Festival, the \"Best Short Film\" award at the 2001 Fantasia Festival and the Silver Award for Animation 2003 New York Exposition of Short Film and Video.\n\n"}
{"id": "1648223", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1648223", "title": "Cluttering", "text": "Cluttering\n\nCluttering (also called tachyphemia or tachyphrasia) is a speech and communication disorder characterized by a rapid rate of speech, erratic rhythm, and poor syntax or grammar, making speech difficult to understand.\n\nCluttering is a speech and communication disorder that has also been described as a fluency disorder.\n\nIt is defined as:\"Cluttering is a fluency disorder characterized by a rate that is perceived to be abnormally rapid, irregular, or both for the speaker (although measured syllable rates may not exceed normal limits). These rate abnormalities further are manifest in one or more of the following symptoms: (a) an excessive number of disfluencies, the majority of which are not typical of people with stuttering; (b) the frequent placement of pauses and use of prosodic patterns that do not conform to syntactic and semantic constraints; and (c) inappropriate (usually excessive) degrees of coarticulation among sounds, especially in multisyllabic words\".\n\nStuttering is often misapplied as a common term referring to any dysfluency. It is also often incorrectly applied to normal dysfluency rather than dysfluency from a disorder. Cluttered speech is exhibited by normal speakers, and is often referred to as stuttering. This is especially true when the speaker is nervous, where nervous speech more closely resembles cluttering than stuttering.\n\nCluttering is sometimes confused with stuttering. Both communication disorders break the normal flow of speech, but they are distinct. A stutterer has a coherent pattern of thoughts, but may have a difficult time vocally expressing those thoughts; in contrast, a clutterer has no problem putting thoughts into words, but those thoughts become disorganized during speaking. Cluttering affects not only speech, but also thought patterns, writing, typing, and conversation.\n\nStutterers are usually dysfluent on initial sounds, when beginning to speak, and become more fluent towards the ends of utterances. In contrast, clutterers are most clear at the start of utterances, but their speaking rate increases and intelligibility decreases towards the end of utterances.\n\nStuttering is characterized by struggle behavior, such as overtense speech production muscles. Cluttering, in contrast, is effortless. Cluttering is also characterized by slurred speech, especially dropped or distorted /r/ and /l/ sounds; and monotone speech that starts loud and trails off into a murmur.\n\nA clutterer described the feeling associated with a clutter as:\nCluttering can often be confused with language delay, language disorder, learning disabilities, and attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). Clutterers often have reading and writing disabilities, especially sprawling, disorderly handwriting, which poorly integrate ideas and space.\n\nBecause clutterers have poor awareness of their disorder, they may be indifferent or even hostile to speech-language pathologists. Delayed auditory feedback (DAF) is usually used to produce a more deliberate, exaggerated oral-motor response pattern. Other treatment components include improving narrative structure with story-telling picture books, turn-taking practice, pausing practice, and language therapy.\n\nBattaros was a legendary Libyan king who spoke quickly and in a disorderly fashion. Others who spoke as he did were said to suffer from \"battarismus\". This is the earliest record of the speech disorder of cluttering.\n\nIn the 1960s, cluttering was called \"tachyphemia\", a word derived from the Greek for \"fast speech\". This word is no longer used to describe cluttering because fast speech is not a required element of cluttering.\n\nDeso Weiss described cluttering as the outward manifestation of a \"central language imbalance\".\n\nThe First World Conference on Cluttering was held in May 2007 in Razlog, Bulgaria. It had over 60 participants from North America, Europe, the Middle East and Asia.\n\nWeiss claimed that Battaros, Demosthenes, Pericles, Justinian, Otto von Bismarck, and Winston Churchill were clutterers. He says about these people, \"Each of these contributors to world history viewed his world holistically, and was not deflected by exaggerated attention to small details. Perhaps then, they excelled because of, rather than in spite of, their \n[cluttering].\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33602955", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33602955", "title": "Colorado antiquarian book seminar", "text": "Colorado antiquarian book seminar\n\nThe Colorado Antiquarian Book Seminar, founded in the late 1970s, provides training for dealers in out-of-print, used, and antiquarian books.\n\nThe Seminar was the brainchild of Margaret Knox Goggin, on the faculty (and formerly dean) of the School of Librarianship at the University of Denver. The first session, held at the University in December 1977, was primarily intended for librarians who wished to improve their skills in buying used, out-of-print, and rare books. Twenty-five registrants heard lectures by Goggin, Jacob L. Chernofsky (Editor and Publisher of AB Bookman's Weekly), Lee Ash, and Harry U. Mooney (Collection Development Coordinator, Denver Public Library). The success of the venture encouraged Goggin and Chernofsky to offer an annual seminar beginning in 1979 on the out-of-print and antiquarian book market, \"designed to help librarians throughout the country with a working knowledge of the out-of-print and antiquarian book trade and the role of that market in acquisitions procedures and collection development.\" Nearly 50 students attended the 1979 Seminar, which was oriented toward the needs of librarians; nevertheless, \"a half dozen booksellers also registered — pointing up the need for such a course for booksellers as well as librarians.” Faculty members at the 1979 Seminar included the autograph dealer Mary A. Benjamin, Franklin Gilliam (Brick Row Book Shop, San Francisco), Edwin V. Glaser (a dealer specializing in rare medical books, based in Sausalito, CA), Katharine Kyes Leab (Editor of \"American Book Prices Current\"), Murray S. Martin (Penn State), Bernard M. Rosenthal (a San Francisco-based dealer specializing in early printed books), and Florian Shasky (Stanford University Libraries).\n\nThe Seminar became an annual event held in August at the University of Denver under the co-directorship of Goggin and Chernofsky, its title settling down as \"A Workshop-Seminar on the Out-of-Print and Antiquarian Book Market for Booksellers and Librarians,\" designed \"to meet the needs of acquisitions librarians, those responsible for developing collections, rare book librarians, as well as booksellers and prospective booksellers.\". The Seminar lecturers varied somewhat from year to year, but a core faculty emerged that included, besides Jake Chernofsky and Margaret Goggin, Michael Ginsberg (an Americana dealer based in Sharon, MA), Ed Glaser, Robert W. Topp (Hermitage Book Shop, Denver), and Jake Zeitlin (Zeitlin & Ver Brugge, Los Angeles). Other stalwart faculty members were to include Mary Francis Ciletti, Lois Harvey, Jennifer Larson, Jean Parmer, and Richard Weatherford. Though there were always a few librarians in attendance, by the mid-1980s, the typical Seminar student was a used, out-of-print, or rare bookseller (or someone who wished to become one).\n\nThe Seminar was soon attracting over 100 registrants annually. It ran extra sessions at the University of Florida in March 1988 and March 1994, in addition to the annual sessions in Colorado each August. Its success was chronicled in a series of annual articles by \"AB Bookman's Weekly\"'s Associate Editor, Rebecca Myers, often titled with some variant of \"Book is a four-letter word.\" Beginning in 1985, a keynote speaker began the proceedings on Sunday night. Notable keynoters included John Y. Cole (1985; Center for the Book, Library of Congress); Marcus A. McCorison (1987; Director and Librarian, American Antiquarian Society); Robert Rosenthal (1989; head of special collections, University of Chicago); and Louis Weinstein (1999; Heritage Book Shop, Los Angeles). By the late 1980s, the Seminar had established a tradition of asking a different specialist dealer to join the faculty each year: Diane deBlois in 1988 (aGatherin', Wynanskill, NY; printed ephemera); Patterson Smith in 1990 (Montclair, NJ; true crime); John Crichton in 1991 (Brick Row Book Shop, San Francisco: literature); Priscilla Juvelis in 1996 (Boston; artists' books); and so on.\n\nMargaret Knox Goggin stepped down as co-director of the Seminar after the 1994 Gainesville and Colorado Seminars, and the Denver connection weakened. The 1993 Seminar was hosted by the Colorado School of Mines in Golden; in 1995 the Seminar moved to Colorado College, in Colorado Springs, Colorado (where it has been, ever since). Chernofsky continued as director, with Jennifer Larson as unnamed co-director; but in the later 1990s his magazine, AB Bookman's Weekly, was faltering, unable to cope with the rise of internet bookselling; \"AB\" ceased publication in 1999, and Chernofsky sold the Seminar to faculty members Michael Ginsberg, Edwin Glaser, Lois Harvey, and Jennifer Larson (later, Daniel De Simone and Robert Rulon-Miller, Jr. jointly purchased a 1/5 share of the Seminar from the other shareholders). The Seminar was slow to refocus its presentations on what students most wanted to learn: more about researching and pricing used general-interest books; more about selling on eBay and the internet; less about older and more valuable antiquarian books. Attendance declined; by 2004, the average number of participants had fallen to well under 50.\n\nThe Seminar reinvigorated itself in the mid-2000s, with faculty additions Terry Belanger, Thomas E. Congalton (Between the Covers Rare Books, Gloucester City, NJ), Daniel De Simone (Rosenwald Curator, Library of Congress), internet specialist Dan Gregory (Between the Covers), Kevin Royal Johnson (Royal Books, Baltimore), and Robert Rulon-Miller, Jr. (Rulon-Miller Books, St Paul, MN) joining Seminar stalwarts Ginsberg and Glaser. Participant response was enthusiastic, and attendance began to climb. The Seminar's title was given its present form: Colorado Antiquarian Book Seminar (CABS) and a new website, and the proprietors relinquished their shares to a tax-exempt, not-for-profit corporation called the Antiquarian Book School Foundation. The current director of CABS is Rob Rulon-Miller and the current local coordinator at Colorado College is Kathy Lindeman; the chairman of the Foundation's board is Rob Rulon-Miller. The ongoing faculty comprises bookseller Lorne W. Bair (Winchester, VA); Terry Belanger (Charlottesville, VA); Brian Cassidy (Silver Spring, MD), Maria Lin (Saint Paul, MN); Katherine Reagan (Curator ofRare Books and Manuscripts, Cornell University, Ithaca, NY), Rob Rulon-Miller (Saint Paul, MN) and Garrett Scott (Ann Arbor, MI).\n\nSince 1980, nearly 3,000 persons have attended the Seminar, which throughout its existence has had the strong support of the Antiquarian Booksellers' Association of America (ABAA): CABS board and faculty members over the years have included ABAA Presidents Thomas E. Congalton, Edwin V. Glaser, Michael Ginsberg, Bernard M. Rosenthal, Robert Rulon-Miller Jr, John Thomson, and others. In recent years, scholarships to CABS have been provided not only by ABAA (Woodburn Scholarships) but also by AbeBooks, Biblio.com, Bibliopolis, IOBA Independent Online Booksellers Association, and the Rocky Mountain Antiquarian Booksellers Association (RMABA) as well as by the faculty themselves. Most of the current attendees are booksellers (or prospective booksellers), but librarians and book collectors sometimes attend, as well.\n\nNow in its 40th year, the Colorado Antiquarian Book Seminar is the oldest, continuously operated educational institution in the world for the antiquarian book trade, predating Rare Book School in Virginia, which was partially modeled on the Colorado Seminar, by nearly five years. Of the nearly 3,000 or so graduates of the Seminar, a remarkably high percentage of them are still involved in books, either as booksellers, librarians, and/or collectors.\n"}
{"id": "11672606", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11672606", "title": "Conservation and restoration of parchment", "text": "Conservation and restoration of parchment\n\nThe conservation and restoration of parchment constitutes the care and treatment of parchment materials which have cultural and historical significance. Typically undertaken by professional book and document conservators, this process can include preventative measures which protect against future deterioration as well as specific treatments to alleviate changes already caused by agents of deterioration. \n\nParchment is the skin of an animal, usually sheep, calf or goat, which has been dehaired, processed with a lime solution and stretched under tension. The dried material is a thin membrane which is most commonly used as a writing surface, but can also be used to make other items like bookbindings and drumheads. Throughout Europe, parchment was the primary writing substrate from its development in the 2nd century BCE through the Middle Ages, though it is used through the present day for various official documents. Typically parchment made from calfskin is called vellum, though the term can also be used to refer to very fine quality parchment made from the skins of other animals. For the purposes of conservation and restoration, the term parchment is used in reference to vellum objects, as the terms have been used interchangeably throughout time to refer to objects with the same conservation concerns. \n\nParchment has unique structural qualities which differentiate it from paper-based materials. Typically, parchment is resistant to mechanical damage like tears or creasing, though it is easily susceptible to damage from mold and high temperatures. Parchment is also highly hygroscopic in nature, meaning that changes in relative humidity can cause irreversible variations to its structural makeup. These specific qualities dictate the conservation and restoration treatments required for parchment. \n\nMost skins used for parchment are between 1 – 3 mm in thickness before processing. Animal skin used for parchment all has the same basic structure, with slight variations due to the species, age and diet of the specific animal. Skin is composed of innumerable fibrils made up of the protein collagen, which are held in bundles that interweave in a three dimensional manner through the skin. The fibrous material is composed of many long chain molecules of collagen, which can react with certain environmental factors. One universal property of collagen is that it exhibits sudden shrinkage when heated in water, starting at 65°C. Prolonged exposure to alkali, like in parchment liming process, changes the amino acids, consequently dropping shrinkage temperatures as low as 55°C. \n\nOnce it is removed from the animal, the skin is temporarily preserved, either by drying or liberal application of salt, until it can be processed. The skin is then immersed in water for 48 hours, which cleans and rehydrates it. This step also removes the non-collagenous materials, like hyaluronic acid, dermaten sulphate and plasma proteins. The skin is then soaked in a lime or alkali solution, known as the liming process. In the 19th century, chemicals were added to speed up the liming process, which resulted in weaker parchments. These added compounds sometimes reacted to produce gypsum, giving the parchment a characteristic gray hue. The skin is then stretched in suspension on a frame, constricting it as it dries. This ensures even contraction across the entire parchment which ensures that it will remain flat when dried. After being prepared, parchment is sometimes coated so that it is more receptive to pigment and ink. Historical coatings, which include chalk, egg whites and matte paint, must be taken into consideration as a meaningful part of the preservation and conservation plan. \n\nThe manufacturing process, which removes the skin's natural fats and oils, means that parchment is more reactive to moisture and relative humidity than other skin-based material. After being stretched, parchment has an inherent desire to revert to its original animal shape, especially if left unrestrained or exposed to repeated changes in relative humidity.\n\nParchment is usually positively identified by sight, sometimes with the assistance of a hand lens or microscope. Visible hair follicle pattern, veining, scars, bruises and sometimes fat deposits all help confirm the animal origin of the material. Additional light sources including ultraviolet lights, can make these properties more easily identifiable. \n\nSometimes visual examination is not sufficient to distinguish parchment from certain types of highly calendered papers. Misidentification of these materials can lead to inappropriate preservation methods or conservation treatments. Analytical testing, which involves removing a small piece of parchment, can be done by or under the supervision of a professional conservator-restorer to ensure positive identification. One type of analytical testing involves examining the parchment specimen under a light microscope or scanning electron microscopy. A simple flame test can also be done on the parchment specimen; true parchment will emit the meaty smell of burned protein, while other look-alike materials will smell like paper or wood.\n\nChanges in relative humidity can cause parchment to change shape, especially if movement is restrained by a frame or mount at certain parts of the object, which leads to uneven distortion. This distortion can result in cockling and destabilization of any pigments affixed to the parchment. Low humidity levels can cause parchment to desiccate. \nDirect water contact and excessive moisture in the environment can cause structural problems for parchment including: expansion of object; discoloration; alteration of surface coatings; gelatinization of skin; and realignment of fibers. \nAtmospheric oxygen reacts with the chemical composition of parchment, which subsequently changes the physical properties of the object over time. \nMold is a probable consequence of water damage to parchment, especially when the object is not dried within 48 hours of the initial contact with water. \nHeat in excess of the ideal storage conditions can cause damage to collagen structure, irreversible contraction and alteration of surface materials in parchment objects. \nLower wavelength and ultraviolet light lead to degradation of the collagen structure and photodiscoloration, usually causing yellowing of parchment. Parchment exposed to UV light can also have a photochemical reaction causing it to become brittle.\nConsolidation of media on parchment, such as those found in illuminated manuscripts, is compromised by the instability of the parchment substrate. Excessive flexing or chemical changes in the parchment can lead to loss of pigment and text. \nParchment which has been adhered to a rigid mount for storage or display is unable to expand and contract, as its natural tendency. This poor storage technique can lead to tears, perforations and loss. Parchment stored in an unregulated and inconsistent environment is more susceptible to damage. \n\nProper storage environments can help ward off structural, chemical and environmental changes which affects the long-term preservation of parchment. Storage factors must take into account the factors of the particular parchment object, including its condition, age, storage history and plans for use. Illuminated manuscripts and composite parchment objects, which may include seals and ribbons, may have additional storage needs. A consistent storage environment is crucial for the long-term stability of parchment, which is especially vulnerable to changes in humidity, temperature and other environmental factors. \n\nMicroenvironments are less expensive ways to provide consistent storage environments for parchment if the external storage conditions are not ideal. Moisture sensitive parchments can be stored in a Plexiglas sandwich by inserting the matted parchment between two sheets of acrylic and taping off all sides. Parchment can also be stored in envelopes constructed out of polyester sheets. \n\nFor the long-term preservation of organic material like parchment, the ideal temperature range is 10-15°C with a relative humidity level of 30-50%. The ideal storage and display environment is oxygen-free, as oxygen prevalence has been shown to react with collagen over time, leading to increased brittleness of parchment. Oxygen-free storage and display cases are filled with inert gas as well as a chemical substance that reacts as an absorber if any stray oxygen leaks into the encasement. \n\nAll conservation and restoration treatments of parchment objects should follow the conduct set forth in American Institute for Conservation's Code of Ethics and Guidelines for Practice. The hazards of specific treatments need to be weighed against the benefits, as many traditional liquid-based conservation techniques can pose risks to parchment.\n\nPrevious repairs and conservation treatments are removed if it is determined that the parchment is in good condition and that the repair is not of historic importance to the parchment. Dried out patches are removed via cleaning and humidification techniques. Parchment objects that have been attached to mounts are removed with a sharpened lifting tool and a small amount of moisture. Previous laminations, like Goldbeater's skin and Mipofolie, can sometimes be removed with solvents and mechanical techniques, though this removal technique can risk additional damage to the original parchment. \n\nSurface cleaning of parchment has been developed after methods used for cleaning paper, with a few key differences related to the structural and chemical properties of parchment. For the most part, chemical treatments are ineffective and some, like hypochlorites and methyl bromide, can denaturalize parchment. Prior to cleaning, any flaking or vulnerable media is consolidated to ensure it does not detach from the parchment substrate. Consolidation of parchment media is undertaken by applying various dilute adhesives like isinglass, gelatin or parchment size through brush application or by the use of an ultrasonic humidifcation apparatus. \n\nIf their presence is determined upon examination, insects and pests are eliminated and the parchment disinfected. An appropriate round of fumigation in an autoclave is used to remove pests and sterilize the object. Dry and wet cleaning techniques can both be used effectively on parchment objects. Mechanical cleaning using erasers and other abrasive tools is used to remove mildew and dirt. Surface cleaning of parchment is typically completed using white vinyl erasers (solid and grated) and confined to areas where no media is present. Water baths, which sometimes use neutral detergents or alcohol as additives, can be used to clean as well as prepare the parchment for stretching as part of the conservation process. Another wet cleaning method, which is especially useful for removing mold and mildew, uses a cotton swab covered in fluid, usually denatured alcohol, ethanol or saliva. Laser cleaning may provide a non-contact cleaning process, though conservation labs throughout Europe still mostly use traditional wet and dry cleaning methods for parchment.\n\nHumidification is a parchment conservation treatment which involves the controlled and monitored increase in relative humidity. Humidified parchments are more flexible, which will allow for corrections to distortions like cockling, puckering and changes in original size. Some methods of humidification are: humidification chambers: moisture chambers with ultrasonic humidifier, moisture chambers with steam/ultrasonic mist; and application of alcohol and water. Localized humidification is sometimes used to treat specific folds or creases in parchment objects. \n\nAfter humidification, drying techniques are necessary to ensure that the parchment lays flat and does not suffer additional moisture-related issues. The specific method is dependent on the condition of the object, as well as the humidification process utilized. Some of the most common methods include:\n\nLocalized creases are eased with a solution of 80% to 90% isopropyl alcohol and water, which is applied to the creases directly with a cotton swab and then gently pulled flat by hand. The Alcohol-Water mixture is azeotropic, meaning both components evaporate simultaneously. The solution has a lower surface tension than just water, which causes the fibers to suffer less shrinkage.\n\nSewing tears is not recommended as a conservation treatment, unless it is replacing a sewn portion original to the object. Correcting non-original splits, tears, perforations and losses in parchment requires careful consideration of its specific condition. For losses that don't require much support, transparent membranes, such as fish skin or sausage casing, are placed over the damaged area with an adhesive. Infill materials, including new parchment, reconstituted parchment and Japanese paper, are used to repair losses requiring greater structural support. All infill materials have some conservation concerns, as they will react differently to environmental factors than the original parchment. \n\nParchment which has been accidentally exposed to excess moisture or water is extremely susceptible to mold, mechanical damage and irreversible dimensional changes. Emergencies often affect large quantities of objects, therefore the mass treatment of objects usually includes freezing or freeze-drying as the first step. As time permits, parchment object are then thawed and dried using more traditional measures. \n\nThe United States Declaration of Independence, Constitution and the Bill of Rights, collectively known as the Charters of Freedom, were housed in metal and glass encasements, filled with helium gas, from 1952 to 2001. In 1951, the National Bureau of Standards reported that an inert gas environment would be the best means of preserving the Charters of Freedom. In 1982, the National Archives and Records Administration partnered with the Jet Propulsion Laboratory on a 9-year project which determined that the encasement glass was deteriorating. Upon the issuing of this report, it was decided that new encasements and conservation treatments were needed for the long-term preservation of the Charters of Freedom. The documents were thoroughly examined for signs of deterioration and past restorations, all of which were thoroughly documented in condition reports. \n\nThe first step of treatment stabilized the ink of the text using a gelatin adhesive. The dirt and grime were then cleaned from the parchments, though original intentional marks were left alone. The Constitution and the Bill of Rights were then humidified and dried under tension to flatten the parchments. The Declaration of Independence, which has been damaged by frequent handling and exposure, was not humidified because of its increased moisture sensitivity. All the parchments were then installed into new titanium and aluminum encasements, developed by the National Institute of Standards and Technology, which are filled with inert argon gas. The current environmental conditions of the Charters of Freedom encasements is monitored by scientists and conservators for signs of possible deterioration agents. \n\nIn 1731, one of four surviving copies of the 1215 Magna Carta, known as the Canterbury Magna Carta, was partially damaged in a fire at its temporary storage location at Ashburnham House. Damage included shrinkage and discoloration of the parchment substrate, though the ink text was still legible. In the 1830s, British Museum staff attempted a restoration, using chemicals to treat the parchment and unintentionally rendering the text illegible. \n\nIn 2014, the British Library undertook a multispectral imaging project to determine if the text on the damaged document could be recovered. Analysis under ultraviolet light allowed scientists and conservators to see text that was invisible to the naked eye. This new technology allows the document to be used for continued research purposes, despite the previous botched restoration.\n\n"}
{"id": "33962158", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33962158", "title": "Context art", "text": "Context art\n\nThe term Context art () was introduced through the seminal exhibition and an accompanying publication \"Kontext Kunst. The Art of the 90s\" curated by Peter Weibel at the Neue Galerie im Künstlerhaus Graz (Austria) in 1993 (02.10.–07.11.1993).\n\nBoth exhibition and publication aimed to establish grounds for recognizing a new form of artistic practice emerging in the early 1990s. The presentation displayed different approaches though all shared an interest in the use of methods of contextualization to reveal connections between the art works and their conditions of production, whether these were formal, social, or ideologically defined. Institutional critique, feminist positions, later also critiques of precarious economic conditions and issues of globalization, all closely related to social and political changes, became relevant subjects of artistic production.\n\n“It is no longer purely about critiquing the art system, but about critiquing reality and analyzing and creating social processes. In the ’90s, non-art contexts are being increasingly drawn into the art discourse. Artists are becoming autonomous agents of social processes, partisans of the real. The interaction between artists and social situations, between art and non-art contexts has led to a new art form, where both are folded together: Context art. The aim of this social construction of art is to take part in the social construction of reality.” \n\nIt might be due to the fact that the term was introduced under the German translation \"KontextKunst\" instead of \"Context Art\" or its likewise politically tended orientation (see Maria Lind’s reference), but it never spread far beyond Europe’s language based barriers. Instead vaguely similar strategies were labeled as \"Models of Participatory Practice\" in 1998 by Christian Kravagna’s attempt to define the field or the later appearing and quite moderate Relational Art based on the 2002 book \"Relational Aesthetics\" by Nicolas Bourriaud. \n\nThe accompanying catalog is described to document ”a wide-ranging exhibition designed to illustrate the emergence over the past decade of a new international art movement, .. “ featuring “… an anthology of 22 substantial essays (some reprinted) discussing from diverse perspectives the artistic issues and social and political themes that distinguish \"Context Art\" from related forms of conceptual and installation art…. “.\n\nFareed Armaly, Cosima von Bonin, Tom Burr, Clegg & Guttmann, Meg Cranston, Mark Dion, Peter Fend, Andrea Fraser, Inspection Medhermeneutics, Ronald Jones, Louise Lawler, Thomas Locher, Dorit Margreiter, Kasimir Malewitsch, Katrin von Maltzahn, Regina Möller, Reinhard Mucha, Christian Philipp Müller, Anton Olschwang, Hirsch Perlman, Dan Peterman, Adrian Piper, Mathias Poledna, Stephan Prina, Florian Pumhösl, Gerwald Rockenschaub, Julia Scher, Oliver Schwarz, Jason Simon, Rudolf Stingel, Lincoln Tobier, Olga Tschernyschewa, Christopher Williams, Peter Zimmermann, Heimo Zobernig \n"}
{"id": "33011431", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33011431", "title": "Cupid Making His Arch", "text": "Cupid Making His Arch\n\nCupid Making His Bow (c. 1533–1535) is a painting by the Italian late Renaissance artist Parmigianino. It is housed in the Kunsthistorisches Museum, Vienna, Austria.\n\nThe work appears in the inventory of Francesco Baiardo in Parma, who was a friend and patron of Parmigianino. Late Renaissance art biographer Giorgio Vasari writes that Baiardo had commissioned the \" Cupido che fabbrica di sua mano un arco\".\n\nThe painting was inherited by Marcantonio Cavalca and later went to Antonio Pérez, secretary of state of Philip II of Spain, who brought it with him to Spain. In 1579 Pérez fell in disgrace, and was forced to sell the painting to an envoy of emperor Rudolf II, Holy Roman Emperor. It was however blocked by the Spanish crown, and could be acquired and arrive to Prague, together with Correggio's \"Jupiter and Io \" and \"Ganymede Abducted by the Eagle\", in 1603. It was transferred to Vienna's Schatzkammer in 1631.\n\nA preparatory drawing for Cupid's head is in the Cabinet des Dessins of the Louvre (n. 1662). The work was frequently copied and used as a model by numerous artists. There are copies by Joseph Heintz the Elder and Rubens in the Alte Pinakothek of Munich.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14388291", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14388291", "title": "Dominican Party", "text": "Dominican Party\n\nThe Dominican Party (, PD) was the \"de facto\" only political party in the Dominican Republic during the dictatorship of Rafael Trujillo, who ruled the country from 1930 to 1961. Its symbol was a palm tree.\n\nThe Dominican Party was founded on 2 August 1931, a year after Trujillo came to power. It was an outgrowth of the \"Patriotic Coalition of Citizens\" that supported Trujillo's run for president. Soon afterward, it was proclaimed to be the only legal party.\n\nOn 16 August 1935, the HIN radio station, known as \"The Voice of the Dominican Party\", was opened. It was dedicated to serving as the media propagator of the activities of the Dominican Party.\n\nThe insignia of the Party had a motto that coincided with Trujillo's initials:\n\n\nLater, he added: Moralidad (Morality) = Molina.\n\nOfficially, Trujillo was only president from 1930 until 1938 and from 1942 until 1952, and Minister of Foreign Affairs from 1953 until 1961. However, for 30 years he held the real power as leader of the Dominican Party and Generalissimo of the Dominican Army. In these roles, he was able to ensure that when he was not actually president, the position was held by family members or politicians allied to him: Jacinto Peynado (President from 1938 until 1940), Manuel de Jesús Troncoso de la Concha (President from 1940 until 1942), his brother Hector (President from 1952 until 1960), and Joaquín Balaguer (took office as president in 1960; was president at the time of Trujillo's death). In this way, for the 31 years of his rule, he was able to maintain all governing power in the nation while appearing to be honorable and only hold power for 18 years.\n\nAll adult citizens of the Dominican Republic were required to be members of the party. They needed to carry \"[the] three strikes\" ()\n\n\nThe party had no real ideology other than support for Trujillo. It lingered for a brief time after Trujillo's assassination in 1961. However, it was apparent there was no place for the party in the more open society, and it was finally wound up in January 1962.\n\nAt various times, Trujillo allowed other political parties to coexist. However, this was done only to impress foreign observers that democratization was progressing, and to allow Trujillo to monitor opponents.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6820199", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6820199", "title": "Encounters (anthology)", "text": "Encounters (anthology)\n\nEncounters is the fourth short story anthology published by the Canberra Speculative Fiction Guild. Printed in 2004 and edited by Maxine McArthur and Donna Maree Hanson, it contains stories from several Australian speculative fiction authors.\n\nThe collection contains the following stories:\n\nAll stories are illustrated by Les Petersen.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39623516", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39623516", "title": "Feminist art movement", "text": "Feminist art movement\n\nThe feminist art movement refers to the efforts and accomplishments of feminists internationally to produce art that reflects women's lives and experiences, as well as to change the foundation for the production and reception of contemporary art. It also sought to bring more visibility to women within art history and art practice. Corresponding with general developments within feminism, and often including such self-organizing tactics as the consciousness-raising group, the movement began in the 1960s and flourished throughout the 1970s as an outgrowth of the so-called second wave of feminism. It has been called \"the most influential international movement of any during the postwar period.\"\n\nThe 1960s was period of civil rights and gay and lesbian rights movements and protests against war. It was also a period when women artists wanted to gain equal rights as men within the established art world, influenced by modernist movements \"utopian ideals,\" and to create feminist art, often in non-traditional ways, to help \"change the world.\"\n\nLouise Bourgeois (1911-2010) and German-American Eva Hesse (1936-1970) explore some of the themes in feminist art, like domestic life, personal experience and the women's body.\n\nOn 20 July 1964 Yoko Ono, an avant-garde artist, singer, and activist, presented \"Cut Piece\" at the Yamaichi Concert Hall, Kyoto, Japan where she sat still as parts of her clothing were cut off of her, which meant to protest violence against women. She performed it again at Carnegie Hall in 1965. Her son, Sean, participated in the artist performance on 15 September 2013 at the Théâtre le Ranelagh in Paris. \"The Guardian\"'s Jonathan Jones considered it \"one of the 10 most shocking performance artworks ever.\"\n\nWomen artists, motivated by feminist theory and the feminist movement, began the feminist art movement in the 1970s. Feminist art represented a shift away from modernism, where art made by women was put in a different class to works made by men. The movement cultivated a new feminist consciousness, a \"freedom to respond to life... [Unimpeded] by traditional male mainstream.\" Or, as Griselda Pollock and Roszika Parker put it—a separation of Art with a capital \"A\" from art made by women produced a \"feminine stereotype\".\n\nThis demand for equality in representation was codified in the Art Workers' Coalition's (AWC) Statement of Demands, which was developed in 1969 and published in definitive form in March 1970. The AWC was set up to defend the rights of artists and force museums and galleries to reform their practices. While the coalition sprung up as a protest movement following Greek kinetic sculptor Panagiotis \"Takis\" Vassilakis's physical removal of his work Tele-Sculpture(1960) from a 1969 exhibition at the Museum of Modern Art, New York, it quickly issued a broad list of demands to 'art museums in general'.\n\nAlongside calls for free admission, better representation of ethnic minorities, late openings and an agreement that galleries would not exhibit an artwork without the artist's consent, the AWC also demanded that museums 'encourage female artists to overcome centuries of damage done to the image of the female as an artist by establishing equal representation of the sexes in exhibitions, museum purchases and on selection committees'.\n\nThere are also feminist forms of postmodernism which emerged in the 1980s. The feminist art movement grew out of the struggle to find a new way to express sexual, material, social and political aspects of life, and femininity. Feminist art movements emerged in the United States; Europe, including Spain; Australia; Canada; and Latin America in the 1970s.\n\nSince then, there are women's art movements in Sweden, Denmark and Norway, Russia, and Japan. Women artists from Asia, Africa and particularly Eastern Europe emerged in large numbers onto the international art scene in the late 1980s and 1990s as contemporary art became popular worldwide.\n\nMajor exhibitions of contemporary women artists include \"WACK! Art and the Feminist Revolution\" curated by Connie Butler, SF MOMA, 2007, \"Global Feminisms\" curated by Linda Nochlin and Maura Reilly at the Brooklyn Museum, 2007, \"Rebelle\", curated by Mirjam Westen at MMKA, Arnheim, 2009, \"Kiss Kiss Bang Bang! 45 Years of Art and Feminism\" curated by Xavier Arakistan at Bilbao Fine Arts Museum, 2007, \"Elles at Centre Pompidou\" in Paris (2009-2011), which also toured to Seattle Art Museum. have been increasingly international in their selection. This shift is also reflected in journals set up in the 1990s like \"n.paradoxa\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "210265", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=210265", "title": "Garbage Pail Kids", "text": "Garbage Pail Kids\n\nGarbage Pail Kids is a series of sticker trading cards produced by the Topps Company, originally released in 1985 and designed to parody the \"Cabbage Patch Kids\" dolls which were popular at the time.\n\nEach sticker card features a Garbage Pail Kid character having some comical abnormality, deformity, and/or suffering a terrible fate with a humorous, word play character name such as Adam Bomb or Blasted Billy. Two versions of each card were produced, with variations featuring the same artwork but a different character name denoted by an \"a\" or \"b\" letter after the card number. The sticker fronts are die-cut so just the kid with its nameplate and the GPK logo can be peeled from the backing. Many of the card backs feature puzzle pieces that form giant murals while other flip-side subjects vary greatly among the series, from humorous licenses and awards to comic strips and, in more recent releases, \"Facebook\" profiles.\n\nFifteen original series (\"OS\") of regular trading cards were released in the United States, with various sets released in other countries. Two large-format card editions were also released, as well as a set of fold-out posters. All-New Series (ANS) sets were introduced in 2003, Flashback re-releases began in 2010, and a Brand-New Series (BNS) was announced for 2012 with Brand New series 2, Chrome OS1, and BNS3 following in 2013. A new format was released in 2014 using the year to designate the edition, followed by the release name of Series 1, which had an Olympics-style format. In 2016, the format was changed again to themed sets that spoofed different pop-culture topics.\n\nThe series was the brainchild of Topps consultant and Pulitzer Prize-winning cartoonist Art Spiegelman who came up with the product idea after the success of his earlier creations, Garbage Candy and Wacky Packages. The concept originally began as an unreleased Wacky Packages title, but the management at Topps thought it would be a good idea for a separate spin-off series. Spiegelman and fellow cartoonist Mark Newgarden worked together as the editors and art directors of the project, Len Brown was the manager, and the first run of the cards was drawn exclusively by artist John Pound. They were first issued in 1985. Following the initial success of the cards, several additional artists and writers were brought in to contribute to the series, including Jay Lynch, Tom Bunk, and James Warhola, among others.\n\nThe cards were also known as \"Bukimi Kun\" [\"\", Mr. Creepy] in Japan, \"The Garbage Gang\" in Australia and New Zealand versions, \"\" [The Garbage Gang] in Spain, \"Havurat Ha-Zevel\" [\"\", \"The Garbage Gang\"] in Israel, \"\" [Trashlings] in Latin America, \"/\" [Trash Gang/Crazymania] in Brazil, \" [Snotlings] in Italy, \" [The Filthies] in France and Belgium, and \"\" [The Totally Broken Kids] in Germany. \n\nA smaller-sized card format was released in Australia and New Zealand. Each pack contained three stickers and the \"peel here\" arrow pointed to the top left area since there was no die-cut scoring. Initially in New Zealand a 6th series of the Garbage Pail Kids was released as a market test (this version was a mix of the United States series 6 and 7). After this success, Series 1 was released in Australia and New Zealand known as \"The Garbage Gang\" and was identical to the United States version (albeit smaller in size). The first series was released in Australia and New Zealand in 1989 with different versions: the Australian stickers were darker, had a different banner, and some of the names were changed to reflect cultural differences. From Series 2 onward, the same version was released in Australia and New Zealand. Series 4 was the last release of \"The Garbage Gang\".\n\nThe commercial success of the trading cards led to the production of a live-action movie, \"The Garbage Pail Kids Movie\", in 1987. An animated television series was also created, but its initial scheduled broadcast in the US was postponed due to parental complaints. The show did make a brief appearance on US television years after it was originally intended to air and was also briefly aired in Europe. The movie was released on DVD by MGM Home Entertainment on July 12, 2005 (the original VHS had been distributed by Paramount), and the cartoon series was later also released on DVD by CBS Home Entertainment on April 4, 2006 (with distribution by Paramount). A similar set of 160 trading cards called the Sloppy Slobs was released in Italy in 1993.\n\nDuring the height of the card series' popularity, Garbage Pail Kids were banned in many schools. One of the main reasons for the ban was that teachers cited them as distractions during class.\n\nTopps was sued by the makers of Cabbage Patch Kids, Coleco, for trademark infringement. As part of the out-of-court settlement, Topps agreed to modify the appearance of the Garbage Pail Kids to remove the resemblance between the characters, and to change the logo design. Production of the cards themselves continued, but by 1988 sales had dwindled and a planned 16th series was never produced.\n\nIn 2003, Topps reintroduced Garbage Pail Kids with all-new artwork, dubbed the All-New Series (\"ANS\"). ANS1 was largely made up of artwork intended for release in the 1980s, but 2004's ANS2 featured brand new concepts. Unique numbers on the backs of silver- and gold-foil insert cards could be redeemed online at the official Garbage Pail Kids website where visitors build and \"gross out\" their own Garbage Pail Kids; as the number of unique code numbers applied to the character increases, the more gross it becomes. Less than six months later, ANS3 was released.\n\nIn 2005, Topps celebrated the 20th anniversary of the GPK franchise with special \"Sketch Card\" original art inserts for its ANS4 set. These were limited to one randomly inserted card per hobby-exclusive box (available only from specialty retailers) and featured original artwork by series regulars John Pound, Tom Bunk, and Jay Lynch, as well as guest artists Strephon Taylor, John Czop, Don Perlin, and Justin Green. Although a regular to the series with over 35 paintings, Luis Diaz was not involved in the sketch cards due to a previous financial dispute with Topps from years earlier.\n\nIn 2006, ANS5 was released with 40 more new kids (each with an a/b twin), followed by ANS6 in early 2007. January 2008 saw the release of ANS7 which expanded the base set to 55 new characters and was the last set to feature new artwork until 2010's Flashback Series 1 subset of six previously unpublished kids.\n\nThe ANS cards differ from the original series (\"OS\") in a number of ways, the most obvious being the upgraded quality of card stock with a glossy protective surface. The ANS releases also changed the card numbering format: OS cards used a continuous numbering pattern so that each new set would pick up where the last one ended (e.g. OS1 ended at 41a/b and OS2 picked up at 42a/b while ANS reset the numbering back to 1a/b with each subsequent release). Each ANS also featured special \"chase cards\" randomly inserted in packs; for example, foil cards show characters from the original series (with modified artwork due to the lawsuit), \"Scratch 'n Stink\" cards, collectible card game cards, Temporary tattoos, 3D pop-up cards, alphabet cards, activity cards, magnets, lenticular \"Loco Motion\" cards, and die-cut jigsaw puzzle cards, along with special bonus cards available only at participating retailers in either \"bonus boxes\" or rack-packs; these bonus stickers were the first cards not to have a twin set.\n\nTopps released a 25th anniversary \"Flashback\" set on February 24, 2010, featuring reprints of characters from the original 1985–87 GPK series (eight each from OS1 to OS8) plus six previously unpublished \"lost\" characters and 10 \"Where are They Now\" cards showing classic GPKs drawn as they would appear today. Packs contained randomly inserted chase cards including lenticular Loco Motion, authentic printing plates, four levels of parallels, and hand-drawn artist sketches by pop-culture artists including Layron DeJarnette, Brent Engstrom, Dave Gross, Mark Pingitore, Joe Simko, Colin Walton, Fred Wheaton, Jeff Zapata, and veteran GPK artists Tom Bunk and Jay Lynch.\n\nA second Flashback set was released on February 23, 2011, with 65 more OS reprints from series 1 to 9 plus five more \"lost\" kids, 10 new \"Where are They Now\" cards, five 3D cards (resembling holograms but in full colour), unique artist sketches, and 10 \"Adam Mania\" cards showing variants of Adam Bomb's iconic mushroom cloud, plus parallels of the base and Adam Mania sets.\n\nGPK Flashback Series 3 followed on November 2, 2011, with 65 OS reprints, four \"lost\" kids, 10 \"WatN?\" cards, five 3D cards, 10 Adam Mania cards, artist sketches, and parallels.\n\nTopps recently released a book that showcases the first five series. The cover depicts a pack from the very first series released back in 1985. Each card is displayed with the \"a\" name and the \"b\" name on the bottom corner of the page.\n\nIn 2012, Topps announced it would reboot the Garbage Pail Kids franchise with new character and content themes more reminiscent of the original 1980s series in a set called \"Brand-New Series 1\" (BNS1). The set was released on October 24, 2012. BNS1 features 55 new GPK characters, a reality TV subset, motion cards, mix 'n' match stickers, parallels, artist sketch cards, and code cards redeemable for a chance to be painted as a GPK in the next BNS. BNS2 was released in March and features 55 new characters plus 18 reimagined characters plus lenticular cards, glow in the dark cards and folded cards. Unlike the all new series set and like the old series sets the numbering of BNS continues where the previous series ended. They have now announced that there will be a BNS3 released in the middle of October, after the release of the chrome edition in August.\n\nIn October 2013, Topps re-released original series 1 as a metallic chromium set containing all 41 kids plus 14 previously unpublished characters.\n\nOn July 30, 2014, Topps re-released 1985's original series 2 set plus 13 returning characters from series 2 characters that have been reimagined in previous garbage pail kid sets as chromium cards. Chrome cards are thicker than the original cards and are not stickers.\n\nTopps released a series of all new cards with brand new artwork for 2014. Like the older cards, these have activities on the back of the cards including checklists, puzzles, and \"Fakebook\" profiles.\n\nIn July 2015, Topps released the 30th Anniversary series with 110 a/b cards (220 cards total). The numbering differed from previous series in that instead of ranging from 1–110a/b it had several themed subsets each of which started at 1 a/b with the subsets being checklist cards featuring variations of Adam Bomb 1–2a/b including Adam Bomb \"Don't Push My Button\" featuring classic GPK characters pressing Adam Bomb's button 1–10a/b, \"Artistic Impression\" featuring historical art as GPK characters 1–10a/b, \"Artistic Interpretation\" featuring characters drawn by guest artists 1–5a/b, \"Comic Book Covers\" featuring art from the comic books 1–7a/b, \"Cutting Room Floor\" featuring rejected concepts 1–5a/b, \"Garbage Pail Kids' Kids\" featuring the children of classic GPK characters 1–10a/b, \"Garbage Pail Pets\" featuring animals as garbage pail kids 1–10a/b, \"Garbage Pail Presidents\" featuring 10 former U.S. presidents as Garbage Pail Kids 1–10a/b, \"Lost Original Art\" featuring the original paintings of classic GPKs which were never before published 1–6a/b, \"Zoom Out\" featuring zoomed-out GPKs showing what happened in the background 1–10a/b, and \"'80s Spoofs\" featuring spoofs of things that were popular in the 1980s 1–25a/b.\n\nAfter the 30th Anniversary series, Topps began using a new formula that structured each series with an overall theme divided into subsets focusing on particular topics. In January 2016, \"American as Apple Pie in Your Face\" put GPKs in situations that parodied American culture. A second 2016 series followed in April called \"Prime Slime Trashy TV\" with humorous takes on popular television shows. The first series for 2017 was January's \"Adam-geddon\" which put the Garbage Pail Kids (including some classic kids) in perilous end-times scenarios. Topps announced that the second series for 2017 will arrive in October and be the \"Battle of the Bands\" caricaturing popular music acts and album covers.\n\nOn August 21, 1987, a live-action film based on the card characters was released. Its campy production made it both a critical and commercial flop, opening poorly in 374 theaters with initial receipts of $661,512 and total gross receipts of $1,576,615, barely making back its 1 million dollar budget. On Rotten Tomatoes, the film holds a 0% critic rating and 35% audience rating. The film is considered one of the worst films ever made. Topps featured advertisements for the movie on the original series 9 and 10 box-topper poster and variant wrapper.\n\nOn March 12, 2012, it was announced that Michael Eisner's Tornante Company would be producing a new movie based on the Garbage Pail Kids, likely with computer-generated character imagery. Michael Vukadinovich was hired to write the screenplay for the film and PES has been hired to direct. However, the film is currently no longer in development.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37929475", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37929475", "title": "Hollywood Indian", "text": "Hollywood Indian\n\nThe Hollywood Indian is a fictitious stock character, a stereotype and misrepresentation of Native Americans used in movies, especially in the Western genre. The image of the Hollywood Indian reflects neither contemporary nor historical Native American realities; instead, it is based in the views and desires of non-Native producers, screenwriters, directors, and actors. Closely connected to myths and images created about Native Americans and the Wild West, the stereotype has undergone significant changes from the beginning of cinema to the present day.\n\nThe Hollywood Indian has his roots in the Western as a literary genre. Ideas such as the vanishing Indian, or the noble and ignoble savage, were made popular by authors such as James Fenimore Cooper. This popular wild west literature revolved around frontiersmen, pioneers, and settlers struggling against nature, lawlessness, and Native Americans. Drawing upon genres such as the captivity narrative, these novels rely on a variety of stereotypes. Although supposedly sympathetic to Native Americans, Cooper simplified and polarized Native characters and experiences. While portraying some of his Native main characters as regal, he also portrayed them as the last of their kind and thus enforced the image of the 'vanishing Indian'. This is one of the most persistent images carried into the 20th century. Literary models promoted the idea of Native Americans being either noble or ignoble, and the negative image legitimized concepts such as manifest destiny and the resulting need to eliminate the \"Indian threat\" to American civilization.\n\nWild West Shows spread these stereotypes to even larger audiences. Some individual Natives were made famous by non-Natives, who then promoted the racist idea that one man could stand for all Native Americans. The mainstream image of Natives underwent a major change in the 19th century. While in the centuries before, European depictions of Native Americans had been characterized by a certain nakedness, from mid-century on the naked or partly naked \"demi-god or cannibal\" was replaced by the mounted, be-feathered, and 'decently' dressed warrior. Most characteristics of this latter stereotypical Native American were taken from various tribal groups of the Great Plains as they appeared in the 19th century – such as the war bonnet, the teepee, the pipe, and the riding skills. Apparently, already Buffalo Bill picked the Sioux as his favourite \"tribe\" due to their riding skills and outer appearance.\n\nIn the context of the Western movies, images ranged from 'the savage warrior' who took the shape of the noble savage – the heroic and noble hunter/warrior who is most often stoic, in touch with nature, and peace-loving but willing to fight when necessary. Furthermore, derogatory images of the drunken Indian, and the shaman character, who was depicted as mysterious and deeply religious, exist.\n\nJacquelyn Kilpatrick names three classes of these offensive stereotypes: mental, sexual, and spiritual. She attributes most meaning to the first class, which characterizes Native Americans as being inferior to Euro-Americans in terms of intellect, leading to a \"dumb, dirty, and stupid\" image of Native Americans. The second class portrays especially male Native Americans as intensely sexual beings who are more \"creature than human\", run around half-naked, and do little more than lusting after white maidens. The last category views the Native American as a spiritual being. Although this spirituality is perceived as an inherent closeness to nature and especially the earth, which gives Native peoples a \"certain nature-based nobility\", it is also regarded as simple and heathen.\n\nHollywood Indians are usually based solely on stereotypes of the Plains Indians, such as the Lakota, Cheyenne, and Comanche, ignoring completely the cultural diversity of the many tribes in North America. Although the film industry \"is (mostly) far from purposeful distortion\", technical and business-related production decisions affect the Native American screen image.\n\nO'Connor argues that audiences have certain expectations for characteristic representation – such as easy comprehensibility of the storyline and the morality – which they value over authenticity, and the same holds true for stereotypes. While most of the above features also apply to literature or other media, specific business-related decisions influence film in a way that might advance the stereotypical depiction of Native Americans. The impact of the resulting distorted images in film can be considered in different terms than that of other media. While novels certainly reach a broad public, the world-wide distribution of films allows for an amount of spectators on a totally different scale – not only in numbers, but also emotionally by using filmic devices such as light, music, and camera angles.\n\nAs the dominant carrier of filmic misrepresentations of Native Americans, the Western genre emerged in the early days of cinema and remained popular through much of the 20th century. Crucial to the frontier myth, the settlement of the West, and the founding of white civilization are the antagonists, and the indigenous population, served as the opposition to the white Western hero personifying the \"agent of civilization\". These antagonists in form of a fictional, homogenized celluloid Indian have never really existed except in the stories told by white Americans to white audiences.\n\nStuart Hall explains how cinema and cultural identity go hand in hand. Identity is not a static fact, but rather something that can be continually reproduced. The ways that identities are portrayed in film are typically not the same as they are in reality. The interpretation of an identity in film is determined both by the filmmakers and the audience. Since the majority of films in the United States featuring Native Americans were made by Euro-American filmmakers up until the 1970s, Native Americans were not represented from an authentic perspective and were often cast in stereotypes.\n\nEarly depictions of Native Americans in film are surprisingly diverse. Although the Indian as the villain, antagonist, or simple-minded savage was present, a complex array of characters populated the silent screens between 1909 and 1913, a period when Indian characters where especially popular: the villain could be white as well as Indian; lasting white–Indian relationships emerged; and mixed-blood Indians could be villainous as well as sympathetic. Edwin Carewe (real name Jay Fox), a Chickasaw filmmaker from that era, made more than 60 feature films and directed the 1928 version of \"Ramona\" starring Delores Del Rio and Waner Baxter. By the late teens, the popularity of Indian movies and cowboy-and-Indian movies decreased, and even though Indian movies continued to be produced in moderate numbers, they only became popular again by the mid 1930s. One of the most notable directors from 1924's \"The Iron Horse\" to 1964's \"Cheyenne Autumn\" was John Ford, often working with John Wayne as his male protagonist. Ford's depiction of Native Americans actually showed both hostile and sympathetic Indians such as in \"Stagecoach\" (1939), but also in \"Fort Apache\" (1948) and \"Wagon Master\" (1950). The first two movies in the cavalry trilogy, \"Fort Apache\" and \"She Wore A Yellow Ribbon\" (1949) feature sympathetic Indians with speaking roles and the conflict is mostly the fault of white prejudice rather than the inherently bad nature of the typical screen Indians. Not all Indian portrayals were savage; by 1950, Delmer Daves' \"Broken Arrow\" had set the stage for a new era of Indian/white peaceful coexistence.\n\nA gradual change in the American Indian's screen image did occur from the 1940s and 1950s onwards, at the height of the Western's popularity, when a turn towards \"the gradual elimination of the stereotypes in big budget movies \" is noticeable. The social and political consequences of the World War II paved the way, as Native Americans were no longer the principal antagonists and World War II supplied America with new enemies, namely, the Germans, Italians, and Japanese. The late 1960s and early 1970s saw a decline in the production of Western films, thus also diminishing the representation of Native Americans. Influenced heavily by the experiences of the Vietnam war, Native Americans symbolically came to signify any indigenous population threatened by annihilation at the hands of the United States. In this way, though the typical savage disappeared almost entirely from the big screen, Native Americans in motion pictures were reduced to a vehicle of criticism of contemporary politics.\n\nThe 1970s and especially the late 1980s saw the emergence of independent films outside the Western genre depicted contemporary Native life. The decisive difference was that \"Native American characters become significant in and of themselves\". At a time when the Western was nearly extinct, this new image marked an important step towards a greater variety of Native American images on screen. By the mere fact that it involved Native Americans in the production process more than ever before – by employing Native actors for Native parts, for telling stories from a Native perspective, sometimes basing them on Native novels – these films contributed to the visibility of Native peoples. Some examples are \"House Made of Dawn\" (1972), \"Spirit of the Wind\" (1979), and Powwow Highway (1989), although none of these films attracted a large, mainstream audience. More accurate film representations were now being made, but they were reaching nowhere near the exposure of the earlier, stereotypical images in Westerns.\n\nThe release of \"Dances with Wolves\" (1990) unexpectedly revived the Western genre. Arguably the most influential Native American-themed film of the last few decades, it paid reasonably careful attention to the depiction of Lakota life, traditions and clothing, at least compared to earlier efforts. However, the basic formula of the Hollywood stereotypes – at its heart the idea of the white lead 'going Native', the arrival of the 'White Saviour' – was not transcended, and there were still cultural errors in the film. Thus, the evaluation of scholarly criticism boiled down to granting the film good intentions, but at the same time classifying the movie as a revisionist Western simply replaying the romantic Noble Savage with the white as the hero. \"Dances with Wolves\" was followed by other sympathetic or revisionist Western blockbusters such as \"The Last of the Mohicans\" (1992), and \"\" (1993) and caused mainstream media to put American Indians on their agenda, at least for a short while. One of the few Hollywood movies that portrays Native life outside the Old West and instead sets its story in contemporary times is \"Thunderheart\".\n\nIn the past two decades, a striving Native American independent cinema has developed. Native Americans have formed their own production companies and political organizations to influence their own representations and to counter negative stereotypes. What distinguishes Native American cinema from Hollywood productions is the involvement of American Indians as directors, writers, and producers, such as Sherman Alexie, Chris Eyre, Sterlin Harjo, Hanay Geiogamah, and Greg Sarris. Two of the most characteristic features are the casting of Native actors for Native roles, and the setting of the stories in contemporary America as opposed to the 19th-century West. \"Lakota Woman\" (TV 1994), \"Skinwalkers\" (TV 2002), \"Smoke Signals\" (1998), \"The Business of Fancydancing\" (2002), Grand Avenue (TV 1996), and \"Edge of America\" (TV 2003) are some best-known examples. Additionally, new media is providing a platform for short films and videos by independent producers, comedians, and other content-creators.\n\nFilmmakers such as Hulleah J. Tsinhnahjinnie, Shelley Niro, and Sherman Alexie have incorporated the stereotypical images of Native Americans into their films and worked to reshape the meaning that has often been historically ascribed to them in cinema. These images include wildlife, beadwork, feathers, smoke, and nature. The stereotypes associated with these images are largely derived from a colonized, Euro-American perspective and are still fueled today by tourism and commercialism.\n\nWhile the stereotypical representations have not accurately portrayed Native American culture, the fact that the images exist and are historically preserved allow filmmakers to reference well-known aspects of their cultural heritage and then reshape the meaning associated with the images. The stereotypical images represent a piece of Native American heritage that was not assimilated or eliminated. From here, contemporary Native American artists have begun to claim visual sovereignty over the images circulated in media. Visual sovereignty provides Native Americans the authority to authentically portray that which belongs to them—the images of their cultural heritage. This is a step towards retelling the legacy of colonization from a Native American perspective instead of the Euro-American perspective, and is also an opportunity to break the mold of stereotypes still around today that are largely driven by consumerism.\n\nMany of contemporary films include themes about identity. Often, at least one of the characters grapples with honoring and acknowledging their cultural heritage while also living in a colonized society. The films also use various rhetorical devices to convey other cultural beliefs, including spirituality, life and death, time and space.\n\nA short, but powerful representation of contemporary Native American film is \"Aboriginal World View\" (2003) by Hulleah J. Tsinhnahjinnie. The film was produced while the political climate was tense between the Middle East and the United States. The film shows a woman wrapped in a burqa made of American flags, looking out at the Navajo reservation. Powwow music plays in the background, which eventually transitions into the sound of the waves of the Pacific Ocean. Tsinhnahjinnie took the opportunity to create a piece from an indigenous person's perspective that spoke to the recurring history of war, land, diaspora, violence, oppression, and dispossession.\n\nThe film \"It Started With a Whisper\" (1993) by Shelley Niro is another example of contemporary Native American cinema reshaping the semiotic system behind Native American stereotypes. The film has an all-Native cast and was filmed in the Six Nations/Brantford area of Canada. The protagonist in the film, Shanna Sabbath, is an 18-year-old girl who grew up on the reservation, leaves to establish herself in an urban life, and returns to tend to family matters. The opening scene is a compilation of shots that show beadwork, hands throwing dirt in the air, and smoke rising into the air, all while the narrator speaks in the past tense—indicating something that has passed or been lost. The brief shots then give glimpses of a woman walking in the forest. The stereotypical images are heavily used, yet the film uses them to confront many misrepresentations of Native American people. From the opening scene, the film continues with rich, metaphorical images juxtaposed with urban lifestyle, interracial relationships, and allusions to other Native American cultural beliefs about time, space, and death.\n\nPerhaps a more popular film amongst a mainstream audience is The Business of Fancydancing (2002) by Sherman Alexie. The film is about a young Native American man who grew up on a reservation and eventually lives his adult life as a gay poet in Spokane. The stark contrast between life on a reservation and life in a city open a more authentic glimpse into a modern experience of grappling with identity when one is part of both settings. Alexie chose to make a low-budget, independent film in order to maintain all financial and creative control over the film. The cast and crew are predominantly Native American. Alexie has stated that the primary audience is for the film is Native Americans. In an interview with Joelle Fraser in Iowa Review, he explained how the majority those who read his literature and poetry are white. He said, \"There's something wrong with my not reaching Indians . . . Generally speaking Indians don't read books. It's not a book culture. That's why I'm trying to make movies. Indians go to movies; Indians own VCRs\". The film breaks many stereotypes, and also uses dialogue incorporates tropes and subtle cultural nuances that are particularly familiar to a Native American audience.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41482272", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41482272", "title": "Houmuwu ding", "text": "Houmuwu ding\n\nThe Houmuwu ding (), formerly called Simuwu ding (), is a rectangular bronze \"ding\" (sacrificial vessel, one of the common types of Chinese ritual bronzes) of the ancient Chinese Shang dynasty. It is the largest piece of bronzeware to survive from anywhere in the ancient world. It was unearthed in Wuguan Village, Anyang, Henan in 1939.\n\nThe \"ding\" is named for the inscription in bronze ware script on the interior wall, which reads \"Queen Mother Wu\" (). This is the temple name of Fu Jing, a queen of Wu Ding. The \"ding\" was made after her death, presumably by her son, Zu Geng of Shang. Whilst the ding itself was unearthed in 1939, Fu Jing's tomb was not located until 1959, and was found to have been robbed out.\n\nThe \"ding\" is of the rectangular type, with four legs. It is 133 centimetres high, 110 centimetres wide, 79 centimetres deep, and weighs 832.84 kilograms. Compared to earlier \"ding\", such as the Duling rectangular ding, it is wider and its walls are thicker, making it much more massive. Each side has a blank space in the middle, surrounded by a band of decoration featuring \"taotie\" (animal faced creatures) and \"kuilong\" (one-legged dragons). There are two handles, each decorated on the exterior with two tigers facing each other, their jaws closing around a human head in between them, an image which is also found on Fu Hao battle axes.\n\nThe inscription was originally read as \"sīmǔwù\" (司母戊), but since the 1970s scholars have reached the consensus that the first character should be read as \"hou\" (后), meaning queen, which is the mirror-image of \"si\" (司) in oracle bone script. The National Museum of China has officially corrected its name. This reading of the inscription meant that the owner of the ding was supposed to have been a wife of Wu Yi of Shang (reigned c. 1147–1112 BC), and the dedicator her son, Wen Ding (reigned c. 1112–1102 BC). However, understanding the first character as \"hou\" makes it the temple name of Fu Jing, who lived earlier.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2724469", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2724469", "title": "Imperial Party of New Zealand", "text": "Imperial Party of New Zealand\n\nThe Imperial Party of New Zealand is a political party from New Zealand. Its leader is Jeffery Robinson. Its policies include restricting immigration, forced repatriation, chemical castration for sex offenders, the re-introduction of slavery, and supporting the creation of a Commonwealth Parliament. It has since been revealed as a comedy hoax against the Imperial Party in Britain.\n\n"}
{"id": "3270664", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3270664", "title": "Incest between twins", "text": "Incest between twins\n\nIncest between twins or twincest is a subclass of sibling incest and includes both heterosexual and homosexual relationships. While in modern Western European culture such behaviour is considered taboo, incest between twins is a common feature in Indo-European, Asian (such as Japan) and Oceanian mythology, and there are a few societies in which the prohibition on it is limited or it is partially accepted.\n\nIn traditional Balinese culture, it was common for a set of twins of the opposite sex to marry each other, since it was assumed that they had had sex in utero. The standard anthropological explanation of this custom is based in explications of the conflicts between descent and affinity in Balinese society. Twin incest was a common feature of Balinese mythology. As in many other mythologies, the Balinese deities frequently marry their siblings without any of the incest-related issues faced by similarly-situated human couples.\n\nThis was commonplace in Southeast Asian creation myths which prominently featured twin or sibling couples. In these stories, the brother usually wooed and wed his sister, who bore his child(ren), but on discovering that they are siblings, they are often (but not always) forced to part.\n\nAccording to Tagalog mythology, Malakás (\"strong\") and Magandá (\"beautiful\"), the first humans on earth, were fraternal twins born of the same bamboo stalk.\n\nAn old Japanese myth says that if two star-crossed lovers commit dual suicide, they are reincarnated as fraternal twins.\n\nTwin incest is a prominent feature in ancient Germanic mythology, and its modern manifestations, such as the relationship between Siegmund and Sieglinde in Richard Wagner's \"Die Walküre\", and a feature in some Greek mythology, such as the story of Byblis and Kaunos. There are strong parallels between the Germanic portrayals of twin incest and those of the Balinese Ramayana, and some scholars have speculated an early Indo-European link.\n\nThe theme also appears in English literature, such as the incest between the twins Polydore and Urania in Delarivier Manley's \"The New Atlantis\".\n\nIn a 1983 review of the scholarly literature on twin homosexuality and twin incest, Ray Bixler concluded that \"most same-sex homosexual twins, if reared with their co-twins, do not attempt or even want to seduce them in adulthood\". His study drew on Edvard Westermarck's hypothesis that sexual desire is generally absent in relationships between members of a nuclear family.\n\nOne case of incest between twins, in which twins who were adopted by separate families as babies later married without knowing they were brother and sister, was mentioned in a House of Lords debate on the Human Fertility and Embryology Bill in January 2008. According to the charity Adults Affected by Adoption, there had been other cases of this sort that had involved siblings. The story was widely publicised in the British press, although its truthfulness was called into question.\n\nCzech identical twins Michal and Radek Cuma are male pornographic actors who in 2009 began having sex together in video performances as \"Milo and Elijah Peters\". They consider themselves both brothers and romantic partners, and report that, outside their video performances with other actors, they have sex solely with each other.\n"}
{"id": "13410006", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13410006", "title": "Iordan Chimet", "text": "Iordan Chimet\n\nIordan Chimet (November 18, 1924 – May 23, 2006) was a Romanian poet, children's writer and essayist, whose work was inspired by Surrealism and Onirism. He is also known as a memoirist, theater, art and film critic, book publisher and translator. Chimet, who was an opponent of totalitarianism in general and of the Communist regime in particular, was persecuted by the latter as a dissident, and lived much of his life in obscurity. His experience as an employee of the cooperative society Centrocoop also made him one of the first professional copywriters in his country.\n\nThe poems, fantasy works and fairy tales he authored, although largely ignored locally upon being published, have since drawn acclaim for their accomplished style, and are considered by many unique in Romanian literature. They explored the themes of innocence and melancholy, and have themselves been seen as a venue for a discreet advocacy of disobedience. Chimet was also the author of critical essays on Latin American studies and Western or popular culture, and a publisher of anthologies on some of the major themes in Romanian society. In addition, he collected and published material on the life and legacy of playwright Mihail Sebastian, as well as on the history of the Romanian avant-garde.\n\nIordan Chimet had a lifelong friendship with Gheorghe Ursu, a dissident who was killed by the Securitate secret police in 1985, and with science fiction author Camil Baciu. He was also a friend of the German writer Michael Ende and the Greek poet Odysseas Elytis, with whom he kept in touch in spite of the difficulties posed by their living on different sides of the Iron Curtain.\n\nBorn in Galaţi, Chimet belonged to a family of middle-class intellectuals. His first works of poetry were published by the magazine \"Vremea\" when he was still in high school. Politically active while still a teenager during World War II, he was part of an anti-fascist group in his native city. The cell, which opposed Ion Antonescu's rule and Romania's alliance to the Axis Powers (\"see Romania during World War II\"), also included Ursu and Baciu. The Romanian Kingdom's secret police, \"Siguranţa Statului\", had Chimet under surveillance from 1943 until the King Michael Coup of 1944. Chimet, unlike his friends, was not drawn into collaboration with the Romanian Communist Party, being apprehensive of communism in general and of Soviet influence in particular.\n\nHe was a graduate of the Philology and Philosophy Department (1948), and of the Law Department (1957) of the University of Bucharest. Following the start of Soviet occupation, he was active in supporting writers proscribed by the new authorities and joined a clandestine society to offer them help—known as the \"Eminescu Association\", after Romania's famous 19th century poet Mihai Eminescu, it sought assistance from the Western Allies. Other people involved in this project were the authors Pavel Chihaia, Vladimir Streinu, and Constant Tonegaru (aided by the French Roman Catholic cleric Marie-Alype Barral). According to Chihaia: \"We realized, from the very beginning, what the new ideology imposed on us, as an adversary to the traditional culture, to the freedom of thought, attempting to compromise the values in which we believed and which we professed, really meant.\"\n\nIn the years leading up to the Communist regime's establishment, Iordan Chimet published poems with anti-communist undertones (\"ExiL\", \"ExiLe\") in \"Revista Fundaţiilor Regale\" and \"Revista Româno-Americană\". At the time, he met the art and literary critic Petru Comarnescu, who helped him publicize his works. Reportedly, Comarnescu proposed his poems for an award, but this was never granted.\n\nRefusing to adapt his style to Socialist realism, Chimet was himself considered a suspect, and lived in extreme poverty during the 1950s. Literary critic Paul Cernat indicated that Chimet was able to evade arrest only because Tonegaru, who had been arrested, did not give in to violent interrogation. Ursu and Baciu were themselves disillusioned with communism after 1949-1950, and broke with the Communist Party around that time.\n\nChimet was subject to an inquiry for \"anti-people activities\", and sentenced to work as a lathe operator for a worker cooperative. Soon after, he was moved to what was considered a lower position, that of copy-editor for Centrocoop commercials, an office whose equivalent in capitalist countries was that of copywriter (Chimet was thus one of Romania's first persons to have this job description after World War II). It was in this field that he gained first-hand experience in marketing, which was to prove an important theme in some of his essays.\n\nHe was allowed to publish beginning in the late 1960s, with the liberalization coinciding with the early years of Nicolae Ceauşescu's leadership. At the time, Chimet also found employment as a lecturer at the \"Friends of Film\" club at the \"Cinemateca\" film archive, where he kept company with film critics such as Paul Barbăneagră, Tudor Caranfil, Eugen Schileru and D. I. Suchianu. His works of criticism touched aspects of Western culture that he intended to popularize in Romania: two of them were dedicated, respectively, to the American-born Western genre (\"Western. Filmele Vestului îndepărtat\"—\"Western. The Films of the Far West\") and to the American cinema in general (\"Eroi, fantome, șoricei\"—\"Heroes, Ghosts, Little Mice\"); other works dealt with the visual arts in South America, with Latin American art and Latin American studies. This focus, together with the praise to innocence he provided in his fairy tales and fantasy works, as well as in his 1972 Editura Ion Creangă anthology (\"Cele 12 luni ale visului. O antologie a inocenței\", \"The 12 Months of Dreaming. An Anthology of Innocence\"), have themselves been seen as signs of resistance through culture.\n\nWhile his work was ignored at home, it brought Chimet a measure of success abroad. His essays on American culture were generally not distributed in Romania, but were translated in other Eastern bloc countries, where they became appreciated for their subversive undertones. In parallel, his works of children's literature were translated into several languages, and became known in America, as well as in Western and Central Europe, on both sides of the Iron Curtain. He was selected to be part of the jury for the University of Oklahoma's Neustadt International Prize for Literature (the only Romanian to enjoy this appointment), but the communist authorities' hostility prevented him from honoring the request.\n\nIordan Chimet did not cease his contacts with Western writers, and generally appealed to clandestine mail in order to have his messages sent across. In 1977, he began corresponding with Michael Ende, who was living in West Germany. The two shared a rejection for normative control over literature: while Chimet centered his criticism on the cultural guidelines imposed by Ceaușescu (\"see April Theses\"), Ende depicted in negative terms the impact of Neorealism and the Marxist aesthetics popularized by Bertold Brecht. The writers never met face to face. Later in life, Chimet was to preface the first Romanian edition of \"The Neverending Story\". He also befriended the celebrated poet Odysseas Elytis, as well as prominent critics of the Communist regime (historian Katherine Verdery and exiled writer Norman Manea) and artists from South and Central American countries. Chimet edited and published Elytis' work in Romania—the resulting volume of collected poetry was deemed by Elytis \"the most beautiful book dedicated to my work to have ever been published anywhere in the world.\"\n\nAccording to one theory, Gheorghe Ursu's 1985 killing, which was the result of repeated beatings in custody, was the result of Securitate pressures to have him expose some of his writer friends—Chimet's name was cited, alongside those of poets Nina Cassian and Geo Bogza. The same year, Chimet braved ongoing Securitate surveillance and attended Ursu's funeral.\n\nAfter the Romanian Revolution of 1989, Iordan Chimet centered his efforts on educating the Romanian public in respect to democratic values. In collaboration with the Cluj-Napoca-based publishing company Editura Dacia, he issued a collection of volumes, published under the collective title \"Ieșirea din labirint\" (\"Exiting The Labyrinth\"). It was as part of this that, in 1992-1993, he printed a four-volume dictionary on Romanian identity, \"Dreptul la memorie\" (\"The Right to a Memory\"), and the 1996 anthology called \"Momentul adevărului\" (\"The Moment of Truth\"). The two texts earned Ursu the Gheorghe Ursu Foundation Award for 1997. A member of the Romanian Writers' Union, he was the recipient of its special prize in 2003. In 2004, he published a volume of essays, titled \"Cele două Europe, cele două Românii\" (\"The Two Europes, The Two Romanias\").\n\nFor most of his life, Chimet attempted to remain a freelancer, and, despite financial constraints, refused state employment for all but five years of his life. During his final years, despite usually refusing to comment on his incidental career in marketing, Chimet agreed to give lectures on selling technique for a private university—it was one of the first courses of its kind in Romania.\n\nHe died in the small apartment he owned, located in the Titan area of Bucharest. His last work, a second volume of collected correspondence, was published posthumously.\n\nInspired by Surrealism, Iordan Chimet was a representative of the World War II generation in Romanian literature, and his anti-totalitarianism was placed in connection with his upbringing in a multicultural city. Paul Cernat proposed that Chimet was in may ways similar to members of the Oniric trend—who also mixed subversive messages with imagery inspired by Surrealism—and especially to its representatives Leonid Dimov and Emil Brumaru. Like his friend Gheorghe Ursu, Iordan Chimet cultivated the avant-garde, and was interested in the writings of his predecessors Urmuz, Gherasim Luca and Tristan Tzara, as well as in those of his Surrealist contemporary Gellu Naum. In 1999, he edited one of the first compilations of the Romanian avant-garde, with its title borrowed from Urmuz: \"Cică niște cronicari, duceau lipsă de șalvari\" (\"It Seems It Did Happen Once, Some Chroniclers Lacked Baggy Pants\"). He attempted to replicate the experience of interwar authors, who, as he himself argued, practiced \"art as an exercise in admiration, as a statement of love, as a manifestation of the artist's solidarity with beings forgotten by history.\"\n\nIn parallel, his active and determined involvement in cultural resistance has led several authors to liken him to Don Quixote, the hidalgo character crafted by Miguel de Cervantes (\"see Quixotism\"). Seen as withdrawn and original, he doubled his political criticism with a vivid interest in topics related to fantasy, including mythology, magic, alchemy and demonology—part of his work as a literary critic involved tracing the influences these had on popular culture and naïve art, as well as in science fiction and other areas of paraliterature. According to his friend, essayist Monica Gheț, Chimet's style was the equivalent of \"a mirror held in front of the local art's subconscious in times of need\", while his stance was \"pure and combative\".\n\nIn a 1980 book of literary and art criticism, Romanian author and Orthodox hermit Nicolae Steinhardt voiced admiration for Chimet's interpretation of Romanian folklore, both rural and urban, as noted in Chimet's 1976 travel writing volume \"Baladă pentru vechiul drum\" (\"A Ballad to the Old Road\"). Steinhardt sees Chimet's \"entire effort\" and lifelong message concentrated and explained by the book's title, together with that of Chimet's fairy tale novel \"Închide ochii și vei vedea Orașul\" (which translates as \"Close Your Eyes and You Will See The Town\"). In his interpretation: \"\"Vechiul drum\" is the road to reality, to nature, to the awareness of people and their age-old, eternal, culture, acute and responsible in the present as well. […] Close your eyes in front of the superficial, in front of retail merchandise, in front of the \"in other news\" columns and in front of all gadgets which may tempt you, delude you, entice you and fool you, in front of all dissimulation, hasty lies and noisy or shiny glass beads of the county fairs, and you will see the true reality, poetic and perennial, of your space and the people who inhabit it—the underlying structures, the columns, the crowns.\"\n\nSteinhardt argues that his fellow writer had helped the public make comparisons between the tenets of Surrealism and the natural tendencies in folk art: \"The conclusion, I do believe, is unavoidable: surreality exists, only people call it reality. By vesting the most modest of realities with the prestige and the charm of fairy tales and poetry, Chimet invites (and compels) us to admit them as situated at an energetic and incantational level by no means inferior to the most delicate fantasies and the least bound reveries of Surrealism.\" He adds: \"The world reveals itself [to Chimet] in its entirety, in its rich coloring, in the unending complexity of its textures, in the steady and calm rhythm of various activities and contemplations synchronized with the individual's foundations. Nature […], the inanimate world […], even costumes or musical instruments […] evoke in him human activities, while the energies of matter are interpreted in a human sense and joined up with aspirations and sorrows found the human soul.\" The critic also proposed that such images in \"Vechiul drum\" were superior to a separate chapter on film history \"from \"Fantômas\" to Fellini and \"Hatari\"\": \"No matter how much Iordan Chimet is enchanted by the screen, no matter how contagious his cinemaphile passion may be, it is not in this area that he is truly at ease and worthy of being called a discoverer and unveiler of poetry. He earns these qualifiers mostly when he takes hold […] of a traveler's cane, setting off to the country's villages, workshops, establishments and hidden corners in order to set before our eyes […] the treasures of a reality on whose shoulders \"time sets itself with old age\" [Steinhardt's italics], but who has lost neither courage, nor warm wisdom or a charm renewed with each fresh gaze.\"\n\nAs a political essayist, in addition to his critique of totalitarian systems both left- and right-wing, Chimet was noted for his rejection of all forms of racism, and for being an outspoken critic of antisemitism. According to Andrei Ursu, Gheorghe Ursu's son, this led nationalist voices to accuse Chimet, an ethnic Romanian who defended members of the Jewish community, of having become a \"jidovit\" (\"Jew-turned\"). Literary critic Constantin Stănescu linked his political views to the spirit of his works of fiction, defining him as \"a Surrealist recoverer of innocence and a Utopian militant for purity, with a stubborn and inflexible faith […] in the victory of tolerance and communion against racial or class intolerance, as well as against the outbursts of the aggressive primeval spirit during the long century into which he was given to be born.\" Writing in 2006, Gheț argued that his anthologies were drawing up \"the map of spiritual freedom and its impartation along unsuspected Euro-Atlantic lines, long before the political-strategic «axes» presently reclaimed.\" His activity in support of civil society has drawn comparisons with that of literary historian Adrian Marino, a leading member of the Romanian Civic Alliance, while Marino himself referred to Chimet, Alexandru George, Alexandru Paleologu and members of the Group for Social Dialogue as the sole \"defenders of centrist cultural values\" in post-1989 letters. According to essayist Michaël Finkenthal, Chimet \"spent the last years of his life in a ceaseless battle to retrieve a past that some have forgotten and others have preferred, for various reasons, to neglect.\" Finkenthal also defined Chimet's message as: \"before incriminating, before accusing, research the facts carefully. When man is in chains, when speaking is replaced by yelling, [man] is weak and can be easily tempted by the devil.\"\n\nChimet himself argued: \"All I could do was to defend, in the books I managed to publish, as well as in the everyday life that emerges and disappears, the ideas of friendship, loyalty and human solidarity which the world of my childhood was presenting to us as the foundations of existence.\" He was self-effacing when it came to his legacy: \"the new taste of the times shall be viewing these [goals] from the stratosphere, [they] shall be viewed as a concise moral, perhaps worthy of children in a church choir, a Boy Scout mentality, a Red Cross program, a street concert for the Salvation Army. The comparisons are unflattering, any plea in favor of these simple values seems compromised from the get-go. I must accept this handicap.\"\n\nHis \"ExiL\" poems, some of which were first published in the West during the 1940s, have drawn comparisons with the imagery of original modern artists such as Joan Miró and Paul Klee. The title is a wordplay on \"exil\" (the Romanian-language word for \"exile\") and \"el\" (\"him\"), and the lyrics are addressed to a Jewish friend who had been deported during the Ion Antonescu dictatorship (\"see Holocaust in Romania\"). Decades later, Chimet indicated: \"It was for the first time that the issue of exile showed up in Romania's post-war environment. At the time, it was, shall we say, a premiere. But it was not many years after that the Red Army turned this theme into a banal poetic motif.\"\n\nThe poems build on a repertoire of diverse traditions, which combines, in Paul Cernat words, \"myths, symbols and ancient spiritual traditions, evoking the miraculous bestiary of humanity's childhood\", assuming a shape similar to \"troubadour ballads, blues and Negro spiritual songs, with choirs and invocations addressed to a minute universe\" and \"peopled by creatures and inanimate objects suffering from a silent, nameless pain.\" Among these writings was the 1947 \"Cântec spiritual negru\" (\"Negro Spiritual Song\"), which centered on the imaginary figure of a Saint Benjamin.\n\nAlso according to Cernat, aside from Surrealism, some of the \"ExiL\" poems recalled Imagism, while others were close to Lucian Blaga's Expressionism and the original style developed by Constant Tonegaru, or borrowed themes from the Biblical \"Ecclesiastes\" and the traditional stories of the Eastern world. A series of \"laments\", the pieces develop themes which Iordan Chimet would reuse in later works, such as the images of his native Galaţi as \"the Old City\" and an exiled monarch who would become \"Baltazar the Little Fish\". In one of the \"ExiL\" free verse pieces, titled \"Lamento cu o pălărie galbenă\" (\"Lament with a Yellow Hat\"), Chimet wrote of himself and the landscape of the Old City:\nHis fantasy works partly built on the Surrealist-Oniric legacy. Gheț proposed that such writings have been \"mistakenly\" placed in the field of children's literature—she preferred to define them as \"transfers, evasions from the new mythical-totalitarian reality where all the Romanian sagacity had become stranded.\" In Paul Cernat's view, they form part of the fantasy genre to be read by adults, similar to the writings of Edward Lear, Antoine de Saint Exupéry, J. R. R. Tolkien, Peter Beagle, and Lewis Carroll. Cernat argued: \"Condescending prejudice has sought to exile [Chimet] into a shelf of curiosities merely frequented by a closed circle of connoisseurs: Chimet—the children's author, Chimet—the author of anthologies-manifestos for the innocence of adults, for the freedom of imagination and for the right to memory…\"\n\nAlso set in the Old City, his \"Lamento pentru peștișorul Baltazar\" (\"Lament for Baltazar the Little Fish\") was authored during the 1940s, but, due to political constraints, was only published in 1968 (when it reportedly failed to be chronicled by any literary magazine). The story, divided into independent chapters which function as discourses, comprises several distinct poems: it opens with a \"Song to the Sea\", and comprises one in Chimet's series of \"Laments\".\n\nBaltazar, who was defined by Cernat as \"the messenger of innocence\", is subjected to a trial and has to leave the Old City. In his adventures, the little fish is confronted with a various composite beings, whose identities are imprecise: \"Noi toți\", which translates as \"All of us\", \"Mierea Pământului\"—\"The Honey of the Earth\", \"Vreo Doi (Vreo Doi era un șarpe de apă)\"—\"Twosome (Twosome was a water snake)\", \"Căpitanul de trei coți lungime, de trei coți lățime\"—\"The three-cubit-long three-cubit-wide captain\", \"Prințesa de Satin\"—\"The Satin Princess\" etc. Cernat paralleled these elements to the Absurdist plays of Eugène Ionesco, as well as to the tradition of nonsense verse in English literature. He likened the wordplays and intricate calligraphy associated with the characters and plot to the Lettrist experiments, and the themes they alluded to with those present in some later works by Romanian poet Marin Sorescu. Thus, he proposed that an episode marking the mythological age of Chimet's sea realm, where a character named Arghir asks a whale to swallow him, reminded one of Sorescu's poem \"Iona\" (with both of them being reinterpretations of the Old Testament story of Jonah).\n\nCernat also noted that the playful atmosphere was doubled by \"the diffuse sentiment of absence, estrangement and universal extinguishment\". To illustrate this, he quoted one of Baltazar's lines, accompanied by the narrator's voice: \"«To wake up at the earliest hour, with the flowers. To hear their suave virgin-like voices. To see if my hungry and thirsty fish […] have been properly fed. And if all things are as they should, in orchards and in waters, as they should be for ever and ever.» But his fish were gone, as was the good fairy, as was the pond of the water of life, of the water of death. And all of them had gone out of sight. He could hear them neighing and clattering at the gates, far away.\"\n\nOne of the most influential works in this series was \"Închide ochii și vei vedea Orașul\". Cernat called it: \"a refined musical poem, apparently naïve, unveiling unexpected depths to the reader, through the means of shared asides\" and \"an open game of fantasy filled with love for all that exists, where reality fades into the genuine fantastic of an eternal childhood's unreality, hardly shadowed by melancholy.\" The story centers on a cosmopolitan city (based on Chimet's vision of Galați), which is disputed between the orange-colored dwarfs who live in the \"labyrinth forest\" and the shapeshifting ogre Gagafu, who is assisted by an evil cat named Sultan. The latter two twice kidnap Eli, a girl who serves as protector of the city and is introduced as the narrator's daughter: she is ultimately rescued by the dwarfs, who transport her to their forest; Elli pines for her home, and the dwarfs ultimately decide to let her return. Melancholy, sad musings, and reflections about the fragility of existence are present throughout the book; at one point toward the end of the story, Chimet's narrator confesses: \"And then I withdrew, tiptoeing, to my canopy in the garden and I asked myself, sitting alone, what the sense of all these events was. And it seemed to me that I discovered it. And I flinched. And I perked up my ears, believing that I heard unheard footsteps outside or the flapping of wings in the sky. But there was no such thing.\"\n\nIn \"Cele 12 luni...\", an anthology for the benefit of young readers, Chimet honored fellow children's writer and avant-garde fantasy authors; the authors quoted include Carroll, Ionesco, Saint Exupéry, Hans Christian Andersen, Tudor Arghezi, Ion Creangă, Alfred Jarry, Henri Michaux, Mihail Sadoveanu, Mark Twain, Tristan Tzara, Urmuz, Tiberiu Utan etc. Chimet's own piece was \"Lamento cu o mare baaaaalenă\" (\"Lament with One Big Whaaaaale\") seen by critic Marina Debattista as a sample of Chimet's mix of \"the hero narrative\" and \"tiny Surrealist poems\" into a single original format.\n\nThe book was richly illustrated, mostly with samples of Surrealist art, from Paul Klee to Max Ernst. It also hosted unusual collages of literary contributions by Christian Pineau and drawings by Arghezi, Mateiu Caragiale, Franz Kafka or Federico García Lorca. Commenting on the anthology's subversive content, Marina Debattista noted: \"The reader is discreetly engaged into practicing a form of Surrealism, which temporarily frees him from the clutches of reality. The latter effect is significant for the context in which 'The Anthology of Innocence' saw print: in 1970s Romania, the wooden language, like some acid, insidious sea, eroded spirits and clamped down on their natural opening for the miraculous.\"\n\nFor long after the Romanian Revolution, Chimet's work remained unknown to the local public. Paul Cernat noted that, when the Democratic Convention governments allowed private publishing houses to issue school textbooks of Romanian literature, Iordan Chimet's were made more available to schoolchildren. He also recorded that, since the new educational approaches favored familiarizing students with works of universal and modern literature at the detriment of local classics, Chimet was the subject of attacks in the nationalist press (who listed Chimet, alongside authors such as Ende, Edward Lear, Lewis Carroll, Jorge Luis Borges and Mircea Horia Simionescu, not worthy of inclusion in the textbooks).\n\nIn 2000, \"Lamento pentru peștișorul Baltazar\" was reprinted in a Romanian-German bilingual edition, with assistance from the Goethe-Institut. The volume was illustrated with drawings made for this purpose by some of Chimet's friends: the writers Ionesco, Claude Aveline, Richard Bach, Emilio Breda, Odysseas Elytis, and the Mexican visual artists Juan Soriano and José Garcia Ocejo.\n\nIt is believed that \"Închide ochii și vei vedea Orașul\" inspired various aspects of Michael Ende's \"The Neverending Story\" and that, in Ende's \"Das Gauklermärchen\" (\"The Juggler's Tale\"), Chimet's Elli became Eli, a simple and poor girl who believes herself a princess. The Chimet-Ende correspondence was published as a book in 1999. In 2006-2007, Chimet also published two volumes of the letters he exchanged with various other authors, including Ursu and Camil Baciu, under the title \"Cartea prietenilor mei\" (\"My Friends' Book\"). Following a Romanian Writers' Union initiative, a memorial plaque was placed at his apartment bloc in Titan.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46278887", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46278887", "title": "Jan Białostocki", "text": "Jan Białostocki\n\nJan Białostocki (born August 14, 1921 in Saratov, Russia; died December 25, 1988 in Warsaw) was one of the most famous Polish art historians of the 20th century.\n\nDuring the German Occupation of Poland (1939–45), Białostocki studied at the so-called \"Secret University of Warsaw\" philosophy and art history under Wladyslaw Tatarkiewicz, Tadeusz Kotarbiński and Michał Walicki. From September 1944 to May 1945 he was a prisoner in several German concentration camps. After World War II he worked for about ten years as an assistant at the National Museum, Warsaw and from 1956 on, he directed the museum's art gallery. From 1945 on, he also worked at the University of Warsaw, first as an assistant at the Department of Medieval Art, then as a lecturer. In 1962 he was appointed professor of art history.\n\nSince 1964 Białostocki was a member of the Comité International d'Histoire de l'Art, since 1973 a member of the Institute for Advanced Study of Princeton University. He lectured at numerous academic institutions and museums in many European countries, the USA and Mexico, for instance, at Princeton University (1958), Yale University in New Haven, Connecticut (1965-1966), New York University (1972), the University of Wisconsin (1972), the Pennsylvania State University (1973), the Collège de France (1978) and the University of Cambridge (1984-1985). He also participated in the Twentieth International Congress for the History of Art in New York City. In 1980 he was awarded the first ever Aby Warburg Prize of Hamburg.\n\nBiałostocki's research interests were exceptionally broad and included the art of the Renaissance and the Baroque and Rococo, Rembrandt and the Dutch seventeenth century, Romanticism, history painting, the history of art doctrines, and methodological questions of the history of art. According to Józef Grabski, he \"tried to instill in his students a need for a broad perspective when looking at a particular work of art. He was, in a way, an intellectual son of Erwin Panofsky. Prof. Białostocki directed the attention of his students to the wide context of every work of art: social, psychological, archival, but also historical, economica, as well as purely artistic. [...] He tried to show us the art historical research not only as pure history of art, but in connection with other humanist disciplines.\" He has published more than 600 publications in several languages mainly on art from the Renaissance to the 18th century.\n\nBiałostocki was elected a foreign member of the Royal Netherlands Academy of Arts and Sciences in 1971.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12312958", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12312958", "title": "Kamil Zvelebil", "text": "Kamil Zvelebil\n\nKamil Václav Zvelebil (September 17, 1927 – January 17, 2009) was a distinguished Czech scholar in Indian literature and linguistics, notably Tamil, Sanskrit, Dravidian linguistics and literature and philology.\n\nZvelebil studied at the Charles University in Prague from 1946 to 1952 where he majored in Indology, English language, literature and philosophy. After obtaining his Ph.D in 1952 and until 1970 he was a senior research fellow in Tamil and Dravidian linguistics and literature at the Oriental Institute of the Czechoslovak Academy of Sciences. He held the role of associate professor of Tamil and Dravidian at Charles University in Prague until 1968, when he and his family (including his son, the later archaeologist, Marek Zvelebil) were forced to flee after the Warsaw Pact invasion of Czechoslovakia. They fled to the United States at first, but later settled in the Netherlands.\n\nDuring the late 1960s, he made many field trips including those to South India. From 1965 to 1966, he was a temporary professor in Dravidian studies at the University of Chicago in the United States and was a visiting professor at Heidelberg University between 1967 and 1968. Furthermore, he is very well known among the Tamil Nadu and has earnt a permanent place in the educational syllabus of the Dravidian states.\n\nIn 1970, after more time at the University of Chicago, he was a visiting professor at the Collège de France in Paris. After more travel through European universities he became the professor of Dravidian linguistics and South Indian literature and culture at Utrecht University until his retirement in 1992.\n\nZvelebil also made the only known translation of the Kural text in the Czech language. It included some selections that appeared in \"Novy Orient\", a Czech journal, during 1952–54.\n\nHe has authored numerous books and articles on Dravidian linguistics and literature.\nSome of them are:\n\n\nKamil Zvelebil has authored more than 500 bibliographic items including books, articles and reviews and translations.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56929091", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56929091", "title": "List of advocates of basic income", "text": "List of advocates of basic income\n\nThis is a list of notable persons or organizations that have articles on Wikipedia and are advocates of basic income.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6429209", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6429209", "title": "Manualism (hand music)", "text": "Manualism (hand music)\n\nManualism is the art of playing music by squeezing air through the hands. Because the sound produced has a distinctly flatulent tone, such music is usually presented as a form of musical comedy or parody. The musical performer is called a manualist, who may perform a cappella or with instrumental accompaniment.\n\nPlaying recognizable tunes by squeezing the hands together is extremely difficult, and could take many years of practice to master the art. Some manualists practice for as many as 30 years before finally reaching a presentable level of proficiency.\n\nJust as a trumpeter makes sound by blowing air between the lips, a manualist makes sound by squeezing air between two hands.\n\nThe hands are held together, trapping a pocket of air between the two palms. Using the fingers of one hand, the air is squeezed out the top, between the base of the thumb and the opposite hand, to form a musical note. The pitch is determined by the force used to hold the hands together. The tighter the grip, the higher the note.\n\nBass notes may be produced by squeezing the air pocket out the opposite side, near the pinky finger.\n\nEven with years of practice, manualism is very difficult to control. It may be one of the hardest \"instruments\" in the world to play, and live stage performances are extremely rare.\n\nRecords of manualists performing the art prior to the 20th Century have yet to be discovered, though it seems likely that someone must have attempted to make music in this fashion from the earliest days of musical parody.\n\nA Universal Studios newsreel from 1933 may be the oldest filmed record of a manualist performing the art. The footage documents a farmer named Cecil Dill from Traverse City, Michigan, who claims that he first learned to play \"Yankee Doodle\" in 1914.\n\nIn 1974, John Twomey, a successful Grand Rapids, Michigan attorney, performed \"Stars and Stripes Forever\" on NBC's \"The Tonight Show Starring Johnny Carson\" . This performance was seen by several million people in the United States, not only in 1974, but annually for many years thereafter, as the segment was repeated many times on the annual \"Best of Carson\" shows. It is also included in the \"Best of Johnny Carson\" collection.\n\nTwomey introduced himself as \"a manualist\", perhaps the first use of the term in a musical context. He appeared on several other programs including \"The Mike Douglas Show\" where he performed the \"Colonel Bogey March,\" made famous in the film \"The Bridge Over the River Kwai\", and \"The Merv Griffin Show\" where he performed \"When the Saints Go Marching In.\" He provided audio for the Barney Miller episode \"The Dentist,\" first aired December 27, 1979, in which a manualist musician is hauled in for disturbing the peace.\n\nJohn Twomey's last public performance was on November 21, 1998 on the radio show \"A Prairie Home Companion\" with Garrison Keillor, where he performed \"Stardust\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2467754", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2467754", "title": "Marilyn French", "text": "Marilyn French\n\nMarilyn French (née \"Edwards\") (November 21, 1929May 2, 2009) was a radical feminist American author.\n\nFrench was born in Brooklyn to E. Charles Edwards, an engineer, and Isabel Hazz Edwards, a department store clerk. In her youth, she was a young journalist, writing a neighborhood newsletter. She played the piano and dreamed of becoming a composer. She received a bachelor's degree from Hofstra University (then Hofstra College) in 1951, in philosophy and English literature. Marilyn Edwards married Robert M. French Jr. in 1950 and supported him while he attended law school. The couple had two children. French also received a master's degree in English from Hofstra, in 1964. She divorced Robert French in 1967 and then pursued a doctorate at Harvard University, where she earned a Ph.D in 1972.\n\nShe was an English instructor at Hofstra, from 1964 to 1968, and was an assistant professor of English at the College of the Holy Cross in Worcester, Massachusetts, from 1972 to 1976.\n\nFrench's first serious publication, \"The Book as World: James Joyce's Ulysses,\" was her Harvard thesis.\n\nIn her work, French asserted that women's oppression is an intrinsic part of the male-dominated global culture. For instance, one of her first non-fiction works, \"Beyond Power: On Women, Men and Morals\" (1985), is a historical examination of the effects of patriarchy on the world. French took issue with the expectations of married women in the post-World War II era and became a leading, if controversial, opinion maker on gender issues who decried the patriarchal society she saw around her. \"My goal in life is to change the entire social and economic structure of Western civilization, to make it a feminist world,\" she once declared.\n\nFrench's first and best-known novel, \"The Women's Room\" (1977), follows the lives of Mira and her friends in 1950s and 1960s America, including Val, a militant radical feminist. The novel portrays the details of the lives of women at this time and the feminist movement of this era in the United States. At one point in the book the character Val says, \"all men are rapists, and that's all they are. They rape us with their eyes, their laws, and their codes.\" \"The Women's Room\" sold more than 20 million copies and was translated into 20 languages. Gloria Steinem, a close friend, compared the impact of the book on the discussion surrounding women's rights to the one that Ralph Ellison's \"Invisible Man\" (1952) had had on racial equality 25 years earlier.\n\nHer most significant work in later life was \"From Eve to Dawn: A History of Women\". It was published in a Dutch translation in 1995 (in one volume of 1312 pages), but did not appear in English until 2002 and 2003 (published in three volumes by Mcarthur & Company), and then again in English in four volumes (published by The Feminist Press) in 2008. It is built around the premise that exclusion from the prevailing intellectual histories denied women their past, present and future. Despite carefully chronicling a long history of oppression, the last volume ends on an optimistic note, said Florence Howe, who recently retired as director of the publishing house. \"For the first time women have history,\" she said of Ms. French's work. \"The world changed and she helped change it.\"\n\nWhile French was pleased by significant gains made by women in the three decades since her landmark novel, \"The Women's Room\", she was also just as quick to point out lingering deficiencies in gender equality.\n\nShe married Robert M. French Jr., in 1950. They had two children. The couple divorced in 1967.\n\nFrench was diagnosed with esophageal cancer in 1992. This experience was the basis for her book \"A Season in Hell: A Memoir\" (1998). She survived cancer and later died from heart failure at age 79, on May 2, 2009, in Manhattan.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31661684", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31661684", "title": "Maya Haïdar Boustani", "text": "Maya Haïdar Boustani\n\nMaya Abdallah Haïdar Boustani is a Lebanese archaeologist and curator of the Museum of Lebanese Prehistory at Saint Joseph University, Beirut.\n\nHaïdar Boustani obtained her doctorate and currently holds several notable positions as research assistant at the Museum of Lebanese Prehistory as well as lecturer at the Saint Joseph University on prehistory and archaeology. She is also a research associate for the Archéorient Laboratory, UMR 5133, Maison de l'Orient et de la Méditerranée, Lyon, France and also for the Instituto Internacional de Investigaciones Prehistóricas de Cantabria, University of Cantabria, Santander, Spain. She is also a member of the editorial board of a journal called \"Tempora: Annales of History and Archaeology\" published by the Saint Joseph University. She lectures on a variety of topics specialising in the prehistory of the Near East. Her current research includes materials procurement and distribution in the neolithic, and the neolithic development of Lebanon and Syria.\n\nIn 2001 was part of an Anglo-Lebanese mission of the Council for British Research in the Levant and the Museum of Lebanese Prehistory led by Alex Wasse and Lévon Nordigiuan to excavate at Nachcharini and survey in the Anti-Lebanon. In 2002 she carried out reconnaissance surveys in the Beqaa Valley, in collaboration with J.J. Ibañez of the University of Cantabria, Spain. In 2002 and 2003 she conducted excavations in the upper valley of Nahr Ibrahim, as part of the joint mission of the Saint Joseph University and the Directorate General of Antiquities of Lebanon, in collaboration with the Fernand Courby Institute, the Maison de l'Orient et de la Méditerranée. in 2004 she was involved in excavations in the fields below Tell Arqa as part of the French mission of the University of Paris 1 Pantheon-Sorbonne led by J.P. Thalmann. Since 2004, Boustani has been co-director of the Syrian-Lebanese-Spanish archaeological mission carrying out surveys west of Homs.\n\nShe has spoken at various international conferences and lectures on subjects such as \"The Neolithic of Lebanon, stock of knowledge\" in June 2001 as part of the \"Lundis des franciscaines \" conference circuit. In September 2001 she spoke on \"Flint Workshops of the southern Beqaa Valley (Lebanon): Preliminary results from Qaraoun\" at a conference called \"Neolithic Revolution. New perspectives on southwest Asia in light of recent discoveries in Cyprus\", organized by the Council for British Research in the Levant and the Department of Antiquities in Cyprus. In April 2003 she gave a lecture entitled \"The neolithic lumberjacks\" as part of a series organized by the Museum of Lebanese Prehistory on the Archaeology of Lebanon entitled \"Time, prehistory, Lebanon : cave, village, city\". In June 2004 as part of a lecture series entitled \"doctoriales 2004\" organized by the Institut français du Proche-Orient and the Directorate General of Antiquities of Lebanon, she spoke on \"The size of the workshops in the Beqaa\". In 2004 and 2005 she spoke to the 5th International Congress on the Archaeology of the Ancient Near East in Madrid on the survey in Homs. In 2006 she spoke on \"The Jesuits, pioneers of Lebanese Prehistory\" as part of the Founders Day celebrations at Saint Joseph University. In May 2009 she gave a lecture on \"New archaeological discoveries in the Homs Gap\" as part of a Museum conference. She has also organized an exhibition of the work of Henri Fleisch, highlighting the rapid destruction of Lebanese prehistory in 2010.\n\n\nArchaeological Reports from work in the Homs Gap\n\nWork in progress\n\nArticles in preparation\n\n"}
{"id": "629028", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=629028", "title": "Meridian (geography)", "text": "Meridian (geography)\n\nA (geographical) meridian (or line of longitude) is the half of an imaginary great circle on the Earth's surface, terminated by the North Pole and the South Pole, connecting points of equal longitude, as measured in angular degrees east or west of the Prime Meridian. The position of a point along the meridian is given by that longitude and its latitude, measured in angular degrees north or south of the Equator. Each meridian is perpendicular to all circles of latitude. Each is also the same length, being half of a great circle on the Earth's surface and therefore measuring 20,003.93 km (12,429.9 miles).\n\nThe first prime meridian was set by Eratosthenes in 276 BCE. This prime meridian was used to provide measurement of the earth, but had many issues because of the lack of latitude measurement. Many years later around the 19th century there was still concerns of the prime meridian. The idea of having one prime meridian came from William Parker Snow, because he realized the confusion of having multiple prime meridian locations. Many of theses geographical locations were traced back to the ancient Greeks, and others were created by several nations. Multiple locations for the geographical meridian meant that there was inconsistency, because each country had their own guidelines for where the prime meridian was located.\n\nThe term \"meridian\" comes from the Latin \"meridies\", meaning \"midday\"; the subsolar point passes through a given meridian at solar noon, midway between the times of sunrise and sunset on that meridian. Likewise, the Sun crosses the celestial meridian at the same time. The same Latin stem gives rise to the terms a.m. (ante meridiem) and p.m. (post meridiem) used to disambiguate hours of the day when utilizing the 12-hour clock.\n\nToward the ending of the 19th century there were two main locations that were acknowledged as the geographic location of the meridian, France and Britain. These two locations often conflicted and a settlement was reached only after there was an International Meridian Conference held, in which Greenwich was recognized as the 0° location.\n\nThe meridian through Greenwich (inside Greenwich Park), England, called the Prime Meridian, was set at zero degrees of longitude, while other meridians were defined by the angle at the center of the earth between where it and the prime meridian cross the equator. As there are 360 degrees in a circle, the meridian on the opposite side of the earth from Greenwich, the antimeridian, forms the other half of a circle with the one through Greenwich, and is at 180° longitude near the International Date Line (with land mass and island deviations for boundary reasons). The meridians from West of Greenwich (0°) to the antimeridian (180°) define the Western Hemisphere and the meridians from East of Greenwich (0°) to the antimeridian (180°) define the Eastern Hemisphere. Most maps show the lines of longitude.\n\nThe position of the prime meridian has changed a few times throughout history, mainly due to the transit observatory being built next door to the previous one (to maintain the service to shipping). Such changes had no significant practical effect. Historically, the average error in the determination of longitude was much larger than the change in position. The adoption of WGS84 (\"World Geodetic System 84\") as the positioning system has moved the geodetic prime meridian 102.478 metres east of its last astronomic position (measured at Greenwich). The position of the current geodetic prime meridian is not identified at all by any kind of sign or marking (as the older astronomic position was) in Greenwich, but can be located using a GPS receiver.\n\nIt was in the best interests of the nations to agree to one standard meridian to benefit their fast growing economy and production. The disorganized system they had before was not sufficient for their increasing mobility. The coach services in England had erratic timing before the GWT. U.S. and Canada were also improving their railroad system and needed a standard time as well. With a standard meridian, stage coach and trains were able to be more efficient. The argument of which meridian is more scientific was set aside in order to find the most convenient for practical reasons. They were also able to agree that the universal day was going to be the mean solar day. They agreed that the days would begin at midnight and the universal day would not impact the use of local time. In the \"Transactions of the Royal Society of Canada a report was submitted, dated 10 May 1894; on the Unification of the Astronomical, Civil and Nautical Days\" it states that:\n\ncivil day- begins at midnight and ends at midnight following\n\nastronomical day- begins at noon of civil day and continue until following noon\n\nnautical day- concludes at noon of civil day, starting at preceding noon\n\nThe magnetic meridian is an equivalent imaginary line connecting the magnetic south and north poles and can be taken as the horizontal component of magnetic force lines along the surface of the earth. Therefore, a compass needle will be parallel to the magnetic meridian. However, a compass needle will not be steady in the magnetic meridian, because of the longitude from east to west being complete geodesic. The angle between the magnetic and the true meridian is the magnetic declination, which is relevant for navigating with a compass. Navigators were able to use the azimuth (the horizontal angle or direction of a compass bearing) of the rising and setting Sun to measure the magnetic variation (difference between magnetic and true north).\n\nThe true meridian is the plane that passes through true north poles and true south poles at the spot of the observer. The difference between true meridian and magnetic meridian is that the true meridian is fixed while the magnetic meridian is formed through the movement of the needle. True bearing is the horizontal angle between true meridian and a line. Henry D. Thoreau classified this true meridian versus the magnetic meridian in order to have a more qualitative, intuitive, and abstract function. He used the true meridian since his compass varied by a few degrees. There were some variations. When he noted the sight line for the True Meridian from his family's house to the depot, he could check the declination of his compass before and after surveying throughout the day. He noted this variation down.\n\nThe meridian passage is the moment when a celestial object passes the meridian of longitude of the observer. At this point, the celestial object is at its highest point. When the sun passes two times an altitude while rising and setting can be averaged to give the time of meridian passage. Navigators utilized the sun’s declination and the sun’s altitude at local meridian passage, in order to calculate their latitude with the formula.\n\nLatitude = (90o – noon altitude + declination)\n\nThe declination of major stars are their angles north and south from the celestial equator. It is important to note that the Meridian passage will not occur exactly at 12 hours because of the inclination of the earth. The meridian passage can occur within a few minutes of variation.\n\nMany of these instruments rely on the ability to measure the longitude and latitude of the earth. These instruments also were typically effected by local gravity, which paired well with existing technologies such as the magnetic meridian.\n\nTools of Measurement\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44645", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44645", "title": "Michif", "text": "Michif\n\nMichif (also Mitchif, Mechif, Michif-Cree, Métif, Métchif, French Cree) is the language of the Métis people of Canada and the United States, who are the descendants of First Nations women (mainly Cree, Nakota, and Ojibwe) and fur trade workers of European ancestry (mainly French and Scottish Canadians). Currently, Michif is spoken in scattered Métis communities in the provinces of Saskatchewan and Manitoba in Canada and in North Dakota in the U.S., with about 50 speakers in Alberta, all over age 60. There are some 230 speakers of Michif in the United States (down from 390 at the 1990 census ), most of whom live in North Dakota, particularly in the Turtle Mountain Indian Reservation. There are around 300 Michif speakers in the Northwest Territories, northern Canada. Michif emerged in the early 19th century as a mixed language (not to be confused with a creole), and adopted a consistent character between about 1820 and 1840.\n\nMichif combines Cree and Métis French (Rhodes 1977, Bakker 1997:85), a variety of Canadian French, with some additional borrowing from English and indigenous languages of the Americas such as Ojibwe and Assiniboine. In general, Michif noun phrase phonology, lexicon, morphology, and syntax are derived from Métis French, while verb phrase phonology, lexicon, morphology, and syntax are from a southern variety of Plains Cree. (Plains Cree is a western dialect of Cree.) Articles and adjectives are also of Métis French origin but demonstratives are from Plains Cree.\n\nThe Michif language was first brought to scholarly attention in 1976 by John Crawford at the University of North Dakota. Much of the subsequent research on Michif was also related to UND, including four more pieces by Crawford, plus work by Evans, Rhodes, and Weaver.\n\nThe Michif language is unusual (and possibly even unique) among mixed languages, in that rather than forming a simplified grammar, it developed by incorporating complex elements of the chief languages from which it was born. French-origin noun phrases retain lexical gender and adjective agreement; Cree-origin verbs retain much of their polysynthetic structure. This suggests that instead of haltingly using words from another's tongue, the people who gradually came to speak Michif were fully fluent in both French and Cree.\n\nThe number of speakers is estimated at fewer than 1,000; it was probably double or triple this number at the close of the 19th century, but never much higher.\n\nMichif as recorded starting in the 1970s combined two separate phonological systems: one for French origin elements, and one for Cree origin elements (Rhodes 1977, 1986). For instance, /y/, /l/, /r/ and /f/ exist only in French words, whereas preaspirated stops such as and exist only in Cree words. In this variety of Michif, the French elements were pronounced in ways that have distinctively Canadian French values for the vowels, while the Cree elements have distinctively Cree values for vowels. Nonetheless, there is some Cree influence on French words in the stress system (Rosen 2006). But by the year 2000 there were Michif speakers who had collapsed the two systems into a single system (Rosen 2007).\n\nMichif has eleven oral vowels and four nasalized vowels.\n\nThe following four vowels are nasalized in Michif:\n\nA schwa /ə/ appearing between two consonants in French-origin words is dropped in Michif. Examples of this process are listed in the table below.\n\nIn French, a liaison is used to bridge the gap between word-final and word-initial vowel sounds. This process does not occur in Michif, though some remnants of it are evident. For many nouns, liaison consonants become integrated into the noun itself.\n\nThe voiced alveolar stop /d/ in French-origin words is palatalized to /dʒ/ in Michif, as it is in Acadian French. This may occur word-initially or word-internally.\n\nA comparison of some common words in English, French, Michif, and Cree:\n\nNouns are almost always accompanied by a French-origin determiner or a possessive.\n\nCree-origin demonstratives can be added to noun phrases, in which case the Cree gender (animate or inanimate) is that of the corresponding Cree noun.\n\nAdjectives are French-origin (Cree has no adjectives), and as in French they are either pre- or postnominal. Prenominal adjectives agree in gender (like French), however, postnominal adjectives do not agree in gender (unlike French).\n\nThe verb phrase is that of Plains Cree-origin with little reduction (there are no dubitative or preterit verb forms).\n\nMichif word order is basically that of Cree (relatively free). However, the more French-origin elements are used, the closer the syntax seems to conform to norms of spoken French.\n\nNouns: 83-94% French-origin; others are mostly Cree-origin, Ojibwe-origin, or English-origin\nVerbs: 88-99% Cree-origin\nQuestion words: Cree-origin\nPersonal pronouns: Cree\nPostpositions: Cree-origin\nPrepositions: French-origin\nConjunctions: 55% Cree-origin; 40% French-origin\nNumerals: French-origin\nDemonstratives: Cree-origin\n\nThe Lord's Prayer in English, French, and Michif:\n\nIn languages of mixed ethnicities, the language of the mother usually provides the grammatical system, while the language of the father provides the lexicon. The reasons are as follows: children tend to know their mother’s language better; in the case of the Métis, the men were often immigrants, whereas the women were native to the region. If the bilingual children need to use either of their parents’ languages to converse with outsiders, it is most likely to be the language of their mothers. Thus, the model of language-mixing predicts that Michif should have a Cree grammatical system and French lexicon. However, in reality, Michif has Cree verb phrases and French noun phrases. The explanation for this unusual distribution of Cree and French elements in Michif lies in the polysynthetic nature of Cree morphology. In Cree, verbs can be very complex with up to twenty morphemes, incorporated nouns and unclear boundaries between morphemes. In other words, in Cree verbs it is very difficult to separate grammar from lexicon. As a result, in Michif the grammatical and bound elements are almost all Cree, and the lexical and free elements are almost all French; verbs are almost totally Cree, because the verb consists of grammatical and bound elements. Seen in this way, it can be argued that Michif is fundamentally Cree, but with heavy French borrowing (somewhat like Maltese, a mixed Arabic-Italian language classified as fundamentally Arabic).\n\nMétis cultural centres such as the Michif Cultural and Métis Resource Institute in St. Albert, Alberta, the Métis Culture and Heritage Resource Centre in Winnipeg, and the Gabriel Dumont Institute of Native Studies and Applied Research are attempting to revive the language through public outreach.\n\nAs of 2013, the \"Northern Journal\" reports that \"Aboriginal language and culture is becoming increasingly visible\" in Alberta, as Alberta's Northland School Division, \"serving mostly First Nations and Métis students in the northern part of the province\" has expanded its community partnerships and culture camps.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4542246", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4542246", "title": "Mshatta Facade", "text": "Mshatta Facade\n\nThe Mshatta Facade is the decorated part of the facade of the 8th century Umayyad residential palace of Qasr Mshatta, one of the Desert Castles of Jordan, which is now installed in the south wing of the Pergamon Museum in Berlin, Germany. It is part of the permanent exhibition of the Pergamon Museum of Islamic Art dedicated to Islamic art from the 8th to the 19th centuries. This was only a relatively small section of the full length of the facade, surrounding the main entrance; most of the wall was undecorated and remains \"in situ\".\n\nThe facade belonged to the Qasr Mshatta or Mshatta palace, which was excavated about 30 km south of the contemporary Jordanian capital of Amman. It is thought to have served as a winter residence and storage halls during the Umayyad period. The building of the palace probably dates to the era of the caliph Al-Walid II (743-744). After Al Walid was murdered, it was left incomplete and later ruined in an earthquake. The sections of the outer wall remaining \"in situ\" are much plainer.\n\nUnusually for an Umayyad building, the main structures are built from burnt bricks resting on a foundation layer of finely dressed stone; the carved facade is also in stone. The name of the place, Mshatta, is a name used by the modern Bedouins in the area, and the original name remains unknown.\n\nThe remains of the palace were excavated in 1840. The facade was a gift from the Ottoman Sultan Abdul Hamid II to Emperor Wilhelm II of Germany. A large part of it was brought to the then Kaiser-Friedrich-Museum (now the Bode Museum) in Berlin in 1903. It was reconstructed as a 33 metres long, 5 metres high facade, with two towers, and parts of a central gateway. In 1932 it was reconstructed in the Pergamon Museum. It was seriously damaged during the Second World War and the bombardment of Berlin. Today, it is one of the most important exhibits of the \"Museum für Islamische Kunst\" in the Pergamon Museum, and a key monument of early Islamic art and architecture, demonstrating early forms of the arabesque, millefleur and also animals carved in relief.\n\nThere has been much discussion of the fact that the decoration on the left side of the facade contains many animals among the foliar forms, while on the right of the entranceway in the centre there are no animals. It has been suggested that this is because the right-hand side was the outside wall of the mosque.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19621728", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19621728", "title": "National Debt Clock", "text": "National Debt Clock\n\nThe National Debt Clock is a billboard-sized running total display which constantly updates to show the current United States gross national debt and each American family's share of the debt. It is currently installed on the western side of One Bryant Park, west of Sixth Avenue between 42nd and 43rd Streets in Manhattan, New York City. It was the first debt clock installed anywhere.\n\nThe idea for the clock came from New York real estate developer Seymour Durst, who wanted to highlight the rising national debt. In 1989, he sponsored the installation of the first clock, which was originally placed on Sixth Avenue between 42nd and 43rd Streets, one block away from Times Square. In 2004, the original clock was dismantled and replaced by a newer clock near 44th Street and Sixth Avenue. In 2008, as the U.S. national debt exceeded $10 trillion for the first time, it was reported that the value of the debt may have exceeded the number of digits in the clock. The lit dollar-sign in the clock's leftmost digit position was later changed to the \"1\" digit to represent the ten-trillionth place. In 2017, the clock was moved again to One Bryant Park, near its original location.\n\nNew York real estate developer Seymour Durst, who invented and sponsored the clock, stated that it represents a non-partisan effort and explained the motivation behind the project in terms of intergenerational equity: \"We're a family business. We think generationally, and we don't want to see the next generation crippled by this burden.\"\n\nAccording to Seymour's son Douglas, his father had been toying with the basic idea of drawing attention to the growing national debt since at least 1980, when during the holiday season he sent cards that said \"Happy New Year. Your share of the national debt is $35,000\" to senators and congressmen. In the early 1980s, when Seymour first developed the idea of a constantly updated clock, the technology required to implement the project was not yet available. Back then, the debt was quickly approaching $1 trillion.\n\nThe first National Debt Clock was installed on February 20, 1989. The national debt stood at that year. The original clock was constructed at a cost of $100,000. It cost $500 per month to maintain the display's 305 lightbulbs. It was mounted on a now-demolished Durst building at Sixth Avenue near 42nd Street (a block from Times Square), facing the north side of 42nd Street and Bryant Park. Built by the New York sign company Artkraft Strauss, the clock featured a dot-based segment display emulating the then-typical character resolution of 5-by-7. Similar to the second clock, the updating mechanism was such that the display was set to the estimated speed of debt growth (odometer-style) and adjusted weekly according to the latest numbers published by the United States Treasury. Seymour Durst vowed that the clock would \"be up as long as the debt or the city lasts,\" and that \"if it bothers people, then it's working.\"\n\nUp until the week before his death in May 1995, Durst himself adjusted the tally via modem. After his death, his son Douglas became president of the Durst Organization, which owns and maintains the clock. Artkraft Strauss has been keeping the figures current since then. On November 15, 1995, the clock stopped counting up for the first time in its six years of operation. As a result of a federal government shutdown, the clock was frozen at a value of $4,985,567,071,200. In 1998, the clock broke down shortly after the numbers surpassed $5.5 trillion. The cause was attributed to the numbers \"being too high.\" In response, Artkraft installed a new computer inside the clock.\n\nIn early 2000, the clock started to run backward because the national debt was actually decreasing. It showed a national debt of $5.7 trillion and an individual family share of almost $74,000. With the original purpose of the clock being to highlight the rising debt, the reversal of the figures gave a mixed message, added to the fact that the display not being designed to properly run backward. In May 2000, it was reported that the clock was planned to be unplugged on September 7, 2000, what would have been Seymour Durst's 87th birthday. Douglas said that the decision to unplug the clock was made because \"it was put up to focus attention on the increasing national debt, and it's served its purpose.\" In September, the clock was unplugged and covered with a red-white-and-blue curtain, with the national debt standing at roughly 5.7 trillion dollars. However, less than two years later in July 2002, the curtain was raised and the clock once again picked up tracking a rising debt, starting at 6.1 trillion dollars.\n\nIn 2004, the original clock was moved from its location near 42nd Street, and the building where the sign had been mounted was demolished so One Bryant Park could be built. An updated model was installed one block away on the side of a Durst building at 1133 Avenue of the Americas, facing Sixth Avenue near the southeast corner of the intersection with West 44th Street. The new clock is located next to an Internal Revenue Service office. The new clock, which can run backward, is outfitted with a brighter seven-segment display with multiple LEDs per segment, allowing the numbers to be read more easily.\n\nIn the midst of extensive media attention during the financial crisis beginning in 2007, the National Debt Clock's display ran out of digits when the U.S. gross federal debt rose above on September 30, 2008. In the farthest-left space, the debt clock displayed the digit \"1\" in place of the dollar sign after the display began overflowing.\n\nAn overhaul or complete replacement adding two more digits to the clock's display was being planned . The clock would be able to show a debt of up to $1 quadrillion.\n\n, Douglas Durst's cousin Jonathan \"Jody\" Durst, with whom he currently shares a co-presidency of the company, is in the process of taking over the day-to-day operations as president. In an interview with \"The New York Times\", Jonathan said that maintenance of the clock is planned \"for years to come.\"\n\nIn June 2017, the Durst Organization announced that the National Debt Clock would be relocated again so that a new entrance for 1133 Avenue of the Americas could be built. The clock was moved to the western side of One Bryant Park, facing an alley in the middle of the block between Sixth Avenue and Broadway.\n\nThe idea of conveying a message through a periodically updated clock found an earlier expression in the Doomsday Clock. However, the innovation of the National Debt Clock was to feature a constantly running counter; it has since inspired similar projects elsewhere, both in the United States and further afield. In particular, it has become a national fixture shows that the U.S.'s increasing debt. By 1995, the \"New York Times\" reported that politicians were citing the clock to advocate for a reduction to the national budget. Various tracking counters of national debt are also kept online.\n\nThe National Debt Clock has also been credited as the inspiration behind other running totalizers, for example an AMD campaign employing an electronic billboard; instead of a debt, it tracked the supposed additional cost of using a rival chip. In 2010, a \"death clock\" parodying the debt clock was erected in Times Square, counting how many maternal deaths happen worldwide every 90 seconds.\n\nTwo displays related to the national debt were shown during the 2012 Republican National Convention. One of the displays showed a ticking number similar to the original clock. The second display showed a number estimating the amount the national debt had increased since the start of the convention. According to the Republican Party, the purpose of the RNC's clock was to underscore the fact that national debt had grown at a fast pace under the presidency of Barack Obama, who was then running for reelection. RNC chair Reince Priebus stated that the clock represented the \"unprecedented fiscal recklessness of the Obama administration.\"\n\nThe clock is featured in the 2006 documentary \"Maxed Out\", which is about national debt\".\" Several members of the Durst family appear in the film.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54907376", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54907376", "title": "National Relaxation Day", "text": "National Relaxation Day\n\nNational Relaxation Day is an annual event on 15th August. It was proposed by nine-year-old Sean Moeller in 1985.\n\nThe event is recognised on social media with the hashtag #NationalRelaxationDay – which has been used by a range of public institutions, media organisations and charities such as BBC Earth, the Mental Health Foundation, The New Scientist, Sport England and the US Army.\n"}
{"id": "18745632", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18745632", "title": "Noah Pollak", "text": "Noah Pollak\n\nNoah Pollak is an American writer specializing in issues concerning foreign policy, Israel, and the Jewish people.\n\nPollak was a regular contributor to Commentary Magazine and now writes a blog with the Weekly Standard. He also serves as the executive director of the Emergency Committee for Israel (ECI). Pollak was formally an assistant editor of the Middle East Quarterly, a publication of the Middle East Forum.\n\nDuring the 2012 presidential campaign, Pollak made public appearances as a foreign policy surrogate for the Romney campaign.\n\nUnder Pollak's leadership, the Emergency Committee for Israel has received four advertising industry awards for its work in 2011 and 2012, including a Gold award in 2012 from the American Association of Political Consultants for best overall public affairs campaign.\n\nPollak lived in Israel for two years and served as the assistant editor of Azure magazine published by the Jerusalem-based Shalem Center. Pollak has also written for National Review, the Wall Street Journal, Haaretz, Jerusalem Post, Politico, and other publications, and appeared on Fox News PBS Newshour, and CNN.\n\nPollak and ECI have frequently been criticized by mainstream liberal Jewish groups.\n\nPollak graduated from the University of Vermont in 2003 with a degree in political science and English. He was formerly an MA student in international affairs at Yale University, as well as a member of Yale's Jewish Society, Shabtai.\n\n"}
{"id": "22677", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22677", "title": "Oxymoron", "text": "Oxymoron\n\nAn oxymoron (usual plural oxymorons, more rarely oxymora) is a rhetorical device that uses an ostensible self-contradiction to illustrate a rhetorical point or to reveal a paradox.\nA more general meaning of \"contradiction in terms\" (not necessarily for rhetoric effect) is recorded by the \"OED\" for 1902..\n\nThe term is first recorded as latinized Greek ', in Maurus Servius Honoratus (c. AD 400); it is derived from the Greek ' \"sharp, keen, pointed\" and \"dull, stupid, foolish\"; as it were, \"sharp-dull\", \"keenly stupid\", or \"pointedly foolish\". The word \"oxymoron\" is autological, i.e. it is itself an example of an oxymoron. The Greek compound word \"\", which would correspond to the Latin formation, does not seem to appear in any known Ancient Greek works prior to the formation of the Latin term.\n\nOxymorons in the narrow sense are a rhetorical device used deliberately by the speaker, and intended to be understood as such by the listener.\nIn a more extended sense, the term \"oxymoron\" has also been applied to inadvertent or incidental contradictions, as in the case of \"dead metaphors\" (\"barely clothed\" or \"terribly good\"). Lederer (1990), in the spirit of \"recreational linguistics\", goes as far as to construct \"logological oxymorons\" such as reading the word \"nook\" as composed of \"no\" and \"ok\" or the surname \"Noyes\" as composed of \"no\" plus \"yes\", or far-fetched punning such as \"divorce court\", \"U.S. Army Intelligence\" or \"press release\".\nThere are a number of single-word oxymorons built from \"dependent morphemes\" (i.e. no longer a productive compound in English, but loaned as a compound from a different language), as with \"pre-posterous\" (lit. \"with the hinder part before\", compare \"husteron proteron\", \"upside-down\", \"head over heels\", ass-backwards\" etc.) or \"sopho-more\" (an artificial Greek compound, lit. \"wise-foolish\").\n\nThe most common form of oxymoron involves an adjective–noun combination of two words, but they can also be devised in the meaning of sentences or phrases.\nOne classic example of the use of oxymorons in English literature can be found in this example from Shakespeare's \"Romeo and Juliet\", where Romeo strings together thirteen in a row:\nShakespeare heaps up many more oxymorons in \"Romeo and Juliet\" in particular (\"Beautiful tyrant! fiend angelical! Dove-feather'd raven! wolvish-ravening lamb! Despised substance of divinest show!\" etc.) and uses them in other plays, e.g. \"I must be cruel only to be kind\" (\"Hamlet\"), \"fearful bravery\" (\"Julius Caesar\"), \"good mischief\" (\"The Tempest\"), and in his sonnets, e.g. \"tender churl\", \"gentle thief\".\nOther examples from English-language literature include:\n\"hateful good\" (Chaucer, translating \"odibile bonum\")\n\"proud humility\" (Spenser),\n\"darkness visible\" (Milton), \n\"beggarly riches\" (John Donne),\n\"damn with faint praise\" (Pope),\n\"expressive silence\" (Thomson, echoing Cicero's ), \n\"melancholy merriment\" (Byron),\n\"faith unfaithful\", \"falsely true\" (Tennyson),\n\"conventionally unconventional\", \"tortuous spontaneity\" (Henry James) \n\"delighted sorrow\", \"loyal treachery\", \"scalding coolness\" (Hemingway).\n\nIn literary contexts, the author does not usually signal the use of an oxymoron, but in rhetorical usage, it has become common practice to advertise the use of an oxymoron explicitly to clarify the argument, as in:\nIn this example, \"Epicurean pessimist\" would be recognized as an oxymoron in any case, as the core tenet of Epicureanism is equanimity (which would preclude any sort of pessimist outlook). However, the explicit advertisement of the use of oxymorons opened up a sliding scale of less than obvious construction, ending in the \"opinion oxymorons\" such as \"business ethics\".\n\nJ. R. R. Tolkien interpreted his own surname as derived from the Low German equivalent of \"dull-keen\" (High German \"\") which would be a literal equivalent of Greek \"oxy-moron\".\n\n\"Comical oxymoron\" is a term for the claim, for comical effect, that a certain phrase or expression is an oxymoron (called \"opinion oxymorons\" by Lederer (1990)).\nThe humour derives from implying that an assumption (which might otherwise be expected to be controversial or at least non-evident) is so obvious as to be part of the lexicon. \nAn example of such a \"comical oxymoron\" is \"educational television\": the humour derives entirely from the claim that it is an oxymoron by the implication that \"television\" is so trivial as to be inherently incompatible with \"education\".\nIn a 2009 article called \"Daredevil\", Garry Wills accused William F. Buckley of popularising this trend, based on the success of the latter's claim that \"an intelligent liberal is an oxymoron.\"\n\nExamples popularized by comedian George Carlin in 1975 include \"military intelligence\" (a play on the lexical meanings of the term \"intelligence\", implying that \"military\" inherently excludes the presence of \"intelligence\") and \"business ethics\" (similarly implying that the mutual exclusion of the two terms is evident or commonly understood rather than the partisan anti-corporate position).\n\nSimilarly, the term \"civil war\" is sometimes jokingly referred to as an \"oxymoron\" (punning on the lexical meanings of the word \"civil\").\n\nOther examples include \"healthful Mexican food\" (1989), \"affordable caviar\" (1993), and \"Microsoft Works\" (2000).\n\nListing of antonyms, such as \"good and evil\", \"male and female\", \"great and small\", etc., does not create oxymorons, as it is not implied that any given object has the two opposing properties simultaneously.\nIn some languages, it is not necessary to place a conjunction like \"and\" between the two antonyms; such compounds (not necessarily of antonyms) are known as dvandvas (a term taken from Sanskrit grammar). \nFor example, in Chinese, compounds like 男女 (man and woman, male and female, gender), 阴阳 (yin and yang), 善恶 (good and evil, morality) are used to indicate couples, ranges, or the trait that these are extremes of.\nThe Italian \"pianoforte\" or \"fortepiano\" is an example from a Western language; the term is short for \"gravicembalo col piano e forte\", as it were \"harpiscord with a range of different volumes\", implying that it is possible to play both soft and loud (as well as intermediate) notes, not that the sound produced is somehow simultaneously \"soft and loud\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8907680", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8907680", "title": "Palingenetic ultranationalism", "text": "Palingenetic ultranationalism\n\nPalingenetic ultranationalism is a theory concerning generic fascism formulated by British political theorist Roger Griffin. The key element of this theory is the belief that fascism can be defined by its core myth, namely that of revolution in order to achieve a \"national rebirth\" — palingenesis. Griffin argues that the unique synthesis of palingenesis and ultranationalism differentiates fascism from para-fascism and other authoritarian nationalist ideologies. This is what he calls the \"fascist minimum\" without which there is no fascism. \n\nThe idea was first put forth in the 1991 book \"The Nature of Fascism\", and has been expanded in a paper titled \"Staging The Nation's Rebirth: The Politics and Aesthetics of Performance in the Context of Fascist Studies\" in the 1994 volume \"Fascism and Theatre: The Politics and Aesthetics in the Era of Fascism\".\n\nRoger Griffin argues that fascism uses the \"palingenetic myth\" to attract large masses of voters who have lost their faith in traditional politics, by promising them a brighter future under fascist rule. This promise is not made exclusively by fascists: other political ideologies also incorporate some palingenetic aspects in their party programs, since politicians almost always promise to improve the situation. More radical movements often want to overthrow the old order, which has become decadent and alien to the common man. This powerful and energetic demolition of the old ways may require some form of revolution or battle, but this is represented as glorious and necessary. Such movements thus compare the (recent) past with the future, which is presented as a rebirth of society after a period of decay and misery. The palingenetic myth can also possibly stand for a return to a golden age in the country’s history, so that the past can be a guidebook to a better tomorrow, with an associated regime that superficially resembles a reactionary one. Fascism distinguishes itself by being the only ideology that focuses strongly on the revolution in its myth, or as Griffin puts it:\nThrough all this there will be one great leader who battles the representatives of the old system with grassroots support. They appear as one mass of people who have only one goal: to create their new future. They have infinite faith in their mythical hero as he stands for everything they believe in. With him, the country will rise like a phoenix from the ashes of corruption and decadence.\n\nNational-anarchism has been argued to be a syncretic political ideology that was developed in the 1990s by former Third Positionists to promote a \"stateless palingenetic ultranationalism\".\n\nMake America Great Again\n\n"}
{"id": "42562075", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42562075", "title": "Plantation Act 1740", "text": "Plantation Act 1740\n\nThe Plantation Act 1740 (referring to colonies) or the Naturalization Act 1740 are common names used for an act of the British Parliament (13 Geo. 2 c.7) that was officially titled \"An Act for Naturalizing such foreign Protestants and others therein mentioned, as are settled or shall settle in any of His Majesty's Colonies in America\". The act became effective 1 June 1740 and allowed any Protestant alien residing in any of their American colonies for seven years, without being absent from that colony for more than two months, would be deemed to be one of \"his Majesty’s natural-born subjects of this Kingdom.\" The act also required making specific declarations concerning royal allegiance and succession, profession of the Christian faith, and the payment of two shillings. Compared to other alternatives available at the time, the act provided a cheap and easy method of imperial naturalization, and the length of residency was not unreasonable.\n\nReflecting the situation in Britain, the necessary profession of Christian faith was distinctly Protestant and specifically Anglican. The act was not intended for conscientious Roman Catholics, and they were referred to in the law as Papists. Exceptions however for non-conforming religious scruples and conscience were made, in the case of Quakers and Jews. Adherents of both faiths were allowed to dispense with the Sacramental test, with the former being allowed to affirm the oaths, and the latter being relieved of the obligation to repeat the words 'Upon the true faith of a Christian', at the end of the Oath of Abjuration required by the Act of Settlement since 1701.\n\nThe Plantation Act was enacted to systematize naturalization procedures in all localities as well as to encourage immigration to the American colonies. The act provided a workable naturalization procedure by empowering colonial courts to administer the oath of allegiance to aliens. The secretaries of Colonies were required, under penalty, to send annual lists of such persons to the Commissioners of Trade and Plantations. The act endowed colonial courts with the responsibility of deciding when alien petitioners had fulfilled the statutory requirements for imperial citizenship. In proprietary colonies, the judges were appointed by colonial governors and thus represented the royal or proprietary interest. However, by delegating authority to colonial officials, Parliament subjected naturalization to the pressure of the same local interest groups that increasingly defied the governor's efforts to implement royal and proprietary instructions on other issues. Despite the penalties imposed under the act, only six Secretaries of the thirteen American Colonies and one in the West Indies submitted the mandated lists.\n\nIn England during the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries, several basic statutes applied to naturalization, but these statutes would not include many aliens in the colonies who were considered an integral part of the colonial communities. Over the same time period, the American provinces (except New Hampshire) passed their own naturalization laws, which granted citizenship to people living within their province. These laws were based more on local colonial interpretations of community citizenship than on stricter considerations in the mother-country. but they gave no rights beyond their borders. This situation was initially accepted as positive and workable in England, but proved to be too inconsistent with and broader imperial intentions as time passed.\n\nBritain began withdrawing support to promote immigration to the colonies at the end of the Seven Years' War. Colonial implementation both before and after the Plantation Act tended to ignore, evade, and reshape English regulations, thus vitiating many policy decisions and generating a chaotic array of citizenship procedures. The Navigation Acts were a particular target for evasion, since they were seen as acting more as restraint on both colonial naturalization and its peoples' ability to take part fully in the economy. Colonial naturalization of aliens was outright forbidden in December 1773, under any conditions. A ban on royal land grants, initiated earlier in 1773, was made final in February 1774.\n\nThe colonial naturalization laws and the Plantation Act, during its nearly 30-year utilization would define British North America as a refuge and land of opportunity, The prohibition on naturalizing foreigners under the act was considered intolerable, and would be included, \"inter alia\", in the grievances listed in the Declaration of Independence, though some consider that surprising. Despite being a British law, the Plantation Act \"was the model upon which the first U.S. naturalization act, with respect to time, oath of allegiance, process of swearing before a judge, and the like, was clearly based.\"\n"}
{"id": "43230212", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43230212", "title": "Revista Chilena de Historia del Derecho", "text": "Revista Chilena de Historia del Derecho\n\nThe Revista Chilena de Historia del Derecho is a peer reviewed academic journal covering legal history that is published by the University of Chile. It was established in 1959 and the editor-in-chief is Felipe Vicencio Eyzaguirre (University of Chile).\n"}
{"id": "69295", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=69295", "title": "Rock-cut tombs in ancient Israel", "text": "Rock-cut tombs in ancient Israel\n\nHundreds of rock-cut tombs were constructed in Israel in ancient times. They were cut into the rock, sometimes with elaborate facades and multiple burial chambers. Some are free-standing, but most are caves. Each tomb typically belonged to a single, wealthy family. Bodies were laid out on stone benches. After a generation, the bones were moved to a bone chamber or, later, into ossuaries and the benches used for new burials. Rock tombs were the province of the wealthy; the common people were buried in the ground.\n\nThe earliest Canaanite cut-rock cave tombs date from 3100–2900 BCE, but the custom had lapsed a millennium before the earliest Israelite tombs, which date to the 9th century BCE in Jerusalem. There are a great many Jewish tombs dating to the Second Temple period, and others in the late Roman or early Byzantine period.\n\nEarly Canaanite I (3100–2900 BCE) period tombs are the earliest rock-cut tombs yet discovered in Israel; several have been found beneath the Ophel in Jerusalem. The custom had lapsed by the second millennium.\n\nA number of rock-cut tombs are mentioned in the Bible. Possibly the first, called \"Cave of Machpelah\", was purchased by Abraham for Sarah from Ephron the Hittite (). Traditionally, this tomb, which may have been either a rock-cut or a natural cave, is identified with the Cave of the Patriarchs in modern Hebron. According to very old traditions, Abraham, Isaac and Rebekah, Jacob and Leah were also buried there (). The New Testament reaffirms this tradition: \"Their (Jacob and his family) bodies were brought back to Shechem and placed in the tomb that Abraham had bought from the sons of Hamor at Shechem for a certain sum of money\" ().\n\nRock-cut tombs are also mentioned in the Book of Judges (), the Second Book of Samuel (), and the Second Books of Kings ().\n\nThe Gospel of Matthew mentions the newly rock-cut tomb of Joseph of Arimathea ().\n\nThe Silwan necropolis, the most important ancient cemetery of the First Temple period, is assumed to have been used by the highest-ranking officials residing in Jerusalem, the capital city of the Kingdom of Judah. Its tombs were cut between the 9th and 7th centuries BCE. It islocated in the Kidron Valley across from biblical Jerusalem of the kings of Judah, in the lower part of the ridge where the village of Silwan now stands. The architecture of the tombs and the manner of burial is different \"from anything known from contemporary Palestine. Elements such as entrances located high above the surface, gabled ceilings, straight ceilings with a cornice, trough-shaped resting-places with pillows, above-ground tombs, and inscriptions engraved on the facade appear only here.\" The stone benches on which bodies were laid out and the small square entrance doors are similar to those found elsewhere in Judah. Ussishkin believes that the architectural similarity to building styles of the Phoenician cities validates the Biblical description of Phoenician influence on the Israelite kingdoms. There are three different types of tombs in the Silwan necropolis, each type concentrated in one specific area. Seven of the tombs feature gabled ceilings and extremely fine stonework. David Ussishkin describes them as \"among the most beautifully rock-cut tombs known in the Jerusalem area even when compared with tombs of later periods.\" In contrast with the extensive family tombs of later periods, these are for single or double burials, with only one of the seven having room for three bodies. Later destruction has effaced the original doorways. A second tomb type described by Ussishkin has flat ceilings and one, two, or three chambers of well-dressed stone carefully squared into spacious rooms. One features a rear chamber of especially \"impressive\" scale and quality. There are tombs combining characteristics of the two described here above. The third type consists of just three \"magnificent\" monolith tombs, now located in the northern part of the village. These have been carved out of the cliff to create free-standing buildings above the underground burial chambers. Hebrew inscriptions survive on these three tombs; these are the only ancient inscriptions that survive in Silwan.\n\nDuring the Second Temple period, rock-cut tombs were built outside the walls of the city of Jerusalem in every direction, but predominantly to the north and south of the city. The tombs extend as far as 7 km from the city walls, with the more prestigious tombs located close to the city.\n\nThe most elaborate group of tombs was in the Kidron Valley across from the Temple Mount. These include the Tomb of Benei Hezir with the adjacent so-called Tomb of Zechariah monument (actually not a tomb), and the Tomb of Absalom along with the Cave of Jehoshaphat located behind it. Among the notable tombs are the Jason's Tomb, a large, elaborate, family tomb with multiple chambers and inscriptions in both Hebrew and Greek and the Tombs of the Kings, which is actually the tomb of Queen Helena of Adiabene and her relatives. The elaborate Tombs of the Sanhedrin lie to the north of the city. They were so called by later generations because the largest of them contains 70 chambers with burial benches, and the Sanhedrin had seventy members. Each of the three tombs would actually have contained the burials of a single, multi-generational, wealthy family. They were constructed between the reign of Herod and the year 70.\n\nAccording to the Gospels, Jesus was laid out in a rock-cut tomb owned by Joseph of Arimathea. Proposed candidates for the tomb include the rock-cut chamber inside the Church of the Holy Sepulchre, the Talpiot Tomb, and the Garden Tomb.\n\nBeit She'arim National Park in the Galilee preserves a large number of rock-cut Jewish tombs from the 2nd to 4th centuries CE.\n"}
{"id": "32483369", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32483369", "title": "Shafta Awards (journalism)", "text": "Shafta Awards (journalism)\n\nThe Shafta Awards are British awards given annually for \"the very worst in tabloid journalism\". They were established in 1987 following a \"Daily Star\" story \"Princess Margaret to appear in Crossroads\" by Geoff Baker and Pat Codd, in honour of which they are also known as the \"Princess Margaret Awards\". \"The Guardian\" wrote in 2008 that \"Shaftas host Johnny Vaughan often sums up the awards' ethos by quoting a tabloid journalist who once told a colleague: 'Fuck the facts, just quote a friend - the pub's open in 10 minutes.'\" Piers Morgan, winner of a lifetime achievement Shafta in 2005, described the awards as \"celebrat[ing] what I believe to be the very essence of Fleet Street: the regular ability of adult, intelligent, well-educated, street-smart journalists to behave like complete and utter numbskulls.\" The awards were originally little more than a meeting in a pub, and were not held between 1997 and 2001, when they were revived by \"The People\"<nowiki>'</nowiki>s showbiz editor Sean O'Brien. \n\nWinners include Sean Hoare and Piers Morgan, winning lifetime achievement Shaftas in 2004 and 2005 respectively. James Desborough also won the \"\"can we hear the tape?\" award for verbatim quotes\" in 2002 for an interview with George Martin that Salon.com alleged included a fabricated quote.\n"}
{"id": "15113960", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15113960", "title": "Statue of Cosimo I", "text": "Statue of Cosimo I\n\nThe statue of Cosimo I de' Medici stands in the middle of Knights' Square of Pisa, just in front of Palazzo della Carovana.\n\nIt was commissioned by Grand Duke Ferdinando I in 1596 to the Franco-Flemish sculptor Pietro Francavilla, who executed it in the elegant Late Mannerist tradition. The statue celebrates Ferdinando's father as the first Grand Master of the Order of the Knights of St. Stephen and is a civic symbol of the hegemony of Florence.\n\nThe Grand Duke Cosimo is represented in the robes of Grand Master, standing on a high pedestal, in the act of subduing a dolphin, symbol of his domination over the seas. The fountain, in front of the pedestal, was also erected by Francavilla. It has a basin in the form of a shell decorated with two grotesque monsters.\n\nThe statue has been damaged in the course of time.\n"}
{"id": "1289576", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1289576", "title": "Susan Cummings (heiress)", "text": "Susan Cummings (heiress)\n\nSusan Cummings (born July 21, 1962 in Monte Carlo, Monaco) is an American heiress, best known for killing her boyfriend in 1997. She had been charged with homicide, but subsequently convicted of voluntary manslaughter only. She was released after serving 57 days.\n\nCummings had been in a relationship with Argentine polo player Roberto Villegas, who had emigrated to the US in 1991. It was common for Argentine polo players to be recruited onto teams owned by wealthy landowners. The players would also be supplied with horses and accommodation.\n\nCummings met Villegas in 1995 and by 1996 the relationship had got more intense. He forwent returning to Florida for the polo season to help her on her farm. Cummings was a frugal woman so she never paid Villegas for his work; however, she did pay his rent and costs for the horses he owned that he kept on her farm. Cummings had a lot of control over Villegas due to his not having a real income. By mid 1997, strains on the relationship were starting to show.\n\nOn the day of his death, Villegas was to play in a polo tournament representing Argentina. He left his apartment and traveled to Cumming's farm (where he also stored his gear). At 9 in the morning, Cummings shot Villegas four times in the second kitchen of the main house.\n\nShe told the 911 dispatcher and police that he had turned abusive towards her, threatening her with a knife. Villegas was found with a knife crossing his arm. Cummings had cuts on her arm, which police suspected were self-inflicted. She was arrested on charges of homicide. She was represented by Blair Howard. Howard's law firm claims he is one of the best ten lawyers in the country.\n\nCummings was convicted on May 13, 1998, of voluntary manslaughter in the death of her boyfriend, and was sentenced to 60 days in jail and ordered to pay $2,500; she was released after serving 57 days.\n\nCummings and her fraternal twin sister, Diana, are the only children of billionaire arms dealer Samuel Cummings. After the family moved to the United States, Samuel Cummings bought his daughters a lavish estate in Warrenton, Virginia, named Ashland Farms. It was here that Cummings shot Villegas on September 7, 1997.\n\nMs. Cummings sold the \"Ashland Farm\" estate on the edge of Warrenton in Fauquier County, Virginia for $4.9 million in 2004. She and her twin sister Diana moved to the LeBaron Farm in Culpeper County, Virginia. Their manor house, designed by the firm of Versaci Neumann Partners, won recognition in the 2006 Washingtonian Residential Design awards.\n\nIn 2002, this case was the focus of an episode of Dominick Dunne's Power, Privilege, and Justice. Entitled \"A Scandal in Hunt County,\" this was the third episode of Season One.\n\nIn 2004, Lisa Pulitzer wrote a book on the case called \"A Woman Scorned\".\n\nA Biography Channel program about the case included an interview with a young Tareq Salahi, who was a friend of Roberto Villegas.\n\nSusan Cummings' case was featured in an episode of \"Behind Mansion Walls\", and on the Investigation Discovery channel program \"Vanity Fair Confidential\", season 2, episode 8, entitled \"Love's Deadly Harness\".\n"}
{"id": "47135208", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47135208", "title": "Susan Hockey", "text": "Susan Hockey\n\nSusan Hockey is an Emeritus Professor of Library and Information Studies at University College London. She has written about the history of digital humanities, the development of text analysis applications, electronic textual mark-up, teaching computing in the humanities, and the role of libraries in managing digital resources. In 2014, the University College of London created a Digital Humanities lecture series in her honour.\n\nHockey was born Susan Petty in 1946 in Halifax, West Yorkshire, and educated at Princess Mary High School, Halifax and Lady Margaret Hall, Oxford. \nIn 1969 she joined the Atlas Computer Laboratory at Chilton in Oxfordshire. She became a founding member of the Association for Literary and Linguistic Computing (ALLC) in 1973 and in 1975 she joined Oxford University Computing Services. At Atlas she developed software for the display of non-Western characters. At Oxford she was instrumental in developing the Oxford Concordance Program from COCOA, an early piece of software used in humanities computing. These tools have become central to the practice of the digital humanities in the United States and UK.\n\nFrom 1991 to 1997 Hockey was director of the Center for Electronic Texts in the Humanities at Rutgers and Princeton Universities in New Jersey. From 1997 to 1999 she was Professor and Director of the Canadian Institute for Research Computing in Arts at the University of Alberta in Edmonton. In 2000 she joined University College London as Professor of Library and Information Studies, and from 2001 was Director of the School of Library, Archive and Information Studies at UCL. She retired in 2004.\n\nIn 2004, Hockey was awarded the Alliance of Digital Humanities Organizations's Roberto Busa Prize in recognition of \"outstanding lifetime achievements in the application of information and communications technologies to humanities research\".\n\nShe is a founding member of several major digital humanities-related associations such as the Association for Literary and Linguistic Computing (ALLC), 1973, and the Association for Computers and the Humanities (ACH), 1978, and an editor of the Association for Literary and Linguistic Computing (ALLC) Bulletin, 1979–83, chair of the Association for Literary and Linguistic Computing (ALLC), 1984–97 and member of the steering committee of the Text Encoding Initiative (TEI), 1987–99.\n\n"}
{"id": "42512711", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42512711", "title": "The Divide: American Injustice in the Age of the Wealth Gap", "text": "The Divide: American Injustice in the Age of the Wealth Gap\n\nThe Divide: American Injustice in the Age of the Wealth Gap is a 2014 non-fiction book by journalist Matt Taibbi about income inequality in the United States and its impact on the American conception of justice and the legal system.\n\nPublished by Spiegel & Grau, the book illustrates the \"divide\" by looking at the relationship between growing income inequality and the criminalization of poverty, as poor people are increasingly harassed, arrested and imprisoned for minor crimes in the U.S., sometimes for no actual crime at all, even as crime rates continue to plummet, resulting in a prison population that \"is now the biggest in the history of human civilization.\" At the same time, Taibbi writes, white-collar criminals who continue to defraud the financial system avoid punishment, allowing them to accumulate even more wealth without fear of future prosecution. Taibbi argues that as a result of this divide, money has now redefined the meaning of justice, distorting the very notion of American citizenship and challenging the founding ideals of its nation. The \"Los Angeles Times\" called the book \"advocacy journalism at its finest, an attempt to stir us up.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11957405", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11957405", "title": "Tokyo Kodomo Club", "text": "Tokyo Kodomo Club\n\n, meaning Tokyo Children Club, is an early childhood education program published in Japan in an audio-visual format, distributed monthly on a record. The 7-inch record contained stories and songs, accompanied by a picture book that could be bound in a special folder. The early-childhood education program came in two courses: a 2-4 year old course and a 5-7 year old course. Each of the courses was designed to complete in 12 months. In addition on a quarterly basis, the Club sent out supplemental stories, songs and other music on a 12-inch record. The recitations on Side A were by , and on Side B, . The records were monaural recordings at 33-1/3 rpm. Presently, the recordings have gone out of print, making their procurement quite difficult.\n\nThe programs were designed to familiarize children with stories and songs from around the world, with emphasis on European orchestral works. Main story narration often featured Classical music as a background music in order to help set the tone of the story. The bullets found in the index to each lesson were color-coded: red for the main story, blue for the songs and yellow for the occasional extra story. In the original course series, the main stories and songs were bulleted with a star and the extra stories with a circle. However, in later course series, they switched their bullets to red circles, blue squares and yellow triangles, keeping the same color code as before.\n\nThe Kodomo Concert Hall series were recordings of the Tokyo Symphony Orchestra.\n\nThe Tokyo Kodomo Club issued two courses of children’s songs in English for the Japanese audience in the ' series. These songs were sung by Esther Ghan and her children. The ' course was designed similarly to their Japanese courses, where the lesson units were distributed monthly on a record. Each of the courses was designed to complete in 12 months, with the course set spanning two years. For the older children, in a set of six lesson units and a Christmas supplement were provided. It also spanned over two years.\n\n\nOriginal Address:\n\nCurrent address:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "544484", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=544484", "title": "Trade justice", "text": "Trade justice\n\nTrade justice is a campaign by non-governmental organisations, plus efforts by other actors, to change the rules and practices of world trade in order to promote fairness. These organizations include consumer groups, trade unions, faith groups, aid agencies and environmental groups.\n\nThe organizations campaigning for trade justice posit this concept in opposition to free trade, the advocates of which often also claim pro-poor outcomes. Trade justice advocates argue that truly free trade does not and will never exist, and that governmental policies on trade should be in the public interest, rather than the interest of wealthy entities who try to influence trade negotiation to benefit their individual interests. Advocates of trade justice argue that growing inequity and serious gaps in social justice, and the global export of terrorism, are symptoms of an economic system that permits harms to be exported to other countries, while importing their goods. They point to extinction, deforestation, social unrest, as consequences of globalisation, and in particular of an \"unfair\" globalisation. In the past, the responses sought by critics of the international trade system included various penalties on \"unfair\" goods. This argument generally made little headway against the long-term movement towards free trade; imposition of penalties for \"dumping\" was sometimes motivated by domestic political reasons such as the United States imposition of steel tariffs in 2001).\n\nToday, the trade justice movement concentrates more on the abolition of agricultural subsidies and dumping, and to a much lesser extent on offsetting penalties on \"unfair\" goods. Indeed, although there are many who are still critical of free trade in general, there is a trend towards campaigning against what is seen as hypocrisy by developed countries in using protectionism against the poorest countries, especially in agricultural products, while requiring them to leave their own producers without protection.\n\nThe Trade Justice Movement in the UK was the first formal coalition of groups to use the term \"trade justice\" (partly because in the UK, \"fair trade\" usually refers to Fairtrade certification and is a consumer model of change rather than an overtly political movement calling for government action). The term trade justice has been widely adopted internationally by campaign groups, for example by the over 100 national platforms of the Global Call to Action Against Poverty where it is one of the four main demands. In many countries \"fair trade\" is used as well as or instead of \"trade justice\".\n\nThe global institutions that are most often targeted in trade justice campaigns against the alleged injustices of the current international trade system are the World Trade Organization (WTO), the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and the World Bank (WB). Campaigners also lobby their own governments with the intention of creating pressure on them to prioritise poverty reduction when making international trade rules. In trading blocs such as the European Union (EU), the campaigns seek to influence policy across a number of member state governments.\n\n\"Trade Justice\" and \"Fair Trade\" were originally used by those supporting social justice and the alleviation of the intense poverty found in many developing nations. They contrasted \"fair trade\" with 'unfair' international trade practices. It is associated particularly with labour unions and environmentalists, in their criticism of disparities between the protections for capital versus those for labour and the environment. The use of the term has expanded beyond campaigns to reform current trading practices, and the major institutions such as the World Trade Organization which embody them. Now it has become a movement to allow consumers to choose \"not\" to participate in these practices. Fairtrade labelling or \"Fairtrade certification\" allows consumers to identify goods especially commodities such as coffee, that meet certain agreed standards of fairness.\n\nAcademics such as Thomas Alured Faunce argue that the insertion of a constructive ambiguity such as valuing innovation in bilateral trade agreements (and then according normative and ongoing lobbying power to such textual negotiating truces by formally linking them with non-violation nullification of benefits provisions) may undermine democratic sovereignty with regard to construction of domestic policy, particularly in areas such as the environment and public health. This view is strenuously contested by trade law officials and many domestic policy makers.\n\n\"The mostly widely referred to demand of trade justice campaigners is access to the markets of developed countries or rich countries. When developing countries export to developed country markets, they often face tariff barriers that can be as much as four times higher than those encountered by developed countries. Poverty claims that those barriers cost poor countries $100 billion a year – twice as much as they receive in aid.\"\n\nMost trade justice campaigners focus in some way on the agricultural subsidies of rich countries that make it difficult for farmers in poor countries to compete. For example, they argue that the European Union's agricultural export subsidies encourage overproduction of goods such as tomatoes or sugar, which are then sold cheaply or 'dumped' in poor countries. Local farmers cannot sell their goods as cheaply and go out of business.\n\nThe campaign points to the treatment of agriculture at the WTO, which has institutionalised these injustices. In the few instances where developing countries have used the complex and expensive WTO process to declare subsidies (e.g. US cotton subsidies) excessive, developed countries ignore these rulings, which the WTO itself does not enforce. Recently rich countries have begun to talk about cutting export subsidies, but they often demand greater access to poor country markets in return.\n\nThe term \"trade justice\" emphasizes that even if the playing field were level, instead of tilted against developing countries, the poorest developing countries in particular would still struggle to gain from trade if forced to trade under free trade terms. This is because of their overwhelming lack of competitiveness – poor countries do not have huge stocks of exports waiting to be shipped to rich countries, instead most small farmers want to be able to sell their goods locally.\n\n"}
{"id": "33734529", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33734529", "title": "Visual arts", "text": "Visual arts\n\nThe visual arts are art forms such as ceramics, drawing, painting, sculpture, printmaking, design, crafts, photography, video, filmmaking, and architecture. Many artistic disciplines (performing arts, conceptual art, textile arts) involve aspects of the visual arts as well as arts of other types. Also included within the visual arts are the applied arts such as industrial design, graphic design, fashion design, interior design and decorative art.\n\nCurrent usage of the term \"visual arts\" includes fine art as well as the applied, decorative arts and crafts, but this was not always the case. Before the Arts and Crafts Movement in Britain and elsewhere at the turn of the 20th century, the term 'artist' was often restricted to a person working in the fine arts (such as painting, sculpture, or printmaking) and not the handicraft, craft, or applied art media. The distinction was emphasized by artists of the Arts and Crafts Movement, who valued vernacular art forms as much as high forms. Art schools made a distinction between the fine arts and the crafts, maintaining that a craftsperson could not be considered a practitioner of the arts.\n\nThe increasing tendency to privilege painting, and to a lesser degree sculpture, above other arts has been a feature of Western art as well as East Asian art. In both regions painting has been seen as relying to the highest degree on the imagination of the artist, and the furthest removed from manual labour – in Chinese painting the most highly valued styles were those of \"scholar-painting\", at least in theory practiced by gentleman amateurs. The Western hierarchy of genres reflected similar attitudes.\n\nTraining in the visual arts has generally been through variations of the apprentice and workshop systems. In Europe the Renaissance movement to increase the prestige of the artist led to the academy system for training artists, and today most of the people who are pursuing a career in arts train in art schools at tertiary levels. Visual arts have now become an elective subject in most education systems.\n\nDrawing is a means of making an image, using any of a wide variety of tools and techniques. It generally involves making marks on a surface by applying pressure from a tool, or moving a tool across a surface using dry media such as graphite pencils, pen and ink, inked brushes, wax color pencils, crayons, charcoals, pastels, and markers. Digital tools that simulate the effects of these are also used. The main techniques used in drawing are: line drawing, hatching, crosshatching, random hatching, scribbling, stippling, and blending. An artist who excels in drawing is referred to as a \"draftsman\" or \"draughtsman\".\n\nDrawing goes back at least 16,000 years to Paleolithic cave representations of animals such as those at Lascaux in France and Altamira in Spain. In ancient Egypt, ink drawings on papyrus, often depicting people, were used as models for painting or sculpture. Drawings on Greek vases, initially geometric, later developed to the human form with black-figure pottery during the 7th century BC.\n\nWith paper becoming common in Europe by the 15th century, drawing was adopted by masters such as Sandro Botticelli, Raphael, Michelangelo, and Leonardo da Vinci who sometimes treated drawing as an art in its own right rather than a preparatory stage for painting or sculpture.\n\nPainting taken literally is the practice of applying pigment suspended in a carrier (or medium) and a binding agent (a glue) to a surface (support) such as paper, canvas or a wall. However, when used in an artistic sense it means the use of this activity in combination with drawing, composition, or other aesthetic considerations in order to manifest the expressive and conceptual intention of the practitioner. Painting is also used to express spiritual motifs and ideas; sites of this kind of painting range from artwork depicting mythological figures on pottery to The Sistine Chapel to the human body itself.\n\nLike drawing, painting has its documented origins in caves and on rock faces. The finest examples, believed by some to be 32,000 years old, are in the Chauvet and Lascaux caves in southern France. In shades of red, brown, yellow and black, the paintings on the walls and ceilings are of bison, cattle, horses and deer.\nPaintings of human figures can be found in the tombs of ancient Egypt. In the great temple of Ramses II, Nefertari, his queen, is depicted being led by Isis. The Greeks contributed to painting but much of their work has been lost. One of the best remaining representations are the Hellenistic Fayum mummy portraits. Another example is mosaic of the Battle of Issus at Pompeii, which was probably based on a Greek painting. Greek and Roman art contributed to Byzantine art in the 4th century BC, which initiated a tradition in icon painting.\n\nApart from the illuminated manuscripts produced by monks during the Middle Ages, the next significant contribution to European art was from Italy's renaissance painters. From Giotto in the 13th century to Leonardo da Vinci and Raphael at the beginning of the 16th century, this was the richest period in Italian art as the \"chiaroscuro\" techniques were used to create the illusion of 3-D space.\nPainters in northern Europe too were influenced by the Italian school. Jan van Eyck from Belgium, Pieter Bruegel the Elder from the Netherlands and Hans Holbein the Younger from Germany are among the most successful painters of the times. They used the glazing technique with oils to achieve depth and luminosity.\n\nThe 17th century witnessed the emergence of the great Dutch masters such as the versatile Rembrandt who was especially remembered for his portraits and Bible scenes, and Vermeer who specialized in interior scenes of Dutch life.\n\nThe Baroque started after the Renaissance, from the late 16th century to the late 17th century. Main artists of the Baroque included Caravaggio, who made heavy use of tenebrism. Peter Paul Rubens was a flemish painter who studied in Italy, worked for local churches in Antwerp and also painted a series for Marie de' Medici. Annibale Carracci took influences from the Sistine Chapel and created the genre of illusionistic ceiling painting. Much of the development that happened in the Baroque was because of the Protestant Reformation and the resulting Counter Reformation. Much of what defines the Baroque is dramatic lighting and overall visuals.\n\nImpressionism began in France in the 19th century with a loose association of artists including Claude Monet, Pierre-Auguste Renoir and Paul Cézanne who brought a new freely brushed style to painting, often choosing to paint realistic scenes of modern life outside rather than in the studio. This was achieved through a new expression of aesthetic features demonstrated by brush strokes and the impression of reality. They achieved intense colour vibration by using pure, unmixed colours and short brush strokes. The movement influenced art as a dynamic, moving through time and adjusting to new found techniques and perception of art. Attention to detail became less of a priority in achieving, whilst exploring a biased view of landscapes and nature to the artists eye.\n\nTowards the end of the 19th century, several young painters took impressionism a stage further, using geometric forms and unnatural colour to depict emotions while striving for deeper symbolism. Of particular note are Paul Gauguin, who was strongly influenced by Asian, African and Japanese art, Vincent van Gogh, a Dutchman who moved to France where he drew on the strong sunlight of the south, and Toulouse-Lautrec, remembered for his vivid paintings of night life in the Paris district of Montmartre.\n\nEdvard Munch, a Norwegian artist, developed his symbolistic approach at the end of the 19th century, inspired by the French impressionist Manet. \"The Scream\" (1893), his most famous work, is widely interpreted as representing the universal anxiety of modern man. Partly as a result of Munch's influence, the German expressionist movement originated in Germany at the beginning of the 20th century as artists such as Ernst Kirschner and Erich Heckel began to distort reality for an emotional effect.\nIn parallel, the style known as cubism developed in France as artists focused on the volume and space of sharp structures within a composition. Pablo Picasso and Georges Braque were the leading proponents of the movement. Objects are broken up, analyzed, and re-assembled in an abstracted form. By the 1920s, the style had developed into surrealism with Dali and Magritte.\n\nPrintmaking is creating, for artistic purposes, an image on a matrix that is then transferred to a two-dimensional (flat) surface by means of ink (or another form of pigmentation). Except in the case of a monotype, the same matrix can be used to produce many examples of the print.\n\nHistorically, the major techniques (also called media) involved are woodcut, line engraving, etching, lithography, and screenprinting (serigraphy, silkscreening) but there are many others, including modern digital techniques. Normally, the print is printed on paper, but other mediums range from cloth and vellum to more modern materials. Major printmaking traditions include that of Japan (\"ukiyo-e\").\n\nPrints in the Western tradition produced before about 1830 are known as old master prints. In Europe, from around 1400 AD woodcut, was used for master prints on paper by using printing techniques developed in the Byzantine and Islamic worlds. Michael Wolgemut improved German woodcut from about 1475, and Erhard Reuwich, a Dutchman, was the first to use cross-hatching. At the end of the century Albrecht Dürer brought the Western woodcut to a stage that has never been surpassed, increasing the status of the single-leaf woodcut.\n\nIn China, the art of printmaking developed some 1,100 years ago as illustrations alongside text cut in woodblocks for printing on paper. Initially images were mainly religious but in the Song Dynasty, artists began to cut landscapes. During the Ming (1368–1644) and Qing (1616–1911) dynasties, the technique was perfected for both religious and artistic engravings.\n\nWoodblock printing in Japan (Japanese: 木版画, moku hanga) is a technique best known for its use in the ukiyo-e artistic genre; however, it was also used very widely for printing books in the same period. Woodblock printing had been used in China for centuries to print books, long before the advent of movable type, but was only widely adopted in Japan surprisingly late, during the Edo period (1603–1867). Although similar to woodcut in western printmaking in some regards, moku hanga differs greatly in that water-based inks are used (as opposed to western woodcut, which uses oil-based inks), allowing for a wide range of vivid color, glazes and color transparency.\n\nPhotography is the process of making pictures by means of the action of light. Light patterns reflected or emitted from objects are recorded onto a sensitive medium or storage chip through a timed exposure. The process is done through mechanical shutters or electronically timed exposure of photons into chemical processing or digitizing devices known as cameras.\n\nThe word comes from the Greek words φως \"phos\" (\"light\"), and γραφις \"graphis\" (\"stylus\", \"paintbrush\") or γραφη \"graphê\", together meaning \"drawing with light\" or \"representation by means of lines\" or \"drawing.\" Traditionally, the product of photography has been called a photograph. The term \"photo\" is an abbreviation; many people also call them \"pictures.\" In digital photography, the term \"image\" has begun to replace \"photograph.\" (The term \"image\" is traditional in geometric optics.)\n\nFilmmaking is the process of making a motion-picture, from an initial conception and research, through scriptwriting, shooting and recording, animation or other special effects, editing, sound and music work and finally distribution to an audience; it refers broadly to the creation of all types of films, embracing documentary, strains of theatre and literature in film, and poetic or experimental practices, and is often used to refer to video-based processes as well\n\nVisual artists are no longer limited to traditional art media. Computers have been used as an ever more common tool in the visual arts since the 1960s. Uses include the capturing or creating of images and forms, the editing of those images and forms (including exploring multiple compositions) and the final rendering or printing (including 3D printing).\n\nComputer art is any in which computers played a role in production or display. Such art can be an image, sound, animation, video, CD-ROM, DVD, video game, website, algorithm, performance or gallery installation. Many traditional disciplines are now integrating digital technologies and, as a result, the lines between traditional works of art and new media works created using computers have been blurred. For instance, an artist may combine traditional painting with algorithmic art and other digital techniques. As a result, defining computer art by its end product can be difficult. Nevertheless, this type of art is beginning to appear in art museum exhibits, though it has yet to prove its legitimacy as a form unto itself and this technology is widely seen in contemporary art more as a tool rather than a form as with painting.\n\nComputer usage has blurred the distinctions between illustrators, photographers, photo editors, 3-D modelers, and handicraft artists. Sophisticated rendering and editing software has led to multi-skilled image developers. Photographers may become digital artists. Illustrators may become animators. Handicraft may be computer-aided or use computer-generated imagery as a template. Computer clip art usage has also made the clear distinction between visual arts and page layout less obvious due to the easy access and editing of clip art in the process of paginating a document, especially to the unskilled observer.\n\nPlastic arts is a term for art forms that involve physical manipulation of a plastic medium by moulding or modeling such as sculpture or ceramics. The term has also been applied to \"all the visual (non-literary, non-musical) arts\".\n\nMaterials that can be carved or shaped, such as stone or wood, concrete or steel, have also been included in the narrower definition, since, with appropriate tools, such materials are also capable of modulation. This use of the term \"plastic\" in the arts should not be confused with Piet Mondrian's use, nor with the movement he termed, in French and English, \"Neoplasticism.\"\n\nSculpture is three-dimensional artwork created by shaping or combining hard or plastic material, sound, or text and or light, commonly stone (either rock or marble), clay, metal, glass, or wood. Some sculptures are created directly by finding or ; others are assembled, built together and fired, welded, molded, or cast. Sculptures are often painted.\nA person who creates sculptures is called a sculptor.\n\nBecause sculpture involves the use of materials that can be moulded or modulated, it is considered one of the plastic arts. The majority of public art is sculpture. Many sculptures together in a garden setting may be referred to as a sculpture garden.\n\nSculptors do not always make sculptures by hand. With increasing technology in the 20th century and the popularity of conceptual art over technical mastery, more sculptors turned to art fabricators to produce their artworks. With fabrication, the artist creates a design and pays a fabricator to produce it. This allows sculptors to create larger and more complex sculptures out of material like cement, metal and plastic, that they would not be able to create by hand. Sculptures can also be made with 3-d printing technology.\n\nIn the United States, the law protecting the copyright over a piece of visual art gives a more restrictive definition of \"visual art\".\n\nA “work of visual art” is —\n(1) a painting, drawing, print or sculpture, existing in a single copy, in a limited edition of 200 copies or fewer that are signed and consecutively numbered by the author, or, in the case of a sculpture, in multiple cast, carved, or fabricated sculptures of 200 or fewer that are consecutively numbered by the author and bear the signature or other identifying mark of the author; or\n(2) a still photographic image produced for exhibition purposes only, existing in a single copy that is signed by the author, or in a limited edition of 200 copies or fewer that are signed and consecutively numbered by the author.\nA work of visual art does not include —\n(A)(i) any poster, map, globe, chart, technical drawing, diagram, model, applied art, motion picture or other audiovisual work, book, magazine, newspaper, periodical, data base, electronic information service, electronic publication, or similar publication;\n  (ii) any merchandising item or advertising, promotional, descriptive, covering, or packaging material or container;\n  (iii) any portion or part of any item described in clause (i) or (ii);\n(B) any work made for hire; or\n(C) any work not subject to copyright protection under this title.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12015326", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12015326", "title": "Yaahting", "text": "Yaahting\n\nYaahting: A Parody was a 1984 parody of the boating magazine genre, most notably \"Yachting\". It was published by Dreadnaught Publishing, a short lived Massachusetts based company. The main publishing staff were: Publisher was Elizabeth Meyer, Publisher; Nathaniel Philbrick, Editor-in-chief; Peter Gow, Executive Editor; William Gotha, Design Director; and Bob Payne, Advertising Coordinator.\n\n\"Yaahting\" consisted of a number of short pieces lampooning typical examples of nautical journalism: self-congratulatory how-to pieces, \"How to Walk Down a Dock,\" \"Restoring the Buzzards Bay 23,\" and \"At Last--A \"Real\" Instant Boat;\" fawning interviews of famous yachtsmen, \"Hog Wild in Wallenda\" and \"Tom Blackballer Looks Ahead;\" and fatuous cruising tales, \"Hearth of Darkness,\" \"Cruising the Persian Gulf,\" and \"A Perfect Cruising World.\" Other features included reportage on \"faux\" race events (\"The Alcatraz 100,\" \"The Flying Squat Nationals,\" \"Going for Broke,\" and \"The \"Inquirer\" Singlehanded TransAt Race\") and features on absurd vessels (\"Soave 48HRS--The Shape of Things to Come,\" \"Dumpster Ahoy!\" and \"Hiva-Oa\"). A number of the articles were written as specific parodies of the style of popular writers of the era; travel writer Patience Wales was targeted as \"Prudence Porpoise,\" and globetrotters Lin and Larry Pardee became Lint and Berry Nurdee.\n\nNotable in the magazine were the spectacular color photographs, many set up by publisher Meyer and the products of such well-known nautical photographers as Alastair Black, Christian Fevrier, Daniel Forster, Benjamin Mendlowitz, Dan Nerney, and Neil Rabinowitz. Artwork included contributions by Jan Adkins, Don Demers, Robert Forget, and Jeremy Ross. Several famous figures in the sailing world of the 1980s served as photographic models, including Tom Blackaller and Robby Doyle.\n\nIncluded are many photographs of disasters and embarrassments, outtakes from the files of maritime photographers featuring dismastings, collisions, and other examples of bad luck and questionable seamanship. Photographers were eager to find a home for these photographs, which were otherwise unpublishable in mainstream periodicals.\n\n\"Yaahting\" also featured nearly a hundred pages of parody advertisements and short articles organized by \"department.\"\n\nRoughly 30,000 copies of \"Yaahting\" were produced and were sold directly by Dreadnaught as well as through bookstores and Nauticalia dealers.\n\nPublisher Elizabeth Meyer went on to restore the J-Boat \"Endeavour\", and she is now a principal in J Class Management of Newport, Rhode Island, and of the International Yacht Restoration School. In 1987 Dreadnaught Publishing also produced \"The Concordia Yawls: The First Fifty Years\".\n\nEditor-in-chief Nathaniel Philbrick is a writer on maritime and historical subjects. His bestselling \"In the Heart of the Sea\" won the National Book Award in 2001. His book \"Mayflower\" (2006) was nominated for a Pulitzer Prize and was also a bestseller. Executive editor Peter Gow teaches and has written on educational, historical, and maritime subjects, including a meditation on the educative power of being on the water, \"The Watery Realm\" (2006). Advertising coordinator Bob Payne is a well-known travel writer.\n\n\"Yaahting\" was an example of the parody genre that flourished in the 1970s and '80s, inspired by other magazine send-ups produced by \"The Harvard Lampoon\" and others.\n"}
{"id": "960455", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=960455", "title": "Yakub (Nation of Islam)", "text": "Yakub (Nation of Islam)\n\nYakub (sometimes spelled Yacub or Yaqub) is a figure in the beliefs of the Nation of Islam (NOI). According to their beliefs, Yakub was a black scientist who lived \"6,600 years ago\" and began the creation of the white race. He is said to have done this through a form of selective breeding referred to as \"grafting\", while living on the island of Patmos. Scientific consensus rejects the historicity of this figure.\n\nThe Nation of Islam theology states that Yakub is the biblical Jacob. All branches of Christianity, Judaism and Islam reject this belief or such characerization of Yakub (Jacob). The story has caused disputes within the NOI during its history. Under its current leader Louis Farrakhan, the NOI continues to assert that the story of Yakub is true, claiming that modern science is consistent with it.\n\nThe story of Yakub was originated in the writings of Wallace Fard Muhammad, the founder of the Nation of Islam, in his doctrinal Q&A pamphlet \"Lost Found Moslem Lesson No. 2\". It was developed by his successor Elijah Muhammad in several writings, most fully in a chapter entitled \"The Making of Devil\" in his book \"Message to the Blackman in America\".\n\nYakub is said to have been born in Mecca at a time when 30% of original black people were \"dissatisfied\". He was a member of the Meccan branch of the Tribe of Shabazz. Yakub acquired the nickname \"big head\", because of his unusually large head and his arrogance. At the age of six, he discovered the law of attraction and repulsion by playing with magnets made of steel. This insight led to a plan to create new people. He \"saw an unlike human being, made to attract others, who could, with the knowledge of tricks and lies, rule the original black man.\" By the age of 18, he had exhausted all knowledge in the universities of Mecca. He then discovered that the \"original black man\" contained both a \"black germ\" and a \"brown germ\". With 59,999 followers, he went to an \"isle in the Aegean Sea called Pelan\", which Muhammad identifies with Patmos. Once there, he established a despotic regime and set about breeding out the black traits, killed all darker babies, and created a brown race after 200 years. Yakub died at the age of 152, but his followers carried on his work. After 600 years of this deliberate eugenics, the white race was created. The brutal conditions of their creation determined the evil nature of the new race: \"by lying to the black mother of the baby, this lie was born into the very nature of the white baby; and, murder for the black people was also born in them—or made by nature a liar and murderer\".\n\nThe new race traveled to Mecca where they caused so much trouble they were exiled to \"West Asia (Europe), and stripped of everything but the language...Once there, they were roped in, to keep them out of Paradise...The soldiers patrolled the border armed with swords, to prevent the devils from crossing.\" For many centuries they lived a barbaric life, surviving naked in caves and eating raw meat, but eventually they were drawn out of the caves by Moses who \"taught them to wear clothes\". Moses tried to civilize them, but eventually gave up and blew up 300 of the most troublesome of them with dynamite. However, they had learned to use \"tricknology\" to usurp power and enslave the black population, bringing the first slaves to America.\nAccording to \"The Autobiography of Malcolm X\", all the races other than the black race were by-products of Yakub's (spelled Yacub in the biography) work, as the \"red, yellow and brown\" races were created during the \"bleaching\" process; however, the \"black race\" included Asian peoples, considered to be shared ancestors of the Moors. \"Whites\" were defined as Europeans. Elijah Muhammad also asserted that some of the new white race \"tried to graft themselves back into the black nation, but they had nothing to go by.\" As a result, they became gorillas. \"A few were lucky enough to make a start, and got as far as what you call the gorilla. In fact, all of the monkey family are from this 2,000 year history of the white race in Europe.\"\n\nAccording to NOI doctrine, Yakub's progeny were destined to rule for 6,000 years before the original black peoples of the world regained dominance, a process that had begun in 1914.\n\nThe name Ya`qub (Yakub) is the Arabic variant of the name of the Biblical Patriarch known as Jacob in English language versions of the Bible, and as \"\" in Biblical Hebrew. Fard Muhammad's Yakub has some parallels to the Biblical Jacob's role as the father of the tribes of Israel. The idea that Jews were an \"artificial race\" created by interbreeding and dependent on \"tricks and lies\" already existed in anti-Semitic theories of the time. The story of Yakub includes Jews as part of a wider artificially created \"white\" race.\n\nThe NOI's claim that Jacob altered the skin color of a specific group of humans through selective breeding is similar to a story in Genesis 30:37–43 where Jacob alters the fur color of the goats and sheep in his uncle Laban's flocks. This story could be the origin of the NOI's story of Yakub. One major difference is that while the NOI says that Yakub employed selective breeding, Jacob used sympathetic magic in the Old Testament.\n\nIn speeches by Malcolm X, Yakub is identified completely with Jacob. Referring to the story of Jacob wrestling with the angel, Malcolm X states that Elijah Muhammad told him that \"Jacob was Yacub, and the angel that Jacob wrestled with wasn't God, it was the government of the day\". This was because Yakub was seeking funds for his expedition to Patmos, \"so when it says Jacob wrestled with an angel, 'angel' is only used as a symbol to hide the one he was really wrestling with\". However, Malcolm X also states that John of Patmos was also Yakub, and that the Book of Revelation refers to his deeds: \"John was Yacub. John was out there getting ready to make a new race, he said, for the word of the Lord\".\n\nErnest Allen argues that \"the Yakub myth may have been created out of whole cloth by Prophet Fard\", but could conceivably have been influenced by a real historical event during the struggle between Muslims and Christians for control of Spain. Muslim leader Abu Yusuf Yaqub al-Mansur defeated the Franks at the Battle of Alarcos (1195). After the battle 40,000 European prisoners of war were taken to Morocco to labor on Yaqub's building projects. They were then set free and \"allowed to form a valley settlement located somewhere between Fez and Marrakesh. On his deathbed Ya'qub lamented his decision to allow these Shibanis (as they came to be called) to form an enclave on Moroccan soil, thereby posing a potential threat to the stability of the Moorish empire.\".\n\nYusuf Nuruddin says that a more direct source was the doctrine of the \"Yacobites\" propounded by Timothy Drew's Moorish Science Temple, to which Fard had probably belonged before he founded the NOI. According to Drew, early pre-Columbian civilizations were founded by a West African Moor \"named Yakub who landed on the Yucatan peninsula\". This derived from the then-current notion that the gigantic heads created by the ancient Olmec peoples of the Yucatán area had \"negroid\" features (see Olmec alternative origin speculations), which had led Leo Wiener to argue that they were migrants from West Africa.\n\nThey [Drew's followers] said that the huge stone heads attested to the fact that the Yakubites evolved into a race of scientific geniuses with large heads (as depicted in the sculptures) and small bodies. This legend of Yakub—a bigheaded scientist—finds its way into the mythology of the Nation of Islam, indicating that the founders of the NOI, W. D. Farrad and Elijah Muhammad, were influenced by the Moorish Science Temple, and were possibly even members.\n\nHarold Bloom in his book \"The American Religion\" argues that Yakub combines elements of the biblical God and the Gnostic concept of the Demiurge, saying that \"Yakub has an irksome memorability as a crude but pungent Gnostic Demiurge\". Nathaniel Deutsch also notes that Fard and Muhammad draw on the concept of the Demiurge, along with traditions of esotericism in Biblical interpretation, absorbing aspects of Biblical tales to the new narrative, such as the swords of the Muslim warriors keeping the \"white devils\" from Paradise, like the flaming sword of the angel protecting the Garden of Eden in Genesis. Edward Curtis calls the story \"a black theodicy: a story grounded in a mythological view of history that explained the fall of black civilization, the Middle Passage from Africa to the Americas, and the practice of Christian religion among slaves and their descendants.\"\n\nSeveral commentators state that the story, by associating blacks with ancient high civilizations and whites with cave-dwelling barbarians and gorillas, both uses and spectacularly reverses the populist and scientific racism of the era which identified Africans as primitive, or closer to apes than whites. This drew on earlier criticisms of white supremacist Nordicism, creating a mythic version of \"attacks on AngloSaxon lineage and behavior that had been voiced by more mainstream black thinkers during the nineteenth century...With these references the [NOI] Muslims replicated the images of European savagery in the Middle Ages that were so pervasive in nineteenth-century black racial thought.\" Deutsch says that \"Muhammad anchored his radical doctrine within the context of an established scriptural tradition\" of Biblical exegesis, which \"was therefore a sophisticated form of resistance to white racism\". In addition, \"the long-standing Western tradition of identifying blackness and darkness with evil is thus dramatically reversed\".\n\nThe doctrine of Yakub was one of the reasons for splits in the Nation of Islam. Malcolm X in his \"Autobiography\" notes that, in his travels in the Middle East, many Muslims reacted with shock upon hearing about the doctrine of Yakub, which, while present in NOI theology, does not appear in mainstream Islam. He rejected the story in his later statements, asserting that anyone of any race who intentionally deprives others of basic human rights is a \"devil\". Warith Deen Mohammed, who took over the Nation of Islam after his father Elijah's death rejected it almost immediately, and tried to re-invent the Nation as a mainstream Sunni Islam movement.\n\nLouis Farrakhan reinstated the original Nation of Islam, and has reasserted his belief in the literal truth of the story of Yakub. In a 1996 interview, Henry Louis Gates, Chairman of Harvard University's Afro-American Studies Department, asked him whether the story was a metaphor or literal. Farrakhan claimed that aspects of the story had been proven accurate by modern genetic science and insisted that \"Personally, I believe that Yakub is not a mythical figure—he is a very real scientist. Not a big-head silly thing, as they would like to say.\" Farrakhan's periodical \"The Final Call\" continues to publish articles arguing that modern science supports the accuracy of Elijah Muhammad's account of Yakub.\n\nThe American author and playwright Amiri Baraka's play \"A Black Mass\" (1965) takes inspiration from the story of Yakub. According to critic Melani McAlister, \"the character of Yakub, now called Jacoub, is introduced as one of three 'Black Magicians' who together symbolize the black origin of all religions.\" McAlister argues that, Baraka turns the Nation's myth into a reinterpretation of the Faust story and a simultaneous meditation on the role and function of art. As with Faust, Jacoub's individualism and egotism are his undoing, but his failings also signal the destruction of a community. Baraka's version of the story also draws on the Frankenstein tale; he conflates the six hundred years of Elijah Muhammad's “history” into a single, terrible moment of the creation of a monster. In Baraka's version the experiment creates a single Frankenstein-like \"white\" monster who kills Jacoub and the other magician-scientists and bites a woman, transforming her in a vampire-like way into a white-devil mate for himself. From this monstrous couple the white race is descended.\n\nAccording to Charise L. Cheney, the doctrine of Yakub has had a significant influence in rap culture, referring to raps by Kam and Grand Puba.\n\nThis pseudoscientific theory of racial formation was embraced by rap nationalists like former Ice Cube protégé Kam in his 1995 song “Keep tha Peace.” A self-proclaimed member of the Nation, Kam presented organizational doctrine as a way to explain the roots of black-on-black crime and gang violence in America's inner cities: “I'm really not knowin' who to blame or fault / for this tension / I mention this gump / Yakub's cavey / the blue-eyed punk / playin' both sides against each other / now that's the real mutha[fuckah].”... In 1990 Grand Puba of Brand Nubian announced that his calling was to bring enlightenment to black people and an end to white domination. ... \"Here comes the god to send the devil right back to his cave.… We're gonna drop the bomb on the Yakub crew.\n\nChuck D of Public Enemy also refers to the story in his song \"Party for Your Right to Fight\", referring to the Yakub story by attributing the deaths of African American radicals to the “grafted devils” conspiring against the “Black Asiatic Man.”.\n\nMethod Man of the Wu-Tang Clan promotes the story of Yakub in the Ol' Dirty Bastard's song \"Raw Hide,\" saying: \"A mystery god that's the work of Yacub / The Holy Ghost got you scared to death kid boo!\". In the Wu-Tang Clan's song \"Gravel Pit\", at the end of it, can be heard a vocal sample from a 1977 movie \"Short Eyes\" which says about Yakub: \"Yakub, maker and creator of the devil. Swine merchant... your time is near at hand. Fuck with me and your time will be now. Your presence here affects the mind of my people like a fever. You, Yakub, are the bearer of nine thousand nine hundred and ninety nine diseases, evil, corrupt, porkchop-eatin' brain!\".\n\nWu-Tang member Ghostface Killah also references the story of Yakub in his song \"One\" from his album Supreme Clientele. He raps: \"A-yo, the Devil planted fear inside the black babies.\" He concludes the verse with: \"Dead meat placed on the shelves, we eat cold cuts / Fast from the hog y'all and grow up,\" advocating the NOI's dietary practice of avoiding pork.\n\nNas raps \"You devils will run back into the caves you came from\" in his song \"Message To The Feds, Sincerely, We The People\" from his album Street's Disciple.\n\nOn a freestyle to Drake's song \"We Made It\", Jay Electronica says \"All these devils, I got to strike some\" and Jay Z says \"I'm ready to chase the Yakub back into caves\".\n\n"}
{"id": "32808939", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32808939", "title": "Yannis Stavrakakis", "text": "Yannis Stavrakakis\n\nYannis Stavrakakis (; born 1970) is a Greek–British political theorist. A member of the Essex School of discourse analysis, he is mainly known for his explorations of the importance of psychoanalytic theory (Freud and Lacan) for contemporary political and cultural analysis.\n\nStavrakakis was born in Sheffield, UK. He studied political science at Panteion University (Athens) and discourse analysis at Essex University. He received his MA and PhD degrees from the ‘Ideology and Discourse Analysis’ programme at the University of Essex. His doctoral thesis, completed under the supervision of Ernesto Laclau, was entitled ‘New Directions in the Theory of Ideology and the Case of Green Ideology’.\n\nFrom 1998 onwards he has worked at the Universities of Essex and Nottingham and at the Postgraduate Programme of the Department of Political Science and History of Panteion University. In 2006 he was appointed Associate Professor at the School of Political Sciences of the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki. He has since been promoted to Professor of Political Discourse Analysis and currently serves as deputy Head of School.\n\nStavrakakis has also been recently elected (2012) in the executive board of the Hellenic Political Science Association, where he now serves as Vice-President. Within the framework of the Association, he has co-founded a Research Network dedicated to the analysis of political discourse.\n\nHis research interests include contemporary political theory (with emphasis on psychoanalytic and post-structuralist approaches), the analysis of ideology and political discourse in societies of late modernity (with emphasis on the study of political ecology, populism and post-democracy) and the political dimensions of artistic practices and theater. His recent work has focused on the political and psychosocial implications of what he calls \"debt societies\" of Southern Europe (especially Greece) and on the emerging ideological cleavage between populist and anti-populist discourses within this context. During the 2014-5 period he has served as Principal Investigator of the POPULISMUS research project, co-funded by the European Union. The research focus of the project was on the relationship between populist discourse and democracy and it involved a variety of research and dissemination activities as well as the creation of an international Observatory of populist discourse.\n\nHe has authored and co-edited many books in English and Greek and has published numerous articles in journals such as: \"Journal of Political Ideologies\"; \"Journal for Lacanian Studies\"; \"Psychoanalysis, Culture and Society\"; \"Philosophy and Social Criticism\"; \"Constellations\"; \"South European Society and Politics\"; \"Journal of Modern Greek Studies\"; \"Theory, Culture and Society\"; \"Third Text\"; \"Organization Studies\"; \"Planning Theory\". Many of his publications have been translated to a variety of other languages including Spanish, German, Japanese, Korean, Turkish, Russian, Bulgarian, etc. He is contributing editor of the journal \"Psychoanalysis, Culture and Society\" (Palgrave) and member of the editorial boards of \"Subjectivity\" (Palgrave), \"Journal for Lacanian Studies\" and \"Synchrona Themata\".\n\n\n"}
