{"id": "20688538", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20688538", "title": "Afrighids", "text": "Afrighids\n\nThe Afrighids (from 305 to 995 AD) () were a native Chorasmian Iranian dynasty who ruled over the ancient kingdom of Chorasmia until 995 AD. Over time, they were under the suzerainty of the Sassanid Empire, the Hephthalite Empire, the Göktürk Khaganate, the Umayyad Caliphate and the Samanid Empire.\n\nAl-Biruni, the native Chorasmian scholar, mentions twenty-two members of the Afrighid dynasty for a total span of 690 years with an average rule of 31 years for each ruler. According to him, the Afrighids ruled from 305 AD, through the Arab conquests under Qotayba b. Moslem in 93/712, and up to their overthrow in 385/995 by the rising rival family of Ma'munids. The main source on the Afrighids prior to Islam is also Al-Biruni. Part of the reason for the gap in information about this dynasty is mentioned by Al-Biruni.\n\nAl-Biruni states:\nIt has been suggested that 'Afrigh' is the Arabicized of 'Abriz' in Persian (آبریز where water flows, a reference to the geography of Khwarazm and its abundant water). However, Dr. Parviz Azkai, in his annotations on Al-Biruni's \"Chronology of Ancient Nations\", explains that this is a popular etymology. Azkai explains that Afrigh was originally Ap-Air-ig meaning \"from the Aryan descent\": \"ap\" or \"af\" is the same in 'afrashtan' (Persian: افراشتن) to raise; \"air\" is the root meaning Aryan as seen in Iraj, and Eran/Iran (land of Aryan); and \"-ig\" is the suffix of relation in Iranian languages and cognate to '-ic' in English or '-ique' in French.\n\nThe ancient Iranian kingdom of Khwarazm had been ruled until 995 by the old established line of Afrighids of Kath. Khwarazm, or the classical Chorasmia, was the well irrigated and rich agricultural region of lower Oxus. Surrounded by all sides by steppe land and desert, it was geographically isolated from other areas of civilization. This isolation allowed it to maintain a separate distinctive Iranian language and culture. Khwarazm was one of the early areas of Iranian civilization, and the local Chorasmian historian, Al-Biruni traces civilization there beyond the first millennium BC. Before the 8th century, there had only been few ineffectual Arab raids on the fringes of Chorasmia from the directions of Khorasan and Transoxania. But in 712 AD, Qutayba ibn Muslim was able to intervene in a civil war between the Afrighid Shah and his brother Khorrazad. Two Arab invasions lead to much destruction as Al-Biruni notes. Once the Arabs withdrew from their raid, the Shahs recovered power in Chorasmia and they continued to adhere to their ancestral faith, which according to Al-Biruni was Zoroastrianism. The local shahs continued to ally with local Iranian princes, Soghdian merchants and even Turks and Chinese in order to resist the Arabs.\n\nIt thus came vaguely under Muslim suzerainty, but it was not until the end of the 8th century or the beginning of the 9th century that an Afrighid was first converted to Islam appearing with the popular convert’s name of ‘Abdallah (slave of God). In the course of the 10th century, the local family of the Ma'munids who were based in Gurganj, on the left bank of the Oxus grew in economic and political importance due to trade caravans. In 995, they violently overthrew the Afrighids of Kath and themselves assumed the traditional title of the Khwarazm Shah. Briefly, the area was under Samanid suzerainty, before it passed to Mahmud of Ghazna. From then on, Turco-Mongolian invasions and long rule by Turco-Mongol dynasties supplanted the Iranian character of the region although the title of Khwarizm Shah was maintained well up to the 15th century.\n\nIt is generally agreed that the Afrighids were Zoroastrians until the reign of Abdallah ibn Torkasbatha during the 9th century. However, their Zoroastrian beliefs differed from those in Iran and were a mix between a local form of Khwarazmian Zoroastrianism and paganism. The Khwarazmians, like their Sogdian relatives, also made rituals and sacrifices dedicated to the Iranian mythological hero Siyavash whom they appeared to worship, according to Tolstov, with regards to vegetation.\n\nOnly consonants of the pre-Islamic names are known with long vowels, since in Arabic script, the short vowels are not written and diacritic signs are used to clarify when required. After the conversion of 'Abdallah, all the names except possibly 'Eraq are Arabic and their pronunciation is known. Unfortunately, the manuscripts that have also come down have also suffered some corruption due to scribal errors, since the Chorasmian names were incomprehensible for most non-natives. Al-Biruni himself utilizes the extra letters of Chorasmian which were not used in Arabic writings.\n\nMore is known about the dynasty in the Islamic era after the beginning of the 8th century and their conversion to Islam.\n\nName of the rulers given by the native Chorasmian speaker Al-Biruni, and modern scholars.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8070996", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8070996", "title": "Aga Khan Historic Cities Programme", "text": "Aga Khan Historic Cities Programme\n\nThe Historic Cities Programme (HCP) of the Aga Khan Trust for Culture (AKTC)] promotes the conservation and re-use of buildings and public spaces in historic cities of the Muslim World. HCP undertakes the restoration and rehabilitation of historic structures and public spaces in ways that can spur social, economic and cultural development. Individual projects go beyond technical restoration to address the questions of the social and environmental context, adaptive reuse, institutional sustainability and training. In several countries, local Aga Khan Cultural Service companies have been formed to implement projects under the supervision of the HCSP headquarters in Geneva.\n\nThe HCP works closely with all project stakeholders, including the community. The Programme is able to provide planning assistance to government and local conservation bodies. It provides technical expertise and can help to secure funding and resources by defining opportunities and approaches, preparing feasibility studies, and shaping proposals for submission to local investors and international agencies.\n\nIt also participates in urban conservation and development efforts that focus on building clusters, public spaces between and around buildings, a district, or a historic town. These projects aim to restore and maintain the socioeconomic and cultural fabric of the designated area. The Programme also engages in restoring specific historic sites and buildings that include elements of urban landscape or single structures, for which appropriate new functions are developed to meet the social and economic needs of the respective communities.\n\nThe Programme is concerned with the long-term viability of its conservation projects and does support associated cultural initiatives in this regard. All enabling development factors – community support, innovative institutional structures, and commercial potential – are harnessed, whenever possible, to make conservation sustainable.\n\nHCP plans and executes projects with funding from the Aga Khan Trust for Culture and other donors. Institutions, such as the Getty Grant Program, World Monuments Fund, the Ford Foundation, the Swiss, Swedish and Norwegian bilateral aid organisations, and the World Bank have sponsored or co-funded HCSP activities. HCSP establishes local service companies as partners in implementation and prepares them for autonomous operation as self-sustaining community organisations.\n\nThe Historic Cities Programme has been involved in nearly twenty distinct revitalisation projects in Afghanistan, the Northern Areas of Pakistan, Zanzibar, Samarkand, Cairo, Mostar (Bosnia), Mali and Syria. In all project locations, community participation, training of local professionals and local institution-building are essential components.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1816253", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1816253", "title": "Altan Telgey", "text": "Altan Telgey\n\nAltan Telgey is a Mongol earth goddess. Her relationship to Etugen is unclear. In Mongolian, Delkhey (Delkhi) literally means earth. In modern Mongolian songs, the term Altan Delkhi is commonly mentioned.\n"}
{"id": "19851592", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19851592", "title": "Argyra (mythology)", "text": "Argyra (mythology)\n\nIn Greek mythology, Argyra (; Ancient Greek: Ἀργυρᾶ) was one of the Naiads, a nymph who resided in a well. There was a city in ancient Achaea, also named Argyra, that was the site of a spring. According to legend, the nymph Argyra was in love with a shepherd named Selemnus whom she visited frequently. But when he aged and his youthful beauty vanished, she forsook him. When the boy died of grief, the goddess Aphrodite out of pity changed him into a river. There was a popular belief in Achaia that a forsaken lover who bathes in this river will forget their pain.\n"}
{"id": "27368072", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27368072", "title": "Bahá'í Faith in Colombia", "text": "Bahá'í Faith in Colombia\n\nThe Bahá'í Faith in Colombia begins with references to the country in Bahá'í literature as early as 1916, with Bahá'ís visiting as early as 1927. The first Colombian joined the religion in 1929 and the first Bahá'í Local Spiritual Assembly was elected in Bogotá in 1944 with the beginning of the arrival of coordinated pioneers from the United States and achieved an independent National Spiritual Assembly in 1961. By 1963 there were eleven local assemblies. In the 1980s institutions were developed in Colombia that have influenced activities inside and independent of the religion in other countries: FUNDAEC and the Ruhi Institute. The Association of Religion Data Archives (relying mostly on the World Christian Encyclopedia) estimated some 70,000 Bahá'ís (0.2% of the population) in 2005, and about the same in 2010.\n\n`Abdu'l-Bahá, the son of the founder of the religion, wrote a series of letters, or tablets, to the followers of the religion in the United States in 1916-1917; these letters were compiled together in the book titled Tablets of the Divine Plan. The sixth of the tablets was the first to mention Latin American regions and was written on April 8, 1916, but was delayed in being presented in the United States until 1919 — after the end of World War I and the Spanish flu. The sixth tablet was translated and presented by Mirza Ahmad Sohrab on April 4, 1919, and published in Star of the West magazine on December 12, 1919.\n\n\"His Holiness Christ says: Travel ye to the East and to the West of the world and summon the people to the Kingdom of God. ... the republic of Mexico...to be familiar with the Spanish language...Guatemala, Honduras, Salvador, Nicaragua, Costa Rica, Panama and the seventh country Belize...Attach great importance to the indigenous population of America...Likewise the islands of ...Cuba, Haiti, Puerto Rico, Jamaica, ... Bahama Islands, even the small Watling Island...Haiti and Santo Domingo...the islands of Bermuda... the republics of the continent of South America—Colombia, Ecuador, Peru, Brazil, The Guianas, Bolivia, Chile, Argentina, Uruguay, Paraguay, Venezuela; also the islands to the north, east and west of South America, such as Falkland Islands, the Galapagòs, Juan Fernandez, Tobago and Trinidad...\"\n\nFollowing the release of these tablets and then `Abdu'l-Bahá's death in 1921, a few Bahá'ís began moving to or at least visiting Latin America. In 1927 Leonora Armstrong was the first Bahá'í to visit and give lectures about the religion in Colombia as part of her plan to compliment and complete Martha Root's unfulfilled intention of visiting all the Latin American countries for the purpose of presenting the religion to an audience. Aura Sanchez of Bogotá is credited as the first Colombian Bahá'í. She joined the religion in 1929 after hearing of the religion from an American who was in that country.\n\nShoghi Effendi, who was named `Abdu'l-Bahá's successor, wrote a cable on May 1, 1936 to the Bahá'í Annual Convention of the United States and Canada, and asked for the systematic implementation of `Abdu'l-Bahá's vision to begin. In his cable he wrote:\n\n\"Appeal to assembled delegates ponder historic appeal voiced by 'Abdu'l-Bahá in \"Tablets of the Divine Plan\". Urge earnest deliberation with incoming National Assembly to insure its complete fulfillment. First century of Bahá'í Era drawing to a close. Humanity entering outer fringes most perilous stage its existence. Opportunities of present hour unimaginably precious. Would to God every State within American Republic and every Republic in American continent might ere termination of this glorious century embrace the light of the Faith of Bahá'u'lláh and establish structural basis of His World Order.\"\n\nFollowing the May 1st cable, another cable from Shoghi Effendi came on May 19 calling for permanent pioneers to be established in all the countries of Latin America. The Bahá'í National Spiritual Assembly of the United States and Canada was appointed the Inter-America Committee to take charge of the preparations. During the 1937 Bahá'í North American Convention, Shoghi Effendi cabled advising the convention to prolong their deliberations to permit the delegates and the National Assembly to consult on a plan that would enable Bahá'ís to go to Latin America as well as to include the completion of the outer structure of the Bahá'í House of Worship in Wilmette, Illinois. In 1937 the \"First Seven Year Plan\" (1937–44), which was an international plan designed by Shoghi Effendi, gave the American Bahá'ís the goal of establishing the Bahá'í Faith in every country in Latin America. With the spread of American Bahá'ís in Latin American, Bahá'í communities and Local Spiritual Assemblies began to form in 1938 across Latin America.\n\nThe permanent Colombian Bahá'í community dates from the arrival of Gerard Sluter in 1940. The next pioneer to arrive was Ruth Shoock who arrived in November–December 1942. followed closely by Winifred Louise Baker in later January 1943. Carlos Nieto is credited with being the first convert - he was from Barranquilla.\n\nDorothy Beecher Baker, later a Hand of the Cause, had a daughter, Winifred Louise Baker, who pioneered to Colombia in January 1943. Later in 1943 Dorothy spent a month in Colombia visiting the Bahá'ís and her daughter. By January 1944 there were six Colombian converts to the religion and they helped elect the first Bahá'í Local Spiritual Assembly which was in Bogotá that January. In 1943 during the annual Bahá'í convention of the United States, Shoghi Effendi announced a Northern-and Southern- international convention which would include representatives from each state and province from the United States and Canada and each republic of Latin America. This 1944 centenary of the religion's All-America Convention's Colombian delegate was Josephina Rodriquez. By September there were 25 Bahá'ís in Bogotá with about an equal number studying the religion actively. By June 1945 a campaign of letter exchanges had raised an assembly in Mogotes and there were converts among people at a leper colony at Contratacion and individuals in Cartagena and Medellín and interested responses from several other cities. Around October 1946 Gayle Woolson took an extended trip through several towns of Colombia including Cali, Medellín, Cartagena and Barranquilla as well as some towns in Ecuador.\n\nAs 1947 opened assemblies were added in Cali, Medellín, Cartagena and Contratacion. Gayle Woolson was again touring several cities of Colombia - Medellín, Cartagena, Barranquilla, Bucaramanga and Mogotes. The members of the Medellín assembly were Francisco Onego R., Bernarda Yepes, Margarita Caicedo, Hernando Jaramillo A., William Gomez M., Dario Echavarria, John Carder, Augusto Mora, Jose Ramos. By July 1947 a regional committee for South America Central American was organizing developments across the continent. Retrospectively a stated purpose for the committee was to facilitate a shift in the balance of roles from North American guidance and Latin cooperation to Latin guidance and North American cooperation. The process was well underway by 1950 and was to be enforced about 1953. Meanwhile, a regional committee oversaw Colombian activities headed by Dr. Saul Hernández out of Bogotá and Woolson's travels were covered by newspaper and radio press.\n\nThe second South American Bahá'í Congress was celebrated in Santiago, Chile, in January, 1948. Though Colombia had had more new assemblies form, it was too remote for general logistics. Colombia focused its efforts on welcoming Bahá'ís who attended the Pan-American Conference instead. In October 1949 Colombia hosted a conference for Colombian, Ecuadoran and Venezuelan Bahá'ís on the progress of the religion in their areas; however, all the participants save two teachers came from the Colombian cities of Bogotá, Barranquilla, Cali and Medellín. Then came the prospect of decision making coming from the Latino communities and North Americans supporting their choices. Assemblies across South America failed to reform on their own but several were able to be \"activated\" during 1950–1. Pioneers listed for Colombia in 1950 were Gayle Woolson, Elise Schreiber, and Dorothy Campbell. In 1950, the South American Bahá'ís formed a regional Spiritual Assembly for South America whose first members were Edmund Miessler of Brazil, Margot Worley of Brazil, Eve Nicklin of Peru, Gayle Woolson of Colombia, Esteban Canales of Paraguay, Mercedes Sanchez of Peru, Dr. Alexander Reid of Chile, Rangvald Taetz of Uruguay, and Manuel Vera of Peru. Of the 25 delegates for the 1951 election, 4 were from Colombia.\nFrom 1951 youth groups were being organized for Bahá'ís in Barranquilla and Cali. In November 1953 pioneers listed for Colombia were Meredith W. Smith and Elton M. Smith, In 1954 Gayle Woolson and in 1955 Katherine McLaughlin was touring Colombia and nearby countries. Mr. and Mrs. Donald Barrett arrived in Bogota, Colombia, in January, 1955. In 1956 Woolson went on pilgrimage and toured sharing her experience and the national center of Colombia was dedicated.\n\nThe next restructuring of the regional assembly came in 1957 when it was split into two - basically northern/eastern South America with the Republics of Brazil, Peru, Colombia, Ecuador, and Venezuela, in Lima, Peru and one of the western/southern South America with the Republics of Argentina, Chile, Uruguay, Paraguay, and Bolivia in Buenos Aires, Argentina. The convention for northern/eastern Bahá'ís was witnessed by Horace Holley as the representative of Shoghi Effendi. A small book on the Buddha was produced in 1957 by the national assembly. The Colombian Bahá'í community held its first summer school during a national conference in Medelin in January 1958. In 1960 the first assemblies were elected at Manizales, Pereira, and Cartagena. The Bahá'ís of Cali hosted the 4th convention of the regional assembly. In 1960 a three-day conference of the \"World Association of World Federalists\" was held in Germany and was attended by Colombian delegates and Bahá'ís associated with the Bahá'í International Community. A Colombian delegate responded positively to the suggestion of a relationship between spirituality and the World Federalist Movement.\n\nThere were 19 delegates to the convention to elect the first National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá'ís of Colombia in 1961. The election was witnessed by Hand of the Cause Shu'á'u'lláh 'Alá'i who made a public address to at the Museum of Colonial Art before the convention. Its first members were: Charles Hornby, A.K. Kalantar, Luis Montenegro, Ervin L. Thomas, Leonor Porras, Jamshid Meghnot, Marjorie Weddell, Habib Rezvani, and Gloria de Fritzsche. Events and the election were covered by Revista Semana of the May 15, 1961 issue in a full page article. In short order the national assembly began publishing its \"Noticias Bahá'is de Colombia\" as its official publication. The March–April 1961 issue of \"Cronicos-Israel y America Latina\", published in Colombia, carried an article on the religion. It was also in 1961 that the religion was brought to the region of the Guajira department. In 1962 four new assemblies were elected -one of them all-Indian and the national assembly was legally incorporated as well.\n\nIn 1963 the members of the national assemblies of the world were the delegates to elect the first Universal House of Justice. The Colombian members of the national assembly that year were: Gloria de Fritzsche, Charles Homby, Louis Montenegro, Leonor Porras, Habib Rezvani, Ellen Sims, Ervin Thomas, Wilma Thomas, Stewart M. Waddell; all of whom were able to attend the international connvention together. In 1963 there were Local Spiritual Assemblies in: Barranquilla, Bogotá, Bucaramanga, Cali, Cartagena, one for the region of Southeast Guajira, Leticia (Amazonas), Manizales, Medellín, Pereira, and Riohacha with smaller groups of Bahá'ís in Dibulla and Ibagué, and isolated Bahá'ís in Maicao and Palmira and among it were members of the Wayuu in the La Guajira Department.\n\nThe Bahá'ís of Colombia were given 10 goals for the \"Nine Year Plan\" designated by the Universal House of Justice which started in 1964 and Colombia was singled out as having succeeded in its goals so early that several goals were raised in response. The goals included developing school programs. The 1964 summer school was held in November and covered subjects of newly translated The Dawn-Breakers and \"The Thief in the Night\", a book by Hand of the Cause William Sears and variousBahá'í teachings and administration. There was also a separate convention/camp for children. A new organizational unit, the \"Institute\" or \"Training Institute\", was another goal and Colombia's first one began to organize and operate in 1965 as part of initiatives focused on the Indian population in the La Guajira region. There were also several series of progressive institute courses used among the Bahá'ís. A regional conference on the progress of the religion in the region was called by the Hands of the Cause in the western hemisphere in the summer of 1965 at the Bogotá national center along with representatives of the national assembly of Ecuador, Colombia and of the communities of Bogota, Barranquilla, Bucaramanga, Cali, Manizalez, Pereira, Ibagué, and Ciénaga de Oro. By winter 1965 there were many Baha'is among both the Colombian and Venezuelan Guajiros, about 1,000 on the Colombian side and 1,500 on the Venezuelan side. Another stated goal was in the realm of international cooperation - the newly developing Indian Institute of Riohacha was shared with the Venezuelans during the first Guajiro Teacher Training Institute held at Riohacha. Among the participants in this first training were: Rosalba Pimienta, Tiana Arpushana, Tomas Pimienta, Juan Artiz Pimienta, Martha Duarte Arpushana, Maria Teresa Duarte Arpushana, Carmen Pimienta Arpushana, and Martha Epiaya all of Colombia and Rogelio Hernández, José Martin Sempron, Cecilia del Carmen Iguaran, and Maria Cecilía González all of Venezuela. The next institute was held in January 1966 at which the dedication of the building was set and the building, called the \"Villa Rahmat\", as an Institute was completed by August. After constructing the Guajiro Teaching Institute the community united in sending financial aid to Kenya, thus fulfilling that goal. Further to supporting international cooperation among Bahá'í communities the three national assemblies of Brazil, Colombia and Peru joined forces in 1965-66 and sent material resources and traveling teachers for the development of the religion in the elevated Amazon area and Colombia in particular sent pioneers beyond its national borders. First contact with the Archipelago of San Andrés, Providencia and Santa Catalina for the Bahá'ís came in 1966 when Helen Hornby and her husband pioneered there. By 1967 there was an election of a local assembly in San Andrés, with a community of nearly one hundred members and sixty-four on Providencia and across Colombia the goal of Bahá'ís living in 100 localities was more than doubled and one locality has been established in each of (then) sixteen departments and other civic divisions. By 1967 eight local assemblies were formed among the Motilones.\nIn late 1967 into 1968 Vicente Montezuma, a Panamanian Guaymí who had previously served in the National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá'ís of Panama, pioneered to the rural areas of Colombia and promulgated the religion especially among the Choco speaking Indians. Almost overlapping his trip Hand of the Cause Ruhiyyih Khanum traveled through Venezuela and Colombia from February 1968. On the evening of February 29 she arrived at the Villa Rahmat, the Guajiro Indian Institute. The next evening she showed slides of her trips to Panama, Bolivia, and Argentina Indian to about thirty Riohacha adult and children Bahá'ís. Soon she traveled with local Bahá'ís to the sea salt harvest sands at Manaure. From there the group went to the homeland of the Yukpa(Yuko) in the Cesar Department where she camped in a Plaintain grove. There she promulgated the religion indirectly, by being known as a Bahá'í who was interested in their craft work even among avowed Bahá'ís. From there she and her group ascended into a more remote region and a machete wounded foot of a Bahá'í was tended. Later she offered that though she was raised largely in \"city life\" she had served an example of travel in the remote regions. From there she visited the Bahá'ís in Barranquilla and Bogotá where she also gave talks. Upon reaching Bogotá several newspapers covered her work - El Espectador, carried a featured story \"El Bahá'í Busca la Unidad Humana\" by Margarita Vidal Garcia. While in the area she met Leonora Armstrong. Meanwhile, in May one of the first Bahá'ís in San Andrés insisted on a Bahá'í funeral which in turn was covered by local radio and attended by some 500 people including civic and religious leaders and resulted in a large venue for the observance of the Bahá'í Holy Day, the Declaration of the Báb.\n\nCross border activity in La Guajira continued in 1969 with Venezuelan Guajiro Bahá'ís traveling in Colombia and Colombian Guajiro Bahá'ís attending activities in Venezuela. At the 1969 national convention a number of Yukon/Yukpa delegates attended. The October summer school was held in Cali. And a training institute was established in the Chocó region.\n\nIn May 1970 an all-Guajiro Bahá'í conference brought together some 200 Bahá'ís from the region for talks and lessons offered in Spanish and Guajira languages including a history of the religion in the region including noting 110 local assemblies being elected that year: 57 in Colombia: 53 in Venezuela, as well as the dedication of a local Bahá'í House of Worship. In April Hand of the Cause Enoch Olinga took a trip through Colombia and in July a continental conference of Bahá'ís was held in Bolivia at which several delegates from Colombia attended while others from Colombia worked in Brazil. In September new pioneer Bahá'ís reached Santa Lucía, Atlántico - by 1971 there were over 400 Bahá'ís including the mayor, three classes begun, a regional convention on the progress of the religion, and an institute were operating. In 1970 about fifteen people accounted as the active core of the community in Cali. They began what would turn into - in about two decades - the Ruhi Institute (see below.)\n\nAn informal summary of the community in 1971 showed about 1000 Bahá'ís and expectations of doubling the number of assemblies among the Guajiro Bahá'ís. In 1972 Guajiro Bahá'ís attended the dedication of the Panamanian Bahá'í House of Worship and the Bahá'í population of Santa Lucía was reported at 1200 and had reached neighboring villages during a follow-up conference in at Manaure. In 1973 Luis Montenegro, former long term member of the National Assembly of Colombia died while climbing the mountains of the Yukpa(Yuko), or Motilon, Indians. At the close of the Nine Year Plan changes had indeed been wrought in Colombia.\n\nIn 1974 a conference was held in Cali with Bahá'ís from Venezuela, Ecuador, Colombia attending and now appointed Continental Counselor Leonora Armstrong attended. A national training institute was dedicated. The first of the Paez people joined the religion in 1974 due to the service of a Panamanian Bahá'í traveling in Colombia. In 1975 Ruhiyyih Khanum returned to Colombia but this time it was on the side of the tropical forest during the Green Light Expedition recording her travel up the Amazon river and through other rivers and adjoining lands. She entered Leticia, where she was interviewed by reporters and met with a Ticuna speaking chief and then citizens of the village. By 1978 a Bahá'í center was raised in Leticia. In 1976 the first citizen of Archipiélago de San Bernardo joined the religion in 1976. Print materials were being produced in Colombia and circulated there and in Ecuador. The religion was introduced to Sogamoso. The fifth All-Guajira Conference was held in July in Venezuela. In 1977 the Brazil, Colombia and Peru Bahá'í communities formed a committee to coordinate efforts in the border regions deep in the Amazon. A 1978 institute covered the relationship between the elected and appointed aspects of Bahá'í administration for some 30 Bahá'ís in Riohacha. In 1980 the Bahá'í International Community reported on projects Bahá'ís communities had carried out for the International Year of the Child - the national assembly of Colombia published a compilation \"Educacion Espiritual de los Niños\" and the Amatu'l-Baha Ruhiyyih Khanum International Institute of the Amazon Region was dedicated February in Leticia. In April on the west side of Colombia and the Bahá'ís of Pasto hosted the first Colombian-Ecuadorian Bahá'í \"Frontier Conference\" on the promulgation of the religion in the area with about 120 participants. Under the cooperation of the two national assemblies a commission was appointed to coordinate efforts in the area. Among the initiatives reviewed was the Ecuadorian \"Bahá'í Radio\" station who's broadcast covers some of Ecuador and Colombia. In addition to more Bahá'ís the goal's included the responsibility for children's classes, women's activities, and assembly development programs and was centered from the Puerta Tejada Ruhi Institute and graduation was the act of explaining each completed course satisfactorily to at least five other Bahá'ís. Attendees at the conference also reviewed the events surrounding the death of Enoch Olinga, his wife, and three of their children, as well as the life of service of Rahmatu'lláh Muhájir who had died in Ecuador the year before.\n\nIn 1982 some 1,300 Baha'is from 42 countries gathered August in Quito, the second of five such gatherings. 13 Continental Counsellors, representatives of 24 of the 29 National Spiritual Assemblies in Latin America and the Caribbean, and members of 21 Indian tribes from Bolivia, Brazil, Canada, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, Panama, Peru, United States and Venezuela attended. The Conferences were dedicated to the memory of Bahiyyih Khánum.\n\nThe idea for a \"Trail of Light\" occurred during preparations for the first Bahá'í Native Council (see Bahá'í Faith and Native Americans) in 1978. Another inspiration for the Trail of Light was the concept of promulgating the religion among the indigenous peoples in the Pacific Rim that was described by the Hand of the Cause Rahmátu'llah Muhájir in 1978. The Trail of Light, also known as \"Camino del Sol\", was defined as a process whereby native Bahá'ís engaged with diverse native peoples about a number of issues including promulgating their religion as well as organizing councils for the people and encouraged discovery of mutual cultural links across the native peoples. The first \"Trail of Light\" traveling trip by 22 members of the religion occurred spontaneously immediately after the council. In 1985 the Trail of Light project began its work in Colombia. Among the participants were two youth from the Guaymi tribe in Panama; six members from the Guajiros, the Colombo-Venezuelan tribe, and two youth from the Paez, a tribe in southern Colombia. They first traveled to the Guajira region and re-affirmed the religion among the Bahá'ís there and the group performed dances which inspired the Guajiros to offer their own dance, the Chichamaya, which had been illegal. The group was invited to the local high school where the Guaymis shared the story of the impact of the religion among their people (see Bahá'í Faith in Panama.) The group was then invited to the elementary school. From Guajira the group headed to Valledupar and then on to the homeland of the Arhuaco tribe in the Sierra Nevada de Santa Marta. There the group met with the leadership, the Mamos, or elders of the community for permission to present the message they had come to give. Various of the group presented to the Mamos including the Guaymi and their interpretation of their own prophecies. An elder shared that the Arhuaco had a similar prophecy. The Trail of Light group was allowed to make their presentations and exchanges of dances and talks followed. From there the group traveled to see the Yukpa(Yuko) tribe. With the Yuko the group was able to hold a unity feast and shared dances and stayed for three days before heading home.\n\nSince its inception the religion has had involvement in socio-economic development beginning by giving greater freedom to women, promulgating the promotion of female education as a priority concern, and that involvement was given practical expression by creating schools, agricultural coops, and clinics. Since the 1970s the Colombian Bahá'ís have developed a pair of important institutions - FUNDAEC, and the Ruhi Institute.\n\nAgainst a backdrop of serious social disruption and violence across Colombia Bahá'ís turned to service to the people living in the countryside. In 1974 FUNDAEC was founded by group of professors at the University of Valle. According to Gustav Correa, director of FUNDAEC, it was originally inspired by a quotation from Bahá'u'lláh - \"Baha'u'llah talks about man as 'a mine rich in gems of inestimable value.' He says that 'education can, alone, cause it to reveal its treasures, and enable mankind to benefit therefrom'. In 1983 Gustavo Correa presented on the FUNDAEC project to Association for Bahá'í Studies 8th annual Conference. In 1985 an advisor of a development committee assisting the Anís Zunúzí Bahá'í School visited the FUNDAEC project in Cali to look for insights in development work.\n\nOne of the authors was Farzam Arbab and president of FUNDAEC from 1974 to 1988, would also serve in several capacities for the religion including being a member of the National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá'ís of Colombia, a Continental Counsellor, appointed to the International Teaching Centre and eventually elected to the Universal House of Justice in 1993.\n\nFUNDAEC has instituted a number of development projects: the \"Centro Universitario de Bienestar Rural\", the \"Tutorial Learning System\" or \"SAT\" (the Spanish acronym for \"Sistema de Aprendizaje Tutorial\") and a micro-finance Project. The SAT was particularly successful with cutting the process of urbanization, increases in democratic behavior and aspects of gender equality, extra curricular activities in communities, stopping migratory movement of populations, and established public-private cooperation in Colombia. By 2002 the SAT system was in use in Honduras, Guatemala, Ecuador, Venezuela, Panama, Costa Rica, Brazil, Colombia and the first phases of the implementation of the program have started in Zambia. Parallel to SAT, FUNDAEC began a micro-finance initiative as well.\n\nIn Colombia the Ruhi Institute, a Bahá'í study circle, began as an initiative of the community with a commitment starting in 1970. In 1980 a Ruhi Institute was operating in the border area where Ecuador and Colombia meet. About 1980 one of the Auxiliary Board members in Colombia entered into a process of consultation with several rural communities around the town of Puerto Tejada in order to help them identify steps. they could take to improve their own social conditions. An early aim was to establish nurseries and kindergartens. In 1983 it published its first course \"Principles and Beliefs, Course 1: Life and Death\". The courses developed as a \"Core Activities Initiative\". In 1983 there was discussion of using the Ruhi Institute process in the Dominican Republic and in Puerto Rico. In 1984 Bahá'í Counsellors and Auxiliary Board members from Colombia, the Dominican Republic, Panama, Puerto Rico and Venezuela met at the Ruhi Institute in Puerto Tejada and discussed the Ruhi Institute courses and the Ruhi courses were used in the Central African Republic. Counsellors and representatives of 17 National Spiritual Assemblies in the Caribbean basin and Latin America gathered in St. Lucia to introduce and study materials prepared at the Ruhi Institute in Colombia and Honduran Bahá'ís attended the Cali Ruhi Institute with the intention of returning to Honduras as trainers in the Ruhi methods. In 1987 the institute wrote its first course book on the education of children. In 1988 the national assembly decided to seek legal recognition for the Ruhi Institute by incorporating it as an organization with its own Board of Directors appointed by the assembly. It dedicates its efforts to the development of human resources for the spiritual, social, and cultural development of the Colombian people. Although its center is in the town of Puerto Tejada in the department of Cauca, its area of influence extends throughout the entire country. Especially in recent years, its educational programs have been adopted by an increasing number of agencies worldwide.\n\nIf individuals developed interests in contributing to society beyond those of the formal Ruhi courses they were introduced to the opportunities provided by FUNDAEC.\n\nIn 2000 the World Christian Encyclopedia estimated some 64,000 Bahá'ís in Colombia ranking it as among the top 20 Bahá'í communities of the world. The Association of Religion Data Archives (relying mostly on the World Christian Encyclopedia) estimated there were 70,512 Bahá'ís (0.2% of the population) in the country in 2005, and about the same in 2010. Wolfram Alpha estimated 0.1531% of Colombians or almost 69,000 people were Bahá'ís in 2010. \n\nIn 2012 the Universal House of Justice announced the first local Bahá'í Houses of Worship would be built. One of these was specified in Norte del Cauca, Colombia. The design for this local House of Worship, to be situated in Agua Azul, was unveiled on 14 September 2014.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "444183", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=444183", "title": "Banisteriopsis caapi", "text": "Banisteriopsis caapi\n\nBanisteriopsis caapi, also known as ayahuasca, caapi or yagé, is a South American liana of the family Malpighiaceae. It is used to prepare ayahuasca, a decoction with a long history of its entheogenic use and its status as a \"plant teacher\" among the indigenous peoples of the Amazon rainforest.\n\nAccording to \"The CRC World Dictionary of Plant Names\" by Umberto Quattrocchi, the naming of the genus \"Banisteriopsis\" was dedicated to John Banister, a 17th-century English clergyman and naturalist. An earlier name for the genus was \"Banisteria\" and the plant is sometimes referred to as \"Banisteria caapi\". Other names include: Banisteria quitensis, Banisteriopsis inebrians and Banisteriopsis quitensis.\n\nCaapi is a giant vine with characteristic 12 to 14 millimetres, white or pale pink, flowers which most commonly appear in January, but are known to bloom infrequently. It resembles Banisteriopsis membranifolia and Banisteriopsis muricata, both to whom caapi is related.\n\nThis tropical vine can grow up to 30 meters in length, twining on other plants for support.\n\nCaapi contains the following harmala alkaloids:\n\n\nThese alkaloids of the beta-carboline class act as monoamine oxidase inhibitor (MAOIs). The MAOIs allow the primary psychoactive compound, DMT, which is introduced from the other common ingredient in ayahausca \"Psychotria viridis\", to be orally active.\n\nThe stems contain 0.11–0.83% beta-carbolines, with harmine and tetrahydroharmine as the major components.\n\nAlkaloids are present in all parts of the plant.\n\nIn addition to beta-carbolines, caapi is known to contain proanthocyanidins, epicatechin and procyanidin B2, which have antioxidant properties.\n\nA study from 2017, published in Scientific Reports journal, focused on the effects of caapi alkaloids harmine, harmaline and tetrahydroharmine, demonstrating an increase in adult neurogenesis in vitro. Moreover, the research concluded that, as the effects of caapi alkaloids stimulate neuroplasticity, this may be one of the reasons for ayahuasca's anti-depressive effects.\n\nIn another study, harmine has been found to stimulate proliferation of human neural progenitors in vitro.\n\nFirst mention of caapi comes from early Spanish and Portuguese explorers and missionaries who visited South America in the 16th century, describing ayahuasca brews as “diabolic” and dangerous decoctions.\n\nAlthough utilised among the indigenous tribes of South America for hundreds and perhaps even thousands of years, caapi was not identified by westerners until 1851. when Richard Spruce, an English botanist, described it as a new species. He observed how Guahibos,\nthe indigenous people of Llanos (Venezuela), chewed the bark of caapi instead of brewing it as a drink.\n\nIn the United States, caapi is not specifically regulated. A 2006 Supreme Court decision involving caapi-containing ayahuasca, which also contains other plants containing the controlled substance DMT, introduced from the \"Psychotria viridis\" component, \"Gonzales v. O Centro Espirita Beneficente Uniao do Vegetal\", was found in favor of the União do Vegetal, a Brazilian religious sect using the tea in their ceremonies and having around 130 members in the United States.\n\nIn Australia, the harmala alkaloids are scheduled substances, including harmine and harmaline; however, the living vine, or other source plants are not scheduled in most states. In the State of Queensland as of March 2008, this distinction is now uncertain. In all states, the dried herb may or may not be considered a scheduled substance, dependent on court rulings.\n\nIn Canada, harmala is listed under the Controlled Drugs and Substances Act as a schedule III substance. The vine and the ayahuasca brew are legal ambiguities, since nowhere in the Controlled Drugs and Substances Act is it stated that natural material containing a scheduled substance is illegal, a position supported by the United Nations International Narcotics Control Board.\n\nCaapi, as well as a range of harmala alkaloids, were recently scheduled in France, following a court victory by the Santo Daime religious sect allowing use of the tea due to it not being a chemical extraction and the fact that the plants used were not scheduled. Religious exceptions to narcotics laws are not allowed under French law, effectively making any use or possession of the tea illegal.\n\nThe caapi vine itself was the subject of a dispute between U.S. entrepreneur Loren Miller and the Coordinating Body of Indigenous Organizations of the Amazon Basin (COICA). In 1986, Miller obtained a U.S. patent on a variety of \"B. caapi\". COICA argued the patent was invalid because Miller's variety had been previously described in the University of Michigan Herbarium, and was therefore neither new nor distinct. The patent was overturned in 1999; however, in 2001, the United States Patent Office reinstated the patent because the law at the time the patent was granted did not allow a third party such as COICA standing to object. The Miller patent expired in 2003. \"B. caapi\" is now being cultivated commercially in Hawaii.\n\nThe 2011 novel \"Plant Teacher\" explores how the use of caapi transforms the life of one narcotourist.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3016091", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3016091", "title": "Bill Subritzky", "text": "Bill Subritzky\n\nWilfred Allen \"Bill\" Subritzky (20 November 1925 – 23 December 2015) was a New Zealand lawyer and property developer, active from the mid-1950s until the mid-1980s. His company, Universal Homes, mass-produced houses in standard designs, and sold 14,000 houses over the 30-year period of Subritzky's involvement.\n\nSubritzky was born in 1925, and lived in Auckland. In 1971 he became involved in the charismatic movement, and became an independent evangelist and healer. Subritzky's faith healing ministry, Dove Ministries, distributes pamphlets, books and videos of his teaching and his evangelistic healing meetings. He was a charismatic Anglican but the style of his ministry was more similar to Pentecostals such as the late Derek Prince.\n\nSubritzky was a proponent of the Toronto Blessing and its introduction into New Zealand. He frequently attributes problems, whether physical, spiritual, emotional or psychological, to the influence of demons, which he claims to \"cast out\". He also claims to have insight through the \"word of knowledge\" into people's sins, which have made them vulnerable to demonic influence. Skeptics have questioned his claim that he has ability to cure ailments such as asthma, arthritis and cancer; stating that he uses psychological manipulation to make people feel as though they are healed.\n\nSubritzky was a friend to the controversial Nigerian \"prophet\" T.B. Joshua and publicly supported him amidst criticism that Joshua's \"miracles\" were not of God.\n\nIn 1986, Subritzky and other conservative Christians helped establish the Coalition of Concerned Citizens, a right-wing Christian pressure group formed to oppose the socially-liberal policies of the Fourth Labour Government. He was married to Lucy Patricia (Pat), who died in 2011. Subritzky later married Kaylene.\n\nIn the 1991 New Year Honours Subritzky was awarded the Queen's Service Medal for community service.\n\nSubritzky published his autobiography \"On the Cutting Edge: The Bill Subritzky Story\" in 1993. Subritzky died on 23 December 2015.\n\n"}
{"id": "337346", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=337346", "title": "Blessing", "text": "Blessing\n\nIn religion, a blessing (also used to refer to bestowing of such) is the infusion of something with holiness, spiritual redemption, or divine will.\n\nThe modern English language term \"bless\" likely derives from the 1225 term \"blessen\", which developed from the Old English \"blǣdsian\" (preserved in the Northumbrian dialect around 950 AD). The term also appears in other forms, such as \"blēdsian\" (before 830), \"blētsian\" from around 725 and \"blesian\" from around 1000, all meaning to make sacred or holy by a sacrificial custom in the Anglo-Saxon pagan period, originating in Germanic paganism; to mark with blood. Due to this, the term is related to the term \"blōd\", meaning \"blood\". References to this indigenous practice, Blót, exist in related Icelandic sources.\n\nThe modern meaning of the term may have been influenced in translations of the Bible into Old English during the process of Christianization to translate the Latin term \"benedīcere\" meaning to \"speak well of\", resulting in meanings such as to \"praise\" or \"extol\" or to speak of or to wish well.\n\n'To be blessed' means to be favored by God, the source of all blessing. Blessings, therefore, are directly associated with, and are believed to come from, God. Thus, to express a blessing is like bestowing a wish on someone that they experience the favor of God, and to acknowledge God as the source of all blessing.\n\nA biblical damnation, in its most formal sense, is a negative blessing.\n\nIn the Bible, positive and negative blessings are related; the book of Deuteronomy prescribes that obedience to the Law of Moses brings God's blessing. One of the first incidences of blessing in the Bible is in Genesis, where Abram is ordered by the God to leave his country and is told:\n\nThe Priestly Blessing is set forth at Numbers :\n\nIn Rabbinic Judaism, a blessing (or \"berakhah\") is recited at a specified moment during a prayer, ceremony or other activity, especially before and after partaking of food. The function of blessings is to acknowledge God as the source of all blessing. A \"berakhah\" of rabbinic origin typically starts with the words, \"Blessed are You, Lord our God, King of the universe...\" Rabbinic Judaism teaches that food ultimately is a gift of the one great Provider, God, and that to partake of food legitimately one should express gratitude to God by reciting the appropriate blessing of rabbinic origin prior, while torah mandates an informal blessing afterwards. Jewish law does not reserve recitation of blessings to only a specific class of Jews; but it does mandate specific blessings to specific occasions, so that, for example since medieval times, Jewish women chiefly recite a rabbinic blessing after lighting two Shabbat candles.\n\nBlessings and curses of Christ appear in the New Testament, as recounted in the Beatitudes of Luke 6:20-22. Within Roman Catholicism, Eastern Orthodoxy, Anglicanism, Lutheranism, and similar traditions, formal blessings of the church are performed by bishops, priests, and deacons. Particular formulas may be associated with episcopal blessings and papal blessings. In Roman Catholic, Eastern Orthodox, Anglican, and Lutheran churches blessings are bestowed by bishops and priests in a liturgical context, raising their right hand and making the sign of the cross with it over persons or objects to be blessed. They also give blessings to begin divine services and at the dismissal at the end.\n\nIn the Eastern Orthodox Church liturgical blessings are performed over people, objects, or are given at specific points during divine services. A priest or bishop usually blesses with his hand, but may use a blessing cross, candles, an icon, the Chalice or Gospel Book to bestow blessings, always making the Sign of the Cross therewith. When blessing with the hand, a priest uses his right hand, holding his fingers so that they form the Greek letters IC XC, the monogram of Jesus Christ. A bishop does the same, except he uses both hands, or may hold the crozier in his left hand, using both to make the Sign of the Cross. A bishop may also bless with special candlesticks known as the dikirion and trikirion. When blessing an object, the rubrics often instruct Orthodox bishops and priests to make use of such substances as incense and holy water. Also, formal ecclesiastical permission to undertake an action is referred to as a \"blessing\". The blessing may be bestowed by a bishop or priest, or by one's own spiritual father. When an Orthodox layperson bestows a blessing, he or she will hold the thumb and first two fingers of the right hand together (the same configuration used when making the Sign of the Cross on themselved), and make the sign of the cross over the person or object they are blessing.\n\nIn the Methodist tradition, the minister blesses the congregation during the concluding part of the service of worship, known as the benediction. With regard to house blessings, the Methodist \"The Book of Worship for Church and Home\" (1965) contains \"An Office for the Blessing of a Dwelling\". \n\nIn the Roman Catholic Church a priest or bishop blesses the faithful with the Blessed Sacrament in the monstrance during Benediction of the Blessed Sacrament. According to the guidelines given by the Vatican's Congregation for the Discipline of the Sacraments that govern the procedures for liturgical ceremonies, if a Roman Catholic layperson (a lay acolyte or parish administrator, for example) or any non-ordained religious (who is not the superior of the congregation) leads a Sunday service (other than a Mass, which requires a priest to celebrate), such as Eucharistic adoration, the Rosary, or celebration of the Liturgy of the Hours, he or she does not perform rites or sacraments reserved to the clergy and does not solemnly bless the people as a bishop, priest, or deacon would at the end of the service; an alternative format is used instead.\n\nIn the Lutheran Churches, priests are often asked to bless objects frequently used by or sacred to individuals, such as a cross necklace; in addition, Lutheran clergy also bless the homes of members of the congregations.\n\nIn The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, blessings are given by worthy, male members who hold the Melchizedek priesthood.\n\nBlessings in Islam has twofold aspect, according to major scholars of Islam Blessings are given by Allah as a trial for mankind. Scholars of Islam believe that having fear of being gradually misled by blessings is an attribute of the pious and not having fear from such even though one is constantly misbehaving is an attribute of the impious. In Islam, blessings can be a source of success in afterlife if one is grateful to Allah for them and the same blessings can be a source for damnation in afterlife if one doesn't constantly be grateful to God for them.\nIslam has no clerical caste, and therefore no blessings reserved to specific individuals. Muslims will frequently pronounce \"peace and blessings be upon him\" when mentioning the name of Muhammad or indeed, any of the prophets. Muslims will also greet one another with a blessing every time they meet and depart (السلام عليكم ورحمة الله وبركاته as-salāmu alaikum wa rahmatul-lāhi wa barakātuh (meaning \"may peace, mercy and blessings of God be upon you\")).\n\nIndian religions, which includes Hinduism and its offshoots Buddhism, Jainism, Sikhism, etc. are also called Dharma religions, all of which are based on the concept of dharma and karma and typical blessings are based on Adhiṣṭhāna, Añjali Mudrā, Darśana and Mudra, etc.\n\nIn Hinduism Puja is a religious ritual performed by Hindus as an offering to various deities, distinguished persons, or special guests. It is modeled on the idea of giving a gift or offering to a deity or important person and receiving their approval (\"Ashirvād\"). During the Puja involves an 'Aarti plate' or 'Aarti lamp' is circulating around a deity or person and is generally accompanied by the singing of songs in praise of that deity or person (many versions exist). In doing so, the plate or lamp is supposed to acquire the power of the deity. The priest circulates the plate or lamp to all those present. They cup their down-turned hands over the flame and then raise their palms to their forehead - the purificatory blessing, passed from the deity's image to the flame, has now been passed to the devotee.\n\nDuring the naivedya ritual, a devotee makes an offering of a material substance such as flowers, fruits, or sweets. The deity then 'enjoys' or tastes a bit of the offering, which is then temporarily known as bhogya. This now-divinely invested substance is called prasāda, and is received by the devotee to be ingested, worn, etc. It may be the same material that was originally offered, or material offered by others and then re-distributed to other devotees. In many temples, several kinds of prasada (e.g. nuts, sweets) are distributed to the devotees.\nDarshan is a term meaning \"sight\" (in the sense of an instance of seeing or beholding; from a root \"dṛś\" \"to see\"), vision, apparition, or glimpse. It is most commonly used for \"visions of the divine,\" e.g., of a god or a very holy person or artifact. One could \"receive darshana\" of the deity in the temple, or from a great saintly person, such as a great guru. The touching of the feet (\"pranāma\") is a show of respect and it is often an integral part of darshan. Children touch the feet of their family elders while people of all ages will bend to touch the feet of a great guru, murti (icon) of a Deva (God) (such as Rama or Krishna).\n\nThere is a special link between worshipper and guru during pujas, in which people may touch the guru's feet in respect (Pranāma), or remove the dust from a guru's feet before touching their own head.\n\nAnother tradition is \"Vāhan pujā\" (Hindi) or \"Vāgana poojai\" (Tamil வாகன பூஜை) 'vehicle blessing'. This is a ritual that is performed when one purchases a new vehicle.\nBlessings in Buddhism, ceremonies are meant to provide a blessing.\n\nA \"blessing\" can also be a request for permission, as in \"gaining your parents' blessing\" would consist of having been granted consent. Clergy will normally receive a blessing from their ecclesiastical superiors to begin their ministry. In the Russian Orthodox Church pious laymen would go to a starets (elder) to receive his or her blessing before embarking upon any important work or making a major decision in their life. In the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, a member may receive a special blessing, known as a patriarchal blessing, as guidance. In the U.S., there are sometimes ritual ceremonies to bless companion animals.\n\nIn Spanish, there is a blessing which can be used as a tender farewell, especially from a parent: \"Vaya con Dios\" (\"Go with God\"), also Adiós (\"A Dios\", \"to God\"), similar to the French \"Adieu\".\n\nBlessing is also a term used for marriage in the Unification Church, \"see:\" Blessing Ceremony of the Unification Church.\n\nIn Hawaii anything new (a new building, a new stretch of road to be opened, a new garden) receives a blessing by a\nHawaiian practitioner (or Kahuna) in a public ceremony (involving also the unwinding of e.g. a maile lei).\n\nIn the Kyrgyz people's tradition, the blessing (\"bata\" or \"ak bata\", \"the right blessing\" or \"white blessing\") might be a good wish to somebody by the elderly person or the person with a best reputation before the travel or launch of some activity of the person who seeks such a blessing and moral support. The prosedure might be a trace of the pre-Islamic local nomadic traditions with deep family values. Some times, elderly person(s) might give a negative blessing (so called \"teskeri bata\" - \"the opposite blessing\" or \"the black blessing\"). <br>\n\n\n"}
{"id": "707573", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=707573", "title": "Chief Rabbi", "text": "Chief Rabbi\n\nChief Rabbi is a title given in several countries to the recognised religious leader of that country's Jewish community, or to a rabbinic leader appointed by the local secular authorities. Since 1911, through a capitulation by Ben-Zion Meir Hai Uziel, Israel has had two chief rabbis, one Ashkenazi and one Sephardi.\n\nCities with large Jewish communities may also have their own chief rabbis; this is especially the case in Israel but has also been past practice in major Jewish centers in Europe prior to the Holocaust. North American cities rarely have chief rabbis. One exception however is Montreal, with two—one for the Ashkenazi community, the other for the Sephardi.\n\nJewish law provides no support for the post of a \"chief rabbi\" since every rabbi has equal authority in principle. The position arose in Europe in the Middle Ages from governing authorities largely for secular administrative reasons such as collecting taxes and registering vital statistics, and for providing an intermediary between the government and the Jewish community, for example in the establishment of the Crown rabbi in several kingdoms of the Iberian Peninsula, the \"rab de la corte\" in Kingdom of Castile or the \"arrabi mor\" in Kingdom of Portugal, likely influenced by the expectations of their Catholic, Orthodox, and Anglican governments and neighbors. Similarly, in the 19th century there was a \"Crown rabbi\" of the Russian Empire.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe Sephardi Anglo-Jewry in the United Kingdom is mainly made up of independent Sephardi communities and synagogues, with no unified body. Thus, there is no Sephardi Chief Rabbi. The Senior Rabbi of the Spanish and Portuguese Jews' Congregation oversees the rabbis of the several synagogues which are affiliated with the congregation. The honorific title \"haham\" (plural \"hahamim\"), meaning wise, was given to each Senior Rabbi until Solomon Gaon. When Solomon Gaon retired, the congregation dropped such title and decided to separate the function of communal rabbi from the function of Dayan.\nAfter Solomon Gaon's retirement, the title haham was dropped.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe appointment of a new Chief Rabbi of Ireland has been put on hold since 2008.\n\nThe position of chief rabbi of the Land of Israel has existed for hundreds of years. During the Mandatory Period, the British recognized the chief rabbis of the Ashkenazi and Sephardi communities, just as they recognized the Mufti of Jerusalem. The offices continued after statehood was achieved. Haredi Jewish groups (such as Edah HaChareidis) do not recognize the authority of the Chief Rabbinate. They usually have their own rabbis who do not have any connection to the state rabbinate.\n\nUnder current Israeli law, the post of Chief Rabbi exists in only four cities (Jerusalem, Tel Aviv, Haifa, and Beersheba). In other cities there may be one main rabbi to whom the other rabbis of that city defer, but that post is not officially the \"Chief Rabbi\".\n\nMany of Israel's chief rabbis were previously chief rabbis of Israeli cities.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nNote: The chief rabbi of Transylvania was generally the rabbi of the city of Alba Iulia.\n\n\n\n\n\nA chief rabbinate never truly developed within the United States for a number of different reasons. While Jews first settled in the United States in 1654 in New York City, rabbis did not appear in the United States until the mid-nineteenth century. This lack of rabbis, coupled with the lack of official colonial or state recognition of a particular sect of Judaism as official effectively led to a form of congregationalism amongst American Jews. This did not stop others from trying to create a unified American Judaism, and in fact, some chief rabbis developed in some American cities despite lacking universal recognition amongst the Jewish communities within the cities (for examples see below). However, Jonathan Sarna argues that those two precedents, as well as the desire of many Jewish immigrants to the US to break from an Orthodox past, effectively prevented any effective Chief Rabbi in America.\n\n\n\nSephardi\nAshkenazi\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nPresent Av Beis Din Montreal Rav Binyomin Weiss, head of the city's Vaad Hair.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nOccasionally, the term \"Grand Rabbi\" is used to note a Hasidic Rebbe, particularly used on letterhead when letterhead is in English.\n\n"}
{"id": "31449111", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31449111", "title": "Christian persecution of paganism under Theodosius I", "text": "Christian persecution of paganism under Theodosius I\n\nThe Persecution of paganism under Theodosius I began in 381, after the first couple of years of his reign as co-emperor in the eastern part of the Roman Empire. In the 380s, Theodosius I reiterated Constantine's ban on pagan sacrifice, prohibited haruspicy on pain of death, pioneered the criminalization of magistrates who did not enforce anti-pagan laws, broke up some pagan associations and destroyed pagan temples.\n\nBetween 389 and 391 he issued the \"Theodosian decrees,\" which established a practical ban on paganism; visits to the temples were forbidden, remaining pagan holidays abolished, the sacred fire in the Temple of Vesta in the Roman Forum extinguished, the Vestal Virgins disbanded, auspices and witchcraft punished. Theodosius refused to restore the Altar of Victory in the Senate House, as requested by pagan Senators.\n\nIn 392 he became emperor of the whole empire (the last one to be so). From this moment until the end of his reign in 395, while pagans remained outspoken in their demands for toleration, he authorized or participated in the destruction of many temples, holy sites, images and objects of piety throughout the empire in actions by Christians against major pagan sites. He issued a comprehensive law that prohibited any public pagan ritual, and was particularly oppressive of Manicheans. He is likely to have suppressed the Ancient Olympic Games, whose last record of celebration is 393.\n\nTheodosius I, who reigned only in the east as co-emperor until 392, had been relatively tolerant towards pagans in the early part of his reign. However, he tried to stamp out the last vestiges of paganism with great severity. However he did not succees in this. Even though deprived of State and municipal support, bereft of funds and property the followers of the old religions continued to survive visibly, though under pressure and weakening, into the early 6th century. Justinian waged a campaign against pagans in Asia Minor and it is said 80,000 were forcibly converted. During the 6th century the virulent Christian attacks lessened as the old gods became the subject of fables. \n\nTheodosius I's relative tolerance for other religions is also indicated by his later order (in 388) for the reconstruction of a Jewish synagogue at Callinicum in Mesopotamia.\n\nHis first attempt to inhibit paganism was in 381 when he reiterated Constantine's ban on sacrifice. In 384 he prohibited haruspicy on pain of death, and unlike earlier anti-pagan prohibitions, he made non-enforcement of the law by magistrates a crime.\n\nBoth Theodosius and Valentinian II formally recognized Maximus in the year 384. For a time, the pagans enjoyed religious liberty once again and many distinguished pagans rose to important offices in the state. The fact that the temples continued to be cared for and that pagan festivals continued to be celebrated is indicated by a law of 386, which declared that care for the temples and festivals were the exclusive prerogative of the pagans. This law also confirms the right of the priests to perform the traditional pagan rites of the temples. In the year 387, Theodosius declared war on Maximus after Maximus had driven Valentinian II out of Italy. Maximus was defeated and executed and the anti-pagan regulations of Gratian were apparently reinstated by Valentinian II.\n\nIn 388 he sent a prefect to Syria, Egypt, and Asia Minor with the aim of breaking up pagan associations and the destruction of their temples. The Serapeum at Alexandria was destroyed during this campaign.\n\nIn a series of decrees called the \"Theodosian decrees\" he progressively declared that those pagan feasts that had not yet been rendered Christian ones were now to be workdays (in 389).\n\nIn 391, he reiterated the ban of blood sacrifice and decreed \"no one is to go to the sanctuaries, walk through the temples, or raise his eyes to statues created by the labor of man\" (decree \"Nemo se hostiis polluat\", Codex Theodosianus ). Also in the year 391, Valentinian II which was emperor in the West under the aegis of Theodosius, under the advice of Ambrose issued a law that not only prohibited sacrifices but also forbade anyone from visiting the temples. This again caused turbulence in the West. Valentinian II quickly followed this law with a second one, which declared that pagan temples were to be closed, a law that was viewed as practically outlawing paganism.\n\nThe emperor Theodosius, who had been reigning in the East, had been relatively tolerant towards pagans in the early part of his reign. Theodosius dealt harshly with Arians, heretics and Christian apostates. Laws were directed against Christians who sought to convert back to the old religions and against private divination. He is known to have appointed various pagans to office in the earlier part of his reign. For example, he appointed the pagan Tatianus as the praetorian prefect of Egypt. His tolerance for other religions is indicated by his 388 order for the reconstruction of a Jewish synagogue at Callinicum in Mesopotamia, which had been destroyed by a bishop and his Christian flock.\n\nAfter the death of Maximus, Valentinian II, under the aegis of Theodosius, once again assumed the office of emperor in the West. Valentinian II, advised by Ambrose, and in spite of pleas from the pagans, refused to restore the Altar of Victory to the Senate House, or their income to the priests and Vestal Virgins.\n\nValentinian was murdered, possibly by agents of Arbogast whom he had tried to dismiss, and Eugenius, a professor of rhetoric, was proclaimed emperor. The ancestral religious rites were once again performed openly and the Altar of Victory was restored.\nThe temples that were thus closed could be declared \"abandoned\", as Bishop Theophilus of Alexandria immediately noted in applying for permission to demolish a site and cover it with a Christian church, an act that must have received general sanction, for \"mithraea\" forming crypts of churches, and temples forming the foundations of 5th century churches appear throughout the former Roman Empire.\n\nBy decree in 391, Theodosius ended the subsidies that had still trickled to some remnants of Greco-Roman civic paganism too. In 394 the eternal fire in the Temple of Vesta in the Roman Forum was extinguished, and the Vestal Virgins were disbanded. Taking the auspices and practicing witchcraft were to be punished. When pagan members of the Senate in Rome appealed to him to restore the Altar of Victory in the Senate House, he refused.\n\nThe apparent change of policy that resulted in the \"Theodosian decrees\" has often been credited to the increased influence of Ambrose, bishop of Milan. In 390 Ambrose had excommunicated Theodosius, thereafter he had greater influence with a penitent Theodosius.\n\nOnly after what is commonly known as the \"massacre\" of Thessalonica (in 390) was Ambrose able to gain influence with Theodosius. Ambrose accomplished this by excommunicating Theodosius and thereby forcing him to obey him. Ambrose had a council of the Church condemn this act. Theodosius submitted himself to Ambrose and agreed to do penance. Theodosius' penance apparently included his promise to adopt a new role as the champion of the Christian faith.\n\nThe excommunication was due to Theodosius orders which resulted in the massacre of 7,000 inhabitants of Thessalonica, in response to the assassination of his military governor stationed in the city, and that Theodosius performed several months of public penance.\n\nSome modern historians question the consequences of the laws against pagans. The specifics of the decrees were superficially limited in scope, specific measures in response to various petitions from Christians throughout his administration. The punishment for venerating man-made pagan images was the forfeiture of an individual's house. An individual's punishment for sacrificing in temples or shrines was a fine of twenty-five pounds of gold\n\nIn the year 391 in Alexandria in the wake of the great anti-pagan riots \"busts of Serapis which stood in the walls, vestibules, doorways and windows of every house were all torn out and annihilated..., and in their place the sign of the Lord's cross was painted in the doorways, vestibules, windows and walls, and on pillars.\"\n\nRome was more pagan than Christian up until the 390s; Gaul, Spain and northern Italy, in all but the urban areas, were pagan, save Milan which remained half pagan.\n\nIn the year 392, Theodosius become Emperor of also the western part of the Roman Empire, the last emperor to rule over both. In the same year he officially began to proscribe the practice of paganism. This was when he authorized the destruction of many temples throughout the empire.\n\nTheodosius participated in actions by Christians against major pagan sites: the destruction of the gigantic Serapeum by soldiers in 391, according to the Christian sources authorized by Theodosius (\"extirpium malum\") needs to be seen against a complicated background of less spectacular violence in the city: Eusebius mentions street-fighting in Alexandria between Christians and non-Christians as early as 249, and non-Christians had participated in the struggles for and against Athanasius in 341 and 356. \"In 363 they killed Bishop George for repeated acts of pointed outrage, insult, and pillage of the most sacred treasures of the city.\" In 391 riots broke out between supporters of Theodosius's Imperial Prefect and the supporters of the independent Patriarch of Alexandria as to who really governed in Alexandria; the rioters opposing the Patriarch took refuge in the Serapeum and used it as a fortress; when order was restored the prefect ordered it demolished so future rioters could not use it for the same purpose.\n\nTheodosius issued a comprehensive law that prohibited the performance of any type of pagan sacrifice or worship. Theodosius prohibited imperial palace officers and magistrates from honoring their Lares with fire, their Genius with wine, or their Penates with incense. Theodosius also prohibited the practice of all forms of divination, even those forms of divination that were not considered harmful to the welfare of the Emperor, with this wide-ranging law. The laws were particularly hard against the Manicheans who were deprived of the right to make wills or to benefit from them. Manicheans could be sought out by informers, brought to court and in some cases executed. Paganism was now proscribed, a \"religio illicita\".\n\nIn 393, Theodosius was ready to begin his war against Eugenius and Arbogastes. The battle that ensued became, in essence, a battle for the survival of paganism. The defeat of Eugenius by Theodosius in 394 led to the final separation of paganism from the state. Theodosius visited Rome to attempt to convert the pagan members of the Senate. Being unsuccessful in this, he withdrew all state funds that had been set aside for the public performance of pagan rites. From this point forward, state funds would never again be made available for the public performance of pagan rites nor for the maintenance of the pagan temples. Despite this setback on their religion, the pagans remained outspoken in their demands for toleration. Many pagans simply pretended to convert as an obvious instrument of advancement.\n"}
{"id": "560545", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=560545", "title": "Church of the Holy Family (Agoura Hills, California)", "text": "Church of the Holy Family (Agoura Hills, California)\n\nHoly Family is a private, independent traditionalist Catholic chapel located behind a guarded gate at 30188 W. Mulholland Highway, Agoura Hills, California, United States. It is not affiliated with the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Los Angeles. Its 70 or so members are traditional Catholics, including some that hold a sedevacantism position. They reject many or all of the reforms introduced by the Second Vatican Council and worship according to earlier Roman Catholic rites including the Tridentine Mass. \n\nThe Rev. Clement Procopio, a Franciscan priest, was instructed not to offer Mass in the Diocese by Phoenix Bishop Thomas J. O'Brien. The chapel is supported by the non-profit A.P. Reilly Foundation, which is funded by actor/director Mel Gibson. According to 2008 IRS filings, the foundation's assets, including real property, total $42 million.\n"}
{"id": "47016248", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47016248", "title": "Cube of Space", "text": "Cube of Space\n\nThe Cube of Space is an occult concept that was popularized by the prominent occultist Paul Foster Case. The Cube of Space associates the three axes of the cube, the center point of the cube, the six sides of the cube, and the twelve edges of the cube, with the 22 letters of the hebrew alphabet. The Cube of Space is based upon two verses in the proto-kabbala text called the Sepher Yetzirah. One of those verses is in chapter 4 and the other verse is in chapter 5. The verse in chapter 4 associates 6 hebrew letters with six cardinal directions (up, down, east, west, north, south). The verse in chapter 5 associates 12 hebrew letters with either 12 diagonal directional 'arms' or 12 diagonal boundaries (different translations contradict each other), which some interpret as referring to the 12 edges of an octahedron, though Paul Foster Case interpreted these as the 12 edges of a cube. In the most authoritative English translation of the Sepher Yetzirah, scholar Aryeh Kaplan interprets this verse (Chapter 5, Verse 2) as describing a cube. (Sefer Yetzirah Page 203) While occult author Kevin Townley explains a cosmology with an octahedron within a cube. \n\n"}
{"id": "49886186", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49886186", "title": "David Evans (bishop)", "text": "David Evans (bishop)\n\nDavid Richard John Evans (b 5 June 1938) was an Anglican missionary bishop from 1978 to 1988.\n\nEvans was educated at Gonville and Caius College, Cambridge and ordained in 1966. His first post was a curacy at Christ Church, Cockfosters. In 1968 he became a missionary pastor with the Argentine Inter-Varsity Christian Fellowship, serving until 1977. He was the Chaplain of the Good Shepherd Church in Lima then Bishop of Peru. From 1988 to 1993 he was an Assistant Bishop in the Diocese of Bradford; within the Diocese of Chichester from 1994 to 1997; and the Diocese of Birmingham from 1997 until 2003. He was an associate priest for the Stourdene benefice from 2003 until 2010.\n"}
{"id": "4804032", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4804032", "title": "Dhutanga", "text": "Dhutanga\n\nDhutanga (Pali \"dhutaṅga\" \"renunciation\", known in Thai as \"Thudong\"; ) is a group of thirteen austerities or ascetic practices most commonly observed by the practitioners of the Thai Forest Tradition of Theravada Buddhism. While the Buddha did not require these practices, they were recommended for those wanting to practice greater asceticism.\nAll s will observe at least one of the dhutanga austerities. The dhutanga austerities are meant to deepen the practice of meditation and assist in living the Holy Life. Their aim is to help the practitioner to develop detachment with material things including the body.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48394186", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48394186", "title": "First Church in Roxbury", "text": "First Church in Roxbury\n\nThe First Church in Roxbury, also known as the First Church of Roxbury is the current headquarters of the Unitarian Universalist (\"UU\") Urban Ministry. The church has been in use since 1632 when early English settlers built the first meetinghouse. Since then, the meetinghouse has been rebuilt four times, and its appearance today reflects how the meetinghouse looked in the late Nineteenth and early Twentieth centuries.\n\nThe First Church of Roxbury was the sixth church to be gathered by the early English settlers. In 1631, settlers living in Roxbury, who belonged to the Church of Dorchester, were finally self-sufficient enough to create their own church—the First Church of Roxbury. The \"official\" beginning of the church is recognized as when the first meeting house was constructed the next year. The first meetinghouse served as a central part of the community from 1632–1674. The first pastor, Reverend Thomas Weld, was ordained in July 1632 (and it is presumed that that is also when the Church's covenant, a document stated the congregation was officially recognized by the church, was signed). There is no definitive record of what the first meeting house looked like, but based on the construction of the time, it was likely a simple, small building with a thatched roof. The first meeting house served as a central location for the budding community in Roxbury, as the church was a central part of the early settlers lives (many of whom were fleeing to America for freedom from religious persecution). In August, 1645, the congregation decided to create the \"Free Schoole in Roxburie\" (now Roxbury Latin School). Samuel Danforth, the second pastor of the church, was ordained September 24, 1650.\n\nJohn Eliot was ordained as the first teacher on November 5, 1632. Eliot, as a Puritan missionary became known by many as \"the apostle to the Indians\" for learning the Algonquin language (the Native American language spoken in the area at the time). He used this knowledge to translate the ten commandments, the Lord's prayer, and other scriptures into the Algonquin language, to try converting the natives to Puritan Christianity. Although unintentional, Eliot also introduced the concept of written language as the natives did not previously have a phonetic alphabet; they communicated primarily through spoken language with their written language being mainly pictorial images (such as Egyptian hieroglyphs).\n\nDue to a growth in population in Roxbury, as well as the inclusion of residents of Muddy River, who had no place of worship of their own until 1717, in the congregation, a new meeting house was built for the church. The first meeting in this new meeting house took place on November 15, 1674. On October 17, 1688, Nehemiah Walter was ordained as a pastor. Previously, the meeting house was full of just seats, but the first pews are built sometime around 1693. In 1706, residents from \"Jamaica End\" (the westerly part of Roxbury) asked the general court for permission to be made their own precinct and for help with building their own meeting house, which was denied. However, in 1711 they again made the same request signed by thirty-two people, and the request was granted; eighteen members from The First Church in Roxbury were sent off to form The Second Church in Roxbury. Thomas Walter was ordained as a pastor on October 19, 1718. The population of Roxbury continued to grow and finally, in March, 1736, the congregation once again brought up the subject of building a new meeting house; however they were unsure whether to build it on the same spot or to pick a new location. Finally, it was decided that the new meeting house would be built slightly north, and that the old meeting house was to be demolished once the new one began construction.\n\nAgain due to growing population, a larger meeting house was necessary and in the summer of 1741, the third meeting house was completed; the first meeting was held in the new building on August 31, 1741. However, a fire broke out in February 1743 (or 1744), and destroyed the meeting house. The congregation worshipped in the brick schoolhouse until a new meeting house was built.\n\nFollowing the destruction by fire, the fourth meeting house was built on the same location and of the same design as the former third meeting house and was completed in 1746. It continued to serve the congregation as it always had until the American Revolutionary War broke out.\n\nFrom March 29, 1775 (a few weeks before the Siege of Boston, the opening phase of the Revolutionary War, began) until April 8, 1776 (a few weeks after the Siege ended) there were no public meetings held in the meeting house. During the siege, no religious meetings could be held and the meeting house served as a signal station for the army. As such, it was also a target for British bombs, and by the time the British retreated from Boston in 1776, the meeting house had been damaged by bombs in several places. As a result of the war, the members of the parish were scattered, and until 1782 there was no official minister for the church.\n\nOnce the church named a new pastor in 1782, the church and meeting house largely went back to serving the community and congregation as it always had. Various efforts were made to restore the meeting house following the damage, and in 1787, a group of men who lived near the meeting house presented the church with a clock, which was placed on the bell tower. It was also around this time that the church began officially referring to itself as a parish, rather than a precinct. On May 27, 1799, the church voted against building a new meeting house. However, in 1802, another vote was taken and it was decided that measures should be taken to start building a new meeting house for the congregation. Three different plans were submitted, and after one was chose, it was decided that the old meeting house would be put up at auction. On April 17, 1803, the old meeting house was used by the congregation for the last time.\n\nThe Unitarian Universalist Urban Ministry is a Roxbury, Boston, MA-based social justice organization focused on providing nonsectarian programs that focus on providing the community with \"academic and enrichment programming for children and youth, emergency shelter for individuals and families fleeing from domestic violence, affordable housing and intentional community for young women, including transitional housing for those leaving shelter, and volunteer-based capacity-building services for Roxbury-serving nonprofits.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "837424", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=837424", "title": "Gondophares", "text": "Gondophares\n\nGondophares I was the founder of the Indo-Parthian Kingdom in western Pakistan. He seems to have ruled c. 20–10 BC according to modern research. However, Bopearachchi gives a later timeframe of 21–40 AD for his rule. He was originally likely a relative or vassal of the Apracas, ruling in Apracapura (Bajaur, Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa-Pakistan) and down in to Sistan (Balochistan).\n\nGondophares I has traditionally been given a later date; the reign of one king calling himself Gondophares has been established at 20 AD by the rock inscription he set up at Takht-i-Bahi near Mardan, Pakistan, in 46 AD., and he has also been connected with the third-century \"Acts of Thomas\".\n\nGondophares I took over the Kabul valley and the Punjab and Sindh region area from the Scythian king Azes. In reality, a number of vassal rulers seem to have switched allegiance from the Indo-Scythians to Gondophares I. His empire was vast, but was only a loose framework, which fragmented soon after his death. His capital was the Gandharan city of Taxila. Taxila is located in Punjab to the west of the present Islamabad. Ernst Herzfeld claims his name is perpetuated in the name of the Afghan city Kandahar, which he founded under the name Gundopharron.\n\nThe name also occurs in Avestic Old Iranian as \"Vindafarna\" \"May he find glory.\" In old Armenian, it is \"Gastaphar\". “Gundaparnah” was apparently the Eastern Iranian form of the name.\n\nOn the coins of Gondophares, the royal names are Iranian, but the other legends of the coins are in Greek and Kharoṣṭhī.\n\nErnst Herzfeld maintained that the dynasty of Gondophares represented the House of Suren.\n\nThe name of Gondophares was translated in Armenian in \"Gastaphar\", and then in Western languages into \"Gaspar[d]\". He may be the \"Gaspar[d], King of Persia\", who, according to apocryphal texts and eastern Christian tradition, was one of the three Biblical Magi who attended the birth of Christ. Through this interaction and association, Gaspar[d] was adopted by the Europeans (and in Western tradition) as a male first name.\n\nThe apocryphical \"Acts of Thomas\" mentions one king \"Gudnaphar\". This king has been associated with Gondophares I by many scholars, as it was not yet established that there were several kings with the same name. Richard N. Frye, Emeritus Professor of Iranian Studies at Harvard University, has noted that this ruler has been identified with a king called Caspar in the Christian tradition of the Apostle St Thomas and his visit to India. Recent research by R.C. Senior shows with some certainty that the king who best fits these references was Gondophares-Sases, the fourth king using the title Gondophares.\n\nA. D. H. Bivar, writing in \"The Cambridge History of Iran\", said that the reign dates of one Gondophares recorded in the Takht-i Bahi inscription (20–46 or later AD) are consistent with the dates given in the \"Apocryphal Acts of Thomas\" for the Apostle's voyage to India following the Crucifixion in c. 30 AD. B. N. Puri, of the Department of Ancient Indian History and Archaeology, University of Lucknow, India, also identified Gondophares with the ruler said to have been converted by Saint Thomas the Apostle. The same goes for the reference to an Indo-Parthian king in the accounts of the life of Apollonius of Tyana. Puri says that the dates given by Philostratus in his \"Life of Apollonius of Tyana\" for Apollonius' visit to Taxila, 43–44 AD, are within the period of the reign of Gondophares I, who also went by the Parthian name, Phraotes.\nSaint Thomas was brought before King Gundaphar (Gondophares) at his capital, Taxila. \"Taxila\" is the Greek form of the contemporary Pali name for the city, “Takkasila”, from the Sanskrit “Taksha-sila”. The name of the city was transformed in subsequent legends concerning Thomas, which were consolidated into the \"Historia Trium Regum (History of the Three Kings)\" by John of Hildesheim (1364–1375), into \"Silla\", \"Egrisilla\", \"Grisculla\", and so on, the name having undergone a process of metamorphosis similar to that which transformed “Vindapharnah” (Gondophares) to “Caspar”. \nHildesheim's \"Historia Trium Regum\" says: “In the third India is the kingdom of Tharsis, which at that time was ruled over by King Caspar, who offered incense to our Lord. The famous island Eyrisoulla [or Egrocilla] lies in this land: it is there that the holy apostle St Thomas is buried”. \"Egrisilla\" appears on the globe made in Nuremberg by Martin Behaim in 1492, where it appears on the southernmost part of the peninsula of Hoch India, “High India” or “India Superior”, on the eastern side of the Sinus Magnus (\"Great Gulf\", the Gulf of Thailand): there Egrisilla is identified with the inscription, \"das lant wird genant egtisilla,\" (“the land called Egrisilla”). In his study of Behaim's globe, E. G. Ravenstein noted: “Egtisilla, or Eyrisculla [or Egrisilla: the letters “r” and “t” in the script on the globe look similar], is referred to in John of Hildesheim’s version of the ‘Three Kings’ as an island where St. Thomas lies buried\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38897225", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38897225", "title": "Gudiya, Kargil war victim", "text": "Gudiya, Kargil war victim\n\nGudiya is the name of an Indian Muslim woman who was tragically affected by the Kargil war and whose plight was prominently highlighted by the print and electronic media. She was married to Arif in 1999, 10 days before the sapper was called on duty to Kargil. Arif failed to return from the war and was declared an army deserter until the authorities realised that he had been taken prisoner of war and was in Pakistan. In the meanwhile, the 26-year-old woman, thinking Arif had died, had been remarried by her relatives to another man, Taufiq in 2003, and was pregnant with his child.\n\nA twist in Gudiya's life surfaced when the Pakistanis finally released Arif and he returned home to a warm welcome. Gudiya was then living with her parents in Kalunda village on the outskirts of Delhi. Gudiya then moved to Mundali village in Meerut district of Uttar Pradesh – about 75 km from Delhi at her inlaws house. She told the media assembled at the Village Panchayat that she wanted go with her first husband. The Islamic scholars present in the audience at that point of time applauded her decision, proclaiming it to be in accordance with the Shariat . The second marriage, they claimed, was illegal.\n\nHowever, an investigation by Rediff revealed that Gudiya reverted to her first husband Arif under pressure from him, his family members, the villagers and most importantly, the religious leaders. In fact, Gudiya herself asserted dominant pressure in her decision by saying \"It was everybody's decision\". The entire process of Gudiya favouring her first husband over the second husband Taufeeq was done without informing the latter. Also, Gudiya's uncle Riyasat Ali said, \"She was pressured by the people there. She was not allowed to speak. The clerics told her that she had to follow the Shariat and go to Arif. They said her son would become illegitimate if she did not. Taufeeq, on the other hand, said Gudiya had spoken to him on telephone five days before this incident. She had explained to him the pressure she was being under. Her father had even threatened to commit suicide if she did not go back to Arif.\nArif, who had proclaimed that it was his love for Gudiya which brought him back, declared he was ready to take his wife back but not the step-child.\n\nArif, after initial reluctance, had agreed to accept his wife with the unborn baby with a caveat that he might send the child back to Taufiq after he grew up. She gave birth a month later. She also developed anaemia, suffered a miscarriage a couple of months later, underwent bouts of depression and had many gynecological problems. 15 months after the reunion, she succumbed to septicaemia in the Army Research and Referral Hospital in Delhi. A probable cause of depression for Gudiya was the fact that her brother-in-law and his wife taunted her because they thought she was unlucky, for, within a few days of the marriage, Arif had gone to fight in the war and went missing.\n\nAd-filmmaker Prabhakar Shukla's first feature film, 'Kahaani Gudiya Ki' is based on the life of Gudiya. He said even though the lady died, the issue that the happenings raised is very much relevant. \"My film is not only about what happened with Gudiya, but it's a panoramic view of the entire episode from Gudiya's point of view. That's besides paying homage to her,\" says Shukla, adding, \"Gudiya died due to excessive mental trauma that led to multiple organ failure. Her death is the most tragic part of the entire episode, and the film questions why it happened to her.\"\n"}
{"id": "1403189", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1403189", "title": "Haryana State Akali Dal", "text": "Haryana State Akali Dal\n\nHaryana State Akali Dal (or HSAD) is a Sikh political party in India, a splinter group of the Badal-led Shiromani Akali Dal that sided with Gurcharan Singh Tohra on the Ranjit Singh issue. HSAD was formed on 23 May 1999 on similar lines as Shiromani Akali Dal Delhi. Five out of eleven Shiromani Gurdwara Prabhandak Committee members from Haryana state joined HSAD. The HSAD general secretary is Kartar Singh Takkar.\n"}
{"id": "12726280", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12726280", "title": "History of Arabs in Afghanistan", "text": "History of Arabs in Afghanistan\n\nThe history of Arabs in Afghanistan spans over one millennium, from the 11th century Islamic conquest when Arabs arrived with their Islamic mission until recently when others from the Arab world arrived to defend fellow Muslims from the Soviet Union followed by NATO forces. Most of the early Arabs gradually lost their Arabic hegemony and ultimately mixed with the local population, though they are still considered a cognizably distinct ethnic group according to the Constitution of Afghanistan and the Afghan National Anthem. Afghans who carry Sayed or Quraishi in their names usually claim Arab ancestry.\n\nAt the end of the 7th century, the Umayyad Arabs entered into the area now known as Afghanistan after decisively defeating the Sassanid Empire in Nihawand. Following this colossal defeat, the last Sassanid Emperor, Yazdegerd III, who became a hunted fugitive, fled eastward deep into Central Asia. In pursuing Yazdegerd, the route the Arabs selected to enter the area was from north-eastern Iran and thereafter into Herat where they stationed a large portion of their army before advancing toward eastern Afghanistan. Some Arabs settled in these new areas and married locals while adopting new customs. Other groups and contingents who elected not to settle gradually pushed eastwards but encountered resistance in areas surrounding Bamiyan. When ultimately arriving at Kabul, the Arabs confronted the Kabul Shahan who had built a long defensive wall around the city. The bloodiest war in Kabul was in Chahardihi area where still tombs of Arabs killed in that war exist in DarulAman area. The most famous Arab character killed in that war was Shah-do Shamshira, whose tomb is located near Kabul river in Asmayee st. One of the most famous Commanders who fought against Arab invaders is known as \"Mazangi\". Mazangi was in command at the battle of \"Asmayee\" (Kohi-Sherdarwaza) where Shah-Do Shamshira was killed. There is a number sights where Arab invaders fought in Kabul, but the bloodiest battle after Asmayee was the battle of Alwoden in the area known as Darul Aman today. The historical details of this battle remains largely unknown, though the Arabs were nonetheless subdued in the long term. \n\nDespite the lack of much written accounts, another famous archaeological legacy of this battle remains standing in Kabul, notably the tomb of the Shah-e Do Shamshira (translated into, \"The leader with the Two Swords\" in Persian) next to the Shah-Do Shamshira Mosque. The site, located near Kabul's market district, was built near the area where an Arab commander died. \n\nFollowing the Arab confrontation, the region was made part of Khorasan with its seat of power in Herat in the west. The Arabs later partially relinquished some of their territorial control though reasserted its authority approximately 50 years later in 750 when the Abbasid caliphs replaced the Ummayads. By then, many Arabs increasingly blended with locals as the Arabic identity in the region began to undergo a significant change. Arab contingents settled throughout various parts of present-day Afghanistan including the Wardak, Logar, Kabul, Balkh and in the Sulaiman Mountains. Over time they adopted local customs and languages, some became Persianized while others became Afghanized who followed Pashtunwali. \n\nIt was during the reign of the Ya'qub Saffari that Arabic began losing its influence in the region. Nevertheless, the Arabs attempted to re-exert their influence in the area by supporting the Samanid rulers of Balkh who in return, assisted the Abbasid Arabs against the defiant Saffarid dynasty.\n\nDespite maintaining some clothing customs and attire, most the early Afghan-Arabs (or Arab-Afghans) gradually lost their original tongue of Arabic. This is confirmed in the 15th century work, Baburnama, which notes that the Arabs of Afghanistan have virtually lost the Arabic language and instead speak Persian and Pashto language. Although the exact number of Arab-Afghans remains unknown, mostly due to ambiguous claims of descent, an 18th-century academic estimated that they number at approximately 60,000 families.\n\nAfter the Bolshevik Revolution, many Sunni Arabs residing in Bukhara and other areas of Central Asia ruled by Russians migrated to Afghanistan where they were better able to practice their religion without fear of religious persecution or discrimination. One estimate indicated that approximately 30,000 Arabs lived in Bukhara during the mid-nineteenth century. The Arabs who entered into Afghanistan during this time still retained some Arabic in contrast to the Afghan Arabs who came during the first wave.\n\nSome Arabs from the second wave intermarried with the local population as they adopted the languages of northern Afghanistan, namely Uzbek, Turkmen, and Persian language. Many settled in Kunduz, Takhar and Sar-e Pol provinces. Currently, while they still view themselves as Arab, all the Arabs from the second wave have, like those from the original wave, lost their language of Arabic, adopting Persian instead.\n\nAlthough some tribal names, including Qureshi and Shaiboni are still remembered, most of the Arabs view genealogies as unimportant. Many of these Afghan Arabs work in the agricultural industry, often growing cotton and wheat while others raise karakul sheep. According to an academic, the Central Asian Arabs have not had any contact with Middle Eastern Arabs since the time of Tamerlane (circa 1400).\n\nThe main body of the Afghan Arabs are found in Shibarghan provinces. Afghan Arabs, however, are presently all Dari-speaking and have been in their collective memories. However, they claim an Arab identity. There are other such Persian-speaking \"Arabs\" to the east, between Shebergan, Mazar-i Sharif, Kholm and Kunduz living in pockets. Their self-identification as Arabs is largely based on their tribal identity and may in fact point to the 7th and 8th centuries migration to this and other Central Asian locales of many Arab tribes from Arabia in the wake of the Islamic conquests of the region.\n\nDuring the 1980s Soviet–Afghan War, many Arab Muslims arrived and volunteered to help Afghans fight Soviet Union. Some of these remained after the Soviets withdrew from the country and were granted citizenship. Others intermarried with local Afghans while some arrived with their families to Afghanistan. Kandahar is home to a small Arab cemetery where over 70 graves belong to Arab al-Qaeda functionaries who were killed as a result of the U.S. War on Terror. These Arabs are revered by the Taliban and the Salafist sympathizers as shahid (martyrs).\n\nAround 900 families live in Khoshal Abad and Yakhdan villages of Dawlat Abad district of the province, the villagers can trace their lineage back to the third caliphate of Uthman, in the 7th century. These families are mainly engaged in agriculture and carpet weaving. Most Arabs in Balkh Province, speak in Arabic as their mother tongue, and Dari as a second language. While some of the older generation had never learned to speak either of Afghanistan’s two official languages, Dari and Pashto, many of the younger generation were being taught Dari in school and forgetting their Arabic; about 40 percent can no longer speak Arabic. Many of their customs have been forgotten, or are no longer relevant to a younger generation that identifies more with Afghanistan. Arabs who settled in northern Balkh province are worried that their culture is being wiped out as more people adopt the language and traditions of Afghanistan. Arabs form the smaller minorities in the town and district of Kholm; many identify themselves as ethnic Arabs although no one actually speaks Arabic.\n\nThere are about 1,000 families living in Hassanabad of Shebarghan, capital of Jowzjan province, and in Sultan Arigh village of Aqcha district that identify themselves as Arabs. None, however, has spoken Arabic in their collective memory, with Dari forming their native language.\n\n"}
{"id": "5099381", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5099381", "title": "Hong Yi", "text": "Hong Yi\n\nHong Yi (23 October 1880 – 13 October 1942; ), born Li Shutong (李叔同) was a Chinese Buddhist monk, artist and art teacher. He also went by the names Wen Tao, Guang Hou, and Shu Tong, but was most commonly known by his Buddhist name, Hong Yi. He was a master painter, musician, dramatist, calligrapher, seal cutter, poet, and Buddhist monk.\n\nHe was born in Tianjin to a banking family originating in Hongtong County, Shanxi, that migrated to Tianjin in the Ming Dynasty, though his mother was from Pinghu, Zhejiang province.\n\nIn 1898 Li moved to Shanghai and joined the \"Shanghai Painting and Calligraphy Association\", and the \"Shanghai Scholarly Society\" while he was attending the Nanyang Public School (later became Jiaotong University). In 1905 Li went to Japan to study at Tokyo School of Fine Art in Ueno Park where he specialized in Western painting and music, and met a lover by the name of Yukiko who was to become his concubine. In 1910 Li returned to China and was appointed to Tianjin's Beiyang Advanced Industry School. The next year he was appointed as a music teacher in a girls' school in Shanghai. He went to Hangzhou in 1912 and became a lecturer in the Zhejiang Secondary Normal College (now Hangzhou Normal University). He taught not only Western painting and music but also art history. By 1915 Jiang Qian hired him as a teacher at Nanjing Higher Normal School (renamed in 1949 to Nanjing University), where he taught painting and music. He also taught at Zhejiang Secondary Normal School (浙江兩級師範學堂), the predecessor of the famous Hangzhou High School.\n\nDuring these later years, Li's reputation grew, as he became the first Chinese educator to use nude models in his painting classes, not to mention as the first teacher of Western music in China. Some of the students, like Singapore artist Chen Wen Hsi (陳文希）whom he personally groomed, went on to become accomplished masters of the arts in their later days. Li Shutong himself was also an accomplished composer and lyricist. Many of his compositions are still remembered and performed today.\n\nIn 1916, Li underwent a 21-day fast at a temple in Hangzhou, and experienced the benefit of a spiritual life. The following year, he took refuge in the Three Jewels of Buddhism. After spending another year there, Li began a new chapter in his life by choosing to be ordained as a monk, and thus began a holistic life dedicated to propagating Buddhism and its code of conduct. After becoming a monk he practised only calligraphy, developing a simple and unadorned, yet unique style, which was treasured by everyone who received a sample. He became known to all as Master Hong Yi. In 1942, Master Hong Yi died peacefully at the age of 61 in Quanzhou, Fujian Province.\n\nBeijing-based progressive-metal rock band the Tang Dynasty recorded a rock-version of Master Hong Yi's famous romantic ballad, the \"Farewell song\" in their second album \"Epic\".\n\nA special 130th anniversary celebration of Master Hong Yi showcasing his calligraphy and painting works took place in 2010 in Shanghai, partly sponsored by the Pinghu Municipal Government, and attended by a granddaughter of Hong Yi.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54952021", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54952021", "title": "International Club for Psychical Research", "text": "International Club for Psychical Research\n\nThe International Club for Psychical Research (ICPR) was a short-lived psychical organization that was formed in May 1911 by Annie Besant.\n\nThe ICPR was considered a rival organization to the Society for Psychical Research. The headquarters of the club were situated in Regent Street, London near Piccadilly Circus.\n\nThe club held a séance room for testing spiritualist mediums, a lecture hall, library, dining room and two kitchens. Its membership was open to any belief system but mainly consisted of occultists, spiritualists and theosophists. The \"International Psychic Gazette\" was a monthly periodical founded in 1912 as the official organ of the ICPR but ceased after a few months. It was revived as an independent publication, the \"Psychic Gazette\" by Scottish businessman and editor John Lewis. It survived for over twenty years, 1913–1935. Continental editors were Pascal Forthuny and Felicia Rudolphina Scatcherd.\n\nThe first westerner, Frank Humphreys met Ramana Maharshi in 1911 and wrote articles about him which were published in the \"International Psychic Gazette\" in 1913. According to Arvind Sharma his account \"has been widely viewed as an excellent summation of Ramana Maharshi's teachings.\"\n\nContributors to the \"Psychic Gazette\" included Arthur Conan Doyle, Horace Leaf, James Martin Peebles and Lilian Whiting. In 1911, the club was reported to have had six hundred members. Known members included Lyman J. Gage, Lord Edward Gleichen, Daisy Greville, Countess of Warwick, Alfred Edward Turner and Francis Younghusband.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2984938", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2984938", "title": "Irreligion in Canada", "text": "Irreligion in Canada\n\nIrreligion is common throughout all provinces and territories of Canada. Irreligious Canadians include atheists, agnostics, and humanists. The surveys may also include those who are deists, spiritual and pantheists. The 2011 Canadian census reported that 23.9% of Canadians declare no religious affiliation. According to Ontario Consultants on Religious Tolerance, among those estimated 4.9 million Canadians of no religion, an estimated 1.9 million would specify atheist, 1.8 million would specify agnostic, and 1.2 million humanist.\n\nIn 2011, a survey conducted by Ipsos-Reid showed that 47% of the Canadian population believed religion does more harm in the world than good, while 64% believed that religion provides more questions than answers. A 2008 Canadian Press Harris-Decima telephone survey of just over 1,000 Canadians found 23% were willing to state they do not believe in any god.\n\nThe Canadian Ipsos-Reid poll released September 12, 2011 entitled \"Canadians Split On Whether Religion Does More Harm in the World than Good\", sampled 1,129 Canadian adults and came up with 30% who do not believe in a god. The same poll found that 33% of respondents who identified themselves as Catholics and 28% Protestants said they didn't believe in a god.\n\nA 2010 80-questions mail-in survey of 420 Canadians by Carleton University Survey Centre and the Montreal-based Association for Canadian Studies found 30% agreed with the statement \"I know God really exists and I have no doubts\", 20% acknowledged they \"have doubts\" but \"feel that I do believe in God\", 10% answered they believe in God \"sometimes\", 20% said they don't believe in a \"personal God\" but \"do believe in a higher power\", 12% adopted the classic agnostic position and said they \"don't know whether there is a God and don't believe there is a way to find out\", and 7% said no god exists. Slightly more than half believed in heaven, while less than a third believed in hell, with 53.5% saying they believed in life after death. About 27% said they believe in reincarnation, and 50% expressed belief in religious miracles.\n\nSome non-religious Canadians have formed associations, such as the Humanist Association of Canada, Centre for Inquiry Canada, Toronto Secular Alliance, or the Canadian atheists. In 1999, some non-religious Canadians signed a petition to remove \"God\" from the preamble to the Canadian Constitution. Svend Robinson, who tabled this petition in Parliament, was subsequently relegated to the backbenches by his party leader. Shortly afterwards, the same group petitioned to remove \"God\" from the Canadian national anthem, \"O Canada\", but to no avail.\n\nThe Canadian provinces and territories ranked by percentage of population claiming no religion according to the 2001 Canadian Census and the 2011 Canadian Census.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36843341", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36843341", "title": "Ishvara Gita", "text": "Ishvara Gita\n\nThe Ishvara Gita (Devanagari: ईश्वर गीता, IAST: ) is a Sanskrit text composed in India. It contains the teachings of the god Shiva, also called Ishvara, and is influenced by the Samkhya and Yoga schools of Indian philosophy. Bhagavat Gita was influenced by the Shiva Gita which was much more ancient than the Bhagavat Gita. It makes up the first 11 chapters of the second section (uttara vibhaga) of the Kurma Purana.\n\nSome verses of the Bhagavad Gita are directly repeated from the Ishvara Gita but Ishvara Gita also contains many new themes, such as the worship of the linga and the idea that Shiva, not Krishna, is the ultimate god. The Ishvara Gita also shows the influence of the 8-fold (ashtanga) yoga of Patanjali, and of the Pashupata sect of Shaivism. Several commentaries on this text are available in manuscript form, including one by Vijnanabhiksu, a 16th-century Hindu polymath.\n\nThe Ishvara Gita has been translated into English, French and Italian in stand-alone form, and into English as part of a complete translation of the Kurma Purana.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3140575", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3140575", "title": "Islamic views on slavery", "text": "Islamic views on slavery\n\nIslamic views on slavery represent a complex and multifaceted body of Islamic thought, with various Islamic groups or thinkers espousing views on the matter which have been radically different throughout history. Slavery was a mainstay of life in pre-Islamic Arabia and surrounding lands. It was in this social milieu that Islam emerged, whence the Quran and the \"hadith\" (sayings of Muhammad) address slavery extensively, assuming its existence as part of society but viewing it as an exceptional condition and restricting its scope. Early Islamic dogma forbade enslavement of free members of Islamic society, including non-Muslims (\"dhimmis\"), and set out to improve conditions of human bondage. The sharīʿah (divine law) regarded as legal slaves only those non-Muslims who were imprisoned or bought beyond the borders of Islamic rule, or the sons and daughters of slaves already in captivity. In later classical Islamic law, the topic of slavery is covered at great length. Slaves, be they Muslim or those of any other religion, were equal to their fellow practitioners in religious issues.\n\nIn theory, slavery in Islamic law does not have a racial or color component, although this has not always been the case in practice. Slaves played various social and economic roles, from domestic worker to high-ranking positions in the government like Emir. Moreover, slaves were widely employed in irrigation, mining, pastoralism, and the army. Some rulers even relied on military and administrative slaves to such a degree that they seized power. In some cases, the treatment of slaves was so harsh that it led to uprisings, such as the Zanj Rebellion. However, this was an exception rather than the norm, as the vast majority of labor in the medieval Islamic world consisted of free, paid labour. For a variety of reasons, internal growth of the slave population was not enough to fulfill the demand in Muslim society. This resulted in massive importation, which involved enormous suffering and loss of life from the capture and transportation of slaves from non-Muslim lands.\n\nThe Quran provides for emancipation of a slave as a means of religious atonement for sins.\n\nThe Arab slave trade was most active in West Asia, North Africa, and Southeast Africa. In the early 20th century (post World War I), slavery was gradually outlawed and suppressed in Muslim lands, largely due to pressure exerted by Western nations such as Britain and France. For example, Saudi Arabia and Yemen only abolished slavery in 1962 under pressure from Britain; Oman followed suit in 1970, and Mauritania in 1905, 1981, and again in August 2007. However, slavery claiming the sanction of Islam is documented presently in the predominantly Islamic countries of Chad, Mauritania, Niger, Mali, and Sudan.\n\nMany early converts to Islam were the poor and former slaves. One notable example is Bilal ibn Rabah al-Habashi.\n\nSlavery was widely practiced in pre-Islamic Arabia, as well as in the rest of the ancient and early medieval world. The minority were white slaves of foreign extraction, likely brought in by Arab caravaners (or the product of Bedouin captures) stretching back to biblical times. Native Arab slaves had also existed, a prime example being Zayd ibn Harithah, later to become Muhammad's adopted son. Arab slaves, however, usually obtained as captives, were generally ransomed off amongst nomad tribes. The slave population increased by the custom of child abandonment (see also infanticide), and by the kidnapping, or, occasionally, the sale of small children. There is no conclusive evidence of the existence of enslavement for debt or the sale of children by their families; the late and rare accounts of such occurrences show them to be abnormal, Brunschvig states (According to Brockopp, debt slavery was persistent.) Free persons could sell their offspring, or even themselves, into slavery. Enslavement was also possible as a consequence of committing certain offenses against the law, as in the Roman Empire.\n\nTwo classes of slave existed: a purchased slave, and a slave born in the master's home. Over the latter the master had complete rights of ownership, though these slaves were unlikely to be sold or disposed of by the master. Female slaves were at times forced into prostitution for the benefit of their masters, in accordance with Near Eastern customs.\n\nThe historical accounts of the early years of Islam report that \"slaves of non-Muslim masters ... suffered brutal punishments. Sumayyah bint Khayyat is famous as the first martyr of Islam, having been killed with a spear by Abū Jahl when she refused to give up her faith. Abu Bakr freed Bilal when his master, Umayya ibn Khalaf, placed a heavy rock on his chest in an attempt to force his conversion.\"\n\nThe mainstream view is that the Quran accepts the institution of slavery. It may be noted that the word 'abd' (slave) is rarely used, being more commonly replaced by some periphrasis such as \"ma malakat aymanukum\" (\"that which your right hands own\"). However the meaning and translation of this term has been disputed. W.G. Clarence-Smith has highlighted the point of view of Ghulam Ahmed Pervez on this issue, who argued that the term is used in the past-tense in the Quran, thus signalling only those individuals who were already enslaved at the dawn of Islam. This slight change in tense is significant, as it allowed G.A. Parwez to argue that slavery was never compatible with the commandments of the Quran and is in fact outlawed by Quranic Law.\n\nThe mainstream view; however, is that the Qur'an recognizes the basic inequality between master and slave and the rights of the former over the latter. The historian Brunschvig states that from a spiritual perspective, \"the slave has the same value as the free man, and the same eternity is in store for his soul; in this earthly life, failing emancipation, there remains the fact of his inferior status, to which he must piously resign himself.\"\n\nAccording to Lewis, the Quran urges kindness to the slave and recommends their liberation by purchase or manumission. The freeing of slaves is recommended both for the expiation of sins and as an act of simple benevolence. It exhorts masters to allow slaves to earn or purchase their own freedom (manumission contracts).\"\n\nSlaves are mentioned in at least twenty-nine verses of the Qur'an, most of these are Medinan and refer to the legal status of slaves. The legal material on slavery in the Qur'an is largely restricted to manumission and sexual relations. According to Sikainga, the Qur'anic references to slavery as mainly contain \"broad and general propositions of an ethical nature rather than specific legal formulations.\"\n\nThe Quran accepts the distinction between slave and free as part of the natural order and uses this distinction as an example of God's grace, regarding this discrimination between human beings as in accordance with the divinely established order of things. \"The Qur'an, however, does not consider slaves to be mere chattel; their humanity is directly addressed in references to their beliefs, their desire for manumission and their feelings about being forced into prostitution. In one case, the Qur'an refers to master and slave with the same word, \"rajul\". Later interpreters presume slaves to be spiritual equals of free Muslims. For example, verse 4:25 urges believers to marry 'believing maids that your right hands own' and then states: \"The one of you is as the other,\" which the Jalaalayn interpret as \"You and they are equal in faith, so do not refrain from marrying them.\" The human aspect of slaves is further reinforced by reference to them as members of the private household, sometimes along with wives or children. The Prophet ordered slave-owners to address their slaves by such euphemistic terms as \"my boy\" and \"my girl\" stemmed from the belief that God, not their masters, was responsible for the slave's status.\n\nThere are many common features between the institution of slavery in the Quran and that of neighboring cultures. However, the Quranic institution had some unique new features. Bernard Lewis states that the Qur'anic legislation brought two major changes to ancient slavery which were to have far-reaching effects: presumption of freedom, and the ban on the enslavement of free persons except in strictly defined circumstances. According to Brockopp, the idea of using alms for the manumission of slaves appears to be unique to the Quran, assuming the traditional interpretation of verses and . Similarly, the practice of freeing slaves in atonement for certain sins appears to be introduced by the Quran (but compare Exod 21:26-7). The forced prostitution of female slaves, a Near Eastern custom of great antiquity, is condemned in the Quran. Murray Gordon notes that this ban is \"of no small significance.\" Brockopp writes: \"Other cultures limit a master's right to harm a slave but few exhort masters to treat their slaves kindly, and the placement of slaves in the same category as other weak members of society who deserve protection is unknown outside the Qur'an. The unique contribution of the Qur'an, then, is to be found in its emphasis on the place of slaves in society and society's responsibility toward the slave, perhaps the most progressive legislation on slavery in its time.\"\n\nAccording to Maurice Middleberg, \"Sura 90 in the Quran states that the righteous path involves 'the freeing of slaves.'\"\n\nThe most notable of Muhammad's slaves were: Safiyya bint Huyayy, whom he freed and married; Maria al-Qibtiyya, given to Muhammad by a Sassanid official, whom he freed and who may have become his wife; Sirin, Maria's sister, whom he freed and married to the poet Hassan ibn Thabit and Zayd ibn Harithah, whom Muhammad freed and adopted as a son.\n\nIn Islamic jurisprudence, slavery was an exceptional condition, with the general rule being a presumption of freedom (\"al-'asl huwa 'l-hurriya\" — \"The basic principle is liberty\") for a person if his or her origins were unknown. Lawful enslavement was restricted to two instances: capture in war (on the condition that the prisoner is not a Muslim), or birth in slavery. Islamic law did not recognize the classes of slave from pre-Islamic Arabia including those sold or given into slavery by themselves and others, and those indebted into slavery. Though a free Muslim could not be enslaved, conversion to Islam by a non-Muslim slave did not require that he or she then should be liberated. Slave status was not affected by conversion to Islam.\n\nIn the instance of illness it would be required for the slave to be looked after. Manumission is considered a meritorious act. Based on the Quranic verse (24:33), Islamic law permits a slave to ransom himself upon consent of his master through a contract known as \"mukataba\". Azizah Y. al-Hibri, a professor of Law specializing in Islamic jurisprudence, states that both the Qur'an and Hadith are repeatedly exhorting Muslims to treat the slaves well and that Muhammad showed this both in action and in words. Levy concurs, adding that \"cruelty to them was forbidden.\" Al-Hibri quotes the famous last speech of Muhammad and other hadiths emphasizing that all believers, whether free or enslaved, are siblings. Lewis explains, \"the humanitarian tendency of the Qur'an and the early caliphs in the Islamic empire, was to some extent counteracted by other influences,\" notably the practice of various conquered people and countries Muslims encountered, especially in provinces previously under Roman law. In spite of this, Lewis also states, \"Islamic practice still represented a vast improvement on that inherited from antiquity, from Rome, and from Byzantium.\" Murray Gordon writes: \"It was not surprising that Muhammad, who accepted the existing socio-political order, looked upon slavery as part of the natural order of things. His approach to what was already an age-old institution was reformist and not revolutionary. The Prophet had not in mind to bring about the abolition of slavery. Rather, his purpose was to improve the conditions of slaves by correcting abuses and appealing to the conscience of his followers to treat them humanely.\" The adoption of slaves as members of the family was common, according to Levy. If a slave was born and brought up in the master's household he was never sold, except in exceptional circumstances.\n\nIn Islamic law (Sharia), \"Ma malakat aymanukum\" is the term for slaves or captives of war. The purchase of female slaves for sex was lawful from the perspective of Islamic law, and this was the most common motive for the purchase of slaves throughout Islamic history.\n\nAl-Muminun 6 and Al-Maarij 30 both, in identical wording, draw a distinction between spouses and \"those whom one's right hands possess\", saying \" أَزْوَاجِهِمْ أَوْ مَا مَلَكَتْ أَيْمَانُهُمْ\" (literally, \"their spouses or what their right hands possess\"), while clarifying that sexual intercourse with either is permissible. Sayyid Abul Ala Maududi explains that \"two categories of women have been excluded from the general command of guarding the private parts: (a) wives, (b) women who are legally in one's possession\".\n\nSlave women were required mainly as concubines and menials. A Muslim slaveholder was entitled by law to the sexual enjoyment of his slave women. While free women might own male slaves, they had no such right. The property of a slave was owned by his or her master unless a contract of freedom of the slave had been entered into, which allowed the slave to earn money to purchase his or her freedom and similarly to pay bride wealth. The marriage of slaves required the consent of the owner. Under the Hanafi and Shafi'i schools of jurisprudence male slaves could marry two wives, but the Maliki permitted them to marry four wives like the free men. According to the Islamic law, a male slave could marry a free woman but this was discouraged in practice. Islam permits sexual relations between a male master and his female slave outside marriage. This is referred to in the Qur'an as \"ma malakat aymanukum\" or \"what your right hands possess\". There are some restrictions on the master; he may not co-habit with a female slave belonging to his wife, neither can he have relations with a female slave if she is co-owned, or already married.\n\nIn ancient Arabian custom, the child of a freeman by his slave was also a slave unless he was recognized and liberated by his father. In theory, the recognition by a master of his offspring by a slave woman was optional in Islamic society, and in the early period was often withheld. By the High Middle Ages it became normal and was unremarkable in a society where the sovereigns themselves were almost invariably the children of slave concubines. The mother receives the title of \"umm walad\" (\"lit\". mother of a child), which is an improvement in her status as she can no longer be sold. Among Sunnis, she is automatically freed upon her master's death, however for Shi'a, she is only freed if her child is still alive; her value is then deducted from this child's share of the inheritance. Lovejoy writes that as an \"umm walad\", they attained \"an intermediate position between slave and free\" pending their freedom, although they would sometimes be nominally freed as soon as they gave birth.\n\nThere is no limit on the number of concubines a master may possess. However, the general marital laws are to be observed, such as not having sexual relations with the sister of a female slave. In Islam, \"men are enjoined to marry free women in the first instance, but if they cannot afford the bridewealth for free women, they are told to marry slave women rather than engage in wrongful acts.\" One rationale given for recognition of concubinage in Islam is that \"it satisfied the sexual desire of the female slaves and thereby prevented the spread of immorality in the Muslim community.\" A slave master could have sex with his female slave only while she was not married. This attempt to require sexual exclusivity for female slaves was rare in antiquity, when female slaves generally had no claim to an exclusive sexual relationship. According to Sikainga, \"in reality, however, female slaves in many Muslim societies were prey for members of their owners' household, their neighbors, and their guests.\"\n\nIn Shiite jurisprudence it is unlawful for a master of a female slave to grant a third party the use of her for sexual relations. The Shiite scholar Shaykh al-Tusi stated:ولا يجوز إعارتها للاستمتاع بها لأن البضع لا يستباح بالإعارة\n\"It is not permissible to loan (the slave girl) for enjoyment purpose, because sexual intercourse cannot be legitimate through loaning\" and the Shiite scholars al-Muhaqiq al-Kurki, Allamah al-Hilli and Ali Asghar Merwarid made the following ruling: ولا تجوز استعارة الجواري للاستمتاع\n\"It is not permissible to loan the slave girl for the purpose of sexual intercourse\"\n\nUnder the legal doctrine of \"kafa'a\"(lit.\"efficiency\"), the purpose of which was to ensure that a man should be at least the social equal of the woman he marries, a freedman is not as good as the son of a freedman, and he in turn not as good as the grandson of a freedman. This principle is pursued up to three generations, after which all Muslims are deemed equally free. Lewis asserts that since kafa'a \"does not forbid unequal marriages\", it is in no sense a \"Muslim equivalent of Nuremberg Laws of Nazi Germany or the apartheid laws of South Africa. His purpose, he states, is not to try to set up a moral competition - to compare castration and apartheid as offenses against humanity.\"\n\nWithin Islamic jurisprudence, slaves were excluded from religious office and from any office involving jurisdiction over others. Freed slaves are able to occupy any office within the Islamic government, and instances of this in history include the Mamluk who ruled Egypt for almost 260 years and the eunuchs who have held military and administrative positions of note. With the permission of their owners they are able to marry. Annemarie Schimmel, a contemporary scholar on Islamic civilization, asserts that because the status of slaves under Islam could only be obtained through either being a prisoner of war (this was soon restricted only to infidels captured in a holy war) or born from slave parents, slavery would be theoretically abolished with the expansion of Islam. Fazlur Rahman agrees, stating that the Qur'anic acceptance of the institution of slavery on the legal plane was the only practical option available at the time of Muhammad since \"slavery was ingrained in the structure of society, and its overnight wholesale liquidation would have created problems which it would have been absolutely impossible to solve, and only a dreamer could have issued such a visionary statement.\" Islam's reforms stipulating the conditions of enslavement seriously limited the supply of new slaves. Murray Gordon does note: \"Muhammad took pains in urging the faithful to free their slaves as a way of expiating their sins. Some Muslim scholars have taken this mean that his true motive was to bring about a gradual elimination of slavery. An alternative argument is that by lending the moral authority of Islam to slavery, Muhammad assured its legitimacy. Thus, in lightening the fetter, he riveted it ever more firmly in place.\" In the early days of Islam, a plentiful supply of new slaves were brought due to rapid conquest and expansion. But as the frontiers were gradually stabilized, this supply dwindled to a mere trickle. The prisoners of later wars between Muslims and Christians were commonly ransomed or exchanged.\n\nAccording to Lewis, this reduction resulted in Arabs who wanted slaves having to look elsewhere to avoid the restrictions in the Qur'an, meaning an increase of importing of slaves from non-Muslim lands, primarily from Africa. These slaves suffered a high death toll. Patrick Manning states that Islamic legislations against the abuse of the slaves convincingly limited the extent of enslavement in Arabian Peninsula and to a lesser degree for the whole area of the whole Umayyad Caliphate where slavery had existed since the most ancient times. He however notes that with the passage of time and the extension of Islam, Islam by recognizing and codifying slavery seems to have done more to protect and expand slavery than the reverse.\n\nIn theory free-born Muslims could not be enslaved, and the only way that a non-Muslim could be enslaved was being captured in the course of holy war. (In early Islam, neither a Muslim nor a Christian or Jew could be enslaved.) Slavery was also perceived as a means of converting non-Muslims to Islam: A task of the masters was religious instruction. Conversion and assimilation into the society of the master didn't automatically lead to emancipation, though there was normally some guarantee of better treatment and was deemed a prerequisite for emancipation. The majority of Sunni authorities approved the manumission of all the \"People of the Book\". According to some jurists -especially among the Shi'a- only Muslim slaves should be liberated. In practice, traditional propagators of Islam in Africa often revealed a cautious attitude towards proselytizing because of its effect in reducing the potential reservoir of slaves.\n\n\"Morally as well as physically the slave is regarded in law as an inferior being,\" Levy writes. Under Islamic law, a slave possesses a composite quality of being both a person and a possession. The slave is entitled to receive sustenance from the master, which includes shelter, food, clothing, and medical attention. It is a requirement for this sustenance to be of the same standard generally found in the locality and it is also recommended for the slave to have the same standard of food and clothing as the master. If the master refuses to provide the required sustenance, the slave may complain to a judge, who may then penalize the master through sale of her or his goods as necessary for the slave's keep. If the master does not have sufficient wealth to facilitate this, she or he must either sell, hire out, or manumit the slave as ordered. Slaves also have the right to a period of rest during the hottest parts of the day during the summer.\n\nEvidence from slaves is rarely viable in a court of law. As slaves are regarded as inferior in Islamic law, death at the hands of a free man does not require that the latter be killed in retaliation. The killer must pay the slave's master compensation equivalent to the slave's value, as opposed to blood-money. At the same time, slaves themselves possess a lessened responsibility for their actions, and receive half the penalty required upon a free man. For example: where a free man would be subject to a hundred lashes due to pre-marital relations, a slave would be subject to only fifty. Slaves are allowed to marry only with the owner's consent. Jurists differ over how many wives a slave may possess, with the Hanafi and Shafi'i schools allowing them two, and the Maliki school allowing four. Slaves are not permitted to possess or inherit property, or conduct independent business, and may conduct financial dealings only as a representative of the master. Offices of authority are generally not permitted for slaves, though a slave may act as the leader (\"Imam\") in the congregational prayers, and he may also act as a subordinate officer in the governmental department of revenue. Masters may sell, bequeath, give away, pledge, hire out or compel them to earn money.\n\nBy the view of some madh'hab (but not others), a master may compel his/her slave(s) to marriage and determine the identity of their marriage partner(s)\n\nThe mahr that is given for marriage to a female slave is taken by her owner, whereas all other women possess it absolutely for themselves\n\nThe Qur'an and Hadith, the primary Islamic texts, make it a praiseworthy act for masters to set their slaves free. There are numerous ways in which a slave may become free. One way is through expiation for certain sins committed by the master, such as involuntary manslaughter or perjury. Other ways include emancipation through becoming an \"umm walad\", who is freed upon her master's death along with her children, or an independent act of piety by the master, as recommended by the Quran. It is also commendable to manumit a slave who demands his freedom and is considered worthy of it; however, Richard Francis Burton states in a footnote to the \"Tale of the Second Eunuch\", commenting on the proposed emancipation of a slave without employable skills, that \"Here the slave refuses to be set free and starve. For a master so to do without ample reasons is held disgraceful. I well remember the weeping and wailing throughout Sind when an order from Sir Charles Napier set free the negroes whom British philanthropy thus doomed to endure if not to die of hunger.\" Another method is the \"mukataba\" contract: Levy states that \"the slave may redeem himself if his master agrees and contracts to let him go on payment of a stipulated sum of money, which may be paid in two or more instalments, or on the giving of stipulated services or other consideration. If the consideration is a sum of money, the master must grant the slave the right to earn and to own property.\"\n\nIf the master makes a declaration of the slave's freedom, whether in jest or earnest, in the presence of the slave or another, then such a declaration becomes legally binding. Similarly, the master may promise manumission (verbally or in writing) that the slave is to be freed upon the former's death. Lastly, a slave is also freed automatically if she or he comes into the possession of a master who is directly related to her or him.\n\nGordon opines that the Quran in particular and Islamic jurisprudence in general have not placed a premium on manumission but held it out as one way for atonement of sin. He states that \"Manumission was only one of several virtuous observances that the pious could avail themselves of and was by no means the most important,\" noting that other options include reaffirming faith in God and giving food to the poor. He concludes that \"there was no contradiction between being a devout Muslim and a slave-owing one as well.\"\n\nThe abolition movement starting in the 19th century in England and later in other Western countries influenced the slavery in Muslim lands both in doctrine and in practice. One of the first religious decrees comes from the two highest dignitaries of the Hanafi and Maliki rites in the Ottoman Empire. These religious authorities declared that slavery is lawful in principle but it is regrettable in its consequences. They expressed two religious considerations in their support for abolition of slavery: \"the initial enslaving of the people concerned comes under suspicion of illegality by reason of the present-day expansion of Islam in their countries; masters no longer comply with the rules of good treatment which regulate their rights and shelter them from wrong-doing.\"\n\nAccording to Brunschvig, although the total abolition of slavery might seem a reprehensible innovation and contrary to the Qur'an and the practice of early Muslims, the realities of the modern world caused a \"discernible evolution in the thought of many educated Muslims before the end of the 19th century.\" These Muslims argued that Islam on the whole has \"bestowed an exceptionally favourable lot on the victims of slavery\" and that the institution of slavery is linked to the particular economic and social stage in which Islam originated. According to the influential thesis of Ameer Ali, Islam only tolerated slavery through temporary necessity and that its complete abolition was not possible at the time of Muhammad.\n\nAccording to Brockopp, some modern interpreters have accused the medieval interpreters of having subverted the Qur'an's demand for manumission contracts (see Mukataba). They have used the dramatic change in the institution of slavery in the 7th and 8th centuries to argue that the Qur'an would not have condoned the slaving practices common in Islamic history. Others have argued that the original intent of the Qur'an, when understood properly, was to abolish slavery altogether.\n\nThe idea that Islam only tolerated slavery due to necessity has to some extent found its way into the circle of the Ulema. It has been unable to gain support among the Wahhabis.\n\nEarlier in the 20th century, prior to the \"reopening\" of slavery by Salafi scholars like Shaykh al-Fawzan, Islamist authors declared slavery outdated without actually clearly affirming and promoting its abolition. This has caused at least one scholar (William Clarence-Smith) to bemoan the \"dogged refusal of Mawlana Mawdudi to give up on slavery\" and the notable \"evasions and silences of Muhammad Qutb\".\n\nSayyid Qutb, the scholar of the Islamist Muslim Brotherhood said in his exegesis (\"Tafsir\") of the Quran:\nAnd concerning slavery, that was when slavery was a world-wide structure and which was conducted amongst Muslims and their enemies in the form of enslaving of prisoners of war. And it was necessary for Islam to adopt a similar line of practise until the world devised a new code of practise during war other than enslavement. \n\nQutb's brother Muhammad Qutb contrasted sexual relations between Muslim slave-owners and their female slaves with (in his view), the widespread and depraved practice of casual consensual sex in contemporary Europe:\n\nIslam made it lawful for a master to have a number of slave-women captured in wars and enjoined that he alone may have sexual relations with them ... Europe abhors this law but at the same gladly allows that most odious form of animalism according to which a man may have illicit relations with any girl coming across him on his way to gratify his animal passions.\n\nAbul A'la Maududi of Jamaat-e-Islami has said: Islam has clearly and categorically forbidden the primitive practice of capturing a free man, to make him a slave or to sell him into slavery. On this point the clear and unequivocal words of Muhammad are as follows:\"There are three categories of people against whom I shall myself be a plaintiff on the Day of Judgement. Of these three, one is he who enslaves a free man, then sells him and eats this money\" (al-Bukhari and Ibn Majjah). The words of this Tradition of the Prophet are also general, they have not been qualified or made applicable to a particular nation, race, country or followers of a particular religion. ... After this the only form of slavery which was left in Islamic society was the prisoners of war, who were captured on the battlefield. These prisoners of war were retained by the Muslim Government until their government agreed to receive them back in exchange for Muslim soldiers captured by them ... \nTaqiuddin al-Nabhani, a shariah judge and founder of Hizb ut-Tahrir movement, gives the following explanation:\nWhen Islam came, for the situations where people were taken into slavery (e.g. debt), Islam imposed Shari’ah solutions to those situations other than slavery. ... It (Islam) made the existing slave and owner form a business contract, based upon the freedom, not upon slavery ... As for the situation of war, ... it clarified the rule of the captive in that either they are favoured by releasing without any exchange, or they are ransomed for money or exchanged for Muslims or non-Muslim citizens of the Caliphate. The website of the organization stresses that because sharia historically was responding to a contract, not the institution of slavery, a future Khilafah could not re-introduce slavery.\n\nWhile prominent clerics of Twelver Shia Islam have joined in declarations against contemporary slavery, \nat least one powerful Shi'a Islamist ayatollah (Mohammad-Taqi Mesbah-Yazdi, a member of Iran's Assembly of Experts, \nthe body responsible for choosing the Supreme Leader of Iran) has made several statements declaring the permissibility of slavery in modern times. \nIn a 2006 interview he stated, \nToday, too, if there's a war between us and the infidels, we'll take slaves. The ruling on slavery hasn't expired and is eternal. We'll take slaves and we'll bring them to the world of Islam and have them stay with Muslims. We'll guide them, make them Muslims and then return them to their countries.\nIn response to the Nigerian extremist group Boko Haram's Quranic justification for kidnapping and enslaving people, and ISIL's religious justification for enslaving Yazidi women as spoils of war as claimed in their digital magazine \"Dabiq\", the 126 Islamic scholars from around the Muslim world, in late September 2014, signed an open letter to the Islamic State's leader Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi, rejecting his group's interpretations of the Qur'an and hadith to justify its actions. The letter accuses the group of instigating fitna – sedition – by instituting slavery under its rule in contravention of the anti-slavery consensus of the Islamic scholarly community.\n\nIn recent years, according to some scholars, there has been a \"reopening\" of the issue of slavery by some conservative Salafi Islamic scholars after its \"closing\" earlier in the 20th century when Muslim countries banned slavery and \"most Muslim scholars\" found the practice \"inconsistent with Qur'anic morality.\"\n\nA controversial high-level Saudi jurist, Shaykh Saleh Al-Fawzan, said in a lecture, \"Slavery is a part of Islam. Slavery is part of jihad, and jihad will remain as long there is Islam.\"\nHe further dismissed Muslim writers who maintained otherwise as ignorant and \"blind followers\". At the time of the fatwa, al-Fawzan was a member of the Senior Council of Clerics, Saudi Arabia's highest religious body, a member of the Council of Religious Edicts and Research, the Imam of Prince Mitaeb Mosque in Riyadh, and a professor at Imam Mohamed Bin Saud Islamic University, the main Wahhabi center of learning in the country. Another prominent Saudi cleric, Saad Al-Buraik has urged Palestinians to enslave women of \"the Jews\".\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29657299", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29657299", "title": "Jamyi Witch hiring controversy", "text": "Jamyi Witch hiring controversy\n\nIn 2001–2002 several Republican state representatives in Wisconsin objected to the hiring of Jamyi Witch, a Wiccan, as a prison chaplain. \nThe objection to the hiring was led by Michael Huebsch and later joined by Scott Walker who was then a state representative.\n\nIn December 2001, Mike Huebsch began leading efforts to block the funding for Witch's $32,500-a-year position. He stated taxpayers \"shouldn't be forced to accept this hocus-pocus.\" The legislators had learned that Wisconsin Department of Corrections had recently hired Rev. Jamyi Witch as a prison chaplain at the Waupun Correctional Institution in Waupun, Wisconsin. Witch, who had volunteered for two years as a chaplain and had an extensive knowledge of alternative religions, had competed against nine other candidates for the civil service position and was hired as the most qualified candidate for the $32,500 per year job.\n\nThe chaplain was a practicing Wiccan and had, in fact, changed her last name to Witch in honor of her chosen religion.\n\nHuebsch and Walker objected publicly on the basis of her religion to the chaplain’s hiring, saying: \"Witch's hiring raises both personal and political concerns. Not only does she practice a different religion than most of the inmates – she practices a religion that actually offends people of many other faiths, including Christians, Muslims and Jews.\"\n\nHuebsch and Walker threatened to launch a government investigation of the chaplain’s hiring, \"Taxpayers shouldn't be forced to accept this hocus-pocus,\" Huebsch stated. Huebsch proposed to delete the state appropriation which funded Witch's position, even though in the past he had repeatedly advocated increasing state funding for prison chaplains.\n\nAfter several weeks of unwanted publicity, the chaplain began to receive calls and messages including a handful of death threats and reported that on one day alone she had received 432 emails and 76 phone messages at her home. She said the majority of the messages were strongly supportive.\n\nWalker and Huebsch, who had said they would draft legislation to prevent similar hirings by the state of Wisconsin, were ultimately unsuccessful in their efforts to terminate the employment of Witch, who was represented by the Wisconsin State Employees Union, founding body of the American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees.\nWitch and the prison's only Muslim chaplain were subsequently excluded from the longstanding Waupun Clergy Association, which declared that it was open only to Christians.\n\nIn 2011, Witch was taken hostage by an inmate who barricaded himself in her office. The inmate alleged that Witch masterminded the hostage crisis in order to get a transfer to another prison. He claimed that Witch met with him on a prior occasion to plan this hostage situation, though at the time the accuser claims the conspiracy took place, Witch was able to show she was not present due to medical leave. The State charged Witch with multiple criminal offenses, including sexual assault as the inmate claimed that she complied with performing a forced sexual act during the hostage situation. Prosecutors dropped the charges in August 2013 due to inconsistencies in the accuser's claims. Witch stated that the charges should have never been filed, and that she plans to file suit against the department of corrections and other involved agencies.\n"}
{"id": "59112212", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59112212", "title": "Jebel Dosha", "text": "Jebel Dosha\n\nJebel Dosha is a sandstone promontory right beside the Nile, on the western river bank between Soleb and Sedeinga in Northern State in Sudan. It features a rock-cut chapel of Thutmose III, similar to the contemporary Temple of Ellesyia as well as several stelae and rock inscriptions of New Kingdom date.\n\nThe rock-cut chapel, which overlooks the Nile, contains partly lost inscriptions and wall-decoration of Thutmose III. In the back wall of the chapel there are three largely disfigured seated statues.\n\nIn the early Ramesside period several stelae, mostly commissioned by the Viceroy of Kush Amenemopet, were added. One of the stelae shows Seti I making an offering to the gods Khnum, Satet and Anket; another, done in sunk relief, shows a kneeling Amenemopet offering to a lunar god and to the goddess Satet.\nSeveral groups of striding figures are carved into the jebel rock.\n"}
{"id": "12301013", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12301013", "title": "Journey to Ixtlan", "text": "Journey to Ixtlan\n\nJourney to Ixtlan is the third book by Carlos Castaneda, published as a work of non-fiction by Simon & Schuster in 1972. It is about an alleged apprenticeship to the Yaqui \"shaman,\" Don Juan.\n\nThe title of this book is taken from an allegory that is recounted to Castaneda by his \"benefactor\" who is known to Carlos as Don Genaro ( Genaro Flores ), a close friend of his teacher don Juan Matus. \"Ixtlan\" turns out to be a metaphorical hometown ( or Place / Position of Being ) to which the \"sorcerer\" or warrior or man of knowledge is drawn to return, trying to get home. After the work of \"stopping\", his changed perspective leaves him little in common with ordinary people, who now seem no more substantial to him than \"phantoms.\" The point of the story is that a man of knowledge, or sorcerer, is a changed being, or a Human closer to his true state of Being, and for that reason he can never truly go \"home\" to his old lifestyle again.\n\nIn \"Journey to Ixtlan\" Castaneda essentially reevaluates the teachings up to that point. He discusses information that was apparently missing from the first two books regarding stopping the world which previously he had only regarded as a metaphor.\n\nHe also finds that psychotropic plants, knowledge of which was a significant part of his apprenticeship to Yaqui shaman don Juan Matus, are not as important in the world view as he had previously thought. In the introduction he writes:\n\nIn the book don Juan takes Carlos on these various degrees of apprenticeship, in response to what he believes are signals from the phenomenological world, \"The decision as to who can be a warrior and who can only be a hunter is not up to us. That decision is in the realm of the powers that guide men.\"\n\nThe book shows a progression between different states of learning, from hunter, to warrior, to man of knowledge or sorcerer, the difference said to be one of skill level and the type of thing hunted, \"... a warrior is an impeccable hunter that hunts power. If he succeeds in his hunting he becomes a man of knowledge.\"\n\nThroughout the book Castaneda portrays himself as skeptical and reserved in his explanations of the phenomena at hand, but by the end of the book Castaneda's rationalist worldview is seen to be breaking down in the face of an onslaught of experiences that he is unable to explain logically.\n\n"}
{"id": "43783941", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43783941", "title": "Kwan Yin Chan Lin", "text": "Kwan Yin Chan Lin\n\nKwan Yin Chan Lin () is Buddhist zen centres in Singapore and Malaysia. The organization was originally set up by Venerable Chi Boon (释继闻法师) in 1991. The present Main KYCL Zen Building are located at Geylang, Singapore, KYCL International Zen Centre at Pengerang, Desaru and Fu Hui Yuan at Muar (Inaugurate in 2018) in Johor, Malaysia.\n\nThe Kwan Yin Chan Lin Zen Centre was founded in 1991 by Venerable Chi Boon with Venerable Chuk Mor (竺摩长老), Seung Sahn Dae Soen Sa Nim （崇山大禅师）and Harada Tangen Roshi （原田湛玄禅师）being the spiritual teacher. Venerable Chi Boon received the ‘inka’ as Zen Guiding Teacher or Ji Do Bop Sa (指导法师）on 8 November 1998 from Seung Sahn, as an acknowledgment of accomplishment in Zen practice and authorization in teaching Kwan Um School of Zen's teaching style.. KYCL is the only Korean Buddhism Kong-an Zen practice （公案禅）monastery or centre in Singapore. \nRegular events at the centre include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35788186", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35788186", "title": "List of mosques in the United Arab Emirates", "text": "List of mosques in the United Arab Emirates\n\nThis is a list of mosques in the United Arab Emirates.\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "18701816", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18701816", "title": "List of mosques in the United Kingdom", "text": "List of mosques in the United Kingdom\n\nThis is an incomplete list of mosques in the United Kingdom listed by regions in Scotland, England and Wales.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16830713", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16830713", "title": "List of universities and colleges affiliated with the Christian churches and churches of Christ", "text": "List of universities and colleges affiliated with the Christian churches and churches of Christ\n\nA list of universities and colleges affiliated with the Christian churches and churches of Christ, part of the Restoration Movement.\n"}
{"id": "1592263", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1592263", "title": "Lists of Maraji", "text": "Lists of Maraji\n\nMarja' are the supreme legal authority for twelver Shia Muslims. The following table contains lists of Maraji.\n\n"}
{"id": "584263", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=584263", "title": "Mary Sue Hubbard", "text": "Mary Sue Hubbard\n\nMary Sue Hubbard (née Whipp; June 17, 1931 – November 25, 2002) was the third wife of L. Ron Hubbard, from 1952 until his death in 1986. She was a leading figure in Scientology for much of her life. The Hubbards had four children; Diana (born 1952), Quentin (born 1954), Suzette (born 1955), and Arthur (born 1958).\n\nShe became involved in Hubbard's Dianetics in 1952, while still a student at the University of Texas at Austin, becoming a Dianetics auditor. She soon became involved in a relationship with Hubbard and married him in March 1952. She accompanied her husband to Phoenix, Arizona, where they established the Hubbard Association of Scientologists – the forerunner of the Church of Scientology, which was itself founded in 1953. She was credited with helping to coin the word \"Scientology\". She played a leading role in the management of the Church of Scientology, rising to become the head of the Church's Guardian's Office (GO). In August 1978, she was indicted by the United States government on charges of conspiracy relating to illegal covert operations mounted by the Guardian's Office against government agencies. She was convicted in December 1979 and was sentenced to five years' imprisonment and the payment of a $10,000 fine. She was forced to resign her post in July 1981 and served a year in prison from January 1983, after exhausting her appeals against her conviction. In the late 1990s, she fell ill with breast cancer and died in 2002.\n\nMary Sue Whipp was born in Rockdale, Texas, to Harry and Mary Catherine (née Hill) Whipp. She grew up in Houston, where she attended Rice University for a year before moving on to the University of Texas at Austin, from which she graduated as a Bachelor of Arts. She originally intended to work in petroleum research, but a friend persuaded her to travel with him to Wichita, Kansas, in mid-1951 to take a Dianetics course at the Hubbard Dianetic Foundation. She soon began an affair with Hubbard, who had just been divorced from his second wife Sara, and moved in with him within only a few weeks of arriving in Wichita. She obtained a Hubbard Dianetic Auditor's Certificate and joined the Foundation's staff.\n\nShe became pregnant in February 1952 and married Hubbard the next month. By this time the Foundation had filed for bankruptcy, and Hubbard's erstwhile backer, Don Purcell, was left to deal with its substantial debts. A bitter dispute broke out between the men over the ownership of the Foundation's remaining assets, with Hubbard resigning to start a rival \"Hubbard College\" on the other side of Wichita. Mary Sue was given partial responsibility for running the new Dianetics establishment. After six weeks of operation it was replaced in April 1952 by the Hubbard Association of Scientologists, established in Phoenix, Arizona to promote Hubbard's newly announced \"science of certainty\". \n\nThe Hubbards traveled to England in September 1952 when Mary Sue was eight months pregnant. According to the Church of Scientology, the reason for the trip was that \"amid the constant violence of the turncoat Don J. Purcell of Wichita and his suits which attempted to seize Scientology, Mary Sue became ill and to save her life, Ron took her to England where several Dianetic groups had asked him to form an organization.\" Russell Miller gives a different explanation: \"Hubbard wanted to go to London to establish his control over the small Dianetics group which had formed there spontaneously and Mary Sue insisted on accompanying him.\" Three weeks later, on September 24, 1952, she gave birth to her first child, Diana Meredith de Wolfe Hubbard. The Hubbards returned to the United States in November when their visa expired and moved into an apartment in Philadelphia.\n\nThey went back to London in December on a fresh visa and stayed there until the end of May 1953, before departing for an extended holiday in Spain. In October 1953 they returned to the US where Hubbard gave a series of lectures in Camden, New Jersey and established the first Church of Scientology. By this time, Mary Sue was well advanced with her second pregnancy and remained largely confined to a rented house at Medford Lakes, New Jersey. They traveled to Phoenix for Christmas 1953 and it was there on January 6, 1954 that Mary Sue gave birth to her second child, Geoffrey Quentin McCaully Hubbard.\n\nThe Hubbards lived at a house on Tatum Boulevard (now 5501 North 44th Street) on the slopes of Camelback Mountain in Phoenix for the remainder of 1954. By this time, Mary Sue had become a key figure within the nascent Scientology movement. Although Hubbard himself was much admired by Scientologists, his wife was said to be much less popular. Russell Miller notes:\n\nA family friend, Ray Kemp, later recalled: \"their relationship seemed OK, but there never seemed to be a lot of love between them. She was not the affectionate type, she was more efficient than affectionate. They used to have fierce husband and wife domestic arguments.\" Joan Vidal, a friend of the sculptor Edward Harris, who was commissioned by Hubbard to create a bust of him, described Mary Sue as \"a rather drab, mousy, nothing sort of person, quite a bit younger than him.\" Ken Urquhart, who worked for the Hubbards as their butler in the 1960s, commented that Mary Sue \"could be very sweet and loving, but also very cold.\" Cyril Vosper, one of the Saint Hill staff at the time, noted the differing impressions left by the Hubbards: \"I always had great warmth and admiration for Ron – he was a remarkable individual, a constant source of new information and ideas – but I thought Mary Sue was an exceedingly nasty person. She was a bitch.\"\nMary Sue became pregnant again four months after Quentin's birth and on February 13, 1955, in Washington, D.C., she gave birth to her second daughter, Mary Suzette Rochelle Hubbard. Following the birth, the Hubbards moved into a house in Silver Spring, Maryland. A \"Founding Church of Scientology\" was established in Washington, D.C. and Mary Sue became its first Academy Supervisor.\n\nThe Hubbards returned again to London at the end of September 1955, where they took over the day-to-day management of the Hubbard Association of Scientologists International. They remained there until 1957, when Hubbard returned to lecture at the Academy of Scientology in Washington, D.C., with Mary Sue and the children following later. By this time Mary Sue was pregnant for a fourth time and gave birth to her final child, Arthur Ronald Conway Hubbard, on June 6, 1958.\n\nA change in the visa regime in the UK enabled foreigners to remain indefinitely if they had sufficient means to support themselves. The Hubbards moved back to London in February 1959, settling for a while in Golders Green. Not long afterwards Hubbard bought Saint Hill Manor at Saint Hill Green, near East Grinstead, West Sussex. The manor, a country house formerly owned by Sawai Man Singh II, the Maharajah of Jaipur, became both the new home of the Hubbards and the world headquarters of Scientology.\n\nThe Hubbards continued to carry out auditing of each other and in February 1960 Mary Sue wrote to a friend to inform her that her husband had discovered that she had been the writer D.H. Lawrence in a past life. She intended to make use of this discovery by writing a book that would be \"completely anti-Christ\". The protagonist, \"a bastard child\", would be the son of the three most virile men in the town (a satire of the Holy Trinity). The mother had slept with all three men on the same night but as she did not know which had fathered the child, had \"thereupon decided to call him Ali, son of ----, son of ----, and son of ---- which impressed the local inhabitants and created a stir throughout the country.\"\n\nBy this time, Mary Sue was working as the chief course supervisor at Saint Hill Manor. The Hubbards' relationship was unconventional, as their butler, Ken Urquhart, later recalled: \"Neither Ron nor Mary Sue lived the way one might have expected in a house like that. They spent most of their time working; there was very little socializing. They would go to bed very late, usually in the small hours of the morning, and get up in the early afternoon ... [Mary Sue] had a separate bedroom, but usually had breakfast with him – scrambled eggs, sausages, mushrooms and tomatoes. After breakfast he would go into his office and I would rarely see him again until six-thirty when I had to have the table laid for dinner. At six-twenty-five I would go into his office with a jacket for him to wear to table and after dinner they would spend an hour or so watching television with the children and then he and Mary Sue would return to work in their separate offices.\"\n\nOn January 26, 1967, Mary Sue was confirmed as a Scientology \"Clear\", a somewhat elite rank at that time. Her achievement was commemorated in a special tribute edition of the Scientology newspaper \"The Auditor\", titled simply: \"Mary Sue Hubbard – Clear #208\". In it, she thanked her husband \"for having given the most precious gifts of freedom and true beingness to me and my fellow man. Without him, none of this would have been possible; and so to Ron goes my everlasting gratitude for having provided for all of us the road to Clear.\"\n\nDuring the late 1960s, Scientology was faced by an increasingly hostile media and intensifying government scrutiny in a number of countries, notably Australia, New Zealand, South Africa, the United Kingdom, and the United States. Hubbard decided to take to the high seas in a bid to liberate Scientology from the attentions of hostile governments. On November 22, 1966, the Hubbard Explorational Company Limited was formed with Hubbard and Mary Sue as directors – Hubbard being described as expedition supervisor and Mary Sue as company secretary. Several ships were purchased to serve as the quarters of the newly created \"Sea Org\". The flagship of the Scientology fleet was the 3,280 ton vessel – accidentally renamed the \"Royal Scotman\" due to a clerical error, a former cattle ferry on the Irish Sea run.\n\nAfter the vessel had been renovated by Scientologists, Mary Sue and the children moved into the upper-deck accommodation in November 1968. The difference in the quality of living conditions between the Hubbards and the crew was stark:\n\nIn April 1969, Mary Sue was promoted by Hubbard to serve as the captain of the \"Royal Scotman\" and ordered to cruise up and down the coast of Spain to train the vessel's inexperienced crew of Scientologists, who had made a string of mistakes that infuriated Hubbard. The trip had the air of a punishment detail and was dubbed the \"liability cruise\"; conditions on board were reportedly appalling. According to Russell Miller, \"The crew worked to the point of exhaustion, the food was meager and no one was allowed to wash or change their clothes. Mary Sue enforced the rules rigidly but shared the privations, and was scrupulously fair and popular.\" The entire crew was forced to wear gray rags to symbolize their demotion; it was said that even Mary Sue's corgi dog, Vixie, had a gray rag tied around her neck. The \"liability cruise\" ended in June 1969. The \"Royal Scotman\" was later renamed the \"Apollo\".\n\nApart from captaining the \"Royal Scotman\" for a period, Mary Sue's duties included managing the sprawling empire of the Guardian's Office agency within the Church of Scientology and serving as the chair of an executive group known variously as the Commodore's Staff Aides, the Aides Council, and the International Board of Scientology Organizations. This body was responsible for overseeing each of the seven organizational subdivisions of the Church of Scientology. She played a central role in the financial management of the Church of Scientology's two principal corporations, the Church of Scientology of California and the United Kingdom Church of Scientology. She was a sole signatory to the Church of Scientology's trust accounts and was also a director of the Operation Transport Corporation (OTC), a company established in 1968 that served as a conduit for cash transfers from the Church of Scientology to L. Ron Hubbard personally; it was characterized by US Tax Court as a \"sham corporation\" whose role was the enrichment of the Hubbards. She personally handled large quantities of cash on Hubbard's behalf. In the summer of 1972, Hubbard ordered that around $2 million in cash be transferred from OTC bank accounts in Switzerland to the \"Apollo\", where it was stored for the next three years in a locked file cabinet to which Mary Sue Hubbard had the only set of keys. Her salary was relatively modest, amounting to $30,430 ($150,732 in 2007 prices) between 1970 and 1972, though she did also benefit from tens of thousands of dollars a year in living expenses paid for by the Church of Scientology.\n\nThe Hubbards moved ashore in March 1972 after three years traveling aboard their ship from port to port in the Mediterranean. They set up home in a villa on the outskirts of the Moroccan city of Tangier. Their sojourn in Morocco ended abruptly in December 1972 when it became clear that the Church of Scientology was about to be indicted in France for fraud, and that Hubbard himself was potentially at risk of being extradited to appear in court if the case went to trial. Hubbard returned to the United States, living under a false name in New York City while Mary Sue and the children remained aboard the \"Apollo\". They were reunited in September 1973, when the possibility of extradition had passed. When it became known in October 1974 that the FBI wished to interview Hubbard, Mary Sue persuaded her husband to avoid going ashore in the United States and the \"Apollo\" spent the next year sailing from port to port in the Caribbean.\n\nThe Scientology fleet was finally disbanded in 1975, when Hubbard decided to move ashore and establish a \"land base\" in Florida. He and Mary Sue moved initially to Daytona Beach, Florida in August 1975. They lived there incognito for a few months before moving into an apartment in Dunedin on the west coast of Florida, a few miles north of the town of Clearwater where a Scientology front company had bought the old Fort Harrison Hotel to serve as Scientology's new headquarters. The presence of the Hubbards was meant to be a secret, but in January 1976 he was recognized by a science fiction fan while on a shopping trip. Fearing arrest, he fled to Washington, D.C. with a handful of aides while Mary Sue was left behind in Florida continuing her day-to-day management activities.\n\nIn October 1976, Hubbard's eldest son by Mary Sue, Quentin, died by suicide at the age of 22. Mary Sue was grief-stricken, though she later attempted to persuade friends that Quentin had died from encephalitis. Her husband's reaction was one of fury, blaming Quentin for – in his eyes – letting him down.\n\nOn July 8, 1977, 134 agents of the Federal Bureau of Investigation simultaneously stormed the Church of Scientology's offices in Washington, D.C. and Los Angeles, seizing nearly 50,000 documents and other evidence. The raids were in response to the federal government's discovery that the Church of Scientology had been carrying out a secret and highly illegal \"dirty tricks\" campaign against government agencies, individuals, and institutions deemed to be enemies of Scientology. A year later, on August 15, 1978, Mary Sue Hubbard was indicted by a grand jury, accused of masterminding a conspiracy against the government in her capacity as head of the Church's Guardian's Office.\n\nMary Sue was appointed by her husband as Guardian (later Controller) of the Guardian's Office (GO) in March 1966. Established in response to the battering that Scientology was receiving at the time from governments and the media, the GO was tasked with tackling any \"threat of great importance\" to Scientology. This work took a variety of forms, including public relations, legal actions, and the gathering of \"intelligence\" on perceived enemies. In the UK alone, it issued hundreds of writs against the media for publishing negative reports on Scientology. It carried out an international campaign against psychiatry, Interpol, the US Internal Revenue Service (IRS) and various other government agencies. Its eventual downfall was to result from the use of illegal methods, ordered and authorized by Mary Sue, to further its campaign.\n\nMary Sue was promoted to the position of Controller \"for life\" of the Guardian's Office in January 1969, with one of her subordinates, Jane Kember, being appointed to Mary Sue's old post of Guardian. Mary Sue continued to manage the GO from her various residences aboard the \"Apollo\", and the villa in Tangier. At the order of both of the Hubbards, the GO ran scores of operations against Scientology's enemies. The targets were not just external enemies but dissident Scientologists; in 1969, Mary Sue wrote an order directing the GO to cull information from the confessional folders of Scientologists, breaking a rule of confidence that was supposedly sacrosanct. L. Ron Hubbard was said to have been fully aware of the GO's actions; the US government would later declare him to be an \"unindicted co-conspirator\" in the GO's illegal activities.\n\nOne of their primary targets was the IRS, with which Scientology was engaged in a bitter battle over tax exemptions. As part of a wider strategy codenamed Operation Snow White, the GO succeeded in infiltrating a Scientologist into the IRS to steal files about the government's litigation strategy against Scientology. Mary Sue was closely involved in the strategy; a letter written by her, approving the thefts, was later used in evidence against her. In March 1976, she approved an illegal plan to obtain \"non-FOI data\" from the government, meaning classified documents not available through the Freedom of Information Act. The GO's agent in the IRS, Michael Meisner, was ordered to obtain all files concerning L. Ron and Mary Sue Hubbard from the IRS Office of International Operations, which he succeeded in infiltrating.\n\nThe espionage continued for another three months before Meisner's luck ran out and he was caught in June 1976. Although he bluffed it out initially, a warrant was issued for his arrest in August. The situation was potentially disastrous for the GO and caused panic among the leadership. Mary Sue conspired with her subordinates to concoct alibis for Meisner and work out how to keep him out of the hands of the authorities, keeping him in hiding under a series of false identities. Meisner became increasingly reluctant to cooperate with his GO handlers and in April 1977 he was forcibly taken by GO staff to a new hiding place. He succeeded in escaping in May and turned himself in to the FBI, making a full confession. The raids of July 1977 were the result.\n\nThe case eventually came to trial in September 1979, following months of delay occasioned by a fierce rear-guard action by the Church of Scientology's lawyers. On October 8, a deal was struck between the government and the Church that the nine defendants – including Mary Sue – would each plead guilty to one charge of conspiracy if they agreed to sign a written stipulation by the government (essentially a public confession) of what they had done, thus avoiding a lengthy trial. They were formally found guilty on October 26, 1979. Mary Sue and two others received the heaviest penalties, a five-year prison sentence and a $10,000 fine. The other five defendants received lesser sentences and fines. Her husband avoided being indicted but was extremely concerned that Mary Sue would betray him. One of his aides, David Mayo, was dispatched by Hubbard to suggest that Mary Sue might consider a divorce. According to Mayo:\n\nDespite her conviction, Mary Sue remained in her post as Controller of the Guardian's Office (GO). There was no shortage of work for her to do; further legal difficulties were anticipated, as there was a New York grand jury investigating Operation Freakout, the GO's campaign against New York author Paulette Cooper, and a Florida grand jury looking into Scientology's activities in Clearwater. Around the end of February 1980, Ron Hubbard went into hiding and remained in seclusion in the small town of Creston, California, for the remaining six years of his life. Mary Sue, who had last met with her husband a few months before his disappearance, never saw or heard from him again.\n\nHubbard nonetheless remained active in the management of Scientology. The criminal conviction of the GO's top executives triggered a lengthy power struggle at the top of the Church of Scientology, which would lead eventually to Mary Sue being forced into retirement. Under his doctrine he believed that \"mistakes do not just happen, somebody causes them, always\". A disaster on the scale of the GO criminal case was clearly the result of the activities of someone hostile to Scientology – a Suppressive Person – operating within the GO. He issued an internal directive in 1979 asserting that major failures must result from the presence of multiple Suppressives, who would need to be rooted out along with their \"connections\". The downfall of the GO led Hubbard to distrust it, believing it to be riddled with Suppressives; he severed his communications with it and put his reliance instead on the Commodore's Messenger Organization (CMO), a group which he had formed in 1968 whose purpose was to relay messages to and from church staff as Ron's personal representatives. The Messengers, who were mostly in their teens and early twenties, became Hubbard's sole means of communication with the Church.\n\nIn 1981, the \"All Clear Unit\" was established within the CMO, tasked with the purpose of making it \"All Clear\" for Hubbard to come out of hiding. One of its principal figures was David Miscavige, a 21-year-old Messenger who had worked as a cameraman for Hubbard. In May 1981, he met with Mary Sue to tell her that her position as Controller of the Guardian's Office was untenable. She reacted angrily; in a 1992 trial in Canada, Miscavige told the court that she had called him \"some pretty nasty names\" and threatened him with a large ashtray held close to his face, but she had eventually agreed to step down. She subsequently changed her mind, believing that she had been tricked, and wrote to her husband to complain but received no response. Numerous other Guardian's Office personnel were purged as well.\n\nIn July 1981, all remaining GO staff were ordered to join the Sea Org, which would thus secure the CMO's control of the Guardian's Office, and the current Guardian, Jane Kember – who was one of those convicted on conspiracy charges – was to be removed. Mary Sue strongly opposed these changes and reappointed herself Controller, rescinding the CMO's permission to investigate the GO. CMO staff investigating the GO were physically expelled from the Church of Scientology's Los Angeles headquarters, and the Controller's files were guarded day and night. Mary Sue attempted to contact her husband to rescind the CMO's takeover bid but failed, and admitted defeat when the Messengers produced an undated dispatch from Hubbard instructing the GO to be put under the CMO when its senior executives went to prison. She stood down again, being replaced by a South African Scientologist named Gordon Cook, and Jane Kember was replaced by David Gaiman, a British Scientologist.\n\nMiscavige provided a first-hand account of these events, in an affidavit submitted in a case heard in 1994 in California, \"Church of Scientology International vs. Steven Fishman and Uwe Geertz\". He stated:\n\nSpeaking several years later to the \"St. Petersburg Times\" newspaper, Miscavige commented:\n\nI knew if it was going to be a physical takeover we're going to lose because they had a couple thousand staff and we (the \"messengers\") had about 50. That is the amazing part about it.\n\nAccording to the Church of Scientology, Hubbard himself did not find out about Mary Sue's resignation until five months later.\n\nThe convictions of Mary Sue Hubbard and the other GO staff executives were upheld by a federal appeals court in October 1981, and in November seven of those convicted dropped their appeals – but not Mary Sue, who continued to fight the charges. She lost her final appeal in April 1982 and was ordered to begin a prison term in January 1983. The original sentence of five years imprisonment was not carried out, and the court ordered a study of her claimed medical problems, before eventually replacing her sentence with a four-year term of imprisonment, with parole set at 40 months. She was sent to the federal prison in Lexington, Kentucky, to serve her sentence, though in the end, she was released after only a year of imprisonment.\n\nAfter her resignation from the GO, Mary Sue Hubbard ceased to have any involvement in the management of the Church of Scientology. She did, however, resurface on a few occasions during the remaining years of her life. In 1984 she acted as an \"intervenor\" in the Church of Scientology of California's lawsuit against Gerry Armstrong. He had worked as an archivist for the Church of Scientology, gathering source material for a planned biography of L. Ron Hubbard. He became disillusioned with Scientology and left the Church, taking with him copies of biographical material, including Hubbard's letters to Mary Sue over the years. The Church sued in 1982 and Mary Sue joined the suit, charging that Armstrong had committed an \"invasion of privacy\". When the case came to trial in May 1984, she told the Superior Court of Los Angeles County that she had been \"mentally raped\" and \"emotionally distressed\" knowing that others had seen the documents. She told the court that she had not seen her husband since January 1980, \"but I've written him personal letters ... but I don't believe he's getting them\" as he had not replied to them. In June 1984, Judge Paul G. Breckenridge ruled against the Church and Mary Sue Hubbard, criticizing her credibility as a witness:\n\nA month later, in the English High Court of Justice, Mr Justice Latey declared in a case in which Scientology was a prominent issue that \"Mr Hubbard is a charlatan and worse, as are his wife, Mary Sue Hubbard, and the clique at the top privy to the cult's activities.\"\n\nIn October 1984, Mary Sue filed a $5 million lawsuit against her husband's first son, Ronald DeWolf, accusing him of \"massive fraud\" for attempting to have his father declared legally dead or mentally incompetent. L. Ron Hubbard died on January 24, 1986, at his ranch near Creston, California.\n\nA Scientology spokesman informed the press that she had been left \"a very generous provision\" in her husband's will, though the details were kept secret. Mary Sue Hubbard continued to be active in Scientology well into the 1990s; in a 1994 Scientology magazine, she was listed as a \"Patron\" of the International Association of Scientologists, indicating a donation of $40,000. In December 1995, Hubbard had a mastectomy of her left breast. In 1998 she was diagnosed with metastatic breast cancer in addition to her existing chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). Mary Sue Hubbard died on November 25, 2002, aged 71, at her home in Los Angeles. Her body was cremated two days later and her ashes were scattered at sea off the California coast, where L. Ron Hubbard's ashes had similarly been scattered in January 1986.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "100128", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=100128", "title": "Narasimha", "text": "Narasimha\n\nNarasimha (Sanskrit: नरसिंह IAST: Narasiṃha, lit. \"man-lion\") is an avatar of the Hindu god Vishnu, one who incarnates in the form of part lion and part man to destroy evil and end religious persecution and calamity on Earth, thereby restoring Dharma.\n\nNarasimha iconography shows him with a human torso and lower body, with a lion face and claws, typically with a demon Hiranyakashipu in his lap whom he is in the process of killing. The demon is powerful brother of evil Hiranyaksha who had been previously killed by Vishnu, who hated Vishnu for killing his brother. Hiranyakashipu gains special powers by which he could not be killed during the day or night, inside or outside, by god, demon, man or animal. Coronated with his new powers, Hiranyakashipu creates chaos, persecutes all devotees of Vishnu including his own son. Vishnu understands the demon's power, then creatively adapts into a mixed avatar that is neither man nor animal and kills the demon at the junction of day and night, inside and outside. Narasimha is known primarily as the 'Great Protector' who specifically defends and protects his devotees from evil. The most popular Narasimha mythology is the legend that protects his devotee Prahlada, and creatively destroys Prahlada's demonic father and tyrant Hiranyakashipu.\n\nNarasimha legends are revered in Vaishnavism, but he is a popular deity beyond the Vaishnava tradition such as in Shaivism. He is celebrated in many regional Hindu temples, texts, performance arts and festivals such as Holika prior to the Hindu spring festival of colors called Holi. The oldest known artwork of Narasimha has been found at several sites across Uttar Pradesh and Andhra Pradesh, such as at the Mathura archaeological site. These have been variously dated between 2nd and 4th-century CE.\n\nThe word \"Narasimha\" consists of two words \"nara\" which means man, and \"simha\" which means lion. Together the term means \"man-lion\", referring to a mixed creature avatar of Vishnu.\n\nHe is known as \"Narasingh\", \"Narasingha\",\"Nrusingha\", \"Narasimba\" and \"Narasinghar\" in derivative languages. His other names are \"Agnilochana\" (अग्निलोचन) - the one who has fiery eyes, \"Bhairavadambara\" (भैरवडम्बर) - the one who causes terror by roaring, \"Karala\" (कराल) - the one who has a wide mouth and projecting teeth, \"Hiranyakashipudvamsa\" (हिरण्यकशिपुध्वंस) - the one who killed Hiranyakashipu, \"Nakhastra\" (नखास्त्र) - the one for whom nails are his weapons, \"Sinhavadana\" (सिंहवदन) - the whose face is of lion and \"Mrigendra\" (मृगेन्द्र) - king of animals or lion.\n\nThe Vishnu hymn 1.154 of the \"Rigveda\" (1500-1200 BCE) contains a verse with allusions to a \"wild beast, dread, prowling, mountain-roaming\", which has been interpreted by some to be the Narasiṃha legend. Another hymn 8.14 alludes to the Namuci legend with \"waters' foam you tore off, Indra, the head of Namuci, subduing all contending hosts\", but the hymns does not present details.\n\nA more complete version of the Namuci legend is found in \"Shatapatha Brahmana\" of the \"Yajurveda\" in chapter 12.7.3. Other references to Narasimha are found in the Vedic texts Vajaseneyi Samhita 10.34, Pancavimsa Brahmana 12.6.8 and Taittiriya Brahmana 1.7.1.6.\n\nNarasimha likely has roots in the metaphors filled Indra-Namuci legend in the Vedas. Indra is the dharmic leader of the Devas who commands lightning, thunder, rain and rivers, while Namuci is a deceptive demigod Asura in competition for power. Namuci suggests peace to Indra, which the latter accepts. He demands Indra to promise that he will neither try to slay him with his \"palm of the hand nor with the fist\", neither in day nor in night, neither \"anything that the dry\" nor \"anything that is moist\". Indra agrees.\n\nAfter the deal is done, Namuci carries away all that nourishes the Devas: the Soma drink, the essence of food and the strength of Indra. The leader of the gods finds himself conflicted, feels bound by his promise. Indra then meets Saraswati (goddess of knowledge) and Ashvins. They reply they will deal with Namuci, get it all back, if Indra agrees to share his powers, the essence of food and the Soma drink with them. Indra agrees. The gods and the goddess then come up with a creative plan. They pour out \"foam of water\" as a thunderbolt, which is neither dry nor moist, and the evil Asura Namuci is attacked and killed when it is neither day nor night.\n\nAfter Namuci is killed, the gods get all the powers back, but discover that Namuci had drunk the Soma already. The good was thus now mixed with his badness of his blood, which they did not want to drink. So, they extract the good out from the bad. Thus, good returns to the Devas, the bad is discarded.\n\nAccording to Deborah Soifer, the Vedic legend has many parallels with the Narasimha legend, it has the same plot, the same \"neither-nor\" constraints, and the same creative spirit that allows the good to vanquish the evil. Further, the Sanskrit words and phrasing such as \"neither palm nor fist\" and \"neither day nor night\" in the later Hindu texts is the same as in the Vedic texts. This suggests a link and continuity between the Vedic Namuci legend and the later Narasimha legend in the Puranas. According to Walter Ruben, both versions along with several other legends in ancient and medieval texts reflect the Indian tradition against despots and tyrants who abuse power.\n\nThere are references to Narasiṃha in a variety of Purāṇas, with 17 different versions of the main narrative. The Valmiki Ramayana (7.24), Harivaṃśa (41 & 3.41-47), \"Viṣṇu Purāṇa\" (1.16-20), \"Bhagavata Purāṇa\" (Canto 7), Agni Purāṇa (4.2-3), Brahmāṇḍa Purāṇa(2.5.3-29), Vayu Purāṇa (67.61-66), Brahma-Purāṇa (213.44-79), Viṣṇudharmottara Purāṇa(1.54), Kūrma Purāṇa (1.15.18-72), Matsya Purāṇa(161-163), Padma Purāṇa(Uttara-khaṇḍa 5.42), Śiva Purāṇa (2.5.43 & 3.10-12), \"Linga Purana\" (1.95-96) and Skanda Purāṇa 7 (2.18.60-130) all contain depictions of the Narasiṃha Avatāra.\n\nNarasimha is also found in the Mahābhārata (3.272.56-60) and is the focus of \"Nrisimha Tapaniya Upanishad\".\n\nThe Bhagavata Purāṇa describes that Vishnu, in his previous avatar as Varāha, killed the evil asura Hiraṇayakṣa. The elder brother of Hirṇayakṣa, demon king Hiraṇyakaśipu, hated Vishnu and wanted revenge. He undertook many years of austere penance to gain special powers. Thereafter, Brahma offered Hiraṇyakaśipu a boon. Hiraṇyakaśipu asked, \"Grant me that I not die within any residence or outside any residence, during the daytime or at night, nor on the ground or in the sky. Grant me that my death not be brought about by any weapon, nor by any human being or animal. Grant me that I not meet death from any entity, living or nonliving created by you. Grant me, further, that I not be killed by any demigod or demon or by any great snake from the lower planets.\" Brahma granted him the boon, and Hiraṇyakaśipu gained these powers.\nHiraṇyakaśipu, once powerful and invincible with the new boon, began to persecute those who were devotees of Vishnu. Hiraṇyakaśipu had a son, Prahlāda, who disagreed and rebelled against his father. Prahlāda became a devotee of Vishnu. This angered Hiraṇyakaśipu, who tried to kill the boy -- but with each attempt, Prahlāda was protected by Viṣṇu's mystical power. When asked, Prahlāda refused to acknowledge his father as the supreme lord of the universe and claimed that Viṣṇu is all-pervading and omnipresent.\nHiraṇyakaśipu pointed to a nearby pillar and asked if 'his Viṣṇu' is in it and said to his son Prahlāda, \"O most unfortunate Prahlāda, you have always described a supreme being other than me, a supreme being who is above everything, who is the controller of everyone, and who is all-pervading. But where is He? If He is everywhere, then why is He not present before me in this pillar?\" Prahlāda then answered, \"He was, He is and He will be.\"\n\nIn an alternate version of the story, Prahlāda answered,\"He is in pillars, and he is in the smallest twig\".\nHiraṇyakaśipu, unable to control his anger, smashed the pillar with his mace, and following a tumultuous sound, Viṣṇu in the form of Narasiṃha appeared from it and moved to attack Hiraṇyakaśipu in defense of Prahlāda. In order to kill Hiraṇyakaśipu and not upset the boon given by Brahma, the form of Narasiṃha was chosen. Hiraṇyakaśipu could not be killed by human, deva or animal. Narasiṃha was none of these, as he is a form of Viṣṇu incarnate as a part-human, part-animal. He came upon Hiraṇyakaśipu at twilight (when it is neither day nor night) on the threshold of a courtyard (neither indoors nor out), and put the demon on his thighs (neither earth nor space). Using his sharp fingernails (neither animate nor inanimate) as weapons, he disemboweled and killed the demon king.\n\nThe Kūrma Purāṇa describes the preceding battle between the Puruṣa and demonic forces in which he escapes a powerful weapon called Paśupāta. According to Soifer, it describes how Prahlāda's brothers headed by Anuhrāda and thousands of other demons \"were led to the valley of death (yamalayam) by the lion produced from the body of man-lion\". The same episode occurs in the \"Matsya Purāṇa\" 179, several chapters after its version of the Narasiṃha advent.\n\nNarasimha is always shown with a lion face with clawed fingers fused with a human body. Sometimes he is coming out of a pillar signifying that he is everywhere, in everything, in everyone. Some temples such as at Ahobilam, Andhra Pradesh, the iconography is more extensive, and includes nine other icons of Narasimha:\n\nThe earliest known iconography of Narasimha is variously dated to between the 2nd and the 4th-century CE, and these have been found in Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Andhra Pradesh. Most images and temples of Narasimha are found in the peninsular region of India, but important ancient and medieval archeological sites containing Narasimha icons are also found as Vaikuntha Chaturmurti in Kashmir and Khajuraho temples, while single face versions are found in Garhwa and Mathura (Uttar Pradesh) and in Ellora Caves (Maharashtra). Other major temples with notable icons of Narasimha are found in Himachal Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Odisha, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu and the Vijayanagara Empire ruins in Karnataka. Some of the oldest surviving Hindu temples, such as those found in Tigawa and Eran (Madhya Pradesh), dated to early 5th-century, include Narasimha along with other avatars of Vishnu.\n\nNarasimha is a significant iconic symbol of creative resistance, hope against odds, victory over persecution, and destruction of evil. He is the destructor of not only external evil, but also one's own inner evil of \"body, speech, and mind\" states Pratapaditya Pal..\n\nIn South Indian art – sculptures, bronzes and paintings – Viṣṇu's incarnation as Narasiṃha is one of the most chosen themes and amongst Avatāras perhaps next only to Rāma and Kṛṣṇa in popularity. Lord Narasiṃha also appears as one of Hanuman's 5 faces, who is a significant character in the Rāmāyaṇa as Lord (Rāma's) devotee.\n\nNarasimha is worshipped across Telangana and Andhra Pradesh States in numerous forms. Although, it is common that each of the temples contain depictions of Narasimha in more than one form, Ahobilam contains nine temples of Narasimha dedicated to the nine forms of Narasimha. It is also notable that the central aspect of Narasimha incarnation is killing the demon Hiranyakasipu, but that image of Narasimha is not commonly worshipped in temples, although it is depicted.\n\nThe Narasimha legend was influential by the 5th-century, when various Gupta Empire kings minted coins with his images or sponsored inscriptions that associated the ethos of Narasimha with their own. The kings thus legitimized their rule as someone like Narasimha who fights evil and persecution. Some of the coins of the Kushan era show Narasimha-like images, suggesting possible influence. \n\nSome of the oldest Narasimha terracotta artworks have been dated to about the 2nd-century CE, such as those discovered in Kausambi. A nearly complete, exquisitely carved standing Narasimha statue, wearing a \"pancha\", with personified attributes near him has been found at the Mathura archeological site and is dated to the 6th-century.\n\nThe Narasimha legends have been a part of various Indian classical dance repertoire. For example, Kathakali theatre has included the Narasimha-Hiranyakasipu battle storyline, and adaptations of \"Prahlada Caritam\" with Narasimha has been one of the popular performances in Kerala. Similarly, the Bhagavata Mela dance-drama performance arts of Tamil Nadu traditionally celebrate the annual Narasimha jayanti festival by performing the story within regional Narasimha temples.\n\nA number of prayers have been written in dedication to Narasiṃha avatāra. These include:\n\n\nIn Andhra Pradesh, a panel dating to third-fourth century AD shows a full theriomorphic squatting lion with two extra human arms behind his shoulders holding Vaiṣṇava emblems. This lion, flanked by five heroes (\"vīra\"), often has been identified as an early depiction of Narasiṃha. Standing cult images of Narasiṃha from the early Gupta period, survive from temples at Tigowa and Eran. These sculptures are two-armed, long maned, frontal, wearing only a lower garment, and with no demon-figure of Hiraṇyakaśipu. Images representing the narrative of Narasiṃha slaying the demon Hiraṇyakaśipu survive from slightly later Gupta-period temples: one at Madhia and one from a temple-doorway now set into the Kūrma-maṭha at Nachna, both dated to the late fifth or early sixth century A.D.\n\nAn image of Narasiṃha supposedly dating to second-third century AD sculpted at Mathura was acquired by the Philadelphia Museum of Art in 1987. It was described by Stella Kramrisch, the former Philadelphia Museum of Art's Indian curator, as \"perhaps the earliest image of Narasiṃha as yet known\". This figure depicts a furled brow, fangs, and lolling tongue similar to later images of Narasiṃha, but the idol's robe, simplicity, and stance set it apart. On Narasiṃha's chest under his upper garment appears the suggestion of an amulet, which Stella Kramrisch associated with Visnu's cognizance, the Kauṣtubha jewel. This upper garment flows over both shoulders; but below Hiranyakasipu, the demon-figure placed horizontally across Narasiṃha's body, a twisted waist-band suggests a separate garment covering the legs. The demon's hair streams behind him, cushioning his head against the man-lion's right knee. He wears a simple single strand of beads. His body seems relaxed, even pliant. His face is calm, with a slight suggestion of a smile. His eyes stare adoringly up at the face of Viṣṇu. There is little tension in this figure's legs or feet, even as Narasiṃha gently disembowels him. His innards spill along his right side. As the Matsya purana describes it, Narasiṃha ripped \"apart the mighty Daitya chief as a plaiter of straw mats shreds his reeds\". Based on the Gandhara-style of robe worn by the idol, Michael Meiste altered the date of the image to fourth century AD.\n\nAn image of Narasiṃha, dating to the 9th century, was found on the northern slope of Mount Ijo, at Prambanan, Indonesia. Images of Trivikrama and Varāha avatāras were also found at Prambanan, Indonesia. Viṣṇu and His avatāra images follow iconographic peculiarities characteristic of the art of central Java. This includes physiognomy of central Java, an exaggerated volume of garment, and some elaboration of the jewelry. This decorative scheme once formulated became, with very little modification, an accepted norm for sculptures throughout the Central Javanese period (circa 730–930 A.D.). Despite the iconographic peculiarities, the stylistic antecedents of the Java sculptures can be traced back to Indian carvings as the Chalukya and Pallava images of the 6th–7th centuries AD.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52017784", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52017784", "title": "Painting of the Six Kings", "text": "Painting of the Six Kings\n\nThe Painting of the Six Kings is a fresco found on the wall of Qasr Amra, a desert castle of the Umayyad Caliphate located in modern-day Jordan. It depicts six rulers standing in two rows of three. Four of the six have inscriptions in Arabic and Greek identifying them as the Byzantine emperor, King Roderic of Hispania, the Sasanian emperor, and the Negus of Aksum. The painting, now substantially damaged, is thought to be from between 710 and 750, commissioned by the Umayyad caliph or someone in his family. It is one of the most famous frescoes in the Qasr Amra complex.\n\nThe painting is located in Qasr Amra (also transcribed \"Quseir Amra\", literally \"little palace of Amra\"), an Umayyad desert structure and a UNESCO World Heritage Site about east of Amman and southwest of the Azraq Wetland Reserve, Jordan. The complex has several frescoes painted on its walls. The remoteness and size of the structure suggest that it served as a desert retreat for Umayyad rulers at the time.\n\nThe painting is on the southern end of the west portion of the main wall. Along with other works in the complex, it was cleaned and preserved in the 1970s by a team from the National Archaeological Museum of Spain.\n\nHistorian Elizabeth Drayson estimated the earliest possible date for the painting to be 710, the year of the accession of Rodericone of the kings portrayed in the paintingand the latest to be 750, the year of Abbasid Revolution that overthrew the Umayyads. The artist who painted the fresco is unknown. The patron who commissioned the building, including the painting, was likely one of the caliphs al-Walid I (reigned 705–715), al-Walid II (743–744) or Yazid III (744). It might have been commissioned after the patron became caliph, or before, when the patron was a member of the caliph's family and held the position of governor or heir.\n\nThe complex, long familiar to local nomads, was discovered (to the West) by the Czech scholar Alois Musil in 1898. Musil and his companion, Austrian artist Alphons Leopold Mielich, tried to remove the painting from the site, causing permanent damage. A fragment of the painting, containing labels and partial crowns of two of the figures, is now in the , Berlin.\n\nMusil's 1907 publication \"Kusejr 'Amra\" included a tracing made by Mielich on the spot, Musil's interpretative copy made on the spot, Mielich's later reproduction, and Mielich's written description of the painting. This publication included their observations made before much of the damage to the painting was done.\n\nThe painting is badly damaged, partly due to the efforts by Alois Musil to remove it. Large portions of the figures and their garments are not clearly visible. There are six rulers, or kings, standing facing the viewer in two rows of three. Each king stretches out both hands with palms turned upwards. Inscriptions in Greek and Arabic above four of the figures, written in white letters on a blue background, identify them as:\n\nThe labels were already fragile when Musil found it, and many of the labels were lost when he and Mielich tried to clean the painting and remove it from the site. However, Musil's 1907 publication provided his reproduction of the labels before the damage. Apart from the four rulers, no identification remains visible for the other two rulers. Possible identities speculated for them include the emperor of China, a Turkic leader, and an Indian ruler.\n\nAlongside the painting of the six kings, on the same wall, is a painting of a woman with the Greek word ΝΙΚΗ \"Nikē\" \"Victory\" above her. Opposite the painting, towards which the six rulers are gesturing, is a painting of a man seated on a throne. Above this man is an inscription containing a blessing on a person whose name is now invisible.\n\nThe intent and meaning of the painting are unclear, and disputed by scholars. The highly diverse interpretations of the painting are partly due to the loss of information from the damage.\n\nAccording to Islamic art consultant Patricia Baker, the Greek word for \"victory\" appearing nearby suggests that the image was meant to suggest the caliph's supremacy over his enemies. Betsy Williams of the Metropolitan Museum of Art suggested that the six figures are depicted in supplication, presumably towards the caliph who would be seated in the hall. Other scholars, including Arabic epigraphist Max van Berchem and architectural historian K. A. C. Creswell, argued that the six rulers are a representation of the defeated enemies of Islam. Iranologist and archaeologist Ernst Herzfeld argued that the painting is an Umayyad copy or version of the Sassanian \"Kings of the Earth\" located at Kermanshah, as recorded by Yaqut al-Hamawi in his work \"Mu'jam al-Buldan\" (\"Dictionary of Countries\"). Art historian Oleg Grabar interpreted the painting as an attempt to convey the idea that the Umayyad dynasty was the descendant and heir of the dynasties it had defeated.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28341983", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28341983", "title": "Poppy goddess", "text": "Poppy goddess\n\nThe name poppy goddess was given to a large female figurine which is believed to represent a Minoan goddess, discovered in a sanctuary of the Post-palace period (LM III, 1400–1100 BC) at Gazi, Crete, and now in the Heraklion Archaeological Museum. The terracotta figurine has raised hands and seeds of opium poppies on her head. \n\nIn this period, Mycenean influence particularly on art was strong over the island, showing that Crete was now little more than a province of the Mycenean world after the Mycenean invasion in 1450 BC. Minoan pottery figurines were found in public sanctuaries, not only in palace-sanctuaries as is usual in earlier periods. Clay idols with raised hands were also found in the shrine of double axes in Knossos, in Gournia, in Myrtos, and also in the sanctuaries of Gortys and Prinias. On the heads of the figures there are various religious symbols, such as horns of consecration, diadems, birds and the seeds of opium poppies. The female figure known as the \"poppy goddess\" is perhaps a representation of the goddess as the bringer of sleep or death.\n\nThe figures found at Gazi, which are larger than any previously produced on Minoan Crete, are rendered in an extremely stylized manner. The bodies are lifeless, the skirts simple cylinders, and the poses stereotyped.\n\nThe raised hands of the idol indicate that it is a deity who gazes toward the visitor, and the gesture of the two upraised hands with open palms is the epiphany gesture of the goddess. It is possible that the goddess is giving a greeting, or a blessing, or is praying, or it may symbolize her appearance in earth in human form.\nPoppies were used in Greco-Roman myths as offerings to the dead. Robert Graves believed that a second meaning of the depiction and use of poppies in the Greco-Roman myths is the symbolism of the bright scarlet colour as signifying the promise of resurrection after death and that the poppy was the emblem of the goddess Demeter. According to Theocritus for the Greeks Demeter was still a poppy goddess bearing sheaves and poppies in both hands (\"Idyll\" vii 157). \n\nKarl Kerenyi asserted that poppies were connected with a Cretan cult which was transmitted to the Eleusinian mysteries in Classical Greece: \"It seems probable that the Great Mother Goddess who bore the names Rhea and Demeter, brought the poppy with her from her Cretan cult to Eleusis and it is almost certain that in the Cretan cult sphere opium was prepared from poppies.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45299161", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45299161", "title": "Puranic chronology", "text": "Puranic chronology\n\nThe Puranic chronology gives a timeline of Hindu history according to the Hindu scriptures. Two central dates are the Mahabharata War, which according to this chronology happened at 3138 BCE, and the start of the Kali Yuga, which according to this chronology started at 3102 BCE. The Puranic chronology is referred to by proponents of Indigenous Aryans to propose an earlier dating of the Vedic period, and the spread of Indo-European languages out of India. \n\nThe Puranas contain stories about the creation of the world, and the yugas. Mahabharata, Ramayana and the Puranas also contain genealogies of kings, which are used for the traditional chronology of India's ancient history. Michael Witzel doubts the reliability of these texts, concluding that they \"have clearly lifted (parts of) lineages, fragment by fragment, from the Vedas and have supplied the rest ... —from hypothetical, otherwise unknown traditions—or, as can be seen in the case of the \"Mahābhārata\", from poetical imagination.\"\n\nGavin Flood connects the rise of the written Purana historically with the rise of devotional cults centering upon a particular deity in the Gupta era: the Puranic corpus is a complex body of material that advance the views of various competing \"sampradayas\". Wendy Doniger, based on the study of indologists, assigns approximate dates to the various Puranas. She dates Markandeya Purana to c. 250 CE (with one portion dated to c. 550 CE), Matsya Purana to c. 250–500 CE, Vayu Purana to c. 350 CE, Harivamsa and Vishnu Purana to c. 450 CE, Brahmanda Purana to c. 350–950 CE, Vamana Purana to c. 450–900 CE, Kurma Purana to c. 550–850 CE, and Linga Purana to c. 600–1000 CE.\n\nThe Puranas, the Mahabharata and the Ramayana also contain lists of kings and genealogies, from which the traditional chronology of India's ancient history are derived. The Vedic Foundation, for example, gives the following chronology of ancient India:\n\nThe historicity of the Mahabharata War is subject to scholarly discussion and dispute. The existing text of the \"Mahabharata\" went through many layers of development, and mostly belongs to the period between c. 500 BCE and 400 CE. Within the frame story of the \"Mahabharata\", the historical kings Parikshit and Janamejaya are featured significantly as scions of the Kuru clan, and Michael Witzel concludes that the general setting of the epic has a historical precedent in Iron Age (Vedic) India, where the Kuru kingdom was the center of political power during roughly 1200 to 800 BCE. According to Professor Alf Hiltebeitel, the Mahabharata is essentially mythological. Indian historian Upinder Singh has written that:\n\nDespite the inconclusiveness of the data, attempts have been made to assign a historical date to the Kurukshetra War. Popular tradition holds that the war marks the transition to Kaliyuga and thus dates it to 3102 BCE. A number of other proposals have been put forward:\n\nThe Puranas contain stories about the creation of the world, and the yugas. There are four yugas in one cycle:\n\nAccording to the Manusmriti, one of the earliest known texts describing the yugas, the length is 4800 years + 3600 years + 2400 years + 1200 years, for a total of 12,000 years for one arc, or 24,000 years to complete the cycle, which is one precession of the equinox). These 4 yugas follow a timeline ratio of (4:3:2:1).\n\nAccording to Bhagavata Purana 3.11.19, which is dated at 500-1000 CE, the yugas are much longer, namely 1,728,000 years, 1,296,000 years, 864,000 years and 432,000 years\n\nThe Vedic-Puranic chronology has been referred to by proponents of Indigenous Aryans, putting into question the Indo-Aryan migrations at ca. 1500 BCE and proposing older dates for the Vedic period. According to the \"Indigenist position\", the Aryans are indigenous to India, and the Indo-European languages radiated out from a homeland in India into their present locations. According to them, the Vedas are older than second millennium BCE, and scriptures like the Mahabaratha reflect historical events which took place before 1500 BCE. Some of them equate the Indus Saraswati Civilisation with the Vedic Civilization, state that the Indus script was the progenitor of the Brahmi, and state that there is no difference between the people living in (northern) Indo-European part and the (southern) Dravidian part. \n\nThe idea of \"Indigenous Aryanism\" fits into traditional Hindu ideas about their religion, namely that it has timeless origins, with the Vedic Aryans inhabiting India since ancient times. \n\nM.S. Golwalkar, in his 1939 publication \"We or Our Nationhood Defined\", famously stated that \"Undoubtedly [...] we — Hindus — have been in undisputed and undisturbed possession of this land for over eight or even ten thousand years before the land was invaded by any foreign race.\" Golwalkar was inspired by Tilak's \"The Arctic Home in the Vedas\" (1903), who argued that the Aryan homeland was located at the North Pole, basing this idea on Vedic hymns and Zoroastrian texts. Gowalkar took over the idea of 10,000 years, arguing that the North Pole at that time was located in India.\n\nSubhash Kak, a main proponent of the \"indigenist position,\" underwrites the Vedic-Puranic chronology, and uses it to recalculate the dates of the Vedas and the Vedic people. According to Kak, \"the Indian civilization must be viewed as an unbroken tradition that goes back to the earliest period of the Sindhu-Sarasvati (or Indus) tradition (7000 or 8000 BC).\" According to Sudhir Bhargava, the Vedas were composed 10,000 years ago, when Manu supposedly lived, in ashrams at the banks of the Sarasvati river in Brahmavarta, the ancient home-base of the Aryans. According to Sudhir Bhargava, people from Brahmavarta moved out from Brahmavarta into and outside India after 4500 BCE, when seismic activities had changed the course of the Sarasvati and other rivers.\n\nThe idea of 10,000 years of Hindu presence in South Asia stands in stark contrast to mainstream scholarship, according to which proto-Vedic culture entered India starting 1500 BCE with the Indo-Aryan migrations, and Hinduism developed as a synthesis of Vedic-Brahmanic and indigenous religious traditions after 500 BCE.\n\n"}
{"id": "44100911", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44100911", "title": "Samaritan Christians", "text": "Samaritan Christians\n\nThe early relationship between Samaritans and Christianity is murky.\n\nAccording to the New Testament book of Acts, Philip the Evangelist conducted a mission in Samaria and significantly increased the number of Christian believers there. This was followed by the apostolic visitation of Peter and John, who were sent by the elders in Jerusalem to lay hands upon the baptized Samaritans so that they would receive the Holy Spirit.\n\nBy the end of the second century CE, the original Samaritan Christian community had disbanded and was lost to history. A few scholars, like Dr. Ze’ev Goldmann, believe that Samaritan Christianity continued on for some time thereafter, and argue that “Samaritan Neo-Christians” had moved to Capernaum and had adopted the use of the pelta (shield) symbol as a representative sign, having a function similar to the Jewish star of David, which can be seen at several archaeological sites associated with them. \n\nFrom the story of the Samaritan woman at the well to the parable of the Good Samaritan, Samaritans were very much a part of Early Christianity. Jesus, however, championed the underdog. While he instructed his disciples not to go to the Samaritans, he dealt with the Samaritans directly, and referenced them in his teachings.\n\nA nephew of Stephen and one of the original Seven Deacons of the Jerusalem Church, Prochorus played an important role in the development of early Christianity among Jewish and Samaritan converts. After his uncle's martyrdom, Roman and Jewish violence toward Christians increased and eventually led to the dispersion of the Christian community at Jerusalem. Christian tradition holds that Prochorus gave aid to the Apostle Peter in his mission work and went on to become a close companion and personal scribe for the Apostle John, penning various letters and books for him, including his Gospel and his Revelation. Prochorus met a martyr's death in Antioch at the end of the first century AD.\n\nNothing of the original Samaritan Christian community remains, but Samaritans continued to convert to Christianity at different times during the centuries that followed the spread of Christianity throughout Rome. A great number of conversions were forced on account of persecution, which ultimately led to the assimilation and disappearance of the Byzantine Samaritan diaspora and the near annihilation of Samaritans in the Levant.\n"}
{"id": "1086816", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1086816", "title": "Sanctuary of Our Lady of Lourdes", "text": "Sanctuary of Our Lady of Lourdes\n\nThe Sanctuary of Our Lady of Lourdes or the Domain (as it is most commonly known) is an area of ground surrounding the Catholic shrine (Grotto) to Our Lady of Lourdes in the town of Lourdes, France. The Sanctuary is a destination for pilgrimage; sick pilgrims are reputed to be miraculously healed by Lourdes water. This ground is owned and administrated by the Roman Catholic Church, and has several functions, including devotional activities, offices, and accommodation for sick pilgrims and their helpers. The Domain includes the Grotto itself, the nearby taps which dispense the Lourdes water, and the offices of the Lourdes Medical Bureau, as well as several churches and basilicas. It comprises an area of 51 hectares, and includes 22 separate places of worship. There are six official languages of the Sanctuary: French, English, Italian, Spanish, Dutch and German.\n\nGrottos intended as replicas of the one at Our Lady of Lourdes, and other grottos in honour of Our Lady of Lourdes, are often described as \"Lourdes grottos\".\n\nBeginning on 11 February 1858, a 14-year-old peasant girl named Bernadette Soubirous claimed to have experienced a series of apparitions of a girl dressed in white and with a blue belt around her waist, who eventually introduced herself as the Immaculate Conception, a name by which the Virgin Mary was known.\n\nOn land bordered by a loop of the Gave de Pau river is an outcrop of rock called Massabielle, (from \"masse vieille\": \"old mass\"). On the northern aspect of this rock, near the river bank, is a naturally occurring, irregularly shaped shallow cave or grotto, in which the apparitions took place.\n\nAt the time of the apparitions, the grotto lay well outside town, on common ground which was used by the villagers variously for pasturing animals, collecting firewood, and as a garbage dump, and it had a reputation for being an unpleasant place.\n\nThe figure always appeared in one place, a niche above the main cavity of the grotto, in which a wild rose bush was growing. Among the instructions from 'the Virgin' were \"Go and drink from the spring\", \"Go and tell the priests to build a chapel here\", and \"Have the people come here in procession\". These three instructions in particular were to prove pivotal in the development of the Domain and its ceremonies.\n\nPublic interest in the apparitions grew, and curious visitors began to be replaced by pilgrims from increasingly far away, drawn by compelling stories of apparitions and miracles.\n\nA local priest, Abbé Dominique Peyramale, together with his bishop, Monsignor Bertrand-Sévère Mascarou Laurence, bought the grotto and the land around it from the commune in 1861, 3 years after the apparitions. Immediately they set about modifying the area to make it more accessible to visitors, and started work to build the first of the churches, which is now known as the Crypt.\n\nIn 1864, the Lyonnais sculptor Joseph-Hugues Fabisch was commissioned to create a statue of Our Lady of Lourdes based on Bernadette's descriptions. Although it has become an iconic symbol of Our Lady of Lourdes, it depicts a figure which is not only older and taller than Bernadette's description, but also more in keeping with orthodox and traditional representations of the Virgin Mary. The statue rests in the niche where the Virgin appeared to Bernadette. The original wild rose bush was destroyed shortly after the apparitions by pilgrims seeking relics, but a newer one has been planted nearby.\n\nDue to French political upheaval resulting in an enforced separation of Church and State, the property and grounds of the Domain were confiscated from the Church and returned to the ownership of the town in 1910. The then bishop, Mgr. François-Xavier Schoepfer, contested this confiscation and was permitted to rent the Domain from the town until the outbreak of World War I in 1914.\n\nLater, a visit to Lourdes by Marshal Pétain in 1941 provided official recognition of the Domain. Church officials successfully petitioned Pétain to allow the Church to reclaim ownership of the Domain.\n\nThe Bishop of Tarbes and Lourdes is responsible for the spiritual governance of the Domain. He appoints a local representative, who is called the Rector. The Domain is run independently of the parish of Lourdes, which is responsible for the spiritual needs of the Lourdais themselves.\n\nThirty full-time chaplains work in the Domain, from dioceses and religious communities worldwide. there were 292 full-time lay employees and a further 120 seasonal employees working in 63 different divisions, with an annual running budget of €18 million, 90% from donations.\n\nThe Domain is open all year round. In winter there are many fewer visitors, a reduced timetable of services and devotional activity, and no processions. The winter season runs from 1 November (the feast of All Saints) until Easter. On 11 February, the Feast of Our Lady of Lourdes, a full programme of activities usually takes place.\n\nThe Domain is fully active between Easter and All Saints each year, and has a programme of devotional activities including Mass, processions (see below), Adoration of the Blessed Sacrament, and the Sacrament of Reconciliation. Many activities are carried out in several languages; in some services the liturgy is repeated in different languages.\n\nThe grounds are open daily from 5 am until midnight; outside these times the Grotto is accessible via the Lacets Gate behind the Upper Basilica.\n\nAn estimated 200 million people have visited the shrine since 1860 . The Roman Catholic Church has officially recognized 70 miracle healings, the 70th of which was the cure of Sister Bernadette Moriau, recognised on February 11, 2018. \n\nAbout 800 tonnes of wax is burnt annually in devotional candles.\n\nThe Domain publishes the monthly \"Lourdes News\", with news and featured articles about the Domain and Lourdes generally.\n\nLourdes water flows from a spring at the same spot where it was discovered by Bernadette. The original spring can be seen within the Grotto, lit from below and protected by a glass screen. Pilgrims drink Lourdes water due to its reputed healing power. The water is accessed from individual tap located between the grotto and the baths, The water from Lourdes was thoroughly analysed by independent chemists in 1858 and 1859, and does not appear to have a latent power to cure and has no special scientific or medicinal properties. Despite this, the water is itself a strong symbol of devotion for Lourdes pilgrims, and many buy statues and rosary beads containing small vials of it, and take home large plastic containers of it.\n\nEach year about 350,000 pilgrims bathe in the water at the baths (\"Piscines)\". During the pilgrimage season, the baths are open 8:30 am –12:30 pm / 1:30 – 6:00 pm on weekdays and 10.00 am-12.00 noon / 2.00 pm-4.00 pm Sundays and Holidays,\n\nProcessions are held in the Domain, with the Torchlight Procession being perhaps the best-known and most visually impressive\n\nThe Blessed Sacrament procession is held daily at 5:00 pm. The procession begins at the open-air altar on the prairie across the river from the grotto and is led by sick pilgrims followed by a priest, bishop or cardinal carrying a monstrance containing the Blessed Sacrament. Typically the bearer of the Blessed Sacrament is sheltered from the elements by a mobile awning/canopy, called a baldachin, carried by four assistants. The Blessed Sacrament is accompanied by bearers carrying candles, incense burners or other devotional symbols. These bearers are lay helpers chosen from the pilgrimages. Following directly behind the Blessed Sacrament, both during the procession and the Blessing of the Sick, will be a representative group of doctors from the various pilgrimages. Lastly, there are groups of pilgrims, some following their parish or diocesan banner. The procession makes its way across the river, past the Crowned Statue, along the esplanade and down into the St. Pius X underground basilica where the sick pilgrims are placed at the front of the altar. During the procession there are meditations, prayers, hymns and chants, in several languages. When all the participants have assembled, there is a period of Eucharistic Adoration, followed by the Blessing of the Sick. \n\nDuring extreme weather conditions, the procession will take place inside the basilica.\n\nThe Torchlight Marian Procession takes place daily at 9.00pm. It begins near the Grotto and continues around the esplanade ending in the Rosary square. In extreme weather an indoor ceremony may be held in the Underground Basilica instead. The procession is led by sick pilgrims followed by volunteers carrying a replica of the Cabuchet Statue of the Virgin Mary. Most participants carry a candle.\n\nThe focus of this procession is the rosary. All five decades are recited, usually in a variety of languages. The Lourdes Hymn is also sung, with verses in different languages. Intercessions may be invoked followed by the \"Laudate Mariam\". There is a final blessing in Latin, and then an invitation to exchange the Sign of peace with fellow pilgrims.\n\nThe Crypt was the first of the churches to be completed in the Domain, and is today among the smallest. Construction was started by Abbé Peyramale and Mgr. Laurence. Bernadette's father worked on its construction and was present at its official opening, on Pentecost Sunday, 1866.\n\nThe nave is small and a notable feature as are the enormous pillars which support the weight of the Upper Basilica, which was constructed on top of it.\n\nThe Crypt is entered along a corridor, whose entrance is dominated by a large bronze statue of St. Peter, holding the Keys of the Kingdom of Heaven. Opposite stands a statue of Pius X. The walls of the corridor and nave are lined with small marble plaques, known as \"ex voto\" plaques, donated in thanks of spiritual favours received.\n\nThe Basilica of the Immaculate Conception, known widely as the Upper Basilica, was the second of the churches to be completed, consecrated in 1876. It is an impressive, elaborate building in Gothic style, designed by architect Hyppolyte Durand, and on one side seems to emerge directly from the rock of Massabielle (the sanctuary is directly above the Grotto). The walls are lined with \"ex voto\" plaques, and banners from official National Pilgrimages of the past. It has a series of stained-glass windows depicting various events in the story of Lourdes; the clerestory windows depict Mary as the Second Eve.\n\nThe exterior is dominated by a 70m spire, and two lesser spires (not completed until 1908). Above the entrance is a mosaic depicting Pope Pius IX, who defined the dogma of the Immaculate Conception in 1854.\n\nThe Rosary Basilica is the third of the churches to be completed, in 1899 and designed by architect Leopold Hardy. It was consecrated in 1901 and has a capacity of 1,500 worshippers. Its style is influenced by Byzantine architecture. The nave is open and circular, surmounted by a dome. The exterior of the dome is surmounted by a dramatic gilded crown and cross, which were a gift from the people of Ireland in 1924.\n\nThe exterior facade of the basilica was modified in 2007 to include a depiction of the Luminous Mysteries, which are not a part of traditional fifteen, but another rosary, by Pope John Paul II in 2002.\n\nThe open space in front of the Rosary Basilica is known as Rosary Square.\n\nThe entrances to the Crypt and the Upper Basilica, both of which are built on top of Massabielle, are far above ground level. To facilitate access, two enormous ramps were constructed, which curve down either side of Rosary Square. The image of the entrance of the Rosary Basilica, flanked by the two ramps and surmounted by the spires of the Upper Basilica, has become one of the iconic symbols of Lourdes, and a stylised form of this image has been adopted by the Domain itself as its logo.\n\nThe Statue of the Crowned Virgin, often known as the \"Crowned Statue\" (French: \"La Vierge Couronnée\"), stands across Rosary Square from the Rosary Basilica and faces the entrance. This prominent statue is a familiar landmark and a traditional meeting point. The statue is 2.5m high and cast in bronze, painted white and blue in the traditional colours. Her rosary is of the Birgittine style and incorporates six decades.\n\nBehind the Crowned Statue is the Esplanade, a large open walkway which is used for the processions.\n\nThe Basilica of St. Pius X, known as the Underground Basilica, is the largest and most controversial of the Domain's churches. It was designed by the architect Pierre Vago and completed in 1958 in anticipation of the enormous crowds expected in Lourdes for the centenary of the Apparitions. A modern, concrete building, it is almost entirely underground (part of the building lies beneath the Boulevard Père Rémi Sempé above). When full it can accommodate 25,000 worshippers.\n\nThe most recent of the major centres of worship is the Church of St. Bernadette, which was consecrated in 1988. It was built opposite the Grotto across the River, on the spot where Bernadette stood during the final (18th) Apparition.\n\nThe Church of St. Bernadette is a modern building with comparatively little adornment. It was designed to allow as much natural light as possible into the nave, and light-coloured materials have been used, making it noticeably brighter than the Underground Basilica. It was designed by the architect Jean-Paul Felix.\n\nIt is also a more versatile building. The nave has provision for 5,000 seated worshippers and 350 wheelchairs, but partitions can be drawn which divide the nave into smaller sections. In addition, it includes the Hemicycle, a large lecture room which may be used for worship, and an assortment of conference rooms and smaller rooms which may be used for devotional or non-devotional activity.\n\nThe Chapel of Reconciliation formerly occupied a site slightly more remote, at the entrance of the Upper Stations of the Cross. It was moved several years ago into a more prominent position, into the building previously known as the Accueil Notre Dame, near the Crowned Statue and facing the Esplanade.\n\nThe Chapel of Reconciliation is somewhat unusual in that no masses or other services take place there; instead it is given over entirely to the Sacrament of Reconciliation. Priests from different countries observe a duty roster, which means that, at almost any time of day, pilgrims from Europe (and occasionally further away) can find a priest who will hear their confession in their own language.\n\nSt. Joseph's Chapel is situated at the far end of the Esplanade, near St. Michael's Gate. It is a modern, concrete church, mostly underground, with little natural light. It was also designed by Pierre Vago, and was consecrated on 1 May 1968. It has provision for 450 seated worshippers and 80 wheelchairs.\n\nIn contrast to the grandness of Rosary Square and the various basilicas, the grotto at Massabielle where St Bernadette's visions took place is very simple and stark. The recess of the grotto itself is undecorated, although a plain stone altar and lectern have been placed there so that Mass can be celebrated. Above the main recess is the niche where the apparitions took place and Fabisch's statue now stands. A large stand of candles next to the altar is kept burning throughout the year. During the pilgrimage season, 2 pilgrimage masses are usually celebrated each morning at the grotto.\n\nThe spring Bernadette is said to have dug can be seen at the rear of the grotto, shielded by a glass cover. When Mass is not being celebrated, pilgrims can process through the grotto where it is traditional to touch the rocks directly under the statue; indeed so many people have done this that the stones have become polished. Also at the rear of the grotto is a metal box into which written prayers or petitions may be deposited; they are collected daily and burnt.\n\nRows of benches allow visitors to sit and pray or contemplate. Pilgrims are asked to remain silent while in the vicinity to create an atmosphere of devotion. One of the spots where Bernadette prayed to the Virgin is marked by a special paving slab.\n\nSome of the rock walls around the grotto bear clear signs of deliberate alteration, presumably to improve access for pilgrims. It is therefore no longer clear what the original configuration of the grotto was.\n\nAt least one contemporary account describes a series of chambers behind the statue's niche, which can only be reached by climbing \"like a lizard\" through clefts in the rocks.\n\nAcross the river from the grotto and the churches is the Accueil Notre Dame, a modern facility built in 1996 to house sick pilgrims during their time in Lourdes.\n\nThe Accueil Notre Dame was built to replace the two older Accueils that were present within the Domain. The old Accueil Notre Dame stood opposite the Underground Basilica, and has been extensively remodelled, being divided into two buildings by removing a section. One building now contains the Chapel of Reconciliation, which used to be the refectory, and also houses the convent of the Sisters of Charity of Nevers. The other section is now known as the Accueil John Paul II, and contains several chapels (e.g. St Cosmos & St Damien), the First Aid post and Dispensary, and the offices of the Hospitalité. The other was the Accueil St. Bernadette, which stood across the river from the old Accueil Notre Dame, and was demolished to make way for the new one.\n\nSince Easter 1997 sick pilgrims from all over the world have been housed in the Accueil Notre Dame, an airy modern building. The Accueil is organised into two wings, each consisting of six storeys, with the Reception area on the ground floor and the Transit Lounge on the fifth. Each floor from one to four is named after a specific saint, with female saints honoured on one side and male ones on the other. Each floor has a central refectory area where pilgrims congregate to eat.\n\nThe rooms, each with bathroom and shower, accommodate from one to six people. Each room has a window, with some fortunate ones having a view of the Grotto, and storage cupboards and a table and chairs. Each room opens onto a communal area.\n\nLinking the two sides is the Administration Area, with two panoramic lifts bringing visitors to each floor. The administration offices are on the sixth and seventh floors, and there are kitchens for each side.\n\nTypically, pilgrims arrive at the Accueil Notre Dame in specially adapted buses, either from Lourdes airport or train station, and will be welcomed in the transit lounge from where they are taken to their rooms. \n\nAnother accueil, the Accueil Marie St. Frai, is located a short distance outside the domain; it is similar in design and atmosphere to the Accueil Notre Dame.\n\nAcross the Gave from the Grotto is a wide, open, uncluttered space covered with grass and known in French as the \"prairie\", or in English, the meadow.\n\nIn the corner of the \"prairie\" is the tent-like Chapel of Adoration, consecrated in 1995 and given over entirely to veneration of the Blessed Sacrament, There is also an open-air altar for outdoor ceremonies. \n\nAlso on the prairie is a series of candle holders called 'brulières' where pilgrims can place candles of varying sizes. Some pilgrimages transport large candles from their respective parishes. The brulières are tended by \"feutiers\", attendants whose job is to ensure candles are burnt safely and evenly and to remove the trays of melted wax which collects under each brulière.\nIn 2002 the Water Walk was introduced, across the Gave and slightly downstream from the Grotto. It consists of a series of nine stations at which there is a small Lourdes water font.\n\nSince the earliest of the Lourdes apparitions, there has been intense debate regarding their veracity. The earliest investigators, including the priest Abbé Dominique Peyramale and the Chief of Police, Dominique Jacomet, were both initially convinced they were dealing with a hoax (both later changed their minds), and several researchers have since called several aspects of the Lourdes phenomenon into question.\n\nThe apparitions at Lourdes took place against the backdrop of a rich network of popular piety, which was common throughout the Pyrenean region in the 19th century. In the decades leading up to 1858, several children in small Pyrenean villages (on both sides of the border) claimed to see apparitions of the Virgin Mary in remote locations. Many consider that Bernadette was simply repeating a well-tried trick to gain attention and notoriety. Believers argue that this is not likely, since Bernadette claimed the Lady called herself \"the Immaculate Conception\", referring to a doctrine formally established only four years previously, and which Soubirous may not have been familiar with.\n\nModern Lourdes contains many souvenir shops. Some visitors may dislike the commercialism of parts of Lourdes, with neon-emblazoned shops overflowing with what Malcolm Muggeridge, a supporter of the shrine, called \"tawdry relics, the bric-a-brac of piety\". Lourdes has been called the \"Disneyland of the Catholic Church\". Critics argue that the Lourdes phenomenon is nothing more than a significant money-spinner for the town and the region, which therefore has a strong vested interest in keeping the pilgrims coming. The church, however, distances itself from commercialisation. The many trinket stalls are privately owned, and hawkers are strictly forbidden inside the sanctuary.\n\nMany people remain sceptical about Lourdes and its supposed healing power, arguing that any improvement offered by the shrine is no more than the placebo effect, and that the ceremonies and processions are no better than faith-healing on a grand scale.\n\nThe origin of this large church complex inspired by a vision in France is similar to the origin of the Basilica of Our Lady of Guadalupe in Mexico. Bernadette Soubirous's vision of 1858 which gave rise to the growth of Lourdes is similar to the case of Juan Diego's vision in 1531 in Mexico. Both saints reported visions in which a miraculous lady on a hill asked them to request that the local priests build a chapel at the site of the vision. Both visions had a reference to roses. Like Our Lady of Lourdes in France, Our Lady of Guadalupe is a major Catholic symbol in Mexico and the Basilica of Our Lady of Guadalupe complex is one of the largest and most visited Catholic churches in the Americas, but does not have the specific reputation for healing that Lourdes has.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14154686", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14154686", "title": "Shyama Sangeet", "text": "Shyama Sangeet\n\nShyama Sangeet () is a genre of Bengali devotional songs dedicated to the Hindu goddess Shyama or Kali which is a form of supreme universal mother-goddess Durga or parvati. It is also known as Shaktagiti or Durgastuti.\n\nShyama Sangeet appeals to the common man because it is a musical representation of the relationship of eternal and sublime love and care between the mother and her child. It is free of the common rituals of worship and also the esoteric practice of the Tantra.\n\nDuring the 12th-13th centuries when Shaktism grew in Bengal, it inspired a number of poets to compose poems on Kali.\nMukundarāma, known as Kavikaṅkaṇ or 'gem of poets, ' wrote his chief poem, the epic Chaṇḍī, in 1589. Towards the middle of the 18th century, the poet Ramprasad Sen instilled new life into it and turned it into a distinct genre of Bengali songs.\n\nRamprasad was succeeded by number of composers like Kamlakanta Bhattacharya (1772–1821), Rasikchandra Ray (1820–1893), Ramchandra Datta (1861–1899), and Nilakantha Mukhopadhyaya. In modern times both Rabindranath Tagore and Kazi Nazrul Islam have composed poems of Shyama Sangeet genre.\n\nThe term 'Shyama' refers to the skin color of Kali (usually depicted in black or deep blue.) Literally, it means dusky.\n\nShyamasangeet can be divided into two streams: devotional or metaphysical and \"Durgastuti\", \"Umasangit\", \"Agamani\" or \"Vijaya\" songs. The first category of songs is inspired by devotion and spiritual thoughts. The second category which is based on themes of daily family matters or social events, is known as \"Padavali\", \"Umasangit\", \"Agamani\" or \"Vijaya\" songs.\n\nShyama Sangeet conceptualizes Goddess Kali as a loving human mother and the singer is longing for The Mother’s love. The songs have become popular not only for its devotional side, but also for its human appeal.\n\nThe theme and occasion of Āgāmanī and Vijayā songs are as follows. Parvati (Umā or Gaurī), daughter of Himālaya and Menakā, was married to Śiva, the Lord of Kailāsa. Parvati as the form of Goddess Durga (the supreme universal mother-goddess) comes to see her parents from her in laws every year. The goddess is portrayed here as an ordinary girl living far away from her mother and feels joyous to come back home after a long stay at her in laws’ place. These songs too are highly popular because of their human appeal and as they are easily identifiable with any married girl living far away from their parents.\n\nWhat Edward Thompson wrote in 1923 is true even today.\n\nBut the Śākta poems are a different matter. These have gone to the heart of a people as few poets' work has done. Such songs as the exquisite 'This day will surely pass, Mother, this day will pass,' I have heard from coolies on the road or workers in the paddy fields; I have heard it by broad rivers at sunset, when the parrots were flying to roost and the village folk thronging from marketing to the ferry. Once I asked the top class in a mofussil high school to write out a song of Rabindranath Tagore's; two boys out of forty succeeded, a result which I consider showed the very real diffusion of his songs. But, when I asked for a song of Rāmprasād's, every boy except two responded. Truly, a poet who is known both by work and name to boys between fourteen and eighteen, is a national poet. Tagore's songs are heard in Calcutta streets, and have been widely spread by the student community and the Brahmo Samaj; but in the villages of Bengal they are unknown, while Rāmprasād's are heard everywhere. 'The peasants and the paṇḍits enjoy his songs equally. They draw solace from them in the hour of despair and even at the moment of death. The dying man brought to the banks of the Ganges asks his companions to sing Rāmprasādī songs.\nShayama sangeet become more popular at the time of Sri Ramkrishna Paramahansa, who was an ardent Kali bhakta/devotee. Ramprasad Sen, Rabindranath Thakur/Tagore, Girishchandra Ghosh, and Swami Vivekananda, among others, composed numerous Shyama Sangeet. India's national song, 'Vande Maataram'/'Hail to the Mother', whose lyrics were written by Bankimchandra Chatterjee/Chattopadhyay and whose music was composed by Thakur/TagOre, is first and foremost a hymn to Ma Durga which hails the Indian motherland, \"Bharat Mata\", as being a form of the supreme goddess Durga. Rabindranath Thakur/Tagore's 'Jana Gana Mana', the Indian national anthem, contains a line, \"Snehamayee tumi mata\", which literally means India is a loving mother (\"Bharat mata\")... Rabindranath Thakur/Tagore also composed a song which was later picked to be the national anthem of Bangladesh ('Amar Sonar Bangla'/'My golden Bengal') in which he refers to the entirety of Bengal (undivided Bengal; the song was written before the partition of West Bengal and Bangladesh) as being a segment of the body of the supreme mother.\n\n"}
{"id": "34872848", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34872848", "title": "Tapestry crochet", "text": "Tapestry crochet\n\nTapestry crochet is sometimes called jacquard crochet, intarsia, mosaic, fair isle, and colorwork, but today these terms usually describe different techniques. Since the yarns are switched back and forth to create motifs, tapestry crochet fabric looks more like it was woven on a loom than crocheted with a hook.\n\nJust as there are several ways to produce a woven tapestry, so there are different ways to do tapestry crochet. Most tapestry crochet is done with single crochet stitches, but the slip stitch, half double, and double crochet stitches are also used. Yarns not in play are either carried inside the stitches, dropped and picked up when needed (also called intarsia), or they run along the back of the stitches.\n\nThe crochet hook may be inserted under both top loops or under one loop (also called Fair Isle crochet); colors may be changed before the stitch is completed or afterwards, all of which produce different results. Tight stitches produce a stiff fabric with hidden carried colors, while loose stitches show the carried colors and produce a fabric with drape.\n\nSome fibers may be loosely tapestry crocheted, then felted in a washing machine – resulting in a dense fabric patterned on both sides.\n\nWith bead tapestry crochet, beads of the same color are strung onto individual yarns. To produce the motifs, yarns are switched and beads are placed on some or all of the stitches.\n\nMaya men in Guatemala tapestry crochet shoulder bags with recognizable regional patterns for local use with single crochet stitches, inserting the hook under both top loops. Both women and men there tapestry crochet bags, hats, and hacky sacks for tourists.\n\nHats are tapestry crocheted by both men and women in Africa, such as in Ghana. The shape, color, and design can denote social position or ethnic affiliation or may simply be a fashion statement. In order to make the fabric stiffer, extra fibers are sometimes carried along with the yarn or the hat may be starched.\n\nTapestry crocheted yarmulke (also called kippah) are worn by Jewish men. These skullcaps are usually decorated with either geometric or figurative motifs.\n\n"}
{"id": "810141", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=810141", "title": "Torah database", "text": "Torah database\n\nA Torah database (מאגר תורני or מאגר יהדות) is an electronic collection of classic Jewish texts in electronic form, the kinds of texts which especially in Israel are often called \"The Traditional Jewish Bookshelf\" (ארון הספרים היהודי); the texts are in their original languages (Hebrew or Aramaic). These databases contain either keyed-in digital texts or a collection of page-images from printed editions. Given the nature of traditional Jewish Torah study, which involves extensive citation and cross-referencing among hundreds of texts written over the course of thousands of years, many Torah databases also make extensive use of hypertext links.\n\nA Torah database usually refers to a collection of primary texts, rather than translations or secondary research and reference materials.\n\nThe very first such database was the Bar Ilan Responsa Project, which began in 1963 at the Weizmann Institute in Israel, migrated to Bar-Ilan University soon thereafter, and was up and running by 1967. It became available in time-sharing mode from university terminals in 1979, was transferred to CD-ROM in 1990, and version 1.0 was offered for sale to the public in 1992. The current version is number 25 or 25+ (the \"plus\" version contains an important secondary reference called the Encyclopedia Talmudit).\n\nThe Responsa Project tries to base its electronic texts on the most accurate printed editions (though it seems that it is sometimes prevented from doing so because of copyright considerations), and it has a reputation for relatively error-free electronic texts based upon those editions. It also features approximately 360,000 hypertext links between the various collections within the database, as well as a topical halakhic index for the Shulchan Aruch and selected responsa. Since its early years it has employed a sophisticated search-engine specifically designed for Hebrew language texts.\n\nIn recent years (at least since version 10 in 2002), the Responsa Project has made updates available once a year, between the Passover and Shavuot holidays.\n\nIn January, 2007, the responsa project became available in an online edition.\n\nIn April, 2007 the Responsa Project won the Israel Prize for Jewish studies.\n\nDBS rivals the Bar-Ilan Responsa project in size. It has less in the overall area of Halakha and fewer responsa, but it includes far more in the following areas: Jewish philosophy, Kabbalah, Hasidut, biblical commentaries, and late halakhic works.\n\nDBS contains a good number of Hebrew texts with vowels (niqqud); see below. Criticisms: It does not have extensive hypertext links between its various large collections.\n\nProduced by Davka corporation, Soncino Classics Collection includes\n\nSoncino Classics Collection is a commercial software.\n\n\"Otzar ha-Poskim\" (also see below) produces \"The Torah Bookshelf,\" a large digital collection of basic texts called \"Halamish\" (Ha-Sifriyah ha-Toranit) in Hebrew, currently in version 3.0.\n\nAriel (currently version 2.1) uses the same software as Otzar ha-Poskim's \"Torah Bookshelf\" and is similar to it in scope (a large basic collection), but many of the titles in the two collections are not the same.\n\nBar-Ilan University's project to produce an entirely new critical edition of the Mikra'ot Gedolot is also being made available not only in printed volumes, but also in electronic form. The project contains four main elements:\n\nThe CD-ROM is currently in version 2.0 (beta).\n\n\"(Note: Although also under the auspices of Bar-Ilan University, this project is unrelated to the Bar-Ilan Responsa Project.)\"\n\nTanakh is available as a keyed-in digital Hebrew text with vowels (niqqud) in \"all\" of the above software packages.\n\nThe Mikra'ot Gedolot Haketer package includes not only the vowels, but also cantillation signs. Tanakh with both vowels and cantillation is also available as online freeware from Mechon Mamre (see below). Both versions are based on the Aleppo codex, but Mechon Mamre's edition is based on the editing method of Rabbi Mordecai Breuer, which differs slightly from the Mikra'ot Gedolot Haketer edition in some small details.\n\nBoth Targum Onkelos on the Torah and Targum Jonathan on Nevi'im are vowelized (based on Yemenite manuscripts) in the digital texts of Mikra'ot Gedolot Haketer. Targum Onkelos is vowelized in the Judaic Bookshelf package.\n\nThe Mishnah is included as a keyed-in digital Hebrew text with vowels in all of the general software packages above. The vowels in the \"Halamish\" package seem to be based upon the Albeck edition of the Mishnah (see Mishnah).\n\nSiddur: Digital \"siddurim\" with vowels (according to various customs) are included in DBS (Ashkenaz, Sefard, Sefaradi/Edot Mizrah), Judaic Bookshelf (Ashkenaz, Sefard), and Ariel (Ashkenaz, Sefard, Sefaradi/Edot Mizrah). The latest version of DBS (version 10) also includes \"mahzorim\", \"selihot\", and the Passover Haggadah.\n\nPopular ethical works are normally vowelized in published editions. DBS's collection of such works includes vowels in the electronic editions.\n\nSome of these are also vowelized in DBS.\n\nThis project is based on page-images of over 80,000 scanned Jewish books . The search engine allows to search in over 65,000 of these volumes. It is possible to add additional libraries (Mosad Harav Kook, Machon Yerushalayim Publications, Ahavat Shalom Publishers, and Kehot Publication Society). Additionally, the user can find books by topic. The system has features which turns it to a learning tool.\n\n\"Otzar ha-Poskim\" produces \"Otzar ha-Shut\" (hyperlinked images of individual responsa indexed according to the order of the Shulhan Arukh). This package also includes \"Halamish\" (see above).\n\nThe Steinsaltz Talmud is available as searchable PDF images on CD-ROM. All material from the printed edition is included, but it can be copied and pasted only as images and not as digital text.\n\nText study projects at allow contributors to help build free content Torah databases at Wikimedia through volunteer typing and editing. Please note that in most instances, these projects proceed much faster in Hebrew than in English.\n\nAll of the databases listed in the main article are patented commercial products, and may not be used without permission of the copyright holders. There are also some online projects that make either digital texts, or public domain images of old books, available to the public for free:\n\nHebrew Wikisource contains thousands of free content Torah texts in a digital library that is continually being expanded and improved by volunteers.\n\nThe ארון הספרים היהודי (Aron Ha-Sefarim Ha-Yehudi) project at Wikisource has hundreds of texts available online.\n\nThis website was founded in order to preserve old American Hebrew books that are out of print or circulation, but it expanded its mission \"to include all Torah Seforim (=books) ever printed\". About 50,000 out-of-print books and journals may be downloaded as PDF images. While many titles are in the public domain in the United States, they may not be in the public domain in other countries. Additionally, there are also many copyrighted works that have been submitted by the original authors or their families for inclusion within this website.\n\nThe website supports textual search, using optical character recognition to convert the images into text.\n\nMechon Mamre makes the following digital Hebrew texts available as freeware (but claims a copyright on them):\nThe digital texts available at Snunit are taken (with permission) from Mechon Mamre.\n\nA wide variety of primary texts, including many of R' Yosef Qafih's (\"Kapach\") and other more critical editions.\n\nSefaria is a free culture project that includes interactive bilingual texts collected from public sources or created by volunteer translators. Sefaria highlights interconnections between texts from Tanakh, Mishnah, Talmud, Midrash, Halakha, Kabbalah, Chasidut and includes a free tool for making source sheets.\n\nIn February 2017, it was announced that the Koren/Steinsaltz English translation of the Talmud and the Steinsaltz Hebrew translation of the talmud would both be placed into the commons with a CC-BY-NC license, and made available through Sefaria.\n\nSages of Ashkenaz provides free digital text to various Ashkenazi seforim.\n\n\"Seforim Online\" (\"seforim\" means \"books\") provides PDF images of several hundred classic rabbinic texts for downloading. Many or most of them are hard-to-find or rare editions, and all are in the public domain.\n\nProvides single point of search and access to many Hebrew and English texts available on the Internet\n\nA convenient way to search through many Hebrew texts directly from your browser. It also allows you to narrow your search down to a specific text or genre of texts.\n"}
{"id": "1712428", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1712428", "title": "Tuccia", "text": "Tuccia\n\nTuccia was an ancient Roman Vestal Virgin whose chastity was questioned by a spurious accusation. When the piety of holy men and women was doubted by sceptics, the gods could perform miracles to vindicate them. In Tuccia's case she utilized a flat perforated basket to carry water, without the water falling to the ground through the sieve.\n\nTuccia's decision to prove her innocence is recounted:\n\nTuccia proved her innocence by carrying a sieve full of water from the Tiber to the Temple of Vesta [Augustine, De Civitate Dei, X, 16, in Worsfold, 69].\n\nThe Vestal Tuccia was celebrated in Pliny the Elder's \"Natural History\" (28: 12) and Petrarch's \"Triumph of Chastity\" in \"Triumphs\". However, in Juvenal's \"Satire VI\" (famously renamed 'Against Women') he references her as one of many lascivious women.\n\nBy the late Middle Ages, the image of Tuccia and her sieve became associated with the virtue of chastity. Paintings of chaste women would often include a sieve and this symbol figures prominently in many depictions of England's \"Virgin Queen\" Elizabeth I in the late sixteenth century.\n\n\n<br>\n"}
{"id": "6563879", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6563879", "title": "Ukulan-tojon", "text": "Ukulan-tojon\n\nUkulan-tojon or Ed'uget-tojon, Ed'uget-bootur was the chief god of water spirit of the Yakuts and god of all spirits and son of Kayra.\n\n"}
{"id": "31938", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31938", "title": "Undead", "text": "Undead\n\nThe undead are beings in mythology, legend, or fiction that are deceased but behave as if they were alive. A common example of an undead being is a corpse reanimated by supernatural forces, by the application of either the deceased's own life force or that of another being (such as a demon).\n\nThe undead may be incorporeal like ghosts, or corporeal like vampires and zombies. The undead are featured in the belief systems of most cultures, and appear in many works of fantasy and horror fiction. The term is also occasionally used for putative non-supernatural cases of re-animation, from early experiments like Robert E. Cornish's to future sciences such as chemical brain preservation and cryonics.\n\nBram Stoker considered using the title, \"The Un-Dead\", for his novel \"Dracula\" (1897), and use of the term in the novel is mostly responsible for the modern sense of the word. The word does appear in English before Stoker but with the more literal sense of \"alive\" or \"not dead\", for which citations can be found in the \"Oxford English Dictionary\". In one passage, \"Nosferatu\" is given as an \"Eastern European\" synonym for \"un-dead\". \n\nStoker's use of the term \"undead\" refers only to vampires; the extension to other types of supernatural beings arose later. Most commonly, it is now taken to refer to supernatural beings which had at one point been alive and continue to display some aspects of life after death, but the usage is highly variable.\n\nIn Bram Stoker's novel \"Dracula\", Van Helsing describes the Un-Dead as the following:\nLater notable 19th-century stories about the avenging undead included Ambrose Bierce's \"The Death of Halpin Frayser\", and various Gothic Romanticism tales by Edgar Allan Poe. Though their works could not be properly considered zombie fiction, the supernatural tales of Bierce and Poe would prove influential on later writers such as H. P. Lovecraft, by Lovecraft's own admission.\nIn the Harry Potter series, Lord Voldemort uses reanimated dead bodies that are placed under his control by his dark magic powers as his guardians. They are known as Inferi.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47277547", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47277547", "title": "Urdhva lokas", "text": "Urdhva lokas\n\nThe urdhva lokas or upper spheres of the world are composed of seven lokas or \"world\" according to Hindu mythology. The detailed explanation of them is found in Vishnu Purana.\n\n\nThese three lower spheres are termed transitory: the three highest, Jana, Tapa, and Satya, are styled durable 4: Maharloka, as situated between the two, has also a mixed character; for although it is deserted at the end of the Kalpa, it was not destroyed yet.\n\n"}
{"id": "8055317", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8055317", "title": "Walter Day", "text": "Walter Day\n\nWalter Aldro Day, Jr. (born May 14, 1949) is an American businessman, historian, and the founder of Twin Galaxies, an American organization that tracks video game world records and conducts a program of electronic-gaming promotions. Day is an authority on video game scorekeeping records, who in 2010 retired from the industry to pursue a career in music.\n\nDay was born in Oakland, California, on May 14, 1949. His father worked for the Federal government of the United States as a purchaser of jet engines. Day enrolled at Salem State College in 1967 and left the school in 1978 without obtaining a degree. He later moved to the city of Boston and pursued the practice of Transcendental Meditation.\n\nDay has had several professions and hobbies during his life, including being an oil trader, landlord, vintage-newspaper vendor, musician and video arcade owner.\n\nAfter moving to the town of Fairfield, Iowa, Day sold commemorative newspapers for a living and in 1980 went to Houston, Texas, to become an oil futures trader. Discouraged, Day moved back to Fairfield and became a landlord and purchased the Twin Galaxies arcade in Ottumwa, Iowa, in 1981. After reading the January 18, 1982 issue of \"Time\", which featured video games on its cover, Day was inspired to create an international scoreboard database. According to Day's company web site, within six months he was receiving 50 to 75 phone calls per day from video game players around the world wanting to report their high scores. Later, Day became \"known as the king of video game stats\" and his scoreboard was published in Joystik and Video Games magazine every month.\n\nBeginning in the summer of 1983, Walter Day became the official supplier of verified video game scores to Guinness World Records. It was the first time that Guinness World Records had ever recognized video games as a valid category, citing the problems faced with the different versions of the games, as well as a myriad of bugs, and the inability to verify video game claims through the mail. Walter Day's organization Twin Galaxies was able to provide Guinness World Records with verified scores that were adjudicated in person during a series of annual contests held each summer during 1983-1985. David Boehm, then-publisher of Guinness World Records, named Day the Guinness ‘Assistant-Editor’ in charge of video game scores and records. The verified world records appeared in the 1984 to 1986 editions of the Guinness Book of World Records. Day closed his Ottumwa arcade in 1984 but continued his international score keeping activities through his company Twin Galaxies.Day represented Guinness World Records on July 2, 1985, in Victoria BC, Canada, when Mark Sutton was proclaimed the new world record pole-sitter after a successful 488-day stint perched atop a pole.\n\nDay also verified competitive foosball records and conducted in 1985 the Twin Galaxies Iron Man Contest which saw 10 competitors attempt to keep a single game going for 100 hours on one quarter in hopes of winning $10,000.\n\nIn November 2004, Day joined forces with Guinness World Records science & technology editor David Hawksett at Sweden's Dreamhack 2004 LAN event to verify a new world record on the largest number of separate computers connected in a single LAN network.\n\nIn 2008, Day's long-time work as a video game adjudicator and eSports pioneer inspired the creation of the Guinness World Records - Gamer's Edition.\n\nOn August 11, 2017, in Helsinki, Finland, Day took the stage during the science fiction Hugo Awards ceremonies to present a Guinness World Records citation that recognized the Hugo Awards as history's longest-running science fiction award. This same presentation was repeated the following year as Day presented this same award again on August 16, 2018, during the 2018 Hugo Awards festivities in San Jose, California.\n\nOn October 14, 2017, Day presented a Guinness World Records citation to the Pinball Expo in Chicago, Illinois, recognizing the Pinball Expo, which was founded in 1985, as history's longest-running pinball event.\n\nAppearing in approximately 20 documentary films as himself, Day’s role as the first eSports pioneer has been thoroughly examined on the big screen. His historical projects using vintage newspapers, high school yearbooks, antique business cards and commemorative trading cards have also appeared on the silver screen as well as in more than 100 TV news broadcasts. A partial list of his appearances in documentary films includes: Icons (2002), Coin-Op TV (2007), (2007), (2007), Frag (2008), The Video Craze (2013), Gamer Age (2014), The King of Arcades (2015), Nintendo Quest (2015) and Man vs Snake (2015). He has also appeared on national TV shows like The Bob Braun Show (1982), ABC-TV’s That’s Incredible (1983), Entertainment Tonight (1985), PM Magazine (1987), CBS This Morning (1988), and Gary Collins’ Hour Magazine (1989). Documentary footage of Walter Day’s early video game career filmed by Lewis Wilson and John Sorflaten in 1982 and 1983 is considered the earliest known attempt to film a documentary on the burgeoning video game culture. That vintage footage was the original source material used widely throughout both and .\n\nBetween 1973 and the early 1980s, Day enjoyed a brief career as an amateur ragtime pianist, publicly performing in Massachusetts (Beverly and Salem), New York State (Livingstone Manor and South Fallsburg), France (Avoriaz and Le Plagne), Switzerland (Brunnen, Leysin, St. Moritz and Arosa) and Fairfield, Iowa. He was self-taught and mastered the form by memorizing the songs, a feat that often took 8 hours of practice per day. His three most prominent performances were at Salem State College Music Festival, Salem, MA, October 22, 1975, the inaugural Spring Celebration, held on the MIU Campus (now MUM) in the new Maharishi Patanjali Golden Dome of Pure Knowledge, March, 1980, and the ‘Legendary Walter Day Plays Ragtime’ concert at the Barhydt Chapel, MUM Campus, Fairfield, Iowa, April 13, 1980.\n\nIn 1997, Day authored a 984-page volume of video game record scores and created a team of volunteers to verify scores nationwide. Day and his staff created the first book of rules for competitive electronic gaming, and his company Twin Galaxies produced an annual 1,000-page book of records and rules. A second edition, of 1000 pages was published in 2007. The publication has become the \"official record book for the worldwide electronic gaming industry\". Day appeared at \"hundreds\" of video game gatherings and competitions wearing a black-and-white-striped referee shirt and became an \"iconic\" figure in video game record keeping.\n\nIn August, 2005, Day led a contingent of video game players to France to issue a formal video game challenge involving video game players in both London and Paris. Day was featured in a three-part documentary filmed by VBS.tv and published on the Internet in 2009, under the title \"Walter Day: Twin Galaxies and the Two Golden Domes\".  Day's contributions to the video game industry were portrayed in the 2007 documentaries \"\" and \"\".\n\nDay retired from the video game industry in May 2010 to pursue a career in music. Since then Day has helped to establish the International Video Game Hall of Fame in Ottumwa and attended the video game art exhibition at the Smithsonian art museum.\n\nDay is widely recognized as the inspiration for Mr. Litwak, the beloved arcade owner in Disney's \"Wreck-It Ralph\" animated film released in November 2012.\n\n\"Ready Player One\" author Ernest Cline says Walter Day (along with Twin Galaxies and Billy Mitchell) were the inspiration for writing his story in 2011, which was later turned into a Steven Spielberg science fiction film in 2018.\n\n"}
{"id": "159668", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=159668", "title": "Western astrology", "text": "Western astrology\n\nWestern astrology is the system of astrology most popular in Western countries. Western astrology is historically based on Ptolemy's \"Tetrabiblos\" (2nd century CE), which in turn was a continuation of Hellenistic and ultimately Babylonian traditions.\n\nWestern astrology is largely horoscopic, that is, it is a form of divination based on the construction of a horoscope for an exact moment, such as a person's birth, in which various cosmic bodies are said to have an influence.\nAstrology in western popular culture is often reduced to sun sign astrology, which considers only the individual's date of birth (i.e. the \"position of the Sun\" at that date).\n\nAstrology is generally regarded as pseudoscientific. It has consistently failed objective tests.\n\nA central principle of astrology is integration within the cosmos. The individual, Earth, and its environment are viewed as a single organism, all parts of which are correlated with each other. Cycles of change that are observed in the heavens are therefore reflective (not causative) of similar cycles of change observed on earth and within the individual. This relationship is expressed in the Hermetic maxim \"as above, so below; as below, so above\", which postulates symmetry between the individual as a microcosm and the celestial environment as a macrocosm.\n\nAt the heart of astrology is the metaphysical principle that mathematical relationships express qualities or 'tones' of energy which manifest in numbers, visual angles, shapes and sounds – all connected within a pattern of proportion. Pythagoras first identified that the pitch of a musical note is in proportion to the length of the string that produces it, and that intervals between harmonious sound frequencies form simple numerical ratios. In a theory known as the Harmony of the Spheres, Pythagoras proposed that the Sun, Moon and planets all emit their own unique hum based on their orbital revolution, and that the quality of life on Earth reflects the tenor of celestial sounds which are physically imperceptible to the human ear. Subsequently, Plato described astronomy and music as \"twinned\" studies of sensual recognition: astronomy for the eyes, music for the ears, and both requiring knowledge of numerical proportions.\n\nLater philosophers retained the close association between astronomy, optics, music and astrology, including Ptolemy, who wrote influential texts on all these topics. Al-Kindi, in the 9th century, developed Ptolemy's ideas in \"De Aspectibus\" which explores many points of relevance to astrology and the use of planetary aspects.\n\nThe zodiac is the belt or band of constellations through which the Sun, Moon, and planets move on their journey across the sky. Astrologers noted these constellations and so attached a particular significance to them. Over time they developed the system of twelve signs of the zodiac, based on twelve of the constellations through which the sun passes throughout the year, those constellations that are \"Enlightened by the mind\". Most western astrologers use the tropical zodiac beginning with the sign of Aries at the Northern hemisphere Vernal Equinox always on or around March 21 of each year. The Western Zodiac is drawn based on the Earth's relationship to fixed, designated positions in the sky, and the Earth's seasons. The Sidereal Zodiac is drawn based on the Earth's position in relation to the constellations, and follows their movements in the sky.\n\nDue to a phenomenon called precession of the equinoxes (where the Earth's axis slowly rotates like a spinning top in a 25,700-year cycle), there is a slow shift in the correspondence between Earth's seasons (and calendar) and the constellations of the zodiac. Thus, the tropical zodiac corresponds with the position of the earth in relation to fixed positions in the sky (Western Astrology), while the sidereal zodiac is drawn based on the position in relation to the constellations (sidereal zodiac).\n\nIn modern Western astrology the signs of the zodiac are believed to represent twelve basic personality types or characteristic modes of expression. The twelve signs are divided into four elements fire, earth, air and water. Fire and air signs are considered masculine, while water and earth signs are considered feminine. The twelve signs are also divided into three qualities, Cardinal, fixed and mutable.\n\nZodiac sign for an individual depends on the placement of planets and the ascendant in that sign. If a person has nothing placed in a particular sign, that sign will play no active role in their personality. On the other hand, a person with, for example, both the sun and moon in Cancer, will strongly display the characteristics of that sign in their make up.\n\nNewspapers often print astrology columns which purport to provide guidance on what might occur in a day in relation to the sign of the zodiac that included the sun when the person was born. Astrologers refer to this as the \"sun sign\", but it is often commonly called the \"star sign\". These predictions are vague or general; so much so that even practising astrologers consider them of little to no value. Experiments have shown that when people are shown a newspaper horoscope for their own sign along with a newspaper horoscope for a different sign, they judge them to be equally accurate on the average. Other tests have been performed on complete, personalized horoscopes cast by professional astrologers, and have shown similarly disappointing results, contrary to the claims of professional astrologers.\n\nIn modern Western astrology the planets represent basic drives or impulses in the human psyche. These planets differ from the definition of a planet in astronomy in that the sun, moon, and recently, Pluto and Ceres (considered as dwarf planets in astronomy), are all considered to be planets for the purposes of astrology. Each planet is also said to be the ruler of one or two zodiac signs. The three modern planets have each been assigned rulership of a zodiac sign by astrologers and Ceres has been suggested as the ruler of Taurus or Virgo. Traditionally rulership of the signs was, according to Ptolemy, based on seasonal derivations and astronomical measurement, whereby the luminaries being the brightest planets were given rulership of the brightest months of the year and Saturn the coldest furthest classical planet was given to the coldest months of the year, with the other planets ruling the remaining signs as per astronomical measurement. It is noteworthy that the modern rulerships do not follow the same logic.\n\nThe astrological 'planets' are the seven heavenly bodies known to the ancients. The sun and moon, also known as 'the lights', are included as they were thought to act like the astronomical planets. Astrologers call Mercury, Venus and Mars the 'personal planets', as they represent the most immediate drives. The 'lights' symbolise respectively the existential and sensitive fundamentals of the individuality.\n\nThe following table summarizes the rulership by the seven classically known planets of each of the twelve astrological signs, together with their effects on world events, people and the earth itself as understood in the Middle Ages.\n\nAlso important in astrology are the moon's nodes. The nodes are where the moon's path crosses the ecliptic. The North, or Ascending Node marks the place where the moon crosses from South to North (or ascends), while the South, or Descending Node marks where the moon crosses from North to South (or descends). While Lunar nodes are not considered by Western astrologers to be as important a factor as each of the planets, they are thought to mark sensitive areas that are worth taking into account.\n\n\nIn astrology, \"essential dignity\" is the strength of a planet or point's zodiac position, judged only by its position by sign and degree, what the pre-eminent 17th-century astrologer William Lilly called \"the strength, fortitude or debility of the Planets [or] significators.\" In other words, essential dignity seeks to view the strengths of a planet or point as though it were isolated from other factors in the sky of the natal chart. Traditionally, there are five dignities: domicile and detriment, exaltation and fall, triplicity, terms, and face. However, the later two have diminished in usage. A planet's domicile is the zodiac sign over which it has rulership.\n\nWestern astrology is based mainly upon the construction of a horoscope, which is a map or \"chart\" of the heavens at a particular moment. The moment chosen is the beginning of the existence of the subject of the horoscope, as it is believed that the subject will carry with it the pattern of the heavens from that moment throughout its life. The most common form of horoscope is the natal chart based on the moment of a person's birth; though in theory a horoscope can be drawn up for the beginning of anything, from a business enterprise to the foundation of a nation state.\nIn Western horoscopic astrology the interpretation of a horoscope is governed by:\n\nSome astrologers also use the position of various mathematical points such as the Arabic parts.\n\nThere are four primary angles in the horoscope (though the cusps of the houses are often included as important angles by some astrologers).\n\n\nThe ascendant is generally considered the most important and personalized angle in the horoscope by the vast majority of astrologers. It signifies a person's awakening consciousness, in the same way that the Sun's appearance on the eastern horizon signifies the dawn of a new day. Due to the fact that the ascendant is specific to a particular time and place, it signifies the individual environment and conditioning that a person receives during their upbringing, and also the circumstances of their childhood. For this reason, the ascendant is also concerned with how a person has learned to present him or herself to the world, especially in public and in impersonal situations.\n\nThe opposite point to the ascendant in the west is the descendant, which denotes how a person reacts in their relationships with others. It also show the kind of person we are likely to be attracted to, and our ability to form romantic attachments. In most house systems the descendant lies on the cusp of the 7th house of the horoscope.\n\n\nThe opposite point to the midheaven is known as the imum coeli. For astrologers the nadir or IC traditionally indicates the circumstances at the beginning and end of a person's life, their parents and the parental home, and their own domestic life. In \"quadrant house\" systems it lies on the cusp of the 4th house of the horoscope.\n\nThe horoscope is divided by astrologers into 12 portions called the houses. The houses of the horoscope are interpreted as being 12 different spheres of life or activity. There are various ways of calculating the houses in the horoscope or birth chart. However, there is no dispute about their meanings, and the 12 houses\n\nMany modern astrologers assume that the houses relate to their corresponding signs, i.e. that the first house has a natural affinity with the first sign, Aries, and so on.\n\nThe aspects are the angles the planets make to each other in the horoscope, and also to the ascendant, midheaven, descendant and nadir. The aspects are measured by the angular distance along the ecliptic in degrees and minutes of celestial longitude between two points, as viewed from the earth. They indicate focal points in the horoscope where the energies involved are given extra emphasis. The more exact the angle, the more powerful the aspect, although an allowance of a few degrees each side of the aspect called an \"orb\" is allowed for interpretation. The following are the aspects in order of importance\n\n\nThese are the planets discovered in modern times, which have since been assigned meanings by Western astrologers.\n\nThere are two camps of thought among western astrologers about the \"starting point\", 0 degrees Aries, in the zodiac. Sidereal astrology uses a fixed starting point in the background of stars, while tropical astrology, used by the majority of Western astrologers, chooses as a starting point the position of the Sun against the background of stars at the Northern hemisphere vernal equinox (i.e. when the Sun position against the heavens crosses over from the southern hemisphere to the northern hemisphere) each year.\n\nAs the Earth spins on its axis, it \"wobbles\" like a top, causing the vernal equinox to move gradually backwards against the star background, (a phenomenon known as the Precession of the equinoxes) at a rate of about 30 degrees (one Zodiacal sign length) every 2,160 years. Thus the two zodiacs would be aligned only once every 26,000 years. They were aligned about 2,000 years ago when the zodiac was originally established.\n\nThis phenomenon gives us the conceptual basis for the Age of Aquarius, whose \"dawning\" coincides with the movement of the vernal equinox across the cusp from Pisces to Aquarius in the star background.\n\nThe majority of professional astrologers rely on performing astrology-based personality tests and making relevant predictions about the remunerator's future. Those who continue to have faith in astrology have been characterised as doing so \"in spite of the fact that there is no verified scientific basis for their beliefs, and indeed that there is strong evidence to the contrary\".\n\nAstrology has not demonstrated its effectiveness in controlled studies and has no scientific validity, and as such, is regarded as pseudoscience. There is no proposed mechanism of action by which the positions and motions of stars and planets could affect people and events on Earth that does not contradict well understood, basic aspects of biology and physics.\n\nWhere astrology has made falsifiable predictions, it has been falsified. The most famous test was headed by Shawn Carlson and included a committee of scientists and a committee of astrologers. It led to the conclusion that natal astrology performed no better than chance.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12166550", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12166550", "title": "Woodenfish", "text": "Woodenfish\n\nWoodenfish Foundation, previously known as \"Woodenfish Project,\" is an international Buddhist educational NGO with operations in the United States and China. Yifa founded the \"Woodenfish Project\" in 2002 at Fo Guang Shan in Kaohsiung, Taiwan. The initial flagship program, \"Humanistic Buddhist Monastic Life Program\" aims to allow students from around the world to authentically experience Humanistic Buddhism for one month each summer within a monastic context.\n\nIn the past 13 years, Woodenfish program alumni and Yifa have driven the organizational growth to expand into programming in the United States and mainland China. Woodenfish Foundation became a registered 501(c)(3) organization in California in 2007. Between 2009 and 2015, Woodenfish has run 13 programs in mainland China. In 2015, Woodenfish opened New York City headquarters and hired its first full-time staff.\n\nThe Woodenfish Foundation was granted special consultative status with the United Nations through ECOSOC in July 2016.\n\nIn its second decade, Woodenfish continues to build its base within China and the United States, aiming to fulfill its mission to the greatest extent and offer opportunities for scholastic inquiry and collaboration, and contemplative and cross-cultural peace training.\n\nThe namesake comes from the wooden fish instrument, the most common religious musical instrument used in East Asian Buddhism.\n\nWoodenfish Foundation aims to establish a global network of ethical and compassionate professionals, scholars, and leaders. Woodenfish cultivates ongoing exploration of one's inner life, and inspires meaningful engagement with the pressing global issues of modern times. As of one of the few Buddhist organizations with operations in New York and P.R. China, Woodenfish is uniquely positioned to further meaningful dialogue and mutual understanding within what may be considered the most significant bilateral relationship of the 21st century. Woodenfish Foundation envisions a world in which the actions of individuals and communities around the world cultivate peace, compassion, preservation of human dignity and sustainable living.\n\nWoodenfish Foundation programs include Humanistic Buddhist Monastic Life Program (HBMLP), Buddhism in China Series, Sutra Translation Councils, Cultural peace training program, lay dharma teacher training program, and camps for Chinese youth.\n\nThe primary objective of the HBMLP program is to promote the understanding of Chinese Buddhism by exposing the participants to the daily practice of Humanistic Buddhism within a traditional Buddhist monastery. HBMLP provides students interested in the study of religion, Buddhism and/or Chinese culture and language first-hand experience in the lifestyle, training, and functions of contemporary Chinese Buddhist monastics. Classes taught on various levels by the knowledgeable monastics and staff, inform students on Buddhist history, doctrine and philosophy, as well as classes offered regarding the liturgical instruments, monastic etiquette, meditation practice and other functions and rituals. All instruction is given in English or is translated from Mandarin. Other key elements of the program include:\n\nThrough the “Buddhism in China Series”, Woodenfish aims to aid the development of emerging scholars in the West with research interests in Chinese Buddhism or related fields by offering the opportunity for direct, intensive academic engagement with major historical centers of Buddhism in China. Each year, from 2009 to 2012 the program took groups of scholars to study religious sites in different regions of China. Through personal tours, participants gain on-the-ground knowledge of the history and diversity of Buddhism in China, its relationship to other cultural institutions, and its ongoing vitality. Special attention was given to introducing participants to potential sources and avenues for research, and promoting interaction with Chinese scholars and religious professionals. The program was also geared towards fostering international exchange and building networks among scholars of Chinese religion, history, and culture.\n\nStarting from 2012, Woodenfish launched the “Buddhism in China—Connecting with the Source Program.” This is a semi-annual program that offers faculty, graduate students, and advanced undergraduates opportunities for direct and intensive engagement with important historical centers of Chinese Buddhism and culture. Previous programs have included a Platform Sutra Seminar in Nanhua Temple led by Peter Gregory (Smith College), a Guanyin Seminar on Mt. Putuo by Chün-fang Yü (Columbia University) and Bhikkhuni Vinaya Seminar by Ann Heirman (Ghent University) at Sichuan Nuns College. In the summer of 2014, renowned scholar Professor Daniel B. Stevenson was invited on Tiantai Study to lead a seminar at Mt. Tiantai.\n\nWith 14 years of programming since 2002, the Woodenfish network is global, and includes over 1,000 members pursuing a variety of professions. Participants hail from some of the best universities across the globe, with many alumni from Princeton University, Stanford University, Yale University, and Harvard University. Participants are diverse in backgrounds but there is a concentration of Asian Studies, Buddhist Studies, and Comparative Religion majors. The participants may be in their undergraduate years, may be working on their Ph.D., or working as young professionals across a variety of industries. The most popular career fields for Woodenfish alumni include academia/higher education, law, medicine, and international development/non-profit management.\n\n"}
{"id": "45669755", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45669755", "title": "Yenghe hatam", "text": "Yenghe hatam\n\nYenghe hatam is one of the four formulas (the other three being Ashem Vohu, Ahuna Vairya and Airyaman ishya) of the Gathic canon, that is, part of the group of texts composed in the more archaic dialect of the Avestan language.\n\n<poem>ýenghê hâtãm âat ýesne paitî\nvanghô mazdå ahurô vaêthâ\nashât hacâ\nýånghãmcâ tãscâ tåscâ ýazamaide.\n\nAmong the living human beings whom\nAhura Mazda recognizes as being more excellent\nby reason of their knowledge and practice of virtues\nwe revere all such men and women.</poem>\n\nor: \n\nIndeed Mazda Ahura, the Wise God, knows better any person among men and women for his or her veneration. \n\nWe, on our part, venerate all such men and women.\n\nor: \n\nWe praise those men and women from amongst the living, whose actions are good and whose goodness is judged by righteous Ahura Mazda.\n"}
