{"id": "16923077", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16923077", "title": "A Complete Collection of Genteel and Ingenious Conversation", "text": "A Complete Collection of Genteel and Ingenious Conversation\n\nA Complete Collection of genteel and ingenious Conversation, according to the most polite mode and method now used at Court, and in the best Companies of England, commonly known as A Complete Collection of Genteel and Ingenious Conversation, or more simply as Polite Conversation is a book by Jonathan Swift offering an ironic and satirical commentary on the perceived banality of conversation among the upper classes in early-18th century Great Britain written in the form of a reference guide for those lacking in conversational skill. It was completed in 1731, but may have been conceived of as early as 1704. One of Swift's last works, it was written in between bouts of vertigo and was not presented for publication until 1738.\n\n"}
{"id": "49621462", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49621462", "title": "A Long Way Home (book)", "text": "A Long Way Home (book)\n\nA Long Way Home is a non-fiction book by Indian-Australian businessman Saroo Brierley written together with Larry Buttrose. The text was initially released in Australia on 24 June 2013 via Viking, then re-released internationally in 2014, and adapted into a major film in 2016. It is reported that Brierley currently writes a prequel to \"A Long Way Home\", “the story of both my mothers – biological and adoptive – before I was in the picture.” \n\nIn this authobiographical book, Brierley covers three decades of his life, describing his ordeals and adventures as a lost five-year-old in rural India, his adoption by a wealthy Australian family, and his search for his Indian native family some 25 years later.\n\nIn an interview to ABC Radio Sydney, Larry Buttrose explained that \"From the very first time I came in contact with the story, I knew it was a fantastic story... It was a film crying to be made\". Buttrose recorded hours of interviews with both Saroo and his adoptive mother and completed a 70,000-word manuscript in a hotel room in Kolkata to meet a tough three-month deadline set by the publisher.\n\nKarina Wetherbee of \"Vail Daily\" stated \"There is a real feeling of catharsis when reading Brierley's astounding narrative, in the classic sense of a happy ending, for the journey of the author as a boy — and then again as a young man — evokes the audacity of a fable, but it is set in the real world, a place where wonderment and miraculous occurrences can often seem wanting\". Dianne Dempsey of \"The Sydney Morning Herald\" commented \"Brierley writes in a straightforward manner without trying to do anything fancy except tell a remarkable story. As well as the tale of his quest, he provides an informative and fascinating insight into how Third World families live with, and somehow survive, their poverty\". Taylor Dibbert of \"International Policy Digest\" added \"It’s not hard to understand why this work has received such high praise. This is an honest story of pain, struggle, hope and love. He concludes the book on a reflective note... Brierley’s journey is inspirational and deeply moving; it’s another reminder of how potent passion and the human spirit actually are\".\n\nIn 2016, the book was adapted into major international feature film \"Lion\", directed by Garth Davis and starring Dev Patel, Nicole Kidman and Rooney Mara. The film premiered at the 2016 Toronto International Film Festival. Dev Patel was nominated for the Academy Award for Best Supporting Actor.\n\n"}
{"id": "7551188", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7551188", "title": "Accusative absolute", "text": "Accusative absolute\n\nThe accusative absolute is a grammatical construction found in some languages. It is an absolute construction found in the accusative case.\nIn ancient Greek, the accusative case is used adverbially with participles of impersonal verbs. It is similar in usage to the genitive absolute. For example:\nIn German, a noun phrase can be put in the accusative to indicate that the subject of the sentence has the property described. For example:\n\nThe accusative absolute is sometimes found in place of the ablative absolute in the Latin of Late Antiquity as, for example, in the writings of Gregory of Tours and Jordanes. This likely arose when the pronunciation of the ablative and accusative singulars merged, since the final \"-m\" of the accusative singular was no longer pronounced, even in the Classical era. But the accusative absolute is also found with plural nouns where the ablative and accusative are not similar in pronunciation.\n"}
{"id": "14627244", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14627244", "title": "Alfred Twardecki", "text": "Alfred Twardecki\n\nAlfred Twardecki (born 4 February 1962) is a Polish historian of antiquity and translator. He works as curator at the Department of Ancient and Eastern Christian Art in the National Museum in Warsaw. He graduated in 1986 from the Department of History of Warsaw University.\n\nHe served as assistant in the Chair of Ancient History of the Warsaw University from 1986 until 1992 when he started at the National Museum in Warsaw. He is the author of many articles and books about Ancient Greece, a scholarship holder of the Centre of Mediterranean Archaeology of the Warsaw University and Deutscher Akademischer Austausch Dienst (DAAD), guest of École française d'Athènes, director of the Cooperation Program between the Warsaw National Museum and the Kerch Republican Historic-Cultural Museum (Crimea, Ukraine). Since 2008 he is also director of Polish Archaeological Mission \"Tyritake\" of National Museum in Warsaw. Mission is indefinitely suspended since year 2014. Since 1 February 2012 is curator in chief of the Collection of Ancient and Eastern Christian Art. Since 2016 he is also director of Polish Archaeological Mission \"Olbia\" (Pontic Olbia). \n\nMarried, two kids.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56754831", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56754831", "title": "Amand Dalem", "text": "Amand Dalem\n\nAmand Dalem (5 June 1938 – 28 February 2018) was a Belgian politician who was Mayor of Rochefort (1970–1994), Senator (1979–1994), Minister of the Walloon Government (1985–1992), and Governor of the Province of Namur (1994–2007).\n"}
{"id": "58569258", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58569258", "title": "Amarna letter EA 170", "text": "Amarna letter EA 170\n\nAmarna letter EA 170, titled: \"To Aziru in Egypt\" is a moderate length letter (44 lines of text), from Aziru, the leader of the region of Amurru. EA 170 is the fifteenth letter in a series of 16 letters regarding Aziru. \n\nAs the title states, Aziru has finally visited Egypt to see the Pharaoh; the letter is mostly local home news, but does report the takeover over the Amqu region, in continued regional warfare.\n\nEA 170 is a highly inscribed, undamaged Amarna letter, (see here: ), and can be seen to be inscribed on the \"Obverse\", Bottom, \"Reverse\", and Right & Left sides.\n\nThe Amarna letters, about 300, numbered up to EA 382, are a mid 14th century BC, about 1360 BC and 20–25 years later, correspondence. The initial corpus of letters were found at Akhenaten's city Akhetaten, in the floor of the Bureau of Correspondence of Pharaoh; others were later found, adding to the body of letters.\n\nLetter EA 170 (also see here-(Obverse): ), is numbered VAT 327, from the Vorderasiatisches Museum Berlin.\n\nEA 170, letter fifteen of a series of 16 (2 from the Pharaoh), from Aziru of the Amurru kingdom, or his son, or stand-in. This letter is by Baaluya & Bet-ili. (Not a linear, line-by-line translation.)\n\"Obverse\" (See here: )\n\n\"Reverse\" (See here: )\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2925613", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2925613", "title": "Art fabrication", "text": "Art fabrication\n\nArt fabrication is a process or service relating to the production of large or technically difficult artworks.\n\nWhen a lone artist or designer is incapable or chooses not to realize the creation of his or her own design or conception, he or she may enlist the assistance of an art fabrication studio. Typically, an art fabrication studio has access to the resources, specialized machinery, and labor necessary to execute particularly complex projects.\n\nLippincott, Inc., founded in 1966 by Donald Lippincott and Roxanne Everett, was the first company to devote itself exclusively to art fabrication using industrial techniques. The company encouraged a collaborative relationship between artists and the fabrication crew, allowing the creation of work using media that artists had not previously used. Lippincott, Inc. fabricated work for almost 100 artists, including Barnett Newman, Louise Nevelson, Donald Judd, Claes Oldenburg, Robert Indiana, and Ellsworth Kelly.\n\nOther notable fabricators include:\n"}
{"id": "206682", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=206682", "title": "Caricature", "text": "Caricature\n\nA caricature is a rendered image showing the features of its subject in a simplified or exaggerated way through sketching, pencil strokes, or through other artistic drawings.\n\nIn literature, a caricature is a description of a person using exaggeration of some characteristics and oversimplification of others.\n\nCaricatures can be insulting or complimentary and can serve a political purpose or be drawn solely for entertainment. Caricatures of politicians are commonly used in editorial cartoons, while caricatures of movie stars are often found in entertainment magazines.\n\nThe term is derived from the Italian \"caricare\"—to charge or load. An early definition occurs in the English doctor Thomas Browne's \"Christian Morals\", published posthumously in 1716.\n\nwith the footnote:\n\nThus, the word \"caricature\" essentially means a \"loaded portrait\". Until the mid 19th century, it was commonly and mistakenly believed that the term shared the same root as the French 'charcuterie', likely owing to Parisian street artists using cured meats in their satirical portrayal of public figures.\n\nSome of the earliest caricatures are found in the works of Leonardo da Vinci, who actively sought people with deformities to use as models. The point was to offer an impression of the original which was more striking than a portrait.\n\nCaricature took a road to its first successes in the closed aristocratic circles of France and Italy, where such portraits could be passed about for mutual enjoyment.\n\nWhile the first book on caricature drawing to be published in England was Mary Darly's \"A Book of Caricaturas\" (c. 1762), the first known North American caricatures were drawn in 1759 during the battle for Quebec. These caricatures were the work of Brig.-Gen. George Townshend whose caricatures of British General James Wolfe, depicted as \"Deformed and crass and hideous\" (Snell), were drawn to amuse fellow officers. Elsewhere, two great practitioners of the art of caricature in 18th-century Britain were Thomas Rowlandson (1756–1827) and James Gillray (1757–1815). Rowlandson was more of an artist and his work took its inspiration mostly from the public at large. Gillray was more concerned with the vicious visual satirisation of political life. They were, however, great friends and caroused together in the pubs of London.\n\nIn a lecture titled \"The History and Art of Caricature\", the British caricaturist Ted Harrison said that the caricaturist can choose to either mock or wound the subject with an effective caricature. Drawing caricatures can simply be a form of entertainment and amusement – in which case gentle mockery is in order – or the art can be employed to make a serious social or political point. A caricaturist draws on (1) the natural characteristics of the subject (the big ears, long nose, etc.); (2) the acquired characteristics (stoop, scars, facial lines etc.); and (3) the vanities (choice of hair style, spectacles, clothes, expressions, and mannerisms).\n\n\nThere have been some efforts to produce caricatures automatically or semi-automatically using computer graphics techniques. For example, a system proposed by Akleman et al. provides warping tools specifically designed toward rapidly producing caricatures. There are very few software programs designed specifically for automatically creating caricatures.\n\nComputer graphic system requires quite different skill sets to design a caricature as compared to the caricatures created on paper. Thus using a computer in the digital production of caricatures requires advanced knowledge of the program's functionality. Rather than being a simpler method of caricature creation, it can be a more complex method of creating images that feature finer coloring textures than can be created using more traditional methods.\n\nA milestone in formally defining caricature was Susan Brennan's master's thesis in 1982. In her system, caricature was formalized as the process of exaggerating differences from an average face. For example, if Prince Charles has more prominent ears than the average person, in his caricature the ears will be much larger than normal. Brennan's system implemented this idea in a partially automated fashion as follows: the operator was required to input a frontal drawing of the desired person having a standardized topology (the number and ordering of lines for every face). She obtained a corresponding drawing of an average male face. Then, the particular face was caricatured simply by subtracting from the particular face the corresponding point on the mean face (the origin being placed in the middle of the face), scaling this difference by a factor larger than one, and adding the scaled difference back onto the mean face.\n\nThough Brennan's formalization was introduced in the 1980s, it remains relevant in recent work. Mo et al. refined the idea by noting that the population variance of the feature should be taken into account. For example, the distance between the eyes varies less than other features such as the size of the nose. Thus even a small variation in the eye spacing is unusual and should be exaggerated, whereas a correspondingly small change in the nose size relative to the mean would not be unusual enough to be worthy of exaggeration.\n\nOn the other hand, Liang et al. argue that caricature varies depending on the artist and cannot be captured in a single definition. Their system uses machine learning techniques to automatically learn and mimic the style of a particular caricature artist, given training data in the form of a number of face photographs and the corresponding caricatures by that artist. The results produced by computer graphic systems are arguably not yet of the same quality as those produced by human artists. For example, most systems are restricted to exactly frontal poses, whereas many or even most manually produced caricatures (and face portraits in general) choose an off-center \"three-quarters\" view. Brennan's caricature drawings were frontal-pose line drawings. More recent systems can produce caricatures in a variety of styles, including direct geometric distortion of photographs.\n\nBrennan's caricature generator was used to test recognition of caricatures. Rhodes, Brennan and Carey demonstrated that caricatures were recognised more accurately than the original images. They used line drawn images but Benson and Perrett showed similar effects with photographic quality images. Explanations for this advantage have been based on both norm-based theories of face recognition and exemplar-based theories of face recognition.\n\nBeside the political and public-figure satire, most contemporary caricatures are used as gifts or souvenirs, often drawn by street vendors. For a small fee, a caricature can be drawn specifically (and quickly) for a patron. These are popular at street fairs, carnivals, and even weddings, often with humorous results.\n\nCaricature artists are also popular attractions at many places frequented by tourists, especially oceanfront boardwalks, where vacationers can have a humorous caricature sketched in a few minutes for a small fee. Caricature artists can sometimes be hired for parties, where they will draw caricatures of the guests for their entertainment.\n\nThere are numerous museums dedicated to caricature throughout the world, including the \"Museo de la Caricatura\" of Mexico City, the \"Muzeum Karykatury\" in Warsaw, the Caricatura Museum Frankfurt in Frankfurt, the Wilhelm Busch Museum in Hanover and the \"Cartoonmuseum\" in Basel. The first museum of caricature in the Arab world was opened in March, 2009, at Fayoum, Egypt.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "323135", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=323135", "title": "Daegu", "text": "Daegu\n\nDaegu (; , literally 'large hill'), formerly spelled Taegu and officially known as the Daegu Metropolitan City, is a city in South Korea, the fourth-largest after Seoul, Busan, and Incheon, and the third-largest metropolitan area in the nation with over 2.5 million residents. Daegu and surrounding North Gyeongsang Province are often referred to as Daegu-Gyeongbuk, with a total population over 5 million. \nDaegu is located in south-eastern Korea about from the seacoast, near the Geumho River and its mainstream, Nakdong River in Gyeongsang-do. The Daegu basin, where the city lies, is the central plain of the Yeongnam region. In ancient times, there was a proto-country named Jinhan, to which the current Daegu area belonged. Later, Daegu was part of the Silla Kingdom which unified the Korean Peninsula. During the Joseon Dynasty period, the city was the capital of Gyeongsang-do, which was one of the traditional eight provinces of the country.\n\nDaegu was an economic motor of Korea during the 1960s–1980s period and was especially known for its electronics industry. The humid subtropical climate of Daegu is ideal for producing high-quality apples, thus the nickname, \"Apple City\". Daegu is also known as \"Textile City\". Textiles used to be the pillar industry of the city. With the establishment of the Daegu-Gyeongbuk Free Economic Zone, Daegu is currently focusing on fostering fashion and high-tech industries.\n\nDaegu was the host city of the 22nd World Energy Congress of 2013, the 2011 World Championships in Athletics, and the 2003 Summer Universiade. It also hosted four matches in the 2002 FIFA World Cup. Daegu hosted the World Masters Indoor Championships on March 19–25, 2017. More than 4600 athletes worldwide competed.\n\nArchaeological investigations in the Greater Daegu area have revealed a large number of settlements and burials of the prehistoric Mumun Pottery Period (around 1500–300 BC). In fact, some of the earliest evidence of Mumun settlement in Gyeongsangdo have been excavated from Siji-dong and Seobyeon-dong. Dongcheon-dong is one of the substantial Mumun agricultural villages that have been excavated. The Dongcheon-dong site dates back to the Middle Mumun (around 850–550 BC) and contains the remains of many prehistoric pit-houses and agricultural fields. Megalithic burials (dolmens) have also been found in large numbers in Daegu.\n\nAncient historical texts indicate that during the Proto–Three Kingdoms (Mahan, Jinhan, and Byeonhan) period, Daegu was the site of a chiefdom or walled-town polity known from that time, according to historical records, as Dalgubeol. It was absorbed into the kingdom of Silla no later than the fifth century. The vestiges of the wall can be seen, and relics have been excavated in the current Dalseong Park.\n\nSilla succeeded in unifying the Korean peninsula by defeating the other kingdoms of Baekje and Koguryo in the late seventh century, partly due to assistance from China's Tang Dynasty. Shortly thereafter, in 689, Silla's King Sinmun considered moving the capital from Gyeongju to Daegu, but was unable to do so. This initiative is known only through a single line in the \"Samguk Sagi\", a most valued historical record of ancient Korea by Koryeo Dynasty historian Kim Bu-sik, but it is presumed to indicate both an attempt by the Silla king to reinforce royal authority and the entrenched resistance of the Gyeongju political elites that was the likely cause of the move's failure. The city was given its current name in 757.\n\nIn the late 1990s, archaeologists excavated a large-scale fortified Silla site in Dongcheon-dong, Buk-gu. The site at Locality 2 consists of the remains of 39 raised-floor buildings enclosed by a formidable ditch-and-palisade system. The excavators hypothesize that the fortified site was a permanent military encampment or barracks. Archaeologists also uncovered a large Silla village dating to the sixth to seventh centuries AD at Siji-dong.\n\nDuring the Later Three Kingdoms period, 892–936, Daegu was initially aligned with Hubaekje. In 927, northern Daegu was the site of the Battle of Gong Mountain between the forces of Goryeo under Wang Geon and those of Hubaekje under Gyeon Hwon. In this battle, the forces of Goryeo were crushed and Wang Geon himself was saved only by the heroic deed of his general Shin Sung-gyeom. However, the atrocities of the Hubaekje forces at this time apparently changed local sympathizers to favor Wang Geon, who later became the king of Goryeo.\n\nNumerous place names and local legends in the area still bear witness to the historic battle of 927. Among these are \"Ansim\", which literally means \"peace of mind\", said to be the first place where Wang Geon dared to stop after escaping the battle, and \"Banwol\", or half-moon, where he is said to have stopped and admired the moon before returning to Goryeo. A statue commemorating the battle now stands in northern Daegu, as does a memorial to Sin Sunggyeom.\n\nIn the Goryeo period, the first edition of the \"Tripitaka Koreana\" was stored in Daegu, at the temple of Buinsa. However, this edition was destroyed when the temple was sacked in 1254, during the Mongol invasions of Korea.\n\nDaegu served as an important transportation center during the Joseon Dynasty. She stands in the mid part of the Great Yeongnam Road which ran between Seoul and Busan. It lay at the junction of this arterial road and the roads to Gyeongju and Jinju.\n\nIn 1601, Daegu became the administrative capital of the Gyeongsang-do, which is current Daegu, Busan, Ulsan, Gyeongsangbuk-do, and Gyeongsangnam-do. At about that time, the city began to grow into a major city. The status continued for nearly 300 years, and the city has been transformed as the capital of Gyeongsangbuk-do since Gyeongsang-do was divided into two provinces, Gyeongsangbuk-do (northern Gyeongsang-province) and Gyeongsangnam-do (southern one) in 1896.\n\nDaegu's first regular markets were established during the late Joseon period. The most famous of these is the Yangnyeongsi herbal medicine market. This became a center of herbal trade in Joseon, and even attracted buyers from neighboring countries. Traders from Japan, who were not permitted to leave the Nakdong River valley, hired messengers to visit the market on their behalf. Seomun Market, which stood at the city's west gate at that time, was one of the top-three markets in the Joseon period.\n\nThe Korean hermit kingdom finally opened itself to the outside world in the late 19th century. In 1895, Daegu became the site of one of the country's first modern post offices, as a part of the 'Gab-o' reforms introduced in the aftermath of the Sino-Japanese war.\n\nBeginning in the late 1890s, increasing numbers of foreign merchants and workers started to visit Daegu, which emerged as a modern transportation center of the newly constructed Gyeongbu Line main railroad connecting Seoul and Busan.\n\nIn 1905, the old fortress wall was forcibly destroyed. The wall still survives only in the street names such as the streets Dongseongno and Bukseongno, \"east fortress street\" and \"north fortress street\", which now run where the wall once stood.\n\nIndependence movements against imperial aggressions were outstanding in Daegu. These began as early as 1898, when a branch of the Independence Club was opened in the town. As the demise of the Korean Empire approached in 1907, local citizens led by Seo Sang-don organized the National Debt Repayment Movement. The movement spread nationwide, although it fell short of repaying the national debt through individual donations. Freedom fighting continued after the 1910 annexation, notably during the March 1st movement of 1919. At that time, four major demonstrations took place in Daegu, involving an estimated 23,000 peace-loving citizens.\n\nIn 1946, the Daegu October Incident took place, one of the most serious social disorders since the foundation of the Republic of Korea. An operation by the Korean national police to take control of rioters on October 1 resulted in the death of three student demonstrators and injuries to many others, sparking a massive counter-attack, killing as many as 38 policemen. It was also the site of major demonstrations on February 28, 1960, prior to the presidential election of that year.\n\nDaegu and all of North Gyeongsang province had heavy guerrilla activities in the late 1940s, as thousands of refugees shied away from the fighting in Jeolla province and sought shelters in Daegu. In November 1948, a unit in Daegu joined the mutiny which had begun in Yeosu the previous month.\n\nDuring the Korean War, heavy fighting occurred nearby along the Nakdong River. Daegu sat inside the Pusan Perimeter, however, so remained in South Korean hands throughout the war. As in many other areas during the Korean War, political killings of dissenters were widespread. A large series of engagements was fought around the city to prevent North Korean troops from crossing the Nakdong, the Battle of Taegu.\n\nIn the second half of the 20th century, the city underwent explosive growth, and the population has increased more than tenfold since the end of the Korean War. The city was politically favored during the 18-year-long rule of Park Chung-hee, when it and the surrounding area served as his political base. Daegu champions conservative political ideas and movements today and is a political base for the Saenuri Party.\n\nIn the 1980s, Daegu separated from Gyeongsangbuk-do and became a separately administered provincial-level directly governed city (\"Jikhalsi\"), and was redesignated as a metropolitan city (\"Gwangyeoksi\") in 1995. Today, Daegu is the third-largest metropolitan area in Korea with respect to both population and commerce.\n\nTwo local governments are in the city, the Daegu Metropolitan Government in Jung District and Gyeongbuk Provincial Government in Buk District. The provincial government will be relocated to Andong in its proper province, Gyeongbuk. The mayor and heads of city's eight districts are directly elected by the citizens every four years. The city council has 29 members which consist of 26 from the same number of electoral districts and three proportional representations. They are also directly elected every four years. Most of them are the members of the Liberty Korea Party, the main conservative political party in South Korea. Daegu is a stronghold for the party and has produced two Presidents of the Republic of Korea thus far: Roh Tae-woo and Park Geun-hye. As the capital of the Korean conservatives, the city has wielded strong political influence in elections.\n\nDaegu is divided into 7 districts (\"Gu\") and 1 county (\"Gun\")\n\nDaegu sits in a basin surrounded by low mountains. Palgongsan to the north, Biseulsan to the south, Waryongsan to the west, and a series of smaller hills in the east. The Geumho River flows along the northern and eastern edges of the city, emptying in the Nakdong River west of the city.\n\nDaegu has a cooler version of a humid subtropical climate (Köppen climate classification \"Cwa\") The mountains that comprise the basin trap hot and humid air. Similarly, in winter, cold air lies in the basin. The area receives little precipitation except during the rainy season of summer, and is sunny throughout much of the year. Data gathered since 1961 indicates that the mean temperature for January, the coldest month in Daegu, is and that for August, the warmest month, is . The City's lowest record temperature was , and the City's highest record temperature was .\n\nDaegu is a manufacturing industry city. The major industries are textiles, metals and machinery. In the year 2010, Daegu had a regional GDP of $45,387 million with 7.2% real GDP growth rate. The GDP per capita though is well below Korea national average. Many companies such as Daegu Bank, Korea Delphi, Hwasung corp., and TaeguTec are situated in this city, and Samsung and Kolon were founded here. Numerous factories are located in the industrial complexes situated in the west and north sides of the city including the Seongseo Industrial Complex, West Daegu Industrial Complex and the Daegu Dyeing Industrial Complex.\n\nThe city is the economic and industrial core of the Daegu-Gyeongbuk region, one of the major industrial areas in Korea. It accounted for as much as 94 percent of Korea's trade surplus in 2006. The electronics industries in Gumi and the steel industries in Pohang provided great services to that surplus. World-leading manufacturing facilities for Anycall (Samsung Mobile) and POSCO's main factories are located near the city. Daegu and its neighbouring cities were designated for the Daegu-Gyeongbuk Free Economic Zone by the central government in 2008. It is specialized companies like Winitech software company in knowledge-based service and manufacturing industries.\n\nHistorically, Daegu has been the commercial center of the southern part of the Korean Peninsula with Seoul in the center and Pyongyang in the north (currently North Korea), because of its advantageous location. Some of the large, traditional markets like Seomun Market are still flourishing in the city.\n\nAdditionally, Daegu was considered the third major economic city in Korea, after Seoul and Busan. However, due to the decline of the textile industry, which is the heart of Daegu's economy, the overall economic growth of the city has also fallen.\n\nAlso, the city is the warmest region in South Korea due to the humid subtropical climate. This climate condition provides the region with high quality apples and oriental melons. The fruit industry is a crucial support for the local economy. Due to the stagnant economy, Daegu’s population began to decrease after 2003. Recently, the local government has begun focusing on working towards economic revival and concentrating on improving the city’s fashion industry.\n\nBeginning in the late 1990s, Daegu has been actively making efforts to promote its fashion industry based on its textile and clothing manufacturing industries under the 'Daegu: Fashion City'. The city opens many exhibitions related to the fashion and textile industries including the Daegu Fashion Fair and Preview in Daegu annually or semi-annually, and invites national institutes. A large new town specializing in the textile-fashion industries is currently under construction in Bongmu-dong, northeastern Daegu. The district, officially named Esiapolis, takes aim at the fashion hub of East Asia. Textile complexes, textile-fashion institutions, an international school, fashion malls as well as residential areas plan to be developed in the district.\n\nGenerally Daegu is known as a conservative city. As well as being the largest inland city in the country beside Seoul it has become one of the major metropolitan areas in the nation. Traditionally, Buddhism has been strong; today there are still many temples. Confucianism is also popular in Daegu, with a large academy based in the city. Neon cross-topped spires of Christian churches can also be seen in the city.\n\nThe most well-known sight of the city is the stone Buddha called Gatbawi on the top of Gwanbong, Palgongsan. It is famous for its stone gat (Korean traditional hat). People from all over the country visit the place, because they believe that the Buddha will grant one's single desire. Administratively, the site itself is located in the neighboring city, Gyeongsan, Gyeongbuk.\nOn the outskirts of the city, mountains keep many traditional temples such as Donghwasa, Pagyesa, and Buinsa. Donghwasa is a Buddhist temple that was built by Priest Geukdal-hwasang in 493, and many artifacts of the period are found around the temple. The International Tourist Zen Meditation Center is Korea's only Zen-themed center. Some lecture halls or memorial halls such as Dodong-seowon () and Nokdong-seowon () are also located in the suburbs.\n\nOld villages have been preserved, such as the Otgol village (\"Gyeongju Choi\" clan's original residence area) and the Inheung village (\"Nampyeong Mun\"'s). In the urban area, the Joseon Dynasty's administrative or educational buildings including Gyeongsang-gamyeong () and Daegu-hyanggyo () also remain. The main gateway of the city in that period called Yeongnam-jeilmun (, meaning the first gateway in Yeongnam), has been restored in Mangudang Park. Western style modern architecture like Gyesan Cathedral and the old building of Jeil Church are preserved across the urban area. Gyesan Cathedral is the third oldest gothic church building in Korea and the cathedral of the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Daegu which is one of three archdioceses in South Korea. Several buildings, in the present Keisung Academy and the KNU middle/high school, are famous too.\n\nYangnyeongsi () in Namseongno (often called Yakjeon-golmok) is the oldest market for Korean medicinal herbs in the country with a history of 350 years. Bongsan-dong which has some art galleries and studios is being developed as the artistic center of the city since the 1990s.\n\nNearby tourist attractions include Haeinsa—a Buddhist temple that houses the \"Tripitaka Koreana\" (a woodblock edition of the \"Tripitaka\" and one of the world's oldest extant complete collections of the Buddhist scriptures). Haeinsa is located in Gayasan National Park of Hapcheon, Gyeongnam. The historic city of Gyeongju, Gyeongbuk, the capital of the ancient kingdom of Silla is located east of Daegu.\n\nMt. Palgong, Mt. Biseul, and Mt. Ap are the representative mountains in Daegu. Apsan, just in the southern part of the city, is the closest mountain from the urban area among them. It has many trails, Buddhist temples, a Korean War museum, and a gondola ride to the peak. Additionally, Waryongsan, Hamjisan, and Yongjibong are located in the city. These serve as neighborhood parks to the citizens. Mt. Palgong has a cable car to the summit. There are also hiking trails in the direction of the Donghwasa Temple and Sutaegol Valley.\n\nIn the urban area, several small mountains and hills play the same role. Dalseong Park, which sits inside a 1,500-year-old earth fortress, is a historic place of the city. It contains the city's only zoo and some monuments as well as the wall. Duryu Park or Duryusan is a large forest in the middle of the urban area. It has Daegu Tower, Woobang Land, Kolon Bandstand, Duryu Stadium, and many sports facilities. Daegu Tower, also called Woobang Tower or Duryu Tower, is the tallest contemporary structure (202 m) and a symbol of the city. Its observatory commands good views of the surroundings. Woobang Land is the largest amusement park out of the capital area. Many small gardens lie in the heart of the city, such as the National Debt Repayment Movement Memorial Park (Gukchae Bosang Park) and 2·28 Park. The former park includes Dalgubeol-daejong (), which means the Dalgubeol grand bell. The bell is struck every week and year. There is also a botanical garden with a variety of plants and flowers.\n\nDongseongno () is the downtown of Daegu lying from the Daegu Station to \"Jung-ang pachulso\" (central police station) near the Banwoldang subway station in the center of the city Jung-gu. It has the Jung-angno subway station as the nearest station from its heart. Like its name meaning the street in the east fortress, the eastern part of Daegu-eupseong (, means the Daegu-Principality Fortress) was situated along this street. The fortress, however, had been demolished in the early 20th century. Although Daegu is the nation's third or fourth largest city, the Dongseongno area form the largest and the broadest downtown area in the whole country except the capital city, Seoul. In most cases, famous brands open their branch shop first here out of the Greater Seoul area.\n\nSub-downtowns in the city have its own commercial powers and colors. The area around the Seongseo Industrial Complex subway station in Dalseo-gu is a concentration of many amusement spots, and young people easily can be seen around Kyungpook National University in Buk-gu. \"Deuran-gil\" (means the street inside the field) in Suseong-gu is known for many restaurants.\n\nThe city has a number of department stores. Many of these belong to national or multinational chains, but the local Daegu Department Store also operates two branches, while another local chain, Donga Department Store operates four in the city proper. The six department stores among them gather at the downtown. The traditional markets such as Seomun Market and Chilseong Market sell all sorts of goods.\n\nMany traditional ceremonies and festivals in agrarian society disappeared in the process of modernization. A Confucian ritual ceremony called \"Seokjeondaeje\" is held at Daegu-hyanggyo every spring and autumn. The Yangnyeongsi herb medical festival and Otgol village festival are the contemporary festivals about traditional culture.\n\nLately in the city, enthusiasm about performing arts is growing and the local government is trying to meet its demand. Daegu International Opera Festival (DIOF) in October since 2003, Daegu International Musical Festival (DIMF), and Daegu International Bodypainting Festival (DIBF) are three of the most famous festivals on each field in Korea, although those have short histories.\n\nVarious festivals in various themes like the Colorful Daegu Festival, Dongseongno festival, Palgongsan maple festival, Biseulsan azalea festival, Korea in Motion Daegu, and so on, are held by the city, each ward, or the specific groups, all through the year.\n\nOn August 25 through August 31, 2008, Daegu hosted the first ever Asian Bodypainting Festival, a sister event of the World Bodypainting Festival in Seeboden, Austria.\n\nEach year the city is home to the Daegu International Jazz Festival: http://www.dijf.or.kr/\n\nEvery May the \"Colorful Daegu Festival\" offers performances and art programs including the Colorful Parade. In July, the Daegu Chimac Festival takes place at Duryu Park in Dalseo-gu, Daegu. The term \"chimac\" is a portmanteau of chicken and maekju (meaning \"beer\"). There were over 880,000 visitors in 2015, and one million visitors during the festival in 2016.\n\n\n\n\nOn March 27, 2007, the city was selected to host the 2011 World Championships in Athletics. Daegu competed with cities such as Moscow, Russia and Brisbane, Australia to earn the votes of the IAAF Council. The event was the fourth IAAF World Championships in Athletics to be held outside Europe, and the first games in mainland Asia. It was also the third worldwide sports event held in Korea after the 1988 Summer Olympics in Seoul and 2002 FIFA World Cup in Korea and Japan. Daegu also hosted three matches in the 2002 FIFA World Cup, and the 2003 Summer Universiade. The city hosts the Colorful Daegu Pre-Championships Meeting every year since 2005.\n\nDaegu Stadium is the second largest sports complex in South Korea with a seating capacity of 66,422. Daegu Civic Stadium hosted some football matches at the 1988 Summer Olympics.\n\nThere are three terrestrial TV broadcasting stations in the city: KBS Daegu Broadcast Station, Daegu MBC, and TBC. These are affiliated companies of central broadcasting stations in Seoul just like other local broadcasting companies in South Korea. TBC (Taegu Broadcasting Corporation) depends on SBS. They cover to Gyeongsangbuk-do out of the city. Each television broadcasting company has its own radio station as well.\n\nDaegu is largely a homogeneous community that includes few non-Koreans. However, a number of immigrants from South and Southeast Asia work in automotive-parts factories on the city's west side. In addition, there is a small group of English-speaking Westerners working in English schools and university programs. The American military bases are also home to several hundred Americans. Recently Chinese students have begun studying Korean at universities in Daegu, and there is an increasing number of graduate and post-graduate students from other Asian countries. As elsewhere in Korea, Korean food overwhelmingly dominates; Chinese, Japanese and Western food forms the bulk of non-Korean food but recently Indian and Russian foods have become available.\n\nDaegu hosts three American military bases, Camp Henry, Camp George which houses Daegu American School, and Camp Walker. Camp Walker houses Daegu High School for high school children, while Camp George hold the school for elementary and middle school (both of which are primarily for children of military personnel and US Military civilian employees). Camp George also houses most of the married [Enlisted] ranked soldiers. Camp Henry and Camp Walker serve as the primary place of work for all the military personnel. Camp Walker serves as the home to enlisted Sergeants Major and Officer ranked soldiers, Major and up. Although non-military families can enroll their children at the school, most either home-school their children or send them to a small Christian private school which teaches about 25 children near the central business district of Daegu.\n\nAccording to the census of 2015, of the people of Daegu 50.5% follow Buddhism and 17.9% follow Christianity (12% Protestantism and 5.8% Catholicism). 34.7% of the population is mostly not religious or follow other indigenous religions.\n\n, Daegu has 215 elementary schools, 123 middle schools including the Dong-Pyeong Middle School, and 91 high schools. There are two specialized public high schools which are Daegu Science High School and Taegu Foreign Language High School, and some other high schools such as Keisung Academy, Gyeongsin High School and Daeryun High School have good grades for university admission. Most of well-known high schools are located in Suseong-gu because its educational grade and zeal are high standard in the country.\n\nAlso, Daegu has 4 independent private high schools like Keisung Academy(also called Keisung High School), Gyeongsin High School, Gyeong-il Girl's High School, Daegun Catholic High School.\n\nDaegu and its satellite towns are one of the areas which have the largest private higher educational institutions in Korea. Many of their main campuses are located in the nearby Gyeongsan city which serves the Daegu region as a college town. Kyungpook National University (KNU) is one of the most highly ranked and well organized national universities in Korea. It holds first place in and around the city in almost all of the fields. Daegu has two of the most prestigious private universities outside Seoul, Yeungnam University（YU）and Keimyung University. There are some smaller private universities such as Catholic University of Daegu and Daegu University. Daegu National University of Education offers elementary education training.\n\nThe other universities and colleges include Daegu Arts University, Daegu Cyber University, Daegu Haany University, Daegu Health College, Daegu Mirae College, Daegu Polytechnic College, Daegu Technical College, Daegu University of Foreign Studies, Daeshin University, Keimyung University, Kyongbuk Science University, Kyongbuk University of Foreign Studies, Kyungil University, Taekyeung College, Yeungjin College, Yeungnam College of Science and Technology, and Youngnam Theological College and Seminary.\n\nSome large university hospitals make the city the medical hub of south-eastern Korea. The Kyungpook National University Hospital, founded as \"Daegu-dongin-uiwon\" in 1907 by the Japanese, is the well-known hospital in the city. The Dongsan Hospital (attached to Keimyung University), founded as \"Jejungwon\" in 1899, is one of the oldest western style medical clinics in Korea. The Yeungnam University Medical Center has the largest number of beds in the city. The yearly treatment amount of these tertiary hospitals is the second largest in South Korea after that of Seoul. The Daegu Catholic University Medical Center is also included in them.\n\nInternational schools in Daegu include:\n\nDaegu is the hub of the Korean inland railroad traffic. The main railroad of the country, Gyeongbu Line passes through the city. The largest railroad station in the city, Dongdaegu Station has the second largest passenger traffic in Korea after Seoul Station, and the largest train traffic. The station re-opened in 2004 after extensive renovations serving the KTX highspeed train, Saemaul and Mugunghwa trains. All kinds of trains except KTX depart from Daegu Station, an all-new building with cinemas, restaurants and a department store, located near the city centre. It has the tenth largest passenger traffic in Korea. Daegu Line branches off from Gacheon Station of Gyeongbu Line.\n\nThe city also has a metro system, consisting of two heavy rail lines. Line 1 crosses the city from northeast to southwest, while Line 2 crosses from west to east. Line 3 from northwest to southeast is an elevated monorail. All the lines are and will be operated by the Daegu Metropolitan Transit Corporation (DTRO). Another line will operate in a few years as a heavy rail system using the Gumi–Daegu–Gyeongsan section of Gyeongbu Line. Line 4 is a long-range plan and will be a circle line. Fare is 1200 won on distance and 1100 won with a prepaid card. There is a free interchange scheme between the metro and bus within an hour of first use for the prepaid card users.\n\nThere are two types of buses which are local and limited express. Limited express buses have more seats, but often passengers are required to stand. , Local bus fare costs around 1,400 won, Limited express bus fare would set you back around 1,800 won. Discounted fare is available with a prepaid card.\n\nBus route numbers are made up with 3 digits, each number indicates the area that bus serves. For example, number 407 bus runs from zone four, to zone zero, and then to zone seven. Other routes, usually circular, are named for the districts they serve and numbered 1 through 3.\n\nTraffic is sometimes heavy, however, the major thoroughfares handle fairly high volumes of traffic without too much trouble.\n\nDaegu is served by Daegu Airport (international/domestic) located in northeastern Daegu. International destinations include Japan, China, Southeast Asia, and Vladivostok.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nDaegu is twinned with the following locations:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4189273", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4189273", "title": "Digging for the Truth", "text": "Digging for the Truth\n\nDigging for the Truth is a History Channel television series. The first three seasons of the show focused on host Josh Bernstein, who journeyed on various explorations of historical icons and mysteries. Bernstein is the president and CEO of BOSS (Boulder Outdoor Survival School) and has a degree in anthropology and psychology from Cornell University. The show airs every Monday night at 9:00 EST on the History Channel. The series premiered in January 2005 and at the time was the highest-rated series currently running on The History Channel, which was surprising given the previous show \"Time Titans\" from the production crew never made it past the pilot. The third season premiered on January 22, 2007, with a two-hour special event on the quest for Atlantis.\n\nBernstein announced on February 20, 2007, that he would be leaving The History Channel and \"Digging for the Truth\", and would, as of April, join The Discovery Channel as an executive producer and host of a new prime-time series and specials. Hunter Ellis, host of \"Tactical to Practical\" and \"Man, Moment, Machine\" for The History Channel, then replaced Bernstein as host.\n\nEach episode typically deals with an event or subject in history that is not completely understood by modern historians. As such, many of the topics covered are controversial in some respect. Bernstein usually mentioned the various theories that exist on the subject, although the episode may not have explored all of them. He then traveled to various locations to ask questions of researchers, and he often he put himself into situations (e.g. working in a quarry, climbing a rock-face) that simulated the activities of people in the period he explored. Almost all of the researchers he talked to were professionals in the subject at hand, and many of the places he visited (e.g., the inside of a pyramid) are not open to the general public. At the end of each episode, he pulled together everything discussed in the episode to either formulate a hypothesis of what happened or to conclude that what happened remains a mystery.\n\nIn late 2006, Bernstein's book \"Digging for the Truth: One Man's Epic Adventure Exploring the World's Greatest Archaeological Mysteries\" was published. In the book, Bernstein writes a bit about his past and BOSS, but it is mostly a behind-the-scene look at various episodes.\n\n"}
{"id": "49281541", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49281541", "title": "ELSA Sarajevo Summer Law School", "text": "ELSA Sarajevo Summer Law School\n\nSarajevo Summer Law School is a project organized by the European Law Students' Association (ELSA) in Bosnia and Herzegovina.\nELSA summer law schools are organized like seven-day international schools on certain topics in science domains, guided by ideas which are helpful to youth in their academic, but in business upgrade too.\n\nIdea about the project of Sarajevo Summer Law School comes from Darko Dizdarević who was Vice President S&C of ELSA B&H at the moment of its foundation in 2013. The purpose is to expand the knowledge in the area of law through lectures of recognized experts and to gather students from different countries in Europe to exchange their opinions and to create effective network.\n\nBeside Darko, other founders of Sarajevo Summer Law School are: Nihad Odobašić, Mirza Hebib, Harun Išerić, Amina Mašović, Enida Šačirović, Ana-Maria Paponja, Nasir Muftić, Ajdina Batalović, Emina Agić, Muhamed Tulić.\nMain ideas which characterize this project are knowledge expansion of students about certain law theme which is a base of entire project, education and progressional upgrade of students who participate in project, linking, at the same time, students from all over Europe because of networking as the main goal. ELSA summer law schools are held in summer, and gather approximately 40-50 participants. Inspired by this, ELSA B&H decided to start this unique project, with aim to give unique opportunity to law students from B&H and the other starters across Europe who are going to participate in this project, then to increase academic standard in B&H which did not include an opportunity of additional education on this way, and to improve reputation, structure and organization of ELSA B&H.\n\nLectures in Sarajevo, Municipality of Old Town.jpg |thumb| Lectures in Sarajevo, Municipality of Old Town, 2013, academic program\nIn 2014, ELSA Bosnia and Herzegovina organized the first Summer Law School on the topic \"Media Law and International Standards on Information Access\". This school was the first law school of this type organized by students in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The idea for this project was created as a result of the need of a detailed and clear proposal solutions of unarranged domain access to information and abuse of media rights to the detriment of conscientious citizens.The school attracted around 40 students from 15 different countries, who had lectures for seven days (7–14 August) at the School of Economics and Business in Sarajevo. Recognized lecturers and experts such as: MSc Dunja Mijatović (The OSCE Representative on Freedom of the Media), MSc Amer Džihana (Internews BiH), MSc Kristina Ćendić (Internews BiH), Helena Mandić (Communications Regulatory Agency B&H), DSc Marco Bellezza (Associate at Portolano Cavallo Studio Legale), DSc Oreste Pollicino (Bocconi University) and Anja Gengo (University of Sarajevo) attended.\n\nThe announcement of the first Sarajevo Summer Law School and promotion of signing a memorandum of cooperation with institutions and non-governmental\norganizations were reported by many media in B&H of which is important to mention the state television ˝TV Sarajevo˝ and ˝Hayat TV˝ with contributions in television shows about school, radio station ˝Antena Sarajevo˝ with contribution in a radio show and ˝Dnevni Avaz˝ as a written media. During the lasting of the seven-day school, the following media were reporting : ˝Antena Sarajevo˝, ˝RSG Radio˝, ˝Klix.ba˝, ˝Fena TV˝, ˝TV Sarajevo˝, ˝Ekskluziva.ba˝, and many web portals of student organizations and civil society organizations. Official websites of all the project partners have set\npromotional information about the successful realization of the school.\n\nAfter success of the first school, ELSA Bosnia and Herzegovina organized second Summer Law School in July 2015 on the topic \" Media Law and Role of Media in Armed Conflicts \". The focus remains on the field of Media Law, since this domain was highlighted as a focus programme of the ELSA International.\n\nIn existence and development of free democratic society media has an important role. Its original role as a mere transmitter of information in modern society is outdated. The formation of public opinion is considerably dependent on both the monitoring of information and its presentation in public. Growing power of media is evident and it reveals series of sensitive questions about legislation, such as freedom of expression, the right to information, the right to privacy, the right to honor and reputation, intellectual property rights, etc. Media law as a contemporary branch of law consolidates a large number of areas of law with radio and television, printed media, Internet and on-line services, various forms of entertainment, advertisements and marketing, as the subject to regulation. The interest of authority in this branch of law is significant since the trust and support of public are based on transparency and openness of decision-making process, which is provided by media. The topic of media law is very important and sensitive topic which is one of the reasons of it being selected as the topic of second Sarajevo Summer Law School. The biggest advantage of virtual communication is reflected in the two-way interactive communication, thus enabling denial of incorrect information. Another inevitable media is social media, a product of web 2.0 , which accomplishes a complete democratization of data and information publishing. Nowadays, through social media people have the opportunity to globally affect messages, publish their attitudes, opinions and ideas. Information provided by these sites have had a significant role in the activism in recent years. The best example for that is Arab Spring in which these social media were used as the key tool for mobilization, training, forming the opinion and affecting the change. Despite the censorship of media and the fact that the national television was not reporting anything about what was happening, amateur footage of the first riots in Tunisia got on the Internet. Thereby, the whole world was informed about the course of these events, and citizens realized they can turn the power to their advantage. People of the Arab world understood that they are not alone, that there are others going through the same suffering and brutality.\n\nWith 45 participants not only from Europe, second Sarajevo Summer Law School has grown in one of the most recognized schools in ELSA network, since our law school is one of the 36 law schools under ELSA organisation. The School was honored with presence of highly experts in this field: DSc Vladimir Bratić (Hollins University, USA), MSc Stana Tadić (Humanitarian Law Centre Belgrade), Nedžad Smailagić (Poitiers University, France), MSc Amer Džihana (Internews BiH), MSc Kristina Ćendić (Internews BiH), Nihad Kreševljaković (Sarajevo War Theatre) and Asja Rokša – Zubčević (Communications Regulatory Agency BiH).\n\nAlso, the appearance, structure and organization of ELSA B&H are improved through this project, and there is expressed desire and need for the establishment of the Institute of Media Law and the study of Media Law in the frame of the regular curriculum at the Law Faculty in Sarajevo, and to the general public we enabled information about the protection of the rights of the injured through the media, which is extremely necessary for creating a democratic state.\n\nAfter very successful second Sarajevo Summer Law School, in the summer of 2016. tradition is continued and the third Sarajevo Summer Law School is going to be organized. This year's summer school topic will be completely different from the topics discussed from previous two years. \nThis year’s theme is \"Freedom of Religion in Europe\". Freedom of religion is considered by many people and nations to be a fundamental human right. In a country with a state religion, freedom of religion is generally considered to mean that the government permits religious practices of other sects besides the state religion, and does not persecute believers in other faiths.\n"}
{"id": "11129774", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11129774", "title": "Haleh Esfandiari", "text": "Haleh Esfandiari\n\nHaleh Esfandiari () (born March 3, 1940) is an Iranian-American academic and former Director of the Middle East Program at the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars in Washington, D.C. Her areas of expertise include Middle Eastern women's issues, contemporary Iranian intellectual currents and politics, and democratic developments in the Middle East. She was detained in solitary confinement at Evin Prison in Tehran, Iran for more than 110 days from May 8 to August 21, 2007.\n\nEsfandiari was born and grew up in Iran. She has lived in the United States since 1980, having left Iran with her husband and daughter because of the 1979 Iranian Revolution. She holds dual U.S.-Iranian citizenship.\n\nEsfandiari is married to Shaul Bakhash, a Jewish Iranian-American professor of history and Persian studies at George Mason University. She met Bakhash in the early 1960s, when both were reporters at the Iranian newspaper \"Kayhan\". They have a daughter and two granddaughters.\n\nBefore Esfandiari left Iran, she had a career as a journalist and taught at the College of Mass Communication in Tehran. She was also Deputy Secretary General of the Women's Organization of Iran and she was responsible for several museums and art and cultural centers. She earned her Ph.D. at the University of Vienna.\n\nIn the United States, Esfandiari taught courses on Persian language, contemporary Persian literature and the women's movement in Iran at Princeton University from 1980 to 1994. She was a fellow at the Wilson Center from 1995 to 1996. She has served as director of the Middle East Program at the Wilson Center since 1997. She was also involved with the Wilson Center's collaboration with the RAND Corporation's Initiative for Middle Eastern Youth.\n\nEsfandiari was a fellow at the National Endowment for Democracy in its first year of fellowship program in 1995. Esfandiari is a recipient of the MacArthur Foundation Grant. She is known to have been close to Faiza (Faezeh) Hashemi Rafsanjani, an Iranian politician and a daughter of Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani, a former President of Iran. Since 2011, Esfandiari has been a member of the board of the Peace Research Endowment.\n\nEsfandiari is the author of the book \"Reconstructed Lives: Women and Iran's Islamic Revolution\" (1997). In 2004, she co-wrote a paper for the Washington Institute for Near East Policy's Policy Watch Special Forum marking the twenty-fifth anniversary of the Islamic Revolution in Iran. In April 2005, she contributed a piece for \"Foreign Policy\", titled \"Iranian Woman Please Stand Up\".\n\nEsfandiari's book \"My Prison, My Home: One Woman's Story of Captivity in Iran\" was published in September 2009.\n\nOn December 30, 2006, Esfandiari was robbed at knifepoint by three men while on the way to the airport after visiting her ailing 93-year-old mother in Tehran, Iran, whom she had visited approximately twice per year over the past decade. During this incident, the men threatened to kill her; then they stole her baggage and both her U.S. and Iranian passports. Consequently, she was not permitted to leave the country. When she applied for new travel documents, she was instead barred from leaving Iran and interrogated over a period of six weeks by authorities from the Iranian Ministry of Intelligence. These interrogations, which totaled approximately fifty hours, focused primarily on her work at the Wilson Center. During this time, she was allowed to return home each day, but \"was pressured to make a false confession or to falsely implicate the Wilson Center in activities in which it had no part\". On January 18, 2007, an interrogator and three other men (one holding a video camera) broke into her mother's apartment and entered Esfandiari's bedroom while she was taking an afternoon nap; they then took her laptop computer and other items.\n\nIn early May, she was asked again to confess to having taken part in anti-government activities, which she refused to do. On May 7, 2007, she was told to report to the Ministry of Intelligence. Upon her arrival there the next morning, she was taken into custody and driven to Tehran's Evin Prison. She was one of four dual U.S.-Iranian citizen to be detained by the Iranian government under similar circumstances in 2007, the others being Radio Farda correspondent Parnaz Azima, Ali Shakeri of the Center for Citizen Peacebuilding at the University of California at Irvine, and Kian Tajbakhsh, an Iranian American consultant for the Open Society Institute. A former FBI agent, Robert Levinson, has been missing in Iran since he disappeared in March 2007.\n\nDuring her detention at Evin Prison, Esfandiari was allowed to make one- or two-minute telephone calls to her mother most evenings, but was not permitted to have contact with her other family members. On May 15, 2007, Iranian Judiciary spokesman Ali Reza Jamshidi confirmed that Esfandiari was being investigated for crimes against national security and that her case was being handled by the Intelligence Ministry. On May 21, 2007, Iran's state TV announced that the government of Iran had charged Esfandiari of seeking to topple that nation's ruling Islamic establishment. The Ministry of Intelligence said that Esfandiari had admitted during interrogation that her institute was funded by the Soros Foundation. On May 29, 2007, one day after a rare high-level meeting between Iranian and U.S. officials, Iran announced that its judiciary had brought charges of \"endangering national security through propaganda against the system and espionage for foreigners\" against Esfandiari.\n\nUntil the announcement of Esfandiari's detention, both Bakhash and the Wilson Center chose not to publicize her case, hoping that by keeping quiet, her travel documents would eventually be returned and she would be allowed to return to the U.S. In February 2007, the Center's president, the former U.S. Representative Lee H. Hamilton, sent letters to Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad and Iran's ambassador to the United Nations, Javad Zarif, in which he asked for assistance in obtaining Esfandiari's release. Ahmadinejad did not reply, but Zarif \"indicated that he wanted to be helpful\".\n\nFollowing reports of her detention on May 9, 2007, both Bakhash and the Wilson Center gave statements to the press regarding the situation. Iran did not immediately confirm that Esfandiari is being detained. The U.S. State Department called for her release. On May 11, 2007, U.S. presidential candidates Hillary Clinton and Barack Obama and three congresspeople, (Senators) Barbara Mikulski, Benjamin L. Cardin, and Rep. Chris Van Hollen called for Esfandiari's release. At that time two campaigns demanding the release of Esfandiari with petitions were initiated by the American Islamic Congress and the Scholars for Peace in the Middle East.\n\nOn May 15, 2007, U.S. Senators Gordon H. Smith and Hillary Clinton introduced a resolution (S. RES. 199) calling for Esfandiari's immediate and unconditional release. U.S. Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice also called for Esfandiari's immediate release. On May 17, 2007, Iranian human rights activist and Nobel laureate Shirin Ebadi, who has known Esfandiari for many years, called for Esfandiari's immediate release and announced that she would be acting as one of Esfandiari's attorneys, along with Abdolfattah Soltani. The prosecutor of the Islamic Revolutionary Court, however, prevented Esfandiari from access to counsel, refused to provide detailed information regarding the charges against her, and refused on two occasions to allow her mother to visit her in prison. Two days later, it was announced that the Middle East Studies Association of North America had written to Ahmadinejad expressing concern over Iran's detention of Esfandiari and other scholars. Massachusetts Institute of Technology professor Noam Chomsky issued a statement deploring Esfandiari's detention and calling it \"a gift\" to U.S. officials considering a future attack on Iran. Juan Cole, a professor at the University of Michigan and past president of the Middle East Studies Association of North America, stated that he would boycott a conference in Iran which he had planned on attending in summer 2007, and called on other scholars to do the same.\n\nOn May 22, 2007, U.S. Representatives Chris Van Hollen, Tom Lantos, Elijah E. Cummings, Wayne T. Gilchrest, and Gary Ackerman introduced a resolution, H. RES. 430, which called for the Esfandiari's release. On July 16, 2007, footage of Esfandiari appeared for the first time on a program entitled \"In the Name of Democracy\", aired on the Iranian state television channel IRIB. Esfandiari was shown wearing a scarf and speaking in Persian.\n\nIn approximately August 2007, Lee Hamilton sent an appeal on Esfandiari's behalf to Supreme Leader of Iran Ali Khamenei, mentioning her extensive efforts to explain Iran's history and culture. Hamilton received a rare, unsigned response from the ayatollah's office stating that he would deal with the issue and that \"necessary measures will be taken as soon as possible\".\n\nOn August 21, 2007, Esfandiari was released on a US$333,000 bail, after her mother handed over the deed to her Tehran apartment. Her passport was returned and she left Iran and flew to Austria on September 2. In subsequent interviews she has stated that she was treated well while in captivity.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18647244", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18647244", "title": "Hypaethral", "text": "Hypaethral\n\nIn classical architecture, Hypaethral describes an ancient temple with no roof. (From the Latin \"hypaethrus\", from Ancient Greek ὕπαιθρος \"hupaithros\" ὑπό hupo- \"under\" and αἰθήρ aither \"sky, air\".) It was described by the Roman architect Vitruvius in his treatise \"On Architecture\", written for the emperor Caesar Augustus probably about 15 BC.\n\nHypaethral is in contradistinction to cleithral, a term applied to a covered temple. The \"Hypaethros\" or \"hypaethral opening\" is the term Vitruvius (iii. 2) used for the opening in the middle of the roof of temples, an example being found in Athens in the temple of Jupiter Olympius, which is octastyle. There was no example in Rome.\n\nHowever, at the time Vitruvius wrote (c. 25 AD) the \"cella\" of this temple was unroofed, because the columns which had been provided to carry, at all events, part of the ceiling and roof had been taken away by Sulla in 80 BC. The decastyle temple of Apollo Didymaeus near Miletus was, according to Strabo (c. 50 BC), unroofed, on account of the vastness of its cella, in which precious groves of laurel bushes were planted.\nApart from these two examples, the references in various writers to an opening of some kind in the roofs of temples dedicated to particular deities, and the statement of Vitruvius, which was doubtless based on the writings of Greek authors, that in decastyle or large temples the centre was open to the sky and without a roof (\"medium autem sub diva est sine tecto\"), render the existence of the hypaethros probable in some cases; and therefore C. R. Cockerell's discovery in the temple at Aegina of two fragments of a coping-stone, in which there were sinkings on one side to receive the tiles and covering tiles, has been of great importance in the discussion of this subject. In the conjectural restoration of the \"opaion\" or opening in the roof shown in Cockerell's drawing, it has been made needlessly large, having an area of about one quarter of the superficial area of the cella between the columns, and since in the Pantheon at Rome the relative proportions of the central opening in the dome and the area of the rotunda are 1:22, and the light there is ample, in the clearer atmosphere of Greece it might have been less. The larger the opening, the more conspicuous would be the notch in the roof which is so greatly objected to; in this respect, Jacques Hittorf would seem to be nearer the truth when, in his conjectural restoration of Temple R at Selinus, he shows an \"opaion\" about half the relative size shown in Cockerell's of that at Aegina, the coping on the side elevation being much less noticeable.\nThe problem was apparently solved in another way at Bassae, where, in the excavations of the temple of Apollo by Cockerell and Baron Hailer von Hallerstein, three marble tiles were found with pierced openings in them about 18 inches by 10 in.; five of these pierced tiles on either side would have amply lighted the interior of the cella, and the amount of rain passing through (a serious element to be considered in a country where torrential rains occasionally fall) would not be very great or more than could be retained to dry up in the ceila sunk pavement. In favor of both these methods of lighting, the interior of the cella, the sarcophagus tomb at Cyrene, about long, carved in imitation of a temple, has been adduced, because, on the tor of the roof and in its centre, there is a raised coping, and a similar feature is found on a tomb found near Delos; an example from Crete now in the British Museum shows a pierced tile on each side of the roof, and a large number of pierced tiles have been found in Pompeii, some of them surrounded with a rim identical with that of the marble tiles at Bassae.\n\nOn the other hand, there are many authorities, among them Wilhelm Dörpfeld, who have adhered to their original opinion that it was only through the open doorway that light was ever admitted into the celia, and with the clear atmosphere of Greece and the reflections from the marble pavement, such lighting would be quite sufficient. There remains still another source of light to be considered, that passing through the Parian marble tiles of the roof; the superior translucency of Parian to any other marble may have suggested its employment for the roofs of temples, and if, in the framed ceilings carried over the celia, openings were left, some light from the Parian tile roof might have been obtained. It is possibly to this that Plutarch refers when describing the ceiling and roof of the temple of Demeter at Eleusis, where the columns in the interior of the temple carried a ceiling, probably constructed of timbers crossing one another at right angles, and one or more of the spaces was left open, which Xenocles surmounted by a roof formed of tiles.\nIn his 1849 \"Historical Inquiry into the True Principles of Beauty in Art: More Especially with Reference to Architecture\" \nJames Fergusson put forward a conjectural restoration in which he adopted a clerestory above the superimposed columns inside the cella; in order to provide the light for these windows, he indicated two trenches in the roof, one on each side, and pointed out that the great Hall of Columns at Karnak was lighted in this way with clerestory windows; but in the first place the light in the latter was obtained over the flat roofs covering lower portions of the hail, and in the second place, as it rarely rains in Egyptian Thebes, there could be no difficulty about the drainage, while in Greece, with the torrential rains and snow, these trenches would be deluged with water, and with all the appliances of the present day it would be impossible to keep these clerestory windows watertight. There is, however, still another objection to Fergusson's theory: the water collecting in these trenches on the roof would have to be discharged, for which Fergusson's suggestions are quite inadequate, and the gargoyles shown in the celia wall would make the peristyle insupportable just at the time when it was required for shelter.\n\nNo drainage otherwise of any kind has ever been found in any Greek temple, which is fatal to Fergusson's view. Nor is it in accordance with the definition open to the sky. English cathedrals and churches are all lighted by clemstory windows, but no one has described them as open to the sky, and although Vitruvius's statements are sometimes confusing, his description is far too clear to leave any misunderstanding as to the lighting of temples (where it was necessary on account of great length) through an opening in the roof.\n\nThere is one other theory which has been put forward, but which can only apply to non-peristylar temples, that light and air were admitted through the metopes, the apertures between the beams crossing the cella, and it has been assumed that because Orestes was advised in one of the Greek plays to climb up and look through the metopes of the temple, these were left open; but if Orestes could look in, so could the birds, and the statue of the god would be defiled. The metopes were probably filled in with shutters of some kind, which Orestes knew how to open.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3506963", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3506963", "title": "In the Heart of the Sea", "text": "In the Heart of the Sea\n\nIn the Heart of the Sea: The Tragedy of the Whaleship Essex is a book by American writer Nathaniel Philbrick about the loss of the whaler \"Essex\" in the Pacific Ocean in 1820. The book was published by Viking Press on May 8, 2000, and won the 2000 National Book Award for Nonfiction. It was adapted into a film of the same name, which came out in late 2015.\n\nThe \"Essex\", an American whaleship from Nantucket, Massachusetts, sank after a sperm whale attacked it in the Pacific Ocean in November 1820. Having lost their ship, the crew of the \"Essex\" attempted to sail to South America in whaleboats. After suffering from starvation and dehydration, most of the crew died before the survivors were rescued in February 1821.\n\nIn retelling the story of the crew's ordeal, Philbrick utilizes an account written by Thomas Nickerson, who was a teenage cabin boy on board the \"Essex\" and wrote about the experience in his old age; his account was lost until 1960 but was not authenticated until 1980 before being published, abridged, in 1984. The book also utilizes the better known account of Owen Chase, the ship's first mate, which was published soon after the ordeal.\n\n\"In the Heart of the Sea\" won the 2000 U.S. National Book Award for Nonfiction.\n\nThe story was adapted into a feature film by director Ron Howard, starring Chris Hemsworth, Ben Whishaw, and Cillian Murphy. Advertising for the film points out that the historical story inspired the Moby Dick mythology.\n\nThe film was scheduled for release in the US on December 11, 2015, but was released in major markets like Brazil, Russia, India and 37 other countries, as well as parts of the US, on December 3, 2015 to avoid competition from \"\".\n\n"}
{"id": "23600037", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23600037", "title": "Indiana Theory Review", "text": "Indiana Theory Review\n\nThe Indiana Theory Review () is a peer-reviewed academic journal specializing in music theory and analysis. It began publication in 1977, under the auspices of graduate students in music theory at Indiana University's Jacobs School of Music, making it the second of the graduate-student produced theory journals to debut in the United States (after \"In Theory Only\").\n"}
{"id": "46345824", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46345824", "title": "Indigenous feminism", "text": "Indigenous feminism\n\nIndigenous feminism is an intersectional theory and practice of feminism that focuses on decolonization and indigenous sovereignty. The focus is upon empowering indigenous women in the context of indigenous cultural values and priorities, rather than mainstream, white, patriarchal ones. In this cultural perspective, it can be compared to womanism in the African-American communities.\n\nIndigenous feminism developed out of a need to prioritize the issues indigenous women face due to racialisation, ethnicity, and cultural differences, in addition to sex and gender, such as the Missing and murdered Indigenous women crisis, forced sterilisation, and higher rates of assault and sexual violence, specifically as targets of white men. In particular, the ongoing attempted genocide of indigenous women is of utmost priority in indigenous feminism, while in mainstream feminism this femicide is rarely prioritized, unless it is non-indigenous women being murdered. Indigenous feminism has grown from postcolonial feminism as it acknowledges the devastating consequences of colonization on Indigenous peoples and the lands they inhabit, and the importance of decolonization in dismantling oppressive systems that were introduced as a result of colonization. The central role of the ancestral landbase, and current land rights and environmental struggles, connects Indigenous feminism to some aspects of ecofeminism. Differentiating indigenous feminism from mainstream white feminism and its related forms of feminism (including liberal feminism and Orientalist feminism) is important because \"indigenous women will have different concrete experiences that shape our relation to core themes\" than those of non-indigenous women.\n\nIndigenous feminism is also known by other, geographically specific, names such as: Native American feminism in the United States and Canada, Aboriginal or Indigenous Australian feminism in Australia. Despite the use of the more globally-applicable word \"indigenous\", the majority of text that refers to \"Indigenous feminism\" tends to focus on North American indigenous populations (Native American, First Nations, Inuit and Métis).\n\nBefore colonization, many Indigenous communities experienced a type of equality between the sexes that was not practiced by European colonizers. Some Indigenous communities historically placed a great deal of value on women and their roles within society. In many Indigenous cultures, such as within Indigenous Australian communities, women enjoyed far more respect, power, and autonomy than their European settler counterparts did. In many, not all, Indigenous communities, it is due to the effects of colonization and Christianity that has brought about the change in the standing and treatment of women within our society. In many Indigenous societies, women played a crucial role in community life and they often, although not always, were afforded \"religious, political, and economic power – not more than men but at least equal to men.\" Indigenous feminism attributes modern-day gendering of indigenous issues to colonization through naming, claiming, and exploiting native people.\n\nThrough colonization, Indigenous people became subject to a racist patriarchal system that significantly shifted the social, economic, and cultural practices of pre-contact Indigenous societies. The economic, political, and spiritual power granted to women in Indigenous communities was threatening to the arriving Europeans who used \"Xenophobia and a deep fear of Native spiritual practices\" to justify genocide as a means of domination. Kim Anderson writes in her book \"A Recognition of Being: Reconstructing Native Womanhood\" that \"the Europeans who first arrived in Canada were shocked by the position of Aboriginal women in their respective societies. It was not long before they realized that, in order to dominate the land and the people that were occupying it, they needed to disempower the women. Indigenous systems that allocated power to women were incompatible with the kind of colonial power dynamics that would be necessary to maintain colonial power.\" Additionally, \"while women's traditional roles in Indigenous communities vary widely, colonization has reordered gender relations to subordinate women, regardless of their pre-contact status.\" Colonization worked to restructure Indigenous social systems to fit within the white settler ideal.\n\nThe struggles faced by Indigenous people today are due to the actions taken by settlers to assert dominance through colonization. White settlers often brought a new type of economic system from their European nation that included the idea of private property, ownership, and gendered labor, which was forced onto Indigenous communities. In \"A Recognition of Being: Reconstructing Native Womanhood,\" Anderson notes, \"the split between public and private labour and the introduction of the capitalist economies disrupted the traditional economic authorities of Native women.\" Poverty is a problem for many Indigenous people, and can be traced back to the artificially enforced economic ideals of the colonizer onto Indigenous groups. In order to strip women of political power, colonizers forced regulatory systems onto Indigenous people, the Indian Act of Canada is one example of this. The political and spiritual power of women are often connected, as the spiritual or theoretical role for women can inform a real political role. As a result, \"heteropatriarchal religious traditions have excluded women and two-spirited peoples from leadership roles.\" The combination of loss of power from the economic, political, and spiritual leadership places Indigenous people at a heightened risk of violence. The overall argument about the effects of colonialism \"isn't just that we are being colonized, but [also] that we are assuming that nation-state form of governance is the best way to govern the world.\"\n\nThe development of Indigenous feminism came out of a counterinsurgency against the attempt to apply western feminism equally and effectively to all women regardless of their experiences. Such attempts are seen as fruitless because it homogenized the very diverse experiences of women and Indigenous people. Building off of the theory of intersectionality from Kimberle Crenshaw, Indigenous feminist theory seeks to reverse the ways that White feminism \"conflates or ignores intragroup differences.\"\n\nThe roots of Indigenous feminism are in those of the mainstream feminist movement; however, Indigenous feminism also seeks to incorporate specifically Indigenous perspectives into both of these feminist frameworks. Indigenous feminism diverges from postcolonial feminism, as some have argued that postcolonial theory in general has largely ignored the histories of colonialism as it exists for Indigenous populations. Some other Indigenous scholars (such as Robert Warrior, Elizabeth Cook-Lynn, Craig S. Womack) have expressed concern over the limits of postcolonial theory and its application to Indigenous studies. There is often distrust of Western theoretical paradigms which can marginalize Indigenous perspectives. In \"Who Stole Native American Studies?\" Elizabeth Cook-Lynn discusses the significant debate about what constitutes \"post\"-colonial, and who gets the privilege of naming when a society becomes post-colonial. As a result, many have moved to Indigenous feminism as a way to redress these issues with postcolonial feminism.\n\nCheryl Suzack and Shari M. Huhndorf argue in \"Indigenous Women and Feminism: Politics, Activism and Culture\" that: \"Although Indigenous feminism is a nascent field of scholarly inquiry, it has arisen from histories of women's activism and culture that have aimed to combat gender discrimination, secure social justice for Indigenous women, and counter their social erasure and marginalization – endeavors that fall arguably under the rubric of feminism, despite Indigenous women's fraught relationship with the term and with mainstream feminist movements.\" It is important to note that the urgent issues to address Indigenous feminism cross the boundary between what is considered feminist and what is considered indigenous.\n\nMuch of Indigenous feminism has taken shape around issues that resulted from colonial practices. Indigenous feminism is a direct result of, and a direct answer to the colonization and continued oppression of Indigenous peoples around the world. The need to question cultural practices from within allows Indigenous women to actively shape their own communities and helps encourage self-determination and cultural ownership. Differentiating Indigenous feminism from white feminism illuminates the ways that white feminism does not fully account for Indigenous experiences.\n\nSimilarly, Indigenous feminism is set apart from other Indigenous rights movements, such as Indigenous liberation theory, because those theories have \"not been attentive to the gendered ways in which colonial oppression and racism function for men and women, or to the inherent and adopted sexisms that some communities manifest.\" There are some within Indigenous communities who choose not to identify as feminist and therefore distance themselves from the mainstream feminism. There are many reasons for this choice, however, Kim Anderson argues that ifWestern feminism is unpalatable because it is about rights rather than responsibilities, then we should all take responsibility seriously and ask if we are being responsible to \"all\" members of our societies. If we are to reject equality in favour of difference, then we need to make sure those differences are embedded in systems that empower all members. If we see feminism as being too invested in Western liberalism and individual autonomy, then we need to ensure that our collectivist approaches serve everyone in the collective. And if we want to embrace essential elements of womanhood that have been problematic for Western feminists ... then we have to ensure that these concepts don't get stuck in literal or patriarchal interpretations.\n\nMany scholars and activists identify Indigenous feminism as relating to radical feminism since it often advocates for an upheaval of all systems of power that organize the subjugation of Indigenous women based on both male supremacy and racial difference. Indigenous Feminism encourages participation in decolonization needed from both men and women. Myrna Cunningham (Miskita) has stated that: \"The struggle of Indigenous Peoples is not a threat to our struggles as Indigenous women. On the contrary, we see these struggles as reciprocal.\" Decolonization is seen as the ultimate tool to combat subordination of Indigenous people.\n\nThere has been significant resistance to adopting a westernized, mainstream feminist approach to Indigenous rights and self-determination. The most significant criticism of mainstream feminism has been its marginalization of minorities and lack of racial diversity. White feminists \"are extraordinarily reluctant to see themselves in the situation of being oppressors, as they feel that this will be at the expense of concentrating upon being oppressed.\" The priority of white women's needs before those of Indigenous women have a historical root, and therefore make Indigenous feminists weary of homogenizing the rights of \"women\". It is noted by Aileen Moreton-Robinson that “All Indigenous women share the common experience of living in a society that deprecates us”, with an Indigenous woman’s standpoint being shaped by their inalienable connection to their land, a legacy of dispossession, racism, and sexism, continuing their activism within matriarchal contexts, as well as negotiating sexual politics across and within cultures. White middle-class feminist women’s privilege is tied to colonisation and the dispossession of Indigenous people. For Indigenous women, all white feminists benefit from colonisation; they are overwhelmingly represented and disproportionately predominant, have key roles, and constitute the normal standard of womanhood within Australia. Typically, when white feminists have ‘advocated’ or ‘included’ Indigenous women in their activism, it has been in a tokenistic sense; advocating primarily for their own benefit, and not for the collective benefit of all women, inclusive of the needs of Indigenous Australian women. It has been evident in many Indigenous feminist movements that “Aboriginal (and other forms of Indigenous feminism) feminism is a theoretical engagement with history and politics, as well as a practical engagement with contemporary social, economic, cultural and political issues”. While Indigenous women may acknowledge that there is overlap in the goals of Indigenous feminists and mainstream feminists, many, like Celeste Liddle (Arrernte) \"strongly believe that as Aboriginal women, whilst our fights are related to ongoing feminist struggles within other racially marginalised groups, they are not the same.\" An argument made by Minnie Grey in her essay, \"From the Tundra to the Boardroom to Everywhere in Between\", about feminism is how it often fails to look beyond female oppression at other issues, such as class, education, and the effects of oppression has on men. \"We, as Inuit women, have been striving for such things as equal pay for equal work, equal share of roles for the good of the family, equal rights to participate in the decision-making processes of our governments, equal rights for the hiring of women at all levels of commerce and science, equal rights in education, and most importantly, equal rights to raise our children in safe, healthy, and positive conditions. This means, among other things, above the poverty line. I look at these aspirations not as women's liberation, but as people's liberation. In fact, we need and love our men, and similarly, we need to liberate them from the concepts that bind them to unbreakable traditional roles that, in turn, keep the status quo intact in many regions of the world.\"One such example of the need to incorporate uniquely Indigenous perspectives is in the second wave's struggle for wage parity with their male counterparts. Celeste Liddle argues that \"for example, whilst equal pay is important for all of us, for many years Aboriginal people were historically not paid for their labour at all.\" Therefore, the second wave's fight for wage equality (among other issues), was perceived to push the rights of Indigenous women to the periphery.\n\nAnother such example is in the length of time taken to achieve certain rights. For example, while white women deemed to be citizens of Canada were granted the right to vote in 1918, other women were not allowed the right to vote until much later. Aboriginal women in Canada were not allowed to vote until the 1960s, at which time the second wave of feminism had moved away from such issues. \n\nRauna Kuokkanen (Sami) has argued for a specifically Indigenous paradigm, as opposed to a feminist one because while \"some feminist theories and practices also aim at social and political changes in a society...their approaches often exclude notions of collectivity as well as land rights which are central elements for Indigenous peoples.\"\n\nThe criticism against mainstream feminism is synthesized by Cunningham who argues:\n\n\"They see that the dominant feminist paradigm is based on an unacknowledged model of centre and periphery. In this model, Indigenous, African-descendent, and poor women occupy the periphery and must accept the ideas and conceptualization of feminism as defined by those at the centre. In other words, we Indigenous women are expected to accept the dominant picture of what constitutes women's oppression and women's liberation. The trouble is, this picture is only a partial match with our own experiences. Elements of our experience that do not match this picture are denied or marginalized. This dominant model tries to homogenize the women's movement, claiming that all women have the same demands and the same access to the enjoyment of their rights. This flawed assumption denies the diverse cultural, linguistic and social needs and visions of distinct groups of women.\"Indigenous Feminist scholars have resisted the co-optation and exploitation of their scholarship as another result of colonialism. As a collective, various Indigenous feminist scholars have called for \"the profound need for transparency and responsibility in light of the traumatic histories of colonization, slavery, and genocide that shape the present\" in order to ensure Indigenous feminism is informed by decolonization.\n\nSurvival has been a significant issue for all Indigenous peoples, and many have suggested that feminist discourse should take second place to the goal of survival (of people, culture, language, etc...). Survival isn’t just the survival of Indigenous people in the sense of life and death, but also the survival of culture, language, religion and histories. White feminist priorities most often have more to do with the discretion of privileged women, than the survival of one's culture and people.\n\nA criticism of Indigenous feminism among some western academics and pop culture writers is that Indigenous populations \"choose to distance themselves from feminism\". But this critique itself relies on a definition of feminism (or \"white feminism\") as \"colonial discourses relevant to western women only\". Feminism as a whole is often generalized as a white American phenomenon, with multiple scholars and feminists arguing that white feminism insufficiently addresses the concerns of women of more diverse backgrounds. Indigenous Australian feminist Aileen Moreton-Robinson argues that all Indigenous women experience living in a society that casts them aside, which needs to be challenged through the practice of Indigenous feminism. While all feminism is meant to identify interconnected forms of oppression that affect \"all\" women, historically, racism along with non-Native ignorance of Native women's continued existence and particular struggles (such as the Missing and Murdered Indigenous Women crisis) has continued to alienate Indigenous women who don't see mainstream feminism as welcoming them or addressing their most crucial concerns.\n\nA majority of the texts that are labeled as \"Indigenous feminism\" refer solely to the Indigenous populations of Native Americans in the United States and, to a lesser extent, to the First Nations peoples of Canada. This is also the case when feminists themselves are referred to, such as Leanne Betasamosake Simpson and Leslie Marmon Silko. \n\nThere are several forms of feminism that address indigenous populations and may follow similar theories, themes, and/or scholarships of Indigenous feminism, but do not directly identify as \"Indigenous feminism\". These forms of feminism can include Intersectional feminism, Transnational feminism, Postcolonial feminism, Native Hawaiian feminism, Feminism in India, and Asian feminism. These forms of feminism are often separated from one another, in both scholarship and activism, due to the slight differences in beliefs and focuses. Some have called for more unity among these groups, theories and approaches.\n\nResistance and activism against dominant colonial powers, as well as white feminism, can come in a number of forms, including but not limited to: legal or political protest, healing practices, storytelling, or art activism. Idle No More represents an Indigenous feminist activist group that works to \"shift the contemporary discourses of rights, sovereignty, and nationhood by arguing that it is Indigenous women who ought to hold the political power of Indigenous nations, or at the very least have an equal seat at the debate table.\" Their major themes of activism include sovereignty, the resurgence of nationhood, environmental protection, and resistance of violence against Indigenous women. This work is being done through making changes to The Indian Act of Canada, a piece of legislation that restricts Indigenous sovereignty, as well as advocating for environmental protection. Their activism asks people, regardless of Indigenous descent or not, to honor Indigenous sovereignty and to protect the environment. Another Canadian organization that focuses and promotes Indigenous feminist ideals is the Native Women’s Association of Canada (NWAC). They work to empower women by developing and changing legislation which affects Indigenous people. On October 4, they encourage the community to participate in vigils entitled \"Sisters In Spirit Vigils\" where they honor the lives of Missing and Murdered Indigenous Women and Girls (MMIWG). These vigils have resulted in the Government of Canada launching a National Inquiry into Missing and Murdered Indigenous Women and Girls in September 2016. This inquiry examines and reports on the violence against Indigenous women and girls in Canada by looking at the patterns, underlying factors and ultimately, the systemic cause of the violence. In the United States, the National Resource Center to Enhance Safety of Native Women and their Children (NIWRC) was created \"to enhance the capacity of American Indian and Alaska Native (Native) tribes, Native Hawaiians, and Tribal and Native Hawaiian organizations to respond to domestic violence.\" This organization also shares in Indigenous feminist themes by their dedication sovereignty and the safety of Indigenous women and children.\n\nWorking to change the name of \"Christopher Columbus Day\" to \"Indigenous People's Day\" is an example of changing the narrative of Indigeneity in the United States. Advocates for this change believe that Columbus has been subject to \"adoration\", despite many negative aspects to him, including \"his arrogance, his poor administration of his colonial ventures and his blinkered conscience, which was untroubled by the enslavement of Native Peoples, even when doing so went against the wishes of his royal backers.\" This day joins other days of celebration of Indigenous populations, including Native American Heritage Month in the United States, Dia del Respeto a la Diversidad Cultural (Day of Respect for Cultural Diversity) in Argentina, Dia de la Hispanidad (Hispanicity Day) in Spain, Dia de la Resistencia Indigena (Day of Indigenous Resistance) in Venezuela, and International Day of the World's Indigenous Peoples.\n\nBecause of the intergenerational trauma that is passed down from each generation to the next due to the violent colonization, healing is an important aspect of resistance. Healing practices include doing work that reverts to the pre-colonized cultural traditional Indigenous work such as weaving, sewing, music, or even active participation in Indigenous community. Along with this, reclaiming sovereignty through storytelling and writing are also forms of Indigenous activism. Writing is a particularly useful tool in healing and activism. It serves as both, \"means of surviving oppression and a way to engage in the healing process.\" The book \"This Bridge Called My Back, Writings by Radical Women of Color\" makes this idea a reality, by publishing the honest and creative narratives about Native and Indigenous feminism, and contextualizing these pieces as academia. Chrystos, an Indigenous feminist writer and poet practices writing as resistance in \"Not Vanishing\" in which Chrystos theorizes about her experiences as an Indigenous woman in white feminist spaces.\n\nThroughout Australian history, a lot of activism has occurred, both advocating for Indigenous rights as a whole, as well as for the rights of Indigenous women. However, much of the activism that is brought about by Indigenous feminists is advocating for far more than female liberation; they are continuously advocating for the liberation of Indigenous Australian’s as a whole, the bettering of health care, changes to structural racism in the media and judicial system, as well as improvements to the education system with a more inclusive, bilingual teaching system in the hope to revive Indigenous languages within schools and communities. Feminist movements within the Indigenous community are seemingly never strictly about the bettering of treatment for women, but for the improved quality of life for all Indigenous Australians. As well as the continued fight for ultimate liberation, Indigenous communities, primarily women, are seeking to reempower themselves as individuals, and then as a community, through the reempowerment movement. This movement first seeks to acknowledge colonization as a form of disempowerment, to then rebuild and revive Indigenous women’s spiritual and cultural practices accompanied by healing. It is acknowledged and believed that a key element of healing the soul of wounds caused by colonization is for women to tell their stories; stories that have otherwise been erased, distorted or altered to suit the needs of the colonizer. Presently, there are continued debates and protests occurring nationally to change the date or name of ‘Australia Day’, which presently falls on the 26th of January. In Indigenous culture, the 26th of January marks ‘Invasion Day’ – the day in which the British flag was raised on Australian soil. There are calls to change the date entirely, due to the traumatising nature of the day for Indigenous Australians, as well as recommendations to change the name to ‘Survival Day’, to acknowledge the mistreatment and displacement of Indigenous communities. In line with these calls, Melbourne’s Yarra Council have ceased holding citizenship ceremonies on the 26th of January. \n\nGlobally, Indigenous feminists have suggested reevaluating identity politics to work towards justice in a more comprehensive way. In addressing the United Nations, Winona LaDuke has explained how Indigenous feminism might work, \"if we are to seek and struggle for common ground of all women, it is essential to struggle on this issue. It is not that the women of the dominant society in so-called first world countries should have equal pay and equal status, if that pay and status continues to be based on a consumption model which is not only unsustainable, but causes constant violation of the human rights of women and nations elsewhere in the world.\" Indigenous feminist activism includes a broad scope of actions, but center Indigenous women's experiences.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55928706", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55928706", "title": "Istishab", "text": "Istishab\n\nIstishab ( ) is an Islamic term used in the jurisprudence to denote the principle of the presumption of continuity. It is derived from an Arabic word \"suhbah\" meaning accompany. It is one of the fundamental principles of the legal deduction that presumes the continuation of a fact. It is based on probability and can be applied in the absence of other proofs.\n\nIstishab, an initiative of ash-Shafii, is the rationalistic principle of extracting a legal solution according to which changes are not considered to occur until clear signs of these changes are apparent. It serves as the basis for many legal rulings such as the presumption of innocence—the person is regarded as innocent unless proven guilty. Malik ibn Anas and ash-Shafii regarded it to be a proof until it is contradicted. Several classical jurists differed over this principle with some Hanafi jurists refusing to regard it as an evidence. It is now widely employed by the contemporaries scholars with the exception of Hanbali scholars.\n\nIbn al-Qayyim defined it as\n\nAl-Qarafi expressed it as the validity of the former state in the following words. \n\nIstishab is divided into several types. The majority of the scholars agree upon three types.\n\nIt is the absence of any Shariah norms on an adult Muslim, until their legitimacy is established. An example is the absence of the mandatory sixth prayer for a Muslim, the resumption of the person's innocence in a crime, etc. Islamic theologians are unanimous regarding the validity of this type.\n\nThe overwhelming majority of jurists believe that the basis in useful everyday things is permissiveness and in harmful things is prohibition. For example, a certain type of food is allowed until a Sharia argument is established, proving its prohibition.\n\nIf there are Sharia texts with respect to any norm, backed up by the Istishab, then statements about the abolition of this rule will not be accepted until they are backed up by evidence. An example is the continued ownership of property rights. The application to terminate property will not be accepted until evidence is submitted supporting these statements. Another example is the validity of the ablution, which will not invalidated on the mere basis of doubt.\n"}
{"id": "48677815", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48677815", "title": "Jessie Rosser", "text": "Jessie Rosser\n\nJessie Rosser \"(born 1921;died 2013)\" was a Missionary of the Canadian Baptist Ministries who served in India for over 40 years and was Principal of the Eva Rose York Bible Training and Technical School for Women in Tuni, Andhra Pradesh.\n\nJessie worked as a school teacher at St. Thomas, Ontario for some time and then studied social sciences at the McMaster University from where she graduated in 1947 with a B.A. and decided to serve the cause of people in difficult circumstances overseas. She came to India in 1947 and served as a Missionary in Kakinada, Vuyyuru, and Tuni.\n\nIn 1987, the Canadian Baptist Ministries recognised the services of Jessie Rosser as a missionary to India by then General Secretary of the Canadian Baptist Ministries, Robert C. Berry who presented Jessie with a pin acknowledging her 40-year service.\n\nWhen Jessie Rosser came to India during 1947/1948, the members of the Centre Street Baptist Church in St. Thomas, Ontario formed a Jessie Rosser Mission Circle in honour of her. In 2009, the circle members comprising 10 ladies visited India to see the places where Jessie Rosser served, especially the Eva Rose York Bible Training and Technical School for Women in Tuni.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5510704", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5510704", "title": "La Quemada", "text": "La Quemada\n\nLa Quemada is an archeological site, also known (according to different versions) as Chicomóztoc. It is located in the Villanueva Municipality, in the state of Zacatecas, about 56 km south of the city of Zacatecas on Fed 54 Zacatecas–Guadalajara, in Mexico.\n\nGiven the distance between La Quemada and the centre of Mesoamerica, this archeological zone has been subject of different interpretations on the part of historians and archeologists, who have attempted to associate it with different cultures.\n\nIt is supposed that this place could be the legendary Chicomostoc, a Caxcan site, a Teotihuacán fortress, a Purépecha centre, a fort against Chichimeca intruders, a Toltec trading post, or simply consequence of independent development and a city of all the native groups established north of the Río Grande de Santiago.\n\nIn 1615, Fray Juan de Torquemada identified La Quemada as one of the places visited by the Aztecs during their migration from the north to the Mexico central plateau, and where older people and children were left behind. Francisco Javier Clavijero, in 1780, associated this site with Chicomoztoc, where the Aztecs remained for nine years during their voyage to Anahuac. \nThis speculation originated the belief La Quemada is the mythical place called \"The Seven Caves\". Archeological investigations since the 1980s determined that La Quemada developed between 300 and 1200 AD (Classical and early Postclassical periods) and that it was contemporaneous of the Chalchihuites culture, characterized from the first century of our era, by intense mining activity. La Quemada, Las Ventanas El Ixtepete, major settlements in the \"Altos de Jalisco\", and northern Guanajuato, formed a trade network linked to Teotihuacán (350-700 AD), that extended from northern Zacatecas to the Valley of Mexico.\nIt is possible that links established by Teotihuacán were with local rulers of ceremonial centers, of the mentioned network, or through alliances with regional intermediaries, or by small Teotihuacán merchants groups, living in these centers, that ensured the various products flow, such as minerals, salt, shells, quills, obsidian, and peyote, among others.\nBetween 700 and 1100 AD, La Quemada did not participate as a network member, but as the dominant trade location at the regional level, it began to compete with other neighbouring sites. It was during this time that the site acquired a defensive character, evidence of which is the construction, on the north flank of the site, of a wall approximately four metres high by four metres wide, as well as the elimination of two stairways in the complex with the intention of restricting internal circulation.\n\nFrom the evidence of fire in several parts of the site, a violent decline of the settlement is inferred. It is this apparent destruction by fire which gives the site its name of \"la (ciudad) quemada\", \"the burnt city\".\n\nLa Quemada is made up of numerous different size masonry platforms built onto the hill, these were foundations for structures built over them. On the south and southeastern sides is a high concentration of ceremonial constructions, some of which are complexes made up of sunken patio platforms and altar-pyramid, a typical Mesoamerican architectonic attribute.\n\nOn the west side is a series of platforms or terraces, apparently more residential structures than ceremonial. All architectonic elements of La Quemada were constructed with rhyolite (volcanic effusive rock of the granite family) slabs, extracted from the hill located northeast of the Votive Pyramid.\n\nTo build the structures and join the slabs a clay and vegetal fiber mortar was used, as it degrades and erodes in time, it caused wall deterioration. Over the masonry walls several clay stucco layers were applied, currently only a few samples of original finishing remain.\n\nStudies made to date, provide basis to determine that the monumental complex was constructed at different times. It is known that the structures built were constructed over previous constructions, which were covered by later constructive stages.\n\nIf the total elements of this site are considered, from the extensive roads and the numerous smaller sites linked to La Quemada, this is a singular archaeological site in the context of mesoamerican sites.\n\nThe archaeological zone is divided into three complexes: the \"Ciudadela\" with a wall that surrounds the north side of the site (800m long, 4m wide and 4m high); the Palace located in the central part of the hill and the Temple located in the south end.\n\nColumns Hall. This 41 by 32 metre enclosure, probably reached a height of more than five metres before the fire that caused its destruction. In their interior eleven columns supported the roof. Until now its specific function is not known. Although works made in the 1950s indicate a ceremonial use possibly related to human sacrifice.\n\nMain Avenue. This esplanade extends about 400 metres from the plaza in front of the Columns Hall, where many smaller dimension roads initiate that cross the Malpaso Valley. In order to construct this road, as well as the majority of other roads, side walls were built of stone slabs and stone; later the area in between the walls was covered with stone slabs and a pavement made of clay and pebbles. If the proportion of this element with respect to other dimensions of the site is considered, its size is remarkable. In addition, there are vestiges to two altars at the main entrance end. Recent studies confirm the existence of more than 170 kilometers of roads that cross the valley and interconnect several other smaller archaeological sites.\n\nBallgame Court. This structure, of mesoamerican features, was constructed on an enormous platform that extends from the north of the Votive Pyramid throughout the access stairway at the south slope of the court. It measures 70 by 15 metres and it displays the characteristic letter \"I\" shape; the side walls are as wide as those of the Columns Hall (2.70 meters) and assumed a height of between three and five meters. As is the case in almost all archaeological sites in Mexico, this site has had vandalism.\n\nVotive Pyramid. This structure, more than 10 metres high, is highlighted by the angle of its slopes. During Corona Nuñez works, in 1995, slope vestiges with remains of a stairway were found, that ascended the south side of the pyramid. With time the middle and top parts crumbled to the ground, where they can be seen at the present time. Originally, the stairway reached the top of the pyramid where a room or temple constructed with perishable materials apparently existed.\n\nStairway. At about 30 metres west of the Votive Pyramid this stairway was discovered, was used as main access to the top levels of the site. It was constructed in two stages; the first, that approximately reached the middle of the height now observed, apparently it was round shape, and can be associated with shapes of now missing structures; the second, built over the former and with greater height, it reached the walkway on the second level, evidence shows ties with a two ramp stairway that ascended to the third level. At a point in time the main stairway was cancelled, by defence reasons by means of the retaining wall, limiting access.\n\nIn the third level sector of the site, on the west side of the hill, are numerous platforms or terraces that, according to recent investigation works are residential areas; to date 25 structures constructed towards 650 AD, have been identified.\n\nThis wall (\"Muralla\" is the protective perimeter wall) is emphasized, by its dimensions (four metres high by three metres thick) as well as by its location on edges of the cliffs surrounding the north and northeast parts of the site. Apparently this structure was constructed towards the end of the occupation of La Quemada and, perhaps, it represents one of the best indicators of the problems faced by city residents as well as their perseverance to remain there.\n\nLocated at the highest part of the site, several buildings have been identified, possibly used for ceremonial and defensive purposes.\n\nHeadquarters. This structure probably was used to build houses. Reportedly, the roof caught fire and collapsed. The reference web page has photographs.\n\nSacrifices pyramid, Structure and terrace 18. It is believed that human sacrifices for the gods were conducted here. (Photographs at the referenced web page, courtesy of Ricardo Espejel)\n\nLocated in the archaeological zone, its architectonic design was conceived such that it integrates to the surrounding landscape and the archaeological site by the use of material characteristic of the buildings constructed in the site (stone slabs, stucco and finishing). This museum offers a panorama of the region archaeological evolution through diverse informative elements, a site scale model and descriptive videos of the main prehispanic settlements in Zacatecas: Loma San Gabriel, Chalchihuites and of course La Quemada.\n\n"}
{"id": "26472841", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26472841", "title": "List of Polish lawyers", "text": "List of Polish lawyers\n\nThe following is a list of notable Polish lawyers.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15213604", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15213604", "title": "List of Time Team episodes", "text": "List of Time Team episodes\n\nThe following is a list of episodes of \"Time Team\", a British television programme about archaeology, that has aired on Channel 4 since 16 January 1994. The twentieth series started on 11 November 2012, with its final episode broadcast on 10 March 2013. Nine further specials (essentially an irregularly scheduled twenty-first series) aired through 2013 and 2014.\n\nThe episode numbers follow the order of first transmission.\n\nThese are more documentaries and not really a regular type of episode.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38761204", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38761204", "title": "List of books about skepticism", "text": "List of books about skepticism\n\nThis list of books about skepticism is a skeptic's library of works centered on scientific skepticism, religious skepticism, critical thinking, scientific literacy, and refutation of claims of the paranormal. It also includes titles about atheism, irreligion, books for \"young skeptics\" and related subjects. It is intended as a starting point for research into these areas of study.\n\nCollections in the realm of skepticism, science literacy, and freethought exist both online and in brick-and-mortar libraries. The complete works of Robert G. Ingersoll are available online at both the Secular Web and as part of the Internet Archive project The Drew University Library hosts a collection of pamphlets by and about Mr. Ingersoll. In 2013 the Library of Congress announced the opening of the Seth MacFarlane Collection of the Carl Sagan and Ann Druyan Archive which includes more than 1,500 boxes of donated material. MacFarlane donated the funds which allowed the Library of Congress to purchase a collection of Carl Sagan's notes from Anne Druyan (widow of Carl Sagan) because of his concern over fading science literacy.\n\nTo sort the table, click the arrow in any header cell.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4116387", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4116387", "title": "List of extinct languages in Central America and the Caribbean", "text": "List of extinct languages in Central America and the Caribbean\n\nThis is a list of extinct languages of Central America and the Caribbean, languages which have undergone language death, have no native speakers, and no spoken descendants. There are 10 languages listed\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "21902472", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21902472", "title": "Llywarch Reynolds", "text": "Llywarch Reynolds\n\nLlywarch Owarin Reynolds (1843 – 12 March 1916) was a Welsh solicitor and Celtic scholar, who collected a large number of manuscripts that are now held by the National Library of Wales.\n\nReynolds was the son of Jonathan Owain Reynolds, an author and translator. He was born in 1843 and educated at Llandovery College before being articled to solicitors in Merthyr Tydfil, south Wales. In 1868, Reynolds matriculated at Jesus College, Oxford, obtaining a Bachelor of Arts degree in 1875. He returned to work as a solicitor in Merthyr, later setting up his own firm and becoming clerk to Rhymney District Council. He collected various books and manuscripts, 28 volumes of which were bequeathed to the National Library of Wales on his death, including \"Llyuyr Hir Llywarch Reynolds\", a collection of Welsh poems from the seventeenth century. Reynolds was a friend of the Welsh scholar and academic Sir John Rhys, and helped in 1893 to publish the essay written by Thomas Stephens that disproved the claim that Prince Madoc had discovered America. Reynolds died on 12 March 1916 in Brislington, Bristol.\n"}
{"id": "3573142", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3573142", "title": "Mormonism and history", "text": "Mormonism and history\n\nThe Mormon religion is predicated on what are said to be historical events such as the First Vision of Joseph Smith and the historicity of the Book of Mormon, which describes a detailed pre-Columbian history of the Americas. President Joseph Fielding Smith, the tenth LDS prophet, declared that \"Mormonism, as it is called, must stand or fall on the story of Joseph Smith. He was either a prophet of God, divinely called, properly appointed and commissioned, or he was one of the biggest frauds this world has ever seen. There is no middle ground.\" As Jan Shipps has written, \"Mormonism, unlike other modern religions, is a faith cast in the form of history,\" and until after World War II, Mormons did not critically examine the historical underpinnings of their faith; any \"profane\" investigation of the Church's history was perceived \"as trespassing on forbidden ground.\"\n\nAlthough traditional Christianity is likewise a history religion, few primary sources survive from two or three millennia ago, and biblical places such as Jerusalem, Jericho, and Bethlehem, are acknowledged to exist by scholars of every religious persuasion. Likewise, the Assyrian and Babylonian empires mentioned in the Bible are treated in all histories of the ancient Near East. By contrast, locations of Book of Mormon places are disputed even by Mormons, and the existence of those places is not acknowledged by any non-Mormon scholars. Martin Marty, a Lutheran scholar of American religion, has observed that LDS beginnings are so recent \"that there is no place to hide...There is little protection for Mormon sacredness.\"\n\nAs Richard and Joan Ostling have written, \"Mormons remember.\" There has been an official church historian since the organization of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and \"Mormon youths and their sisters are exhorted to keep journals as part of their religious commitment. Missionaries are reminded by their superiors that the journals represent a part of their sacred duties.\" The pioneer era is an especially fertile field for faith-promoting history. As Wallace Stegner has written, the \"tradition of the pioneer that is strong all through the West is a cult in Utah.\" Mormons \"tell and retell their stories of pioneer privations and persecutions.\" Mormon young people are often given the opportunity to pull a handcart through a patch of desert; Mormon children are early taught the miracle of the gulls, the story of seagulls that supposedly saved the crops of the earliest Utah pioneers from an invasion of crickets in 1848.\n\nUnder President Joseph F. Smith, the LDS Church began to purchase, refurbish, and reconstruct its sacred sites, beginning with Carthage Jail in 1903. \"Visitors' centers, restored houses, historic parks, monuments, and trail markers sprouted everywhere.\" In 1999 the Church maintained forty-four such sites, many of which were staffed by Mormon missionaries.\n\nMormons have also developed \"something of an annual outdoor pageant circuit\" which serves as both a proselytizing tool and a \"faith-affirming\" experience to the volunteer participants and most of the audience. An elaborate Hill Cumorah pageant, on the site where the golden plates are said to have been revealed to Joseph Smith, has been annually performed since 1937. Other LDS pageants are regularly performed in eight locations in the United States, including Nauvoo, Illinois; Independence, Missouri; Manti, Utah; and Oakland, California.\n\nLikewise, the LDS Church has regularly produced faith-promoting films with excellent production values for showing in Salt Lake City and at the visitors' centers of Mormon historic sites. Recent films include \"\" (1990), \"The Testaments of One Fold and One Shepherd\" (2000), and \"\" (2005). As Richard and Joan Ostling have written, \"Legacy\" is \"an example of ritualized history, effectively idealized and simplified.\" In discussing the Mormon pioneer heritage, \"there is no hint of polygamy or millennial land claims or any other distinctive Mormon doctrine, just the idea that a prophet Joseph Smith came up with a new sacred book asking people to lead holy lives.\" Smith dies as a martyr without mention of Mormon destruction of a Nauvoo newspaper, which triggered the crisis. Nevertheless, \"the drama and scenery of the trek are so beautifully photographed\" that many Mormons saw the movie repeatedly when visiting Temple Square.\n\nMormon high school students are encouraged to take seminary, a four-year course of religious study. These one-year courses have annual focus on the following: The Old Testament, the New Testament, the Book of Mormon, and Church history and Doctrine and Covenants. The objective is to enable each student to be familiar with the scriptures and to assist them in applying gospel principles in their daily life. College age students between the ages of 18 and 30 are also encouraged to take religious classes known as \"Institute\". At private Church-sponsored universities and colleges, religion courses are required for graduation. Comparatively little of Mormon doctrinal teaching involves \"what traditional Christian catechism would call 'pure theology.' Mormon \"history evolves as part of the church's canon,\" and an LDS Correlation Committee attempts to ensure that \"all church publications, from periodicals to curriculum materials, follow official policy and express official interpretations. This means that sensitive historical issues frequently are downplayed, avoided, or denied.\"\n\nEven the scriptures have been rewritten to fit current doctrine, in line with the idea of continuity and progressive revelation. But once a new version is published, historians are not supposed to notice the change, nor can they write about variations in previous editions. The church regards such reminders as unacceptably embarrassing. The result has been something of an underground traffic in early church documents and editions.\" \n\nHistorian D. Michael Quinn, later excommunicated from the LDS Church, noted that traditional \"Mormon apologists discuss such 'sensitive evidence' only when this evidence is so well known that ignoring it is almost impossible.\" In an oft-quoted speech to Church educators in 1981, Apostle Boyd Packer warned them from the temptation \"to tell everything, whether it is worthy or faith-promoting or not...In an effort to be objective, impartial, and scholarly, a writer or a teacher may unwittingly be giving equal time to the adversary...Do not spread disease germs!\" In addition, speaking on \"scholars\" and \"intellectuals,\" Boyd K. Packer also stated \"The dangers I speak of come from the gay-lesbian movement, the feminist movement (both of which are relatively new), and the ever-present challenge from the so-called scholars or intellectuals.\" Packer went so far as to question the spirituality of some Mormon historians \"One who chooses to follow the tenets of his profession, regardless of how they may injure the church or destroy the faith of those not ready for 'advanced history' is himself in spiritual jeopardy.\" In the same talk Packer described how the things historians tell one another are not uplifting and \"go far beyond the audience they may have intended, and destroy faith.\"\n\nBoyd K. Packer has not been the only LDS Church leader critical of historians. Ezra Taft Benson, 13th president of the LDS Church, has also been outspoken concerning LDS historians. According to Benson This humanistic emphasis on history is not confined only to secular history; there have been and continue to be attempts made to bring this philosophy into our own Church history. Again the emphasis is to underplay revelation and God's intervention in significant events, and to inordinately humanize the prophets of God so that their human frailties become more evident than their spiritual qualities. Benson also warns historians against adding context and background information concerning revelations and LDS history. According to one historian citing Benson Elder Benson gives as examples the discussion by historians of the American temperance movement in the 1830s as part of the circumstances out of which Joseph Smith obtained the revelation on the Word of Wisdom, and he referred to historians who explained the revelation on the three degrees of glory in terms of contemporary questions by American philosophers about the afterlife \n\nThe result of this attitude of Mormonism toward history is that truth, \"supposedly embedded in history,\" becomes \"dynamic and fluid.\" Therefore, as Marxist historian Mark Leone has written, \"the church has discouraged any intellectual tradition that would interfere with disguising historical factors or with maintaining much of the social reality through the uncritical way lay history is done.\"\n\nDuring the early years of the church, Mormons concentrated on telling providential history as they had been commanded to do by Joseph Smith. Church clerks compiled a history of the Latter-day Saint movement, weaving the accounts of various people together \"into a seamless narrative as though Smith himself were speaking.\" Then between 1902 and 1912, Mormon apologist B. H. Roberts prepared the work for publication, including as part of the title the phrase \"History of Joseph Smith the Prophet, by Himself.\" \"Even worse than causing confusion over Smith's lack of authorship, Roberts made corrections, deletions, and emendations to the six-volume work without explaining his reasons for doing so.\"\n\nIn the twentieth century, the term \"faithful history\" became a synonym for official Mormon historical writing that was apologetic and celebratory and that downplayed or avoided \"sensitive aspects of Mormon history.\" \"If the scholar was Mormon and the church did not like the message, it attacked the messenger.\"\n\nBetween the works of \"faithful historians\" and historical works created by disillusioned Mormons, such as Fawn Brodie's \"No Man Knows My History\" (1945), grew the New Mormon History, which emphasized \"examining the Mormon past in the hope of understanding it\" rather than attacking or defending the religion itself. The most noted of the early New Mormon Historians was Leonard J. Arrington, who earned his doctorate in economics but whose early work culminated in the publication of \"Great Basin Kingdom, An Economic History of the Latter-day Saints\" (Harvard University Press, 1958), which became \"a watershed in the writing of the New Mormon History.\" Arrington was important in the organization of the Mormon Historical Association in 1965 and became its first president.\n\nIn 1972, Arrington was called to serve as the LDS Church Historian, although he was not a General Authority. But Arrington's attempt to publish New Mormon History through the Church Historian's office met stiff resistance from members of the Quorum of the Twelve, specifically Ezra Taft Benson, Mark E. Peterson, and Boyd K. Packer, who according to D. Michael Quinn \"shared a suspicion of what was going on in the historical department and misgivings concerning Leonard's appointment.\" Some of Arrington's subordinates were not allowed to publish through church organs or imprints, and they were eventually removed. Privately, Arrington wrote, \"Our great experiment in church-sponsored history has proved to be, if not a failure, at least not an unqualified success.\" In 1982, the First Presidency sent Arrington a personal letter releasing him from his call as church historian, and the release \"was not publicly announced in General Conference.\" The East Wing of the Church Office Building contains a gallery of portraits of all the church historians—except for Arrington. According to Quinn discussing Arrington as the LDS Church historian \"Leonard became the fall guy … and the apostles blamed him for everyone who was disturbed or upset or embarrassed about something that they read based upon research that was done since 1972.\" \n\nMormon studies became an increasingly hazardous pursuit for Mormon scholars, \"especially if they were members of the Brigham Young University faculty.\" The Church restricted access to papers formerly available to non-Mormons and asked researchers to sign releases \"giving the church permission to exercise pre-publication censorship.\" The sensational Mark Hofmann murder and forgery case of 1985, could only have developed from the \"curious mixture of paranoia and obsessiveness\" with which both the LDS Church and individual Mormons approached the history of their faith.\n\nSome LDS Church historians have lost their membership after publishing their work. The most well-known is former BYU Professor D. Michael Quinn, who was eventually excommunicated for insubordination. To become a BYU professor, Quinn had to meet with LDS Church Apostle Boyd K. Packer, and according to Quinn, Packer told him at that meeting that he had \"a hard time with historians, because historians idolize the truth.\"\n\nLater Quinn's local bishop told him that on the authority of LDS Church Apostles, he had been asked to withdraw Quinn's temple recommend until Quinn agreed to stop publishing material damaging to the LDS Church, which it viewed as \"speaking ill of the Lords anointed\". According to Quinn, the bishop told him to \"find some way to do history without these conflicts with the brethren.\" Quinn said he replied that he would do his best but that he did not know how he \"could do both at the same time.\" Because BYU professors were required to have a temple recommend, the bishop put the recommend in his desk drawer and told Quinn if anyone asked him if he had a temple recommend, he could say yes.\n\nQuinn taught at BYU for a few more years but eventually decided to resign rather than be forced out. Quinn never again held an academic position and was eventually excommunicated from the Church for insubordination because he refused to meet with LDS local leaders concerning “an accusation of apostasy based upon my publications.\"\n\nRichard Bushman, an academic historian who is also a believing Mormon has written about the tension he feels in writing accurately while also supporting his faith. In his book, \"Rough Stone Rolling\", he does not conceal the more controversial aspects of Joseph Smith's character, but he does try to ameliorate their impact on believing readers while still maintaining historical objectivity. In his essay \"The Balancing Act: A Mormon historian reflects on his biography of Joseph Smith,\" Bushman noted that one reviewer had written of his \"walking a high wire between the demands of church conformity and the necessary openness of scholarly investigation.\" In response, Bushman argued that one did not have to be objective to write history. Passion and belief are certainly not requirements for historical inquiry, but neither are they crippling handicaps. Once we relinquish, as we must, the \"noble dream\" of objective history, personal commitment becomes a valuable resource…Contrary to the idea that belief closes the mind, our passions open our eyes and ears. Stifling my belief in Joseph Smith would extinguish one of my greatest assets.\n\nBushman said that he could not give way to writing a hagiography because I also knew that if I overly idealized Smith, I would lose credibility with non-Mormons. With a broad readership in mind, I could not conceal his flaws. Moreover, I tried to voice unbelieving readers’ likely reactions when Smith married additional wives or taught doctrines foreign to modern sensibilities. When he went beyond the pale, I acknowledged readers’ dismay.\n\nIn a short but revealing book published after his book tour for \"Rough Stone Rolling\", Bushman concluded that he had \"the educated Mormons\" with him but that although he had the respect of most non-Mormon scholars, he did not have \"their acquiescence. I have not given them a Joseph they can believe in.\"\n\nInitially Palmer was hired to teach history at the Church College of New Zealand. Shortly later he began teaching religion, which led to a 34-year career in the Church Educational System CES. He was director of the LDS Institute of Religion in Whittier, California (1970–73) followed by Chico, California (1975–80). Returning to Utah, he then taught LDS seminary at East High School in 1980 and at Brighton High School from 1980 to 1988. \n\nDuring this time the infamous Salamander Letter surfaced, challenging the orthodox story of Mormon beginnings, though the letter was eventually found to be a forgery. As an ardent student of LDS history the letter caused Palmer to consider the influences of American folk magic on Joseph Smith's religious practices. In 1985 Palmer's research on this issue led him to write and circulate a manuscript called \"New York Mormonism\" under the pseudonym \"Paul Pry, Jr.\" which became the first draft of \"An Insider's View of Mormon Origins\". As he grew uneasy with some aspects of LDS history, Palmer approached his CES supervisor about changing positions to teach adults at the Salt Lake County Jail. Teaching more general Christian and Biblical lessons of faith and ethics to all inmates, he was the jail's chaplain and director of its Institute program from 1988 until his 2001 retirement. He also served on the board of directors of the Salt Lake Legal Defenders Association.\n\nAfter completing his long-coming manuscript, he published the controversial book \"An Insider's View of Mormon Origins\" with Signature Books in 2002, in which Palmer challenged the orthodox teachings of Mormonism's beginnings. Palmer's prison teaching led him to write another book, \"The Incomparable Jesus\", published by Greg Kofford Books in 2005.\n\nIn 2003 \"An Insider's View\" was criticized by BYU's Foundation for Ancient Research and Mormon Studies (FARMS) in reviews written by Daniel C. Peterson, Davis Bitton, Steven C. Harper, Mark Ashurst-McGee, and Louis Midgley. These were published in the \"FARMS Review\" alongside an official statement from BYU's Joseph Fielding Smith Institute for Latter-day Saint History disagreeing with Palmer's conclusions. In the following \"Review\" issue, historian James B. Allen published another critical review.\n\nPalmer asserts that he was disfellowshipped from the LDS Church in December 2004 as a result of his book, \"An Insider's View of Mormon Origins\", which was skeptical of Mormonism's claimed origins (being disfellowshipped results in probational loss of some church privileges without being forced to leave the church).\n\nPalmer concluded that while he liked many of the teachings of Joseph Smith, \"the foundational events in church history are too problematic to ignore\". He found that much of what Latter Day Saints take for granted as literal history has, over the years, been modified to emphasize certain aspects over others. This, he believes, has resulted in an inaccurate picture of LDS Church history.\n\nPalmer argues also that the Mormon Jesus is very different to the current Christian Jesus due to the modern practices of the LDS Church such as forced tithing, avoidance of wine drinking and use of special clothing.\n\nIn 2008 Palmer wrote an article in The Salt Lake Tribune comparing the Mormon and Catholic Churches to the Pharisees, whose observance of strict laws and oral traditions was decried by Jesus. Palmer believed that, instead, a true belief in Christian religion is centered in individually becoming good and loving people. \n\nPalmer stated in a Mormon Stories interview in 2012 that due to the publication of a two and half page article in 2010, \"Religious feeling and truth\", for an obscure Baptist journal in Kansas City, a second disciplinary council was scheduled but Palmer handed in his resignation before the hearing was held. Several reasons led to his decision, mainly, that the first disciplinary council lasted an exhausting seven hours and he did not want to repeat that experience and also that the presiding authority of the second council let him know beforehand that to stay a member and avoid excommunication he would need to repudiate all of the details from his book and also regain his testimony of the church.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33716838", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33716838", "title": "Murasaki Shikibu Diary Emaki", "text": "Murasaki Shikibu Diary Emaki\n\nThe is a mid-13th century emaki, a Japanese picture scroll, inspired by the private diary (\"nikki\") of Murasaki Shikibu, lady-in-waiting at the 10th/11th centuries Heian court and author of \"The Tale of Genji\". This emaki belongs to the classical style of Japanese painting known as \"yamato-e\" and revives the iconography of the Heian period.\n\nToday there remain four paper scrolls of the emaki in varying condition and stored in different collections: Hachisuka, Matsudaira, Hinohara scrolls (Tokyo), and Fujita scroll (Fujita Art Museum, Osaka). Of the extant scrolls, the first relates the celebrations on occasion of the birth of prince Atsunari (Atsuhira, later Emperor Go-Ichijō) in 1008 and the last those of the birth of Prince Atsunaga (later Emperor Go-Suzaku) in 1009. This difference in time indicates that the original emaki most likely consisted of more scrolls than exist today.\n\n records the daily life of the Heian era lady-in-waiting and writer, Lady Murasaki Shikibu, author of \"The Tale of Genji\". Most likely written between 1008 and 1010, the largest portion consists of descriptive passages of the birth of Empress Shōshi's (Akiko) children (future Emperors Go-Ichijō and Go-Suzaku) and related festivities, with smaller vignettes describing life at the Imperial court and relations between other ladies-in-waiting and court writers such as Izumi Shikibu, Akazome Emon and Sei Shōnagon. It also gives a lively account of the regency of the powerful Fujiwara no Michinaga. Like the romantic novel Genji Monogatari, the diary deals with emotions and human relationships, particularly with Murasaki Shikibu's constraints at the court of Akiko, loneliness and futility after her husband's death (in 1001). The author is critical of her contemporaries, the men for their discourteous ways (including Fujiwara no Michinaga) and the women for their inexperience and lack of education and will. The diary is considered a masterpiece of Nikki Bungaku.\n\nEmaki, which are long paper scrolls telling a story through texts and paintings, came to Japan through exchange with the Chinese Empire around the 6th century and spread widely among the Heian aristocracy. The subsequent Kamakura period was marked by internal strife and civil wars that fostered the rise of the warrior class. If the warriors of the \"bakufu\" preferred \"quick-moving narrative scrolls\" such as war tales or legends, the production of emaki at the Heian court subsisted. Pictures illustrating \"The Tale of Genji\" continued to be popular into the early Kamakura period and revived interest in the author, Murasaki Shikibu. Towards the end of the 13th century, a renewed interest in the refined culture of the Heian period led some artists to return to painting styles of the Imperial Court; many emaki were produced during this period.\n\nThe \"Murasaki Shikibu Diary Emaki\" belongs to this golden age of the emaki and according to Penelope Mason \"may be regarded as one of the finest extant examples of prose-poetry narrative illustration from the Kamakura period\". It was created about 200 years after the diary was written, in the mid-13th century. It transcribes the solitude and the observations of palace life from the diary but adds to the text a certain nostalgia for the glorious past of the Heian court which is typical for the 13th century, giving an overall feeling of \"lost golden age\", according to Mason, even during happy events such as parties. The explanatory notes (or captions), i.e. the non-painting part, show little textual deviations from the diary.\n\nAn emaki of Murasaki Shikibu's diary is mentioned in the \"Meigetsuki\" (\"Record of the clean moon\"), the diary of the poet and scholar Fujiwara no Teika. According to this document, in 1233 several aristocrats close to cloistered Emperor Go-Horikawa planned to create a new emaki of \"The Tale of Genji\" (after the 12th century Genji Monogatari Emaki, the best known of these works), accompanied by another of Murasaki's diary. However, there is no conclusive evidence that the extant scrolls correspond to those mentioned by Fujiwara no Teika, even though the consistency of manufacturing dates suggests that this is the case. The paintings of the emaki have been attributed to the painter Fujiwara Nobuzane and the captions to the excellent calligrapher Gokyōgoku (後京極良経, 1169–1206), despite definitive evidence.\n\nTwo elements are found in the illustrations of the emaki: people indoors engaging in activities typical of the aristocracy of the period, such as writing letters, playing instruments, exchanging poems or talking to each other; and the gardens outside their buildings. For this reason, Mason calls the people in the emaki \"house bound\". The leftward direction of scroll reading is reflected in the composition of paintings and pictures which may build to a climax from right to left; or a main event presented on the right may be followed by its after-effects to the left. Stylistically the emaki follows the principles of the \"onna-e\" genre of \"yamato-e\" and is in this respect similar to the Tale of Genji Scrolls (1120–1140) but differs from them in many other aspects. Typical for \"onna-e\", the paintings depict life at the palace with a sense of nostalgia, timeless and very retained, but purely decorative elements such as landscapes and contemplative scenes are added. Illustrations are relatively short compared to emaki of war or folktales, which according to Mason, \"heightens the symbolic quality of non-figural motifs\".\n\nThe painting technique of \"tsukuri-e\" (\"built painting\"), used mainly in emaki of the court in the twelfth century, is also used here. It is done in three stages: a first sketch of the scene is made with Indian ink (probably by a master of the workshop), then the color is applied on the entire surface of the paper in a specific order, from large areas in the background to fine details. Finally, the contours are enhanced or revived in ink to emphasize the depth. However, a visible change in style may again be noted, because the pigments are here less opaque than usual, and the more subtle shades are highlighted by fine outlines in ink; and in addition, the decorative aspect emerges strongly through extensive use of gold dust, and sometimes of silver. According to Mason, the technique seems to be less careful than in the past, as can be seen in elements of the architectural interior (sliding doors, screens ...) which lack detail or in the silver powder which is used much less often in general compared to gold.\n\nThe cultural changes after the Heian period resulted in a more realistic depiction of figures including movements and gestures.\nAbandoning the Heian period \"hikime kagibana\" style (\"slit eyes, hooked nose\"), figures were painted individual features and facial expressions that conveyed emotions and moods. More generally, M. Murase notes that the expression of feelings subtly changed compared to the scrolls of the 12th century; here the rooms (or the inner space, because it depends on the fusuma) in the palace are larger and less intimate or private, and nobles come and go naturally and determined. Unlike earlier scrolls such as the Genji Emaki, in which architecture and landscape were used as metaphors for people's emotions, interpersonal or societal pressures, in these scrolls the people's feelings are painted directly on the faces or shown through gestures, in addition to being expressed by the placement of characters within the scene. Architectural elements such as pillars, beams or platforms continued to be used to convey moods. Landscapes stand on their own as they are detached from the characters' emotions and gain a new function as a place to escape from the constraints of court life.\n\nLike most emaki, the composition is based on the \"fukinuki yatai\" (\"blown-off roof\") technique, which consists of a perspective of looking down from above into the inner spaces resulting in a plunging view. Furthermore, diagonals are used to mark depth. Compared to earlier scrolls, in these scrolls, the interior spaces are depicted from a more normal perspective such as through rolled up bamboo blinds (\"misu\") or spaces in the walls where sliding panels (\"fusuma\") had been removed. The pace that is intentionally slow in \"tsukuri-e\", here seems slightly faster with illustrations depicting a single occurrence in time and temporally related events positioned close to each other in the emaki.\n\nThis new decorative approach to paintings of the court (\"onna-e\") inspired by the themes of literature is evident in several other works of the Kamakura period, such as uta monogatari (e.g. \"The Tales of Ise Emaki\"), tsukuri monogatari (e.g. \"Sumiyoshi Monogatari Emaki\") and romances (e.g. ).\n\nThe illustrations provide insight into life and festivities at the Heian Palace; which sometimes consisted of something as simple as games on the lake although those might have been perceived differently at the time of manufacture. Like other picture scrolls on court life such as the Genji Monogatari Emaki or the Pillow Book Emaki (\"Makura no Sōshi Emaki\") they provide valuable information on the architectural shinden-zukuri style (particularly on interiors) which is characterized by a mixture of Tang and traditional Japanese influences.\n\nIt is thought that the emaki originally consisted of 10–12 scrolls. The ancestral heritage of the emaki before the Edo period is not known and an investigation conducted during the Meiji period, found that only four scrolls had survived, each high and about long. The owners and state of preservation of all four scrolls has since changed. The extant parts correspond to about 15 percent of the original diary and are not in sequence. They consist of 24 scenes of varying widths distributed among three scrolls, six single sheets and two hanging scrolls in six different locations: Fujita Art Museum, Gotoh Museum, Tokyo National Museum and three private collections. Each scroll begins with a text section and generally alternates scene descriptions with illustrations, ending with a painting. In two instances a long text section is split in two parts and the Hachisuka scroll has an accumulation of three illustrations unseparated by text, and an accumulation of two unseparated independent text sections.\n\nChronologically the oldest scenes of the emaki, combined with some of the later anecdotes in the diary, are contained in the Hachisuka scroll. Named after its former owner, the Hachisuka clan, rulers of the Tokushima Domain in Awa Province, this scroll is privately owned. It consists of eight illustrations and seven text sections on 16 paper sheets. The long third text section is split in two parts and followed by three illustrations. The seventh text section immediately follows the sixth without a painting between the two. The full scroll is long and has been designated as Important Cultural Property. Scenes 1–5 correspond to a continuous part of the diary and are the oldest diary entries represented by any of the four extant emaki scrolls. Scenes 6 and 7 correspond to later diary entries and appear in the diary after several of the scenes described in the other three extant scrolls.\n\nThe Hachisuka scroll starts with a description of a banquet given by the queen's majordomo and managed by the governor of Ōmi Province on Kankō 5, 9th month, 13th day (October 14, 1008), the third night of the birth of Atsuhira-shinnō, the later Emperor Go-Ichijō. On that occasion, the mother, Empress Shōshi received presents such as baby clothes and furniture. The illustration associated with this scene shows court nobles on the balconies outside of the principal building in which the queen is located.\n\nThe second to fifth scenes of the Hachisuka scroll are set in the evening of Kankō 5, 9th month, 15th day (October 16, 1008). On that day, the prime minister and baby's grandfather, Fujiwara no Michinaga, celebrates the birth. In the second text scene of the emaki, Murasaki Shikibu describes how everybody including servants, minor officials and high nobility was joyful and happy. Tables with rice balls (mochi) were placed in the garden, the full moon shone beautifully and torches made the scene as bright as in daylight. There is one illustration following this scene.\n\nThe third text is split in two parts, followed by three illustrations. The text contains a detailed description of how the dinner was served to the queen including the names of the maids of honour and their father's names. The ladies who had not been selected to attend \"wept bitterly\". Other people involved in the ceremony included uneme, mohitori, migusiage, tonomori, kanmori no nyokwan and door keepers. According to Murasaki Shikibu so many people were involved that it was hard to get through.\nThe relatively short fourth scene describes that the maids of honour exit from the queen's room which had been partitioned off by \"misu\" entering the torch-lit garden. It also gives more details and an interpretation of the dress of one of those maids, Lady Oshikibu.\nThe short fifth passage is a continuation of the previous events and relates an exchange of courtesies between court ladies and a monk who had kept night watch telling religious and other stories. Murasaki Shikibu tells him: \"You cannot see such a lovely thing every day\", to which he replies: \"Indeed! indeed!\" clapping his hands in joy and neglecting his Buddha. The illustration shows an elderly priest near the left border of the painting pushing open a folding screen beyond which three court ladies are seated. Murasaki Shikibu is seated closest to the monk directly behind the screen.\n\nThis anecdote, the sixth scene of the Hachisuka scroll, occurs at an unspecified date in 1009. It is part of a description of the lady Saemon no Naishi who, Murasaki Shikibu writes in the diary, hated her. Naishi spread the rumour that Murasaki Shikibu was proud of her Chinese learning (which in the Heian period was the domain of the male aristocracy) and gave her the name \"Japanese Chronicle Lady\". In the anecdote, Murasaki Shikibu explains she learned Chinese in childhood, that she was taught not to be proud of her learning, keeping it a secret during her life in fear of how others would judge her. The text in the emaki relates how Empress Shōshi requested that Murasaki Shikibu read to her in Chinese and teach her the poetical works of Bai Juyi (in particular the part known as ) in secrecy. Nevertheless, the Emperor and Prime Minister found out about it and presented to the Empress a number of poetical works.\n\nThis final scene in the Hachisuka scroll is about a scene from the Gosechi, an ancient dance performed by young beautiful girls in the 11th month to celebrate the harvest. The emaki text begins with a description of the appearance and clothing of two of the participating girls and ends with a scene in which the girls throw down their fans as the secretaries of the sixth rank approached them to take away their fans. Murasaki Shikibu considered the dancers graceful but unlike girls. This particular scene is set on Kankō 5, 11th month, 22nd day (December 22, 1008).\n\nThe Hachisuka scroll contains paintings which are not associated with any text sections of the scroll. The fifth painting of the scroll corresponds to a scene described in the second text section of the Hinohara scroll, where Murasaki Shikibu is looking back to her first time at court. The painting shows Murasaki Shikibu inside a room with closed \"tsumado\" (hinged plank door) and \"shitomido\" (latticed shutters). Next to her is an old-fashioned interior light-fixture consisting of a wooden pole with an oil-filled dish and wick on top of it (\"tōdai\").\n\nThe final illustration of the Hachisuka scroll has no corresponding text section in the extant emaki fragments. However its content can be matched to a scene from the diary in which Murasaki Shikibu expresses her sorrows as a widow worrying about the future. She relates how she is gazing dreamily at the moon when she is \"hopelessly sad\" and lonely. Playing the koto (a kind of horizontal harp) on a cool evening makes her even more miserable. This section of the diary also contains a short description of her room containing two bookcases, one with books that her husband had placed there and that no one has touched since, the other with \"old poems and romances\", likely referring to her own works. This scene is set on an unknown date in Kankō 6 (1009). The illustration present in the emaki shows Murasaki Shikibu inside a tatami room playing the koto with a court lady walking outside her room on the balcony (\"engawa\").\n\nFormerly in possession of the , rulers of the Tatebayashi Domain in Kōzuke Province, the extant Fujita scroll alternates five sections of text and five paintings. Based on this ancestral heritage it is sometimes referred to as former Akimoto scroll. A sixth text only section has been preserved as a 19th-century copy from the original emaki. The extant scroll is long, in possession of the Fujita Art Museum, Osaka and was designated as National Treasure of Japan on June 28, 1956. It covers the time from the evening of the 5th day celebration of the birth of the first Imperial Prince, Atsuhira-shinnō, the later Emperor Go-Ichijō, and ends with the furnishing of Michinaga's residence for the visit of Emperor Ichijō.\n\nSet shortly after the fifth scene of the Hachisuka scroll, this scene relates events from the evening of Kankō 5, 9th month, 15th day (October 16, 1008), the day Michinaga celebrated the birth of Atsuhira-shinnō. Some people were casting \"da\" others composed poems. Murasaki Shikibu then praises Fujiwara no Kintō's repartee and skills in the composition of poetry; however on this evening he did not participate in the exchange of poems. The queen gave gift of robes and baby dresses to the highest ranked ladies; lined kimonos to those of 4th rank; and hakama to the lesser sixth ranked ladies.\n\nThe second section is a direct continuation of the previous scene, recounting an outing of young courtiers, dressed in white, going boating on a moonlit night the following day (Kankō 5, 9th month, 16th day, or 17 October 1008 in the Gregorian calendar). The ladies left behind appeared jealous according to Murasaki Shikibu.\nContinuing from the previous scene, confusion occurs among the people in the boats as palanquins of ladies-in-waiting of the Emperor's court appear near the shelter for conveyances. Michinaga welcomes them happily and distributes gifts among them.\n\nThe Emperor celebrated on Kankō 5, 9th month, 17th day (October 18, 1008), the seventh day of the birth of Atsuhira-shinnō. Presents were exchanged between court nobles and the Emperor. During the evening ceremony, Murasaki Shikibu catches a glance of the queen, remarking that she appeared weary, having lost weight and gaining a pale complexion. Her \"hair would be better tied up\" writes Murasaki Shikibu; however she stops the description, realizing the impropriety of her depiction of the \"mother of the nation\".\n\nSet some time between Kankō 5, 10th month, 13th day and the morning of 16th day (November 13 to 16, 1008), this scene begins with a description of planting chrysanthemums at Michinaga's mansion in preparation for the Emperor's visit. In the second part of the section, Murasaki Shikibu is musing about her melancholic life because of an \"extraordinary sorrow\", wishing to be more adaptable and mindless. Wondering whether she is too sinful, she yearns for a religious life. Seeing waterfowl playing heedlessly in a pond, she writes the following waka:\n<poem>\nWaterfowl floating on the water—\nThey seem so gay,\nBut in truth\nIt is not gay to live anxiously seeking means of existence.\n</poem>\nA sixth text section of the Fujita scroll has been preserved in the form of a copy from the original manuscript made by (1875–1975), researcher and collector of Japanese fine arts who also assisted in the reproduction of old writings and ancient paintings including the Genji Monogatari Emaki. Starting in 1894 he worked on the reproduction of the Murasaki Shikibu Nikki Emaki. This text fragment does not include any illustration and is in possession of the Tanaka family.\n\nThe scene, which in the diary directly follows the fifth scene of the Fujita scroll, tells of an exchange of letters between Murasaki Shikibu and the Lady Koshosho. Writing her response at the time of a brisk shower in a hurry in order not to keep the messenger waiting as the \"sky looked threatening\", Murasaki Shikibu adds the following poem to her letter:\n<poem>\nThere are pauses between the showers of the outer world,\nBut there is no time when my sleeves, wet with tears, are dry.\n</poem>\nAfter dark she receives the following reply from Lady Koshosho:\n<poem>\nThe dark sky dulls my dreamy mind,\nThe down-dripping rain lingers–\nO my tears down falling, longing after thee!\n</poem>\n\nChanging topic, Murasaki Shikibu mentions shortly that at the same day, Michinaga inspected two new boats, one with a dragon's head the other with a phoenix head at the prow, reminding her of animated living figures. The painting located in the emaki after the fifth text section, at the end of the extant Fujita scroll and originally before the sixth scene, illustrates this inspection of boats. Penelope Mason sees this diverse composition as a nostalgic representation of the 13th century Imperial Court past its golden age, as despite of the \"gaiety and splendor the scene is permeated with fleeting nature of joy and pleasure.\"\n\nIn 1920 Morikawa Kanichirō (森川勘一郎, 1887–1980) from Nagoya discovered a 5-segment scroll of the \"Murasaki Shikibu Diary Emaki\" consisting of alternatingly five illustrations and five captions. Formerly in possession of the Matsudaira clan, rulers of the Saijō Domain in Iyo Province, this scroll is referred to as \"Matsudaira clan edition\" or after its finder as \"Former Morikawa edition\" (not to be confused with the Morikawa edition below which refers to the Morikawa family). Two years after discovery Morikawa sold the scroll to the Niigata businessman and master of the tea ceremony, Masuda Donō (益田鈍翁, 1847－1938, who had it cut into parts. One part (Morikawa edition), the fifth segment, is bequeathed to the Morikawa family and today in a private collection. A year later, in 1933, Donō detached the third segment and reformatted it as a hanging scroll (now in possession of the Agency for Cultural Affairs). The remaining three scenes (numbers 1, 2, 4) were framed in 1934, changed owner once more, eventually (via the Takanashi family) ending up in the collection of the Gotoh Museum. They are known collectively as \"Gotoh edition\". Today's Matsudaira scroll is spread over three locations and includes one National Treasure and two Important Cultural Properties.\nWhile this scroll has not survived in one piece, a 20th-century reproduction measures in at long. With the exception of the first scene of the Gotoh edition, the Matsudaira clan scroll depicts events on Kankō 5, 11th month, 1st day (December 1, 1008), the day of the \"ika-no-iwai\", the 50th day of birth celebration of Atsuhira-shinnō, the later Emperor Go-Ichijō.\n\nThe Gotoh edition corresponds to scenes 1, 2 and 4 of the Matsudaira clan scroll and had been partitioned off from the scroll in 1932 and 1933 by Masuda Donō. It consists of 3 paintings and 3 associated captions each framed individually (six items in total). This set has been designated as National Treasure on June 28, 1956 and is located at the Gotoh Museum.\n\nThe scene dated to Kankō 5, 10th month, 17th day (November 17, 1008), shows two drunk courtiers trying to gain entrance to Murasaki Shikibu quarters after she had enjoyed the garden outside her apartment. In the illustration, Murasaki holds her window shut against the men. First to arrive at the scene is the palace steward Sangi (on right) who opens the upper part of Murasaki's lattice door and inquires whether anybody is at home. According to Murasaki Shikibu his intention is to be mentioned to Akiko. Sanenari is joined by the consort's steward (associated with Akiko), Sangi who also calls out: \"Is anyone here?\" Murasaki replies faintly, avoiding anything that could be regarded as flirting. Together the two courtiers are requesting her to open the lower part of the door. Such behaviour, somebody of higher rank trying to enter the house of somebody of lower rank, was in the Heian period considered disgraceful and only excused by the young age of the two courtiers.\n\nIn the top right corner, Murasaki's friend, the maid Saishō no Kimi, is visible. The large garden occupying the left half of the painting and the diagonally positioned building are considered to be a bold scene arrangement. According to Penelope Mason, this is \"one of the saddest and most beautiful [scenes] in the scroll\", contrasting the beauty of the moonlit garden and pond on the left with the constraints of court life. The lattice window and the stewards separate Murasaki Shikibu from the outside world, keeping her a prisoner in the room.\n\nAs with all but the first scene of the Matsudaira scroll, this scene is set on the evening of Kankō 5, 11th month, 1st day (December 1, 1008), the day of the Ika-no-iwai of the Imperial Prince Atsuhira-shinnō, the later Emperor Go-Ichijō. The painting shows a room inside a shinden partitioned off by kichō room dividers featuring the design of decaying trees. Empress Shōshi, with the baby in her arms, is partially visible at the top. Court ladies are serving various types of ritual food.\n\nThe third scene held by the Gotoh museum was originally the fourth segment of the Matsudaira clan scroll. It is therefore preceded by the segment held by the Agency for Cultural Affairs and followed by the 5th segment of the Matsudaira clan scroll which is in possession of the Morikawa family. Like those segments, this scene is dated to the evening of the Ika-no-iwai celebration of Atsuhira-shinnō. It shows drunk and disordered court nobles amusing themselves with court ladies. This painting is particularly notable for its lifelike depiction of facial expressions and shapes of each figure in the scene.\n\nThis item, consisting of one painting and associated caption/text, was originally the third scene of the Matsudaira clan scroll before being reshaped into a hanging scroll by Masuda Donō in 1933. At some point it was in possession of the Ōkura clan　(大倉家), but it is now owned by the Agency for Cultural Affairs and in custody of the Tokyo National Museum. It was designated an Important Cultural Property on March 31, 1953. Like its preceding and successive scenes (scenes 2 and 3 from the Gotoh edition), the painting depicts the celebration for the 50th day of the birth of the Imperial Prince Atsuhira-shinnō, the later Emperor Go-Ichijō in the evening of Kankō 5, 11th month, 1st day (December 1, 1008). The main characters are in full dress in a room decorated with kichō partitioners and the prince's grandfather, Fujiwara no Michinaga at the bottom is offering rice cake (mochi) to the prince in a form of ceremonial ritual. The female servant at the bottom right is presumably the author of the diary Murasaki Shikibu.\n\nThe 5th segment of the five-segment Matsudaira clan scroll was separated in 1932 and mounted as hanging scroll. This fragment is wide. Named after their present owners, it is known as the Morikawa clan edition. It consists of a single scene with a very short illustration showing the inside of a traditional Japanese style room with fusuma sliding doors, tatami and a curtain. Like all but the first segment of this scroll, the scene is set in the evening of Kankō 5, 11th month, 1st day (December 1, 1008) on occasion of the 50th day celebration of the birth of Atsuhira-shinnō, the later Emperor Go-Ichijō. Murasaki Shikibu and Saishō no Kimi had been hiding from the drunken carousal of that evening, but were discovered by Michinaga, Saishō no Chūjō and others. The painting is dominated by the massive figure of Fujiwara no Michinaga dressed in brocade jacket and trousers and placed in the centre of the room. Murasaki Shikibu and Saishō no Kimi are huddled near the border of the painting with heads bent down as a sign of submission and deference. On discovering the two court ladies in hiding, Michinaga demands a poem from each of them. Murasaki being frightened and helpless in this situation recites the following waka:\n\nDespite being drunk, Michinaga answered quickly with another poem:\n\nwhich according to Murasaki's diary \"came from his innermost desire\". Based on the topic, this scene resembles the Azumaya edition of the Genji emaki where another court noble demands a response from a woman.　This part of the scroll was designated Important Cultural Property on July 19, 1952.\n\nFormerly in possession of the Hisamatsu-Matsudaira clan, a branch of the Matsudaira clan and rulers of the Iyo-Matsuyama Domain, this scroll is now privately owned by the Hinohara family (日野原家). Due to this ancestral heritage it is variously referred to as \"former Hisamatsu scroll\" or \"Hinohara scroll\". The scroll is long and consists of alternatingly six sections of text and six associated paintings on 13 sheets of paper. The fourth text part is relatively long and has been split in two. The scroll has been designated as an Important Cultural Property of Japan.\n\nMurasaki Shikibu tells of an anecdote at the festival of the Kamo Shrine held on Kankō 5, 11th month, 28th day (December 28, 1008), the last . On this day, Fujiwara no Norimichi, son of Michinaga, had the role of the Emperor's substitute. After a night of merriment, a joke is played on the Naidaijin by making him believe that a present he had received is directly from the Empress; thus requiring an open return. Murasaki Shikibu goes on to describe how noble and dignified Norimichi looked on that day and how his nurse was overwhelmed by his appearance. In a sacred dance performed at night, the mediocre performance of one dancer who had been \"very handsome last year\" reminded Murasaki Shikibu \"of the fleeting life of us all\". The illustration associated with this scene shows the Imperial Messenger, Fujiwara no Norimichi, his head decorated with wisteria branches on the top of a staircase of a shrine building. The train of his garment is flowing down the staircase and he is watched by three courtiers positioned near the bottom of the stairs.\n\nSet on the evening of Kankō 5, 12th month, 29th day (January 27, 1009), in this scene, Murasaki Shikibu returns to the Imperial Court after a visit to her parents' home. As it is the anniversary of her coming to the court she is looking back at her former life nostalgically. Feeling lonely she goes to sleep murmuring the following waka:\n\nThe painting following this text section shows a man on the stairs of a house and two men on a boat just outside the house. The illustration matching the scene described in the text is now the fifth painting of the Hachisuka scroll.\n\nThis scene from an unknown day in the year Kankō 6 (1009) shows Murasaki asleep at night in a room close to the corridor; a man is knocking on the door. Afraid to open, she spends the night without making a sound. The next morning her nightly visitor reveals himself as Michinaga through a poem he sent to her. She replies with the lines:\n\nScenes four to six describe the 50th day celebration of the birth of Atsunaga-shinnō, the later Emperor Go-Suzaku, on Kankō 7, 1st month, 15th day (February 1, 1010). The lengthy fourth section of text is split into two parts. Murasaki Shikibu briefly mentions her friendly relationship with Lady Kokosho and that they join their rooms separating them by \"kichō\" partitions only when both are at home. This behaviour made Michinaga believe that they are gossiping about other people. Murasaki Shikibu then describes the day's festivities: the Queen and her audience, the clothing, names and titles of the participants which included the Emperor, the infant prince and various court ladies. Dazzled in their presence, she escapes to an inner room. As the nurse, Madam Nakadaka comes away from the Emperor and Queen under the canopy, carrying the prince in her arms, Murasaki Shikibu praises her dignified demeanour, tranquility and earnestness. The painting associated with this scene shows four courtiers on the balcony (\"engawa\") of a Japanese style building outside fabric enclosed rooms, which are not visible. Two of the men are shown walking, the others are kneeling and appear to be talking to a person inside the building or to be handing something to someone inside. Two of the men (one standing, one walking) carry trays with cups.\nIn the subsequent scene, the dais at which the main persons are seated, covered by \"misu\", is opened and Murasaki Shikibu notes that the people present at the event and seated around the dais on the balcony were either of high rank or court ladies. Lower rank officials later joined them on the steps below where the royalty is seated to perform music with a lute (\"biwa\"), harp (\"koto\") and flute (\"shō\"). The painting corresponding to this scene shows two ladies on the balcony with rolled up misu. Both are squeezed in the corner of the image and appear to be talking to each other.\nA short text section follows, which is the final scene of the scroll and the final part of the known diary. The official musicians mentioned in the previous scene are joined by outsiders, one of which \"made a mistake in the notes and was hissed\". The Minister of the Right made a great mistake in praising the six-stringed koto. The emaki text (and diary) ends abruptly with mention of Michinaga's gift of flutes in two boxes. The illustration to this scene shows three courtiers seated in a row on the balcony with their backs facing the outside. The left figure is shown with a Japanese harp (\"koto\") in front of him, his head is turned toward the other two who appear to be concentrating on something in front of them (likely instruments).\n\nList of National Treasures of Japan (paintings)\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8377018", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8377018", "title": "New home sales", "text": "New home sales\n\nNew home sales is an which records sales of newly constructed residences in the United States of America. \nThe United States Census Bureau publishes new home sales statistics monthly on their website. Statistics are reported as unadjusted monthly rates and seasonally adjusted annual rates.\n\nBecause new home sales trigger consumption, they have significant market impact upon release. New home sales also serve as a good indicator of economic turning points due to its consumer income sensitivity. Generally, when economic conditions slow down, new home sales serves as an early indicator of such a depression.\n\nSeveral cautions apply when interpreting new home sales statistics:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28701627", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28701627", "title": "Newport (Ymerodraeth State of Mind)", "text": "Newport (Ymerodraeth State of Mind)\n\nThe music video \"Newport (Ymerodraeth State of Mind)\" is a parody of the Jay-Z and Alicia Keys song \"Empire State of Mind,\" replacing references to the \"Empire State\" of New York with references to the city of Newport in South Wales. The word \"ymerodraeth\" means \"empire\" in Welsh.\n\nThe video was directed by the London-based filmmaker M-J Delaney, and featured London-based actors Alex Warren and Terema Wainwright, rapping and singing respectively. The lyrics were written by Tom Williams, Leo Sloley and M-J Delaney.\n\nPublished on the web on 20 July 2010, the video went viral and was featured by BBC News. By the middle of August 2010, nearly 2.5 million people had watched it on YouTube. YouTube removed the video on 10 August due to a copyright claim by music publishers EMI Music Publishing.\n\nThe lack of a fair dealing exclusion for parody works, exercised by EMI in their takedown notice, was cited in the Hargreaves Review on Copyright, commissioned by the Newport-based Intellectual Property Office. The review evolved into the Copyright (Public Administration) Regulations 2014.\n\nThe song includes references to Welsh celebrities such as Shirley Bassey, Craig Bellamy and Gavin Henson, and to Welsh stereotypes such as Welsh rarebit and leeks, along with Newport references such as Newport Gwent Dragons and the A4042 road. Warren and Wainwright were greeted with applause when they performed the song in Newport at the 2010 Newport Cityfest.\n\nJosie d'Arby is name-checked with the explanation: \"Yes, it's strange, we didn't know either - Thankyou Wikipedia!\"\n\nNewport-based rap group Goldie Lookin Chain released a \"parody of a parody\" video in response titled \"You're Not From Newport\", alleging that their rivals lacked local knowledge.\n\nThe song was the inspiration for actor Russell Gomer's parody \"Ain't Seen Ruthin Yet\", based on the song You Ain't Seen Nothing Yet by Bachman–Turner Overdrive and the town of Ruthin in Denbighshire.\n\nComic Relief 2011 included a new parody video directed by MJ Delaney featuring Welsh celebrities lip-synching to the song, including Josie d'Arby and Steve Jones who were namechecked in the original parody. It is available to download via iTunes. Other cast members were Paul Whitehouse, Siân Lloyd, Connie Fisher, John Humphrys, Gethin Jones, Helen Lederer, Robbie Savage, Anneka Rice, Ruth Madoc, Tim Vincent, Howard Marks, Gareth Jones, Lisa Rogers, Helen Adams, Max Boyce, Joe Calzaghe, Dirty Sanchez, Wynne Evans, Goldie Lookin Chain, Colin Jackson, Grant Nicholas, Shakin' Stevens, Michael Sheen, Imogen Thomas, Bonnie Tyler, Alex Jones and Ian Woosnam.\n"}
{"id": "22208839", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22208839", "title": "Peter Lewis Allen", "text": "Peter Lewis Allen\n\nPeter Lewis Allen (born 1957) is a scholar, author, educator, and executive. He earned a B.A. in classics and English from Haverford College, a Ph.D. in comparative literature from the University of Chicago and an M.B.A. from the Wharton School.\n\nAllen has taught literature at Princeton University, USC, and Pomona College. His major research concerns include culture, history, and sexuality. Allen continues to enhance the scholarship concerning AIDS and the LGBT community.\n\nAmong Allen’s publications is the book, \"The Wages of Sin: Sex and Disease, Past and Present\". In 2007, Allen donated his collection of safe sex pamphlets to the Fales Library at NYU. This collection contains material relating to sexual health issues from 1974-2007.\n\nPeter Allen moved from academia into the business world when he graduated from Wharton in 2000. He worked at McKinsey & Company in New York from 2000 to 2007, when he moved to San Francisco to become the Director of Google University (Google, Inc.). In 2010, Allen moved to Singapore. He was vice president for People and Organization Development at agoda.com (http://www.agoda.com/), the Asia-based subsidiary of the Priceline Group (http://ir.priceline.com/), and now serves as managing director for Agoda's external relations department, Agoda Outside. \n"}
{"id": "1000117", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1000117", "title": "Phono-semantic matching", "text": "Phono-semantic matching\n\nPhono-semantic matching (PSM) is the incorporation of a word into one language from another, often creating a neologism, where the word's non-native quality is hidden by replacing it with phonetically and semantically similar words or roots from the adopting language. Thus, the approximate sound and meaning of the original expression in the source language are preserved, though the new expression (the PSM) in the target language may sound native.\n\nPhono-semantic matching is distinct from calquing, which includes (semantic) translation but does not include phonetic matching (i.e. retaining the approximate sound of the borrowed word through matching it with a similar-sounding pre-existent word or morpheme in the target language). At the same time, phono-semantic matching is also distinct from homophonic translation, which retains the sound of a word but not the meaning.\n\nThe term \"phono-semantic matching\" was introduced by linguist and revivalist Ghil'ad Zuckermann. It challenged Einar Haugen's classic typology of lexical borrowing (loanwords). While Haugen categorized borrowing into either substitution or importation, camouflaged borrowing in the form of PSM is a case of \"simultaneous substitution and importation.\" Zuckermann proposed a new classification of multisourced neologisms, words deriving from two or more sources at the same time. Examples of such mechanisms are phonetic matching, semanticized phonetic matching and phono-semantic matching.\n\nZuckermann concludes that language planners, for example members of the Academy of the Hebrew Language, employ the very same techniques used in folk etymology by laymen, as well as by religious leaders. He urges lexicographers and etymologists to recognize the widespread phenomena of camouflaged borrowing and multisourced neologization and not to force one source on multi-parental lexical items.\n\nOften in phono-semantic matching, the source-language determines both the root word and the noun-pattern. This makes it difficult to determine the source language's influence on the target-language morphology. For example, \"the phono-semantic matcher of English \"dock\" with Israeli Hebrew מבדוק \"mivdók\" could have used after deliberately choosing the phonetically and semantically suitable root \"\" meaning 'check' (Rabbinic) or 'repair' (Biblical) the noun-patterns \"mi⌂⌂a⌂á\", \"ma⌂⌂e⌂á\", \"mi⌂⌂é⌂et\", \"mi⌂⌂a⌂áim\" etc. (each ⌂ represents a slot where a radical is inserted). Instead, \"mi⌂⌂ó⌂\", which was not highly productive, was chosen because its [o] makes the final syllable of מבדוק \"mivdók\" sound like English \"dock\".\"\n\nPSM is frequently used in Mandarin borrowings.\n\nAn example is the Taiwanese Mandarin word 威而剛 wēiérgāng (weiergang), which literally means \"powerful and hard\" and refers to Viagra, the drug for treating impotence in men, manufactured by Pfizer.\n\nAnother example is the Mandarin form of World Wide Web, which is \"wàn wéi wǎng\" (), which satisfies \"www\" and literally means “myriad dimensional net”. The English word \"hacker\" has been borrowed into Mandarin as (\"hēikè\", \"wicked visitor\").\n\n\"Modern Standard Chinese \"shēngnà\" \"sonar\", which uses the characters 声 \"shēng\" \"sound\" and 纳 \"nà\" \"receive, accept\". 声 \"shēng\" is a phonetically imperfect rendering of the English initial syllable (although \"peng\", for instance, would have been much worse). Chinese has a large number of homo/heterotonal homophonous morphemes, which would have been much better phonetically (but not nearly as good semantically) consider the syllable ' (cf. 送 \"sòng\" ‘deliver, carry, give (as a present)’, 松 \"sōng\" ‘pine; loose, slack’, 耸 \"sǒng\" ‘tower; alarm, attract’ etc.), ' (cf. 搜 \"sōu\" ‘search’, 叟 \"sŏu\" ‘old man’, 馊 \"sōu\" ‘sour, spoiled’ and many others) or \"\" (cf. 收 \"shōu\" ‘receive, accept’, 受 \"shòu\" ‘receive, accept’, 手 \"shǒu\" ‘hand’, 首 \"shǒu\" ‘head’, 兽 \"shòu\" ‘beast’, 瘦 \"shòu\" ‘thin’ and so forth).\"\n\nAccording to Zuckermann, PSM in Mandarin is common in:\n\n\nFrom a monolingual Chinese view, Mandarin PSM is the ‘lesser evil’ compared with Latin script (in digraphic writing) or code switching (in speech). Zuckermann’s exploration of PSM in Standard Chinese and Meiji-period Japanese concludes that the Chinese writing system is multifunctional: pleremic (\"full\" of meaning, e.g. logographic), cenemic (\"empty\" of meaning, e.g. phonographic - like a syllabary) and simultaneously cenemic and pleremic (phono-logographic). Zuckermann argues that Leonard Bloomfield’s assertion that \"a language is the same no matter what system of writing may be used\" is inaccurate. “If Chinese had been written using roman letters, thousands of Chinese words would not have been coined, or would have been coined with completely different forms”.\n\nIn modern Japanese, loan words are generally represented phonetically via katakana. However, previously loan words were often represented by Chinese characters, a process called \"ateji\" (when used for sound, or \"jukujikun,\" when used for meaning), and some of these continue to be used. The characters chosen may correspond to the sound, the meaning, or both.\n\nIn many cases the characters used were used only for sound or only for meaning. For example, in the word (sushi), the two characters are respectively read as \"su\" and \"shi\", but the character means \"one's natural life span\" and means \"to administer\", neither of which has anything to do with the food this is \"ateji\". Conversely, in the word (\"tabako\") for \"tobacco\", the individual kanji respectively mean \"smoke\" and \"herb\", which corresponds to the meaning, but they have no phonetic relationship to the word \"tabako\" this is \"jukujikun\".\n\nIn some cases, however, the kanji are sometimes chosen for both their semantic and phonetic values, a form of phono-semantic matching. A stock example is (\"kurabu\") for \"club\", where the characters can be interpreted loosely in sequence as \"together\", \"fun\" and \"place\". Another example is (\"kappa\") for the Portuguese \"capa\", a kind of raincoat. The characters can mean \"wings coming together\", as the pointed \"capa\" resembles a bird with wings folded together.\n\nSapir and Zuckermann (2008) demonstrate how Icelandic camouflages many English words by means of phono-semantic matching. For example, the Icelandic-looking word \"eyðni\", meaning \"AIDS\", is a PSM of the English acronym \"AIDS\", using the pre-existent Icelandic verb \"eyða\", meaning \"to destroy\", and the Icelandic nominal suffix \"-ni\". Similarly, the Icelandic word \"tækni\", meaning \"technology, technique\", derives from \"tæki\", meaning \"tool\", combined with the nominal suffix \"-ni\", but is, in fact, a PSM of the Danish (or international) \"teknik\", meaning \"technology, technique\". This neologism was coined in 1912 by Dr Björn Bjarnarson from Viðfjörður in the East of Iceland. It had been in little use until the 1940s, but has ever since become highly common, as a lexeme and as an element in new formations, such as \"raftækni\", lit. \"electrical technics\", i.e. \"electronics\", \"tæknilegur\" \"technical\" and \"tæknir\" \"technician\". Other PSMs discussed in the article are \"beygla\", \"bifra\" \"bifrari\", \"brokkál\", \"dapur\" \"dapurleiki\" - \"depurð\", \"fjárfesta\" - \"fjárfesting\", \"heila\", \"guðspjall\", \"ímynd\", \"júgurð\", \"korréttur\", \"Létt og laggott\", \"musl\", \"pallborð\" \"pallborðsumræður\", \"páfagaukur\", \"ratsjá\", \"setur\", \"staða\", \"staðall\" \"staðla\" \"stöðlun\", \"toga\" \"togari\", \"uppi\" and \"veira\".\n\nPerhaps the most famous Turkish PSM is the one whose current form is \"okul\" 'school'. It was created to replace Ottoman Turkish \"mektep\", an old loanword from Arabic. Turkish \"okul\" was obviously based on French \"\" 'school' and might have been influenced by Latin \"schola\" 'school' (cf. the original Turkish coinage \"okula(ğ)\"). On the other hand, the autochthonous co-etymon of \"okul\" is Turkish \"oku-\" '(to) read', cf. \"okumak\" 'to read, study', \"okuma\" 'reading', \"okur\" 'reader'. Note the semantic affinity with Arabic كتب \"kataba\" 'wrote (masculine, singular)', the ultimate origin of Ottoman Turkish \"mektep\". However, synchronically, Turkish \"okul\" cannot be regarded as \"öztürkçe\" (pure Turkish) since the final \"-l\" is not a Turkish suffix and was imported ad hoc from French. One might claim that the \"-l\" is the result of analogy to Turkish words ending in \"-l\", e.g. \"kızıl\" 'red', 'ruddy', from \"kızmak\" 'to get angry/hot'. There was also a suggestion that the suffix is in fact the Turkic \"-ul\". However, adding the suffix \"-ul\" to \"oku\" would have yielded \"*okuyul\" (cf. Lewis 1999: 118). Diachronically, however, the original form of \"okul\" was allegedly \"okula\", in which \"-la\" might be explained by analogy to (Ottoman) Turkish \"kışla\" 'barracks', 'winter quarters' (cf. \"kış\" \"winter\") and \"yayla\" 'summer pasture' (cf. \"yaz\" 'summer'), although these two are not verb-based (ibid.: 117). Refet, the Deputy for the city of Urfa, falsely suggested that \"okula\" already existed in the Urfa dialect (ibid.: 118, cf. Heyd 1954: 91). Indeed, purists are likely to apply the method of revitalizing and standardizing dialectal words. However, in the case of \"okul\", such an explanation seems to be no more than a folk etymology. Turkish \"okul\" constitutes a successful creational PSM. As Lewis (1982: vi, reprint of 1953) puts it: \n\nIn the vegetable name Jerusalem artichoke the first word part was altered to match \"Jerusalem\" exactly, although it actually derives from Italian \"girasole\" 'sunflower'.\n\nA few PSMs exist in English, based on French loanwords; the mispronunciation of ' as \"chase-\"lounge\"\" is a familiar example. The French word ', itself an adaptation of the Choctaw name for the bowfin, has likewise been Anglicized as \"shoepike\", although it is unrelated to the pikes. The French name for the Osage orange, \"\" ( \"bow-wood\"), is sometimes rendered as \"bowdark\".\n\nA number of PSMs exist in Dutch as well. One notable example is \"hangmat\" (\"hammock\"), which is a modification of Spanish \"hamaca\", also the source of the English word. Natively, the word is transparently analysed as a \"hang-mat\", which aptly describes the object. Similarly:\n\nMailhammer (2008) \"applies the concepts of multisourced neologisation and, more generally, camouflaged borrowing, as established by Zuckermann (2003) to Modern German, pursuing a twofold aim, namely to underline the significance of multisourced neologisation for language contact theory and secondly to demonstrate that together with other forms of camouflaged borrowing it remains an important borrowing mechanism in contemporary German.\"\n\nZuckermann (2009) analyses the evolution of the word \"artichoke\". Beginning in Arabic (\"\") \"the artichoke\", it was adapted into Spanish Arabic \"alxarshofa\", then Old Spanish \"alcarchofa\", then Italian \"alcarcioffo\", North Italian \"arcicioffo\" > \"arciciocco\" > \"articiocco\", then as the internationalism phonetically realized in English as \"artichoke\". The word was eventually \"phono-semantically matched\" back into colloquial Levantine Arabic (for example in Syria, Lebanon and Israel) as \"arḍī shōkī\", consisting of \"arḍī\" \"earthly\" and \"shawkī\" \"thorny\".\n\nArabic has made use of phono-semantic matching to replace blatantly imported new terminology with a word derived from an existing triliteral root. Examples are:\n\"Viagra\", a brand name which was suggested by Interbrand Wood (the consultancy firm hired by Pfizer), is itself a multisourced neologism, based on Sanskrit \"\" (\"tiger\") but enhanced by the words \"vigour\" (i.e. strength) and \"Niagara\" (i.e. free/forceful flow).\n\nAccording to Zuckermann, PSM has various advantages from the point of view of the puristic language planner:\n\n\nOther motivations for PSM include the following:\n\n\nAn expressive loan is a loanword incorporated into the expressive system of the borrowing language, making it resemble native words or onomatopoeia. Expressive loanwords are hard to identify, and by definition, they follow the common phonetic sound change patterns poorly. Likewise, there is a continuum between \"pure\" loanwords and \"expressive\" loanwords. The difference to a folk etymology is that a folk etymology or eggcorn is based on misunderstanding, whereas an expressive loan is changed on purpose, the speaker taking the loanword knowing full well that the descriptive quality is different from the original sound and meaning.\n\nSouth-eastern Finnish, for example, has many expressive loans. The main source language, Russian, does not use the front rounded vowels 'y', 'ä' or 'ö' [y æ ø]. Thus, it is common to add these to redescriptivized loans to remove the degree of foreignness that the loanword would otherwise have. For example, \"tytinä\" \"brawn\" means \"wobblyness\", and superficially it looks like a native construction, originating from the verb \"tutista\" \"to wobble\" added with a front vowel sound in the vowel harmony. However, it is expressivized from \"tyyteni\" (which is a confusing word as \"-ni\" is a possessive suffix), which in turn is a loanword from Russian \"stúden' \". A somewhat more obvious example is \"tökötti\" \"sticky, tarry goo\", which could be mistaken as a derivation from the onomatopoetic word \"tök\" (cf. the verb \"tökkiä\" \"to poke\"). However, it is an expressive loan of Russian \"d'ogot' \" \"tar\".\n\n"}
{"id": "44115663", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44115663", "title": "Reduced level", "text": "Reduced level\n\nReduced Level in surveying refers to equating elevations of survey points with reference to a common assumed datum. It is a vertical distance between survey point and adopted datum plane. Thus it is considered as the base elevation which is used as reference to reckon heights or depths of other important places. Reduced here means equating and Level means Elevations. Datum may be real or imaginary location with a nominated elevation of straight zero.\n\nThe most common and convenient datum which is internationally accepted is mean sea level. Countries take their nearby sea levels as datum planes for calculations of Reduced levels . For example, Pakistan takes sea near Karachi as its datum while India takes sea near Mumbai as its datum for calculation of Reduced levels of different places in their respective countries. The term Reduced Level is denoted shortly by ‘RL’. National survey departments of each country determines RL’s of significantly important locations or points. These points are called as \"permanent benchmarks\" and this survey process is known as Great Trigonometrical Surveying (GTS). The permanent bench marks act as reference points for determining RL’s of other locations in a particular country.\n\nThe instruments used to determine reduced level include:-\nand Coke’s reversible level. Anyone of these can be used at a time for the purpose.\n\nRL of a survey point can be determined by two methods:-\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16744543", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16744543", "title": "Reza Afshari", "text": "Reza Afshari\n\nReza Afshari is professor of history at Pace University. He received his Ph.D. at Temple University. His studies center on human rights in Iran, Islamic politics, and Islamic cultural relativism in particular.\n\n\nMiddle East Studies Association of America, Committee for Academic Freedom in the Middle East and North Africa\n\n"}
{"id": "1936136", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1936136", "title": "Roman Ingarden", "text": "Roman Ingarden\n\nRoman Witold Ingarden (; February 5, 1893 – June 14, 1970) was a Polish philosopher who worked in phenomenology, ontology and aesthetics.\n\nBefore World War II, Ingarden published his works mainly in the German language. During the war, he switched to Polish, and as a result his major works in ontology went largely unnoticed by the wider world philosophical community.\n\nIngarden was born in Kraków, Austria-Hungary, on February 5, 1893. He first studied mathematics and philosophy at the Lwów University under Kazimierz Twardowski, then moved to Göttingen to study philosophy under Edmund Husserl. He was considered by Husserl to be one of his best students and accompanied Husserl to the University of Freiburg, where in 1918 Ingarden submitted his doctoral dissertation with Husserl as director. The title of his thesis was \"Intuition und Intellekt bei Henri Bergson\" (\"Intuition and Intellect in Henri Bergson\").\n\nIngarden then returned to Poland, where he spent his academic career after obtaining his doctorate. For a long period he had to support himself by secondary-school teaching. In 1925 he submitted his \"Habilitationschrift\", \"Essentiale Fragen\" (\"Essential Questions\"), to Kazimierz Twardowski at Lwów University. This thesis was noticed by the English-speaking philosophical community. In 1933 the University promoted him to professor. He became well known for his work on \"The Literary Work of Art\" (\"Das literarische Kunstwerk. Eine Untersuchung aus dem Grenzgebiet der Ontologie, Logik und Literaturwissenschaft\", 1931).\n\nFrom 1939 to 1941 during the Soviet occupation of Lwów he continued his university activity. After the Operation Barbarossa 1941 under the German occupation Ingarden secretly taught students mathematics and philosophy. After his house was bombed, he continued work on his book, \"The Controversy over the Existence of the World\".\n\nIngarden became a professor at Nicolaus Copernicus University in Toruń in 1945 shortly after the war, but was banned in 1946 because of the Communist government. He then moved to the Jagiellonian University in Kraków, where he was offered a position. In 1949, however, he was banned from teaching due to his alleged idealism, supposedly being an \"enemy of materialism\". In 1957 he was reappointed at the Jagiellonian University after the ban was lifted, and so he went on to teach, write and publish. Ingarden died on June 14, 1970 as a result of a cerebral hemorrhage.\n\nIngarden was a realist phenomenologist, and thus did not accept Husserl's transcendental idealism. His training was phenomenological; nonetheless, his work as a whole was directed towards ontology. That is why Ingarden is one of the most renowned phenomenological ontologists, as he strove to describe the ontological structure and state of being of various objects based on the essential features of any experience that could provide such knowledge.\n\nThe best known works of Ingarden, and the only ones widely known to English-speaking readers, concern aesthetics and literature. The exclusive focus on Ingarden's work in aesthetics does not reflect Ingarden's overall philosophical standpoint, which is focused on the ideas regarding formal, existential and material ontology set forth in his \"Controversy over the Existence of the World\".\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20262465", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20262465", "title": "Sabesdiker losn", "text": "Sabesdiker losn\n\nDer sabesdiker-losn (Yiddish: דער סאַבעסדיקער לאָסן) is a dialectal feature characteristic of the Northeastern dialect of the Yiddish language (NEY, \"Litvisher-vaysrusisher dialekt\", \"Tsofn-yidish\"), which is the replacement, or merger of the \"hushing\" consonants ch, sh, with the \"hissing\" ones, \"ts\", \"s\". The name of the term is a shibboleth: the phrase \"dos shabesdike loshn\" (in standard Yiddish) means \"Sabbath speech\", hinting at the perception that this feature is substandard. In addition to the shibboleth, the use of the masculine article \"der\" indicates NEY's tendency to use either the masculine or the feminine gender for nouns where Standard Yiddish uses the neuter.\n\nIt is similar to the dialectical feature of Polish language called \"mazurzenie,\" and there has been a hypothesis on the influence of \"mazurzenie\" on the development of \"sabesdiker losn\".\n"}
{"id": "26617693", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26617693", "title": "Sacrifice of the intellect", "text": "Sacrifice of the intellect\n\nThe sacrifice of the intellect (\"sacrificium intellectus\", sometimes rendered in Italian, \"sacrifizio dell'intelletto\") is a concept associated with Christian devotion, particularly with the Jesuit order. It was the \"third sacrifice\" demanded by the founder of the Jesuits, St. Ignatius Loyola, who required\n\nbesides entire outward submission to command, also the complete identification of the inferior's will with that of the superior . [Loyola] lays down that the superior is to be obeyed simply as such and as standing in the place of God, without reference to his personal wisdom, piety or discretion; that any obedience which falls short of making the superior's will one's own, in inward affection as well as in outward effect, is lax and imperfect; that going beyond the letter of command, even in things abstractly good and praise-worthy, is disobedience, and that the \"sacrifice of the intellect\" is the third and highest grade of obedience, well pleasing to God, when the inferior not only wills what the superior wills, but thinks what he thinks, submitting his judgment, so far as it is possible for the will to influence and lead the judgment.\n\nThe concept was taken up in a more individualistic sense by the Jansenist thinker Blaise Pascal, and particularly by the existentialist thinker Søren Kierkegaard, who thought that the act of faith requires a leap into the void, which amounts to a sacrifice of the intellect and reason. This was quintessentially expressed in the traditional dictum, \"credo quia absurdum\", \"I believe because it is absurd.\" This view of faith is rejected by the Catholic church, which regards reason as a path towards direct knowledge of God.\n\nThe phrase is often used in a pejorative sense in writings on the psychology and sociology of religion - e.g.:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3325503", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3325503", "title": "San Agustín, Huila", "text": "San Agustín, Huila\n\nSan Agustín () is a town and municipality in the southern Colombian Department of Huila. The town is located 227 km away from the capital of the Department, Neiva. Population is around 30,000. The village was founded in 1752 by Alejo Astudillo but attacks by indigenous people destroyed it. The present village was founded in 1790 by Lucas de Herazo and Mendigaña.\n\nThe mean temperature year round is 18 °C.\n\nThe area is very well known for its pre-Columbian archaeological sites, known as the San Agustín Archaeological Park, which generates significant revenue to the economy due to the high volume of tourists, both Colombian and foreigners. This site was declared a UNESCO World Heritage Site in 1995.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27643", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27643", "title": "Shanghai", "text": "Shanghai\n\nShanghai (; ; ) is one of the four municipalities under the direct administration of the central government of the People's Republic of China, the largest city in China by population, and the second most populous city proper in the world, with a population of more than 24 million . It is a global financial centre and transport hub, with the world's busiest container port. Located in the Yangtze River Delta, it sits on the south edge of the estuary of the Yangtze in the middle portion of the East China coast. The municipality borders the provinces of Jiangsu and Zhejiang to the north, south and west, and is bounded to the east by the East China Sea.\n\nAs a major administrative, shipping and trading city, Shanghai grew in importance in the 19th century due to trade and recognition of its favourable port location and economic potential. The city was one of five treaty ports forced open to foreign trade following the British victory over China in the First Opium War. The subsequent 1842 Treaty of Nanking and 1844 Treaty of Whampoa allowed the establishment of the Shanghai International Settlement and the French Concession. The city then flourished as a centre of commerce between China and other parts of the world (predominantly the Occident), and became the primary financial hub of the Asia-Pacific region in the 1930s. However, with the Communist Party takeover of the mainland in 1949, trade was limited to other socialist countries, and the city's global influence declined. In the 1990s, the economic reforms introduced by Deng Xiaoping resulted in an intense re-development of the city, aiding the return of finance and foreign investment to the city. It has since re-emerged as a hub for international trade and finance; it is the home of the Shanghai Stock Exchange, one of the world's largest by market capitalization.\n\nShanghai has been described as the \"showpiece\" of the booming economy of mainland China;\n\nThe two Chinese characters in the city's name are (\"shàng\"/\"zan\", \"upon\") and (\"hǎi\"/\"hae,\"\"sea\"), together meaning \"Upon-the-Sea\". The earliest occurrence of this name dates from the 11th-century Song dynasty, at which time there was already a river confluence and a town with this name in the area. There are disputes as to exactly how the name should be understood, but Chinese historians have concluded that during the Tang dynasty Shanghai was literally on the sea.\n\nShanghai is officially abbreviated (\"Hù/Wu\") in Chinese, a contraction of (\"Hù Dú/Vu Doh\", \"Harpoon Ditch\"), a 4th- or Jin name for the mouth of Suzhou Creek when it was the main conduit into the ocean. This character appears on all motor vehicle license plates issued in the municipality today.\n\nAnother alternative name for Shanghai is \"Shēn\" () or \"Shēnchéng\" (, \"Shen City\"), from Lord Chunshen, a third-century BC nobleman and prime minister of the state of Chu, whose fief included modern Shanghai. Sports teams and newspapers in Shanghai often use Shen in their names, such as Shanghai Shenhua F.C. and \"Shen Bao\".\n\n\"Huating\" () was another early name for Shanghai. In AD 751, during the mid-Tang dynasty, Huating County was established by the Governor of Wu Commandery Zhao Juzhen at modern-day Songjiang, the first county-level administration within modern-day Shanghai. Today, Huating appears as the name of a four-star hotel in the city.\n\nThe city also has various nicknames in English, including \"Pearl of the Orient\" and \"Paris of the East\".\n\nDuring the Spring and Autumn period (approximately 771 to 476 BC), the Shanghai area belonged to the Kingdom of Wu, which was conquered by the Kingdom of Yue, which in turn was conquered by the Kingdom of Chu. During the Warring States period (475 BC), Shanghai was part of the fief of Lord Chunshen of Chu, one of the Four Lords of the Warring States. He ordered the excavation of the Huangpu River. Its former or poetic name, the Chunshen River, gave Shanghai its nickname of \"Shen\". Fishermen living in the Shanghai area then created a fishing tool called the \"hu\", which lent its name to the outlet of Suzhou Creek north of the Old City and became a common nickname and abbreviation for the city.\n\nDuring the Tang and Song dynasties, Qinglong Town () in modern Qingpu District was a major trading port. Established in 746 (fifth year of the Tang Tianbao era), it developed into what contemporary sources called a \"giant town of the Southeast\", with thirteen temples and seven pagodas. The famous Song scholar and artist Mi Fu served as its mayor. The port had a thriving trade with provinces along the Yangtze River and the Chinese coast, as well as foreign countries such as Japan and Silla.\n\nBy the end of the Song dynasty, the center of trading had moved downstream of the Wusong River to Shanghai, which was upgraded in status from a village to a market town in 1074, and in 1172 a second sea wall was built to stabilize the ocean coastline, supplementing an earlier dike. From the Yuan dynasty in 1292 until Shanghai officially became a municipality in 1927, central Shanghai was administered as a county under Songjiang Prefecture, whose seat was at the present-day Songjiang District.\n\nTwo important events helped promote Shanghai's development in the Ming dynasty. A city wall was built for the first time in 1554 to protect the town from raids by Japanese pirates. It measured high and in circumference. During the Wanli reign (1573–1620), Shanghai received an important psychological boost from the erection of a City God Temple in 1602. This honour was usually reserved for prefectural capitals and not normally given to a mere county seat such as Shanghai. It probably reflected the town's economic importance, as opposed to its low political status.\n\nDuring the Qing dynasty, Shanghai became one of the most important sea ports in the Yangtze Delta region as a result of two important central government policy changes: In 1684, the Kangxi Emperor reversed the Ming dynasty prohibition on oceangoing vessels – a ban that had been in force since 1525; and in 1732 the Yongzheng Emperor moved the customs office for Jiangsu province (; see Customs House, Shanghai) from the prefectural capital of Songjiang to Shanghai, and gave Shanghai exclusive control over customs collections for Jiangsu's foreign trade. As a result of these two critical decisions, by 1735 Shanghai had become the major trade port for all of the lower Yangtze region, despite still being at the lowest administrative level in the political hierarchy.\n\nInternational attention to Shanghai grew in the 19th century due to European recognition of its economic and trade potential at the Yangtze. During the First Opium War (1839–1842), British forces occupied the city. The war ended with the 1842 Treaty of Nanking, which allowed the British to dictate opening the treaty ports, Shanghai included, for international trade. The Treaty of the Bogue signed in 1843, and the Sino-American Treaty of Wanghia signed in 1844 forced Chinese concession to European and American desires for visitation and trade on Chinese soil. Britain, France (under the 1844 Treaty of Whampoa), and the United States all carved out concessions outside the walled city of Shanghai, which was still ruled by the Chinese.\n\nThe Chinese-held old city of Shanghai fell to the rebels of the Small Swords Society in 1853 but was recovered by the Qing government in February 1855. In 1854, the Shanghai Municipal Council was created to manage the foreign settlements. Between 1860–1862, the Taiping rebels twice attacked Shanghai and destroyed the city's eastern and southern suburbs, but failed to take the city. In 1863, the British settlement to the south of Suzhou Creek (northern Huangpu District) and the American settlement to the north (southern Hongkou District) joined in order to form the Shanghai International Settlement. The French opted out of the Shanghai Municipal Council and maintained its own concession to the south and southwest.\n\nCitizens of many countries and all continents came to Shanghai to live and work during the ensuing decades; those who stayed for long periods – some for generations – called themselves \"Shanghailanders\". In the 1920s and 1930s, almost 20,000 White Russians and Russian Jews fled the newly established Soviet Union and took up residence in Shanghai. These Shanghai Russians constituted the second-largest foreign community. By 1932, Shanghai had become the world's fifth largest city and home to 70,000 foreigners. In the 1930s, some 30,000 Jewish refugees from Europe arrived in the city.\n\nThe Sino-Japanese War concluded with the Treaty of Shimonoseki, which elevated Japan to become another foreign power in Shanghai. Japan built the first factories in Shanghai, which were soon copied by other foreign powers. Shanghai was then the most important financial center in the Far East. All this international activity gave Shanghai the nickname \"the Great Athens of China\".\n\nUnder the Republic of China, Shanghai's political status was raised to that of a municipality on 14 July 1927. Although the territory of the foreign concessions was excluded from their control, this new Chinese municipality still covered an area of , including the modern-day districts of Baoshan, Yangpu, Zhabei, Nanshi, and Pudong. Headed by a Chinese mayor and municipal council, the new city government's first task was to create a new city center in Jiangwan town of Yangpu district, outside the boundaries of the foreign concessions. The \"Greater Shanghai Plan\" included a public museum, library, sports stadium, and city hall, which were partially constructed when the plan was interrupted by the Japanese invasion.\n\nOn 28 January 1932, Japanese forces invaded Shanghai and the Chinese resisted, fighting to a standstill; a ceasefire was brokered in May. The Battle of Shanghai in 1937 resulted in the occupation of the Chinese administered parts of Shanghai outside of the International Settlement and the French Concession. The foreign concessions were ultimately occupied by the Japanese on 8 December 1941 and remained occupied until Japan's surrender in 1945, during which time many war crimes were committed.\n\nOn 27 May 1949, the People's Liberation Army took control of Shanghai. Under the new People's Republic of China (PRC), Shanghai was one of only three municipalities not merged into neighboring provinces over the next decade (the others being Beijing and Tianjin). Shanghai underwent a series of changes in the boundaries of its subdivisions over the next decade. After 1949, most foreign firms moved their offices from Shanghai to Hong Kong, as part of a foreign divestment due to the Communist victory.\n\nOn 17 January 1958, Jiading, Baoshan, and Shanghai County in Jiangsu Province became part of Shanghai Municipality, which expanded to 86,300 hectares. The following December, the land area of Shanghai was further expanded to 591,000 hectares when more surrounding suburban areas in Jiangsu were added: Chongming, Jinshan, Qingpu, Fengxian, Chuansha and Nanhui. In 1960 the urban districts were reduced to 10.\n\nDuring the 1950s and 1960s, Shanghai became the center for radical leftism since it was the industrial centre of China with most skilled industrial workers. The radical leftist Jiang Qing and her three allies, together the Gang of Four, were based in the city. Yet, even during the most tumultuous times of the Cultural Revolution, Shanghai was able to maintain high economic productivity and relative social stability. During most of the history of the PRC, Shanghai has been a comparatively heavy contributor of tax revenue to the central government, with Shanghai in 1983 contributing more in tax revenue to the central government than Shanghai had received in investment in the prior 33 years combined. This came at the cost of severely crippling welfare of Shanghainese people and Shanghai's infrastructural and capital development. Its importance to the fiscal well-being of the central government also denied it economic liberalizations begun in 1978. Shanghai was finally permitted to initiate economic reforms in 1991, starting the massive development still seen today and the birth of Lujiazui in Pudong.\n\nShanghai lies on China's east coast roughly equidistant from Beijing and Guangzhou. The Old City and modern downtown Shanghai are now located in the center of an expanding peninsula between the Yangtze River Delta to the north and Hangzhou Bay to the south, formed by the Yangtze's natural deposition and by modern land reclamation projects. The provincial-level Municipality of Shanghai administers both the eastern area of this peninsula and many of its surrounding islands. It is bordered on the north and west by Jiangsu, on the south by Zhejiang, and on the east by the East China Sea. Its northernmost point is on Chongming Island, now the second-largest island in mainland China after its expansion during the 20th century. The municipality does not, however, include an exclave of Jiangsu on northern Chongming or the two islands forming Shanghai's Yangshan Port, which are part of Zhejiang's Shengsi County. This deep-water port was made necessary by the increasing size of container ships but also the silting of the Yangtze, which narrows to less than as far out as from Hengsha.\n\nDowntown Shanghai is bisected by the Huangpu River, a man-made tributary of the Yangtze that was created by order of Lord Chunshen during the Warring States period. The historic center of the city was located on the west bank of the Huangpu (Puxi), near the mouth of Suzhou Creek, connecting it with Lake Tai and the Grand Canal. The central financial district Lujiazui has grown up on the east bank of the Huangpu (Pudong). The destruction of local wetlands occasioned by the creation of Pudong International Airport along the peninsula's eastern shore has been somewhat offset by the protection and expansion of the nearby shoals of Jiuduansha as a nature preserve.\n\nShanghai's location on an alluvial plain means that the vast majority of its land area is flat, with an average elevation of . Its sandy soil has required its skyscrapers to be built with deep concrete piles to stop them from sinking into the soft ground of the central area. The few hills such as She Shan lie to the southwest and the highest point is the peak of Dajinshan Island in Hangzhou Bay (). The city has many rivers, canals, streams and lakes and is known for its rich water resources as part of the Lake Tai drainage area.\n\nShanghai has a humid subtropical climate (Köppen \"Cfa\") and experiences four distinct seasons. Winters are chilly and damp, with northwesterly winds from Siberia can cause nighttime temperatures to drop below freezing, although most years there are only one or two days of snowfall. Summers are hot and humid, with an average of 8.7 days exceeding annually; occasional downpours or freak thunderstorms can be expected. The city is also susceptible to typhoons in summer and the beginning of autumn, none of which in recent years has caused considerable damage. The most pleasant seasons are spring, although changeable and often rainy, and autumn, which is generally sunny and dry. The city averages in January and in July, for an annual mean of . With monthly percent possible sunshine ranging from 34% in March to 54% in August, the city receives 1,895 hours of bright sunshine annually. Extremes since 1951 have ranged from on 31 January 1977 (unofficial record of was set on 19 January 1893) to on 6 and 8 August 2013. A highest record of was registered in Xujiahui, a downtown station on 21 July 2017.\n\nLike virtually all governing institutions in the mainland People's Republic of China, the politics of Shanghai is structured in a parallel party-government system, in which the Party Committee Secretary, officially termed the Communist Party of China Shanghai Municipal Committee Secretary (currently Li Qiang), outranks the Mayor (currently Ying Yong). The party's standing committee acts as the top policy formulation body, and is typically composed of 11 members.\n\nPolitical power in Shanghai is widely seen as a stepping stone to higher positions in the national government. Since Jiang Zemin became the General Secretary of the Communist Party of China in June 1989, all former Shanghai party secretaries but one were elevated to the Politburo Standing Committee, the \"de facto\" highest decision-making body in China, including Jiang himself (Party General Secretary), Zhu Rongji (Premier), Wu Bangguo (Chairman of the National People's Congress), Huang Ju (Vice Premier), Xi Jinping (current General Secretary), Yu Zhengsheng, and Han Zheng. Zeng Qinghong, a former deputy party secretary of Shanghai, also rose to the Politburo Standing Committee and became the Vice President and an influential power broker. The only exception is Chen Liangyu, who was fired in 2006 and later convicted of corruption. Officials with ties to the Shanghai administration form a powerful faction in the national government, the so-called Shanghai Clique, which was often thought to compete against the rival Youth League Faction over personnel appointments and policy decisions. Xi Jinping, successor to Hu Jintao as General Secretary and President, was a compromise candidate between the two groups with supporters in both camps.\n\nShanghai is administratively equal to a province and is divided into 16 county-level districts. Even though every district has its own urban core, the real city center is between Bund to the east, Nanjing Rd to the north, Old City Temple and Huaihai Road to the south. Prominent central business areas include Lujiazui on the east bank of the Huangpu River, and The Bund and Hongqiao areas in the west bank of the Huangpu River. The city hall and major administration units are located in Huangpu District, which also serve as a commercial area, including the famous Nanjing Road. Other major commercial areas include Xintiandi and the classy Huaihai Road (previously \"Avenue Joffre\") in Huangpu District and Xujiahui (formerly Romanized as \"Zikawei or Siccawei\", reflecting the Shanghainese pronunciation) in Xuhui District. Many universities in Shanghai are located in residential areas of Yangpu District and Putuo District.\n\nSeven of the districts govern Puxi ( \"The West Bank\"), the older part of urban Shanghai on the west bank of the Huangpu River. These seven districts are collectively referred to as Shanghai Proper () or the core city (), which comprise Huangpu, Xuhui, Changning, Jing'an, Putuo, Hongkou, and Yangpu.\n\nPudong ( \"The East Bank\"), the newer part of urban and suburban Shanghai on the east bank of the Huangpu River, is governed by Pudong New Area (Chuansha County until 1992, merged with Nanhui District in 2009 and with oversight of the Jiuduansha shoals).\n\nSeven of the districts govern suburbs, satellite towns, and rural areas further away from the urban core: Baoshan (Baoshan County until 1988), Minhang (original Minhang District & Shanghai County until 1992), Jiading (Jiading County until 1992), Jinshan (Jinshan County until 1997), Songjiang (Songjiang County until 1998), Qingpu (Qingpu County until 1999), and Fengxian (Fengxian County until 2001).\n\nThe islands of Changxing and Hengsha and most (but not all) of Chongming Island form Chongming.\n\nThe former district of Nanhui was absorbed into Pudong District in 2009. In 2011 Luwan District merged with Huangpu District.\n\n, these county-level divisions are further divided into the following 210 township-level divisions: 109 towns, 2 townships, 99 subdistricts. Those are in turn divided into the following village-level divisions: 3,661 neighborhood committees and 1,704 village committees.\n\nShanghai is the commercial and financial center of China, and ranks 13th in the 2017 edition of the Global Financial Centres Index (and fourth most competitive in Asia after Singapore, Hong Kong, and Tokyo) published by the Z/Yen Group and Qatar Financial Centre Authority. It also ranks the most expensive city to live in Mainland China, according to the study of Economist Intelligence Unit in 2017. It was the largest and most prosperous city in East Asia during the 1930s, and rapid re-development began in the 1990s. This is exemplified by the Pudong District, a former swampland reclaimed to serve as a pilot area for integrated economic reforms. By the end of 2009, there were 787 financial institutions, of which 170 were foreign-invested. In 2009, the Shanghai Stock Exchange ranked third among worldwide stock exchanges in terms of trading volume and sixth in terms of the total capitalization of listed companies, and the trading volume of six key commodities including rubber, copper and zinc on the Shanghai Futures Exchange all ranked first in the world. In September 2013, with the backing of Chinese Premier Li Keqiang the city launched the China (Shanghai) Pilot Free-Trade Zone-the first free-trade zone in mainland China. The Zone introduced a number of pilot reforms designed to create a preferential environment for foreign investment. In April 2014, The Banker reported that Shanghai \"has attracted the highest volumes of financial sector foreign direct investment in the Asia-Pacific region in the 12 months to the end of January 2014\". In August 2014, Shanghai was named FDi magazine's Chinese Province of the Future 2014/15 due to \"particularly impressive performances in the Business Friendliness and Connectivity categories, as well as placing second in the Economic Potential and Human Capital and Lifestyle categories\".\n\nIn the last two decades Shanghai has been one of the fastest developing cities in the world. Since 1992 Shanghai has recorded double-digit growth almost every year except during the global recession of 2008 and 2009. In 2011, Shanghai's total GDP grew to 1.92 trillion yuan (US$297 billion) with GDP per capita of 82,560 yuan (US $12,784). The three largest service industries are financial services, retail, and real estate. The manufacturing and agricultural sectors accounted for 39.9 percent and 0.7 percent of the total output respectively. Average annual disposable income of Shanghai residents, based on the first three quarters of 2009, was 21,871 RMB.\n\nLocated at the heart of the Yangtze River Delta, Shanghai has the world's busiest container port, which handled 29.05 million TEUs in 2010. Shanghai aims to be an international shipping center in the near future.\n\nShanghai is one of the main industrial centers of China, playing a key role in China's heavy industries. A large number of industrial zones, including Shanghai Hongqiao Economic and Technological Development Zone, Jinqiao Export Economic Processing Zone, Minhang Economic and Technological Development Zone, and Shanghai Caohejing High-Tech Development Zone, are backbones of Shanghai's secondary industry. Heavy industries accounted for 78% of the gross industrial output in 2009. China's largest steelmaker Baosteel Group, China's largest shipbuilding base – Hudong-Zhonghua Shipbuilding Group, and the Jiangnan Shipyard, one of China's oldest shipbuilders are all located in Shanghai. Auto manufacture is another important industry. The Shanghai-based SAIC Motor is one of the three largest automotive corporations in China, and has strategic partnerships with Volkswagen and General Motors.\n\nThe conference and meeting sector is also growing. In 2012, the city hosted 780 international gatherings, up from 754 in 2011. The high supply of hotel rooms has kept room rates lower than expected, with the average room rate for four- and five-star hotels in 2012 at just RMB950 (US$153). Tourism in general has become a major industry. In 2016, 296 million domestic tourists and 8.54 million overseas tourists visited Shanghai for an approximate increase of 7% from the previous year.\n\nAs of September 2013, Shanghai is also home to the largest free-trade zone in mainland China, the China (Shanghai) Pilot Free-Trade Zone. The zone covers an area of and integrates four existing bonded zones — Waigaoqiao Free Trade Zone, Waigaoqiao Free Trade Logistics Park, Yangshan Free Trade Port Area and Pudong Airport Comprehensive Free Trade Zone. Several preferential policies have been implemented to attract foreign investment in various industries to the FTZ. Because the Zone is not technically considered PRC territory for tax purposes, commodities entering the zone are not subject to duty and customs clearance as would otherwise be the case.\n\nThe 2010 census put Shanghai's total population at 23,019,148, a growth of 37.53% from 16,737,734 in 2000. 20.6 million of the total population, or 89.3%, are urban, and 2.5 million (10.7％) are rural. Based on the population of its total administrative area, Shanghai is the second largest of the four municipalities of China, behind Chongqing, but is generally considered the largest Chinese city because Chongqing's urban population is much smaller.\n\nShanghai also has 150,000 officially registered foreigners, including 31,500 Japanese, 21,000 Americans and 20,700 Koreans, but the real number of foreign citizens in the city is probably much higher. Shanghai is also a domestic immigration city, which means a huge population of citizens come from other cities in China.\n\nThe encompassing metropolitan area was estimated by the OECD (Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development) to have, , a population of 34 million.\n\nIn 2017 the Chinese Government implemented population controls for Shanghai. Latest statistics show that from this policy, Shanghai population declined by 10,000.\n\nDue to its cosmopolitan history, Shanghai has a blend of religious heritage as shown by the religious buildings and institutions still scattered around the city. According to a 2012 survey only around 13% of the population of Shanghai belongs to organised religions, the largest groups being Buddhists with 10.4%, followed by Protestants with 1.9%, Catholics with 0.7% and other faiths with 0.1%. Around 87% of the population may be either irreligious or involved in worship of nature deities and ancestors, Confucian churches, Taoism and folk religious sects.\n\nThere are folk religious temples such as a Temple of the Chenghuangshen (City God), at the heart of the old city, and a temple dedicated to the Three Kingdoms general Guan Yu. The White Cloud Temple of Shanghai is an important Taoist centre in the city. The \"Wenmiao\" (Temple of the God of Culture) is dedicated to Confucius.\n\nBuddhism, in its Chinese varieties, has had a presence in Shanghai since ancient times. The Longhua Temple, the largest temple in Shanghai, and the Jing'an Temple, were first founded in the Three Kingdoms period. Another important temple is the Jade Buddha Temple, which is named after a large statue of Buddha carved out of jade in the temple. In recent decades, dozens of modern temples have been built throughout the city.\n\nIslam came into Shanghai 700 years ago and a mosque was built in 1295 in Songjiang. In 1843, a teachers' college was also set up. The Shanghai Muslim Association is located in the Xiaotaoyuan Mosque in Huangpu.\n\nShanghai has one of the largest proportions of Catholics in China (2003). Among Catholic churches, St Ignatius Cathedral in Xujiahui is one of the largest, while She Shan Basilica is an active pilgrimage site.\n\nOther forms of Christianity in Shanghai include Eastern Orthodox minorities and, since 1996, registered Christian Protestant churches. During World War II thousands of Jews descended upon Shanghai in an effort to flee Hitler's regime. The Jews lived side-by-side in a designated area called Shanghai Ghetto and formed a vibrant community centered on the Ohel Moishe Synagogue, which is preserved remnant of this portion of Shanghai's complex religious past.\n\nShanghai ranked first in the 2009 and 2012 Program for International Student Assessment (PISA), a worldwide study of academic performance of 15-year-old students conducted by the OECD. Shanghai students, including migrant children, scored highest in every aspect (math, reading and science) in the world. The study concludes that public-funded schools in Shanghai have the highest educational quality in the world. Critics of PISA results counter that, in Shanghai and other Chinese cities, most children of migrant workers can only attend city schools up to the ninth grade, and must return to their parents' hometowns for high school due to hukou restrictions, thus skewing the composition of the city's high school students in favor of wealthier local families.\n\nShanghai is the first city in the country to implement 9-year mandatory education. The 2010 census shows that out of Shanghai's total population, 22.0% had a college education, double the level from 2000, while 21.0% had high school, 36.5% middle school, and 1.35% primary school education. 2.74% of residents age 15 and older were illiterate.\n\nShanghai has more than 930 kindergartens, 1,200 primary and 850 middle schools. Over 760,000 middle schools students and 871,000 primary school students are taught by 76,000 and 64,000 teaching staff respectively.\n\nShanghai is a major center of higher education in China with over 30 universities and colleges. A number of China's most prestigious universities are based in Shanghai, including Fudan University, Shanghai Jiao Tong University, Tongji University, East China Normal University (these universities are selected as \"985 universities\" by the Chinese Government in order to build world-class universities). In 2012 NYU Shanghai was established in Pudong by New York University in partnership with East China Normal University as the first Sino-US joint venture university. In 2013 the Shanghai Municipality and the Chinese Academy of Sciences founded the ShanghaiTech University in the Zhangjiang Hi-Tech Park in Pudong. This new research university is aiming to be a first-class institution on a national and international level. The cadre school China Executive Leadership Academy in Pudong is also located in Shanghai, as well as the China Europe International Business School.\n\nChildren with foreign passports are permitted to attend any public school in Shanghai. Prior to 2007 they were permitted to attend 150 select public schools. In 2006 about 2,000 non-Chinese nationals under 18 years of age attended Shanghai public schools. Students with Hanyu Shuiping Kaoshi (HSK) above 3 or 4 may attend public schools using Mandarin Chinese as the medium of instruction, while students below HSK 3–4 may attend international divisions of public schools or private international schools.\n\nShanghai has the largest number of international schools of any city in China. In November 2015 Christopher Cottrell of the \"Global Times\" wrote that Shanghai \"prides itself on its international schools\".\n\nShanghai has an extensive public transport system, largely based on metros, buses and taxis. Payment of all these public transportation tools can be made by using the Shanghai Public Transportation Card.\n\nShanghai's rapid transit system, the Shanghai Metro, incorporates both subway and light metro lines and extends to every core urban district as well as neighboring suburban districts. , there are 16 metro lines (excluding the Shanghai Maglev Train and Jinshan Railway), 395 stations and of lines in operation, making it the longest network in the world. On 31 December 2016, it set a record of daily ridership of 11.7 million. The fare depends on the length of travel distance starting from 3 RMB.\nIn 2010, Shanghai reintroduced trams, this time as a modern rubber tyred Translohr system, in Zhangjiang area of East Shanghai as Zhangjiang Tram. A separate conventional tram system is being constructed in Songjiang District. Additional tram lines are under study in Hongqiao Subdistrict and Jiading District.\n\nShanghai also has the world's most extensive network of urban bus routes, with nearly one thousand bus lines, operated by numerous transportation companies. The system includes the world's oldest continuously operating trolleybus system. Bus fare normally costs 2 RMB.\n\nTaxis are plentiful in Shanghai. The base fare is currently ¥14(sedan)/¥16(MPV) (inclusive of a ¥1 fuel surcharge; ¥18 between 11:00 pm and 5:00 am) which covers the first . Additional km cost ¥2.4 each (¥3.2 between 11:00 pm and 5:00 am).\n\nShanghai is a major hub of China's expressway network. Many national expressways (prefixed with G) pass through or terminate in Shanghai, including G2 Beijing–Shanghai Expressway (overlapping G42 Shanghai–Chengdu), G15 Shenyang–Haikou, G40 Shanghai–Xi'an, G50 Shanghai–Chongqing, G60 Shanghai–Kunming (overlapping G92 Shanghai–Ningbo), and G1501 Shanghai Ring Expressway. In addition, there are also numerous municipal expressways prefixed with S (S1, S2, S20, etc.). Shanghai has one bridge-tunnel crossing spanning the mouth of the Yangtze to the north of the city.\n\nIn the city center, there are several elevated expressways to lessen traffic pressure on surface streets, but the growth of car use has made demand far outstrip capacity, with heavy congestion being commonplace. There are bicycle lanes separate from car traffic on many surface streets, but bicycles and motorcycles are banned from many main roads including the elevated expressways. Recently, cycling has seen a resurgence in popularity thanks to the emergence of a large number of dockless app based bikeshares such as Mobike, Bluegogo and Ofo.\n\nPrivate car ownership in Shanghai has been rapidly increasing in recent years, but a new private car cannot be driven until the owner buys a license in the monthly private car license plate auction. Around 11,500 license plates are auctioned each month and the average price is about 84,000 RMB ($12,758). According to the municipal regulation in 2016, only those who are Shanghai registered residents or have paid social insurance or individual incomer tax for over 3 years in a row. The purpose of this policy is to limit the growth of automobile traffic and to alleviate congestion.\n\nShanghai has four major railway stations: Shanghai Railway Station, Shanghai South Railway Station, Shanghai West Railway Station, and Shanghai Hongqiao Railway Station. All are connected to the metro network and serve as hubs in the railway network of China. Two main railways terminate in Shanghai: Jinghu Railway from Beijing, and Huhang Railway from Hangzhou. Hongqiao Station also serves as the main Shanghai terminus of three high-speed rail lines: the Shanghai–Hangzhou High-Speed Railway, the Shanghai–Nanjing High-Speed Railway, and the Beijing–Shanghai High-Speed Railway.\n\nShanghai is one of the leading air transport gateways in Asia. The city has two commercial airports: Shanghai Pudong International Airport and Shanghai Hongqiao International Airport. Pudong Airport is the main international airport, while Hongqiao Airport mainly operates domestic flights with limited short-haul international flights. In 2010 the two airports served 71.7 million passengers (Pudong 40.4 million, Hongqiao 31.3 million), and handled 3.7 million tons of cargo (Pudong 3.22 million tons, Hongqiao 480 thousand tons).\n\nShanghai has a rich collection of buildings and structures of various architectural styles. The Bund, located by the bank of the Huangpu River, is home to a row of early 20th-century architecture, ranging in style from the neoclassical HSBC Building to the art deco Sassoon House. Many areas in the former foreign concessions are also well-preserved, the most notable being the French Concession.\n\nShanghai has one of the world's largest number of Art Deco buildings as a result of the construction boom during the 1920s and 1930s. One of the most famous architects working in Shanghai was László Hudec, a Hungarian-Slovak architect who lived in the city between 1918 and 1947. Some of his most notable Art Deco buildings include the Park Hotel and the Grand Theater. Other prominent architects who contributed to the Art Deco style are Parker & Palmer, who designed the Peace Hotel, Metropole Hotel, and the Broadway Mansions, and Austrian architect GH Gonda, who designed the Capital Theatre. The Bund's first revitalization started in 1986, with a new promenade by the Dutch Architect Paulus Snoeren, and was completed in the mid-1990s.\n\nIn recent years, a great deal of architecturally distinctive and even eccentric buildings have sprung up throughout Shanghai. Notable examples of contemporary architecture include the Shanghai Museum, Shanghai Grand Theatre in the People's Square precinct, and the Shanghai Oriental Art Center. Despite rampant redevelopment, the old city still retains some traditional architecture and designs, such as the Yuyuan Garden, an elaborate traditional garden in the Jiangnan style.\n\nOne uniquely Shanghainese cultural element is the \"shikumen\" (石库门) residences, which are two- or three-story townhouses, with the front yard protected by a high brick wall. Each residence is connected and arranged in straight alleys, known as a \"longtang\" (弄堂), pronounced \"longdang\" in Shanghainese. The entrance to each alley is usually surmounted by a stylistic stone arch. The whole resembles terrace houses or townhouses commonly seen in Anglo-American countries, but distinguished by the tall, heavy brick wall in front of each house. The name \"shikumen\" means \"stone storage door\", referring to the strong gateway to each house.\n\nThe shikumen is a cultural blend of elements found in Western architecture with traditional Lower Yangtze (Jiangnan) Chinese architecture and social behavior. All traditional Chinese dwellings had a courtyard, and the shikumen was no exception. Yet, to compromise with its urban nature, it was much smaller and provided an \"interior haven\" to the commotions in the streets, allowing for raindrops to fall and vegetation to grow freely within a residence. The courtyard also allowed sunlight and adequate ventilation into the rooms.\nLess than Beijing, the city also has some examples of Soviet neoclassical architecture or Stalinist architecture. These buildings were mostly erected during the period from the founding of the People's Republic in 1949 until the Sino-Soviet Split in the late 1960s. During this decade, large numbers of Soviet experts, including architects, poured into China to aid the country in the construction of a communist state. Examples of Soviet neoclassical architecture in Shanghai include what is today the Shanghai Exhibition Centre.\n\nThe Pudong district of Shanghai is home to a number of skyscrapers, many of which rank among the tallest in the world. Among the most prominent examples are the Jin Mao Tower and the taller Shanghai World Financial Center, which at tall is the third tallest skyscraper in mainland China and ranks tenth in the world. The Shanghai Tower, completed in 2015, is the tallest building in China, as well as the second tallest in the world. With a height of , the building has 128 floors and a total floor area of above ground. The distinctive Oriental Pearl Tower, at , is located nearby, as is One Lujiazui, standing at .\n\nThe extensive public park system in Shanghai offers the citizens some reprieve from the urban jungle. By the year 2012, the city had 157 parks, with 138 of them free of charge. Some of the parks, aside from offering a green public space to locals, became popular tourist attractions due to their unique location, history or architecture. The former racetrack turned central park, People's Square park, located in the heart of downtown Shanghai, is especially well known for its proximity to other major landmarks in the city. Fuxing Park, located in the former French Concession of Shanghai, features formal French-style gardens and is surrounded by high end bars and cafes. Zhongshan Park in northwestern central Shanghai is famous for its monument of Chopin, the tallest statue dedicated to the composer in the world. Built in 1914 as Jessfield Park, it once contained the campus of St. John's University, Shanghai's first international college; today, it is known for its extensive rose and peony gardens, a large children's play area, and as the location of an important transfer station on the city's metro system. Shanghai Botanical Garden is located southwest of the city center and was established in 1978. One of the newest parks is in the Xujiahui area – Xujiahui Park, built in 1999 on the former grounds of the Great Chinese Rubber Works Factory and the EMI Recording Studio (now La Villa Rouge restaurant). The park has a man-made lake with a sky bridge running across the park, and offers a pleasant respite for Xujiahui shoppers. Other well-known Shanghai parks include: People's Square Park, Gongqing Forest Park, Fuxing Park, Zhongshan Park, Lu Xun Park, Century Park, and Jing'an Park.\nThe Shanghai Disney Resort Project was approved by the government on 4 November 2009, and opened in 2016. \nThe $4.4 billion theme park and resort in Pudong features a castle that is the biggest among Disney's resorts.\n\nPublic awareness of the environment is growing, and the city is investing in a number of environmental protection projects. A 10-year, US$1 billion cleanup of Suzhou Creek, which runs through the city-center, was expected to be finished in 2008, and the government also provides incentives for transportation companies to invest in LPG buses and taxis. Additionally, the government has moved almost all the factories within the city center to either the outskirts or other provinces in the recent decades.\n\nAir pollution in Shanghai is not as severe as in many other Chinese cities, but still substantial by world standards. During the December 2013 Eastern China smog, air pollution rates reached between 23 and 31 times the international standard. On 6 December 2013, levels of PM particulate matter in Shanghai rose above 600 micrograms per cubic meter and in the surrounding area, above 700 micrograms per cubic metre. Levels of PM in Putuo District reached 726 micrograms per cubic meter. As a result, the Shanghai Municipal Education Commission received orders to suspend students' outdoor activities. Authorities pulled nearly one-third of government vehicles from the roads, while a mass of construction work was halted. Most of inbound flights were cancelled, and more than 50 flights were diverted at Pudong International Airport.\n\nOn 23 January 2014, Yang Xiong, the mayor of Shanghai municipality announced that three main measures would be taken to manage the air pollution in Shanghai, along with surrounding Anhui, Jiangsu and Zhejiang provinces. The measures involved delivery of the 2013 air cleaning program, linkage mechanism with the three surrounding provinces and improvement of the ability of early warning of emergency situation. On 12 February 2014, China's cabinet announced that a 10-billion-renminbi (US$1.7-billion) fund will be set up to help companies to meet new environmental standards.\n\nShanghai is sometimes considered a center of innovation and progress in China. It was in Shanghai, for example, that the first motor car was driven and (technically) the first train tracks and modern sewers were laid. It was also the intellectual battleground between socialist writers who concentrated on critical realism, which was pioneered by Lu Xun, Mao Dun, Nien Cheng and the famous French novel by André Malraux, \"Man's Fate\", and the more \"bourgeois\", more romantic and aesthetically inclined writers, such as Shi Zhecun, Shao Xunmei, Ye Lingfeng and Eileen Chang.\n\nIn the past years Shanghai has been widely recognized as a new influence and inspiration for cyberpunk culture. Futuristic buildings such as the Oriental Pearl Tower and the neon-illuminated Yan'an Elevated Road are a few examples that have helped to boost Shanghai's cyberpunk image.\n\nThe vernacular language spoken in the city is Shanghainese, a dialect of the Taihu Wu subgroup of the Wu Chinese family. This makes it a different language from the official language nationwide, which is Mandarin, itself completely mutually unintelligible with Wu Chinese. Most Shanghai residents are the descendants of immigrants from the two adjacent provinces of Jiangsu and Zhejiang who moved to Shanghai in the late 19th and early 20th centuries. The population of those regions speak different Wu Chinese dialects. From the 1990s, many migrants outside of the Wu-speaking region have come to Shanghai for work and education. They often cannot speak or learn the local language and therefore use Mandarin as a lingua franca.\n\nModern Shanghainese is based on different dialects of Taihu Wu: Suzhounese, Ningbonese and dialects of Shanghai's traditional areas (now lying within the Hongkou, Baoshan and Pudong districts). The prestige dialect of Wu Chinese is spoken within the city of Shanghai prior to its modern expansion. Known as \"the local tongue\" (), it is influenced to a lesser extent by the languages of other nearby regions from which large numbers of people have migrated to Shanghai since the 20th century, and includes a significant number of terms borrowed from European languages. The prevalence of Mandarin fluency is generally higher for those born after 1949 than those born before, while the prevalence of English fluency is higher for people who received their secondary and tertiary education before 1949 than those who did so after 1949 and before the 1990s. On the other hand, however, Shanghainese started to decline and fluency amongst young speakers weakened, as Mandarin and English are being favoured and taught over the native language. In recent years though, there have been movements within the city to protect and promote the local language from ever fading out.\n\nCultural curation in Shanghai has seen significant growth since 2013, with several new museums having been opened in the city. This is in part due to the city's most recently released city development plans, with aims in making the city \"an excellent global city\". As such, Shanghai has several museums of regional and national importance. The Shanghai Museum has one of the best collections of Chinese historical artifacts in the world, including a large collection of ancient Chinese bronzes. The China Art Museum, located in the former China Pavilion of Expo 2010, is the largest art museum in Asia. Power Station of Art is built in a converted power station, similar to London's Tate Modern. The Shanghai Natural History Museum and the Shanghai Science and Technology Museum are major natural history and science museums. In addition, there is a variety of smaller, specialist museums housed in important archaeological and historical sites such as the Songze Museum, the Museum of the First National Congress of the Chinese Communist Party, the site of the Provisional Government of the Republic of Korea, the former Ohel Moshe Synagogue (Shanghai Jewish Refugees Museum), and the General Post Office Building (Shanghai Postal Museum). The Rockbund Art Museum is also in Shanghai. There are also many art galleries, concentrated in the M50 Art District and Tianzifang. Shanghai is also home to one of China's largest aquariums, the Shanghai Ocean Aquarium. MoCA, Museum of Contemporary Art of Shanghai, is a private museum centrally located in People's Park on West Nanjing Road, and is committed to promote contemporary art and design.\n\nShanghai was the birthplace of Chinese cinema and theater. China's first short film, \"The Difficult Couple\" (1913), and the country's first fictional feature film, \"An Orphan Rescues His Grandfather\" (, 1923) were both produced in Shanghai. These two films were very influential, and established Shanghai as the center of Chinese film-making. Shanghai's film industry went on to blossom during the early 1930s, generating great stars such as Hu Die, Ruan Lingyu, Zhou Xuan, Jin Yan, and Zhao Dan. Another film star, Jiang Qing, went on to become Madame Mao Zedong. The exile of Shanghainese filmmakers and actors as a result of the Second Sino-Japanese War and the Communist revolution contributed enormously to the development of the Hong Kong film industry. Many aspects of Shanghainese popular culture (\"Shanghainese Pops\") were transferred to Hong Kong by the numerous Shanghainese emigrants and refugees after the Communist Revolution. The movie \"In the Mood for Love\", which was directed by Wong Kar-wai (a native Shanghainese himself), depicts a slice of the displaced Shanghainese community in Hong Kong and the nostalgia for that era, featuring 1940s music by Zhou Xuan.\n\nThe \"Shanghai School\" was an important Chinese school of traditional arts during the Qing Dynasty and the 20th century. Under the masters from this school, traditional Chinese art developed into the modern style of \"Chinese painting\". The Shanghai School challenged and broke the elitist tradition of Chinese art, while also paying technical homage to the ancient masters and improving on existing traditional techniques. Members of this school were themselves educated \"literati\" who had come to question their very status and the purpose of art and had anticipated the impending modernization of Chinese society. In an era of rapid social change, works from the Shanghai School were widely innovative and diverse and often contained thoughtful yet subtle social commentary. The best known figures from this school include Qi Baishi, Ren Xiong, Ren Bonian, Zhao Zhiqian, Wu Changshuo, Sha Menghai, Pan Tianshou, Fu Baoshi, Xie Zhiliu, He Tianjian, and Wang Zhen. In literature, the term was used in the 1930s by some May Fourth Movement intellectualsnotably Zhou Zuoren and Shen Congwenas a derogatory label for the literature produced in Shanghai at the time. They argued that Shanghai School literature was merely commercial and therefore did not advance social progress. This became known as the \"Jingpai\" versus \"Haipai\" (Beijing v. Shanghai School) debate.\n\nThe \"Songjiang School\" () was a small painting school during the Ming Dynasty. It is commonly considered as a further development of the Wu or Wumen School in the then-cultural center of the region, Suzhou. The Huating School () was another important art school during the middle to late Ming Dynasty. Its main achievements were in traditional Chinese painting, calligraphy, and poetry. It was especially famous for its Renwen painting (). Dong Qichang was one of the masters from this school.\n\nOther Shanghainese cultural artifacts include the cheongsam (Shanghainese: \"zansae\"), a modernization of the traditional Manchurian qipao. This contrasts sharply with the traditional qipao, which was designed to conceal the figure and be worn regardless of age. The cheongsam went along well with the western overcoat and the scarf, and portrayed a unique East Asian modernity, epitomizing the Shanghainese population in general. As Western fashions changed, the basic cheongsam design changed, too, introducing high-neck sleeveless dresses, bell-like sleeves, and the black lace frothing at the hem of a ball gown. By the 1940s, cheongsams came in transparent black, beaded bodices, matching capes and even velvet. Later, checked fabrics became also quite common. The 1949 Communist Revolution ended the cheongsam and other fashions in Shanghai. However, the Shanghainese styles have seen a recent revival as stylish party dresses. The fashion industry has been rapidly revitalizing in the past decade. Like Shanghai's architecture, local fashion designers strive to create a fusion of western and traditional designs, often with innovative if controversial results.\n\nIn recent times Shanghai has established its own fashion week called Shanghai Fashion Week. It is held twice every year in October and April. The April session is a part of Shanghai International Fashion Culture Festival which usually lasts for a month, while Shanghai Fashion Week lasts for seven days, and the main venue is in Fuxing Park, Shanghai, while the opening and closing ceremony is in Shanghai Fashion Center. Supported by the People's Republic Ministry of Commerce, Shanghai Fashion Week is a major business and culture event of national significance hosted by the Shanghai Municipal Government. Shanghai Fashion Week is aiming to build up an international and professional platform, gathering all of the top design talents of Asia.\nThe event features international designers but the primary purpose is to showcase Chinese designers. The international presence has included many of the most promising young British fashion designers.\n\nIn regard to foreign publications in Shanghai, Hartmut Walravens of the IFLA Newspapers Section said that when the Japanese controlled Shanghai in the 1940s \"it was very difficult to publish good papers – one either had to concentrate on emigration problems, or cooperate like the \"Chronicle\"\".\n\nNewspapers include:\n\nNewspapers formerly published in Shanghai include:\n\nBroadcasters:\n\nShanghai is home to several football teams, including two in the Chinese Super League – Shanghai Greenland Shenhua and Shanghai SIPG. Another professional team, Shanghai Shenxin, is currently in China League One. China's top tier basketball team, the Shanghai Sharks of the Chinese Basketball Association, developed Yao Ming before he entered the NBA. Shanghai also has an ice hockey team, China Dragon, and a baseball team, the Shanghai Golden Eagles, which plays in the China Baseball League.\n\nShanghai is the hometown of many outstanding and well-known Chinese professional athletes, such as Yao Ming, the 110-meter hurdler Liu Xiang, the table-tennis player Wang Liqin and the former world women's single champion and current Olympic silver medalist badminton player Wang Yihan.\n\nBeginning in 2004, Shanghai started hosting the Chinese Grand Prix, one round of the Formula One World Championship. The race was staged at the Shanghai International Circuit. In 2010, Shanghai also became the host city of German Touring Car Masters (DTM), which raced in a street circuit in Pudong.\n\nShanghai also holds the Shanghai Masters tennis tournament which is part of ATP World Tour Masters 1000, and the BMW Masters and WGC-HSBC Champions golf tournaments.\n\nThe Shanghai Cricket Club is a cricket club based in Shanghai. The club dates back to 1858 when the first recorded cricket match was played between a team of British Naval officers and a Shanghai 11. Following a 45-year dormancy after the founding of the People's Republic of China in 1949, the club was re-established in 1994 by expatriates living in the city and has since grown to over 300 members. The Shanghai cricket team was a cricket team that played various international matches between 1866 and 1948. With cricket in the rest of China almost non-existent, for that period they were the de facto Chinese national side.\n\nOn 21 September 2017, Shanghai will be one of two cities to host a National Hockey League (NHL) ice hockey exhibition game that will feature the Los Angeles Kings vs. the Vancouver Canucks as an effort to garner fan interest in China before the start of the 2017–18 season.\n\nThe city is the home of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO), a Eurasian political, economic, and security organisation.\n\nShanghai is twinned with:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19041924", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19041924", "title": "Sideboard (Edward William Godwin)", "text": "Sideboard (Edward William Godwin)\n\nThis sideboard was designed by Edward William Godwin (1833–86), who was one of the most important exponents of Victorian \"Japonisme\", the appropriation of Japanese artistic styles. Japan began trading with the West in the 1850s, and by the next decade imported Japanese prints (Ukiyo-e), ceramics and textiles were very fashionable in Britain. Godwin was influenced by interiors depicted in Japanese prints and by the studies he made of Japanese architecture, but he did not seek to imitate Japanese designs. Instead his Anglo-Japanese furniture aimed to combine the more general principles of simplicity and elegance he admired in the art of Japan with domestic needs of the Victorian home.\n\nThe sideboard is stylish and dramatic, but it is also quite appropriate for use in a dining room. It is functional with drawers, adjustable shelves, and a rack fitted to take a large dish between the cupboards. The construction and finish are practical and hygienic, with hard surfaces and simple decoration, and the raised bottom shelf gives access for cleaning the floor.\n\nGodwin designed the first version of this sideboard in ebonised deal, a cheap wood, in 1867. He subsequently changed to ebonised mahogany, as he found deal to be unstable. At least ten versions of the original were made between 1867 and 1888, with differences in design, in decoration or in the number of legs. There are several surviving examples of this sideboard, made of ebonised deal, mahogany, or oak and pine. The original sideboard was designed by Godwin for the dining room of his London home in 1867.\n"}
{"id": "54407335", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54407335", "title": "Springmount Bog Tablets", "text": "Springmount Bog Tablets\n\nThe Springmount Bog Tablets are a set of six wooden wax tablets dating to the late 7th or early 8th century that were discovered in 1914 in the Springmount bog near Ballyhutherland, County Antrim, Northern Ireland. The tablets form a booklet with text from the \"Book of Psalms\" inscribed on the wax surface of the wooden pages. The tablets are considered to be the earliest surviving example of Irish writing in the Latin script, and were included as no. 25 in a set of 100 items representing \"A History of Ireland in 100 Objects\" compiled by \"The Irish Times\", the National Museum of Ireland, and the Royal Irish Academy.\n\nThe tablets were discovered in 1914 by W. Gregg of Clough, in the Springmount Bog (also known as Ballyhutherland Bog), less than a mile from the village of Clough, and about seven miles north of Ballymena, in County Antrim. Gregg found the tablets about four feet below the surface while cutting peat.\n\nGregg sold the tablets to the National Museum of Ireland in 1914 (acquisition number S.A. 1914.2), and they are currently held at the National Museum of Ireland – Archaeology on Kildare Street in Dublin, Ireland.\n\nSix tablets made of yew wood are bound together along one edge with a leather thong, and tied shut at the top and bottom with two leather straps. Both sides of the inner four tablets, and the inner sides of the two outer tablets, have been hollowed out and filled with wax to form the writing surfaces of a wooden book of ten pages. Each wooden tablet is about 7.5 × 21.0 cm in size, and about 0.7 cm thick. The wax had partially melted when found, and some of the wax was damaged when the tablets were opened after discovery, but nevertheless much of the text is still legible.\n\nThe Vulgate (Latin) text of parts of \"Psalms\" 30 through 32 (31–33 in modern numbering) has been inscribed on the wax surface using a stylus. The text is laid out in two columns, except on the first wax page. The letters are written in \"Irish majuscule\" (also known as Insular half-uncial) script. The Latin text represents Jerome's Gallican version of the \"Psalms\" rather than the earlier Old Latin version.\n\nThe tablets have been dated to the late 7th-century on palaeographic evidence, and in 1963 David H. Wright suggested a date of about 600, which has been generally accepted.\n\nIt is thought that the tablets came from a monastery near where they were found, and were probably used for teaching literacy and as an aid for memorizing the \"Psalms\".\n\n"}
{"id": "14694871", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14694871", "title": "Tessa Hofmann", "text": "Tessa Hofmann\n\nTessa Hofmann (Savvidis) (born 15 December 1949, Bassum, Lower Saxony) is a scholar of Armenian studies and sociology, PhD, research scholar at the Free University of Berlin. \n\nShe studied at the Department of Slavonic Languages and Literature, as well as Armenian studies and sociology at the Free University of Berlin.\n\nHofmann is a member of the Society for Threatened Peoples. She is the chairperson of reorganized Working Group “Affirmation” – Against Genocide, for Reconciliation. She is an active participant in the international initiative “Speaking with one voice!” for the recognition of the Armenian, Aramean and Greek genocide. Hofmann is the author of over a dozen books on Armenian history and culture. She is an honorary professor at the Hrachia Acharian University, Yerevan (2002).\n\nHofmann is the editor of \"Takibat, Tehcir Ve İmha\" (2013), the Turkish edition of the original German collective monograph (2004; 2nd, rev. ed. 2007) on the genocide against Christians during the last decade of Ottoman rule.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10052763", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10052763", "title": "The Ball of Letters", "text": "The Ball of Letters\n\nThe Ball of Letters (from the Spanish: La Pelota de Letras) is a stand-up comedy DVD released by Colombian comedian Andrés López Forero. More than 2.5 Million people have attended the show. López has presented his show in many Latin American countries. In 2005 he won the HOLA Award from the Hispanic Organization of Latin Actors for the \"Outstanding Solo Performance\" after sold out shows in New York and Miami.\n\n"}
{"id": "29458661", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29458661", "title": "The New Jim Crow", "text": "The New Jim Crow\n\nThe New Jim Crow: Mass Incarceration in the Age of Colorblindness is a book by Michelle Alexander, a civil rights litigator and legal scholar. The book discusses race-related issues specific to African-American males and mass incarceration in the United States, but Alexander notes that the discrimination faced by African-American males is prevalent among other minorities and socio-economically disadvantaged populations. Alexander's central premise, from which the book derives its title, is that \"mass incarceration is, metaphorically, the New Jim Crow\".\n\nThough the conventional point of view holds that racial discrimination has mostly ended with the civil rights movement reforms of the 1960s, Alexander posits that the U.S. criminal justice system uses the War on Drugs as a primary tool for enforcing traditional, as well as new, modes of discrimination and repression. These new modes of racism have led to not only the highest rate of incarceration in the world, but also an even greater imprisonment of African American men. Were present trends to continue, Alexander writes, the United States will imprison one-third of its African American population. When combined with the fact that whites are more likely to commit drug crimes than people of color, the issue becomes clear for Alexander: \"The primary targets of [the penal system's] control can be defined largely by race.\"\n\nThis, ultimately, leads Alexander to believe that mass incarceration is \"a stunningly comprehensive and well-disguised system of racialized social control that functions in a manner strikingly similar to Jim Crow\". The culmination of this social control is what Alexander calls a \"racial caste system\", a type of stratification wherein people of color are kept in an inferior position. Its emergence, she believes, is a direct response to the Civil Rights Movement. It is because of this that Alexander argues for issues with mass incarceration to be addressed as issues of racial justice and civil rights. To approach these matters as anything but would be to fortify this new racial caste. Thus, Alexander aims to mobilize the civil rights community to move the incarceration issue to the forefront of its agenda and to provide factual information, data, arguments and a point of reference for those interested in pursuing the issue. Her broader goal is the revamping of the prevailing mentality regarding human rights, equality and equal opportunities in America, to prevent future cyclical recurrence of what she sees as \"racial control under changing disguise\".\nAccording to the author, what has been altered since the collapse of Jim Crow is not so much the basic structure of US society, as the language used to justify its affairs. She argues that when people of color are disproportionately labeled as \"criminals\", this allows the unleashing of a whole range of legal discrimination measures in employment, housing, education, public benefits, voting rights, jury duty, and so on.\n\nAlexander explains that it took her years to become fully aware and convinced of the phenomena she describes, despite her professional civil rights background. She expects similar reluctance and disbelief on the part of many of her readers. She believes that the problems besetting African American communities are not merely a passive, collateral side effect of poverty, limited educational opportunity or other factors, but a consequence of purposeful government policies. Alexander has concluded that mass incarceration policies, which were swiftly developed and implemented, are a \"comprehensive and well-disguised system of racialized control that functions in a manner strikingly similar to Jim Crow.\"\n\nAlexander contends that in 1982 the Reagan administration began an escalation of the War on Drugs, purportedly as a response to a crack cocaine crisis in black ghettos, which was (she claims) announced well before crack cocaine arrived in most inner city neighborhoods. During the mid-1980s, as the use of crack cocaine increased to epidemic levels in these neighborhoods, federal drug authorities publicized the problem, using scare tactics to generate support for their already-declared escalation. The government's successful media campaign made possible an unprecedented expansion of law enforcement activities in America's urban neighborhoods, and this aggressive approach fueled widespread belief in conspiracy theories that posited government plans to destroy the black population.\n\nIn 1998, the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) acknowledged that during the 1980s the Contra faction—covertly supported by the US in Nicaragua—had been involved in smuggling cocaine into the US and distributing it in US cities. Drug Enforcement Administration efforts to expose these illegal activities were blocked by Reagan officials, which contributed to an explosion of crack cocaine consumption in America's urban neighborhoods. More aggressive enforcement of federal drug laws resulted in a dramatic increase in street level arrests for possession. Disparate sentencing policies (the crack cocaine v. powdered cocaine penalty disparity was 100-1 by weight and remains 18-1 even after recent reform efforts) meant that a disproportionate number of inner city residents were charged with felonies and sentenced to long prison terms, because they tended to purchase the more affordable crack version of cocaine, rather than the powdered version commonly consumed in the suburbs.\n\nAlexander argues that the War on Drugs has a devastating impact on inner city African American communities, on a scale entirely out of proportion to the actual dimensions of criminal activity taking place within these communities. During the past three decades, the US prison population has exploded from 300,000 to more than two million, with the majority of the increase due to drug convictions. This has led to the US having the world's highest incarceration rate. The US incarceration rate is eight times that of Germany, a comparatively developed large democracy. Alexander claims that the US is unparalleled in the world in focusing enforcement of federal drug laws on racial and ethnic minorities. In the capital city of Washington, D.C. three out of four young African American males are expected to serve time in prison. While studies show that quantitatively Americans of different races consume illegal drugs at similar rates, in some states black men have been sent to prison on drug charges at rates twenty to fifty times those of white men. The proportion of African American men with some sort of criminal record approaches 80% in some major US cities, and they become marginalized, part of what Alexander calls \"a growing and permanent \"undercaste\"\".\n\nAlexander maintains that this \"undercaste\" is hidden from view, invisible within a maze of rationalizations, with mass incarceration its most serious manifestation. Alexander borrows from the term \"racial caste\", as it is commonly used in scientific literature, to create \"undercaste\", denoting a \"stigmatized racial group locked into inferior position by law and custom\". By \"mass incarceration\" she refers to the entire web of laws, rules, policies and customs that make up the criminal justice system and which serve as a gateway to permanent marginalization in the undercaste. Once released from prison, new members of this undercaste face a \"hidden underworld of legalized discrimination and permanent social exclusion\".\n\nAccording to Alexander, crime and punishment are poorly correlated, and the present US criminal justice system has effectively become a system of social control unparalleled in world history, with its targets largely defined by race. The rate of incarceration in the US has soared, while its crime rates have generally remained similar to those of other Western countries, where incarceration rates have remained stable. The current rate of incarceration in the US is six to ten times greater than in other industrialized nations, and Alexander maintains that this disparity is not correlated to the fluctuation of crime rates, but can be traced mostly to the artificially invoked War on Drugs and its associated discriminatory policies. The US embarked on an unprecedented expansion of its juvenile detention and prison systems.\n\nAlexander notes that the civil rights community has been reluctant to get involved in this issue, concentrating primarily on protecting affirmative action gains, which mainly benefit an elite group of high-achieving African Americans. At the other end of the social spectrum are the young black men who are under active control of the criminal justice system (currently in prison, or on parole or probation)—approximately one-third of the young black men in the US. Criminal justice was not listed as a top priority of the Leadership Conference on Civil Rights in 2007 and 2008, or of the Congressional Black Caucus in 2009. The National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP) and the American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU) have been involved in legal action, and grassroots campaigns have been organized, however Alexander feels that generally there is a lack of appreciation of the enormity of the crisis. According to her, mass incarceration is \"the most damaging manifestation of the backlash against the Civil Rights Movement\", and those who feel that the election of Barack Obama represents the ultimate \"triumph over race\", and that race no longer matters, are dangerously misguided.\n\nAlexander writes that Americans are ashamed of their racial history, and therefore avoid talking about race, or even class, so the terms used in her book may seem unfamiliar to many. Americans want to believe that everybody is capable of upward mobility, given enough effort on his or her part; this assumption forms a part of the national collective self-image. Alexander points out that a large percentage of African Americans are hindered by the discriminatory practices of an ostensibly colorblind criminal justice system, which end up creating an undercaste where upward mobility is severely constrained.\n\nAlexander believes that the existence of the \"New Jim Crow\" system is not disproved by the election of Barack Obama and other examples of exceptional achievement among African Americans, but on the contrary the \"New Jim Crow\" system depends on such exceptionalism. She contends that the system does not require overt racial hostility or bigotry on the part of another racial group or groups. Indifference is sufficient to support the system. Alexander argues that the system reflects an underlying racial ideology and will not be significantly disturbed by half-measures such as laws mandating shorter prison sentences. Like its predecessors, the new system of racial control has been largely immune from legal challenge. She writes that a human tragedy is unfolding under our watch, and \"The New Jim Crow\" is intended to stimulate a much-needed national discussion \"about the role of the criminal justice system in creating and perpetuating racial hierarchy in the United States\".\n\n\nDarryl Pinckney, writing in the \"New York Review of Books\", called the book one that would \"touch the public and educate social commentators, policymakers, and politicians about a glaring wrong that we have been living with that we also somehow don't know how to face... [Alexander] is not the first to offer this bitter analysis, but NJC is striking in the intelligence of her ideas, her powers of summary, and the force of her writing\".\n\nJennifer Schuessler, writing in the \"New York Times\", notes that Alexander presents voluminous evidence in the form of both statistics and legal cases to argue that the tough-on-crime policies begun under the Nixon administration and amplified under Reagan's war on drugs have devastated black America, where nearly one-third of black men are likely to spend time in prison during their lifetimes, and where many of these men will be second-class citizens afterwards. Schuessler also notes that Alexander's book goes further, by asserting that the increase in incarceration was a deliberate effort to roll back civil rights gains, rather than a true response to increased rates of violent crime. Schuessler notes that the book has galvanized both black and white readers, some of whom view the work as giving voice to deep feelings that the criminal justice system is stacked against blacks, while others might question its portrayal of anti-crime policies as primarily motivated by racial animus.\n\nForbes wrote that Alexander \"looks in detail at what economists usually miss\", and \"does a fine job of truth-telling, pointing the finger where it rightly should be pointed: at all of us, liberal and conservative, white and black\".\n\nThe book received a starred review in \"Publishers Weekly\", saying that Alexander \"offers an acute analysis of the effect of mass incarceration upon former inmates\" who will be legally discriminated against for the rest of their lives, and described the book as \"carefully researched, deeply engaging, and thoroughly readable\".\n\nJames Forman, Jr argues that though the book has value in focusing scholars (and society as a whole) on the failures of the criminal justice system, it obscures African-American support for tougher crime laws and downplays the role of violent crime in the story of incarceration.\n\nJohn Pfaff, in his book \"\", criticizes Alexander's assertion that the Drug War is responsible for mass incarceration. Among his findings are that drug offenders make up only a small part of the prison population, and non-violent drug offenders an even smaller portion; that people convicted of violent crimes make up the majority of prisoners; that county and state justice systems account for the large majority of American prisoners and not the federal system that handles most drug cases; and, subsequently, \"national\" statistics tell a distorted story when differences in enforcement, conviction, and sentencing are widely disparate between states and counties. The Brookings Institution reconciles the differences between Alexander and Pfaff by explaining two ways to look at the prison population as it relates to drug crimes, concluding \"The picture is clear: Drug crimes have been the predominant reason for new admissions into state and federal prisons in recent decades\" and \"rolling back the war on drugs would not, as Pfaff and Urban Institute scholars maintain, totally solve the problem of mass incarceration, but it could help a great deal, by reducing exposure to prison.\"\n\n\n\"a.\"The persistently lingering result of the lack of land reform, of the fact that the former slaves were not granted any of the property on which they had long labored (unlike many European serfs, emancipated and economically empowered to various degrees by that time, their American counterparts ended up with nothing), is the present extremely inequitable distribution of wealth in the United States along racial lines. 150 years after the Civil War, the median wealth of a black family is a small fraction of the median wealth of a white family.\n\n\"b.\"According to Ruth W. Grant of Duke University, the author of the book \"Strings Attached: Untangling the Ethics of Incentives\" (Princeton University Press 2011, ), the expediency-based plea bargain process, in which 90 to 95% of felony prosecutions never go to trial, but are settled by the defendant pleading guilty, undermines the purpose and challenges the legitimacy of the justice system. Justice won't take place, because \"either the defendant is guilty, but gets off easy by copping a plea, or the defendant is innocent but pleads guilty to avoid the risk of greater punishment\". The question of guilt is decided without adjudicating the evidence-the fundamental process of determining the truth and assigning proportionate punishment does not take place.\n\n\"c.\"Michelle Alexander suggested in a March 2012 \"New York Times\" article a possible strategy (she attributed the idea to Susan Burton) for coping with the unjust criminal justice system. If large numbers of the accused could be persuaded to opt out of plea bargaining and demand a full trial by jury, to which they are constitutionally entitled, the criminal justice system in its present form would be unable to continue because of lack of resources (it would \"crash\"). This last resort strategy is controversial, as some would end up with extremely harsh sentences, but, it is argued, progress often cannot be made without sacrifice.\n\n"}
{"id": "101521", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101521", "title": "The Prince", "text": "The Prince\n\nThe Prince ( ) is a 16th-century political treatise by the Italian diplomat and political theorist Niccolò Machiavelli. From correspondence a version appears to have been distributed in 1513, using a Latin title, \"De Principatibus\" (\"Of Principalities\"). However, the printed version was not published until 1532, five years after Machiavelli's death. This was done with the permission of the Medici pope Clement VII, but \"long before then, in fact since the first appearance of \"The Prince\" in manuscript, controversy had swirled about his writings\".\n\nAlthough it was written as if it were a traditional work in the \"mirrors for princes\" style, it is generally agreed that it was especially innovative. This is only partly because it was written in the vernacular Italian rather than Latin, a practice which had become increasingly popular since the publication of Dante's \"Divine Comedy\" and other works of Renaissance literature.\n\n\"The Prince\" is sometimes claimed to be one of the first works of modern philosophy, especially modern political philosophy, in which the effective truth is taken to be more important than any abstract ideal. It was also in direct conflict with the dominant Catholic and scholastic doctrines of the time concerning politics and ethics.\n\nAlthough it is relatively short, the treatise is the most remembered of Machiavelli's works and the one most responsible for bringing the word \"Machiavellian\" into usage as a pejorative. It even contributed to the modern negative connotations of the words \"politics\" and \"politician\" in western countries. In terms of subject matter it overlaps with the much longer \"Discourses on Livy\", which was written a few years later. In its use of near-contemporary Italians as examples of people who perpetrated criminal deeds for politics, another lesser-known work by Machiavelli which \"The Prince\" has been compared to is the \"Life of Castruccio Castracani\".\n\nThe descriptions within \"The Prince\" have the general theme of accepting that the aims of princes – such as glory and survival – can justify the use of immoral means to achieve those ends:\nEach part of \"The Prince\" has been commented on over centuries. The work has a recognizable structure, for the most part indicated by the author himself. It can be summarized as follows:\n\n\"The Prince\" starts by describing the subject matter it will handle. In the first sentence Machiavelli uses the word \"state\" (Italian \"stato\" which could also mean \"status\") in order to neutrally cover \"all forms of organization of supreme political power, whether republican or princely\". The way in which the word state came to acquire this modern type of meaning during the Renaissance has been the subject of many academic discussions, with this sentence and similar ones in the works of Machiavelli being considered particularly important.\n\nMachiavelli said that \"The Prince\" would be about princedoms, mentioning that he has written about republics elsewhere (possibly referring to the \"Discourses on Livy\" although this is debated), but in fact he mixes discussion of republics into this in many places, effectively treating republics as a type of princedom also, and one with many strengths. More importantly, and less traditionally, he distinguishes new princedoms from hereditary established princedoms. He deals with hereditary princedoms quickly in Chapter 2, saying that they are much easier to rule. For such a prince, \"unless extraordinary vices cause him to be hated, it is reasonable to expect that his subjects will be naturally well disposed towards him\". , comparing this to traditional presentations of advice for princes, wrote that the novelty in chapters 1 and 2 is the \"deliberate purpose of dealing with a new ruler who will need to establish himself in defiance of custom\". Normally, these types of works were addressed only to hereditary princes. He thinks Machiavelli may have been influenced by Tacitus as well as his own experience, but finds no clear predecessor for this.\n\nThis categorization of regime types is also \"un-Aristotelian\" and apparently simpler than the traditional one found for example in Aristotle's \"Politics\", which divides regimes into those ruled by a single monarch, an oligarchy, or by the people, in a democracy. He also ignores the classical distinctions between the good and corrupt forms, for example between monarchy and tyranny.\n\nXenophon, on the other hand, made exactly the same distinction between types of rulers in the beginning of his \"Education of Cyrus\" where he says that, concerning the knowledge of how to rule human beings, Cyrus the Great, his exemplary prince, was very different \"from all other kings, both those who have inherited their thrones from their fathers and those who have gained their crowns by their own efforts\".\n\nMachiavelli divides the subject of new states into two types, \"mixed\" cases and purely new states.\n\nNew princedoms are either totally new, or they are “mixed” meaning that they are new parts of an older state, already belonging to that prince.\n\nMachiavelli generalizes that there were several virtuous Roman ways to hold a newly acquired province, using a republic as an example of how new princes can act:\n\nMore generally, Machiavelli emphasizes that one should have regard not only for present problems but also for the future ones. One should not “enjoy the benefit of time” but rather the benefit of one's virtue and prudence, because time can bring evil as well as good.\n\nIn some cases the old king of the conquered kingdom depended on his lords. 16th century France, or in other words France as it was at the time of writing of \"The Prince\", is given by Machiavelli as an example of such a kingdom. These are easy to enter but difficult to hold.\n\nWhen the kingdom revolves around the king, with everyone else his servant, then it is difficult to enter but easy to hold. The solution is to eliminate the old bloodline of the prince. Machiavelli used the Persian empire of Darius III, conquered by Alexander the Great, to illustrate this point and then noted that the Medici, if they think about it, will find this historical example similar to the \"kingdom of the Turk\" (Ottoman Empire) in their time – making this a potentially easier conquest to hold than France would be.\n\n notes that this chapter is quite atypical of any previous books for princes. Gilbert supposed the need to discuss conquering free republics is linked to Machiavelli's project to unite Italy, which contained some free republics. As he also notes, the chapter in any case makes it clear that holding such a state is highly difficult for a prince. Machiavelli gives three options:\n\nPrinces who rise to power through their own skill and resources (their \"virtue\") rather than luck tend to have a hard time rising to the top, but once they reach the top they are very secure in their position. This is because they effectively crush their opponents and earn great respect from everyone else. Because they are strong and more self-sufficient, they have to make fewer compromises with their allies.\n\nMachiavelli writes that reforming an existing order is one of the most dangerous and difficult things a prince can do. Part of the reason is that people are naturally resistant to change and reform. Those who benefited from the old order will resist change very fiercely. By contrast, those who can benefit from the new order will be less fierce in their support, because the new order is unfamiliar and they are not certain it will live up to its promises. Moreover, it is impossible for the prince to satisfy everybody's expectations. Inevitably, he will disappoint some of his followers. Therefore, a prince must have the means to force his supporters to keep supporting him even when they start having second thoughts, otherwise he will lose his power. Only armed prophets, like Moses, succeed in bringing lasting change. Machiavelli claims that Moses killed uncountable numbers of his own people in order to enforce his will.\n\nMachiavelli was not the first thinker to notice this pattern. Allan Gilbert wrote: \"In wishing new laws and yet seeing danger in them Machiavelli was not himself an innovator,\" because this idea was traditional and could be found in Aristotle's writings. But Machiavelli went much further than any other author in his emphasis on this aim, and Gilbert associates Machiavelli's emphasis upon such drastic aims with the level of corruption to be found in Italy.\n\nAccording to Machiavelli, when a prince comes to power through luck or the blessings of powerful figures within the regime, he typically has an easy time gaining power but a hard time keeping it thereafter, because his power is dependent on his benefactors' goodwill. He does not command the loyalty of the armies and officials that maintain his authority, and these can be withdrawn from him at a whim. Having risen the easy way, it is not even certain such a prince has the skill and strength to stand on his own feet.\n\nThis is not necessarily true in every case. Machiavelli cites Cesare Borgia as an example of a lucky prince who escaped this pattern. Through cunning political manoeuvrers, he managed to secure his power base. Cesare was made commander of the papal armies by his father, Pope Alexander VI, but was also heavily dependent on mercenary armies loyal to the Orsini brothers and the support of the French king. Borgia won over the allegiance of the Orsini brothers' followers with better pay and prestigious government posts. When some of his mercenary captains started to plot against him, he had them imprisoned and executed. When it looked as though the king of France would abandon him, Borgia sought new alliances.\n\nFinally, Machiavelli makes a point that bringing new benefits to a conquered people will not be enough to cancel the memory of old injuries, an idea Allan Gilbert said can be found in Tacitus and Seneca the Younger.\n\nConquests by \"criminal virtue\" are ones in which the new prince secures his power through cruel, immoral deeds, such as the execution of political rivals. Machiavelli advises that a prince should carefully calculate all the wicked deeds he needs to do to secure his power, and then execute them all in one stroke, such that he need not commit any more wickedness for the rest of his reign. In this way, his subjects will slowly forget his cruel deeds and his reputation can recover. Princes who fail to do this, who hesitate in their ruthlessness, find that their problems mushroom over time and they are forced to commit wicked deeds throughout their reign. Thus they continuously mar their reputations and alienate their people.\n\nMachiavelli's case study is Agathocles of Syracuse. After Agathocles became Praetor of Syracuse, he called a meeting of the city's elite. At his signal, his soldiers killed all the senators and the wealthiest citizens, completely destroying the old oligarchy. He declared himself ruler with no opposition. So secure was his power that he could afford to absent himself to go off on military campaigns in Africa.\n\nHowever, Machiavelli then strongly rebukes Agathocles, stating, \"Yet one cannot call it virtue to kill one's citizens, betray one's friends, to be without faith, without mercy, without religion; these modes can enable one to acquire empire, but not glory. [...] Nonetheless, his savage cruelty and inhumanity, together with his infinite crimes, do not permit him to be celebrated among the most excellent men. Thus, one cannot attribute to fortune or virtue what he achieved without either.\"\n\nA \"civil principality\" is one in which a citizen comes to power \"not through crime or other intolerable violence\", but by the support of his fellow citizens. This, he says, does not require extreme virtue or fortune, only “fortunate astuteness”.\n\nMachiavelli makes an important distinction between two groups that are present in every city, and have very different appetites driving them: the \"great\" and the \"people\". The \"great\" wish to oppress and rule the \"people\", while the \"people\" wish \"not\" to be ruled or oppressed. A principality is not the only outcome possible from these appetites, because it can also lead to either \"liberty\" or \"license\".\n\nA principality is put into place either by the \"great\" or the \"people\" when they have the opportunity to take power, but find resistance from the other side. They assign a leader who can be popular to the people while the great benefit, or a strong authority defending the people against the great. \n\nMachiavelli goes on to say that a prince who obtains power through the support of the nobles has a harder time staying in power than someone who is chosen by the common people; since the former finds himself surrounded by people who consider themselves his equals. He has to resort to malevolent measures to satisfy the nobles. One cannot by fair dealing, and without injury to others, satisfy the nobles, but you can satisfy the people, for their object is more righteous than that of the nobles, the latter wishing to oppress, while the former only desire not to be oppressedAlso a prince cannot afford to keep the common people hostile as they are larger in number while the nobles smaller. \n\nTherefore the great should be made and unmade every day. There are two types of great people that might be encountered:\nHow to win over people depends on circumstances. Machiavelli advises:\n\nThe way to judge the strength of a princedom is to see whether it can defend itself, or whether it needs to depend on allies. This does not just mean that the cities should be prepared and the people trained; a prince who is hated is also exposed.\n\nThis type of \"princedom\" refers for example explicitly to the Catholic church, which is of course not traditionally thought of as a princedom. According to Machiavelli, these are relatively easy to maintain, once founded. They do not need to defend themselves militarily, nor to govern their subjects.\n\nMachiavelli discusses the recent history of the Church as if it were a princedom that was in competition to conquer Italy against other princes. He points to factionalism as a historical weak point in the Church, and points to the recent example of the Borgia family as a better strategy which almost worked. He then explicitly proposes that the Medici are now in a position to try the same thing.\n\nHaving discussed the various types of principalities, Machiavelli turns to the ways a state can attack other territories or defend itself. The two most essential foundations for any state, whether old or new, are sound laws and strong military forces.\nA self-sufficient prince is one who can meet any enemy on the battlefield. He should be \"armed\" with his own arms. However, a prince that relies solely on fortifications or on the help of others and stands on the defensive is not self-sufficient. If he cannot raise a formidable army, but must rely on defense, he must fortify his city. A well-fortified city is unlikely to be attacked, and if it is, most armies cannot endure an extended siege. However, during a siege a virtuous prince will keep the morale of his subjects high while removing all dissenters. Thus, as long as the city is properly defended and has enough supplies, a wise prince can withstand any siege.\n\nMachiavelli stands strongly against the use of mercenaries, and in this he was innovative, and he also had personal experience in Florence. He believes they are useless to a ruler because they are undisciplined, cowardly, and without any loyalty, being motivated only by money. Machiavelli attributes the Italian city states’ weakness to their reliance on mercenary armies.\n\nMachiavelli also warns against using auxiliary forces, troops borrowed from an ally, because if they win, the employer is under their favor and if they lose, he is ruined. Auxiliary forces are more dangerous than mercenary forces because they are united and controlled by capable leaders who may turn against the employer.\n\nThe main concern for a prince should be war, or the preparation thereof, not books. Through war a hereditary prince maintains his power or a private citizen rises to power. Machiavelli advises that a prince must frequently hunt in order to keep his body fit and learn the landscape surrounding his kingdom. Through this, he can best learn how to protect his territory and advance upon others. For intellectual strength, he is advised to study great military men so he may imitate their successes and avoid their mistakes. A prince who is diligent in times of peace will be ready in times of adversity. Machiavelli writes, “thus, when fortune turns against him he will be prepared to resist it.”\n\nEach of the following chapters presents a discussion about a particular virtue or vice that a prince might have, and is therefore structured in a way which appears like traditional advice for a prince. However, the advice is far from traditional.\n\nMachiavelli believes that a prince's main focus should be on perfecting the art of war. He believes that by taking this profession a ruler will be able to protect his kingdom. He claims that \"being disarmed makes you despised.\" He believes that the only way to ensure loyalty from one's soldiers is to understand military matters.\nThe two activities Machiavelli recommends practicing to prepare for war are physical and mental. Physically, he believes rulers should learn the landscape of their territories. Mentally, he encouraged the study of past military events. He also warns against idleness.\n\nBecause, says Machiavelli, he wants to write something useful to those who understand, he thought it more fitting \"to go directly to the effectual truth (\"verità effettuale\") of the thing than to the imagination of it\". This section is one where Machiavelli’s pragmatic ideal can be seen most clearly. The prince should, ideally, be virtuous, but he should be willing and able to abandon those virtues if it becomes necessary. Concerning the behavior of a prince toward his subjects, Machiavelli announces that he will depart from what other writers say, and writes: \nSince there are many possible qualities that a prince can be said to possess, he must not be overly concerned about having all the good ones. Also, a prince may be perceived to be merciful, faithful, humane, frank, and religious, but most important is only to \"seem\" to have these qualities. A \"prince\" cannot truly have these qualities because at times it is \"necessary\" to act against them. In fact, he must sometimes deliberately choose evil. Although a bad reputation should be avoided, it is sometimes necessary to have one.\n\nIf a prince is overly generous to his subjects, Machiavelli asserts he will not be appreciated, and will only cause greed for more. Additionally, being overly generous is not economical, because eventually all resources will be exhausted. This results in higher taxes, and will bring grief upon the prince. Then, if he decides to discontinue or limit his generosity, he will be labeled as a miser. Thus, Machiavelli summarizes that guarding against the people’s hatred is more important than building up a reputation for generosity. A wise prince should be willing to be more reputed a miser than be hated for trying to be too generous.\n\nOn the other hand: \"of what is not yours or your subjects' one can be a bigger giver, as were Cyrus, Caesar, and Alexander, because spending what is someone else's does not take reputation from you but adds it to you; only spending your own hurts you\".\n\nIn addressing the question of whether it is better to be loved or feared, Machiavelli writes, “The answer is that one would like to be both the one and the other; but because it is difficult to combine them, it is far safer to be feared than loved if you cannot be both.” As Machiavelli asserts, commitments made in peace are not always kept in adversity; however, commitments made in fear are kept out of fear. Yet, a prince must ensure that he is not feared to the point of hatred, which is very possible.\n\nThis chapter is possibly the most well-known of the work, and it is important because of the reasoning behind Machiavelli’s famous idea that it is better to be feared than loved – his justification is purely pragmatic; as he notes, “Men worry less about doing an injury to one who makes himself loved than to one who makes himself feared.” Fear is simply a means to an end, and that end is security for the prince. The fear instilled should never be excessive, for that could be dangerous to the prince. Above all, Machiavelli argues, a prince should not interfere with the property of their subjects, their women, or the life of somebody without proper justification.\n\nRegarding the troops of the prince, fear is absolutely necessary to keep a large garrison united and a prince should not mind the thought of cruelty in that regard. For a prince who leads his own army, it is imperative for him to observe cruelty because that is the only way he can command his soldiers' absolute respect. Machiavelli compares two great military leaders: Hannibal and Scipio Africanus. Although Hannibal's army consisted of men of various races, they were never rebellious because they feared their leader. Machiavelli says this required \"inhuman cruelty\" which he refers to as a virtue. Scipio's men, on the other hand, were known for their mutiny and dissension, due to Scipio's \"excessive mercy\" – which was however a source of glory because he lived in a republic.\n\nMachiavelli notes that a prince is praised for keeping his word. However, he also notes that a prince is also praised for the illusion of being reliable in keeping his word. A prince, therefore, should only keep his word when it suits his purposes, but do his utmost to maintain the illusion that he does keep his word and that he is reliable in that regard. Therefore, a prince should not break his word unnecessarily.\n\nAs Machiavelli notes, “He should appear to be compassionate, faithful to his word, guileless, and devout. And indeed he should be so. But his disposition should be such that, if he needs to be the opposite, he knows how.” As noted in chapter 15, the prince must appear to be virtuous, and should be virtuous, but he should be able to be otherwise when the time calls for it; that includes being able to lie, though however much he lies he should always keep the appearance of being truthful.\n\nMachiavelli observes that most men are content as long as they are not deprived of their property and women. A prince should command respect through his conduct, because a prince that is highly respected by his people is unlikely to face internal struggles. Additionally, a prince who does not raise the contempt of the nobles and keeps the people satisfied, Machiavelli assures, should have no fear of conspirators. Machiavelli advises monarchs to have both internal and external fears. Internal fears exist inside his kingdom and focus on his subjects, Machiavelli warns to be suspicious of everyone when hostile attitudes emerge. External fears are of foreign powers.\n\nMachiavelli mentions that placing fortresses in conquered territories, although it sometimes works, often fails. Using fortresses can be a good plan, but Machiavelli says he shall \"blame anyone who, trusting in fortresses, thinks little of being hated by the people\". He cited Caterina Sforza, who used a fortress to defend herself but was eventually betrayed by her people.\n\nA prince truly earns honour by completing great feats. King Ferdinand of Spain is cited by Machiavelli as an example of a monarch who gained esteem by showing his ability through great feats and who, in the name of religion, conquered many territories and kept his subjects occupied so that they had no chance to rebel.\nRegarding two warring states, Machiavelli asserts it is always wiser to choose a side, rather than to be neutral. Machiavelli then provides the following reasons why:\nMachiavelli also notes that it is wise for a prince not to ally with a stronger force unless compelled to do so. In conclusion, the most important virtue is having the wisdom to discern what ventures will come with the most reward and then pursuing them courageously.\n\nThe selection of good servants is reflected directly upon the prince’s intelligence, so if they are loyal, the prince is considered wise; however, when they are otherwise, the prince is open to adverse criticism. Machiavelli asserts that there are three types of intelligence:\n\nIf the prince does not have the first type of intelligence, he should at the very least have the second type. For, as Machiavelli states, “A prince needs to have the discernment to recognize the good or bad in what another says or does even though he has no acumen himself\".\n\nThis chapter displays a low opinion of flatterers; Machiavelli notes that “Men are so happily absorbed in their own affairs and indulge in such self-deception that it is difficult for them not to fall victim to this plague; and some efforts to protect oneself from flatterers involve the risk of becoming despised.” Flatterers were seen as a great danger to a prince, because their flattery could cause him to avoid wise counsel in favor of rash action, but avoiding all advice, flattery or otherwise, was equally bad; a middle road had to be taken. A prudent prince should have a select group of wise counselors to advise him truthfully on matters all the time. All their opinions should be taken into account. Ultimately, the decision should be made by the prince and carried out absolutely. If a prince is given to changing his mind, his reputation will suffer. A prince must have the wisdom to recognize good advice from bad. Machiavelli gives a negative example in Emperor Maximilian I; Maximilian, who was secretive, never consulted others, but once he ordered his plans and met dissent, he immediately changed them.\n\nAfter first mentioning that a new prince can quickly become as respected as a hereditary one, Machiavelli says princes in Italy who had longstanding power and lost it cannot blame bad luck, but should blame their own indolence. One \"should never fall in the belief that you can find someone to pick you up\". They all showed a defect of arms (already discussed) and either had a hostile populace or did not know to secure themselves with the great.\n\nAs pointed out by it was traditional in the genre of Mirrors of Princes to mention fortune, but \"Fortune pervades The Prince as she does no other similar work\". Machiavelli argues that fortune is only the judge of half of our actions and that we have control over the other half with \"sweat\", prudence and virtue. Even more unusual, rather than simply suggesting caution as a prudent way to try to avoid the worst of bad luck, Machiavelli holds that the greatest princes in history tend to be ones who take more risks, and rise to power through their own labour, virtue, prudence, and particularly by their ability to adapt to changing circumstances.\n\nMachiavelli even encourages risk taking as a reaction to risk. In a well-known metaphor, Machiavelli writes that \"it is better to be impetuous than cautious, because fortune is a woman; and it is necessary, if one wants to hold her down, to beat her and strike her down.\" Gilbert (p. 217) points out that Machiavelli's friend the historian and diplomat Francesco Guicciardini expressed similar ideas about fortune.\n\nMachiavelli compares fortune to a torrential river that cannot be easily controlled during flooding season. In periods of calm, however, people can erect dams and levees in order to minimize its impact. Fortune, Machiavelli argues, seems to strike at the places where no resistance is offered, as had recently been the case in Italy. As points out that what Machiavelli actually says is that Italians in his time leave things not just to fortune, but to \"fortune and God\". Machiavelli is indicating in this passage, as in some others in his works, that Christianity itself was making Italians helpless and lazy concerning their own politics, as if they would leave dangerous rivers uncontrolled.\n\nPope Leo X was pope at the time the book was written and a member of the de Medici family. This chapter directly appeals to the Medici to use what has been summarized in order to conquer Italy using Italian armies, following the advice in the book. showed that including such exhortation was not unusual in the genre of books full of advice for princes. But it is unusual that the Medici family's position of Papal power is openly named as something that should be used as a personal power base, as a tool of secular politics. Indeed, one example is the Borgia family's \"recent\" and controversial attempts to use church power in secular politics, often brutally executed. This continues a controversial theme throughout the book.\n\nAs shown by his letter of dedication, Machiavelli's work eventually came to be dedicated to Lorenzo di Piero de' Medici, grandson of \"Lorenzo the Magnificent\", and a member of the ruling Florentine Medici family, whose uncle Giovanni became Pope Leo X in 1513. It is known from his personal correspondence that it was written during 1513, the year after the Medici took control of Florence, and a few months after Machiavelli's arrest, torture, and banishment by the in-coming Medici regime. It was discussed for a long time with Francesco Vettori – a friend of Machiavelli – whom he wanted to pass it and commend it to the Medici. The book had originally been intended for Giuliano di Lorenzo de' Medici, young Lorenzo's uncle, who however died in 1516. It is not certain that the work was ever read by any of the Medici before it was printed. Machiavelli describes the contents as being an un-embellished summary of his knowledge about the nature of princes and \"the actions of great men\", based not only on reading but also, unusually, on real experience.\n\nThe types of political behavior which are discussed with apparent approval by Machiavelli in \"The Prince\" were regarded as shocking by contemporaries, and its immorality is still a subject of serious discussion. Although the work advises princes how to tyrannize, Machiavelli is generally thought to have preferred some form of free republic. Some commentators justify his acceptance of immoral and criminal actions by leaders by arguing that he lived during a time of continuous political conflict and instability in Italy, and that his influence has increased the \"pleasures, equality and freedom\" of many people, loosening the grip of medieval Catholicism's \"classical teleology\", which \"disregarded not only the needs of individuals and the wants of the common man, but stifled innovation, enterprise, and enquiry into cause and effect relationships that now allow us to control nature\".\n\nOn the other hand, notes that \"even if we were forced to grant that Machiavelli was essentially a patriot or a scientist, we would not be forced to deny that he was a teacher of evil\". Furthermore, Machiavelli \"was too thoughtful not to know what he was doing and too generous not to admit it to his reasonable friends\".\n\nMachiavelli emphasized the need for realism, as opposed to idealism. Along with this, he stresses the difference between human-beings and animals since \"there are two ways of contending, one in accordance with the laws, the other by force; the first of which is proper to men, the second to beast\". In \"The Prince\" he does not explain what he thinks the best ethical or political goals are, except the control of one's own fortune, as opposed to waiting to see what chance brings. Machiavelli took it for granted that would-be leaders naturally aim at glory or honour. He associated these goals with a need for \"virtue\" and \"prudence\" in a leader, and saw such virtues as essential to good politics and indeed the common good. That great men should develop and use their virtue and prudence was a traditional theme of advice to Christian princes. And that more virtue meant less reliance on chance was a classically influenced \"humanist commonplace\" in Machiavelli's time, as says, even if it was somewhat controversial. However, Machiavelli went far beyond other authors in his time, who in his opinion left things to fortune, and therefore to bad rulers, because of their Christian beliefs. He used the words \"virtue\" and \"prudence\" to refer to glory-seeking and spirited excellence of character, in strong contrast to the traditional Christian uses of those terms, but more keeping with the original pre-Christian Greek and Roman concepts from which they derived. He encouraged ambition and risk taking. So in another break with tradition, he treated not only stability, but also radical innovation, as possible aims of a prince in a political community. Managing major reforms can show off a Prince's virtue and give him glory. He clearly felt Italy needed major reform in his time, and this opinion of his time is widely shared.\n\nMachiavelli's descriptions encourage leaders to attempt to control their fortune gloriously, to the extreme extent that some situations may call for a fresh \"founding\" (or re-founding) of the \"modes and orders\" that define a community, despite the danger and necessary evil and lawlessness of such a project. Founding a wholly new state, or even a new religion, using injustice and immorality has even been called the chief theme of \"The Prince\". Machiavelli justifies this position by explaining how if \"a prince did not win love he may escape hate\" by personifying injustice and immorality; therefore, he will never loosen his grip since \"fear is held by the apprehension of punishment\" and never diminishes as time goes by. For a political theorist to do this in public was one of Machiavelli's clearest breaks not just with medieval scholasticism, but with the classical tradition of political philosophy, especially the favorite philosopher of Catholicism at the time, Aristotle. This is one of Machiavelli's most lasting influences upon modernity.\n\nNevertheless, Machiavelli was heavily influenced by classical pre-Christian political philosophy. According to Machiavelli refers to Xenophon more than Plato, Aristotle, and Cicero put together. Xenophon wrote one of the classic mirrors of princes, the \"Education of Cyrus\". wrote: \"The Cyrus of Xenophon was a hero to many a literary man of the sixteenth century, but for Machiavelli he lived\". Xenophon also, as Strauss pointed out, wrote a dialogue, \"Hiero\" which showed a wise man dealing sympathetically with a tyrant, coming close to what Machiavelli would do in questioning the ideal of \"the imagined prince\". Xenophon however, like Plato and Aristotle, was a follower of Socrates, and his works show approval of a \"teleological argument\", while Machiavelli rejected such arguments. On this matter, gives evidence that Machiavelli may have seen himself as having learned something from Democritus, Epicurus and classical materialism, which was however not associated with political realism, or even any interest in politics.\n\nOn the topic of rhetoric Machiavelli, in his introduction, stated that “I have not embellished or crammed this book with rounded periods or big, impressive words, or with any blandishment or superfluous decoration of the kind which many are in the habit of using to describe or adorn what they have produced”. This has been interpreted as showing a distancing from traditional rhetoric styles, but there are echoes of classical rhetoric in several areas. In Chapter 18, for example, he uses a metaphor of a lion and a fox, examples of cunning and force; according to , “the Roman author from whom Machiavelli in all likelihood drew the simile of the lion and the fox” was Cicero. The \"Rhetorica ad Herennium\", a work which was believed during Machiavelli’s time to have been written by Cicero, was used widely to teach rhetoric, and it is likely that Machiavelli was familiar with it. Unlike Cicero's more widely accepted works however, according to , “Ad Herennium ... offers a model of an ethical system that not only condones the practice of force and deception but appears to regard them as habitual and indeed germane to political activity”. This makes it an ideal text for Machiavelli to have used.\n\nTo quote :\n\nMachiavelli's ideas on how to accrue honour and power as a leader had a profound impact on political leaders throughout the modern west, helped by the new technology of the printing press. Pole reported that it was spoken of highly by his enemy Thomas Cromwell in England, and had influenced Henry VIII in his turn towards Protestantism, and in his tactics, for example during the Pilgrimage of Grace. A copy was also possessed by the Catholic king and emperor Charles V. In France, after an initially mixed reaction, Machiavelli came to be associated with Catherine de Medici and the St Bartholomew's Day Massacre. As reports, in the 16th century, Catholic writers \"associated Machiavelli with the Protestants, whereas Protestant authors saw him as Italian and Catholic\". In fact, he was apparently influencing both Catholic and Protestant kings.\n\nOne of the most important early works dedicated to criticism of Machiavelli, especially \"The Prince\", was that of the Huguenot, Innocent Gentillet, \"Discourse against Machiavelli\", commonly also referred to as \"Anti Machiavel\", published in Geneva in 1576. He accused Machiavelli of being an atheist and accused politicians of his time by saying that they treated his works as the \"Koran of the courtiers\". Another theme of Gentillet was more in the spirit of Machiavelli himself: he questioned the effectiveness of immoral strategies (just as Machiavelli had himself done, despite also explaining how they could sometimes work). This became the theme of much future political discourse in Europe during the 17th century. This includes the Catholic Counter Reformation writers summarised by Bireley: Giovanni Botero, Justus Lipsius, Carlo Scribani, Adam Contzen, Pedro de Ribadeneira, and Diego Saavedra Fajardo. These authors criticized Machiavelli, but also followed him in many ways. They accepted the need for a prince to be concerned with reputation, and even a need for cunning and deceit, but compared to Machiavelli, and like later modernist writers, they emphasized economic progress much more than the riskier ventures of war. These authors tended to cite Tacitus as their source for realist political advice, rather than Machiavelli, and this pretense came to be known as \"Tacitism\".\n\nModern materialist philosophy developed in the 16th, 17th and 18th century, starting in the generations after Machiavelli. The importance of Machiavelli's realism was noted by many important figures in this endeavor, for example Jean Bodin, Francis Bacon, Harrington, John Milton, Spinoza, Rousseau, Hume, Edward Gibbon, and Adam Smith. Although he was not always mentioned by name as an inspiration, due to his controversy, he is also thought to have been an influence for other major philosophers, such as Montaigne, Descartes, Hobbes, Locke and Montesquieu.\n\nIn literature:\n\nAmongst later political leaders:\n\n20th century Italian-American mobsters were influenced by \"The Prince\". John Gotti and Roy DeMeo would regularly quote \"The Prince\" and consider it to be the\n\"Mafia Bible\".\n\nAs discussed by many authors have historically argued that \"the book is, first and foremost, a satire, so that many of the things we find in it which are morally absurd, specious, and contradictory, are there quite deliberately in order to ridicule ... the very notion of tyrannical rule\". Hence, Johnston says, \"the satire has a firm moral purpose – to expose tyranny and promote republican government.\"\n\nThis position was the standard one in Europe during the 18th century, amongst the Enlightenment \"philosophes\". Diderot thought it was a satire. And in his \"The Social Contract\", the French philosopher Jean-Jacques Rousseau said: \n\nWhether or not the word \"satire\" is the best choice, there is more general agreement that despite seeming to be written for someone wanting to be a monarch, and not the leader of a republic, \"The Prince\" can be read as deliberately emphasizing the benefits of free republics as opposed to monarchies.\n\nDifferences of opinion amongst commentators revolve around whether this sub-text was intended to be understood, let alone understood as deliberately satirical or comic.\n\nOne such commentator, Mary Dietz, writes that Machiavelli's agenda was not to be satirical, as Rousseau had argued, but instead was \"offering carefully crafted advice (such as arming the people) designed to undo the ruler if taken seriously and followed.\" By this account, the aim was to reestablish the republic in Florence. She focuses on three categories in which Machiavelli gives paradoxical advice:\n\nAccording to Dietz the trap never succeeded because Lorenzo – \"a suspicious prince\" – apparently never read the work of the \"former republican.\"\n\nThe Italian Marxist philosopher Antonio Gramsci argued that Machiavelli's audience for this work was not the classes who already rule (or have \"hegemony\") over the common people, but the common people themselves, trying to establish a new hegemony, and making Machiavelli the first \"Italian Jacobin\".\n\nHans Baron is one of the few major commentators who argues that Machiavelli must have changed his mind dramatically in favour of free republics, after having written \"The Prince\".\n\n\n\n\nTranslations\n\n"}
{"id": "27548536", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27548536", "title": "The Quants", "text": "The Quants\n\nThe Quants is the debut New York Times best selling book by Wall Street journalist Scott Patterson. It was released on February 2, 2010 by Crown Business. The book describes the world of quantitative analysis and the various hedge funds that use the technique. Two years later, Patterson published a follow-up book, \"Dark Pools: High Speed Traders, AI Bandits and the Threat to the Global Financial System\", an investigative journey into the history of high-frequency trading and the spread of artificial intelligence in today’s markets.\n\nPatterson began writing \"The Quants\" in 2008. He was first exposed to the quantitative analysis investment strategies while covering the financial industry for the \"Wall Street Journal\". As he became more acquainted with the players involved, he found that many of the most successful quants knew each other and carried similar eccentricities. Realizing this was a world that the average investor knew little of, Patterson wrote the book to shed light on the strategies, players, and related risks of such trading strategies.\n\nThe introduction to \"The Quants\" describes the real-life, annual, high-stakes poker match between Wall Street's hedge fund managers, comparing their trading styles to their poker strategies. It focuses on, among other things, the 2007 subprime mortgage crisis and how it helped trigger a sudden and massive unwind of complex, highly leveraged quantitative strategies. The book also delves into critical short-comings of many quantitative strategies, such as their tendency to lead to crowded trades and their underestimation of the likelihood of chaotic, volatile moves in the markets.\n\nThe book also delves into the background of the various vanguards of quantitative analysis. It tells the history of \"Beat the Market\" & \"Beat the Dealer\" author Ed Thorp; Peter Muller from Morgan Stanley's hedge fund; Ken Griffin from Chicago's Citadel LLC; James Simons from Renaissance Technologies; Clifford S. Asness and Aaron Brown from AQR Capital Management; and Boaz Weinstein from Deutsche Bank.\n\n\"The Quants\" debuted on \"The New York Times\" bestseller list. Jon Stewart featured Patterson as a guest on \"The Daily Show\" and described the book as \"unbelievable.\" Patterson was a guest on NPR, and Ed Thorp, one of the book's main characters, joined Patterson for a live interview. \"The New York Times\" profiled the book, calling it \"fascinating and deeply disturbing.\" \"The Quants\" received additional profiles in Bloomberg, BusinessWeek, Scientific American, Financial Times, and Minyanville.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41030715", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41030715", "title": "Turkic Languages (journal)", "text": "Turkic Languages (journal)\n\nTurkic Languages is a peer-reviewed biannual academic journal published by Harrassowitz. The journal covers research on all aspects of linguistics concerning Turkic languages.\n\n\"Turkic Languages\" was launched in 1997. The journal is published biannually by Harrassowitz. Its publication is supported by Deutsche Forschungsgemeinschaft (DFG; \"German Research Foundation\" in English). The editor-in-chief of the journal is Lars Johanson, professor of Turcology at the University of Mainz.\n\nThe journal includes contributions on linguistic studies of Turkic languages. In addition, it also publishes review articles, reviews, discussions, reports, and news on recent publications in linguistics. The issues from 1997 to 2010 were digitized by DFG.\n\n"}
{"id": "216537", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=216537", "title": "U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement", "text": "U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement\n\nThe U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) is a law enforcement agency of the federal government of the United States tasked to enforce the immigration laws of the United States and to investigate criminal and terrorist activity of foreign nationals residing in the United States. ICE has two primary components: Homeland Security Investigations (HSI) and Enforcement and Removal Operations (ERO).\n\nICE is a federal agency under the jurisdiction of the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) charged with the investigation and enforcement of over 400 federal statutes within the United States and also maintains attachés at major U.S. diplomatic missions overseas. ICE does not patrol American borders; rather, that role is performed by the United States Border Patrol, a unit of U.S. Customs and Border Protection, which is a sister agency of ICE. The former Acting Director of ICE, Thomas Homan, was replaced by Deputy Director Ronald Vitiello on June 30, 2018.\n\nU.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement was formed pursuant to the Homeland Security Act of 2002, following the events of September 11, 2001. With the establishment of the Department of Homeland Security, the functions and jurisdictions of several border and revenue enforcement agencies were combined and consolidated into U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement. Consequently, ICE is the largest investigative arm of the Department of Homeland Security, and the second largest contributor to the nation's Joint Terrorism Task Force.\n\nThe agencies that were either moved entirely or merged in part into ICE included the investigative and intelligence resources of the United States Customs Service, the criminal investigative, detention and deportation resources of the Immigration and Naturalization Service, and the Federal Protective Service. The Federal Protective Service was later transferred from ICE to the National Protection and Programs Directorate effective October 28, 2009. In 2003, Asa Hutchinson moved the Federal Air Marshals Service from the Transportation Security Administration (TSA) to ICE, but Michael Chertoff moved them back to the TSA in 2005.\n\nU.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement is responsible for identifying and eliminating border, economic, transportation, and infrastructure security vulnerabilities. There is an estimate of about more than 20,000 ICE employees in approximately over 400 offices within the United States and 46 other countries.\n\nThe organization is composed of two law enforcement directorates and several support divisions each headed by a director who reports to an Executive Associate Director. The divisions of ICE provide investigation, interdiction and security services to the public and other law enforcement partners in the federal and local sectors.\n\nThe Director of ICE is appointed at the sub-cabinet level by the President of the United States, confirmed by the U.S. Senate, and reports directly to the Secretary of Homeland Security.\n\n\nHSI special agents investigate a range of issues that threaten the national security of the United States such as human rights violations, human smuggling, art theft, human trafficking, drug trafficking, arms trafficking, document and benefit fraud, the manufacturing and sale of counterfeit immigration and identity documents, transnational gangs, financial crimes including money laundering and bulk cash smuggling, trade-based money laundering (including trade finance and Kimberley Process investigations), computer crimes, including the production and transportation of child pornography via the Internet, import/export enforcement, trafficking of counterfeit pharmaceuticals and other merchandise, and international Cultural Property and Antiquities crimes. HSI agents can be requested to provide security for VIPs, and also augment the U.S. Secret Service during overtaxed times such as special security events and elections.\n\nHSI was formerly known as the ICE Office of Investigations (OI). HSI agents have the statutory authority to enforce the Immigration and Nationality Act (Title 8), U.S. customs laws (Title 19), general federal crimes (Title 18), the Controlled Substances Act (Title 21), as well as Titles 5, 6, 12, 22, 26, 28, 31, 46, 49, and 50 of the U.S. Code. HSI has more than 6,500 special agents, making it the largest investigative entity in the Department of Homeland Security and the second largest in the federal government.\n\nThe Office of Intelligence is a subcomponent of HSI that employs a variety of special agents and Intelligence Research Specialists to facilitate HSI's tactical and strategic intelligence demands. Collectively, these intelligence professionals collect, analyze, and disseminate intelligence for use by the operational elements of DHS. The Office of Intelligence works closely with the intelligence components of other federal, state, and local agencies. Many HSI field offices assign intelligence analysts to specific groups, such as financial crimes, counter-proliferation, narcotics, or document fraud; or, alternatively, they can be assigned to a residential intelligence unit, known as a Field Intelligence Group (FIG). HSI agents assigned to FIGs generally focus on Human Intelligence (HUMINT) collection.\n\nInternational Operations, formerly known as the Office of International Affairs (OIA), is a subcomponent of HSI with agents stationed in 60 locations around the world. HSI's foreign offices, known as Attaché Offices, work with foreign governments to identify and combat transnational criminal organizations before they threaten the United States. IO also facilitates domestic HSI investigations by providing intelligence from host countries, conducting collateral investigations, and facilitating international investigations conducted by field offices within the United States.\n\nSeventeen HSI field offices maintain a Special Response Team (SRT) that operates as a federal SWAT element for the office's area of responsibility (AOR). SRT was founded under the U.S. Customs Service as the Warrant Entry and Tactical Team (WETT) and were renamed to SRT in 1998. The SRT handle HSI's high-risk arrest and search warrants, barricaded subjects, rural area operations, VIP protection, sniper coverage for high-risk operations, and security for National Security Events. HSI's active SRTs are located in Tampa, Miami, Arizona (Phoenix), New Orleans, Houston, New York, Boston, Dallas, Los Angeles, San Antonio, San Juan, Detroit, San Francisco, El Paso, Chicago, San Diego and Washington, D.C. There is also a team of instructors and coordinators stationed full-time in Columbus, Georgia. These teams primarily deploy to handle high-risk operations, but also assist in events such as Hurricane Katrina, the Haiti earthquake 2010, and other natural disasters around the globe.\n\nSRT is a collateral duty open to HSI agents assigned to an office with a certified team. To qualify, candidates must pass a physical fitness test, qualify with multiple firearms by shooting 90% or better in full tactical gear, and pass an oral interview process. If a candidate passes these stages and is voted on the local team, they are then designated \"Green Team\" members and allowed to train with the certified team members. Green Team members are eventually sent to the SRT Initial Certification Course at the Office of Firearms and Tactical Programs, Tactical Operations Unit (OFTP/TOU)Fort Benning, Georgia, where they must pass additional physical fitness, firearms, scenario-based and written assessments. Out of approximately 6,500 special agents, there are currently only approximately 250 certified SRT members nationwide.\n\nHSI SRTs often conduct training exercises with various federal, state and local teams, and also assist other teams during national events or large-scale operations that require multiple high-risk scenarios to be conducted simultaneously. The working relationship between the SRTs and the U.S. Department of Defense's U.S. Special Operations Command has led to SOCOM providing the SRTs with excess Mine Resistant Ambush Protected Vehicles (MRAPs), firearms, and other gear designed for the U.S. Tier One groups.\n\nERO is responsible for enforcing the nation's immigration laws and ensuring the departure of removable immigrants from the United States. ERO uses its deportation officers to identify, arrest, and remove immigrants who violate U.S. immigration law. Deportation officers are responsible for the transportation and detention of immigrants in ICE custody to include the removal of immigrants to their country of origin. Deportation officers prosecute immigrants for violations of U.S. immigration and criminal law, monitor cases during deportation proceedings, supervise released immigrants, and remove immigrants from the United States. Deportation officers operate strategically placed Fugitive Operations Teams whose function is to locate, apprehend, and remove immigrants who have absconded from immigration proceedings and remain in the United States with outstanding warrants for deportation. ERO manages the Secure Communities program which identifies removable immigrants located in jails and prisons. Fingerprints submitted as part of the normal criminal arrest and booking process will automatically check both the Integrated Automatic Fingerprint Identification System (IAFIS) of the FBI's Criminal Justice Information Services (CJIS) Division and the Automated Biometric Identification System (IDENT) of the Department of Homeland Security's US-VISIT Program.\n\nERO was formerly known as the Office of Detention and Removal Operations (DRO).\n\nOSLTC is ICE's primary outreach and communications component for state, local and tribal stakeholders. It is responsible for building and improving relationships, and coordinating activities with state, local, territorial, and tribal law enforcement agencies and through public engagement. It also fosters and sustains relationships with federal, state and local government officials and coordinates ICE ACCESS programs (Agreements of Cooperation in Communities to Enhance Safety and Security).\n\nOPLA provides legal advice, training and services to support the ICE mission and defends the interests of the United States in the administrative and federal courts, including representing the government of foreign nationals for the purpose of removal (previously known as \"deportation\") process.\n\nOPR is responsible for investigating allegations of misconduct involving employees of ICE. OPR preserves the organizational integrity of U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement by impartially, independently and thoroughly investigating allegations of criminal or serious administrative misconduct by ICE employees worldwide. Additionally, OPR inspects and reviews ICE offices, operations and processes so as to provide executive management with independent reviews of the agency's organizational health. In this role, OPR assesses the effectiveness and efficiency of ICE in carrying out its mission.\n\nThe Federal Air Marshal Service (FAMS) was aligned into ICE shortly after the creation of the Department of Homeland Security. On October 16, 2005, Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff officially approved the transfer of the Federal Air Marshal Service from the Bureau of Immigration & Customs Enforcement (ICE) to the TSA as part of a broader departmental reorganization to align functions consistent with the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) \"Second Stage Review\" findings for:\n\n\nAs part of this realignment, the Director of the Federal Air Marshal Service also became the Assistant Administrator for the TSA Office of Law Enforcement (OLE), which houses nearly all TSA law enforcement services.\n\nThe Federal Protective Service (FPS) was moved from the General Services Administration (GSA) to ICE upon the creation of the Department of Homeland Security (DHS). The FPS was later moved out of ICE to the National Protection Programs Directorate.\n\nOriginally a part of the U.S. Customs Service's Office of Investigations, the Office of Air and Marine (then called the Air and Marine Interdiction Division) was transferred to ICE in 2003 during the creation of the Department of Homeland Security, becoming the Office of Air and Marine Operations. Due in part to a 500 million dollar budgetary dispute between CBP and ICE, in 2004 ICE Air and Marine Operations was transferred to U.S. Customs and Border Protection. CBP Air and Marine still works closely with ICE to support the agency's domestic and international law enforcement operations.\n\nThe Office of Detention Policy and Planning was responsible developing and maintaining ICE's National Detention Standards, which set out detailed rules for how immigration detainees were to be treated differently than criminal inmates. In April 2017, President Donald Trump decided to close the office and to stop including the standards in new jail contracts.\n\nNewly hired ICE law enforcement personnel receive their training at the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center in Glynco, Georgia. To meet division specific academic and practical instruction, the ICE Academy varies in length from 4 to 6 months depending on the position. Furthermore, following graduation, all ICE law enforcement personnel undergo additional post academy training, as well as career-continuous training. Specific course curriculum is kept confidential, but both ERO and HSI new hires undergo training related to basic law enforcement tactics, immigration law, firearms training, emergency response driving, and Constitutional law. HSI agents also receive training regarding U.S. customs law, warrant service, advanced tactics, undercover operations, criminal interrogation, weapons of mass destruction, and other subjects routinely encountered by HSI agents in the field. ERO deportation officers undergo several weeks of intensive Spanish language training prior to graduating.\n\nIn February 2005, ICE began Operation Community Shield, a national law enforcement initiative that targets violent transnational street gangs through the use of ICE's broad law enforcement powers, including the unique and powerful authority to remove criminal immigrants, including illegal immigrants and legal permanent residents.\n\n\nImmigration and Nationality Act Section 287(g) allows ICE to establish increased cooperation and communication with state, and local law enforcement agencies. Section 287(g) authorizes the Secretary of Homeland Security to enter into agreements with state and local law enforcement agencies, permitting designated officers to perform immigration law enforcement functions, pursuant to a Memorandum of Agreement (MOA), provided that the local law enforcement officers receive appropriate training and function under the supervision of sworn U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement officers. Under 287(g), ICE provides state and local law enforcement with the training and subsequent authorization to identify, process, and when appropriate, detain immigration offenders they encounter during their regular, daily law-enforcement activity.\n\nThe 287(g) program is extremely controversial; it has been widely criticized for increasing racial profiling by police and undermining community safety because unlawful immigrant communities are no longer willing to report crimes or talk to law enforcement.\n\nThe 287(g) program is one of several ICE ACCESS (ICE \"Agreements of Cooperation in Communities to Enhance Safety and Security\") programs that increase collaboration between local law enforcement and immigration enforcement agents.\n\nICE has played a key role in investigating and arresting citizens suspected of possessing and distributing child pornography. Because the vast majority of child pornography is produced outside the United States, HSI special agents utilize their authority to investigate persons and groups that traffic in this type of contraband, the importation of which via traditional mail or internet channels constitute violations of customs laws.\n\nICE operates detention centers throughout the United States that detain undocumented immigrants who are apprehended and placed into removal proceedings. About 34,000 people are held in immigration detention on any given day, in over 500 detention centers, jails, and prisons nationwide.\nDue to the United States detention bed quota, mandated by congress, that number will increase rather than decrease. \nThe quota mandates at least 34,000 beds available for immigrants on any given day.\n\nIn 2006, the T. Don Hutto Residential Center opened specifically to house non-criminal families. Other significant facilities are located in Lumpkin, Georgia; Austin, Texas; Elizabeth, New Jersey; Oakdale, Louisiana; Florence, Arizona; Miami, Florida; Seattle; York, Pennsylvania; Batavia, New York; Aurora, Colorado; Aguadilla, Puerto Rico, and all along the Texas–Mexico border.\n\nFrom October 2003 to 2007, a total of 107 deaths occurred in ICE detention centers. In January 2010, \"The New York Times\" and the American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU) obtained documents detailing the circumstances of these deaths, under the Freedom of Information Act. \"The documents show how officials—some still in key positions—used their role as overseers to cover up evidence of mistreatment, deflect scrutiny by the news media or prepare exculpatory public statements after gathering facts that pointed to substandard care or abuse,\" \"The New York Times\" reported. The deaths in detention included the following cases:\n\nEngineering and construction firm Kellogg, Brown and Root (KBR) released a press statement on January 24, 2006, that the company had been awarded a no-bid contingency contract from the Department of Homeland Security to support its ICE facilities in the event of an emergency. The maximum total value of the contract is $385 million and consists of a one-year base period with four one-year options. KBR held the previous ICE contract from 2000 through 2005. The contract provides for establishing temporary detention and processing capabilities to expand existing ICE Detention and Removal Operations Program facilities in the event of an emergency influx of immigrants into the U.S., or to support the rapid development of new programs. The contract may also provide migrant detention support to other government organizations in the event of an immigration emergency, the company said.\n\nICE Air is the aviation division of ICE that charters aircraft or books commercial flights to send deportees back to their home countries. There are 10 aircraft used to send deportees and has a working list of 185 countries.\n\nDeportees have legs and arms secured while boarding, handcuffs are removed during flight and all shackles removed upon disembarking.\n\n\"The Intercept\" published a report by the DHS Office of Inspector General revealing that 1,224 sexual abuse complaints while in immigration custody were filed between January 2010 and June 2017. Contrary to ICE's claims, only 2% of these complaints were investigated.\n\nBetween 2009 and 2016, the Barack Obama administration oversaw the deporting of a record 2.4 million immigrants, earning him the nickname \"Deporter-In-Chief\" by Janet Murguía, the president of National Council of La Raza. According to ICE data, about 40% of those deported by ICE in 2015 had no criminal conviction, while majority of those convicted were guilty of minor charges.\n\nAs part of the 2018 Trump administration's zero tolerance policy, nearly 3,000 minors were separated from their parents while trying to illegally cross the U.S.-Mexico border and placed in detention centers. \"Rolling Stone\" likened these centers to \"prisons\" while \"The Houston Chronicle\" reported that a movement swelled online to call them \"concentration camps.\" Similarly, former First Lady of the United States Laura Bush compared the images of the centers to U.S. Japanese internment camps during the Second World War. 16 out of 34 of the centers located in Texas had previously been cited by Texas officials for more than 150 health violations. The former head of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, John Sandweg, was critical of child separation, telling NBC News, \"You could easily end up in a situation where the gap between a parent's deportation and a child's deportation is years,\" and that many children might never see their parents again.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47681657", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47681657", "title": "What Should Legal Analysis Become?", "text": "What Should Legal Analysis Become?\n\nWhat Should Legal Analysis Become? is a book by philosopher and politician Roberto Mangabeira Unger. First published in 1996, the book germinated from lectures Unger gave at Yale Law School, Columbia Law School, and the London School of Economics. In the book, Unger argues that in order to transform society to be more radically democratic, it is necessary to penetrate the specialized professions so that we can talk about, and imagine, institutions effectively. Unger focuses on the legal profession in this book, setting forth a vision of law as \"institutional imagination.\" He presents a program for changing the nature of the legal profession so that less power is vested in legal professionals and institutions, and legal analysis is reoriented to be more egalitarian and advance more effectively the democratic project.\n\nJeremy Waldron, reviewing \"What Should Legal Analysis Become?\" in the \"Columbia Law Review\", praised the book as an \"eminently readable\" text encompassing many of the same themes that Unger explored in his three-volume \"Politics: A Work in Constructive Social Theory\". Waldron notes that Unger's argument in the book has a negative and a positive side. Waldron finds the negative side of Unger's argument—in which Unger attacks contemporary American legal analysis as \"incapable of contributing to serious social reform\" (as Waldron summarizes the argument)—\"exciting,\" and states that Unger's negative argument \"goes right to the heart of the difficulties about political agency that disfigure modern legal scholarship.\" Waldron finds the positive side of Unger's argument \"somewhat less convincing.\" The positive argument, which contains Unger's exploration of the alternative futures of democracy, Waldron dismisses as \"broad-brush sketching of some rather familiar social-democratic ideals ... [that] might have been produced by any intelligent person on the left.\" Waldron sums up his assessment by stating that \"so far as the positive suggestions are concerned, one is left frustrated by this book. The negative account of mainstream legal analysis is provocative, and the critique of its orientation to the courts is important and timely.\"\n\nRobin Bradley Kar contends that Unger's constructive program in \"What Should Legal Analysis Become?\" is inconsistent with his negative criticisms of contemporary American legal interpretation. In his review of the book in the \"Yale Law Journal\", Kar argued that Unger's criticism of contemporary legal analysis rests on the idea that we should not rest our interpretations of law upon general \"policies of collective welfare and principles of moral and political right,\" because such reliance works to suppress important parts of the democratic compromises that help advance radical democratic aims. But, Kar points out, Unger's constructive, positive program rests on \"similarly general conceptions of democracy and human nature.\" Kar concludes that \"Unger's entire work thus provides us with a useful moral about the dangers inherent in interpreting the law through the lens of theory.\"\n\nLorne Sossin, reviewing the book in the \"University of Toronto Law Journal\", praised \"What Should Legal Analysis Become?\" as a \"provocative and enlightening\" account of \"the myths and contradictions upon which our political and legal institutions rest,\" one that may \"facilitate transforming those institutions into more emancipatory forms.\" Sossin notes that Unger would add \"prophecy\" and \"vision\" to the pursuits of critical theory. Sossin concludes that \"\"What Should Legal Analysis Become?\" is in many ways an illustration of Unger practicing what he preaches—reinventing and recombining ideas and elements of his previous thought into a reinvigorated critique. His analysis never fails to engage, though ... it does leave important questions unanswered.\"\n\nKar, Robin Bradley. \"Legal Analysis and the Perversions of Theory (review of \"What Should Legal Analysis Become?\"), 106 Yale Law Journal 2685 (1997)\n\nSossin, Lorne. \"The Politics of Imagination\" (review of \"What Should Legal Analysis Become?\") 47 University of Toronto Law Journal 523 (1997)\n\nUnger, Roberto Mangabeira. \"What Should Legal Analysis Become?\". Verso Books, 1996.\n\nWaldron, Jeremy. \"Dirty Little Secret\" (review of \"What Should Legal Analysis Become?\"), 98 Columbia Law Review 510 (1998).\n"}
{"id": "7637374", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7637374", "title": "Yale Babylonian Collection", "text": "Yale Babylonian Collection\n\nComprising some 45,000 items, the Yale Babylonian Collection is an independent branch of the Yale University Library housed on the Yale University campus in Sterling Memorial Library at New Haven, Connecticut, United States.\n\nEstablished by the donation of a collection of cuneiform tablets by J. P. Morgan in 1909, the Collection is now home to one of the largest collection of ancient Near Eastern writing in America and ranks among the best repositories of its kind in the world. Beyond the ongoing study and conservation of its own holdings, the Yale Babylonian Collection stands as an important center for innovative research in Assyriology and other related fields.\n\nThe collection is open on weekdays by appointment.\n\n"}
