{"id": "12867349", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12867349", "title": "Abacomancy", "text": "Abacomancy\n\nAbacomancy, also known as \"Amathomancy\" (from the Greek word \"amathos\" meaning sand) a form of divination based on the interpretation of the patterns in dust, dirt, silt, sand, or the ashes of the recently deceased. Reading the patterns is believed to give some insight into the future. Readers drop the dirt, sand, or ashes on a flat surface and start looking for a pattern that may represent symbols or pictures. They interpret these symbols and pictures to what is going to happen in the future. Some look for certain symbols that are seen over and over. Jackson Pollock, renowned painter, was famous for his series of paintings on abacomancy, which focused on the patterns in the paintings he made to foretell the future.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10396436", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10396436", "title": "Acacia salicina", "text": "Acacia salicina\n\nAcacia salicina is a thornless species of \"Acacia\" tree native to Australia.\n\nCommon names include Cooba, Native Willow, Willow Wattle, Broughton Willow,Sally Wattle and Black Wattle.\n\nIt is a large shrub or small evergreen tree growing 3 to 20 m tall. It has a life span of about 10–15 years. In the Northern Hemisphere, \"Acacia salicina\" flowers primarily from October to January and the seed pods are often visible from April to July. The tree's seeds are shiny, black and have a crimson appendage-like aril.\n\"Acacia salicina\" is \"closely related\" to \"Acacia ligulata\" and \"Acacia bivenosa\".\n\n\n\"A. salicina\" is found parts of Eastern Australia. The average yearly precipitation over the entire range is 375-550mm, with the plant itself found growing in regions receiving in excess of 1500mm annually in northern Queensland and as low as 100mm annually in central Australia. Its natural altitude range is from 50-300m above sea level. It does well in full sun exposure and it tolerates frosts down to -6.7 deg. C (-20 deg. F).\n\n\"A. salicina\" can be used to help stabilize riverbanks and other areas.\n\nThe tree's foliage and seed pods are important fodder for livestock during dry periods, since the tree can withstand drought quite well. Its foliage and pods compare quite poorly to other fodders with regard to digestibility by livestock. This affects its available nutritional value. The 1889 book 'The Useful Native Plants of Australia’ records that \"The leaves are eaten by stock. This is another tree which is rapidly becoming scarce, owing to the partiality of stock to it.\"\n\nThe seeds are edible.\n\n\"A. salicina\" is excellent for landscaping in dry areas.\n\nThe bark has a high tannin content.\n\nThe wood is very hard and it is used in making fine furniture. At one time, the tree's wood was used in the manufacture of axles for wagon wheels.\n\"Acacia salicina's\" wood burns nicely and makes good fuel. Its calorific content is 18900kJ/kg dry mass. The tree produces seed and timber for woodworking in as little as five years after planting.\n\nThe bark has been traditionally put to use by Indigenous Australians as a toxin for fishing. The leaves of \"A. salicina\" are thought to be psychoactive, since indigenous Australians \"burn its leaves and smoke the ash to obtain a state of inebriation.\"\n\nThe 1889 book 'The Useful Native Plants of Australia’ records that common names included \"Native Willow\" and \"Broughton Willow\" near the Broughton River in South Australia. It also records it was called \"Cooba\" or \"Kooba\" by Indigenous People in Western New SOuth WAles and \"Motherumba\" by thos on the Castlereagh River, New South Wales.\"\n\nAcacia salicina spreads widely through seed dipersal, and individual trees can rapidly form thickets through production of adventitious shoots from the root system. The species has become a significant weed over some of its native and introduced range\n"}
{"id": "22055708", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22055708", "title": "Allen Brent", "text": "Allen Brent\n\nThe Rev. Prof. Allen Brent is a scholar of early Christian history and literature. He is a Fellow of St Edmund's College, Cambridge, formerly Dean (2012-2013), was an Affiliated Lecturer in the Faculty of Divinity, University of Cambridge in 1998-2010. At present he is Professor in Early Christian History and Iconography at King's College London where he is joint researcher (with Professor Markus Vinzent), on a two year . He is also Professore Invitato at the Augustinianum (Lateran University), Rome. He was formerly Principal Lecturer in Philosophy at University of Huddersfield, and has previously been Professor of History at James Cook University. He was ordained a deacon for the Ordinariate of Our Lady of Walsingham on 28 April 2011 and a priest on 15 June 2011. His webpage is http://www.allenbrent.co.uk.\n\nHe has published widely on prominent early Christian figures such as Hippolytus of Rome, Ignatius of Antioch, and Cyprian. Dr. Brent currently co-edits the Studia patristica with Markus Vinzent.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1653918", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1653918", "title": "Arabist", "text": "Arabist\n\nAn Arabist is someone normally from outside the Arab world who specialises in the study of the Arabic language and culture (usually including Arabic literature).\n\nArabists began in medieval Muslim Spain, which lay on the frontier between the Muslim world and Christendom. At various times, either a Christian or a Muslim kingdom might be the most hospitable toward scholars. Translation of Arabic texts into Latin (mostly of works on mathematics and astronomy) began as early as the 10th century, major works dates from the School of Toledo, which began during the reign of Alfonso VII of Castile, (1105–1157).\n\nTranslations were made into medieval Latin or Church Latin, then Europe's \"lingua franca\", or into medieval Spanish, which was the vernacular language of that time and place. Early translations included works by Avicenna, Al-Ghazali, Avicebron, etc.; books on astronomy, astrology, and medicine; and the works of some of the Ancient Greek philosophers, especially Aristotle, who unlike Plato had previously been relatively unknown and largely ignored in European Christendom. The philosophical translations were accompanied by the Islamic commentaries, e.g., on Al-Ghazali, Ibn Sina (Avicenna), and Ibn Rushd (Averroës), to the point of there being an identifiable Averroist school of philosophy in Christian Europe.\nThis cultural borrowing from the Arab culture enjoyed the strong patronage of Alfonso X of Castile (1221–1284), who commissioned translations of major works into the Latin and the Castilian Spanish of the time. This led to the first Spanish translation of the Qur'an, and of such influential works as \"Kalilah and Dimnah\", \"Libro de los Engannos e Asayamientos de las Mugeres\" (\"Book of the Deceits and Lies of Women\"), the \"Escala de Mahomá\" (\"The Ascension of Mohammed\") and \"Los juegos del ajedrez\" (\"The Games of Chess\").\n\nThe works of Alfonso X in history and astronomy drew on numerous elements of Muslim knowledge. Also, the \"Tales of Count Lucanor\", by Juan Manuel and \"El Libro de buen amor\" (\"The Book of Good Love\") by Arcipreste de Hita from this period both show an interpenetration and symbiosis of Oriental and Spanish cultures.\n\nWith the Reconquista well under way, Arabist efforts in Spain were sometimes closely tied to the goal of the possibility of proselytizing Christianity in the Arab world.\n\nSpain was so dynamic a center of medieval Arabism as to draw scholars from throughout Christian Europe, notably Gerard of Cremona, Herman of Carinthia, Michael Scotus, and Robert of Ketton. In 1143, Robert of Ketton made the first Latin translation of the Qur'an, at the request of Peter the Venerable, abbot of Cluny. Marcos de Toledo produced another translation of the Qur'an in the 13th century under a mandate from archbishop Rodrigo Ximénez de Rada, who later edited the landmark \"Historia Arabum\" (\"history of the Arabs\"), drawing on the work of al-Razi for the knowledge of al-Andalus prior to the Almoravid conquest.\n\nThis trend continued in the 15th century, with Juan de Segovia's trilingual Qur'an (Arabic, Spanish, and Latin), now lost, and Cardinal Cisneros's multilingual Bible. In the 16th century, Pedro de Alcalá produced his Arabic primers for Spanish speakers, and several histories were written about the previous century's reconquest of the Kingdom of Granada with its aftermath of Moorish uprisings.\n\nAs Arabism was declining in Europe after the Reformation, this was also the case in Spain for like reasons, and due in particular to Mediterranean politics and to the repressive atmosphere created by the Spanish Inquisition. Some Moriscos hesitated to show their knowledge of their mother tongue. In the mid-18th century a new phase of Arabism arose in Spain. Later, in the era of the Generación del 98 Spanish Arabism began to produce widely recognized studies, and thus regained its prominence, particularly regarding such Arabists as Miguel Asín Palacios (1871–1944), and Emilio García Gómez (1905–1995), as well as many others.\n\nIn England, Robert of Chester translated many books from Arabic into Latin during the 12th Century, including works from scholars such as Abu Musa Jabir Ibn Hayyan and Al-Khwarizmi. The Adams Professorship in the Arabic language was established at Cambridge University in England in July 1632. The Laudian Professorship in Arabic was established at Oxford University in 1636.\n\nItaly, France, Germany, and the Netherlands have enjoyed a long and fruitful involvement in the study of the Arabic language and Arab cultures, as well of Islam, with scholars like Levinus Warner and Joseph Scaliger. Many other European countries have also produced scholars who have made notable contributions to the study of the Arabs and Arabic cultures, including Sweden, Czech Republic, Poland, Scotland, Romania, Hungary, Belgium, and Russia. \n\nRichard Francis Burton entered Trinity College, Oxford in autumn 1840, after his family had travelled extensively in Europe (he spoke English, French and Italian). His studies at Oxford included falconry and Arabic.\n\nBurton's time in the Pakistani province of Sindh prepared him well for the transgressive pilgrimage to Mecca and Medina that he undertook in 1853 (he was not a Muslim and non-Muslims are forbidden to enter these holy cities). Seven years in Pakistan had given Burton a familiarity with the customs and behaviour of Muslims. This journey made Burton famous. He had planned it whilst travelling disguised among the Muslims of Sindh, and had laboriously prepared for the ordeal by study and practice (including having himself circumcised to further lower the risk of being discovered).\n\nAlthough Burton was not the first non-Muslim European to make the Hajj (that distinction belonging to Ludovico di Barthema in 1503), his pilgrimage is the most famous and the best documented of the time. He adopted various disguises, including that of a Pathan, to account for any oddities in speech, but he still had to master intricate Islamic ritual, and the minutiae of Eastern manners and etiquette. Burton's trek to Mecca was quite dangerous and his caravan was attacked by bandits (a common experience at the time). As he put it, although \"...neither Koran or Sultan enjoin the death of Jew or Christian intruding within the columns that note the sanctuary limits, nothing could save a European detected by the populace, or one who after pilgrimage declared himself an unbeliever.\" The pilgrimage entitled him to the title of \"Hajji\" and to wear a green turban. Burton's own account of his journey is given in \"Personal Narrative of a Pilgrimage to Al Madinah and Meccah\" (1855).\n\nLady Hester Stanhope, after the death of British Prime Minister William Pitt the Younger, to whom she acted as hostess, took up a life of travel. She spent most of her life in the Middle East and was accepted as Queen of the Bedouin.\n\nGertrude Bell, was an English writer, traveller, political officer, administrator, archaeologist and spy. She played a major role in establishing and helping administer the modern state of Iraq.\n\nSt John Philby was a British colonial office intelligence officer and King Ibn Sa'ud of Saudi Arabia's chief adviser in dealing with the British Empire and Western oil powers\n\nHans Wehr (1909–1981) was a German Arabist, professor at the University of Münster from 1957–1974. Wehr published the \"Arabisches Wörterbuch\" (1952), which was later published in an English edition as \"A Dictionary of Modern Written Arabic\", edited by J. Milton Cowan. As part of this dictionary, Wehr created a transliteration scheme to represent the Arabic alphabet.\n\nSome notable Arabists from the Middle East worth mentioning are Haim Zafrani in Morocco, Ahmad Zaki Pasha in Egypt, Tarif Khalidi in Lebanon, Zvi Elpeleg in Israel, Mehmet Hakkı Suçin in Turkey and William Duff.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27752599", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27752599", "title": "Bahá'í radio", "text": "Bahá'í radio\n\nSince 1977, the international Bahá'í community has established several radio stations worldwide, particularly in the Americas. Programmes may include local news, music, topics related to socio-economic and community development, educational programmes focusing on indigenous language and culture, and Bahá'í introductory and deepening material.\n\nSince the 1960s there has been interest in mass media to promote and support development projects. This was followed by a view that the service of the community was through the participation of the community and spread of information. A series of UNESCO conferences lead to advancing the issues until in 1978 a conference was held in Ecuador. At that conference researchers summarized developments along these lines and noted challenges such projects faced and a few ways such projects failed while also noting that village radio stations seemed to be a nice fit because of the necessary quality of communication in a society. The Bahá'í Radio project in Ecuador served as a means to study the process of the two trends by setting up a community radio station of the community for the community - and may have been the first such project in all Latin America aimed at serving the \"campesinos\" as its primary purpose with development oriented programming. It mixed national music forms with public service features (lost and found, messages to individuals, official communications, but looking to develop more.) The project was studied through faculty from Northwestern University from 1980–1982, and briefly in 1983, and reviewed Bahá'í Radio projects in Peru and Bolivia as well and resulted in a PhD by Kurt John Hein in 1985 following which he took up service at WLGI Radio Bahá'í.\n\nBahá'í Radio in Ecuador evolved as a way to serve the thousands of converts in the late 1960s and 1970s. A native of Otavalo, Ecuador, and chairman of the National Spiritual Assembly investigated using radio as a tool for spreading the religion and serving the newly forming communities. In early 1973 Raul Pavon leased Radio Turismo station and initiated fourteen hours of daily broadcasts. None involved had backgrounding in running a radio station. Initial success was based on playing local and national music genre. However the lease was rescinded and Bahá'í programing was limited to 2 hrs a day while the successful aspect of the programming was carried on. In July 1973 the national assembly added the goal of a radio station to its budget and a committee to create programing. Programming was developed and aired in eight cities between 15 minute segments up to hour-long bilingual (Spanish-Quichua) programs of Bahá'í prayers, and drawing from Bahá'í literature as well as information of its world-wide community. In 1975 training workshops were organized for scriptwriters. Other trainings continued in 1976. By 1976 the committee had produced 1286 hours of programming at a cost of approximately $2000 as well as documentation to support sister projects. Meanwhile, progress in getting a radio station began in 1975 when the aim was develop a short-wave radio station to serve all of Ecuador. The government lost the first submission for a license and the second was rejected. In 1976 revised the request by asking for a low-power AM radio station which was finally granted in 1977 – noting that the government imposed a requirement that the station had to be ready for testing in 90 days from the beginning of construction - the final date to be up and broadcasting turned out to be October 27. Land was bought, a generator put in place, construction of buildings and equipment was gathered or fabricated on the spot. With voluntary services the antenna was raised at a cost of about $900. HCRN-1, Radio Bahá'í del Ecuador, 1420 kHz, did their first test transmission on October 12 with 20 watts of power. Full-time programming (6 hrs/day) began December 12. There were challenges of coordination and staffing to overcome. Outside trainers or professional staff were able to come in 1977, 1978, and 1980. A Commission was developed typically including a body composed of an indigenous person, a \"white\" person, technical experts, senior Bahá'ís and a veteran of the station, with a balance of majority of local people while also one member to be literate and capable of dealing with the administration of the commission.\n\nIt wasn't until 1981 that a suitable director was able to take up service by combining the qualities of being a Bahá'í, an experienced radio professional, and an Ecuadoran and able to volunteer. With regular feedback from experienced institutions operating out of the Bahá'í World Centre progress was maintained and Dr. David Ruhe, then a member of the Universal House of Justice visited in 1980 and acted as liaison between the radio station and the Audio-Visual Department at the Bahá'í administrative offices. In 1980 almost the entire staff traveled to Peru to make extensive presentations to the international Bahá'í media conference in Puno where the second Bahá'í Radio station would be set up. In 1981 Marcelo Quinteros was appointed as the executive director of Radio Bahá'í Ecuador after essentially rising in place while serving at the station for the prior six years. Quinteros originally became involved with the station as a younger brother of a broadcaster who had quit service at Radio Turismo after the way the Bahá'ís had been broken from their lease and in addition to Quinteros six other indigenous had systematically begun to serve at the station as full-time staff as well as larger numbers of part-time staff amounting to some 200 persons including indigenous youth in the first four years of the operation of the station. Indigenous staff were able to conduct workshops for other indigenous staff, in Spanish and Quichua, for the first time in 1981. Staff for projects in Bolivia, Chile and Peru participated in successive training and Ecuadoran staff traveled to Peru and Bolivia to assist in those projects. The Commission wrote to the Chilean Bahá'ís about the development of their radio station that:\n\nThe most important and indispensable thing is to maintain a happy, loving, spirited team-family. Try to have as high a percentage as possible of your staff native. At least 75%. It is far better to let a native do something wrong than not to give him the opportunity by having a foreigner do it.\n\nBy 1983 training of staff at Radio Bahá'í Ecuador was almost entirely in the hands of indigenous staff. There has also been training at the Amoz Gibson Training Center for Bahá'í Media in Puerto Rico operated by CIRBAL (Centro para Intercambio Radiofonico Bahá'í de America Latina.) About 1983 the station was operating 15hrs/day on AM and 4 hrs per day on short-wave and was the dominant cost of the National Spiritual Assembly of Ecuador even though most of its staff are volunteers who receive only a small stipend. Office are in Otavalo and linked with the broadcast cite by microwave links. In addition to offices and studios the main cite houses a community garden plot, and a chosas style building as its meeting hall and hosts regional conferences as well. The main AM broadcast has evolved to 1 kilowatt at 1240 kHz in 1983. The second site maintained for the station is its short-wave broadcast facilities near El Cajas. A furniture store run by non-Bahá'ís acts as the Cayambe regional offices for locals to drop off news and requests for airing on the station.\n\nThe basic programming pattern was 80% local or national music favored by the indigenous population and 20% talking. The music portion presented songs reviewed for content: aimed for the campesinos or not, appropriate for the time played, dignified, harmonious one song to the next, popularity, and explicitly incorporating new releases. Programming changes included discontinuing music viewed as raucous. Instead the station broadcast messages inviting local musicians and groups to be recorded. In less than one year 30 or 40 such groups came forward however the majority of songs were devoted to drinking and infidelity. Instead music gathered from the wider region, and from music festivals, was emphasized. Younger \"white\" youth working at the station wanted to incorporate pop music. Instead a process of moods was emphasized – after morning prayers the music selections were a little sad or sentimental to create a meditative mood, then happy music to inspire people to leave for work upbeat, then in the afternoon music reflecting on family, nostalgia for the home. Initially the talking programming was simple recitation of the Bahá'í literature but by 1981 talking programming included coverage of development projects elsewhere Since its inception the religion has had involvement in socio-economic development beginning by giving greater freedom to women, promulgating the promotion of female education as a priority concern, and that involvement was given practical expression by creating schools, agricultural coops, and clinics. The religion entered a new phase of activity when a message of the Universal House of Justice dated 20 October 1983 was released. Bahá'ís were urged to seek out ways, compatible with the Bahá'í teachings, in which they could become involved in the social and economic development of the communities in which they lived. World-wide in 1979 there were 129 officially recognized Bahá'í socio-economic development projects. By 1987, the number of officially recognized development projects had increased to 1482. In Ecuador the talking programing began to cover news, helping society in a number of ways, and religious programming.\n\nNews programming deliberately covered only local news unless the government required coverage of particular events. Coverage avoided presenting political advertising. In 1978-9 25 reports of lost children resulted in 24 recovered children. The remaining child had been murdered and the station hosted services for the child. A wide range of organizations brought news releases to the station - associations of artisans, cooperatives, firefighters, primary and secondary schools, etc. Lost animals and livestock would be delivered to the station and wait for their owners to come. Outbreaks of diseased would be responded to with informational programming. Programming informing the citizens of the availability of assistance in getting national ID cards for illiterate overwhelmed the local office - this campaign of creating documentation was noted as one of the most successful in Ecuador.\n\nAn attempt was made to bridge the informational releases from the government and the experience of the campesinos - latrines had been dug but the campesinos felt they were too valuable to hold excrement. Through a grant from the National Spiritual Assembly of Canada and the Canadian International Development Agency staff were hired and programming developed to bring feedback from the campesinos to government ministries especially in agriculture. Using a mobile van they interviewed farmers and ministry representatives responding. Imported materials in Spanish were translated into Quichua overcoming problems of language, accent, vocabulary, and format (monologues vs dialogs.) Broader programming was developed in Quichua devoted to cultural program including folklore, festivals, crafts, child-care, nutrition, first aid, hygiene, etc.\n\nReligious programming coverage of Nineteen Day Feasts and Holy Days. In April programs included guidance on election procedures for Bahá'í Local Spiritual Assemblies. And there were devotional and proclamation programing including historical overviews of the Bahá'í Faith.\n\nExtended coverage of public affairs was undertaken of various kinds. At one point Otavalo was officially raised in status to a city - various organizations developed special programing for the event. Various schools produced shows, as well as the local Anthropological Institute. The formal session of the municipal council was recorded and aired. There were other events covered as well: basketball championships, new programs started at a local training school. An annual music festival started with the founding of the radio station. The first annual celebration attracted some 600 people in 1977. By 1979 2000 people attended. In 1980 the festival was extended to three days to include elimination rounds in contests between musicians. In 1981 there were six rounds elimination rounds and the rounds were then decimated to the area villages rather than at the station itself and included visiting groups from Peru, Bolivia and Chile. A children's festival was also initiated. In 1979 75 children performed in front of 1000 people. In 1982, 4000 people attended.\n\nSimilar to the development in Ecuador, the Guaymi Cultural Center in Panama, for example, operates a radio station, holds annual music and dance festivals, an annual children's festival, regional women's' conferences, regular consultations where Guaymi and other indigenous people can consult about their future, and other meetings. It provides training for teachers of the rural secondary curriculum and for adult literacy instructors, assists eleven village schools, and supports local Bahá'í communities in the area by disseminating information on health care, farming, and other development topics.\n\nRadio Bahá’í Bolivia is a service project of the National Spiritual Assembly.\n\n\nThere are also various internet radio programs run by Bahá'ís.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38754950", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38754950", "title": "Brock Bond", "text": "Brock Bond\n\nBrock Lee Bond (born September 11, 1985) is an American former professional baseball player. A second baseman, Bond played in Minor League Baseball. Before playing professionally, Bond played college baseball at the University of Arkansas and the University of Missouri.\n\nBond attended Lindbergh High School in St. Louis, Missouri. Playing quarterback for the school's American football team, Bond was named his conference's offensive player of the year during his senior year. Bond then attended the University of Arkansas, where he played college baseball for the Arkansas Razorbacks baseball team. Bond transferred to the University of Missouri, where he played for the Missouri Tigers baseball team.\n\nThe San Francisco Giants drafted Bond in the 24th round of the 2007 MLB Draft. Some say the selection was a mistake, as the Giants meant to select Casey Bond. The Giants then selected Casey Bond in the 25th round. Bond signed with the Giants and began his professional career with the Arizona League Giants. He was then promoted to the Salem-Keizer Volcanoes of the Class A-Short Season Northwest League in which he hit .342.\n\nBond began the 2008 season with the Augusta GreenJackets of the Class A South Atlantic League in which he hit .333. On the suggestion of Steve Decker, manager of the San Jose Giants of the Class A-Advanced California League, the Giants promoted Bond to San Jose in which he hit .297. He was promoted to Connecticut Defenders of the Class AA Eastern League in 2009. Bond was named to the mid-season and post-season all-star teams and led the league with a .333 batting average and a .429 on-base percentage. He was then promoted to the Fresno Grizzlies of the Class AAA Pacific Coast League (PCL) for the 2010 season, and was named to the PCL all-star game in Lehigh Valley. Bond was named the starting second baseman and was the first batter of the game, in which he grounded out. \n\nBond missed the majority of the 2011 season after suffering a concussion. He played for Fresno in 2012, where he had a .332 batting average and .422 on-base percentage. The Giants invited Bond to spring training in 2013, giving him an opportunity to compete for a roster spot in the majors for the Giants. He hit .435 with two home runs. The Giants sent him to their minor league complex in mid-March. At the end of spring training, Bond won the Harry S. Jordan Award, given to the player in his first spring training whose spirit best exemplifies the Giants. He suffered an oblique injury at the end of spring training and was assigned to San Jose to rehabilitate. He ended up playing in 92 games for San Jose.\n\nAs Bond had been a member of the Giants' organization in minor league baseball for seven seasons, he became a free agent at the end of the 2013 season. The Baltimore Orioles signed him to a minor league contract for the 2014 season. The Winnipeg Goldeyes signed Bond. He had a batting average of .326 and an on base percentage of .448 for the Goldeyes. Bond began the 2015 season with the Arkansas Travelers of the Class AA Texas League, an affiliate of the Los Angeles Angels of Anaheim. He was released on May 31, but signed by the Colorado Rockies and assigned to the Albuquerque Isotopes of the PCL on June 1.\n\nBond's father is a carpenter; he worked on Busch Memorial Stadium.\n\nBond's elder brother is in the United States Air Force, having graduated from the Air Force Academy; his younger brother plays baseball at the University of Missouri.\n\nBrock Bond lives with his girlfriend, Olivia Lopez, a Transcendental Meditation Instructor and Arbonne Wellness Consultant in Orlando, Florida.\n\nBond learned Transcendental Meditation in 2014, while playing for the Baltimore Orioles. He enrolled at Maharishi University of Management in fall 2015, studying Maharishi Vedic Science. He became a certified teacher of the Transcendental Meditation program after completing a five and a half month TM teacher training course in Bali, Indonesia. He is currently co-director of the Orlando, Florida Transcendental Meditation center.\n"}
{"id": "30808267", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30808267", "title": "Catholic particular churches and liturgical rites", "text": "Catholic particular churches and liturgical rites\n\nA particular church () is an ecclesiastical community of faithful headed by a bishop (or equivalent), as defined by Catholic canon law and ecclesiology. A liturgical rite depends on the bishop, i.e. the particular church.\n\nThus, though closely related, in this context \"church\" refers to the institution, and \"rite\" to its practices. There are two kinds of particular churches:\n\nIn Catholic ecclesiology, a church is an assembly of the faithful, hierarchically ordered, both in the entire world (the Catholic Church), or in a certain territory (a particular church). To be a sacrament (a sign) of the Mystical Body of Christ in the world, a church must have both a head and members (Col. 1:18). The sacramental sign of Christ the head is the sacred hierarchy – the bishops, priests and deacons. More specifically, it is the local bishop, with his priests and deacons gathered around and assisting him in his office of teaching, sanctifying and governing (Mt. 28:19–20; Titus 1:4–9). Thus, the church is fully present sacramentally (by way of a sign) wherever there is a sign of Christ the head, a bishop and those who assist him, and a sign of Christ's body, Christian faithful. Each diocese is therefore considered a particular church. On the worldwide level, the sign of Christ the head is the Pope, and, to be Catholic, particular churches, whether local churches or autonomous ritual churches, must be in communion with this sign of Christ the head, Through this full communion with Saint Peter and his successors the church becomes a universal sacrament of salvation to the end of the age ().\n\nThe word \"church\" is applied to the Catholic Church as a whole, which is seen as a single church: the multitude of peoples and cultures within the church, and the great diversity of gifts, offices, conditions and ways of life of its members, are not opposed to the church's unity. In this sense of \"church\", the list of churches in the Catholic Church has only one member, the Catholic Church itself (comprising Roman and Eastern Churches).\n\nWithin the Catholic Church there are local particular churches, of which dioceses are the most familiar form. Other forms include territorial abbacies, apostolic vicariates and apostolic prefectures. The Code of Canon Law states: \"Particular Churches, in which and from which the one and only Catholic Church exists, are principally dioceses. Unless the contrary is clear, the following are equivalent to a diocese: a territorial prelature, a territorial abbacy, a vicariate apostolic, a prefecture apostolic and a permanently established apostolic administration.\" A list of Catholic dioceses, of which on 31 December 2011 there were 2,834, is given at \"List of Catholic dioceses (alphabetical)\".\n\nWithin the Catholic Church there are also aggregations of local particular churches that share a specific liturgical, theological, spiritual, and canonical heritage, distinguished from other heritages on the basis of cultural and historical circumstances. These are known as autonomous (\"\"sui iuris\"\") churches. The 1990 Code of Canons of the Eastern Churches defines such a church as follows: \"A group of Christ's faithful hierarchically linked in accordance with law and given express or tacit recognition by the supreme authority of the Church is in this Code called an autonomous Church.\" There are 24 such autonomous Catholic churches: One Latin Church (i.e., \"Western\") and 23 Eastern Catholic Churches\", a distinction by now more historical than geographical. Although each of them has its own specific heritage, they are all in full communion with the Pope in Rome.\n\nUnlike \"families\" or \"federations\" of churches formed through the grant of mutual recognition by distinct ecclesial bodies, the Catholic Church considers itself a single church (\"full communion, \"one Body\") composed of a multitude of particular churches, each of which, as stated, is an embodiment of the fullness of the one Catholic Church. For the particular churches within the Catholic Church, whether autonomous ritual churches (e.g., Coptic Catholic Church, Melkite Catholic Church, Armenian Catholic Church, etc.) or dioceses (e.g., Archdiocese of Birmingham, Archdiocese of Chicago, etc.), are seen as not simply branches, divisions or sections of a larger body. Theologically, each is considered to be the embodiment in a particular place or for a particular community of the one, whole Catholic Church. \"It is in these and formed out of them that the one and unique Catholic Church exists.\"\n\nThere are 24 autonomous churches: one Latin Church and twenty-three Eastern Catholic Churches, a distinction by now more historical than geographical. The term \"sui iuris\" means, literally, \"of its own law\", or self-governing. Although all of the particular churches espouse the same beliefs and faith, their distinction lies in their varied expression of that faith through their traditions, disciplines, and canon law. All are in communion with the Holy See.\n\nFor this kind of particular church, the 1983 \"Code of Canon Law\" uses the unambiguous phrase \"autonomous ritual Church\" (). The 1990 \"Code of Canons of the Eastern Churches\", which is concerned principally with what the Second Vatican Council called \"particular Churches or rites\", shortened this to \"autonomous Church\" ().\n\nIn Catholic teaching, each diocese (Latin Church term) or eparchy (Eastern term) is also a local or particular church, though it lacks the autonomy of the autonomous churches described above:\n\nThe \"1983 Code of Canon Law\", which is concerned with the Latin Church alone and so with only one \"autonomous\" particular church, uses the term \"particular Church\" only in the sense of \"local Church\", as in its Canon 373:\n\nThe standard form of these local or particular churches, each of which is headed by a bishop, is called a diocese in the Latin Church and an eparchy in the Eastern churches. At the end of 2011, the total number of all these jurisdictional areas (or \"sees\") was 2,834.\n\nThe Holy See, the Diocese of Rome, is seen as the central local church. The bishop, the Pope, is considered to be, in a unique sense, the successor of Saint Peter, the chief (or \"prince\") of the apostles. Quoting the Second Vatican Council's document \"Lumen gentium\", the \"Catechism of the Catholic Church\" states: \"The Pope, Bishop of Rome and Peter's successor, 'is the perpetual and visible source and foundation of the unity both of the bishops and of the whole company of the faithful.\n\nAll the Catholic particular churches, whether Latin or Eastern, local or autonomous—are by definition in full communion with the Holy See of Rome.\n\nThe Code of Canons of the Eastern Churches defines \"rite\" as follows: \"Rite is the liturgical, theological, spiritual and disciplinary heritage, distinguished according to peoples' culture and historical circumstances, that finds expression in each autonomous church's way of living the faith.\"\n\nAs thus defined, \"rite\" concerns not only a people's liturgy (manner of worship), but also its theology (understanding of doctrine), spirituality (prayer and devotion), and discipline (canon law).\n\nIn this sense of the word \"rite\", the list of rites within the Catholic Church is identical with that of the autonomous churches, each of which has its own heritage, which distinguishes that church from others, and membership of a church involves participation in its liturgical, theological, spiritual and disciplinary heritage. However, \"church\" refers to the people, and \"rite\" to their heritage.\n\nThe Code of Canons of the Eastern Churches states that the rites with which it is concerned (but which it does not list) spring from the following five traditions: Alexandrian, Antiochian, Armenian, Chaldean, and Constantinopolitan. Since it covers only Eastern Catholic churches and rites, it does not mention those of Western (Latin) tradition.\n\nThe word \"rite\" is sometimes used with reference only to liturgy, ignoring the theological, spiritual and disciplinary elements in the heritage of the churches. In this sense, \"rite\" has been defined as \"the whole complex of the (liturgical) services of any Church or group of Churches\".\n\nBetween \"rites\" in this exclusively liturgical sense and the autonomous churches there is no strict correspondence, such as there is when \"rite\" is understood as in the Code of Canons of the Eastern Churches. The 14 autonomous churches of Byzantine tradition have a single liturgical rite, but vary mainly in liturgical language, while on the contrary the single Latin Church has several distinct liturgical rites, whose universal main form, the Roman Rite, is practised in Latin or in the local vernacular).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1469219", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1469219", "title": "Chakma people", "text": "Chakma people\n\nThe Chakma people (also called Changma people) are an ethnic group closely related to the Daingnet people who are distributed throughout Arunachal Pradesh, Tripura, Assam, Mizoram, Meghalaya and West Bengal of India and in Chittagong Hill Tracts of Bangladesh. Today, the geographic distribution of Chakmas is spread across Bangladesh and parts of northeastern India, western Burma, and diaspora communities in Yunnan, the United States, Canada, the United Kingdom, France, South Korea, Japan and Australia.\n\nThe Chakmas are one of the indigenous Jumma peoples of the Chittagong Hill Tracts. They are the largest ethnic group there and make up half of the region's population. The Chakmas are divided into 46 clans or \"Gozas\". They have their own language, customs and culture, and practice Theravada Buddhism. The community is headed by the Chakma Raja.\n\nThe name \"Chakma\" derives from the Sanskrit word \"Sakthiman,\" which means beholder of power. This name was given to Chakmas by one of the Burmese kings during the Bagan era. Burmese kings hired Chakmas as ministers, advisers, and translators of Buddhist Pali texts. As employees of the king, the Chakmas wielded power in Burmese court disproportionate to their number. The Burmese people still refer to Chakmas as \"Sak\" or \"Thit,\" which are shortened and corrupted forms of \"Sakthiman\". At one stage, the accepted name of the tribe was \"Sakma\". Later, it was further altered to \"Chakma\".\n\nChakmas are Tibeto-Burman, and are thus closely related to tribes in the foothills of the Himalayas. The Chakmas are believed to be originally from greater Arakan Yoma North, presently Chin State, who later on immigrated to Bangladesh in the fifteenth century, settling in the Cox's Bazar District, the Korpos Mohol area, and in the Indian states of Arunachal Pradesh, Tripura and Mizoram.\n\nThe Chakma possess strong genetic affinities to Tibeto-Burman groups in Northeast India and to East Asian populations. They also have high frequencies of mainland Indian genetic ancestry.\n\nThe Arakanese referred to the Chakmas as \"Saks,\" \"Theks,\" \"or Thaikhs\". In 1546 CE, while the Arakanese king Meng Beng was engaged in a battle with the Burmese, the \"Sak\" king attacked Northern Arakan Roma and occupied the Arakanese-controlled Chacomas of the Northern Arakan Mountains.\n\nDiego de Astor created a map of Bengal, which was published as \"Descripção do Reino de Bengalla\" in the book \"Quarta decada da Asia\" (Fourth decade of Asia) by João de Barros in 1615. The map shows a place called \"Chacomas\" on the Eastern bank of the Karnaphuli River in what is now Chittagong, Bangladesh, suggesting that the Chakmas inhabited this area during this time.\n\nThe Arakan king Meng Rajagri (1593–1612) conquered these areas and addressed himself as the highest and most powerful king of Arakan, Chacomas and Bengal in a 1607 letter to a Portuguese merchant named Philip de Brito Nicote. After the defeat by the Arakanese, the Chakmas migrated to the present Chittagong Hill Tracts and founded their capital city Alekyangdong (present-day Alikadam). From Alekyangdong, they continued North and settled in the present-day Rangunia, Raozan, and Fatikchari Upazilas of Chittagong District.\n\nIn 1666, Mughal Governor of Bengal Shaista Khan defeated the Arakanese, conquered the Northern bank of Kaladan river, and renamed it Islamabad. However, Mughal rule was confined only to the plain areas of Chittagong early on, leaving the Chakmas largely unaffected. The Mughals eventually demanded tribute from the Chakmas after a trade dispute developed between the two groups. \n\nIn 1713, the conflict was resolved, and a stable relationship developed between the Chakmas and the Mughals; the latter never demanded complete subjugation from the former. The Mughals also rewarded the Chakma king Shukdev Roy; he established a new capital in his own name, in an area still known as Shukbilash. Ruins of the royal palace and other historic buildings still exist. Subsequently, the capital was shifted to Rajanagar, Ranirhat, Rangunia Upazila, Chittagong District.\n\nThe Mughals signed a treaty with Jallal Khan, Raja of the Chakma, in 1715. While the Mughals controlled significant amounts of yam and cotton crops in the Chittagong Hill Tracts (CHT), its independence from the Mughals was recognized.\n\nThe British government also received payment from the Chakmas and recognized their kingdom as independent. The CHT was guaranteed and delineated their own tribal preserve area by the treaties between the King of the Chakma and the British.\n\nA war was waged from 1777 to 1789 between the East India Company and the Chakmas. In exchange for leaving the Chakmas as tributaries and giving them autonomy, the British received an oath from Jan Baksh Khan, king of all Chakmas in 1787.\n\nThree years after the Battle of Plassey, Mir Qasim, the new Nawab of Murshidabad, rewarded the East India Company with Chittagong, Burdwan and Midnapur. On January 5, 1761, the company representative Harry Verelst took charge of Chittagong from Subedar Mohammad Reza Khan. But the Chakma king Sher Doulat Khan, who was practically independent, though nominally paid tribute to the Mughals, didn't accept the hegemony of the Company and their demand of taxes at an enhanced rate. A protracted war started and continued until 1787. The East India Company launched four offensives against the Chakmas in 1770, 1780, 1782 and 1785. In 1785, the Company started peace negotiations with the Chakma king Jan Baksh Khan, son of Sher Doulat Khan. Later in 1787, the king accepted the sovereignty of the Company and agreed to pay 500 Maunds of cotton annually. The peace treaty was signed in Kolkata.\n\nThe main provisions of the treaty between Governor-General Lord Cornwallis and the Chakma king were as follows:\nIn 1829, Halhed, then Commissioner of Chittagong reaffirmed that:\nJan Baksh Khan shifted his capital to a new place, naming it Rajanagar, near present-day Rangunia. After Jan Baksh's death in 1800, his son Tabbar Khan became king but died shortly thereafter. In 1802, Tabbar Khan's younger brother Jabbar Khan became king and ruled for ten years. After his death, his son Dharam Baksh Khan became king in 1812 and ruled until his death in 1832. Without any male heir there was chaos, and the government appointed Suklal Dewan as the Manager. Rani Kalindi, widow of Dharam Baksh Khan, applied to the government to allow her to run state affairs. The government accepted her application, and in 1844 issued an order to that effect. In 1846, the annual revenue payable to the Company was refixed at 11,803.00Rs. Today, the Chakma people are predominantly followers of Theravada Buddhism due to 19th century reforms and institutionalization by regent Queen Rani Kalindi.\n\nAfter the great Sepoy Mutiny in 1857, the British Government assumed direct control of the administration of India from the East India Company along with the Chittagong Hill Tracts, which was not yet formally separated from Chittagong. But the territorial jurisdiction of the Chakma Raja was fixed by a proclamation dated 6th Shraavana 1170M.S (1763 CE) by the Company as \"\"All the hills from the Feni river to the Sangoo and from Nizampur Road in Chittagong to the hills of Kooki Raja\".\"\n\nAfter Rani Kalindi's death in 1873, her grandson Harish Chandra became the Chakma Raja and was vested with the title Roy Bahadur.\n\nAfter the war with the English, the Chakmas became very weak militarily.\n\nThe Lushai used to make frequent murderous raids on the British subjects on the grounds that their hunting ground was converted to a tea garden by the British in Cacher, Noakhali, Comilla and other neighbouring tracts under Rani Kalindi. They raided Chittagong Hill Tracts and the neighbouring tracts in 1847, 1848, 1859 and 1860. As a consequence, with a view to paying the necessary attention to the areas of the front areas experiencing repeated raids and to protecting the people from the aggression of the independent tribes living farther east but primarily to occupy the Chakma land, the Lieutenant Governor of Bengal recommended the removal of the hill tracts from the regulation district and the appointment of a superintendent over the tribes.\nBoth these recommendations were adopted by the act XXII in 1860, which came into effect on August 18 of that year. Thus, the Hill Tracts were separated from Chittagong district, a superintendent was appointed for Chittagong Hill Tracts, and its headquarters were established at Chandraghona. The hills in his charge were henceforth known by the name of the Hill Tracts of Chittagong. For the next few years, attention was directed to the preservation of peace on the frontier. In 1869, the headquarters were shifted to Rangamati. The official designation of the post of superintendent was changed to Deputy Commissioner and full control of all matters pertaining to both revenue and justice throughout the Hill Tracts was vested in his office.\n\nThe frontier situation put pressure on the Chakma chief to shift his capital, and ultimately in 1874, it was shifted from Rajanagar to Rangamati. At that time cotton was grown in Chittagong Hill Tracts and was important to the British for their mills. Therefore, effective control of Chittagong Hill Tracts was also important for them.\n\nIn 1881, the government decided to divide Chittagong Hill Tracts into Chakma Circle, Bohmong Circle, and Mong Circle.\n\nEach circle was headed by a chief. Chakma circle was headed by a Chakma, Bohmong circle by a Bohmong and the Burmese circle by a Mong. The Chakma circle was centrally located and inhabited mainly by the Chakmas, the Bohmong circle was under the rule of a Bohmong chief of Arakanese extraction, and the Mong circle was also inhabited by Arakanese speaking clans with a sprinkling of Tripura immigrants and headed by another ruler of Arakanese extraction. The reason for this division was that the British government was not in favour of the strong power of the Chakma Chief who held control over these hilly tribes. Further, the government was feeling increasingly concerned about the political and administrative affairs of these tracts. Hence, they wished to lay the foundation of administration in a restricted manner with the following basic objectives:\n\nAfter the creation of a separate district and also the three circles, the Kuki (Lushai) threat to the Chittagong Hill Tracts and other adjoining areas did not stop. The Shendus, another tribe, made occasional raids in the Hill Tracts between 1865 and 1888 and killed many people including the massacre of Lt. Steward and his survey party. In 1872, 1,890 military offensives were launched simultaneously into Lushai Hills (Mizoram) from Chittagong district and Burma in collaboration with the governments of Bengal, Assam and Burma, and the whole of Kookie land was brought under British control.\n\nAutonomous police forces were created from the Hill Tract tribes in 1881. Tribals complained to Britain after the Hill Tracts experienced attempts at penetration by lowlander Bengali Muslims.\n\nOn 1 April 1900, the South and the North Lushai Hills (then a part of Chittagong Hill Tracts) were merged to form the district of Assam province with headquarters at Aizawl. The Lushai hills are now the present day Mizoram state of India.\n\nLater, the British through the Deputy Commissioner took over absolute power in the Chittagong Hill Tracts (including the Chakma circle) after implementation of the Chittagong Hill Tracts manual. The Chittagong Hill Tracts (Lushai Hills) were again designated an \"Excluded Area\" under the British India Act of 1935.\n\nAn independent state was demanded for the Chittagong Hill Tract by local tribes due to the fact that Bengalis and the tribals did not share a religion, language, or ethnicity, and they asked for their own independent area in the 1930s when the Indian national movement was launched. In the event of Indian independence, the tribals were guaranteed by Britain that the Chittagong Hill Tracts would be split off separately, since World War II was happening and the Japanese were attacking.\n\nIn British India, there was a measure of security and protection afforded for the non-Muslim and non-Bengali Chittagong Hill Tract Chakmas and other tribal people. Bengal and Assam did not govern the CHT during this period. Rather the CHT was a distinct administrative unit that enjoyed a large degree of self-rule.\n\nDespite the CHT being 97.2%-98.5% non-Muslim, it was given to Pakistan by the Boundary Commission Chairman Sir Cyril Radcliffe in 1947 upon independence. Native Chakmas made up most of the officials except for some British during British India rule. Pakistan received the CHT from Radcliffe after the issue of Punjab districts and the CHT revised boundaries were pushed onto him by Lord Mountbatten on 17 August 1947. The decision by Radcliffe to draw this boundary paved the way for future war, violence, and conflict. The British awarded \"Excluded area\" was downgraded to \"Tribal Area\" in the Chittagong Hill Tracts. The Bangladeshi Constitution does not refer to any group (inclusive of Bengalis) as indigenous.\n\nMany Buddhist Chakmas migrated from East Pakistan (now Bangladesh) to India. Projects for infrastructure development negatively impacted CHT tribals starting in the 1950s. The Kaptai Dam development project negatively effected the CHT tribals. Chakmas made up 90% of 10,000 people whose farmland of 54,000 acres was flooded in 1962 by the Karnafuli reservoir and Kaptai Dam. Inept relocation and insufficient compensation were offered to the Chakmas for the dam. 100,000 Chakmas had their lives ruined by their farmland being flooded by over 40% by the US Agency of International Development's hydro-electric dam in East Pakistan. The Chittagong Hill Tracts Chakma population was estimated at 250,000 in 1964. The CHT was described as filled with fountains of water, hilly, forested, and with a verdant green landscape. A deputy commissioner administered the Chittagong Hill Tracts Division under Pakistani rule.\n\nAutonomy was requested in 1970 by Manabendra Narayan Larma. India used NEFA as a resettlement area for Chakma refugees. The India Tripura state had to deal with the issue of Chakma families. Agriculture, employment and education are heavily dominated by Chakmas compared to Arunachal natives since they are more skilled and have a higher literacy rate. The issue of returning Chakma refugees from India to Bangladesh was brought up in 1995. The hill tribes conflict with Bangladesh caused the exodus to India from the Chittagong Hill Tracts of 50,000 Chakmas. It was arranged that Bangladesh would take them back in a 1992 deal between India and Bangladesh. A March 1997 agreement between Chakma leaders and Bangladesh provided for the repatriation to Bangladesh of Chakma refugees in Tripura. Both East Pakistan's partition and Bangladesh's independence caused India to experience an influx of Chakma refugees.\n\nTridiv Roy continued his collaboration with the Pakistani occupation forces and rejected the idea of joining the freedom movement of Bangladesh. Pakistani president Yahya Khan assigned a southeast Asian diplomatic post to Tridiv Roy during the war as a reward of his collaboration betraying with the tribal population and Bangladeshis. Fearing the likely democratic rule in an independent Bangladesh and the possibility of losing his feudal interests made him side with the Pakistanis. Pakistan retained support and allegiance in exchange for the capital of CHT, Rangmati, to stay free from artillery shelling in an agreement made by Roy on March 25. It was believed that the new Bangladesh would not award autonomy to CHT by Roy and the Chakmas and Roy earned the enmity of the Awami League by his rejection of Sheikh Mujib's offer to him to stand as the Awami League candidate. Pakistan retained the allegiance of Roy. Autonomy was refused to the CHT tribals. CHT hills people were enrolled as Mujahids and Razakars by the Pakistan army during the 1971 war. The Bangladesh government provided financial support for thousands of Bengalis to settle in the tracts. By 1981, a third of the population of the tracts were Bengali migrants. Demands to halt Bengali settlement, have Bengali settlers return lands back to the CHT natives, and autonomy was requested by the PCJSS Chittagong Hill Tracts Peoples Solidarity Association which was founded by Chakmas. PCJSS stood for the \"Parbattya Chattagram Jana Samhati Samiti\". On January 7, 1973 Shanti Bahini was founded as the military army of PCJSS. Shanti Bahini resisted the Bengali army in 1975 and was led by Manabendra Narayan Larma. Peace Force (Shanti Bahini) was created in 1973 due to the estrangement between the government of Bangladesh and the Chakma. Jumma guerillas made up Shanti Bahini forces. The party heads of PCJSS are mostly Chakma due to their 59% literacy rate which is more than other CHT tribes, so they control the Parbatya Chattagram Jana Samhati Samiti. In the 1960s, hundreds of Muslim families from other parts of East Pakistan were resettled in the Matamuhuri Valley's region of Alikadam, Feni Valley's regions of Belchari and Tulanchari, and the regions of Lama, Bandarban, and Ramgarh.\n\nDuring the war, the \"majority of the Phadis remained passive throughout the nine months of the liberation war\" although the Mukti Bahini enrolled some and in 1971, the Pakistan army enrolled CHT hill men. After the war Tridiv Roy maintained his allegiance to Pakistan which he supported in the 1971 war. In 1970, he served as independent in the Parliament of Pakistan while serving as Raja of the Chakma. The Awami League candidate of Sheikh Mujibur Rahman lost the election to Roy in the Parliament of Pakistan. Roy was in Southeast Asia when Bangladesh came under Indian army control in December 1971. Bhutto assigned the position of Minorities Affairs Minister to Roy and he helped lobby in the United Nations (UN) for Pakistan after the war. The post of ambassador and tourism were also awarded to Tridiv. Roy represented Pakistan when it protested at the UN over Bangladesh. Pakistan retained the allegiance of only Noor ul Amin and Tridiv Roy among their East Pakistan MPs. Tridiv refused to join Bangladesh since the hill tracts were not granted autonomy and stayed on Pakistan's side despite Mujib trying to urge Tridiv to quit Pakistan.\nMeghalaya and Tripura were destinations of Buddhist Chakma refugees fleeing from the war started by plains dwelling Muslim Bangladeshi settling the CHT as well as the government of Bangladesh implementing a military police force to expel Chittagong Hill Tracts natives. \"The Muslim World\" complained about alleged immigration from Bangladesh to Arakan by Buddhists of Magh and Chakma background.\n\nGaro people were stripped of their property by the XLVI Vested and Non-President Property Act by Bangladesh in 1974 and affected by the 1964 Enemy Property Ordinance. Lands in CHT have been taken by Bengali colonists and the hill peoples of the CHT have not been afforded any cultural and ethnic recognition and sympathy from the various military and democratic administrations ruling Bangladesh, despite culture and ethnicity being used as an argument against Pakistan by Bengalis during the war. A 1997 peace agreement ended the over twenty years long war on autonomy between Bangladesh and the Chittagong Hill Tracts Jumma inhabitants. The Chittagong Hill Tracts showed that only Bengalis were to be beneficiaries of Bengali nationalism and its \"liberalism\" which was aimed only against the hegemony of Pakistan. Even the \"pro-minority\" and participant of the CHT peace agreement, the Awami League, refused to grant the status of Adibashi, declaring that Bengali is the nationality and Bangladeshi is the citizenship per the constitution and refused to acknowledge the fact that Bangladesh had indigenous peoples. Bengali nationalism is part of the BNP's ideology. Jumma nationalism was spawned from Bengali nationalism due to the hegemony exerted by the Bengalis. Because the Bangladesh independence movement received apathy from the CHT Jummas, they were deemed as unfaithful by the Bengalis. The natives of CHT were ignored when the Rangmati Kaptai Dam was financed by the World Bank. No autonomy was awarded to the Chittagong Hill Tracts in the Bangladesh Constitution of 1972. The Chakma conflict is both a religious and ethnic problem in Bangladesh. The Chittagong Hill tracts saw tribal Chakma leave the area due to religious and ethnic strife by Bangladesh's Islamisation policy. The Chittagong Hill Tracts was colonized by Northern Myanmar and Bangladesh originating Muslims. The label \"genocidal\" has been used to describe actions by the government of Bangladesh upon the non-Islamic Chittagong Hill Tracts Jumma natives.\n\nLike in India \"Tripura\" State, the Chakmas have lived in the modern state of Bangladesh much before it gained its independence. However, recent migrations of ethnic Bengalis into traditionally Chakma regions of Bangladesh have raised tensions in the Chittagong Hill Tracts. Successive governments have dealt forcefully with Chakma uprisings, and finally ended the conflict with The 1997 Peace Treaty. This forceful dealing and the construction of Kaptai Dam by then Pakistan government in Chakma areas submerged cultivable lands and displaced thousands, resulted in the migration of a large population of Chakmas into Diyun the state of Arunachal Pradesh of the present Indian Union during 1964-1969.\n\nIn February 1972, Prime Ministers of India and Bangladesh issued a joint statement by virtue of which the Government of India took a decision to confer citizenship on the Chakmas under Section 5(1)(a) of the Citizenship Act, 1955 but the state of Arunachal Pradesh had reservations. Chakma was thus allowed to be rehabilitated under the decision of the Indian government. The Election Commission of India framed guidelines to enable Chakmas to have the right to vote by having their names enrolled in the electoral rolls of the constituency where they have been settled.\n\nThe Chakmas now have representation in the Mizoram General Assembly, Tipura Legislative Assembly and Tripura Tribal Area Autonomous District Council. The only seat of political power and identity is the Chakma Autonomous District Council given in India, which however is questioned by the Mizo people on being legitimate. There are another 80,000 Chakmas in Rakhine state of Myanmar. The Chakmas in Myanmar are known as Daingnet people.\n\nIn September 2015, Supreme Court of India passed a judgment directing the government of India and of Arunachal Pradesh to grant India citizenship rights to all the Chakmas holding that they could not be discriminated against any other Indian.\n\nThe Bengali related Indo-Aryan Chittagonian transformed the Changma Vaj language into Eastern-Indo Aryan from its Tibeto-Burman origins. The people themselves as classified as Mongoloid. Hinduism and Theravada Buddhism are the religions of the Chakma. Now it is classified as Indo-Aryan.\n\nThe vast majority of the Chakma are followers of Theravada Buddhism, a religion that they have been practicing for centuries.\n\nAlmost every Chakma village has a Buddhist Vihar (Kiyong). Buddhist priests or monks are called Bhikhus. They preside at religious festivals and ceremonies. The villagers support their monks with food, gifts, and offerings to Buddha. The Chakmas also worship Hindu deities. Sri Mahalakshmi, for example, is worshipped as the Goddess of the Harvest.\n\nChakmas offer the sacrifice of goats, chickens, or ducks to calm the spirits that are believed to bring fevers and disease. Even though animal sacrifice is against Buddhist beliefs, the Chakma Buddhist priests ignore the practice.\n\nOriginally speaking a language belonging to the Tibeto-Burman family, some of the Chakmas have been influenced by neighbouring Chittagonian, an Eastern Indo-Aryan language closely related to Assamese. Many linguists now consider the modern Chakma language (known as \"Changma Vaj\" or \"Changma Hodha\") part of the Eastern Indo-Aryan language. Changma Vaj is written in its own script, the Chakma script, also known as \"Ojhopath\". Chakma is written in an alphabet which allowing for its cursive form, is almost identical with the Khmer and the Lanna (Chiangmai) characters, which was formerly in use in Cambodia, Laos, Thailand and southern parts of Burma.\n\nThe Chakmas are people with their own culture, folklore, literature and traditions. The Chakma women wear an ankle length cloth around the waist which is also called \"Phinon\" and also a \"Haadi\" wrapped above the waist as well as silver ornaments. The \"Phinon\" and the \"Haadi\" are colourfully handwoven with various designs. The design is first embroidered on a piece of cloth known as \"Alaam\". The first Bangladeshi Chakma language film, \"Mor Thengari\", was directed by Aung Rakhine and was banned by Bangladesh's Censor Board.\n\nThe most important festivals celebrated by the Chakmas are Bizu, Alphaloni, Buddha Purnima and Kathin Civar Dan.\n\nChakmas celebrate various Buddhist festivals. The most important is Buddha Purnima. This is the anniversary of three important events in Buddha's life—his birth, his attainment of enlightenment, and his death. It is observed on the full moon day of the month of Vaisakha (usually in May).\n\nOn this and other festival days, Chakmas put on their best clothes and visit the temple. There, they offer flowers to the image of Buddha, light candles, and listen to sermons from the priests. Alms (offerings) are given to the poor, and feasts are held for the priests.\n\nThe three-day festival known as Bishu, which coincides with the Bengali New Year's Day, is celebrated with much enthusiasm. Houses are decorated with flowers, young children pay special attention to the elderly to win their blessings, and festive dishes are prepared for guests.\n\nBizu is the most important socio-religious festival of the Chakma. This festival gave birth to the Bizu dance. The festival lasts for three days and begins one day before the last day of the month of Chaitra, falling in the month of April. The first day is known as \"Phool Bizu\". On this day, household items, clothes are cleaned and washed, food items are collected to give the house a new look with the veil of different flowers.\nThe second day is known as \"Mul Bizu\". This day starts with the bath in the river. People wear new clothes and make rounds of the village. Women wear \"phinon\" and \"Haadi\" while men wear \"silum\" and \"dhudi\". They also enjoy specially made vegetable curry known as \"Pazon ton\", different homemade sweets and take part in different traditional sports. The day ends with the Bizu dance.\n\nThe last day, which is known as \"Gojjepojje din\" involves the performances of different socio-religious activities.\nIn the context of its nature, some say that Bizu is a festival, which revolves around agricultural activities because it is celebrated in mid-April when the earth is just drenched with the first rain and the jum sowing is taken up. And it is believed that with the objective of getting a rich harvest, worship of the earth was arranged, which later on took the form of a festival. However, of late it has lost its agricultural character.\n\nAlphaloni is a most important day for Chakma people. During Alphaloni everyone takes a break from farming because it is harvest season. In Alphaloni all farmers take rest and also give rest to all animals, weapons of farmers. In this day they eat new food, fruits from jum (harvest), offer and share with each other. This day all people feel happy and enjoy with family, neighbors, relatives, etc. to offering new fruits from jum. It is a historical day for Chakma people; they have celebrated this festival for 2500 years.\n\nIt is an old tradition from the reign of King Śuddhodana, father of Siddhartha (Buddha). This is an old festival of 2500 years ago, when the prince Siddharta was meditating under the tree, on the other side had to celebrate plough festival (Alphaloni) their farmer parents and relatives, etc.\n\nDuring that time he was practicing meditation and seeking an end to all suffering.\n\nIt is celebrated on the full moon day in the month of Vaisakha. It encompasses the birth, enlightenment (nirvāna), and passing away (Parinirvāna) of Lord Buddha. On the day of the worship, devotees go to the monastery with \"Siyong\" (offerings of rice, vegetable and other fruits and confectionaries). The Buddhist priests known as \"Bhikkhu\" lead the devotees for the chanting of mantra composed in Pali in praise of the holy triple gem: the Buddha, the Dharma (his teachings), and the Sangha (his disciples). Apart from this, other practices such as lighting thousands of lamps and releasing \"Phanuch Batti\" (an auspicious lamp made of paper in the form of a balloon) are also done as and when possible.\n\nBamboo shoot is a traditional food of the Chakma people. They call it \"Bajchuri\". Shrimp paste and Fish paste are their traditional ingredient of cooking. They call these, \"Sidol\".\n\nThe staple food of the Chakmas is rice, supplemented by millet, corn (maize), vegetables, and mustard. Vegetables include yams, pumpkins, melons, and cucumbers. Vegetables and fruit gathered from the forest may be added to the diet. Fish, poultry, and meat are eaten, despite the fact that many Buddhists are vegetarians.\n\nTraditional diets have slowly been abandoned, as the Chakmas have been forced to flee their homeland. Some typical Chakma dishes include fish, vegetables, and spices stuffed into a length of bamboo and cooked in a low fire; foods wrapped in banana leaves and placed beside a fire; and eggs that are aged until they are rotten.\n\nGudu hara, or Ha-do-do, is a game played throughout the Chakma region. Two teams stand on either side of a central line. They take turns sending a player into opposing territory to touch as many people as he or she can during the space of one breath, while at the same time saying \"Ha-do-do.\" If the player runs out of breath or is caught by his or her opponents, he or she is out. On the other hand, if the player successfully returns to his or her own territory, the players he or she has tagged must leave the game.\n\nGhilay Hara is a game that can be played between two teams or two individuals. A special type of seed called \"ghilay\" is used to play this game. \"Ghilay\" seeds are found and grown in wild forests of hills and are similar to bean seeds but bigger in size. When the time comes, the large beans dry out and the seeds known as \"ghilay\" are ready to be collected for use in the game.\n\nOther pastimes include Nadeng Hara, played with a spinning top, and various wrestling games. Potti Hara is a complex traditional game that is played by two teams. Due to how sophisticated its rules are, it's becoming less and less common.\n\nThese games are enjoyed by girls and boys alike, but in recent times their popularity among youth Chakma peoples has declined.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1678406", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1678406", "title": "Communalism (South Asia)", "text": "Communalism (South Asia)\n\nCommunalism is a term used in South Asia to denote attempts to construct religious or ethnic identity, incite strife between people identified as different communities, and to stimulate communal violence between those groups. It derives from history, differences in beliefs, and tensions between the communities.\n\nThe term communalism was constructed by the British colonial authorities as it wrestled to manage violence between religious, ethnic and disparate groups in its colonies, particularly Africa and South Asia, in early 20th century.\n\nCommunalism is not unique to South Asia. It is found in Africa, the Americas, Asia, Europe and Australia.\n\nCommunalism is a significant social issue in Bangladesh, India, Pakistan and Sri Lanka.\n\nThe term came into use in early 20th century during the British colonial rule, where the rulers saw India divided into several communities and attempted to placate separate \"communal\" interests. The Hindu Mahasabh and the All-India Muslim League represented such communal interests, whereas Indian National Congress represented an overarching \"nationalist\" vision. In the run up to independence in 1947, communalism and nationalism came to be competing ideologies and led to the division of British India into the Republics of India and Pakistan. The bloody Partition violence gave a clear sense to every one what communalism leads to, and it has since been frowned upon in India.\n\nCommunal conflicts between religious communities, especially Hindus and Muslims, have been a recurring occurrence in independent India, occasionally leading to serious inter-communal violence.\n\n\nExamples of communalist violence, with strong motivations based on religious identity include:\nIncidents of \"communal violence\" cannot clearly be separated by incidents of [[terrorism]]. \"Communal violence\" tends to refer to mob killings, while terrorism describes concerted attacks by small groups of militants (see [[definition of terrorism]]). See also .\n\n\n\n\n[[Category:Hate crime|Communal violence]]\n[[Category:Political terminology in India]]\n[[Category:Social issues in India]]\n[[Category:Religion and violence]]\n[[Category:Sectarian violence]]"}
{"id": "36238334", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36238334", "title": "Damnazes", "text": "Damnazes\n\nDamnazes (; ; died 522) was a 6th-century king of Lazica (western Georgia), a contemporary of the Sassanid king of Iran Kavadh I. Damnazes, like other kings of Late Antique Lazica, are mentioned by the contemporary chronicles in the context of the rivalry between the Eastern Roman (Byzantine) Empire and Sassanid Iran in the Caucasus. \n\nDamnazes is known to the Byzantine historian John Malalas as the father and predecessor of Tzathius, king of the Lazi. The anonymous \"Chronicon Paschale\" (\"Chron. Pasch.\" s.a. 522) renders his name as \"Zamnaxes\". According to a genealogical hypothesis by Professor Cyril Toumanoff, Damnazes might have been a son of the Lazic king Gubazes I, who is known to have had his son as co-ruler 456.\n\nDamnazes was a subject of the Sassanid king and, although ruling over a Christian country, professed Zoroastrianism. On his death, his son and successor, Tzathius, rejected an Iranian coronation and repaired to Constantinople to have his accession validated by the Byzantine emperor Justin I.\n\n"}
{"id": "15484860", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15484860", "title": "Ecumenical apologetics", "text": "Ecumenical apologetics\n\nEcumenical apologetics is \"an explanation (defense) of the Christian Faith, in an ecumenical fashion\"; presenting a defense of one's own faith while advocating and recognizing \"a greater sense of shared spirituality\" with those of other confessions or faith traditions.\n\nWhile neither apologetics nor ecumenism is a new term, \"ecumenical apologetics\" came into use early in the 21st century in an effort to combine the two, which were previously presumed to be opposing efforts or ideas. Likewise, both apologetics \"and\" ecumenism are terms used by people of different religious orientations; however, the term is used primarily, if not exclusively, to refer to a form of Christian apologetics.\n\n"}
{"id": "41401957", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41401957", "title": "Feminist Jewish ethics", "text": "Feminist Jewish ethics\n\nFeminist Jewish ethics is an area of study in Jewish ethics and feminist philosophy.\n\nIn her 1991 work, \"Standing Again at Sinai: Judaism from a Feminist Perspective\", Judith Plaskow discusses the experiences of Jewish women, within a modern framework. Her work focuses on the transformation Jewish tradition, to include and be influenced by a feminist lens. This theme of change is heavily carried throughout her writing on Feminist Jewish Ethics. She considers the ways in which feminist thought can utilize theology to include women within Jewish thinking and experience.\nPlaskow takes on a Feminist perspective in her analysis of Jewish tradition in order to provide a reinterpretation of theology and Jewish thought that best includes and validates the experiences of modern Jewish women. She confronts Jewish theology and its tendencies toward: male-centric language, and the singularity of its image of a superior God. She argues that such tendencies influence and motivate underlying patriarchal forces within traditional Judaism, and thus invalidate female experiences. By arguing for a multiplicity of images of God and the reassessment of God's role as non-hierarchical, Plaskow aims to provide a resolution within her Jewish feminist theology.\n\nIn her 1971 article entitled, \"The Jew Who Wasn't There: Halacha and the Jewish Woman\", Adler provides an initial platform for her own analysis of feminist ethics within the Jewish tradition. Throughout various works, she focuses on Jewish traditional considerations of impurities within women. She presents a defense of Jewish ritual for female purification, in her 1972 work \"Tum'ah and Toharah: Ends and Beginnings\". However, in her 1993 essay, \"In Your Blood, Live: Re-visions of a Theology of Purity\", she rather arrives at an opposing conclusion, that traditional discussions of purity and impurity do not allow for an equalized system, between males and females and that such tradition suggests that \"most impure people are women\". In her 1983 essay entitled, \"I've Had Nothing Yet, So I Can't Take More\", she criticizes rabbinic tradition for marginalizing women within \"its processes\".\n\nIn her 1981 work, \"On Women and Judaism: A View from Tradition\", Blu Greenberg studies the many ways in which modern women are excluded from Judaism. By doing so, she develops a new space and way of practice for the female role, within traditional Judaism. She aims to uncover whether feminism is of benefit or detriment to Jewish tradition. Her works aims to mend the points of contention that she studies between Judaism and feminism. However, she is mutually committed to truly understanding whether feminism is beneficial for Jewish tradition.\n\nTamar Ross is a Modern Orthodox Jewish feminist thinker who confronts perceived flaws within traditional Jewish thought and law. She considers biases within what she considers patriarchal traditional text. In response to a traditional concept which she considers particularly problematic: the idea of \"Torah from Heaven\", she introduces the idea of evolving revelation. She develops this approach, and the metaphor of \"Expanding the Palace of Torah\", which she adopts from Abraham Isaac Kook's philosophy, as she intends to promote expansion, rather than dismissal of religious tradition, and text. In her 2004 work, \"Expanding the Palace of Torah: Orthodoxy and Feminism\", she details a path by which Orthodoxy can become more inclusive of Feminist Ethics and practice.\n\nIn her book, \"Feminism Encounters Traditional Judaism: Resistance and Accommodation\", Tova Hartman offers experiential insight on the intersections of modern feminism and Jewish Tradition. Hartman provides three stances that she claims \"may be relevant, resonant, and helpful in cultivating a strong feminist position vis-á-vis the traditional Jewish canon,\": affirmation, rejection and reinterpretation. Her juxtaposition of feminist readings of Freud and alternative feminist readings of Orthodox Judaism allows Hartman to emphasize the utility and necessity of reinterpretation and revision in her own attempt at re-engagement.\n\nJewish ethics is the intersection of Judaism and the philosophical discipline of ethics. Most Jewish ethical texts derive from the Hebrew Bible. For centuries, the biblical literature has served as a \"primary source for the development of Jewish moral concepts and ethical reflection\". Tracing back to ancient rabbinic Judaism, scholars have sought to develop ethics and a moral code of conduct based on their understanding of the written Torah. Pirkei Avot, a compilation of ethical teachings in the Talmud, was written by the rabbis of the MishnaicMishnaic period. It outlines the Torah's views on ethics and interpersonal relationships and it is the only part of the Talmud not containing laws. Jewish ethics continued to expand in the Middle Ages as great Jewish thinkers including Moses Maimonides, Saadya Gaon, and Bahya ben Joseph ibn Paquda greatly contributed to moral Jewish thought. During the 19th and 20th centuries, Jewish ethics flourished, in part due to the development of the different denominations or branches of Judaism. There are many different scholars who have influenced contemporary Jewish ethics including Hermann Cohen, Martin Buber, and Emmanuel Levinas. Still, in recent decades, the interpretation and reinterpretation of Jewish ethics continues to be a source of debate among scholars.\n\nIn the 1970s, Feminist Jewish scholars entered this debate. The Jewish feminist movement emerged as part of the Second Wave of Feminism in an attempt to As a result of the feminist Jewish movement, many changes were made in the status and treatment of Jewish women, most notably regarding worship, liturgy, and the practices of niddah and the mikveh.\n\nAlong with changes to the treatment of women, there were new developments in feminist Jewish scholarship and thought. Prior to the 1970s and 1980s, women's voices were excluded from the predominantly male-oriented practices and texts of Judaism. Feminist Jewish-thought scholars have attempted to create a theological narrative that merges feminism with Judaism. According to Judith Plaskow, one of the first Jewish feminist theologians, early Jewish feminists were mainly concerned with the exclusion of women from the minyan, positive time-bound mitzvot, and the inability for women to serve as witnesses and to initiate divorce. Today, the dilemmas posed for Jewish feminist theologians extend beyond the original issues by tackling problems of women in liturgy, biblical language, and sexuality. \"Though all feminists believe that Judaism reflects a male bias, the extent to which each Jewish feminist believes Judaism and feminism are reconcilable\" has shaped the multitude of ways feminist scholars have approached feminist Jewish thought.\n\nOne approach for many feminist Jewish theologians has been the belief that Judaism is patriarchalpatriarchial at its core and that a few alterations to Jewish practices do not compensate for gender inequality. They believe Judaism is a system that reflects a dominantly male-voice and one in which woman is viewed as \"other\". It is their view that the current form of Judaism must be rejected. Feminist Jewish theologians have responded to this problem in a number ways. In the 1970s, Judith Plaskow, a Reform feminist theologian suggested the need for a complete re-imagining of Judaism. In many of her works, Plaskow addresses the problem of Judaism's androcentric theology and argues that feminism \"demands a new understanding of Torah, God, and Israel\". Not only must the male-dominated language of Judaism (such as the image of God as male and superior) be changed, but also a multiplicity of God images is an essential aspect of Jewish feminist theology. Furthermore, she promotes a Judaism in which the feminist mode of thought can help redefine the Jewish experience for women. From Plaskow's point of view, Judaism must undergo a complete reimagining that not only focuses on contemporary Jewish problems, but one that delves into the theology behind Judaism.\n\nAnother approach by feminist Jewish theologians has sought to integrate female concerns and female voices into an existing model of Judaism. Blu Greenberg, an Orthodox Jew, is one such feminist who follows this model. In her most well known work, \"On Women and Judaism\" written in 1994, Greenberg presents a model for reconciling Judaism and feminism in a way that works within the boundaries of halakha and allows for \"growth and greater equality in ritual and spiritual realms\". To accomplish this goal, Greenberg proposes many alterations to Jewish practices so that they more readily reflect women's equality. Scholars who support this model are more likely to use traditional resources as a means to foster a feminist Judaism because Judaism appears to be less androcentric. Theologians such as Greenberg ultimately advocate for a movement where Halakhah embodies and expresses women's concerns and infuses women's concerns with Jewish values.\n\nRachel Adler, a Reform feminist Jewish theologian, has another approach for women's place in Jewish ethics. Adler, in her work \"Engendering Judaism\" written in 1998, advocates for the use of gender to help understand the Jewish past and shape the Jewish future. Adler acknowledges that although traditional Jewish law has systematically ignored women's voices, she also recognizes the centrality of Halacha. She thus envisions a Judaism, which would draw not only upon the totality of Jewish tradition and law, but also one in which gender and gender equality are central to the conversation, ultimately creating a more inclusive, engendered Judaism.\n\nOne other popular methodology used by feminist Jewish theologians is the belief that while there are gender inequalities within Judaism, they can be changed without altering the fundamentally traditional structures. Tamar Ross, in \"Expanding the Palace of Torah\" written in 2004, outlines a path for a more inclusive Orthodoxy of feminist values. She argues for a change within halakha, detailing halakhic legal tools that can allow for changes in Orthodoxy as well as providing theologies of revelation and God, which allow for the acceptance of these changes. In a similar fashion, Tova Hartman, in her work \"Feminism Encounters Traditional Judaism\" written in 2007, acknowledges the importance of biblical literatures, but argues for the rereading and reinterpretation of such texts to create a more inclusive Judaism for women.\n\nThe multitude of scholars who have addressed the tension between feminism and Judaism with respect to theology has led to significant changes within the different denominations of Judaism. For instance, women found the language of the traditional Judaic prayer book to be restrictive and lacking a feminine voice. The exclusion of matriarchs and sole use of male imagery to describe God suggested that public worship was primarily for men. In the early 1990s, prayer books began to include the names of the matriarchs as well as gender-sensitive God-language. Throughout the 1970s and 1980s many changes for women were made in synagogue life such as the inclusion of women in liturgical positions and the ability to form a minyan. In 1972, the Reform Movement in the United States ordained the first female rabbi. For many Jewish women, the Reform Movement provided an ideal setting for women's voices to be heard and their experiences to be central to Judaism rather than marginalized.\n\nThe Reconstructionist Movement soon followed in similar footsteps to those of Reform Judaism. Mordecai Kaplan, founder of Reconstructionist Judaism, was a strong advocate for the equality of women in Judaism. He argued in his essays, The \"Reconstructionist Papers\", that Jewish law defines women as inferior to men and concludes that Jewish law must change and rid itself of these gender inequalities. In 1922, the first Bat Mitzvah occurred in a Reconstructionist synagogue, but it was not until 1974 that the Reconstructionist Movement ordained its first female rabbi. Reconstructionism has allowed women to voice their concerns from social issues like domestic violence to religious inequalities such as the right for women to read from the Torah. The Reconstructionist Movement has moved beyond Kaplan's original vision of equality toward a reconceptualization of Judaism through a feminist lens.\"\n\nConservative Judaism, in recent years, has seen its position on women shift towards equality as well. The Committee on Jewish Law and Standards is the central authority on halakha within Conservative Judaism. By 1955, the Committee on Jewish Law and Standards permitted women to chant blessings before and after the Torah readings and in 1973, women counted as members of a minyan. Ten years later, in October 1983, the Jewish Theological Seminary, the main education institution of the Conservative Movement, began accepting women in the rabbinical and cantorial schools. It ordained the first woman rabbi in the Conservative Movement in 1985. The Committee on Jewish Law Standards adopted three responsa in 2006 regarding the subject of middah. It reaffirmed the obligation of Conservative Jewish women to abstain from sexual relations during menstruation and the immersion in the mikveh, but has also loosened the restrictions regarding niddah.\n\nThe Orthodox Movement has also seen progression for women. While it has yet to accept women into its rabbinate, in the past few decades, women have gained new rights and opportunities. Orthodox Jewish women now have the ability to work as rabbinical advocates, family purity experts, and synagogue leaders. In the late 1970s, women began to study Talmud and other Jewish texts. In the 1990s, women took on the role of \"to'anot rabaniyot\" or rabbinical advocates, a job previously only available to men. The to'anot help divorcing couples navigate the tricky legal system. In 1997, women were permitted to train as \"yoatzot halakha\", female Halakhic advisors who were knowledgeable in the laws and rituals regarding niddah and ritual purity. The details of these laws, which relate to menstruation as well as other issues of sexuality and women's health, render some women understandably uncomfortable in the presence of a male rabbi. Since the late 1990s, many Modern Orthodox synagogues in the United States have created congregational leadership positions for women such as community scholar or assistant congregational leader. These positions resemble the duties of the rabbi, however, these women are careful not call themselves rabbi. Orthodox interpretations of Jewish law continue to prevent women from counting as part of minyan and from bearing witness.\n\nFeminist Jewish scholars approach Jewish texts with several ethical considerations. They struggle with the ethically problematic portrayal of women in Torah and rabbinic texts and offer their own readings of these texts. They often use Jewish Feminist values to reflect upon ethical practices in Judaism and in the modern world.\n\nFeminist Jewish scholars point out the mistreatment of women in the Torah. They argue that it is an ethical imperative to engage in the interpretation of Torah using a feminist lens. A Jewish Feminist critique of Torah is attentive to phenomena in the text such as the absence, silence, distortion, or subjugation of women in the text. Because the text exhibits a \"normative character of maleness,\" a feminist critique is one in which \"the stage of criticism is never left behind…\"\n\nA common feminist critique of the Torah is noting the degree to which women are absent or silenced. Judith Plaskow writes, \"Half of Jews have been women, but men have been defined as normative Jews, while women's voices and experiences are largely invisible in the record of Jewish belief and experience that has come down to us.\"\n\nRachel Adler invokes the rabbinic concept of Geneivat da'at (\"theft of the mind\") to describe the process by which tradition \"steals the memory of the true face of the other\" by misremembering and misrepresenting women in the text.\n\nFeminists also point out that the targeted audience of the Torah is male. Rachel Adler cites Exodus 19:15, \"And he [Moses] said to the people, 'Be ready for the third day: do not go near a woman.'\" as an example of the male audience of the text. Moreover, Adler argues, when this text is read each year during the holiday of Shavuot, women \"are left standing apart as your mothers stood under the mountain, eavesdropping on the conversation between God and man, wondering if there is anything God wants you to do and, if so – why doesn't He tell you so Himself?\"\n\nHaving identified the patriarchy of the text and the way it has translated into unethical treatment of women, the project of many feminist writers is to reclaim the voices of women in the text. Plaskow writes:\n\nJewish feminist scholars frequently reflect that the Torah portrays woman subordinately. Tamar Ross writes, \"[T]here is no denying that women's subordinate status did receive concrete expression even in biblical times.\" Similarly, Plaskow comments:\n\nThese critiques are challenging from a Jewish perspective because of the centrality of the Torah in the Jewish tradition. Many feminists describe the tension of criticizing that which they hold precious. Tova Hartman, who identifies as Modern Orthodox, describes this tension:\n\nJewish feminists differ in their treatment of source criticism as a tool for feminist biblical criticism. Some Jewish feminists maintain that source critical methods help the reader to identify the historical context and explain the androcentric nature of the text. Orthodox feminist writers take issue with this lens because it rejects the traditional understanding of the origins of the Torah.\n\nRabbinic texts serve as foundational materials for much of Jewish life and practice including both legal and narrative areas of Jewish life. Feminists identify similar issues of patriarchy within rabbinic literature as they do in their critiques of Torah. Just as with Torah, they assert that rabbinic texts silence, subjugate, misremember, and oppress women.\n\nLaurie Zoloth writes that when women read rabbinic text, \"We witness the discussion of our existence as the considered object, largely unnamed, and called only by the name of their relationship to men ('Rabbi Hiyya's wife,' 'the widow,' 'his handmaiden') and often seen only in terms of the most external of features.\" Rachel Adler utilizes object-relations theory, that understands this phenomenon and \"explain that it is because women are not perceived as autonomous subjects in these narratives.\" Zoloth describes that the result of this process is that:\n\nMany Jewish feminist scholars also criticize the imagery rabbinic texts use to describe women and the consequences of those images. Plaskow notes that rabbinic texts frequently portray women as temptresses and connects this imagery to halakhic legislation aimed at controlling women's sexuality. Susan Shapiro identifies the use of the \"married harlot\" image in Maimonides and points to his writings permitting the beating of one's wife. She writes:\n\nThe rabbinic literary genre of midrash is often suggested by feminist thinkers are being particularly well suited to feminist endeavors. Suzanne Stone writes:\n\nSimilarly, Plaskow writes:\n\nSome scholars reject the midrashic approach. Heidi Ravven argues that the claim that texts have \"multiple levels of meaning\" is a \"pre-modern fiction\" that, \"With the advent of scientific historical scholarship of texts we can no longer claim [to be true].\" Ravven suggests that instead of rereading old texts with new ethical understandings, feminists need to confront the Jewish philosophical tradition \"head on\" and create change through this \"philosophic response\".\n\nMany tools characterize a feminist reading of Torah and rabbinic text. Some feminist readings focus on giving voice to otherwise silent women in texts. Plaskow reflects on the characters of Miriam and Dinah, and references to the worship of goddesses as areas of silence and misremembering which are deserving of a voice.\n\nZoloth describes a gendered reading as one that recognizes that the text naturally \"pulls\" in the direction of a male reader. She suggests a type of reading which she calls \"reading like a girl.\" Zoloth explains:\n\nWhile these feminist thinkers, and others like them, suggest readings that in some manner reinterpret or redeem the text, others suggest reading the texts as they are to point out the ethical quandaries present within them. Plaskow refers to this as \"preaching against the text\" and remarks that, \"Remaining silent about the negative aspects of tradition not only leaves them to do their work in the world, it also deprives us of an important spiritual resources.\" [Judith Plaskow, \"Preaching against the text\" in The Coming of Lilith: Essays on Feminism, Judaism, and Sexual Ethics. Boston: Beacon Press, 2005. P.155] Plaskow identifies these spiritual resources as responses to the pain that exists in Jewish communities and that can be alleviated if people use these texts as opportunities to discuss the issues that could be the source of this pain.\n\nLaurie Zoloth poses the question, \"How are religious scholars shaping the moral sense of ethical choices in American life?\" She argues that the voice of Jewish tradition can bring back a voice of community in the face of a culture that values autonomy. Zoloth uses biblical and rabbinic texts to foster an ethic of health care in the United States. She discusses a story in the Talmud to reflect on the issue of micro-allocation of medical resources. The story relates:\n\nZoloth analyzes this, and many other sources, to arrive at ethical language through which society can frame the debate on medical ethics. She write, \"The impoverishment of the community is a real factor, and it must be considered even when a life is at stake. The project of a community as a whole must be affected by the plight of the one, according to Rashi, but there are limits on obligation.\"\n\nIn framing a new discourse on health care, Zoloth offers a feminist ethical reading of the Book of Ruth. She points to passages and themes in Ruth that detail friendship, family, and community depicted as an obligation and a right. She also highlights the themes of loving the community, the value of face-to-face encounters, and the responsibility of the social order to provide for a \"basic minimum\". She concludes, \"What Ruth teaches is that citizenship is solidarity, that meaningful discourse starts with the recognition of the other, and that justice is prior to any human freedom\". This feminist ethical analysis derives its values from the action of a female biblical heroine.\n\nDavid Kraemer notes that when Jewish commentators speak about values or ethics, \"virtually without exception, even when they have claimed to be speaking of values or ethics, their discourse shows that they have really meant Jewish law (Halacha)\". Kraemer constructs an ethical discourse on the topic of abortion that engages traditional rabbinic texts but that does not reflect a standard halachic approach to abortion. Kraemer claims that the \"halachic approach to abortion leads to a dead end.\" but that this approach can evaluate questions such as \"how Jewish traditions view the life or potential life of a fetus, the relationship of the fetus to the mother (and father), and the prerogatives of a mother (and father) with respect to the fetus.\" Kraemer notes that, \"From the ethicist's perspective, the Talmud's inconclusiveness in this matter is its most notable feature.\" Therefore, he concludes that this lack of clarity \"Is the most important characteristic of these various rabbinic discussion. This indecision offers us proper advice; we should hear it as a caution.\"\n\nDonna Berman posits a form of feminist ethics, what she calls nashiut ethics, in which the goal is \"not to redeem oppressive texts, but to redeem Jewish women – and men – from oppressive texts.\" Berman identifies the Jewish value of tikkun olam as an \"essential ingredient\" of faith because it serves to counteract the abuse of mistreatment of women. Berman suggests the topic of globalization as an area on which nashiut ethics can comment because \"it represents well the complex web of race, gender and class issues which are … the defining ingredients of early twenty-first century moral dilemmas.\" Berman then suggests that nashiut ethics would rebel against the forces of greed and exploitation and support the minority and oppressed workers in their struggle for recognition.\n\nRachel Adler points out that the Jewish rituals surrounding marriage stem from biblical and talmudic conceptions of women as property and therefore reflect talmudic rites of property transfer. Adler writes, \"The legal definition, derived from talmudic property law, anachronistically categorizes women as a special kind of chattel over which the husband has acquired rights.\" Because of the patriarchal and unethical roots of this ceremony, Adler proposes a solution that will \"treat both parties consistently as persons rather than as property.\" [Rachel Adler. 1998. Engendering Judaism: An Inclusive Theology and Ethics. Beacon Press: Boston, MA p. 169] Adler outlines a new wedding ceremony based on the sheva brachot (the celebratory blessings bestowed upon a newly married couple) that is compatible with an egalitarian society. Adler refers to this new ceremony as B'rit Ahuvim (a covenant of lovers).\n\nOne of the major source of feminist Jewish ethics literature for Conservative Judaism comes from Judith Plaskow. Growing up in a classical Reform family during the 1950s, Plaskow became interested in theology as a teenager, and was the first Jewish feminist to identify herself as a theologian. She began to write about feminist ethics and the role of women in Judaism in the 1970s, her most famous work being The Coming of Lilith.\n\nPlaskow was part of the Ezrat Nashim, a small Jewish feminist group who presented the \"Call for Change\" to the Rabbinical Assembly of the Conservative movement on March 14, 1972. While the Reform movement was already starting to address the role of women in Judaism, these Conservative women wanted to start a conversation with the heads of the Conservative movement. This call for change represents a liberal feminist stance, arguing for equal access to positions of leadership and religious participation from which Jewish women were excluded because of their gender. The heads of the Conservative movement at the Jewish Theological Seminary of America finally responded to Feminist outcry, and on October 24, 1983 began admitting women into the Rabbinical School.\n\nIn her essay \"The Right Question is Theological\", Plaskow attempts to create a new imagining of Judaism for Conservative women. She argues that \"the Jewish women's movement of the past decade has been and remains a civil-rights movement rather than a movement for \"women's liberation\"\". \nFeminism in Judaism, especially Conservative Judaism, is too concerned with the status of women in religious life, as well as the halakhic language involved with change. She argues that a better focus for women in the Conservative movement would be the origins of the images and treatment of women in the text, and how reinterpretation of these ideas is required for the Conservative movement to evolve as a modern sect of Judaism.\nFeminists in the Conservative movement attempted to apply a feminist lens to Torah, Israel, and God. Through Torah, Jews can uncover women's histories and cultures throughout the biblical period. Analysis of Israel allows members of the Conservative community to look at Jewish women present, equal, and responsible members of the Jewish community. With respect to God, Conservative Jews can analyze halakhah while rejecting the overall patriarchal voice that dominates the religion. Yet there are more fundamental flaws in the theology that must be addressed as well. In particular, the image of God as superior. Arguing for a multiplicity of God images is an essential aspect of Jewish Feminist Theology, and that the role of God as non-hierarchical must be stressed in Conservative feminist Judaism.\n\nConservative feminists also believe that changes in Jewish communal structure with regard to worship contribute to a new understanding of God without the use of a male-dominated metaphor or language. Synagogues and communities that have advocated for women's leadership and allow women to play a larger role in the service gain access to a higher, spiritual diversity, in Chavurah prayer and study. Plaskow supports this, and defends this analysis as theology, claiming that \"an established system can become self-perpetuating and lose its ability for introspection and re-examination of basic premises\"\n\nFundamental sources of Feminist texts in Reform Judaism come from Rachel Adler. Originally married to an Orthodox rabbi, she eventually divorced in 1984 and remarried a committed Reform Jew. Her discontentment with the current status of women in Orthodox Judaism can be seen in her article \"I've Had Nothing Yet, So I Can't Take More\". She believes that some of the fundamental issues in Judaism can never be resolved, and Reform Judaism needs to reevaluate the entire halakhic system in order to assess ideas about women that Reform Judaism currently does not discuss.\n\nFeminist Reform Jews attempt to define what it means to engender Judaism. \"There is not and never was a Judaism unaffected by the gendered perspectives of its transmitters and augmenters\". \nFeminist Reform Jews attempt to explore a reading of the text that inflicts gender equality. the movement has been consciously remaking itself, and this is an attempt to modernize the scripture for contemporary Reform Jews, as Halakhah is too central to the Jewish experience to completely eliminate.\n\nAdler, and many other Reform women, live with conflicted Jewish identities. Women refuse to disavow the sacred stories and texts that are the foundations to Judaism, yet are constantly fighting to make their voice heard in a for-men, by-men religion. \nThese women, and Reform feminist leaders attempt to reconcile a contemporary sense of female equality within Judaism.\n\nHalakhah is not a sufficient narrative, yet it serves as a bridge between reality and the ideal. The goal here is to look at Halakhah as stories. There exists a master narrative that needs to be reinterpreted in Modern Reform Judaism to fit the modern, western American Jews live in today. By juxtaposing different stories, we are able to use this dichotomy between halakhah and aggadah to develop a modern theology that is inclusive of women's experiences in Reform Judaism.\n\nTamar Ross, one of the leading Orthodox Feminists, hopes to outline a path for Orthodoxy that calls for the inclusion of Feminist values and an egalitarian setting in the Orthodox movement. A student of Rav Kook, she argues for change from within Orthodoxy, as opposed to bringing outside information in (different from Modern Orthodoxy). \"It is the Torah that must absorb the world rather than the world the Torah\". \nShe argues for a gradual process through which Orthodoxy can expand to include feminist thought.\n\nOrthodox feminists believe that the Jewish tradition has room to accommodate space for both men and women in the patriarchal master narrative. Following Ross's guidance, Orthodox Jews attempt to \"expanding the palace of Torah\" to accommodate both genders, while also staying true to Orthodoxy and halakhah. \nMany Orthodox Feminist clash with other Jewish Feminists over Dialectical Theology, an understanding of the Torah which \"understands everything said about God as a human effort to convey or recapture certain religious moments\". \nThis is problematic, as it suggests sections of the Torah was not written by God, a fundamental belief of Orthodoxy. Instead, many Orthodox feminists attempt to apply Process Theology to the text. This theology recognizes that God and the world are continually evolving, and everything in the world becomes a partner with God. This technology better fits Orthodoxy, as it does not attempt to challenge the fundamentals of Halakhah in Judaism.\n\nIn Feminism Encounters Traditional Judaism, Tova Hartman, a Modern Orthodox Feminist, explores some of the major points of interest to feminists as it applies to contemporary women in Modern Orthodoxy. She, along with many other Modern Orthodox women, struggle with their own definition of Judaism, and hopes to explore the numerous ways to change feminine participation and experience in Judaism without leaving the comfort of Modern Orthodoxy, the faction of Judaism these women are most familiar with, and hold their alliance to. Hartman's major topics of exploration include countering the patrilineal focus of biblical Judaism, the conflicting nature of male-regulated niddah rulings, and the benefits of experience women would provide to Judaism as a whole with a more united voice and active role. These topics are explored through three different responses: affirmation, rejection, and reinterpretation. Ultimately, Hartman supports the reinterpretation model, but all responses are available to Feminists critiquing the role of women in Modern Orthodoxy. Traditional representations of women are no longer acceptable, and Hartman attempts to lead women in the Modern Orthodox movement into a new era of Jewish Orthodoxy.\nBlu Greenberg, a second leading Modern Orthodox feminist, attempts to address the needs for reform within the leaders of Modern Orthodoxy. She claims that what Modern Orthodoxy needs today is \"the creation of a dialectical tension between Jewish values and the mores of modern society in light of the far reaching implications of women's liberation\". \nTapping into how feminism relates directly to Judaism, how Halakha can apply directly to both genders, niddah, and the role of Jewish women in the family.\n\nOne of Greenberg's leading points is that a larger role for women in Modern Orthodoxy shouldn't be equated to \"adding a fifth fringe on the tzitzit or a fifth variety to the lulav\". \nWomen struggle to find their place in Modern Orthodoxy outside the stereotypical \"mothering\" role that has been the standard for years. Following Greenberg, Modern Orthodox feminists attempt to apply Halakha universally to male and female roles, without fundamentally altering history, the text, or all moral obligations.\n\nTo glean knowledge from this section, it is important to note that the definition of theology is understood as \"the systematic and rational study of concepts of deity and of the nature of religious truths\".\nFeminist ethics with the addition of a Jewish lens hosts a variety of theological opinions with differing views of what Feminist Jewish Ethics entails. While some discuss the language and figures of speech like metaphors, others weigh more heavily regarding the foundations of the religion and its male authoritative figures or simply the stories that tell the master-narrative, the juris-generative, communal ideas that re-calibrate the social norm.\n\nJudith Plaskow wrote about use of masculine pronouns and the patriarchy dominated nature of Judaism. In her book, \"Standing Again at Sinai\", she claims that there is \"a sense of fluidity, movement, and multiplicity, [a] daring interweaving of women's experiences with Jewish, Native American, and Goddess imagery that leaves the reader/hearer with an expanded sense of what is possible in speaking of/to God\". To Plaskow, the homogeneous use of language is one of the main proponents of the patriarchal nature of Judaism. Plaskow's theology, while fully acknowledging that the metaphors and images of God are man-made, notes that the language forms out of a societal standard. Therefore, when change occurs socially, so too must the method of approaching law. From Plaskow's perspective, \"To expand Torah, we must reconstruct Jewish history to include the history of women, and in doing so alter the shape of Jewish memory.\" Plaskow's notions of relabeling and re-figuring the language used to describe higher power suggest that the current system of Judaism cannot continue in any form egalitarianism because without common language, there will forever be a separation between male and female. Contrasting thinkers, like Tamar Ross, still see the need for an inclusion, but find that need to be inherently non-Jewish and in opposition to the fundamental theology on which the religion is based.\n\nWithin approaches to theology, however, the sole focus does not come from how God is or isn't addressed or the language surrounding a Feminist Jewish ethic. Many thinkers have stepped away from focusing on the language and instead, looked at the content.\nRachel Adler suggests that halakha itself is too central to Judaism, that a perpetual cycle where men create the language and the law that all are expected to follow is detrimental to the future of Judaism, but that it is still necessary to the essence of Judaism. Blu Greenberg brought the phrase \"where there is a rabbinic will, there is a halakhic way\" to Jewish feminism in 1981, printed within the pages of her book \"On Women and Judaism.\" Greenberg's understanding of Jewish theology is contingent on the texts that have shaped its existence in the 21st century.\n\nRabbi Donna Berman, Ph. D. formed her theology through the method of Nashiut Ethics, an ethical system of \"doing Jewish ethics\" that revolves around lived experience, rather than the law or texts that are included within the greater Jewish canon. For Berman, those that have been marginalized will never be heard unless they are asked, unless their experiences are brought to the table to show what is true for the Jewish people within a societal context. Her ethical system is based on those found in Ada Maria Isasi-Diaz's mujerista theology and womanism, committed to equality and social justice, and strays farthest from presenting Jewish source texts or basing her thought in any form of Halakha, Jewish law. Berman's theology pieces together some of Adler and Plaskow's thoughts, while still pulling from completely different schools of thought within feminist Judaism. By uncovering the stories of the disenfranchised, Nashiut Ethics offers an opportunity to change the language that Judaism uses. According to Berman, the voices that were never heard before, those who never had the chance to speak up, either because they weren't asked anything or they weren't asked the right questions. Upon opening the doors for a new conversation, the barriers set forth by a patriarchal system are broken down. Through this methodology, Judaism can prosper and progress relative to society and the conditions of the time.\n\nWhile ethicists are able to come up with Feminist approaches to Judaism, this often becomes complicated when examining specific rituals and practices of Judaism. When examining the practice and actions of Judaism, as opposed to the thoughts and beliefs, many issues arise. Before delving into each individually, it is important to remember that even within this alternative area of study, the issues take a slant towards catering to the normative, western individual's narrative. Deirdre Butler warns against this in her 'Disturbing Boundaries: Developing Jewish Feminist Ethics with Buber, Levinas, and Fackenheim' (2012).\n\n\"Similarly, the specific issues raised by normative narratives about able-bodiedness, heterosexuality, and gender identity in the Jewish tradition, let to experiences of marginalization and injustice that are too often not discerned by many Jewish feminist. Finally North American Jewish feminists need to be wary of the ways in which North Americans still dominate Jewish feminists discourse in the academy and at the level of activism\"\n\nAlmost all Jewish feminist ethicists struggle with finding women's place in the liturgy while still maintaining a level of tradition. However, within this there are a few different approaches; some believe that women need to find their place in what exists, other ethicists think that something new needs to be created. Others think that what exists needs to be reclaimed and reappropriated.\n\nIn 1990 Judith Plaskow introduced the consciousness of women being present at Sinai. While women were left out of the narrative of being present when the Jewish people received the Torah that does not mean that women do not have that claim over it; she argues it is up to women to engage in the reshaping of the reading of Torah as well as reshaping the Jewish community as a whole. She points out that Jewish feminists have continuously implemented rituals and written liturgy that come from women's experiences such as Rosh Chodesh or Feminist Haggadot for Pesach. To Plaskow, this is the most ethical way for women to own Jewish liturgy without denouncing traditional practice; as she believes that the current liturgy isn't something to dismiss. Rachel Adler takes a similar stance writing that inclusion and tradition are not enemies. That being said, she does think that it is harmful to push women to the peripheral and dangerous for them to accept marginalized prayer and practice. Therefore, for Adler this is not enough, as it does not actually impact Jewish liturgy as a whole. To her the ideal is taking the traditional liturgy that is in place and making it gender inclusive, filling it with feminist imagery and language. Tova Hartman offers something different aligning herself with Maimonides and takes his permission to change the liturgy in order to \"facilitate a greater sense of connection between the subjective self-image of the supplicants and words they use to pray\". Still, this idea is complicated by the fact that it is challenging to create a universal meaningful prayer that connects to people's subjective experiences. Both Rachel Adler and Blu Greenberg argues that the first step to women finding their place in Jewish obligations and prayer is educating them on the intricacies of Halakha. Only from there can women be adequately integrated and take on leadership roles, truly redefining women's place in Judaism.\n\nAll Jewish feminist ethicists see that there is a problem in the way the laws of a Jewish marriage are laid out; specifically they question the laws of Agunah. While it is almost universally challenged there is some variation in the nuances of where ethicists take issue with Agunah. Plaskow recognizes that when established the Rabbis were acting and making laws within a framework that had fundamental and systemic inequalities. While this is a law that is specifically oppressive and harmful, she sees it in the larger context of Jewish law which as whole both others and limits women. As an Orthodox Jew Blu Greenberg struggles with Agunah and the fact that she sees a place where Halakha as harmful. Greenberg acknowledges the potential for abuse in Jewish divorce law. Furthermore, in Greenberg's work of talking to and interviewing women she sees that despite there being some rabbis who resolve individual cases of divorce with compassion, the process as a whole is very humiliating for women [9].\n\nRachel Adler writes more extensively on the subject both critiquing Jewish marriage and offering an alternative model. Adler find the traditional Halakha to be very much lacking a mutuality, pushing back on the scriptures description of marriage as an ownership that is upheld by the rabbis in law. In creating a new model Adler looked for a way to bring mutuality in, balancing the needs of the individuals. Ultimately she settles on a template based on that of a business partnership as this lends itself to the communal standards that address economic and welfare issues. She calls this a theory of Brit Ahuvim, a contract of love. She recognizes the history of oppression and separation that women have faced and this her attempt to work towards equality in marriage and divorce law while still refusing to reject Halakha; rather this is a reconstruction and reconfiguration of tradition\n\nOne of the few existing rituals that is in place solely for women is the Mikveh. The idea of women purifying themselves in a ritual bath has caused much discussion and an overall lack of unity on if this practice is ethical and/or feminists. Hartman speaks to the ways that the Mikveh actually gives women power and enables them to use their bodies as sexual weapons. Essentially she is saying that because women decide when they go to the Mikveh and go through the purifying ritual they then have the power to withhold their bodies and withhold sex from their spouses. Greenberg 12 takes an alternative approach and through interviews finds that most women actually value and see the Mikveh as a positive ritual in Judaism and in their lives. While she briefly problematizes Mikvehs, mostly she focuses on how the ritual has been modernized and how women have come to feel grateful for the obligation. Adler 13 touches on the ethical implications of this ritual and what it means for women. Because she sees women as peripherally involved in Judaism she sees the practice of going to the Mikveh as perpetuating this. To Adler, while going to the Mikveh is a traditional ritual exclusively done by women, its purpose is to enable men to complete mitzvot. Adler sees it as such: women go to the mikveh and engage in this ritual of purification so that her husband can have intercourse with her and so that she will bear children - an exclusively male mitzvah. Thus, Adler sees this ritual as supremely unethical. Outside of these texts there are currently many efforts working towards helping women reclaim this ritual and enabling them to have it be something empowering in their lives. Still, it cannot be ignored that there is a ritual in Jewish tradition that requires women to purify themselves in a way that has no parallel to male purification.\n\nNiddah is one of the most extensive rituals that women are required to perform in Judaism. The laws are very intricate and only the most educated rabbis, male of course, have the authority and education to relay the rules to women. Because of this, and the nature of how women are forced to defer to male authority, in what is often a very humiliating way, many Jewish thinkers; including ethicists and feminists, see the laws and practices of Niddah as both unethical and anti-feminists.\n\nIn Tova Hartman's interviews of women who practice niddah she experienced a wide variety of reactions to and feelings on this ritual. While not all felt this way there were many who expressed feeling that this ritual was oppressive, dehumanizing, suffocating, demoralizing, and even a divestment of their personal power. The laws of niddah were established by men and opposed onto women. While niddah contributes to the hostility towards female sexuality, it is representative of the larger perspective towards the nature of sexuality in Judaism. Many women experience the laws rigidity and their obligation to adhere to them as causing both emotional and physical strain. This is further perpetuated by the authoritarian male structure that is in place. When describing the feelings they have when going through the process of having to go to a male rabbi and have him inspect the bloodstain, many touched on the aspect of a loss of their agency and power. While not specific to niddah, niddah is an extreme example of women being forced into passivity due to a lack of education; even thought they are the ones forced to abide by the laws. The lack of power and impact that this ritual has on women, as well as its sheer rigor, has called into question how ethical it is from a Jewish and feminist perspective.\n\nDespite a great amount of push-back there are some women who see niddah as a positive part of their lives. Plaskow points out that it was women who strengthened the laws of niddah (although their motives are unknown). In Hartman's interviews she found that some appreciated the regulation it provided and how it respected women's biological-emotional needs. Similarly, there were some who spoke about how the ritual allowed for them to focus on a transitional period, others on how it sanctioned sexual desires within the framework of marriage. While problematic in its own right, some women were grateful for the protection it gave them against sexual advances they did not want to partake in. Greenberg sees niddah as Judaism's way of safeguarding women against becoming mere sex objects.\n\nTamara Ross sees the holiness in this practice as a means of seeing the ethicality of it. Ross sees the fixed period of separation from her husband that women go into as parallel to the periods of separation that God enters when affording the world the opportunity to amass new creative powers. There is also much written on this separation in regards to Jewish mysticism; seeing God as female and the force of purification and protection. By identifying niddah with holiness the necessity of this observance is confirmed. Similarly, doing this affirms women's own sense of self-worth by portraying God in their likeness. Some women express that niddah adds holiness to their primal, sexual urges. The argument is made that by reclaiming this observance and reappropriating it with the needs of women, this practice can be considered both ethical and feminists.\n\nSexuality, specifically female sexuality, is something that Judaism values. The idea of Onah, or male obligation to sexually satisfy his wife speaks to this. However, as Adler says, \"The theological ethics of sexuality is to bridge the chasm between what is and what out to be\". Female sexuality is seen and talked about in Judaism, as something possessed by men. The question of ethics comes in when examining the language used to talk about sexuality. Similarly to niddah, seeing the holiness in sexuality has allowed for sexuality to be seen in an ethical way.\n\nOne aspect of sexuality that Jewish feminist ethicists challenge is the heterocentrism that is implicit in Judaism and in traditional texts. Plaskow in particular accuses the authorities that have led the development of Jewish tradition, creating and enforcing a system that condemns homosexuality and ignores lesbianism. She draws on her own experiences and identity, as well as different Jewish sources, in attempt to redefine human sexuality as open and fluid; she offers a re-reading of biblical texts as a means of defining a new ethical.\n\nAs reproductive justice is an integral part of feminist activism and essential to the movement, Jewish feminists feel they must address this ethical issue. While Jewish ethics has its own approach to reproductive justice, Jewish feminist ethics offer something different. There is the recognition for many that as a mother and especially as a Jewish mother it is hard for these writers to think about abortion. Beyond that, there is the recognition that as Jewish women, it is hard for many to claim direction over the bodies given how much of halakhah takes this agency away from women. There is the constant trouble of trying to find a balance between the needs of women and the demands of halakhah – abortion is no exception to this struggle of Jewish feminist ethics.\n\nDavid Kraemer offers a perspective that suggests it is possible to derive an ethical from traditional sources that fall outside of the ways of Halakha. He argues that it is not about deciding what is and is not permissible; rather it is about the fundamental values embedded in the tradition and asking the right questions. He makes the distinction between legal proscription and ethical imperative. While this argument is not distinct to abortion, or even reproductive justice as a whole, Kraemer sees women's needs in direct opposition to the Halakha and therefore sees being pro-choice as essential and permissible regardless.\n\nMany of the theologians, authors, and ethicists who represent Feminist Jewish Ethics were inspired and influenced by previous thinkers and philosophies.\n\nCarol Gilligan is an American Jewish feminist and ethicist whose work has significantly influenced the Feminist Jewish Ethics movement. In her psychological studies, Gilligan is concerned with male and female differences in moral development. In her book \"In a Different Voice\": Psychological Theory and Women's Development, Gilligan challenges preconceived notions, particularly in the field of psychology, that suggest that women lack the abilities to understand and make moral judgments. She argues that men and women take different approaches to defining morality, which she concludes after interviewing women about their respective definitions and approaches to morality. Her findings showed that women are more apologetic and generally feel they have an obligation to help and care for others and act morally, whereas males tend to see morality as a matter of justice and respecting the rights of others.\n\nOther Jewish ethicists have been influenced by Gilligan and have mentioned her in their respective works. In her book \"Expanding the Palace of Torah: Orthodoxy and Feminism\", author Tamar Ross argues for a continued conversation allowing for a gradual process through which Orthodoxy can come to expand itself to include feminist thought and practices. Ross references Gilligan in order to define \"feminism\" simply for her readers and define \"uniquely feminine ways of thinking\", particularly when it comes to morality. Laurie Zoloth engages with Carol Gilligan's anthropological research and assertion that women experience the world differently from men.\n\nEmmanuel Levinas was a French Jewish philosopher and Talmud Scholar who argues for the importance of a Jewish ethic. In his philosophical works he distinguishes between totality and infinity, the latter referring to the spiritual world. Levinas argues that infinity extends beyond totality. He associates totality with ontology, and infinity with ethics, prioritizing ethics over ontology.\n\nLevinas introduces the concept of the \"Other\", arguing that the needs of \"the Other\" should come before oneself, or \"the I\".\n\nDeidre Butler—an author, professor, and feminist— examines Levinas from a feminist viewpoint. Butler is critical of Levinas in that he perpetuates binary oppositions, which place \"feminine\" and \"masculine\", and \"self\" and \"other\", on opposite ends of a spectrum. Butler asserts that \"it is very difficult to disentangle a philosophical category that relies on stereotypes that both signal and enact the oppression and marginalization of women.\"\n\nLaurie Zoloth, a medical ethics and religion professor at Northwestern University and author of \"Health Care and the Ethics of Encounter\", also draws upon the works of Levinas. In her book, Zoloth analyzes and criticizes the healthcare crisis in America, maintaining that we should turn to the Jewish tradition in order to guide us in creating an appropriate ethic. Zoloth draws on Levinas' ethical theory and concept of the 'other,' in order to contextualize that the healthcare crisis is a problem within a community. For Levinas, community is an organized group in which every individual sees himself or herself in relation to the 'other'. According to Zoloth, ethics cannot exist without a sense of community and the other; she stresses that ethical decisions are made with the 'other' in our consciousness. This thought is influenced by Levinas, who constantly stresses the importance of how one treats his or her neighbor, or the other. The concept of community and the 'other' also surrounds Jewish ethics because every individual is responsible for the 'other' and the community serves as a group of listeners; the voice of God also contains a sense of the 'other'. Zoloth explains that \"the halakhic system uses the encounter with the Torah text and the encounter with the other's encounter with the text to create a continuous discursive community.\"\n\nFeminist theory often describes women as being \"otherized\" – in a male-dominated culture, women are often viewed as \"other\" in relation to men.\n\nMartin Buber is a 20th-century philosopher who is known for his book \"I and Thou\", in which he outlines two different kinds of relationships. An \"I-it\" relationship consists of an individual's attitude toward an object and is something that said individual experiences. In contrast, an \"I-Thou\" relationship involves two people who are participating, rather than experiencing. While the \"I-Thou\" relationship is considered stronger, both types of relationship are significant and bring the individuals involved closer to God. 5 An I-Thou relationship must involve both parties, but not necessarily to an equal extent.\n\nMany feminists see the \"I-Thou\" relationship as essential to feminist thought, as it requires being \"attentive to the Thou and precludes treating the Other as one's object.\"3 Feminism, by definition, suggests an equal status and power relations among men and women. Therefore, in order to apply this theology to feminist thought, one must ensure that the relationship is equal, as Buber suggests that the relationship can be unbalanced in some situations. Thus, Buber's philosophy from a Jewish feminist lens must be appropriated to \"preclude unethical power relations.\"\n\nRobert Cover, a Yale law professor and scholar, has influenced many Jewish feminist ethicists, such as Rachel Adler. Cover suggests that there are two different types of law, imperialistic and jurisgenerative. Imperialistic law focuses on authority and the enforcement of rules, whereas jurisgenerative law constitutes communal ideas. Cover favors jurisgenerative style law in that it represents paidea, the highest ideal of the community. Cover distinguishes what is and what ought to be: what exists, and what the ideal is.\n\nRachel Adler, a Jew who was raised orthodox and initially married orthodox, divorced and became reform and was ordained incorporates Cover's theologies. She claims that halakhah, or Jewish law, serves as the connection between past and present Jewish worlds. Adapting Cover's terms, Adler see imperialistic law as the way that halakhah currently functions and has functioned throughout time, according to Adler. Like Cover, however, Adler favors jurisgenerative law, as these are the ideals found in Adler's Master Narrative, or ethical ideal for the community. Unlike many other Jewish feminists, Adler does not reject halakhah, despite her acknowledgement that women's voices were excluded from the narrative.\n\nHermann Cohen was a philosopher who lived from 1842-1918 who held many of the same philosophical beliefs as Immanuel Kant, but applied to Judaism. Cohen also sees ethics as what \"ought to be\" in the social world, as opposed to seeing what \"is\" as a current state of affairs that is unchangeable. According to Cohen, only God falls into both categories of what \"is\" and what \"ought to be\". According to Cohen, ethics are equivalent to what ought to be. Jewish feminist ethicists have use Cohen's Kantian ideas by expressing their ideals for equality for women in Judaism as what ought to be.\n\nSigmund Freud, an Austrian psychologist and psychoanalyst who lived from 1856 to 1939. Freud's psychology still serves as the basis for psychological studies today. Tova Hartman, a professor, ethicist, and psychologist, studies Freud and incorporates some of his research into her book Feminism Encounters Traditional Judaism: Resistance and Accommodation.\nHartman introduces three models of understanding Freudian concepts. She suggests that these models—the reaffirmation, reinterpretation/revisionist, and the rejection model—should be utilized to understand the Canon from a more feminist lens. The reaffirmation model suggests that any idea, so long as someone 'authoritative' posits it, should be accepted as true. This is problematic in a Jewish context in that it denotes that the canonical text and its authors are the sole authorities. The reinterpretation/revisionist model entails reappropriating and lending new meaning to concepts in the text without losing the value of the original context. When applying these models to the Jewish canon, Hartman favors the reinterpretation/revisionist approach for Jewish education, as it is the one that most \"challenges its adherents to be in a constant state of engaging and reengaging with the traditional texts\". The rejection model is also not ideal in that it would completely reject the entire Canon.\n\nWomanism and Mujerista theologies have influenced scholars such as Rabbi Donna Berman, whose dissertation, Nashiut Ethics: Articulating a Jewish Feminist Ethics of Safekeeping, describes a new ethical approach to Jewish feminism. Nashiut Ethics is a form of Jewish Feminist Ethics that Berman develops that focuses not on Torah or halakhah, which she claims have \"otherized\" the woman's narrative, but on stories and experiences of women who have been neglected within the Jewish tradition. Like Nashiut ethics, womanist and mujerista theologies provide voices to justice-seeking women who have been neglected within their respective racial, ethnic, and religious groups.\n\nWomanism is the movement that seeks to eliminate gender oppression specifically for black women. The movement incorporates literature, ethics, history, and everyday experiences, all of which focus on the black woman's narrative. Katie Cannon, in particular, is associated with the origins of the womanist movement. Cannon asserts that Black Women's voices have historically been ignored; she is one of many women in the womanist movement who was not ashamed to be perceived as radical or take risks. Nashiut ethics is inspired by this model for this reason. Berman asserts that, \"Nashiut ethics, like womanist ethics, involves a transvaluation of values, a reclaiming of that which has been repressed and punished in the name of preserving a male constructed femininity which fosters the perpetuation of male power.\"\n\nAlong the same lines, mujerista theology provides insight into the perspectives, history, literature, and experiences of American Latina women. Ada Maria Isasi-Diaz, the theologian who founded the movement, is known for her use of ethnographic interviews of Latina women in her mujerista works. Influenced by Diaz, Berman makes use of ethnography in her dissertation to shed light on the neglected women's voices in Rabbinic Judaism.\n\nDonna Berman specifies, that, like womanist and mujerista theologies, the purpose of Nashiut ethics is to create a place for women who have been neglected and \"otherized\" in history. Nashiut ethics incorporates the narratives of the feminist African American and Hispanic communities, as she is committed to creating equality and a voice for \"every faith and racial/ethnic group.\"\n\nWhile most Jewish feminist ethicists and thinkers agree that Judaism can be inadequate to the requirements of feminism, many have oppositional views towards methods of solving this problem, and are thus critical of each other's works. Some of this criticism occurs overtly, but much of it does not reference a specific author. Rather the criticism remains assumed; when one author puts forth an idea that disagrees with that of another, it can be understood to be a criticism of the other's work.\n\nFor the most part, Jewish feminist thinkers seem to avoid specifically criticizing each other. Even authors like Tova Hartman and Rachel Adler, whose theologies and ideas are very dissimilar, avoid criticizing the other openly. While they disagree with each other's methodologies and opinions (see above), and respond to each other's works, open criticism is kept to a minimum within the genre.\n\nReferences to other authors are most often used as positive examples, and focus on the commonalities between works, rather than the differences. Disagreeing authors, rather than attacking the works of another, will often let their works speak for themselves, setting themselves up as another option in thought, rather than an opponents. Despite the great divides in opinion, and the many disagreements, actual criticism rarely occurs.\n\nMany Jewish feminist thinkers, including Judith Plaskow and Rachel Adler support the addition of female centered language into the liturgy. Some authors disagree with this premise. Cynthia Ozick, for example, is very critical of this technique, and argues that using female god language would be equivalent to the reassumption of idolatry. For her, referring to God as \"Queen of the universe\" (rather than \"King of the universe\" harkens back to the fertility cults of ancient goddesses, and would be unacceptable. Plaskow adamantly disagrees with Ozick here. In her work \"Standing Again at Sinai\", Plaskow criticizes Ozick's arguments, saying that these new prayers do not set up a Goddess next to God, but rather expand God's image.\n\nPlaskow, Adler, and Ozick often criticized each other's works, using essays to respond to each other. Plaskow's article \"The Right Question is Theological\" is a refutation of Adler's \"The Jew Who Wasn't There\" and Ozick's \"Notes Toward the Right Direction.\" In her article, Plaskow criticizes Ozick and Adler for being too focused on making changes to halakha to fit feminist needs, and for not discussing the Judaism's underlying theological problems. Plaskow is especially critical of Ozick's 1979 article\"Notes toward finding the right question,\" in which Ozick argues that Judaism does not inherently subordinate women, but rather that the subordination Jewish women face come from \"historical custom and practice.\" In her article, Plaskow argues against this statement, saying that Judaism's underlying theology is problematic in and of itself. But in her discussion of Ozick, Plaskow is less critical of Ozick's ideas than of her silence on the issue of theology. Plaskow wants to expand the discussion on theology; it is Ozick's unwillingness to do so that prompts Plaskow's criticism. Adler responded to the criticism that she was overly focused on halakha by writing first an article, then a book, outlying ideas regarding Jewish feminist theology.\n"}
{"id": "16144544", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16144544", "title": "Freedom of religion in Indonesia", "text": "Freedom of religion in Indonesia\n\nThe Indonesian constitution provides for freedom of religion. The government generally respects religious freedom for the six officially recognized religions: Islam, Protestantism, Catholicism, Hinduism, Buddhism, and Confucianism. However, ongoing restrictions, particularly on religions not sanctioned by the government and sects of the recognized religions considered deviant, are exceptions. Questioning any of the six above can lead to five years in prison for \"insulting a major religion\" and six more years if the Internet is used.\n\nAccording to Christian Solidarity Worldwide religious intolerance is increasing and spreading nationwide, even between Muslim groups.\n\nAccording to the 2010 census, 87% percent of the population is Muslim, 7% Protestant, 3% Catholic, 2% Hindu, 1% Buddhist, <1% Confucianism, <1% other, and <1% unstated or not asked.\n\nMost Muslims in the country are Sunni. The two largest Muslim social organizations, Nahdlatul Ulama and Muhammadiyah, claimed 40 million and 30 million Sunni followers, respectively. There are also an estimated one million to three million Shi'a Muslims.\n\nThe constitution provides for freedom of religion, accords \"all persons the right to worship according to their own religion or belief,\" and states that \"the nation is based upon belief in one supreme God.\" The first tenet of the country's national ideology, Pancasila, similarly declares belief in one God. The government does not allow for not believing in God. Government employees must swear allegiance to the nation and to the Pancasila ideology. Other laws and policies placed restrictions on certain types of religious activity, particularly among unrecognized religious groups and \"deviant\" sects of recognized religious groups. The central government did not invoke its constitutional authority to review or revoke local laws that violated freedom of religion.\n\nAceh remained the only province authorized by the central government to implement Islamic law (Shari'a), and non-Muslims in the province remained exempt from Shari'a. Some local governments outside of Aceh also have laws with elements of Shari'a that abrogate certain rights of women and religious minorities. Aceh adopted a Shari'a based penal code imposing physical punishment for violations.\n\nThe Ministry of Religious Affairs extends official status to six religious groups: Islam, Catholicism, Protestantism, Buddhism, Hinduism, and Confucianism. Unrecognized groups may register with the Ministry of Culture and Tourism as social organizations. Although these groups have the right to establish a house of worship, obtain identity cards, and register marriages and births, they sometimes face administrative difficulties in doing so. In some cases these challenges make it more difficult for individuals to find jobs or enroll children in school. Legally, identity card applications are now acceptable when the \"religion\" section is left blank; however, members of some groups reported that they sometimes faced obstacles.\n\nThe three decades long ban on freedom to organize was lifted from the Bahá'í Faith the year 2000, but the Bahá'í believers are not allowed to have outreach activities and must organize their meetings only within the Bahá'í community. Bahá'í is tolerated, but it is understood that it may not expand. Activities such as door to door transmission, events open for non-Bahá'ís and spreading of brochures are forbidden. The website has repeatedly been switched off, and the Bahá'í center in Jakarta was abandoned during most of 2013 and 2014\n\nThe 2006 Revised Joint Ministerial Decrees on Construction of Houses of Worship, which has been criticized as unconstitutional, requires any group attempting to build a house of worship to obtain signatures from 90 potential members, 60 households of a different faith, and various local authorities.\n\nAmnesty International reports that the Ahmadiyya community is increasingly targeted and at least four provinces issued new regional regulations restricting Ahmadiyya activities. By the end of 2011, at least 18 Christian churches had been attacked or forced to shut down. In addition, Shi'a Muslims are at increased risk of attack and are being pressured by anti-Shi'a groups to convert to Sunni Islam.\n\nIn addition to the Ahmadiyya, according to the Indonesian Communion of Churches and the Wahid Institute, local government officials and local communities forced the closing of at least 28 licensed and unlicensed churches during the reporting period. Many of the targeted churches operated in private homes and storefronts, and some churches moved their services to rented spaces in public shopping malls to lessen the potential of threats from hardline groups.\n\nExamples of clashes:\n\n\nIn 2010, controversy over the Ahmadiyya continued with hardline groups renewing attacks and demanding that the government disband the Ahmadiyya. Rallies continued throughout the country both for and against a ban. Civil rights activists, members of the Presidential Advisory Council, and leaders from Muhammadiyah and Nadhlatul Ulama continued to assert that any such ban would be unconstitutional and contrary to the principles of Islam.\n\nTajul Muluk, a Shi'a Muslim religious leader from East Java, was sentenced on 12 July 2012, to two years' imprisonment for blasphemy by the Sampang District Court. Tajul Muluk was displaced with over 300 other Shi'a villagers on 29 December 2011, when an anti-Shi'a mob of some 500 people attacked and burned houses, a boarding school and a Shi'a place of worship in Nangkrenang village, Sampang, Madura island. Only one person was charged and sentenced to three months’ imprisonment for the attacks. Afterwards most of the Shi'a displaced by the attack returned to Nangkrenang village. But Tajul Muluk and about 20 other villagers, including his family, were prevented from returning to the village by the attackers, who reportedly threatened to kill them if they returned, and by the police.\n\nOn 1 January 2012 a religious decree (fatwa) was issued by the Sampang branch of the Indonesia Ulema Council (MUI) about what they described as Tajul Muluk's \"deviant teachings\", and two days later a police report was filed against him. On 16 March, the East Java regional police charged Tajul Muluk with blasphemy under Article 156(a) of the Indonesian Criminal Code, and with \"offensive actions\" under Article 335 of the Code. The indictment accused Tajul Muluk of telling his followers that the Qur'an is not the authentic text of Islam. His trial began at the Sampang District Court on 24 April 2012 and he was sentenced to two years in prison on 12 July 2012 under Article 156(a). Following the verdict Tajul Muluk reportedly said he would lodge an appeal.\n\nAlexander Aan, a 30-year-old civil servant from Pulau Punjung subdistrict in West Sumatera province gave up his belief in God as he considered the current state of the world. He was reportedly an active member of the Minang atheist Facebook group. He allegedly posted statements and pictures which some people construed as insulting Islam and the prophet Mohammad. On 18 January 2012 an angry crowd who had heard about his alleged Facebook posts gathered at his workplace and threatened to beat him. Police officers intervened and took him to the Pulau Punjung Sub-District police station for his safety. On 20 January he was charged for \"disseminating information aimed at inciting religious hatred or hostility\" under Article 28 (2) of the Electronic Information and Transaction (ITE) Law, religious blasphemy under Article 156a(a) of the Indonesian Criminal Code and calling for others to embrace atheism under Article 156a(b) of the same code. His trial began at the Muaro District Court on 2 April 2012. On 14 June the court sentenced him to two and a half years' imprisonment and a fine of 100 million rupiah (US$10,600) for violating the Electronic Information and Transaction (ITE) Law.\n\nAccording to the U.S. State Department's 2010 report on the status of religious freedom in Indonesia, there were numerous areas of improvements in religious freedom during that year. Representatives of the Confucian community continued to practice their religion freely as well as obtain marriage certificates and identity cards with Confucianism listed as their religion.\n\nLocal government officials in West Nusa Tenggara (NTB) recognized the marriages of Ahmadiyya followers. Officials from the NTB Department of Religion conducted weddings in the Ahmadiyya Transito Camp for Ahmadiyya couples and recorded and issued marriage certificates. Ahmadiyya followers experienced little or no difficulty registering their marriages or getting marriage certificates during the reporting period.\n\nIn Maluku, despite new incidents of violence during the reporting period, leaders of both the Muslim and Christian communities and the Maluku provincial government continued to demonstrate strong commitment to easing religious tension and rebuilding the community.\n\nBy contrast a report from Christian Solidarity Worldwide suggests intolerance is increasing.\n\nEvidences from international human rights organization including Human Rights Watch and Amnesty International found that the Indonesian government has been sponsoring migrations of Muslims from Java and other Muslim-majority provinces into Christian areas such as Papua, West Papua, North Sulawesi, West Sulawesi, Muluku, East Nusa Tenggara, and West Nusa Tenggara in an attempt to dislodge Christian and indigenous minorities and to block separatist attempts. International media has been banned from reporting the migrations, especially in the western part of New Guinea, where international media was blocked in Papua and West Papua by Jakarta.\n\n"}
{"id": "11631732", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11631732", "title": "Gabr", "text": "Gabr\n\nGabr () (also \"geuber\", \"geubre\", \"gabrak\", \"gawr\", \"gaur\", \"gyaur\", \"gabre\") is a New Persian term originally used to denote a Zoroastrian.\n\nHistorically, \"gabr\" was a technical term synonymous with \"mōg\", \"magus\", denoting a follower of Zoroastrianism, and it is with this meaning that the term is attested in very early New Persian texts such as the \"Shahnameh\". In time, \"gabr\" came to have a pejorative implication and was superseded in literature by the respectable \"Zardoshti\", \"Zoroastrian\".\n\nBy the 13th century the word had come to be applied to a follower of any religion other than Islam, and it has \"also been used by the Muslim Kurds, Turks, and some other ethnic groups in modified forms to denote various religious communities other than Zoroastrians, sometimes even in the sense of unbeliever.\" As a consequence of the curtailment of social rights, non-Muslims were compelled to live in restricted areas, which the Muslim populace referred to as \"Gabristan\"s.\n\nIn the Ottoman Empire, the Turkish version \"gâvur\", borrowed into English via French as \"giaour\", was used to refer to Christians. This is sometimes still used today in former Ottoman territories and carries a strong pejorative meaning.\n\nThe etymology of the term is uncertain. \"In all likelihood,\" \"gabr\" derives from the Aramaic \"gabrā\", spelt \"GBRʼ\", which – in written Middle Iranian languages – serves as an ideogram that would be read as an Iranian language word meaning \"man.\" (for the use of ideograms in Middle Iranian languages, see \"Pahlavi scripts\"). During the Sasanian Empire (226-651), the ideogram signified a free (i.e. non-slave) peasant of Mesopotamia. Following the collapse of the empire and the subsequent rise of Islam, it \"seems likely that \"gabr\" used already in Sassanian times in reference to a section of Zoroastrian community in Mesopotamia, had been employed by the converted Persians in the Islamic period to indicate their Zoroastrian compatriots, a practice that later spread throughout the country.\"\n\nIt has also been suggested that \"gabr\" might be a mispronunciation of Arabic \"kafir\" \"unbeliever,\" but this theory has been rejected on linguistic grounds both phonetic and semantic: \"there is no unusual sound in \"kafir\" that would require phonetic modification\", and \"kafir\" as a generic word probably would not refer to a specific revealed religion such as Zoroastrianism.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "321237", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=321237", "title": "Genizah", "text": "Genizah\n\nA genizah (or geniza; Hebrew: \"storage\"; plural: genizot or genizoth or genizahs) is a storage area in a Jewish synagogue or cemetery designated for the temporary storage of worn-out Hebrew-language books and papers on religious topics prior to proper cemetery burial.\n\nThe word \"genizah\" comes from the Hebrew triconsonantal root \"g-n-z\", which means \"hiding\", and originally meant \"to hide\" or \"to put away\". Later, it became a noun for a place where one put things, and is perhaps best translated as \"archive\" or \"repository\".\n\nGenizot are temporary repositories designated for the storage of worn-out Hebrew language books and papers on religious topics prior to proper cemetery burial, it being forbidden to throw away writings containing the name of God. As even personal letters and legal contracts may open with an invocation of God, the contents of genizot have not been limited to religious materials; in practice, they have also contained writings of a secular nature, with or without the customary opening invocation, as well as writings in other Jewish languages that use the Hebrew alphabet (the Judeo-Arabic languages, Judeo-Persian, Judaeo-Spanish, and Yiddish).\n\nGenizot are typically found in the attic or basement of a synagogue, but can also be in walls or buried underground. They may also be located in cemeteries.\n\nThe contents of genizot are periodically gathered solemnly and then buried in the cemetery or \"bet ḥayyim\". Synagogues in Jerusalem buried the contents of their genizot every seventh year, as well as during a year of drought, believing that this would bring rain. This custom is associated with the far older practice of burying a great or good man with a \"sefer\" (either a book of the Tanakh, or the Mishnah, the Talmud, or any work of rabbinic literature) which has become \"pasul\" (unfit for use through illegibility or old age). The tradition of paper-interment is known to have been practiced in Morocco, Algiers, Turkey, Yemen and Egypt.\n\nThe Talmud (Tractate Shabbat 115a) directs that holy writings in other than the Hebrew language require \"genizah\", that is, preservation. In Tractate Pesachim 118b, \"bet genizah\" is a treasury. In Pesachim 56a, Hezekiah hides (\"ganaz\") a medical work; in Shabbat 115a, Gamaliel orders that the targum to the Book of Job should be hidden (\"yigganez\") under the \"nidbak\" (layer of stones). In Shabbat 30b, there is a reference to those rabbis who sought to categorize the books of Ecclesiastes and Proverbs as heretical; this occurred before the canonization of the Hebrew Bible, when disputes flared over which books should be considered Biblical. The same thing occurs in Shabbat 13b in regard to the Book of Ezekiel, and in Pesachim 62 in regard to the Book of Genealogies.\n\nIn medieval times, Hebrew scraps and papers that were relegated to the genizah were known as \"shemot\" \"names,\" because their sanctity and consequent claim to preservation were held to depend on their containing the \"names\" of God. In addition to papers, articles connected with ritual, such as tzitzit, lulavim, and sprigs of myrtle, are similarly stored.\n\nAccording to folklore, these scraps were used to hide the famed , whose body is claimed to lie in the genizah of the Old New Synagogue in Prague.\nBy far, the best-known genizah, which is famous for both its size and spectacular contents, is the Cairo Geniza. Recognized for its importance and introduced to the Western world in 1864 by Jacob Saphir, and chiefly studied by Solomon Schechter and Shelomo Dov Goitein, the genizah had an accumulation of almost 280,000 Jewish manuscript fragments dating from 870 to the 19th century. These materials were important for reconstructing the religious, social and economic history of Jews, especially in the Middle Ages. For all practical purposes, the Dead Sea Scrolls, discovered between the years 1946 and 1956, belonged to a genizah from the 2nd-century BCE. \n\nIn 1927, a manuscript containing Nathan ben Abraham's 11th-century Mishnah commentary was discovered in the genizah of the Jewish community of Sana'a, Yemen. Nathan had served as \"President of the Academy\" under the revised Palestinian \"geonate\", shortly before its demise in the early 12th century CE. In 2011, the so-called Afghan Geniza, an 11th century collection of manuscript fragments in Hebrew, Aramaic, Judaeo-Arabic and Judeo-Persian, was found in Afghanistan, in caves used by the Taliban.\n\n"}
{"id": "190424", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=190424", "title": "Heterodoxy", "text": "Heterodoxy\n\nHeterodoxy in a religious sense means \"any opinions or doctrines at variance with an official or orthodox position\". Under this definition, heterodoxy is similar to unorthodoxy, while the adjective \"heterodox\" could be applied to a dissident.\n\nHeterodoxy is also an ecclesiastical term of art, defined in various ways by different religions and churches. For example, in the Apostolic Churches (the Orthodox Church, the Roman Catholic Church, the Church of the East, the Anglican Communion, and the Non-Chalcedonian or Oriental Churches), heterodoxy may describe beliefs that differ from strictly orthodox views, but that fall short either of formal or of material heresy.\n\nIn the Orthodox Church, the term is used primarily in reference to Christian churches and denominations not belonging to the Communion of Eastern Orthodox Churches and espousing doctrines contrary to the received Holy Tradition. Also, it describes any theological position, moral principle, spiritual practice, or lifestyle thought to be inconsistent with the catholic Rule of Faith. In general, this term is used in two distinct senses:\n\nHeterodoxy in the Roman Catholic Church refers to views that differ from strictly orthodox views, but retain sufficient faithfulness to the original doctrine to avoid heresy. Many Roman Catholics profess some heterodox views, either on doctrinal or social issues. For example, the orthodox Catholic position on unbaptized infants is that their fate is uncertain, and \"the Church can only entrust them to the mercy of God\" (Catechism of the Catholic Church 1261). A heterodox Catholic might profess the belief that unbaptized infants are allotted to Limbo and then offered the option to accept or deny salvation by God at their judgment. The belief is not orthodox, as the Church does not profess a belief as to what happens to unbaptized infants; however, it is also not heresy, as the Church accepts that such a scenario \"might\" be possible.\n\nMany Protestants, such as Lutherans, use the term \"heterodox\" to describe Christian teachings which are not in agreement with their understanding of scripture. As Charles Spurgeon said:\n\nThe Arabic word \"ghulat\" is used by Shia Muslims for beliefs perceived as being extremely heterodox (more in line with the Christian use of the word \"heresy\"). In particular, the term is used to describe the beliefs of minority Muslim groups who ascribe divine characteristics to a member of Muhammad's family (especially Ali) or the early companions of the Prophet such as Salman the Persian. The assumption is that the groups thus described have gone too far and have come to associate them with God (\"shirk\").\n\nSunni and Shia Islam Muslims see each other as heterodox, differing in practice mainly on matters of jurisprudence or \"fiqh\", splitting historically on the matter of the succession of Ali to the caliphate by Muawiyah. A third and much smaller movement is Ibadi, which differ from both of these groups on a few key points. Several ultra-orthodox groups such as the Wahhabis, in turn, see themselves as the only truly orthodox groups within Islam.\n\nThe Shia Ismailis, who in turn split from the Shia mainstream of Twelvers over another succession dispute, have subsumed several groups which the majority of Muslims view as heterodox, such as the Seveners, and gnostic-influenced Alawites, and many other sects and subsects. The gnostic-influenced Druze sect has also been affiliated with the Ismailis, but some of its followers go so far as to see it as a distinct religion altogether. The Sufis, divided into many sects and orders, incorporate many mystical doctrines and rituals into Islam, but many also consider themselves Shi'i or Sunnis. Another Shia group, influenced heavily by the Sufis, Turkic religion and other mystical movements, is that of the Alevi. Historical groups viewed as highly heterodox by most Muslims include the Kharijites, who took a third view on Ali's succession (and are today succeeded by the Ibadi), the Mu'tazilites, who most famously asserted that the Qur'an was created, a view which enjoyed Caliphal approval before the time of Mutawakkil, the Qarmatians, a branch of the Seveners within Ismaili Islam who took control of much of the Arabian peninsula in the 9th and 10th century, practiced vegetarianism, attacked Hajj pilgrims and took control of the Well of Zamzam and the Black Stone before their decline, and the Hashashin or Assassins, another Ismaili group, famous for their reclusive lifestyle, manners of indoctrination and assassinations in the years after the First Crusade.\n\nAccording to Philip Hitti, during the Umayyad and Abbasid caliphates there was a marked tendency among several quite unrelated heterodox groups to affiliate themselves with the Shiites, particularly the Ismailis, in a general feeling of heterodox solidarity in a Sunni-controlled empire. The cause of the Alids thus became a rallying point for a diverse range of heterodox Islamic movements. The view that Ali was divine, though never mainstream within Shiism, is attested in the early centuries of Islam.\n\nTwo more recent movements seen as particularly at odds with the majority Muslim view are the Ahmadiyya and Nation of Islam movements. Many followers of the former consider its 19th-century founder, Mirza Ghulam Ahmad, to have been a prophet, as well as such other religious figures as Krishna and Buddha, despite the mainstream Muslim view that Muhammad was the last. Both Ahmadi denominations consider Ahmad to have been the Mahdi and second coming of Jesus. The Nation of Islam is a movement which acknowledges its 20th-century founder, Wallace Fard Muhammad, as an incarnation of Allah, a view most Muslims consider shirk (polytheism). Bábism (most followers of which came to follow Baha'u'llah and became the Baha'is) is viewed by many non-followers as originally having been a highly divergent movement within the Twelver Ismailism practiced in 19th-century Persia. Beyond heterodoxy, many elements of Islam have been incorporated into distinct belief systems several times, most specifically into Sikhism and the Baha'i Faith, whose predecessor movement was Bábism. As a more unusual example, several Thuggee were self-reportedly Muslims, and according to William Sleeman equated the Hindu goddess Kali with Fatima, a daughter of Muhammad.\n\nIn late 1999 legislation was created in China to outlaw \"heterodox religions\". This was applied retroactively to Falun Gong, a spiritual practice introduced to the public in China by Li Hongzhi (李洪志) in 1992.\n\nHeterodox economics refers to schools of economic thought that are considered outside of mainstream economics, referred to as orthodox economics, often represented by expositors as contrasting with or going beyond neoclassical economics. It means considering a variety of economic schools and methodologies, which can include neoclassical or other orthodox economics as a part. Heterodox economics refers to a variety of separate unorthodox approaches or schools such as institutional, post-Keynesian, socialist, Marxian, feminist, Georgist, Austrian, ecological, and social economics, among others.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13756", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13756", "title": "Hymn", "text": "Hymn\n\nA hymn is a type of song, usually religious, specifically written for the purpose of adoration or prayer, and typically addressed to a deity or deities, or to a prominent figure or personification. The word \"hymn\" derives from Greek (\"hymnos\"), which means \"a song of praise\". A writer of hymns is known as a hymnodist. The singing or composition of hymns is called hymnody. Collections of hymns are known as hymnals or hymn books. Hymns may or may not include instrumental accompaniment.\n\nAlthough most familiar to speakers of English in the context of Christianity, hymns are also a fixture of other world religions, especially on the Indian subcontinent. Hymns also survive from antiquity, especially from Egyptian and Greek cultures. Some of the oldest surviving examples of notated music are hymns with Greek texts.\n\nAncient hymns include the Egyptian \"Great Hymn to the Aten\", composed by Pharaoh Akhenaten; the Hurrian Hymn to Nikkal; the \"Vedas\", a collection of hymns in the tradition of Hinduism; and the Psalms, a collection of songs from Judaism. The Western tradition of hymnody begins with the Homeric Hymns, a collection of ancient Greek hymns, the oldest of which were written in the 7th century BC, praising deities of the ancient Greek religions. Surviving from the 3rd century BC is a collection of six literary hymns () by the Alexandrian poet Callimachus.\n\nPatristic writers began applying the term , or \"hymnus\" in Latin, to Christian songs of praise, and frequently used the word as a synonym for \"psalm\".\n\nOriginally modeled on the Book of Psalms and other poetic passages (commonly referred to as \"canticles\") in the Scriptures, Christian hymns are generally directed as praise to the Christian God. Many refer to Jesus Christ either directly or indirectly.\n\nSince the earliest times, Christians have sung \"psalms and hymns and spiritual songs\", both in private devotions and in corporate worship (; ; ; ; ; ; ; cf. ; ).\n\nNon-scriptural hymns (i.e. not psalms or canticles) from the Early Church still sung today include 'Phos Hilaron', 'Sub tuum praesidium', and 'Te Deum'.\n\nOne definition of a hymn is \"...a lyric poem, reverently and devotionally conceived, which is designed to be sung and which expresses the worshipper's attitude toward God or God's purposes in human life. It should be simple and metrical in form, genuinely emotional, poetic and literary in style, spiritual in quality, and in its ideas so direct and so immediately apparent as to unify a congregation while singing it.\"\n\nChristian hymns are often written with special or seasonal themes and these are used on holy days such as Christmas, Easter and the Feast of All Saints, or during particular seasons such as Advent and Lent. Others are used to encourage reverence for the Bible or to celebrate Christian practices such as the eucharist or baptism. Some hymns praise or address individual saints, particularly the Blessed Virgin Mary; such hymns are particularly prevalent in Catholicism, Eastern Orthodoxy and to some extent High Church Anglicanism.\n\nA writer of hymns is known as a hymnodist, and the practice of singing hymns is called \"hymnody\"; the same word is used for the collectivity of hymns belonging to a particular denomination or period (e.g. \"nineteenth century Methodist hymnody\" would mean the body of hymns written and/or used by Methodists in the 19th century). A collection of hymns is called a \"hymnal\" or \"hymnary\". These may or may not include music. A student of hymnody is called a \"hymnologist\", and the scholarly study of hymns, hymnists and hymnody is hymnology. The music to which a hymn may be sung is a hymn tune.\n\nIn many Evangelical churches, traditional songs are classified as hymns while more contemporary worship songs are not considered hymns. The reason for this distinction is unclear, but according to some it is due to the radical shift of style and devotional thinking that began with the Jesus movement and Jesus music. Of note, in recent years, Christian traditional hymns \"have\" seen a revival in some churches, usually more Reformed or Calvinistic in nature, as modern hymn writers such as Keith and Kristyn Getty and Sovereign Grace Music have reset old lyrics to new melodies, revised old hymns and republished them, or simply written a song in accordance with Christian hymn standards such as the hymn, \"In Christ Alone\".\n\nIn ancient and medieval times, string instruments such as the harp, lyre and lute were used with psalms and hymns.\n\nSince there is a lack of musical notation in early writings, the actual musical forms in the early church can only be surmised. During the Middle Ages a rich hymnody developed in the form of Gregorian chant or plainsong. This type was sung in unison, in one of eight church modes, and most often by monastic choirs. While they were written originally in Latin, many have been translated; a familiar example is the 4th century \"Of the Father's Heart Begotten\" sung to the 11th century plainsong \"Divinum Mysterium\".\n\nLater hymnody in the Western church introduced four-part vocal harmony as the norm, adopting major and minor keys, and came to be led by organ and choir. It shares many elements with classical music.\n\nToday, except for choirs, more musically inclined congregations and \"a cappella\" congregations, hymns are typically sung in unison. In some cases complementary full settings for organ are also published, in others organists and other accompanists are expected to transcribe the four-part vocal score for their instrument of choice.\n\nTo illustrate Protestant usage, in the traditional services and liturgies of the Methodist churches, which are based upon Anglican practice, hymns are sung (often accompanied by an organ) during the processional to the altar, during the receiving of communion, during the recessional, and sometimes at other points during the service. These hymns can be found in a common book such as the United Methodist Hymnal. The Doxology is also sung after the tithes and offerings are brought up to the altar.\n\nContemporary Christian worship, as often found in Evangelicalism and Pentecostalism, may include the use of contemporary worship music played with electric guitars and the drum kit, sharing many elements with rock music.\n\nOther groups of Christians have historically excluded instrumental accompaniment, citing the absence of instruments in worship by the church in the first several centuries of its existence, and adhere to an unaccompanied \"a cappella\" congregational singing of hymns. These groups include the 'Brethren' (often both 'Open' and 'Exclusive'), the Churches of Christ, Mennonites, Primitive Baptists, and certain Reformed churches, although during the last century or so, several of these, such as the Free Church of Scotland have abandoned this stance.\n\nEastern Christianity (the Eastern Orthodox, Oriental Orthodox and Eastern Catholic churches) has a variety of ancient hymnographical traditions.\n\nByzantine chant is almost always a cappella, and instrumental accompaniment is rare. It is used to chant all forms of liturgical worship.\n\nInstruments are common in Oriental traditions. The Coptic tradition which makes use of the cymbals and the Triangle (musical instrument). The Indian Orthodox (Malankara Orthodox Syrian Church) use of the organ. The Tewahedo Churches use drums, cymbals and other instruments on certain occasions.\n\nThomas Aquinas, in the introduction to his commentary on the Psalms, defined the Christian hymn thus: \"\"Hymnus est laus Dei cum cantico; canticum autem exultatio mentis de aeternis habita, prorumpens in vocem\".\" (\"A hymn is the praise of God with song; a song is the exultation of the mind dwelling on eternal things, bursting forth in the voice.\")\n\nThe Protestant Reformation resulted in two conflicting attitudes towards hymns. One approach, the regulative principle of worship, favoured by many Zwinglians, Calvinists and some radical reformers, considered anything that was not directly authorised by the Bible to be a novel and Catholic introduction to worship, which was to be rejected. All hymns that were not direct quotations from the Bible fell into this category. Such hymns were banned, along with any form of instrumental musical accompaniment, and organs were removed from churches. Instead of hymns, biblical psalms were chanted, most often without accompaniment, to very basic melodies. This was known as exclusive psalmody. Examples of this may still be found in various places, including in some of the Presbyterian churches of western Scotland.\nThe other Reformation approach, the normative principle of worship, produced a burst of hymn writing and congregational singing. Martin Luther is notable not only as a reformer, but as the author of many hymns including \"Ein feste Burg ist unser Gott\" (\"A Mighty Fortress Is Our God\"), which is sung today even by Catholics, and \"Gelobet seist du, Jesu Christ\" (\"Praise be to You, Jesus Christ\") for Christmas. Luther and his followers often used their hymns, or chorales, to teach tenets of the faith to worshipers. The first Protestant hymnal was published in Bohemia in 1532 by the Unitas Fratrum. Count Zinzendorf, the Lutheran leader of the Moravian Church in the 18th century wrote some 2,000 hymns. The earlier English writers tended to paraphrase biblical texts, particularly Psalms; Isaac Watts followed this tradition, but is also credited as having written the first English hymn which was not a direct paraphrase of Scripture.\nWatts (1674–1748), whose father was an Elder of a dissenter congregation, complained at age 16, that when allowed only psalms to sing, the faithful could not even sing about their Lord, Christ Jesus. His father invited him to see what he could do about it; the result was Watts' first hymn, \"Behold the glories of the Lamb\".\nFound in few hymnals today, the hymn has eight stanzas in common meter and is based on Revelation 5:6, 8, 9, 10, 12.\n\nRelying heavily on Scripture, Watts wrote metered texts based on New Testament passages that brought the Christian faith into the songs of the church. Isaac Watts has been called \"the father of English hymnody\", but Erik Routley sees him more as \"the liberator of English hymnody\", because his hymns, and hymns like them, moved worshipers beyond singing only Old Testament psalms, inspiring congregations and revitalizing worship.\n\nLater writers took even more freedom, some even including allegory and metaphor in their texts.\n\nCharles Wesley's hymns spread Methodist theology, not only within Methodism, but in most Protestant churches. He developed a new focus: expressing one's personal feelings in the relationship with God as well as the simple worship seen in older hymns. Wesley wrote:\n\nWesley's contribution, along with the Second Great Awakening in America led to a new style called gospel, and a new explosion of sacred music writing with Fanny Crosby, Lina Sandell, Philip Bliss, Ira D. Sankey, and others who produced testimonial music for revivals, camp meetings, and evangelistic crusades. The tune style or form is technically designated \"gospel songs\" as distinct from hymns. Gospel songs generally include a refrain (or chorus) and usually (though not always) a faster tempo than the hymns. As examples of the distinction, \"Amazing Grace\" is a hymn (no refrain), but \"How Great Thou Art\" is a gospel song. During the 19th century, the gospel-song genre spread rapidly in Protestantism and to a lesser but still definite extent, in Roman Catholicism; the gospel-song genre is unknown in the worship \"per se\" by Eastern Orthodox churches, which rely exclusively on traditional chants (a type of hymn).\n\nThe Methodist Revival of the 18th century created an explosion of hymn-writing in Welsh, which continued into the first half of the 19th century. The most prominent names among Welsh hymn-writers are William Williams Pantycelyn and Ann Griffiths. The second half of the 19th century witnessed an explosion of hymn tune composition and congregational four-part singing in Wales.\n\nAlong with the more classical sacred music of composers ranging from Mozart to Monteverdi, the Catholic Church continued to produce many popular hymns such as Lead, Kindly Light, Silent Night, O Sacrament Divine and Faith of our Fathers.\n\nMany churches today use contemporary worship music which includes a range of styles often influenced by popular music. This often leads to some conflict between older and younger congregants (see contemporary worship). This is not new; the Christian pop music style began in the late 1960s and became very popular during the 1970s, as young hymnists sought ways in which to make the music of their religion relevant for their generation.\n\nThis long tradition has resulted in a wide variety of hymns. Some modern churches include within hymnody the traditional hymn (usually describing God), contemporary worship music (often directed to God) and gospel music (expressions of one's personal experience of God). This distinction is not perfectly clear; and purists remove the second two types from the classification as hymns. It is a matter of debate, even sometimes within a single congregation, often between revivalist and traditionalist movements.\n\nAfrican-Americans developed a rich hymnody from spirituals during times of slavery to the modern, lively black gospel style. The first influences of African American Culture into hymns came from Slave Songs of the United States a collection of slave hymns compiled by William Francis Allen who had difficulty pinning them down from the oral tradition, and though he succeeded, he points out the awe inspiring effect of the hymns when sung in by their originators.\n\nHymn writing, composition, performance and the publishing of Christian hymnals were prolific in the 19th-century and were often linked to the abolitionist movement by many hymn writers. Surprisingly, Stephen Foster wrote a number of hymns that were used during church services during this era of publishing.\n\nThomas Symmes spread throughout churches a new idea of how to sing hymns, in which anyone could sing a hymn any way they felt led to; this idea was opposed by the views of Symmes' colleagues who felt it was \"like Five Hundred different Tunes roared out at the same time\". William Billings, a singing school teacher, created the first tune book with only American born compositions. Within his books, Billings did not put as much emphasis on \"common measure\" which was the typical way hymns were sung, but he attempted \"to have a Sufficiency in each measure\". Boston's Handel and Haydn Society aimed at raising the level of church music in America, publishing their \"Collection of Church Music\". In the late 19th century Ira D. Sankey and Dwight L. Moody developed the relatively new subcategory of gospel hymns.\n\nEarlier in the 19th century, the use of musical notation, especially shape notes, exploded in America, and professional singing masters went from town to town teaching the population how to sing from sight, instead of the more common lining out that had been used before that. During this period hundreds of tune books were published, including B.F. White's \"Sacred Harp\", and earlier works like the \"Missouri Harmony\", \"Kentucky Harmony\", \"Hesperian Harp\", D.H. Mansfield's \"The American Vocalist\", \"The Social Harp\", the \"Southern Harmony\", William Walker's \"Christian Harmony\", Jeremiah Ingalls' \"Christian Harmony\", and literally many dozens of others. Shape notes were important in the spread of (then) more modern singing styles, with tenor-led 4-part harmony (based on older English West Gallery music), fuging sections, anthems and other more complex features. During this period, hymns were incredibly popular in the United States, and one or more of the above-mentioned tunebooks could be found in almost every household. It isn't uncommon to hear accounts of young people and teenagers gathering together to spend an afternoon singing hymns and anthems from tune books, which was considered great fun, and there are surviving accounts of Abraham Lincoln and his sweetheart singing together from the \"Missouri Harmony\" during his youth. \n\nBy the 1860s musical reformers like Lowell Mason (the so-called \"better music boys\") were actively campaigning for the introduction of more \"refined\" and modern singing styles, and eventually these American tune books were replaced in many churches, starting in the Northeast and urban areas, and spreading out into the countryside as people adopted the gentler, more soothing tones of Victorian hymnody, and even adopted dedicated, trained choirs to do their church's singing, rather than having the entire congregation participate. But in many rural areas the old traditions lived on, not in churches, but in weekly, monthly or annual conventions were people would meet to sing from their favorite tunebooks. The most popular one, and the only one that survived continuously in print, was the \"Sacred Harp\", which could be found in the typical rural Southern home right up until the living tradition was \"re-discovered\" by Alan Lomax in the 1960s (although it had been well-documented by musicologist George Pullen Jackson prior to this). Indeed, \"the most common book on . Since then there has been a renaissance in \"Sacred Harp singing\", with annual conventions popping up in all 50 states and in a number of European countries recently, including the UK, Germany, Ireland and Poland, as well as in Australia. Today \"Sacred Harp singing\" is a vibrant and living tradition with thousands of enthusiastic participants all around the globe, drawn to the democratic principles of the tradition and exotic, beautiful sound of the music. Although the lyrics tend to be highly religious in nature, the tradition is largely secular, and participation if open to all who care to attend.\n\nThe meter indicates the number of syllables for the lines in each stanza of a hymn. This provides a means of marrying the hymn's text with an appropriate hymn tune for singing. In practice many hymns conform to one of a relatively small number of meters (syllable count and stress patterns). Care must be taken, however, to ensure that not only the metre of words and tune match, but also the stresses on the words in each line. Technically speaking an iambic tune, for instance, cannot be used with words of, say, trochaic metre.\n\nThe meter is often denoted by a row of figures besides the name of the tune, such as \"87.87.87\", which would inform the reader that each verse has six lines, and that the first line has eight syllables, the second has seven, the third line eight, etc. The meter can also be described by initials; L.M. indicates long meter, which is 88.88 (four lines, each eight syllables long); S.M. is short meter (66.86); C.M. is common metre (86.86), while D.L.M., D.S.M. and D.C.M. (the \"D\" stands for double) are similar to their respective single meters except that they have eight lines in a verse instead of four.\n\nAlso, if the number of syllables in one verse differ from another verse in the same hymn (e.g., the hymn \"I Sing a Song of the Saints of God\"), the meter is called Irregular.\n\nThe Sikh holy book, the Guru Granth Sahib Ji ( ), is a collection of hymns (Shabad) or \"Gurbani\" describing the qualities of God and why one should meditate on God's name. The \"Guru Granth Sahib\" is divided by their musical setting in different ragas into fourteen hundred and thirty pages known as \"Angs\" (limbs) in Sikh tradition. Guru Gobind Singh (1666–1708), the tenth guru, after adding Guru Tegh Bahadur's bani to the Adi Granth affirmed the sacred text as his successor, elevating it to \"Guru Granth Sahib\". The text remains the holy scripture of the Sikhs, regarded as the teachings of the Ten Gurus. The role of Guru Granth Sahib, as a source or guide of prayer, is pivotal in Sikh worship.\n\n\n\nThe links below are restricted to either material that is historical or resources that are non-denominational or inter-denominational. Denomination-specific resources are mentioned from the relevant denomination-specific articles. \n"}
{"id": "50740810", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50740810", "title": "Ibalong Epic", "text": "Ibalong Epic\n\nThe Ibálong, also known as Handiong or Handyong, is a 60-stanza fragment of a Bikol full-length folk epic of Bikol region of Philippines, based on the Indian Hindu epics Ramayana and Mahabharta. The epic is said to have been narrated in verse form by a native poet called Kadunung. \nIt was passed on orally until it was presumably jotted down in its complete Bikol narrative by . The Ibalong portrays deeds in heroic proportions, centering on white men or \"tawong-lipod\" who were warrior-heroes named, among others, \"Baltog\", \"Handyong\", and \"Bantong\". They came from Boltavara, settling and ruling \"Bikolandia\" and its inhabitants. The epic is set in the land of Aslon and Ibalong. The mountains Asog, Masaraga, Isarog, and Lingyon were prominent features of the area.\nIn its oldest known text, the folk epic does not have a title. The oldest existing account of it is written in Spanish.\n\nA non-religious festival, the Ibalong Festival is celebrated annually in honor of the epic \"Ibalong\" as a celebration of the geography of Ibalon. It is unusual because Spaniards introduced saints and fiestas and all religious-related activities except Ibalong. It is also a celebration of the province’s people and their resiliency, given the string calamities that regularly befall the region given its typhoon-prone geographical location.\n\nThe full-length narrative is presumably jotted down by (1815-1867), a Franciscan missionary in Guinobatan, Albay, when he got acquainted with an errant bard referred to in the epic as Kadunung. It was put afterward into Spanish by Melendreras in Ibal, a 400-age manuscript in verse on the ancient customs of the Indios of Albay.\n\nThe sixty-stanza portion was later included in a treatise on the Bikol region by Fray Jose Castaño in 1895. However, no credit was given to Melendreras by Castaño in the work, and so students of the Ibalong have since presumed that it was recorded and translated by Castaño himself.\n\nThe full English translation of the Ibalong was first published in the Far Eastern University Faculty Journal, Manila by .\n\nThe epic opens with \"Iling\" requesting the bard Kadunung to recount the tale of the glorious Ibálong of long ago. Forthwith Kadunung described the ancient land and spoke of its first hero, \"Baltog\", a White Aryan, who had come from Boltavara (Bharata-varsha or India). He planted a linsa patch in \"Tondol\" (now in Kamalig) which, one night, was foraged by a giant wild boar (Tandayag). The furious Baltog chased the Tandayag, killed it with his bare hands, and hung its enormous jawbones on a talisay tree in front of his house in Tondol. For this marvelous feat, he was acknowledged chief of the local hunters. The clans of Panicuason and Asog came over to marvel at the monstrous wild boar in Ibálong.\n\nNext to come was Handyong. With his followers, he fought the monsters of the land. But \"Oryol\", a wily serpent who appeared as a beautiful maiden with a seductive voice, was one whom Handyong could not destroy. Meanwhile, Oryol admired Handyong's bravery and gallantry. Because of this, Oryol helped Handyong clear the region of ferocious beasts until peace came to the whole of the land.\n\nWith Ibálong rid of wild creatures, Handyong turned to making wise laws and planting the land to linsa and rice. A period of the invention followed: boat, farming tools, weaving looms, claywares, kitchen utensils, tree houses, and even a syllabary. Together, the people built a society with culture. It was a golden period in Ibálong when even slaves were respected under the laws of Handyong.\n\nThen came a great flood, freed by \"Unos\", that changed the features of the land. Three volcanoes, named Hantik, Kulasi, and Isarog erupted simultaneously. Inundations caused lands to sink, from which Lake Buhi came about, or rise, as in the strip of seacoast in Pasacao, Camarines Sur, and wiped out many settlements, especially the Dagatnong settlement in the Kalabangan Gulf. The Malbogong Islet formed in the Bikol River. The Inarihan River altered its course. A lofty mountain sank at Bato, forming a lake.\n\nDespite the calamities, Ibálong grew powerful under Old Chief Handyong, whose constant companion and good friend, by then, was the young Bantong. Although given a thousand men to destroy the half man and half beast Rabot, who could change its enemies into rocks, Bantong slew it single-handedly – to the loud cheers of his thousand warriors that reverberated throughout the forests and mangroves swamps. Brought to Ligmanan, the corpse of Rabot was horrible to behold. The Great Handyong himself was shocked at the sight.\n\nAt this point, the Ibálong epic-fragment ends abruptly, and Kadunung promises to continue the story some other time.\n\nThe fragmentary epic ended at that part where Bantong killed the fierce half-man and beast, Rabot. Curiously, Handyong was saddened by Rabot's death. In her study of the Ibalong Epic, the Bikol scholar, Ma. Lilia F. Realubit, explained that the reason behind this is that Handyong might have \"mourned the passing of an era, when men were proved men by monsters and the skill of the hunt, when magic and ceremonial incantations infused life and explained his questions about life and nature and the supernatural.\"\n\nShe also added that Handyong could have “correctly foresaw the coming of a new age and aptly mourned the death of his time.” Meanwhile, some others speculate that he foresaw the subjugation and destitution of his people under a less benevolent leader - as what, indeed, happened under the Spanish colonial rule.\n\nThe existence of various Bikol oral accounts focus on a curse allegedly cast against the Bikol people seem to bridge the gap between the Ibalong epic and the subsequent decline and destitution of the Bikolanos. Some of these oral accounts indicated such a transformation. In Sorsogon, the legend of San Bernardino embodied this turn of events against the land and its inhabitants. The legend spoke about a mighty spirit who dwelt in Mt. Bulusan and fell in love with a maiden there. This maiden did not love him back, and so the spirit was enraged. Panic filled everyone except one man - the favored suitor of the maiden. He killed the spirit to stop its violence in the area. Once killed, the spirit fell into the sea. The part of the water in which the spirit fell transformed into land. The old folks claim that the two islands with a slender strip of water between Samar and Sorsogon were the spirit of Mt. Bulusan. It is now called the Strait of San Bernardino and is considered enchanted or \"engkantado.\"\n\nThe parallelism of the events in the Ibálong and the above-cited legend with what actually happened under Spanish rule seems to suggest the total transformation of the inhabitants from a sturdy phase to becoming passive people.\n\nThere is no definite date that can be given to where the epic-fragment starts and ends, however, what little is known about the legendary beginnings of Bikol might describe the area circa 4, 500 years ago. The epic-fragment portrays ancient Bikol as lush in jungle growth, teeming with fish and wild game, and dotted by mountain ranges, hills, and volcanoes. The bard Kadunung in the epic recounted this as the glorious \"Bikolandia\", a beautiful and fertile ancient land of long ago, inhabited by strong and brave people, that existed before a catastrophe destroyed it some 4,500 years ago.\n\nThe Ibálong is an invaluable piece of literature that marks the spontaneous record of the ancient Bikol's early struggle for principle, survival, and growth. It commemorates the Bicolano people's resilience against the typhoons that annually beset their region. It stresses the humble accomplishments and peaceful pursuits of the early Bikolanos, including the implementation of just laws. Among other pursuits is the cultivation of upland and lowland crops, the construction of dwellings on tall trees, the creation of the first boat in the region, the making of utensils, tools, and wares, but most importantly, the invention of writing. The epic depicts the transition of the ancient Bikolanos from the hunting stage to the agricultural stage, from the nomadic state to the settled life.\n\nThe Ibalong teaches about courage, of how a simple act can bring about positive change. The heroes made use of this courage to lead the community out of chaos without any regard for self-glorification. This gives evidence of good leadership. However, it must also be noted that all three heroes were foreigners and not pure inhabitants of the Ibalong. This poses an argument that the locals had to depend on foreign abilities and leadership before they were able to obtain progress.\n\nAlso portrayed in the epic is the concept of social class, of slaves and masters. However, this did not hinder the growth of the community because the classes respected each other.\n\nThe Ibalong stresses the humble accomplishments and peaceful pursuits of the early Bikolanos. It is unlikely that the ancient Bikolanos had worshiped idols. Nothing is mentioned about gods in the epic except perhaps in passing, \"Onos\", the god of floodwaters.\n\nThe very survival of these pre-Hispanic legends is direct proof of the vitality of Bikol culture. Folk history or not, this epic is valuable for it enabled the Bikolanos of today to gain valuable insights into the misty past of their land and their ancestors.\n\nThe epic is celebrated through street performances and floats on Ibalong Festival in Legazpi City, Bicol region since 1992. This is celebrated in Legazpi City during the month of August. The Ibalong festival features the various characters from the epic while celebrating through song and dance. It is also performed in theaters like Tanghalang Pilipino's \"Ibalong the Musical\" by Rody Vera.\n\n\nMany accomplishments and advances made by the ancient Bikols were credited to various characters mentioned in the epic.\n\nBaltog: Baltog was the first white man or \"tawong-lipod\" to come to Bikol. Born in India (although India is called \"Boltavara\" in the epic) to the brave clan of Lipod, he introduced agriculture to Bikol by planting \"linsa\" or \"apay\", which was a characteristic of early Indian colonizers. He slew the Tandayag Boar in a bone-wracking combat.\n\nBantong: Bantong was a brave and cunning young warrior who single-handedly killed the half-man and half-wild beast Rabot, although Handyong had given him 1,000 warriors to help him do it.\n\nDinahong: Dinahong, meaning \"wrapped with leaves\", is the original Bikolano potter who was believed to have been an Agta (Negrito) or pygmy. He helped the people learn cooking, making pots called \"coron\", stoves, earthen jars, and other kitchen utensils.\n\nGinantong: Ginantong made the plow, harrow, and other farming tools.\n\nHablom: Hablom, from the verb \"hablon\" meaning “to weave”, was the inventor of the first weaving loom and bobbins in the Bikol region, especially for weaving abaca clothes.\n\nHandyong: The central figure in the epic is Handyong. He came to Bikol with his followers after Baltog, and came to be the most famous of the tawong-lipod. He cleared the land of predatory monsters, inspired inventions, reintroduced agriculture, built tree-houses where \"anitos\" or idols were kept called \"moog\", and set up a code of laws, establishing a golden age in his day. He is also known to have built the first boat and developed rice cultivation in flooded areas.\n\nKimantong: Kimantong is attributed to have been the first Bikolano to fashion the rudder called \"timon\", the sail called \"layag\", the plow called \"arado\", the harrow called \"surod\", the \"ganta\" and other measures, the roller, the yoke, the \"bolo\", and the hoe. A baranggay called Kimantong is found in Daraga, Albay.\n\nSural: Sural, or \"surat\", meaning “to write” or “letter” was the first Bikolano to have thought of a syllabary. He carved it on a white rock-slab from Libong, which Gapon later polished.\n\nTakay: Takay was a lovely maiden who, according to legend, drowned during the great flood in the epic. He is believed to have become the water hyacinth in what is now Lake Bato.\n\nWild Carabaos: Wild carabaos were not yet domesticated for farm work back then. They freely roamed the mountains in the early days. Handyong was able to domesticate the big-bodied beasts \"in a short while\".\n\nGiant Crocodile: Also called buaya, Handyong defeated the giant crocodiles in combat. Handyong was assisted by Oryol in killing many of them, which lead tinged the Bikol River red with blood. The survivors were banished, along with Sarimao, to Mount Kulasi.\n\nLong before Spaniards arrived in Bikol and introduced Christianity, the Bikolanos already believed in gods and supernatural beings. The epic-fragment contains many of the supernatural faith and religion that the ancient Bikols had. Among them are supernatural creatures.\n\nAngongolood: The Angongolood lurked along shadowy riversides. They were hideous apes that transformed their victims into trees surprising them in a tight embrace.\n\nBuring: The Buring was a one-eyed, three-throated creature which inhabited the swampy wastes of Ponong.\n\nRabot: Rabot was a ferocious half-human half-monster that could turn people into the rock by magic. Rabot is ugly, a liar, and had a loud voice. Bantong slew the monster using his bolo.\n\nSarimao: The Sarimao were avenging monsters that were brutally fierce, ugly, and ruinous. They went after evildoers, usually to those with hidden guilt, who could not be brought to justice. Handyong exiled the Sarimao to Mount Kulasi. Their human equivalents are believed to be those who take the law into their own hands, who have suffered injustice.\n\nSerpents: The serpents were probably related to Oryol, a serpent with a beautiful voice and could change its image to deceive enemies. Handyong sealed all the serpents inside a huge cave in Mount Hantik.\n\nTandayag Boar: The word tandayag means “giant”, meaning that it could be any living being that had grown very old and enormous. In the epic, Tandayag was the boar slew by Baltog.\n\nTiburon: The Tiburon were giant flying fishes which had slimy, scaly, and hardy flesh and saw-like teeth that could crush rocks. Handiong and his men did not stop until they vanquished every Tiburon.\n\nWinged sharks: The winged sharks mentioned were not really winged sharks but rather manta rays that would sometimes pop out of the water like flying bats. These monsters were soon restrained by Handyong to keep waters safe for his followers.\n\nMoog: Moogs are treehouses where the ancient Bikols' lived and kept \"anitos\" and idols.\n\nDagatnong settlement: In the epic, the Dagatnong settlement was said to have been swept away by the Great Flood. The Dagatnong were the black pygmies who swelt on seacoasts, opposite of the Agta who lived in the highlands. The dagatnong originally came from Kotmong.\n\nAslong: Meaning \"faintly visible\", was famous for its tales of sweet enchantment in the glorious days of long ago. Presently, almost nothing is left of it but a few ridges around a shallowing crater.\n\nAsog: Meaning \"with only one testicle\", it refers to the effeminate black priests of Aswang's devil-cult that had its center in the wilds of this volcano during Bikol's epic age. It may also refer to a priest dressed like a woman. Asog is now called Mount Iriga.\n\nHantik: A big species of ants, the hantiks, gave Hantik its name. The ants are believed to have inhabited this mountain's Kalupnitan Caves, where Handyong drove and buried alive the wily, sweet-voiced serpents that masqueraded as lovely maidens.\n\nIsarog: From the word \"isaro\" meaning \"put together\", Isarog was the rugged volcano where the angonglood of the Bikol River forests fled to escape the wrath of Handyong.\n\nMasaraga: Masaraga is believed to have been where the Sarimao had their cave. The name comes from the intensifier \"ma\" and \"saga\", meaning \"a brilliant flame\" or \"glaring\".\n\nThe differences of the Ibalong from other Philippine epics may suggest culture differences of the Ancient Bikols from other ancient groups.\n\n"}
{"id": "48030380", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48030380", "title": "Idumban", "text": "Idumban\n\nIdumban @Kudumban is a great devotee of Lord Muruga and a greatest disciple of sage Agastya according to Hindu mythology. Idumban is also seen as one of the guardian of Muruga's temples in Tamil Nadu. During ThaiPoosam celebrations in the Tamil month of Thai (January), Tamil people observes a ritual practice of kavadiyaatam to obtain blessings from God Muruga.In this ritual practise before entering into muruga shrine people used to worship Idumban.\n\nSage Agastya wanted to take two hills - Sivagiri and Sakthigiri - to his abode in the South and commissioned his disciple Idumban to carry them. Idumban bore the hills slung across his shoulders, in the form of a kavadi one on either side. When he was fatigued, he placed the kavadi near Palani to take rest.At this stage, Subrahmanya or Muruga had been outwitted in a contest for going round the world. Ganapati had won the prized fruit (pomegranate or mango) by simply going round His parents. Long after, this, Subrahmanya came sweating on His peacock to find that the prize had already been given away. In anger, the frustrated child left the divine parents and came down to TiruAvinankudi at the Adivaram (pronounced Adivaram. It means foot of the Sivagiri Hill). Siva pacified Him by saying that He (Subrahmanya) Himself was the fruit (pazham) of all wisdom and knowledge; nee - you. Hence the place was called 'Pazham Nee' or Palani. Later, He withdrew to the hill and settled there as a recluse in peace and solitude. By seeing Idumba, God Muruga decided to test his devotion towards his master Agastya and his determination.When Idumban resumed his journey, he could not lift the hill. Muruga had made it impossible for Idumban to make it. In the fierce battle that ensued, Idumban was killed but was later on restored to life. Idumban prayed that:\n\n1. Whosoever carried on his shoulders the Kavadi, signifying the two hills and visited the temple on a vow, should be blessed and;\n\n2. He should be given the privilege of standing sentinel at the entrance to the hill.\n\nHence we have the Idumban shrine halfway up the hill where every pilgrim is expected to offer obeisance to Idumban before entering the temple of Dandayudhapani. Since then, pilgrims to Palani bring their offerings on their shoulders in a kavadi. The custom has spread from Palani to all Muruga shrines worldwide.\n\n"}
{"id": "283849", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283849", "title": "Isaac Newton's occult studies", "text": "Isaac Newton's occult studies\n\nEnglish physicist and mathematician Isaac Newton produced many works that would now be classified as occult studies. These works explored chronology, alchemy, and Biblical interpretation (especially of the Apocalypse). Newton's scientific work may have been of lesser personal importance to him, as he placed emphasis on rediscovering the occult wisdom of the ancients. In this sense, some historians, including economist John Maynard Keynes, believe that any reference to a \"Newtonian Worldview\" as being purely mechanical in nature is somewhat inaccurate. Historical research on Newton's occult studies in relation to his science have also been used to challenge the disenchantment narrative within critical theory.\n\nAfter purchasing and studying Newton's alchemical works, Keynes, for example, opined in 1942 at the tercentenary of his birth that \"Newton was not the first of the age of reason, he was the last of the magicians.\" In the Early Modern Period of Newton's lifetime, the educated embraced a world view different from that of later centuries. Distinctions between science, superstition, and pseudoscience were still being formulated, and a devoutly Christian biblical perspective permeated Western culture.\n\nMuch of what are known as Isaac Newton's occult studies can largely be attributed to his study of alchemy. Newton was deeply interested in all forms of natural sciences and materials science, an interest which would ultimately lead to some of his better-known contributions to science. During Newton's lifetime, the study of chemistry was still in its infancy, so many of his experimental studies used esoteric language and vague terminology more typically associated with alchemy and occultism. It was not until several decades after Newton's death that experiments of stoichiometry under the pioneering works of Antoine Lavoisier were conducted, and analytical chemistry, with its associated nomenclature, came to resemble modern chemistry as we know it today. However, Newton's contemporary and fellow Royal Society member, Robert Boyle, had already discovered the basic concepts of modern chemistry and began establishing modern norms of experimental practice and communication in chemistry, information which Newton did not use.\n\nMuch of Newton's writing on alchemy may have been lost in a fire in his laboratory, so the true extent of his work in this area may have been larger than is currently known. Newton also suffered a nervous breakdown during his period of alchemical work, possibly due to some form of chemical poisoning (possibly from mercury, lead, or some other substance).\n\nNewton's writings suggest that one of the main goals of his alchemy may have been the discovery of the philosopher's stone (a material believed to turn base metals into gold), and perhaps to a lesser extent, the discovery of the highly coveted Elixir of Life. Newton reportedly believed that a Diana's Tree, an alchemical demonstration producing a dendritic \"growth\" of silver from solution, was evidence that metals \"possessed a sort of life.\"\n\nSome practices of alchemy were banned in England during Newton's lifetime, due in part to unscrupulous practitioners who would often promise wealthy benefactors unrealistic results in an attempt to swindle them. The English Crown, also fearing the potential devaluation of gold, should the philosopher's stone actually be discovered, made penalties for alchemy very severe. In some cases the punishment for unsanctioned alchemy would include the public hanging of an offender on a gilded scaffold while adorned with tinsel and other unspecified items.\n\nDue to the threat of punishment and the potential scrutiny he feared from his peers within the scientific community, Newton may have deliberately left his work on alchemical subjects unpublished. Newton was well known as being highly sensitive to criticism, such as the numerous instances when he was criticized by Robert Hooke, and his admitted reluctance to publish any substantial information regarding calculus before 1693. A perfectionist by nature, Newton also refrained from publication of material that he felt was incomplete, as evident from a 38-year gap from Newton's conception of calculus in 1666 and its final full publication in 1704, which would ultimately lead to the infamous Leibniz–Newton calculus controversy.\n\nIn 1936, a collection of Isaac Newton's unpublished works were auctioned by Sotheby's on behalf of Gerard Wallop, 9th Earl of Portsmouth, who had inherited them from Newton's great-niece. Known as the \"Portsmouth Papers\", this material consisted of three hundred and twenty-nine lots of Newton's manuscripts, over a third of which were filled with content that appeared to be alchemical in nature. At the time of Newton's death this material was considered \"unfit to publish\" by Newton's estate, and consequently fell into obscurity until their somewhat sensational reemergence in 1936.\n\nAt the auction many of these documents, along with Newton's death mask, were purchased by economist John Maynard Keynes, who throughout his life collected many of Newton's alchemical writings. Much of the Keynes collection later passed to eccentric document collector Abraham Yahuda, who was himself a vigorous collector of Isaac Newton's original manuscripts.\n\nMany of the documents collected by Keynes and Yahuda are now in the Jewish National and University Library in Jerusalem. In recent years, several projects have begun to gather, catalogue, and transcribe the fragmented collection of Newton's work on alchemical subjects and make them freely available for on-line access. Two of these are \"The Chymistry of Isaac Newton Project\" supported by the U.S. National Science Foundation, and \"The Newton Project\" supported by the U.K. Arts and Humanities Research Board. In addition, The Jewish National and University Library has published a number of high-quality scanned images of various Newton documents.\n\nOf the material sold during the 1936 Sotheby's auction, several documents indicate an interest by Newton in the procurement or development of the philosopher's stone. Most notably are documents entitled \"Artephius his secret Book\", followed by \"The Epistle of Iohn Pontanus, wherein he beareth witness of ye book of Artephius\"; these are themselves a collection of excerpts from another work entitled \"Nicholas Flammel, His Exposition of the Hieroglyphicall Figures which he caused to be painted upon an Arch in St Innocents Church-yard in Paris. Together with The secret Booke of Artephius, And the Epistle of Iohn Pontanus: Containing both the Theoricke and the Practicke of the Philosophers Stone\". This work may also have been referenced by Newton in its Latin version found within Lazarus Zetzner's \"Theatrum Chemicum\", a volume often associated with the \"Turba Philosophorum\" and other early European alchemical manuscripts. Nicolas Flamel, one subject of the aforementioned work, was a notable, though mysterious figure, often associated with the discovery of the philosopher's stone, hieroglyphical figures, early forms of tarot, and occultism. Artephius, and his \"secret book\", were also subjects of interest to 17th century alchemists.\n\nAlso in the 1936 auction of Newton's collection was \"The Epitome of the treasure of health written by Edwardus Generosus Anglicus innominatus who lived Anno Domini 1562\". This is a twenty-eight-page treatise on the philosopher's stone, the Animal or Angelicall Stone, the Prospective stone or magical stone of Moses, and the vegetable or the growing stone. The treatise concludes with an alchemical poem.\n\nIn a manuscript he wrote in 1704 in which he describes his attempts to extract scientific information from the Bible, Newton estimated that the world would end no earlier than 2060. In predicting this he said, \"This I mention not to assert when the time of the end shall be, but to put a stop to the rash conjectures of fanciful men who are frequently predicting the time of the end, and by doing so bring the sacred prophesies into discredit as often as their predictions fail.\"\n\nNewton studied and wrote extensively upon the Temple of Solomon, dedicating an entire chapter of \"The Chronology of Ancient Kingdoms Amended\" to his observations regarding the temple. Newton's primary source for information was the description of the structure given within 1 Kings of the Hebrew Bible, which he translated himself from Hebrew.\n\nIn addition to scripture, Newton also relied upon various ancient and contemporary sources while studying the temple. He believed that many ancient sources were endowed with sacred wisdom and that the proportions of many of their temples were in themselves sacred. This belief would lead Newton to examine many architectural works of Hellenistic Greece, as well as Roman sources such as Vitruvius, in a search for their occult knowledge. This concept, often termed \"prisca sapientia\" (sacred wisdom and also the ancient wisdom that was revealed to Adam and Moses directly by God), was a common belief of many scholars during Newton's lifetime.\n\nA more contemporary source for Newton's studies of the temple was Juan Bautista Villalpando, who just a few decades earlier had published an influential manuscript entitled \"Ezechielem Explanationes\", in which Villalpando comments on the visions of the biblical prophet Ezekiel, including within this work his own interpretations and elaborate reconstructions of Solomon's Temple. In its time, Villalpando's work on the temple produced a great deal of interest throughout Europe and had a significant impact upon later architects and scholars.\n\nAs a Bible scholar, Newton was initially interested in the sacred geometry of Solomon's Temple, such as golden sections, conic sections, spirals, orthographic projection, and other harmonious constructions, but he also believed that the dimensions and proportions represented more. He noted that the temple's measurements given in the Bible are mathematical problems, related to solutions for formula_1 and the volume of a hemisphere, formula_2, and in a larger sense that they were references to the size of the Earth and man's place and proportion to it.\n\nNewton believed that the temple was designed by King Solomon with privileged eyes and divine guidance. To Newton, the geometry of the temple represented more than a mathematical blueprint, it also provided a time-frame chronology of Hebrew history. It was for this reason that he included a chapter devoted to the temple within \"The Chronology of Ancient Kingdoms Amended\", a section which initially may seem unrelated to the historical nature of the book as a whole.\n\nNewton felt that just as the writings of ancient philosophers, scholars, and Biblical figures contained within them unknown sacred wisdom, the same was true of their architecture. He believed that these men had hidden their knowledge in a complex code of symbolic and mathematical language that, when deciphered, would reveal an unknown knowledge of how nature works.\n\nIn 1675 Newton annotated a copy of \"Manna – a disquisition of the nature of alchemy\", an anonymous treatise which had been given to him by his fellow scholar Ezekiel Foxcroft. In his annotation Newton reflected upon his reasons for examining Solomon's Temple by writing:\n\nDuring Newton's lifetime, there was great interest in the Temple of Solomon in Europe, due to the success of Villalpando's publications, and augmented by a vogue for detailed engravings and physical models presented in various galleries for public viewing. In 1628, Judah Leon Templo produced a model of the temple and surrounding Jerusalem, which was popular in its day. Around 1692, Gerhard Schott produced a highly detailed model of the temple for use in an opera in Hamburg composed by Christian Heinrich Postel. This immense and model was later sold in 1725 and was exhibited in London as early as 1723, and then later temporarily installed at the London Royal Exchange from 1729 to 1730, where it could be viewed for half-a-crown. Isaac Newton's most comprehensive work on the temple, found within \"The Chronology of Ancient Kingdoms Amended\", was published posthumously in 1728, only adding to the public interest in the temple.\n\nNewton considered himself to be one of a select group of individuals who were specially chosen by God for the task of understanding Biblical scripture. He was a strong believer in prophetic interpretation of the Bible, and like many of his contemporaries in Protestant England, he developed a strong affinity and deep admiration for the teachings and works of Joseph Mede. Although he never wrote a cohesive body of work on prophecy, Newton's belief led him to write several treatises on the subject, including an unpublished guide for prophetic interpretation entitled \"Rules for interpreting the words & language in Scripture\". In this manuscript he details the necessary requirements for what he considered to be the proper interpretation of the Bible.\n\nIn addition, Newton would spend much of his life seeking and revealing what could be considered a Bible Code. He placed a great deal of emphasis upon the interpretation of the Book of Revelation, writing generously upon this book and authoring several manuscripts detailing his interpretations. Unlike a prophet in the true sense of the word, Newton relied upon existing Scripture to prophesy for him, believing his interpretations would set the record straight in the face of what he considered to be \"so little understood\". In 1754, 27 years after his death, Isaac Newton's treatise, \"An Historical Account of Two Notable Corruptions of Scripture\" would be published, and although it does not argue any prophetic meaning, it does exemplify what Newton considered to be just one popular misunderstanding of Scripture.\n\nAlthough Newton's approach to these studies could not be considered a scientific approach, he did write as if his findings were the result of evidence-based research.\n\nIn late February and early March 2003, a large amount of media attention circulated around the globe regarding largely unknown and unpublished documents, evidently written by Isaac Newton, indicating that he believed the world would end no earlier than 2060. The story garnered vast amounts of public interest and found its way onto the front page of several widely distributed newspapers, including the UK's Daily Telegraph, Canada's National Post, Israel's Maariv and Yediot Aharonot, and was also featured in an article in the scientific journal \"Canadian Journal of History\". Television and internet stories in the following weeks heightened the exposure and ultimately would include the production of several documentary films focused upon the topic of the 2060 prediction and some of Newton's lesser known beliefs and practices.\n\nThe two documents detailing this prediction are currently housed within the Jewish National and University Library in Jerusalem. Both were believed to be written toward the end of Newton's life, circa 1705, a time frame most notably established by the use of the full title of \"Sir\" Isaac Newton within portions of the documents.\n\nThese documents do not appear to have been written with the intention of publication and Newton expressed a strong personal dislike for individuals who provided specific dates for the Apocalypse purely for sensational value. Furthermore, he at no time provides a specific date for the end of the world in either of these documents.\n\nTo understand the reasoning behind the 2060 prediction, an understanding of Newton's theological beliefs should be taken into account, particularly his apparent antitrinitarian beliefs and his Protestant views on the Papacy. Both of these lay essential to his calculations, which ultimately would provide the 2060 time frame. See Isaac Newton's religious views for more details.\n\nThe first document, part of the Yahuda collection, is a small letter slip, on the back of which is written haphazardly in Newton's hand:\nThe second reference to the 2060 prediction can be found in a folio, in which Newton writes:\nClearly Newton's mathematical prediction of the end of the world is one derived from his interpretation of not only scripture, but also one based upon his theological viewpoint regarding specific chronological dates and events as he saw them.\n\nNewton may not have been referring to the post 2060 event as a destructive act resulting in the annihilation of the globe and its inhabitants, but rather one in which he believed the world, as he saw it, was to be replaced with a new one based upon a transition to an era of divinely inspired peace. In Christian and Islamic theology this concept is often referred to as The Second Coming of Jesus Christ and the establishment of The Kingdom of God on Earth. In a separate manuscript, Isaac Newton paraphrases Revelation 21 and 22 and relates the post 2060 events by writing:\nFor Newton's view of 2016 according to his contemporaries, see Religious views of Isaac Newton\n\nIsaac Newton wrote extensively upon the historical topic of chronology. In 1728 \"The Chronology of Ancient Kingdoms Amended\", an approximately 87,000-word composition that details the rise and history of various ancient kingdoms was published. The publication date of this work occurred after his death, although the majority of it had been reviewed for publication by Newton himself shortly before he died. As such, this work represents one of his last known personally reviewed publications. Sometime around 1701 he also produced a thirty page unpublished treatise entitled \"The Original of Monarchies\" detailing the rise of several monarchs throughout antiquity and tracing them back to the biblical figure of Noah.\n\nNewton's chronological writing is Eurocentric, with the earliest records focusing upon Greece, Anatolia, Egypt, and the Levant. Many of Newton's dates do not correlate with current historical knowledge. While Newton mentions several pre-historical events found within the Bible, the oldest actual historical date he provides is 1125 BC. In this entry he mentions Mephres, a ruler over Upper Egypt from the territories of Syene to Heliopolis, and his successor Misphragmuthosis. However, during 1125 BC the Pharaoh of Egypt is now understood to be Ramesses IX.\n\nAlthough some of the dates Newton provides for various events are accurate by 17th century standards, archaeology as a form of modern science did not exist in Newton's time. In fact, the majority of the conclusionary dates which Newton cites are based on the works of Herodotus, Pliny, Plutarch, Homer, and various other classical historians, authors, and poets; themselves often citing secondary sources and oral records of uncertain date. Newton's approach to chronology was focused upon gathering historical information from various sources found throughout antiquity and cataloguing them according to their appropriate date by his contemporary understanding, standards, and available source material.\n\nFound within \"The Chronology of Ancient Kingdoms Amended\", are several passages that directly mention the land of Atlantis. The first such passage is part of his \"Short Chronicle\" which indicates his belief that Homer's Ulysses left the island of Ogygia in 896 BC. In Greek mythology, Ogygia was home to Calypso, the daughter of Atlas (after whom Atlantis was named). Some scholars have suggested that Ogygia and Atlantis are locationally connected, or possibly the same island. From his writings it appears Newton may have shared this belief. Newton also lists Cadis or Cales as possible candidates for Ogygia, though does not cite his reasons for believing so.\n\nIsaac Newton has often been associated with various secret societies and fraternal orders throughout history. Due to the secretive nature of such organizations, lack of supportive publicized material, and dubious motives for claiming Newton's participation in these groups, it is difficult to establish his actual membership in any specific organization.\nIn particular, Jewish Isaac Newton is believed to be a 33-degree Scottish Rite Freemason since he was one of the 1717 founders of the Lodge of England, and by virtue of the number of masonic buildings have been dedicated in his honour.\n\nNewton theological writings had substantially been kept secret for 280 years and first published only in 2007. After his death, the Royal Society refused to conserve them and give back to the Newton's family, recommending not to publish and not to talk about that to anyone. The main exception was the book \"Observations upon the Prophecies of Daniel, and the Apocalypse of St. John\", first published in 1733 at London and Dublin by Benjamin Smith Barton, nephew of Barnabas, the step-father of Newton. Four years later, the book was translated in Latin by W. Suederman, and followed by twelve edition till 1922.\n\nThe \"Isaaci Newtoni Opera Omnia\" edited by Samuel Horsley in 1779-1785 didn't mention Newton religious writings, while the scientist Sir David Brewster (1781–1868) also read them and mentioned a very limited number in his biography of Newton.\nSir John Conduit, spouse of Catherine Barton, the niece of Newton, passed to manuscripts to his descendants, the Counts of Portsmouth, since in 1875 the entire collection was donated to the University of Cambridge that in 1888 published in London the book titled \"A Catalogue of the Portsmouth Collection of Books and Papers written or belonging to Sir Isaac Newton\". Many of the writings weren't again accepted by the Cambridge University and by the British Museum, and gave back to the Newton's family.\n\nIn the 1936 auction by Sotheby's, some writings were purchased by the economist Lord Keynes and then donated to the University Library, the King's and the Trinity College. \nReligious writing were purchased by A.S. Yahuda, which, immigrated in U.S: in 1940, tried to donate to the University Harvard, Yale and Princeton, that didn't accept. Finally, they were placed to the University of Jerusalem, translated and published in a minimal part by F. E. Manuel, till the 2007 unvealing.\n\nRegardless of his own membership status, Newton was a known associate of many individuals who themselves have often been labeled as members of various esoteric groups. It is unclear if these associations were a result of his being a well established and prominently publicized scholar, an early member and sitting President of the Royal Society (1703–1727), a prominent figure of State and Master of the Mint, a recognized Knight, or if Newton actually sought active membership within these esoteric organizations himself. Considering the nature and legality of alchemical practices during his lifetime, as well as his possession of various materials and manuscripts pertaining to alchemical research, Newton may very well have been a member of a group of like minded thinkers and colleagues. The organized level of this group (if in fact any existed), the level of their secrecy, as well as the depth of Newton's involvement within them, remains unclear.\n\nAlthough Newton was largely considered a reclusive personality and not prone to socializing, during his lifetime being a member of \"Societies\" or \"Clubs\" was a very popular form of interpersonal networking. Considering his esteemed social status, it is probable that Newton would have had a least some contact with such groups at various levels. He was most certainly a member of The Royal Society of London for the Improvement of Natural Knowledge and the Spalding Gentlemen's Society, however, these are considered learned societies, not esoteric societies. Newton's membership status within any particular secret society remains verifiably allusive and largely speculative, however, it still lends itself to popular sensationalism.\n\nPerhaps the movement which most influenced Isaac Newton was Rosicrucianism. Although the Rosicrucian movement had caused a great deal of excitement within Europe's scholarly community during the early seventeenth century, by the time Newton had reached maturity the movement had become less sensationalized. However, the Rosicrucian movement still would have a profound influence upon Newton, particularly in regard to his alchemical work and philosophical thought.\n\nThe Rosicrucian belief in being specially chosen for the ability to communicate with angels or spirits is echoed in Newton's prophetic beliefs. Additionally, the Rosicrucians proclaimed to have the ability to live forever through the use of the \"elixir vitae\" and the ability to produce limitless amounts of time and gold from the use of the philosopher's stone, which they claimed to have in their possession. Like Newton, the Rosicrucians were deeply religious, avowedly Christian, anti-Catholic, and highly politicised. Isaac Newton would have a deep interest in not just their alchemical pursuits, but also their belief in esoteric truths of the ancient past and the belief in enlightened individuals with the ability to gain insight into nature, the physical universe, and the spiritual realm.\n\nAt the time of his death, Isaac Newton had 169 books on the topic of alchemy in his personal library, and was believed to have considerably more books on this topic during his Cambridge years, though he may have sold them before moving to London in 1696. For its time, his was considered one of the finest alchemical libraries in the world. In his library, Newton left behind a heavily annotated personal copy of \"The Fame and Confession of the Fraternity R.C.\", by Thomas Vaughan which represents an English translation of The Rosicrucian Manifestos. Newton also possessed copies of \"Themis Aurea\" and \"Symbola Aurea Mensae Duodecium\" by the learned alchemist Michael Maier, both of which are significant early books about the Rosicrucian movement. These books were also extensively annotated by Newton.\n\nNewton's ownership of these materials by no means denotes membership within any early Rosicrucian order. Furthermore, considering that his personal alchemical investigations were focused upon discovering materials which the Rosicrucians professed to already be in possession of long before he was born, would seem to some to exclude Newton from their membership. However, in religious terms, the fact that a saint might have 'found God' would not preclude others from the search – quite the opposite. The Ancient & Mystical Order Rosae Crucis has always claimed Newton as a frater. During his own life, Newton was openly 'accused' of being a Rosicrucian, as were many members of The Royal Society. Although it is not known for sure if Isaac Newton was in fact a Rosicrucian, and he never publicly identified himself as one, from his writings it does appear that he may have shared many of their sentiments and beliefs.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47378778", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47378778", "title": "Islam and the Future of Tolerance", "text": "Islam and the Future of Tolerance\n\nIslam and the Future of Tolerance: A Dialogue is a 2015 book collaboration between American author Sam Harris and the British activist Maajid Nawaz.\n\nThe book is in dialogue format, and features an exchange between Harris, an atheist and a critic of religion, and Nawaz, an Islamist-turned-liberal activist. Harris argues that the doctrines of Islam are dangerous while Nawaz defends Islam by arguing that those dangerous doctrines have been circumvented by the tradition. Nawaz further argues that like any other religion, Islam is open to reform and will find its place in a secular world.\n\nThe book is published with the explicit purpose of furthering difficult conversations about Islam without \"devolving into bigotry or caricature\". The book also explores the differences between the religion of Islam and the ideology of Islamism.\n\n\"The Economist\", in its review, called it \"a short but intensive dialogue\" and noted that \"at times, Mr Nawaz is disarmingly frank.\" It goes on to say that Nawaz acknowledges that reformist Muslims like himself are a minority, but he insists that Islamists are also a minority because the majority are conservative Muslims. After noting the percentages of political Islamists, liberals and social conservatives in the Muslim community, and predicting the odds of success of the liberals depending on the support they get from the conservatives, \"The Economist\" declares the task a \"tall order\" and states \"no wonder Mr. Harris is politely sceptical.\"\n\nThe \"New Statesman\" called it \"something of a unicorn\" and credited the book for discussing \"Islamism and jihadism from a historical as well as a philosophical angle, with no trace of sentiment or dogma.\" Brian Stewart in the \"National Review\" also rated it positively, declaring it \"provocative and profane\" and lauded the authors for \"endeavoring to provide a spark\".\n\n\"Publishers Weekly\" also gave it a positive review noting that \"Harris, maintaining his provocative persona, asks questions and tosses ultimatums in the direction of Nawaz, who deftly replies with well-reasoned and thoughtful responses that will inform and inspire.\" According to cognitive scientist Steven Pinker, \"This honest and intelligent dialogue is a superb exploration of the intellectual and moral issues involved.\"\n\nIn pre-published reviews, \"Kirkus Reviews\" wrote, \"A wider range of viewpoints might have made this discussion even more valuable, but readers with a knee-jerk opinion of Islam will learn a lot.\" Writing for the \"New York Journal of Books\", Tara Sonenshine wrote \"The answer, they [Nawaz and Harris] seem to suggest, may rest in the ancient art of conversation, which this book offers.\"\n\nReviewing for \"The New York Times\", Canadian author Irshad Manji wrote, \"Their back-and-forth clarifies multiple confusions that plague the public conversation about Islam.\" She writes \"Harris is right that liberals must end their silence about the religious motives behind much Islamist terror. At the same time, he ought to call out another double standard that feeds the liberal reflex to excuse Islamists: Atheists do not make nearly enough noise about hatred toward Muslims.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15405084", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15405084", "title": "Jainism in Europe", "text": "Jainism in Europe\n\nThe credit of introducing Jainism to the West goes to a German scholar Hermann Jacobi who translated some Jain literature and published it in the series 'Sacred Books of East' in 1884.\nIn Europe, the largest Jain populations are in Britain with a population of about 25,000 (as of 2006).\n\nJains living outside India belong to various traditions, Digambara, Shvetambara, Terapanthi, Sthanakvasi, Shrimad Rajchandra are all represented. In many cases, they gather and worship together in spite of sectarian differences.\n\nThe Jain community in Ireland is involved across different occupations. \nThe Jains in Ireland are estimated to be around 1000 people. The majority live in and around Dublin but few families are spread across other part of countries including Northern Ireland. Jains in Ireland are well settled and respected community. Jain Samaj Ireland consists members of all different panths within Jainism.\n\nJain Samaj Ireland aspires to build a Jain Temple in Ireland and is actively seeking support and guidance from various other Samaj in India and across the world.\n\nThe Jain community in Europe, especially in Belgium, is mostly involved in the diamond business.\n\nThe Jains in Belgium are estimated to be around 1500 people. The majority live in Antwerp, working in the wholesale diamond business. Belgian Indian Jains control two-thirds of the rough diamonds trade and supplied India with roughly 36% of their rough diamonds. A beautiful & major temple, with a cultural centre, has been built in Antwerp (Wilrijk), the diamond capital. Their spiritual leader, Ramesh Mehta, is a full-fledged member of the Belgian Council of Religious Leaders put up on 17 December 2009.\n\nAs of 2016, there are around 35,000 Jains in the United Kingdom.\n\nOne of the first Jain settlers, Champat Rai Jain, was in England during 1892-1897 to study law. He established the Rishabh Jain Lending Library in 1930. Later, he translated several Jain texts into English.\n\nLeicester houses one of the world's few Jain temples outside of India. There is an Institute of Jainology at Greenford, London.\n\nThe last decade has seen the growth of the Jain community in Greater London. Currently the Jain Network have a derasar in Colindale and The Mahavir Foundation has a temple at Kenton Road, Kenton.It has consecrated images of Mahavir Swami, Parshvanath, Aadinath, Simandhar Swami and Munisuvrata Swami. It also has Padmavati Mata and Gautam Swami. There ia a separate shrine of Manibhadra Veer, Ghantakarna Mahavir and Nakoda Bhairavji\n\nShrimad Rajchandra Mission Dharampur also have UK centres in Leicester, London and Manchester.\n\n\n\nJainism A Way of Life by Vinod Kapashi\n"}
{"id": "18961068", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18961068", "title": "Jewish Communist Party of Austria", "text": "Jewish Communist Party of Austria\n\nThe Jewish Social Democratic Party \"Poale Zion\" (), later renamed Jewish Socialist Workers Party Poale Zion in German Austria (\"Jüdische sozialistische Arbeiterpartei Poale Zion in Deutschösterreich\") and Jewish Communist Party of Austria (\"Jüdische Kommunistische Partei Oesterreichs\"), was a political party in Austria. The party published \"Freie Tribune\" 1919-1921. The party was part of the international Jewish Communist Union (Poalei Zion), the left wing of the Labour Zionist \"Poale Zion\" movement.\n"}
{"id": "1695076", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1695076", "title": "Jose Maria Sison", "text": "Jose Maria Sison\n\nJosé María Canlás Sison (born February 8, 1939) is a Filipino writer and activist who founded the Communist Party of the Philippines and added elements of Maoism to its philosophy.\n\nSince August 2002, he has been classified as a \"person supporting terrorism\" by the United States. The European Union's second highest court ruled to delist him as a \"person supporting terrorism\" and reversed a decision by member governments to freeze assets.\n\nSison was born on February 8, 1939 in Cabugao to a prominent landowning family with ancestry from Fujian, China and with connections to other prominent clans such as the Crisologos, the Sollers, the Serranos, and the Singsons. His uncle was Teófilo Sison, a prominent politician who was convicted in 1946 of having collaborated with the Japanese occupation forces. During his childhood in Ilocos, he talked to his barber about the Hukbalahap activity, and unlike his relatives, attended a public school before entering Ateneo de Manila University and later studying at Colegio de San Juan de Letran.\n\nSison graduated from the University of the Philippines in 1959 and then studied in Indonesia before returning to the Philippines and becoming a university professor of literature. He joined the Lavaite Partido Komunista ng Pilipinas and was one of the founding members of both the Lapiang Manggagawa (which eventually became the Socialist Party) and Movement for the Advancement of Nationalism. In 1964, he co-founded the Kabataang Makabayan, or Patriotic Youth, with Nilo S. Tayag. This organization organized youth against the Vietnam War, Ferdinand Marcos, Imperialism, Bureaucrat Capitalism and Feudalism. The organization also spearheaded the studying of Maoism as part of 'the struggle'.\n\nOn December 26, 1968, he formed and led the Central Committee of the Communist Party of the Philippines (CPP), an organization founded on Marxism–Leninism-Mao Zedong Thought, stemming from his experience as a youth leader and labor and land reform activist. This is known as the First Great Rectification Movement where Sison and other radical youth criticized the existing Party leadership, that was run under the Moscow leaning Lava and its failure. The reestablished CPP set its general political line as two-stage revolution comprising national-democratic as the first stage then proceeding to the socialist revolution. During this period, Sison went by the nom de guerre of Amado Guerrero, meaning \"beloved warrior\", under which he published the manifesto Philippine Society and Revolution.\n\nAfter this, the old Communist Party sought to eliminate and marginalize Sison. However, the reorganized CPP had a larger base and renewed political line that attracted thousands to join its ranks. \nOn March 29, 1969, the CPP, along with an HMB (Huk) faction led by Bernabe Buscayno, organized the New People's Army (NPA), the guerrilla-military wing of the Party, whose insurgencies around the Philippines, particularly in the northern part of the country, persist to this day. The NPA seeks to wage a peasant-worker revolutionary war in the countryside against landlords and foreign companies by hiding in mountains as strategy for protection.\nSison was arrested during the Marcos presidency and was imprisoned for almost 9 years. His experience was described in \"Prison & Beyond\", a book of poetry released in 1986, which won the Southeast Asia WRITE award for the Philippines.\n\nThe CPP has stated for 20 years that Sison is no longer involved in operational decisions and serves from Europe in an advisory role. In 1986, after he was freed from prison, Sison embarked on a world tour. In October he accepted the Southeast Asia WRITE award for a book of his poems from the Crown Prince of Thailand in Bangkok. While visiting the Netherlands three months later, he was informed that his passport had been revoked and that charges had been filed against him under the Anti-Subversion Law of the Philippines. Those charges were later dropped, as have subsequent charges filed by authorities in the Philippines.\n\nSison met his wife, Julie de Lima, when both studied at UP Diliman. Attending the same study groups, they grew closer and married in 1960. The couple had four children. Their youngest daughter was born in 1981 in prison.\n\nThrough his wife Julie de Lima, Sison is the uncle of Leila de Lima, now a Senator, and the former secretary of Philippine Department of Justice under the Administration of President Benigno S. Aquino III.\n\nHe currently has colon cancer.\n\nSison went into exile in the Netherlands after the Marcos regime ended. He had already been released from prison by the government of Corazón Aquino for the sake of \"national reconciliation\" and for his role in opposing Marcos. The release of Sison was vehemently protested by the military. It is reported that upon his release, Sison and his followers actively sought to discredit the Aquino government in the European media by speaking out on Aquino's human rights violations including the Mendiola Massacre, in which members of the military were accused of firing on unarmed peasants in Manila, killing 17 people.\n\nHe is the chairperson of the International League of Peoples' Struggle, and the current Chief Political Consultant of the National Democratic Front of the Philippines. Since 1987, Sison has resided in the Netherlands where he is seeking asylum as a political refugee. A 2004 court ruling by the European Union endangers the residency status of Sison in Europe and he is expected to be expelled. He has been charged with orchestrating the 2001 murder of Congressman Rodolfo Aguinaldo in the Philippines. There has even been speculation the revocation of the death penalty in that country was in part to convince the Netherlands he could safely be deported, as he would have been facing the death penalty if convicted.\n\nThe International Crime Investigation Team of the Dutch National Criminal Investigation Department arrested Jose Maria Sison in Utrecht on August 28, 2007. Sison was arrested for his alleged involvement from the Netherlands in three assassinations that took place in the Philippines: the murder of Romulo Kintanar in 2003, and the murders of Arturo Tabara and Stephen Ong in 2006. On the day of his arrest, Sison's apartment and eight apartments of his co-workers were searched by the Dutch National Criminal Investigation Department.\n\nSome 100 left-wing activists held a demonstration for the release of Sison, marching towards the Dutch embassy in Manila on August 30, 2007. The demonstration was ended by the police.\n\nThere were no plans to hold the trial in the Philippines since there was no extradition request and the crimes Jose Maria Sison is accused of were committed in the Netherlands. Dutch lawyer, Victor Koppe said that Sison would enter a plea of not guilty during his indictment. He could have faced the maximum penalty of life imprisonment. \n\nOn September 1, 2007, National Democratic Front peace panel chair Luis Jalandoni confirmed that the Dutch government was \"maltreating\" Sison because the Court detained him in solitary confinement for several weeks without access to media, newspapers, television, radio or visitors; it also denied him the right to bring prescription medicines to his cell. The place where Sison was held was the same one used by the late former Yugoslav president Slobodan Milosevic who was held for war crimes and corruption. Meanwhile, protests were held in Indonesia, Hong Kong, Australia, the United States and Canada. The Communist Party of the Philippines (CPP) feared Sison may be \"\"extra-judicially\" transferred to the United States. CPP spokesman Gregorio Rosal said that the U.S. may detain and subject Sison to extraordinary rendition in Guantanamo Bay or some secret facility. U.S. ambassador Kristie Ann Kenney formally announced that the U.S. will extend support to the Dutch government to prosecute Sison.\n\nIn New York City, former United States Attorney General and left-wing human rights lawyer Ramsey Clark called for Sison's release and pledged assistance by joining the latter's legal defense team headed by Jan Fermon. Clark doubted Dutch authorities'\n\"validity and competency,\" since the murder charges originated in the Philippines and had already been dismissed by the country's Supreme Court.\n\nCommittee DEFEND, an International group stated that the Dutch government tortured Sison at the National Penitentiary in Scheveningen (used by the Nazis in World War II to torture Dutch resistance fighters). His wife, Julie De Lima failed to see him to give medicines and warm clothes on August 30, 2007.\n\nOn September 7, 2007, the Dutch court heard defense arguments for Sison, and stated that it would issue the resolution next week on whether to extend the detention. Supporters outside the Hague District Court chanted slogans while the wife, Julie De Lima stated that they complained to the International Committee of the Red Cross. Luis Jalandoni, chairman of the National Democratic Front accused the government of Prime Minister Jan Peter Balkenende of being \"a workhorse\"\" for Philippines President Gloria Macapagal Arroyo and for the U.S. government.\n\nThe National Lawyers Guild (NLG), a progressive bar association in New York headed by Marjorie Cohnhas, denounced the arrest Sison: \"it exposes the hand of the Arroyo administration in yet another assault on the rights of the people to dissent and organize.\" Sison will remain in jail until Thursday, but was provided TV, radio and medication.\n\nOn September 12, 2007, lawyers Edre Olalia and Rachel Pastores stated that Sison's lawyers will appeal the Dutch court's newly promulgated ruling extending Sison's detention for 90 days.\n\nDutch public prosecutor's office's Wim de Bruin stated that Sison was released from jail at 10:45 a.m. on September 13, 2007. The court ruled that there was insufficient evidence to detain him on murder charges, specifically, if Sison \"\"had a conscious and close cooperation with those in the Philippines who carried out the deed\".\"\n\nOn September 27, 2007, Sison appeared before the Hague Court of Appeal panel of 3 judges on the public prosecutor's appeal against the district court's September 13 judgment of release. \n\nOn September 28, 2007, the Dutch Ambassador to the Philippines, Robert Brinks, announced that 3 Dutch judicial officials and Dutch prosecution lawyer Wim De Bruin will visit the Philippines \"later this year\" to review the evidence against Jose Maria Sison. The next day Leung Kwok Hung, a Hong Kong politician and member of the April Fifth Action vowed to support Sison. Leung was in Europe at the Inter-Parliamentary Union assembly in Geneva, Switzerland. He sits in the Hong Kong legislature as a member of the Finance and House Committees, and of the Legislative Panels on Constitutional Affairs, Housing, Manpower, Transport, and on Welfare Services.\n\nOn October 3, 2007, the Dutch court dismissed the prosecution's appeal against the release Sison, confirming his freedom while the Dutch police continue to investigate: \"the prosecution file lacks enough concrete clues that Sison can be directly linked to the assassinations which is needed to prosecute him as a perpetrator\". However, the decision does not bar prosecution for murder. But the Dutch Public Prosecutor's Office (per spokesman Wim de Bruin) stated that it did not drop the charges against Sison yet, who remains a suspect. De Bruin said: \"No, you have to separate the criminal investigation by the police from the investigation by the examining judge in The Hague. So the judge decided to finish the investigation but the police investigation will be continued and that means that Mr. Sison is still a suspect\".\n\nThe Dutch court on May 20, 2008, heard Sison's appeal against the Dutch Public Prosecutors Office's request to extend its investigation until December, since the investigators arrived in the Philippines in February and interviewed witnesses. At the trial, however, the new evidence showed that there were indeed attempts to kill him, in 1999 and 2000, while Kintanar's wife, Joy, directly accused Edwin Garcia in the murder of her husband. The Dutch court scheduled the promulgation on the verdict on June 10, 2008.\n\nThe Dutch District Court of The Hague on June 5, 2008 decided in camera \"that the Public Prosecution Service may continue the prosecution of Jose Maria Sison for involvement in, among other matters, a number of murders committed in the Philippines in 2003 and 2004; that while the prosecution's case file still held insufficient evidence, the investigation was ongoing and should be given time to unfold.\"\n\nFormer Senator Jovito Salonga accused Sison of orchestrating the 1971 Plaza Miranda bombing during the Liberal Party Convention to force Marcos to suspend the writ of habeas corpus and sign Proclamation Number 1081 initiating the advent of Martial Law in the Philippines. This accusation comes from former CPP members such as Victor Corpuz and others. The Philippine National Police (PNP) filed a criminal case against Sison for the Plaza Miranda bombing, but the charges were dismissed for lack of evidence, with the dismissal order citing the complainant's filing criminal charges based on speculation.\n\nOn July 4, 2008, Manila's RTC Executive Judge Reynaldo Ros assumed jurisdiction over the 1,551 pages records/cases of multiple murder lawsuit against Sison, Bayan Muna Representative Satur Ocampo and National Democratic Front member Luis Jalandoni after the Supreme Court's Third Division ordered a change of venue from the Hilongos, Leyte RTC Branch 18, for safety reasons. The accused were charged of executing 30 farmers in 1985, in purging military assets within the New People's Army in Southern Leyte. 15 corpses were found in a mass grave in Inopacan, Leyte, in 2006. During the time when these alleged killings supposedly took place, Sison and Ocampo had long been under maximum detention of the Marcos regime. Sison, Ocampo, and other political detainees were only freed in 1986 after the first EDSA uprising of the same year.\n\nThe European Union's second highest court ruled to delist Sison and the Stichting Al-Aqsa group from the EU terror list since the 27-nation bloc failed to respect their right when blacklisted. The Luxembourg-based Court of Justice further reversed a decision by member governments to freeze the assets of Sison and the Netherlands-based Al-Aqsa Foundation, since the EU governments failed to inform them why the assets were frozen. Dekker said that EU lawyers in Brussels can lodge any appeal. EU was also ordered to shoulder all the litigation expenses during the five-year appeal of Sison against the Dutch government and the EU. Sison however, is still part of the European Union's terrorism list according to the Royal Netherlands Embassy in the Philippines (July 13, 2007). In a media released one-page statement, the embassy said that all persons and organizations on the EU terrorism list [and] includes Mr. Sison, the CPP, and the NPA [New People's Army] on the list and maintains the freeze on their assets. National Security Adviser Norberto Gonzales explained that the EU's decision is \"not enforceable\": \"The council is higher than the court. There is a provision in the EU Charter that when a court ruling goes against the council's decision, the latter will be upheld. The council has decided he is a terrorist, and because of this his assets should be frozen\". Gonzalez said, the Luxembourg-based court did not categorically say Sison's assets should be released, but had merely questioned the process.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21132127", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21132127", "title": "Joseph Dinouart", "text": "Joseph Dinouart\n\nJoseph Antoine Toussaint Dinouart (November 1, 1716 – April 23, 1786) was a preacher, polemicist, compiler of sacred learning, and apologist for French feminism.\n\nBorn in Amiens, he was ordained as a priest in there in 1740. In his youth, he showed a talent for Latin poetry, but soon neglected this in favor of his religious studies. After writing a short essay on women's rights, he had a falling out with his bishop and moved to Paris, where he joined the Saint-Eustache parish. He soon left, however, to tutor the son of a police lieutenant. This position gave him a stable yearly income and allowed Dinouart to devote himself to the study of literature.\n\nIn 1760, he founded the Journal ecclésiastique, which he edited until his death. The collected work of this journal numbers more than 100 volumes. It contains extracts from sermons, treatises on morality and piety, and research on ecclesiastical law and councils.\n\n1. \"Lettre à l'abbé Gouget, au sujet des hymnes de Santeuil, adoptées dans le nouveau Bréviaire\"\n2. \"Le Triomphe du sexe\"\n3. \"Éloquence du corps dans le ministère de la chaire\"\n4. \"Manuel des pasteurs\"\n5. \"Exercitium diurnum, seu Manuale precum in usum et gratiam sacerdotum ; nunc denuo editum a sacerdote gallicano exsule\"\n\nFather Dinouart made numerous translations from Latin, including a translation of Cicero.\n\nDinouart served as the editor or compiler of many books and journals. Among these was \"L'art de se taire, principalement en matière de religion\", a nearly perfection transcription of an earlier anonymous work entitled \"Conduite pour se taire et pour parler, principalement en matière de religion\". This was re-issued in Paris in 1987.\n\n\"Joseph Antoine Toussaint Dinouart.\" \"Biographie universelle ancienne et moderne : histoire par ordre alphabétique de la vie publique et privée de tous les hommes avec la collaboration de plus de 300 savants et littérateurs français ou étrangers\", Ed. Louis-Gabriel Michaud. 1843–1865.\n\nsee also \n"}
{"id": "46446031", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46446031", "title": "Karnapidasana", "text": "Karnapidasana\n\nKarnapidasana is an Asana (yoga posture). It is translated as Ear Pressure Pose from Sanskrit (कपोतासन) IAST:\"Karṇapīḍāsana\"). \n\nThe name comes from the Sanskrit words \"Karna\" meaning \"ears\" and \"Asana\" (आसन, Āsana) meaning \"posture\" or \"seat\".\n\nKarṇapīḍāsana is also known as Raja Halasana (Plow Pose)\n1. Practitioner starts with Halasana on the yoga mat. \n2. Bend the knees bringing them to the floor and towards the ears.\n3. Keep the hands interlaced behind the back, if not support back as in salamba sarvangasana with closing your eyes.\n4. Finally hold in this pose for at least 10 seconds.\nBreathe deeply while performing this asana.\n\n\"Benefits of Knee to Ear Pose (Karnapidasana)\"\n1. Stretches and strengthens the whole spinal column\n2. Improves lung strength so can be beneficial for asthma sufferers \n3. Stimulates the abdominal organs, and thyroid gland\n4. Stretches the shoulders and spine\n5. Controls hypertension\n6. Relieves the symptoms of menopause\n7. Reduces stress and fatigue and is good for calming the mind\n8. Treat insomnia, sinusitis, infertility, headache, and some types of backache\n9.Stretches and strengthens the whole spinal column\n\n1. If the student has limited flexibility they should keep their hands on their low back with bent knees until they are able to lower their knees enough to feel stable in the full posture. \n2. Contraindication Focus include Diarrhoea, Menstruation, Neck injuries, Blocked arteries and Pregnancy\n\n1. Beginners should support their back with the hands .\n2. One variation is to keep your feet on a block behind your head\n3. Other variation is to bring your knees to your forehead and bring the hands to the ears\n\nCounter asanas are Matsyasana (Fish Pose), Chaturanga Dandasana (Four-Limbed Staff Pose), Astavakrasana (Eight-Crooks Pose) and Titibasana (Firefly Pose)\n\nKarṇapīḍāsana is one of the counter pose to Sarvangasana (shoulder stand). The thoracic spine is in maximum flexation which can result in problems elsewhere in the spine or knees. The hip flexors and abdominal muscles are required to maintain the pose which stretches the extensors of the spine, the rhomboids and trapezius muscle. To avoid oversterching the cervical spine (neck), the yogi should be able to hold salamba sarvagasana for five minutes. And to protect the lumbar spine (torso) and knees the yogi should be able to stay in halasana for one minute. If the muscles are too short and the pose performed too passively, then the muscles being lengthened can be overstretched.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "354671", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=354671", "title": "Kateri Tekakwitha", "text": "Kateri Tekakwitha\n\nSaint Kateri Tekakwitha ( in Mohawk), given the name Tekakwitha, baptized as Catherine and informally known as Lily of the Mohawks (1656 – April 17, 1680), is a Roman Catholic saint who was an Algonquin–Mohawk laywoman. Born in the Mohawk village of Ossernenon, on the south side of the Mohawk River, she contracted smallpox in an epidemic; her family died and her face was scarred. She converted to Roman Catholicism at age nineteen, when she was renamed Kateri, baptized in honor of Saint Catherine of Siena. Refusing to marry, she left her village and moved for the remaining 5 years of her life to the Jesuit mission village of Kahnawake, south of Montreal in New France, now Canada.\n\nTekakwitha took a vow of perpetual virginity. Upon her death at the age of 24, witnesses said that minutes later her scars vanished and her face appeared radiant and beautiful. Known for her virtue of chastity and mortification of the flesh, as well as being shunned by some of her tribe for her religious conversion to Catholicism, she is the fourth Native American to be venerated in the Roman Catholic Church and the first to be canonized.\n\nUnder the pontificate of Pope John Paul II, she was beatified in 1980 and canonized by Pope Benedict XVI at Saint Peter's Basilica on 21 October 2012. Various miracles and supernatural events are attributed to her intercession.\n\n\"Tekakwitha\" is the name the girl was given by her Mohawk people. It translates to \"She who bumps into things.\" She was born around 1656 in the Mohawk village of Ossernenon considerably west of present-day Auriesville, New York. (A nineteenth-century tradition that Auriesville developed at the site of Ossernenon has been disproved by archeological findings, according to Dean R. Snow and other specialists in Native American history in New York.)\n\nShe was the daughter of Kenneronkwa, a Mohawk chief, and Tagaskouita, an Algonquin woman, who had been captured in a raid, then adopted and assimilated into the tribe. Tagaskouita had been baptized Roman Catholic and educated by French missionaries in Trois-Rivières, east of Montreal. Mohawk warriors captured her and took her to their homeland. Tagaskouita eventually married Kenneronkwa. Tekakwitha was the first of their two children. A brother followed.\n\nTekakwitha's original village was highly diverse, as the Mohawk were absorbing many captured natives of other tribes, particularly their competitors the Huron, to replace people who died from European diseases or warfare. While from different backgrounds, such captives were adopted into the tribe to become full members and were expected to fully assimilate as Mohawk.\n\nThe Mohawk suffered a severe smallpox epidemic from 1661 to 1663, causing high fatalities. When Tekakwitha was around four years old, her baby brother and both her parents died of smallpox. She survived, but was left with facial scars and impaired eyesight. She was adopted by her father's sister and her husband, a chief of the Turtle Clan. Before the epidemic, in 1659 some Mohawk had founded a new village on the north side of the river, which they called Caughnawaga (\"at the wild water\" in the Mohawk language). Survivors of Ossernenon moved to that village.\n\nThe Jesuits’ account of Tekakwitha said that she was a modest girl who avoided social gatherings; she covered much of her head with a blanket because of the smallpox scars. They said that, as an orphan, the girl was under the care of uninterested relatives. But, according to Mohawk practices, she was probably well taken care of by her clan, her mother and uncle's extended family, with whom she lived in the longhouse. She became skilled at traditional women’s arts, which included making clothing and belts from animal skins; weaving mats, baskets and boxes from reeds and grasses; and preparing food from game, crops and gathered produce. She took part in the women's seasonal planting and intermittent weeding. As was the custom, she was pressured to consider marriage around age thirteen, but she refused.\n\nTekakwitha grew up in a period of upheaval, as the Mohawk interacted with French and Dutch colonists, who were competing in the lucrative fur trade. The Mohawk originally traded with the Dutch, who had settled in Albany and Schenectady. The French traded with and were allied with the Huron.\n\nTrying to make inroads in Iroquois territory, the French attacked the Mohawk in present-day central New York in 1666. After driving the people from their homes, the French burned the three Mohawk villages on the south side of the river, destroying the longhouses, wigwams, and the women's corn and squash fields. Tekakwitha, around ten years old, fled with her new family into a cold October forest.\n\nAfter the defeat by the French forces, the Mohawk were forced into a peace treaty that required them to accept Jesuit missionaries in their villages. The Jesuits established a mission that later developed as Auriesville, New York. While there, the Jesuits studied Mohawk and other native languages in order to reach the people. They spoke of Christianity in terms with which the Mohawk could identify. In his work on Tekakwitha, Darren Bonaparte notes the parallels between some elements of Mohawk and Christian belief. For instance, the Jesuits used the word \"Karonhià:ke,\" the Mohawk name for Sky World, as the word for heaven in the Lord’s Prayer in Mohawk. \"This was not just a linguistic shortcut, but a conceptual bridge from one cosmology to another.\"\n\nThe Mohawk settled Caughnawaga on the north bank, west of the present-day town of Fonda, New York. In 1667, when Tekakwitha was 11 years old, she met the Jesuit missionaries Jacques Frémin, Jacques Bruyas, and Jean Pierron, who had come to the village. Her uncle opposed any contact with them because he did not want her to convert to Christianity. One of his older daughters had already left Caughnawaga to go to Kahnawake, the Catholic mission village across the St. Lawrence River from Montreal.\n\nIn the summer of 1669, several hundred Mohican warriors, advancing from the east, launched a dawn attack on Caughnawaga. Rousing quickly to the defense, Mohawk villagers fought off the invaders, who kept Caughnawaga under siege for three days. Tekakwitha, now around 13 years old, joined other girls to help priest Jean Pierron tend to the wounded, bury the dead, and carry food and water to the defending warriors on the palisades.\n\nWhen reinforcements arrived from other Mohawk villages, the defenders drove the Mohican warriors into retreat. The victorious Mohawk pursued the Mohican warriors, attacking them in the forest, killing over 80 and capturing several others. Returning to Caughnawaga amid widespread celebration, the victors tortured the captive Mohicans—thirteen men and four women—for two afternoons in succession, planning to execute them on the third. Pierron, tending to the captives, implored the torturers to stop, but they ignored him. Pierron instructed the captives in Catholic doctrine as best he could and baptized them before they died under torture.\n\nLater in 1669, the Iroquois Feast of the Dead, held every ten years, was convened at Caughnawaga. Some Oneida people came, along with Onondaga led by their famous sachem Garakontié. The remains of Tekakwitha's parents, along with the many others who had died in the previous decade, were to be carefully exhumed, so that their souls could be released to wander to the spirit land to the west.\n\nAccording to a 1936 book about Tekakwitha, Father Pierron attacked the beliefs and logic of the Feast of the Dead. The assembled Iroquois, upset over his remarks, ordered him to be silent. But Pierron continued, telling the Iroquois to give up their \"superstitious\" rites. Under Garakontié's protection, Pierron finished his speech. He demanded that, to secure continued friendship with the French, the Iroquois give up their Feast of the Dead, their faith in dreams as a guide to action, and the worship of their war god. At length, the assembled Iroquois relented. Exchanging gifts with priest Pierron, they promised to give up the customs he had denounced. Garakontié later converted to Christianity.\n\nIn 1671, Mohawk chief Ganeagowa, who had led his warriors to victory against the Mohican, returned from a long hunting trip in the north to announce he had become a Christian. He had come upon the Catholic Iroquois village set up by Jesuits at La Prairie, southeast of Montreal. There he made friendly contact with priest Jacques Frémin, who had served as a missionary in Mohawk country. Influenced by the Catholic faith of the Iroquois villagers and of his own wife Satékon, Ganeagowa received instruction for several months from Father Frémin, who accepted him into the Church.\n\nBy the time Tekakwitha turned 17 around 1673, her adoptive mother (her father's sister) and aunt (uncle's sister) had become concerned over her lack of interest in marriage. They tried to arrange her marriage to a young Mohawk man by instructing him to sit down beside her. They indicated to Tekakwitha that the young man wanted to marry her. Accordingly, they pressured her to offer him a certain dish made with corn. Iroquois custom regarded this as a woman's sign of openness to marriage. Tekakwitha fled the cabin and hid from her family in a nearby field. Tekakwitha was said to have been punished by her aunts with ridicule, threats, and harsh workloads. But Tekakwitha continued to resist marriage. Eventually, her aunts gave up their efforts to get her to marry.\n\nIn the spring of 1674 at age eighteen, Tekakwitha met the Jesuit Father Jacques de Lamberville, who was visiting in the village. Most of the women were out harvesting corn, but Tekakwitha had injured her foot and was in the cabin. In the presence of others, Tekakwitha told him her story and her desire to become a Christian. After this she started studying the catechism with him.\n\nLamberville wrote in his journal in the years after her death about Tekakwitha. This text described her, before she was baptized, as a girl who was mild-mannered and behaved very well. Lamberville also stated that Kateri did everything she could in order to stay holy in a secular society, which often caused minor conflicts with her longhouse residents. These conflicts suggested no violence, which contradicts future texts.\n\nJudging her ready, Lamberville baptized Tekakwitha at the age of 19, on Easter Sunday, April 18, 1676. Tekakwitha was baptized \"Catherine\" after St. Catherine of Siena (Kateri was the Mohawk form of the name.)\n\nAfter Kateri was baptized, she remained in Caughnawauga for another 6 months. Some Mohawks opposed her conversion and accused her of sorcery. Lamberville suggested that she go to the Jesuit mission of Kahnawake, located south of Montreal on the St. Lawrence River, where other native converts had gathered. Catherine joined them in 1677.\n\nTekakwitha was said to have put thorns on her sleeping mat and to have lain on them while praying for the conversion and forgiveness of her kinsmen. Piercing the body to draw blood was a traditional practice of the Mohawk and other Iroquois nations. She lived at Kahnawake the remaining two years of her life. She learned more about Christianity under her mentor Anastasia, who taught her about the practice of repenting for one’s sins. When the women learned of nuns, they wanted to form their own convent and created an informal association of devout women.\n\nFather Cholonec wrote that Tekakwitha said,\nThe Church considers that in 1679, with her decision on the Feast of the Annunciation, her conversion was truly completed and she became the \"first virgin\" among the Mohawk.\n\nThe Jesuits had founded Kahnawake for the religious conversion of the natives. When it began, the natives built their traditional longhouses for residences. They also built a longhouse to be used as a chapel by the Jesuits. As a missionary settlement, Kahnawake was at risk of being attacked by members of the Iroquois Confederacy who had not converted to Catholicism. (While it attracted other Iroquois, it was predominantly Mohawk, the major tribe in eastern New York.)\n\nAfter Catherine's arrival, she shared the longhouse of her older sister and her husband. She would have known other people in the longhouse who had migrated from their former village of Gandaouagué (also spelled Caughnawaga). Her mother’s close friend, Anastasia Tegonhatsiongo, was clan matron of the longhouse. Anastasia and other Mohawk women introduced Tekakwitha to the regular practices of Christianity.\n\nClaude Chauchetière and Pierre Cholenec were Jesuit priests who played important roles in Tekakwitha’s life. Both were based in New France and in Kahnawake. Chauchetière was the first to write a biography of Tekakwitha’s life, followed by Cholenec, in 1695 and 1696, respectively. Cholenec arrived in New France in 1672, before Chauchetière. Father Cholenec introduced whips, hair shirts and iron girdles, traditional items of Catholic mortification, to the converts at Kahnawake. He wanted them to adopt these rather than use Mohawk ritual practices. Both Chauchetière and Tekakwitha arrived in Kahnawake the same year, in 1677.\n\nHe later wrote about having been very impressed by her, as he had not expected a native to be so pious. Chauchetière came to believe that Catherine Tekakwitha was a saint. Jesuits generally thought that the natives needed Christian guidance to be set on the right path. Chauchetière acknowledged that close contact with and deeper knowledge of the natives in Kahnawake changed some of his set notions about the people and about differences among human cultures. In his biography of Kateri, he stressed her \"charity, industry, purity, and fortitude.\" In contrast, Cholenec stressed her virginity, perhaps to counter white stereotypes at the time characterizing Indian women as promiscuous.\n\nTekakwitha believed in the value of offered suffering. She did not eat very much and was said to add undesirable tastes to her food. She would lie on a mat with thorns. There was a custom among some Native American peoples of the time of piercing oneself with thorns in thanksgiving for some good or an offering for the needs of one's self or others. Knowing the terrible burns given to prisoners, she burned herself. Her spiritual counselor, Anastasia, seems to have encouraged her penances. With her friend Marie-Thérèse, Tekakwitha readily took up penances. Her health had always been poor and it weakened. Marie-Thérèse sought the help of Father Chauchetière. He scolded the young women, saying that penance must be used in moderation. He told the two that they must have him approve their penances lest they become unreasonable. Tekakwitha listened to the priest. From then on, Tekakwitha practiced whatever penance the priest would allow her, but nothing more.\n\nUpon her arrival in the Christian community, Catherine befriended Marie-Thérèse. They prayed together often. Marie Skarichions told Catherine and Marie-Thérèse about women religious. Through their mutual quest, the two women had a strong \"spiritual friendship,\" as described by the Jesuits. The two women influenced a circle of associates. When they asked the Jesuits for permission to form a group of native disciples, they were told they were too \"young in faith\" for such a group. The women continued to practice their faith together.\n\nAround Holy Week of 1680, friends noted that Tekakwitha's health was failing. When people knew she had but a few hours left, villagers gathered together, accompanied by the priests Chauchetière and Cholenec, the latter providing the last rites. Catherine Tekakwitha died at around 15:00 (3 p.m.) on Holy Wednesday, April 17, 1680, at the age of 23 or 24, in the arms of her friend Marie-Therèse. Chauchetière reports her final words were, \"Jesus, Mary, I love you.\"\n\nAfter her death, the people noticed a physical change. Cholenec later wrote, \"This face, so marked and swarthy, suddenly changed about a quarter of an hour after her death, and became in a moment so beautiful and so white that I observed it immediately.\" Her smallpox scars were said to disappear.\n\nTekakwitha purportedly appeared to three individuals in the weeks after her death; her mentor Anastasia Tegonhatsiongo, her friend Marie-Therèse Tegaiaguenta, and Father Chauchetière. Anastasia said that, while crying over the death of her spiritual daughter, she looked up to see Catherine \"kneeling at the foot\" of her mattress, \"holding a wooden cross that shone like the sun.\" Marie-Thérèse reported that she was awakened at night by a knocking on her wall, and a voice asked if she were awake, adding, \"I’ve come to say good-bye; I’m on my way to heaven.\" Marie-Thérèse went outside but saw no one; she heard a voice murmur, \"Adieu, Adieu, go tell the father that I’m going to heaven.\" Chauchetière meanwhile said he saw Catherine at her grave; he said she appeared in \"baroque splendour; for two hours he gazed upon her\" and \"her face lifted toward heaven as if in ecstasy.\"\n\nChauchetière had a chapel built near Kateri's gravesite. By 1684, pilgrimages had begun to honour her there. The Jesuits turned her bones to dust and set the ashes within the \"newly rebuilt mission chapel.\" This symbolized her presence on earth, and her remains were sometimes used as relics for healing.\n\nTekakwitha's gravestone reads:\n\nThe first account of Kateri Tekakwitha was not published until 1715. Because of Tekakwitha's notable path to chastity, she is often referred to as a lily, a traditional symbol of purity associated with the Virgin Mary since the medieval period. Religious images of Tekakwitha are often decorated with a lily and cross, with feathers or turtle as cultural accessories alluding to her Native American birth. Colloquial terms for Tekakwitha are \"The Lily of the Mohawks\" (most notable), the \"Mohawk Maiden\", the \"Pure and Tender Lily\", the \"Flower among True Men\", the \"Lily of Purity\" and \"The New Star of the New World\". Her tribal neighbors referred to her as \"the fairest flower that ever bloomed among the redmen.\" Her virtues are considered an ecumenical bridge between Mohawk and European cultures.\n\nFor some time after her death, Tekakwitha was considered an honorary yet unofficial patroness of Montreal, Canada, and Indigenous peoples of the Americas. Fifty years after her death, a convent for Native American nuns opened in Mexico. They have prayed for her and supported her canonization.\n\nIndian Catholic missions and bishops in the 1880s wrote a petition pushing for the veneration of Tekakwitha. In that petition, they stated that she was pure and holy in addition to being a gift unto the Native Americans. They asked for the venerations of Tekakwitha as well as Jesuit Father Isaac Jogues and Brother René Goupil, two Catholic Missionaries who had been slain by the Mohawks in Osernnenon a few decades before Kateri’s birth. They concluded their petition by stating that these venerations will help encourage Catholicism among other Indians.\n\nThe process for Tekakwitha's canonization was initiated by United States Catholics at the Third Plenary Council of Baltimore in 1884, followed by Canadian Catholics. January 3, 1943, Pope Pius XII declared her venerable. She was beatified as Catherine Tekakwitha on June 22, 1980, by Pope John Paul II.\n\nOn December 19, 2011, the Congregation for the Causes of Saints certified a second miracle through her intercession, signed by Pope Benedict XVI, which paved the way for pending canonization. On February 18, 2012, Pope Benedict XVI decreed that Tekakwitha be canonized. Speaking in Latin, he used the form \"Catharina Tekakwitha\"; the official booklet of the ceremony referred to her in English and Italian, as \"Kateri Tekakwitha\". She was canonized on October 21, 2012 by Pope Benedict XVI. In the official canonization rite booklet, \"Catherine\" is used in the English and French biographies and \"Kateri\" in the translation of the rite itself. She is the first Native American woman of North America to be canonized by the Roman Catholic Church.\n\nTekakwitha is featured in four national shrines in the United States: the National Shrine of Blessed Kateri Tekakwitha in Fonda, New York; the National Shrine of the North American Martyrs in Auriesville, New York; the Basilica of the National Shrine of the Immaculate Conception in Washington, D.C.; and The National Shrine of the Cross in the Woods, an open-air sanctuary in Indian River, Michigan. The design of the latter shrine was inspired by Kateri's habit of placing small wooden crosses throughout the woods. One statue on the grounds shows her cradling a cross in her arms, surrounded by turtles.\n\nA statue of Tekakwitha is installed outside the Basilica of Sainte-Anne-de-Beaupré in Quebec, Canada. Another is installed at the Cathedral Basilica of St. Francis of Assisi in Santa Fe, New Mexico.\n\nTekakwitha has been featured in recently created religious works. In 2007, the Grand Retablo, a 40-foot-high work by Spanish artisans, was installed behind the main altar of the Mission Basilica San Juan Capistrano in Orange County, California. It features Catherine Tekakwitha, Junipero Serra, St. Joseph, and Francis of Assisi.\n\nA bronze statue of Kateri kneeling in prayer was installed in 2008, created by artist Cynthia Hitschler, along the devotional walkway leading to the Shrine of Our Lady of Guadalupe, La Crosse, Wisconsin.\n\nJoseph Kellogg was a Protestant child captured by Natives in the eighteenth century and eventually returned to his home. Twelve months later, he caught smallpox. The Jesuits helped treat him, but he was not recovering. They had relics from Tekakwitha’s grave, but did not want to use them on a non-Catholic. One Jesuit told Kellogg that, if he would become a Roman Catholic, help would come to him. Joseph did so. The Jesuit gave him a piece of decayed wood from Kateri's coffin, which is said to have made him heal. The historian Allan Greer takes this account to mean that Tekakwitha was known in 18th-century New France, and she was already perceived to have healing abilities.\n\nOther miracles were attributed to Kateri: Father Rémy recovered his hearing and a nun in Montreal was cured by using items formerly belonging to Catherine. Such incidents were evidence that Catherine was possibly a saint. Following the death of a person, sainthood is symbolized by events that show the rejection of death. It is also represented by a duality of pain and a neutralisation of the other’s pain (all shown by her reputed miracles in New France). Father Chauchetière told settlers in La Prairie to pray to Catherine for intercession with illnesses. Due to the Jesuits' superior system of publicizing material, his words and Catherine’s fame were said to reach Jesuits in China and their converts.\n\nAs people believed in her healing powers, some collected earth from her gravesite and wore it in bags as a relic. One woman said she was saved from pneumonia (\"grande maladie du rhume\"); she gave the pendant to her husband, who was healed from his disease.\n\nOn December 19, 2011, Pope Benedict XVI approved the second miracle needed for Kateri's canonization. The authorized miracle dates from 2006, when a young boy in Washington state survived a severe flesh-eating bacterium. Doctors had been unable to stop the progress of the disease by surgery and advised his parents he was likely to die. The boy received the sacrament of Anointing of the Sick from a Catholic priest. As the boy is half Lummi Indian, the parents said they prayed through Tekakwitha for divine intercession, as did their family and friends, and an extended network contacted through their son's classmates. A Catholic nun, Sister Kateri Mitchell, visited the boy's bedside and placed a relic of Tekakwitha, a bone fragment, against his body and prayed together with his parents. The next day, the infection stopped its progression.\n\nMohawk scholar Orenda Boucher noted that despite extensive support for canonization of Tekakwitha, some traditional Mohawk see her as a connection to the worst aspects of colonialism. They do not believe that she embodied nor reflected traditional Mohawk womanhood.\n\nAmerican Protestants directed negative response towards Tekakwitha’s veneration. Historian Allan Greer, who studied connections between Tekakwitha and anti-Catholicism in America, stated that Catholics needed her in a society that viewed the Church as foreign. Protestants were afraid that the canonizations of US saints would bring more Catholic power into America, while the Catholics wanted to solidify the Church more into society. Protestant newspapers such as the Methodist Review warned its readers to beware of these canonizations.\n\nThe historian K. I. Koppedrayer has suggested that the Catholic Church fathers' hagiography of Tekakwitha reflected \"some of the trials and rewards of the European presence in the New World.\" She captured the imagination of some observers. Based on accounts from two Jesuit priests who knew her, at least 300 books have been published in more than 20 languages on the life of Kateri Tekakwitha.\n\nIn addition, Tekakwitha has been featured in late 20th-century novels and at least one 21st-century, which have explored the role of religion and colonialism in the New World:\n\nNovelist Diane Glancy (who is of Cherokee descent) was the first Native American writer to make Tekakwitha the main focus of an historical novel, \"The Reason for Crows\".\n\nIn an episode of French/Spanish animation series \"Clémentine\", the time-travelling main character Clémentine Dumant meets and befriends a younger version of Tekakwitha. She is portrayed as a shy teenage girl who is isolated and harassed by her peers after her conversion, but with Clémentine's help she earns their love and respect.\n\nBrooklyn-based Irish singer / songwriter Niall Connolly includes a song titled \"Lily of the Mohwaks\" on his 2013 album, \"Sound\". The song was inspired when he noticed an image of Kateri Tekakwitha on the door of St. Patrick's Cathedral, New York City.\n\nAfter Tekakwitha’s beatification in 1980, Paula E. Holmes in the late 1990s interviewed several different elderly Native American women about their childhood and hearing stories from their ancestors about Tekakwitha. One woman retold her time in a church where her grandmother told her that she prayed to Kateri for her, one semiretired nurse from New Mexico told Holmes about her aunt’s fondness of Kateri and how people would travel to New York to learn about her, and the nurse’s cousin told Holmes how her mother kept pictures of Kateri wrapped in fur and gave her a Tekakwitha medal. Holmes then stated that Kateri is \"as part of their Indian familiar and familial heritage.\"\n\nFather Clarence Walworth was one of the biggest pushers for Tekakwitha’s veneration. Because Walworth was so interested in Native American history, he researched Tekakwitha’s life and promoted her cause with his niece, Ellen. He then personally financed a thousand dollar granite monument in Kahnawake out of a gesture for international co-operation for her veneration.\n\nIn traditional fashion, numerous churches, schools and other Catholic institutions have been named for her, particularly since her canonization, including several Catholic elementary schools. Among these are St. Kateri Tekakwitha Catholic Elementary School in Kitchener, Kateri Tekakwitha Catholic Elementary School in Markham, St. Kateri Tekakwitha Catholic Elementary School in Hamilton, Saint Kateri Tekakwitha Catholic School in Orléans (Ottawa), and St. Kateri Tekakwitha School in Calgary, Alberta. Saint Kateri is the patron saint of John Cabot Catholic Secondary School in Mississauga.\n\nThe St. Kateri Tekakwitha School in Schenectady, New York was so named after her canonization. The St. Kateri Tekakwitha Parish, also located in Schenectady, was founded by merging the Our Lady of Fatima and St. Helen's churches in late 2012. A cluster parish was formed in Irondequoit, New York in 2010, taking the name Blessed Kateri Parish; later changing the name to Saint Kateri after her canonization. Kateri Residence, an Archdiocese of New York Catholic Charities nursing home in Manhattan, New York, is named for her.\n\nThe St. Kateri Tekakwitha Church in Valencia, California, holds a statue of her in the church. A statue of Saint Kateri Tekakwitha is placed at the steps of Holy Cross School at San Buenaventura Mission in southern California to honor the local Native American Chumash people, who helped build and sustain the Mission until the 1840s.\n\nTekakwitha is featured at Camp Ondessonk, a Catholic youth camp in southern Illinois. One of the cabin units is named after her. She is one of the namesakes of Camp Ondessonk's honor society, The Lodges of Ondessonk and Tekakwitha.\n\nEach year since 1939 the Tekakwitha Conference meets annually in order to support Native Americans’ conversions into and practices of Catholicism. At each conference, people gather in Kateri Circles, named in honor of her, in order to pray together and help each other become better Catholics. In 1991, the Conference reported 130 registered Kateri Circles.\n\nThe chapel of Welsh Family Hall at the University of Notre Dame built in 1997, is dedicated to Kateri Tekakwitha.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30737068", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30737068", "title": "Lakshmi Kumara Thathachariar", "text": "Lakshmi Kumara Thathachariar\n\nLakshmi Kumara Thathachariar or Sri Lakshmi Kumara Thatha Desikan (Sanskrit): श्री लक्ष्मी कुमार ताता देसिकन, Tamil: ஸ்ரீ லக்ஷ்மி குமார தாத தேசிகன்) (1456–1543) was a prominent Vaishnava saint and Guru in the Hindu tradition in Vaishnavism, India. Sri Lakshmi Kumara Thatha Desikan was a devotee of Lord Narayana specially Lord Rama and the Vaishnava Guru /acharya Swamy Vedanta Desika. He has the title Kottikannikadhana Thirumalai Edur Immadi Royadurgam Sri Lakshmi Kumara Thatha Desikan. He was the Royal Preceptor \"Raja Guru\" of king of Vijayanagar Empire Krishnadevaraya. His full name was Lakshmi Kumara Tathacharya. He was a great enemy of Tenali Rama and also a great saint. He was the \"Manager-General\" of the Divya Desam Temples including Sri Rangam, Kanchipuram, Tirumala, Melkote, Srivilliputtur, He is recorded as one of the greatest Aacharyas in the lineage of Sri Ramanuja's Vaishnavism.\n\nSri Thatha Desika was the adopted son of the famous Sri Pancha Madha Bandhana Thatha Desikan (his paternal uncle), a learned scholar and most revered aacharya of the Indian Philosophy and Sri Ramanujacharya's \"Visishtadvaita\".\n\nTaking the roots from Sri Satamarshana maharishi in Krutha Yuga Satya Yuga, the first among the yugas, Sri Thatha Desikan hails from a very glorious acharya lineage with the hereditary relations from various Aacharyas of Sri Vaishnava philosophy like Sriman Natha Munigal (Nathamuni), Sri Alavandhar, Sri Thirumalai Nambigal (who is believed to be called by the Lord of Seven Hills, Tirumala Tirupati Sri Balaji as \"Thathah:\" the Sanskrit equivalent of the English Term \"Holy Father\"). Sri Thirumalai Nambigal being the maternal uncle of Sri Ramanujacharya (Ramanuja) and the one who corrected Sri Govinda Bhattar alias 'Embar' the brother of Sri Ramanuja and a venerated saint of Sri Vaishnava Sampradhaya. Sri Thirukurugai Piran Pillan being the son of Sri Thirumalai Nambigal was appointed as the 'Sri Ubhaya Vedhanta Sri Bhashya Simhasanathipathi' - literally meaning the 'Divine Incharge' of the 'Sri Bhashya' (Sri Bhasya) the treatise to Sri Veda Vyasa's \"Brahma Sutras\" written by Sri Ramanujacharya and the \"Nalayira Dhivya Prabandham\" (especially 'Thiruvaimozhi' of Sri Nammalvar) the collection of 4000 songs sung by Tamil Saints known as Alwars.\n\nSri Thatha Desikan traces his origin from the most celebrated aacharya purusha Swamy Nikamantha Maha Desikan (Vedanta Desika) of Thoopul. Sri Thatha Desikan comes in the chronology of 22nd Generation of Sriman Nathamunigal (Nathamuni). He is believed to have got all the divine knowledge fed to him by the Divine Mother Goddess Sri Lakshmi Devi known as Sri Komalavalli, the consort of the presiding deity of Sri Sarangapani Temple in Kumbakonam in Tamil Nadu (India). Sri Thatha Desikan was the Raja Guru of the Venkatapathi Rayas I and II (known as Sriranga Raya) and was the chief minister of Sri Vijayanagar Empire. Prior to Thatha Desikan, His father Sri Sundara Thatha Desikan and Paternal Uncle Sri Pancha Madha Bandhana Thatha Desikan were adorning the courts of the Vijayanagar Kingdom as Raja Gurus or Divine Preceptors.\n\nSri Thatha Desikan during his regime brought a large army from Vijayanagar and drove away the unrighteous people from the Divya Desams of Sri Rangam, Kanchipuram, Srivilliputtur, Thirumalirum Cholai. Kumbakonam and many other places and restored the worships and conducts as directed by the greatest philosopher Sri Ramanujacharya and Swamy Sri Nikamantha Maha Desikan of Thoopul. Sri Thatha Deiskan appointed His Heirs in these places and gave a lot of grants to these Temple, to take special care on the Temple Proceedings. Sri Thatha Desikan gold plated the 'Moolavar Vimanam' (the pyramidal structure over the sanctum sanctorum) of Tirumala Tirupati, Kanchipuram and renovated the parts of Srirangam Temple constructions. He constructed the 100 pillared mandapa in Kanchipuram Sri Varadharaja Perumal Temple. He also renovated various Shrines of the said temple. Around 15 stone Tablets with inscriptions stating the same is available in the Alavandhar Thirumuttram (The Circum circle pathway around the Sri Varadharaja Perumal Temple Enclosure). A lot of historical evidence and archaeological proofs are available in various temples like Kanchipuram Temples, Tirumala Sri Venkateswara Temple, Sri Rangam, Srivilliputtur, and in many other places.\n\nHe guided the Kings of Vijayanagar Empire in following the righteous path known as Dharma. He is the only person to hold the twin positions of Raja Guru and Chief Minister of the state. The contribution of Sri Thatha Desikan in protecting the cultural values of South India and Sri Vaishnavism could be traced from a lot of references available in the forts of the Kingdom like Chandragiri. During his lifetime Sri Thatha Desikan travelled all around ancient Bharath for the purpose of educating people from various cadres of the society to follow the codes of Righteousness. He is been referred by lot of philosophers and saints owing to various sampradhayas or walks of Hindu religion. The great contemporary writer and philosopher Sri Appaya Dikshitar of Adayapalam has referred and praised Thatha Desikan in many of his works. He considered Thatha Desikan to be the Divine Incarnation.\n\nSri Thatha Desikan constructed a temple in Ayyankar Kulam, a small village near Kanchipuram known to be as \"Thatha Samuthram – Sri Lakshmi Saras Sri Maruthi /Sri Sanjeevirayar Temple\" for Sri Hanuman with a temple tank measuring more than 150 acres known as \"Thatha Samudhram\" literally meaning \"Sri Thatha Ocean\". The presiding deity of Sri Varadharaja Perumal visits this temple once in a year during the festival named \"Natabhavi Uthsavam\".\n\nLegends say that, Sri Thatha Desikan was a very pious devotee of Lord Sri Rama. Once Sri Thatha Desikan was travelling with all the wealth he got as a reward for his knowledge and as a tribute from various kings .He was intended to offer them to the Lord of Kanchipuram Sri Varadharaja Perumal. On reaching the outskirts of Kanchi, it was late night. So Thatha Desikan decided to stay with his disciples at the place for a while and decided to continue the travel once the sun rises. So all the treasure was kept near a tree and Thatha Desikan along with his disciples fell asleep. On knowing the wealth assimilated there, a group of thieves came there to loot them. So without any one's knowledge they came there and started bundling all the resources available there without any one's notice. By then, immediately a crew of monkeys led by a senior monkey came there and started beating the thieves very badly and drove them away from the treasures. The monkeys started guarding the treasure. Thus the treasure, which was meant to be offered to the GOD, got saved from getting plundered. As a miracle, Thatha Desikan had a dream in which he was shown the entire happenings and was blessed with the Darshan of Sri Hanuman. Thatha Desikan realised that it was none other than lord Hanuman a sincere servant of Lord Rama came there in his rescue. So Thatha Desikan was very much moved in Joy and tears started flowing down from his eyes. He immediately woke up and saw the thieves who have fallen unconscious being beaten heavily and the treasure being guarded by a crew of monkeys. Thatha Desikan also found his treasures saved. He was overwhelmed in devotion and decided to spend a part of the saved sum in building a magnificent temple for Lord Hanuman along with Sri Rama, Sri Sita, Sri Lakshmana. He also built a very big lake near the constructed temple and named it as 'Sri Lakshmi saras', that means the 'Pond of Goddess Lakshmi' who happened to be his mother of Divine Origin as the presiding Goddess of Kumbakonam by name Sri Komalavalli of Sri Sarangapani Temple fed him the Mother's milk and the presiding Goddess of Kanchipuram Sri Perundevi saved him throughout his life and was Herself a teacher of various Arts and Philosophies to him.\n\nBut later this lake was fondly called as \"Sri Thatha Samudhram\" in remembrance of this great Aacharya, as the Lake was appearing majestically like an ocean running for about 150 acres in area. Even during the present days, this Temple stands to be the Biggest Temple dedicated to this form of Lord Hanuman known as \"Sri Sanjeeviraya\" built during the ancient times of India. Sri Thatha Desikan also composed a famous literary work called \"Srimath Hanumath Vimsathi\" in praise of this Lord Hanuman, which are inscribed on stone tablets and are kept in the \"prakarams\" (the circle enclosure surrounding the main temple) by the then King of Vijayanagar Empire. Later the entire surroundings of this Temple came to be known as \"Sri Thathayyangar Kulam\" in the remembrance of Sri Thatha Desikan. This small hamlet of village with a very great historic importance is situated near to the present day Kanchipuram.\n\nSri Thatha Desikan has composed a lot of literary works including \"Sri Hanumath Vimsadhi\", \"Nikama Parimalam\", \"Sri Panduranga Mahathmiyam\", \"Sri Desika Prabandha Eedu\" and many more in the languages of Sanskrit and Tamil. These works are preserved in the libraries of Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams. The work \"Sri Thatha Vimsathi\" composed on the greatness of Sri Thatha Desikan clearly records various acts and deeds of this great scholar.\n\nSri Thatha Desikan has also composed various literary works to substantiate various philosophical truths of Sri Vaishnavism. His devoutness towards Sri Ramanujacharya and Swamy Vedanta Desikan could be very much traced from his works. He was a master of Sanskrit, Tamil, Prakrut Languages. The \"Sri Desika Prabandha Eedu\" serves as a testimony for his mastering the Tamil Literary skills. This work stands as a guide to the Tamil works of Swamy Vedanta Desikan.\n\nSri Thatha Desikan followed the Vadakalai sect of modern Vaishnavism and his thoughts were deeply rooted his works. He was a sincere follower of Swamy Sri Nikamantha Maha Desikan of Thoopul (Vedanta Desika) and followed his foot steps. He had Sri Rama with Sita, Lakshmana, Bharata, Satrugana and Hanuman as his personal deity and carried them in a golden box to all the places where ever he travelled. Sri Thatha Desikan was considered as an embodiment of Truth, Devotion, Supreme Knowledge and Literature. He was revered as an \"Aacharya Mahanubhava\" which is the \"Greatest Teacher and Philosopher\". Sri Thatha Desikan abided to the codes of Vaishnavism and its philosophical values as drafted by the Lineage of Teachers starting from Nammalvar to Swamy Vedanta Desika. Even though Sri Vaishnavism has a broader perspective of having existence from time immemorial, the accountability in this Kali yoga as marked by the Hindu calendar starts with the teachings of Alwars who are the saint-people who are believed to be sent by Sriman Narayana the Supreme God-Head, to relieve the people of this materialistic world from the glitches of Maya, an equivalent term of 'illusion'. Sri Thatha Desikan was praised and celebrated not only for the great knowledge level of him, but also for being so simple and entirely proud-less, as a person who has done a variety of contributions to the religion of Hinduism – Sri Vaishnavism and to the Sampradhaya (the way) shown by Vedanta Desika.\n\nSri Ramanujacharya's 'Vedaartha Sangraha', works of Swamy Vedanta Desika are capsuled in the works of Sri Thatha Desikan. The Key concepts of Sri Ramanujacharya's Vishistadvaita like: Tattva, Hita and Purushartha; The Upaya and Upeya; Chit, Achit, Eswara; the truth behind the concept of Karya, Karana; are well explained in most of the works of Sri Thatha Desikan like \"Nikama Parimalam, Lakshmi Niyudam, Panchagranthi Nipaharam, Sapthagranthi Nipaharam, and Satvika Brahmana Vidya Vilasa\". It is praise worthy to note that, Sri Thatha Desikan wrote the explanatory text of \"Sri Desika Prabandha Eedu\" which falls under the title of \"Eedu\" works, that holds as a guide to the works of Swamy Vedanta Desika. Similar Eedu work is \"Thiru Aarayira Padi\" (the holy 6000 verses) written by an Aacharya 'Swamy Thirukurugai Piran Pillan' as a guide for the work of Nammalvar known as 'Thiruvaimozhi' in Nalayira Divya Prabandham. It is praise worthy to note that Sri Thatha Desikan comes in the paternal family lineage of 'Swamy Thirukurugai Piran Pillan' who is again considered to be the 'Abhimana Puthran' (equivalent term for adopted son) of Sri Ramanujacharya.\n\nSri Thatha Desikan is revered as,\n\n\"Thasmai Dharma Swaroopaya, Nirmalodhara Keerthaye |\n\"Sri Lakshmi kumara Thathayarya Desikaya Namon Namah: ||\"\n\nThis literally means \"we salute the great Aacharya \"Sri Thatha Desikan\", who is the embodiment of the Righteousness Dharma and innumerable valor\".\n\nSri Thatha Desika was the royal preceptor of the Vijayanagar Empire and was revered with high respects and fame. He was the 'Raja Guru' – 'The Royal Teacher' and the 'Chief Minister' of Krishnadevaraya . The Kings patronised the contributions of this legend and made Him the \"Manager-General\" known as \"Sri Karya Thurantharar\" of all the Divya Desam Temples existing in their Empire, which are the 108 temples offered to Hindu God-Head Vishnu in India, with the acharya having the base at Kanchipuram. Also Swamy Thatha Desikan inherited the office of \"Sri Karyam\" ( known colloquially as \"Dharmakartha-ship\") of Kanchipuram, Sriperumbudur and Kumbakonam temples from his ancestors also he governed various other temples Vishu Temples of India along with his heir apparents and the other aacharyas belonging to this clan of \"Thathacharya\".\n\nAlso the family of \"Thirumalai Nambi\", maternal uncle of Sri Ramanujacharya) of Tirumala possessing the title of \"Thathachariars\" are the adherent followers of Sri Ramanuja and Swamy Vedanta Desika and served as the Raja Gurus (Divine Preceptors) of various Dynasties which ruled India during various periods. Sri Thatha Desikan's Paternal lineage were the Raja Gurus for the rulers of Vijayanagar Empire including the dynasties of Saluva, Tuluva and Sangama. Even the empires of Hoysala and Chalukya shows references to these great men with the title of \"Thathacharya\" being the important aacharya clan of their respective empires, who belong to the gothra of Sadamarshana Maharishi. After the fall of Vijayanagar Empire the descendants of Swamy Thatha Desikan continued to be the Royal Preceptors for the Nayaka rulers who were appointed as the Governors of various Vijayanagar Empire territories including Vilankuppam, Kanchipuram, Trichy, Madurai, Chandragiri and parts of modern days Tamil Nadu, Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh.\n\nThe Love of this great Aacharya for the poor and suffering was well known by the excellent generous contributions that He made to bring them up in their lives. He established a lot of \"Anna Chatrams\" – \"Feeding Halls\" and established the so-called \"Desanthri Kattalai\" the \"Order to serve Travelers\" in various Temples to feed the devotees visiting those temples daily. He sponsored the wedding of a lot of needy couples and hence adorned with the Honorary Title \"Koti Kannikadhana\" that reveres Him to have helped almost ten million couples or literally couples in a large crowd known as \"Koshti\"! He was praised as \"Ubhaya Vedantha Chariyar\", meaning \"The master of both Sanskrit Sacred Texts – Vedas and Upanishads and Tamil works of Alwars known as Prabandhas\"\n\nEven today the Descendants of Sri Koti Kannikadhana Sri Lakshmi Kumara Thatha Desikan are living in various Divya Desams as the teachers of the Philosophical values and rich Indian Culture and are continuing many righteous deeds that are bound for them.\n\nThe Thathacharyas are the custodians of the Kanchipuram Perarulalan Kovil popularly known as Varadaraja Perumal temple. They are the Pradhana Acharya Purushas in the protocol to receive and deliver the temple honors. In retrospection Tirumalai Nambi's son Tirukkurukai Piran Pillan was ordained by Ramanuja himself as the first and foremost among the 74 Peetadhipathis to propagate Visishtadwaita philosophy after him. Pillan was also chosen by Ramanuja as the competent person to write the commentary on \"Tiruvaimozhi\". \"The annotation of Tiruvaimozhi thus brought out by Pillan under the behest of Ramanuja is called the famous 'Araiyarpadi' the first gloss in Manipravala, an elegant mixture of Tamil and Sanskrit words, on the Divya Prabhandam. After Pillan, Tirumalai Srinivasacharya Thathachariar in the fifth generation of Thathacharyas was installed by Vedanta Desika as the Sri Kariyam of the Devaraja Swamy Kovil (Sri Varadharaja Perumal Temple of Kanchipuram). Since then the office of Sri Kariyam is institutionalized in the diligence and devotion of the Thathacharyas to the Varadaraja Perumal temple in Kanchipuram. Lakshmi Kumara Thatha Desikan inherited this mantle from his ancestors and made epoch making contributions to the temple annals. He was the Sri Kariya Durandhara – a phrase connoting absolute dedication and authority – of the temple affairs. Simultaneously he was also the Raja Guru of the Vijayanagar king Venkatapathi Deva Maharaj. In Ayengarkulam, a village named after him near Kanchipuram, he built a tank and temple to Sri Rama and Hanuman.\n\nIn the city of modern Kanchipuram , the Sri Varadharaja Perumal Temple's Sri Vedantha Desikan Sannidhi houses a six-feet idol of Sri Lakshmikumara Thatha Desikan along with His consort Sri Kamala Ammangar paying their homage to their aacharya Sri Swamy Nikamantha Maha Desikan. Whenever the presiding deity of Sri Varadharaja Perumal starts for procession, the respect to these Aacharyas – Swamy Sri Nikamantha Maha Desikan and Swamy Sri Lakshmi Kumara Thatha Desikan are offered the \"Satari\" – the religious crown shaped structure with the imprints of the Lotus Feet of the Lord Vishnu in it, with the \"Theertham\" – sacred water and the Garland \"Malai\" \"Mariyadhai\" – \"Respect\". Sri Varadharaja Perumal Temple also houses the processional deity of Sri Lakshmi Kumara Thathadesikan.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2530681", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2530681", "title": "Lingbao School", "text": "Lingbao School\n\nThe Lingbao School (Simplified Chinese: 灵宝派; Traditional Chinese: 靈寶派; pinyin: Líng Bǎo Pài), also known as the School of the Sacred Jewel or the School of Numinous Treasure, was an important Daoist school that emerged in China in between the Jin Dynasty and the Liu Song Dynasty in the early fifth century CE. It lasted for about two hundred years until it was absorbed into the Shangqing and Zhengyi currents during the Tang Dynasty. The Lingbao School is a synthesis of religious ideas based on Shangqing texts, the rituals of the Celestial Masters, and Buddhist practices.\n\nThe Lingbao School borrowed many concepts from Buddhism, including the concept of reincarnation, and also some cosmological elements. Although reincarnation was an important concept in the Lingbao School, the earlier Daoist belief in attaining immortality remained. The school's pantheon is similar to Shangqing and Celestial Master Daoism, with one of its most important gods being the deified form of Laozi. Other gods also existed, some of whom were in charge of preparing spirits for reincarnation. Lingbao ritual was initially in individual practice, but later went through a transformation that put more emphasis on collective rites. The most important scripture in the Lingbao School is known as the \"Five Talismans\" (\"Wufujing\"), which was compiled by Ge Chaofu and based on Ge Hong's earlier alchemical works.\n\nAlthough Lingbao no longer exists as a distinct movement, it has left influences on all subsequent branches of Taoism. The \"\"yinyang\" masters\" popular in contemporary northern China are defined as Zhengyi Taoist priests following the Lingbao scriptural tradition.\n\nThe Lingbao School began in around 400 CE when the Lingbao scriptures were revealed to Ge Chaofu, the grandnephew of Ge Hong. Ge Chaofu claimed that the scriptures came to him in a line of transmission going back to Ge Hong's great-uncle, Ge Xuan (164-244). Ge Chaofu transmitted the scriptures to two of his disciples, and the scriptures quickly gained immense popularity. In 471, Lu Xiujing (406-477) compiled a catalogue of all the Lingbao texts, and also was responsible for reorganizing and standardizing Lingbao ritual. This organization of texts and ritual provided a solid foundation on which the Lingbao School prospered in the subsequent centuries. During the Tang Dynasty, the influence of the Lingbao School declined and another school of Daoism, the Shangqing School, became prominent. Borrowing many Lingbao practices, it was well accepted by the aristocracy and established an influence in court.\n\nSome early Lingbao scriptures borrowed so many Buddhist terminological, stylistic and conceptual elements that Zürcher describes them as \"Buddho-Taoist hybrids\".\n\nMany Lingbao beliefs are borrowed from Buddhism. The names of the many different deities and heavens were often given titles based on phonetic transcriptions of Sanskrit. Many Sanskrit terms were borrowed phonetically, but given completely different meanings. One significant concept borrowed from Buddhism was that of reincarnation.\n\nBoth Buddhism and the Lingbao School share the idea of the Five Paths of Rebirth (Gati). People were reborn into earth prisons, as a hungry ghost, as an animal, as a man, or as a celestial being. After death, the body would be alchemically refined in the Palace of Supreme Darkness located in the north, and the Southern Palace in the south. The transmutation of the body consisted of two steps; the \"yin\" components of the person were refined in the Palace of Supreme Darkness, followed by the \"yang\" components in the Southern Palace. The Lingbao concept of rebirth is a Chinese adaptation of Buddhism, mixing traditional Chinese concepts with newly arrived Buddhist ideas.\n\nLingbao cosmology also borrows heavily from Buddhism. Unlike previous Daoist cosmological systems which were divided into four to nine regions, Lingbao cosmology supposed that there were ten regions, an idea borrowed from Buddhism. In addition to the cosmological regions, there were 32 heavens divided into four sectors, each with eight heavens that were placed horizontally on the periphery of the celestial disc. Each of the four sectors was ruled by an emperor and populated by denizens of an earlier cosmic age (\"kalpa\"). Like Buddhism, the heavens were divided into the \"three worlds\" of desire, form, and formlessness. Lingbao cosmology deviated from Buddhist beliefs by proposing that the heavens rotated around a huge mountain known as the Jade Capital, which was the residence of the Celestial Worthy, the Daoist version of the Buddha, and the primordial deity.\n\nCertain traditional Daoist ideas were retained in Lingbao cosmology, such as the idea that the world originated from a type of primordial \"qi\" known as \"yuanqi\", and then was divided into heaven and earth. Furthermore, the \"yuanqi\" is subdivided into three types of \"qi\" that correspond to three deities: the lords of the Celestial Treasure, of the Sacred Treasure and of the Divine Treasure. These three deities later introduced the teachings of the \"Dongzhen\" (Perfect Grotto), the \"Dongxuan\" (Mysterious Grotto), and of the \"Dongshen\" (Divine Grotto). These three teachings form the basis for the later classification of texts in the Daozang.\n\nApocalyptic notions that appeared in Shangqing Daoism were first developed fully by the Lingbao School. Lingbao cosmology supposed that time was divided into cosmic cycles, which correlated with the Five Phases. At the end of a cosmic era, the god of the colour associated with that era would descend onto earth and reveal a teaching that would save a fixed number of people from death. There were two types of cosmic eras, short ones that were characterized by an excess of \"yin\" energy, and long ones that were characterized by an excess of \"yang\" energy. At the end of a short cosmic era, the moon was prophesied to produce a flood that would erode the mountains, renew the \"qi\" of the universe, and change the rankings of the members of the celestial bureaucracy. At the end of a long cosmic era, evil creatures were unleashed, heaven and earth were turned upside down, and metals and stones melted together. The people who followed the correct teaching revealed by the god of the colour would be gathered up by the Queen Mother of the West and transported to a \"land of bliss\" that would not be affected by the apocalypse.\n\nIn addition to borrowing deities from the Celestial Masters and the Shangqing School, the Lingbao School also developed its own gods. The supreme god of Lingbao Daoists is known as the Yuanshi Tianzun or the Celestial Worthy of the Original Beginning, who played a similar role to the deified Laozi in the Celestial Masters. According to the scriptures, this god went through a series of \"kalpa\" cycles that were given names similar to dynastic names, until emerging at the beginning of the \"Kaihuang\" period. The next most important god was Laojun, the deified form of Laozi, who was the Celestial Worthy's chief disciple. Below these two main gods in the celestial hierarchy were those deities associated with the Southern Palace, where spirits went after death to prepare for rebirth. The head of this group of gods was known as the Perfected of the Southern Extremities. Beneath him was the Director of the Equerry, who was in charge of the life records of the spirits, and Lord Han, who controlled Fengdu, the city of the dead. Below these principal gods in the Lingbao hierarchy were other deities such as the Five Old Men, the Dragon Kings, and the Demon Kings.\n\nDeities were present not only in the heavens, but also in the human body itself. They were responsible for maintaining the body's five viscera, guarding the registers of life, and regulating the souls. There were five internal deities that were particularly important in Lingbao Daoism. The Great Unity lived in the head, along with Lordling and White Prime, who could descend into the liver and lungs. The Director of Destinies lived in the heart and sexual organs, and finally, the Peach Child lived in the lower dantian. Normally these deities resided in the heavens, but they could be activated by scriptural recitations to descend into the body.\n\nDespite a belief in reincarnation, the Lingbao School maintained the traditional Daoist idea that certain techniques could allow an adherent to achieve immortality. One technique was to ingest the essence of the sun and the moon. Practitioners would expose themselves to the celestial bodies at certain times of the month. Closing their eyes, they would visualize that the essences would solidify and enter their bodies. Once in the body, the sun's essence was matched to the heart and visualized as red, while the moon's was matched with the kidneys and seen as black. Besides interior meditation practices, immortality could be achieved through the ingestion of potions or talismans.\n\nEarly Lingbao ritual was mostly done on an individual basis, either in a meditation chamber, or the courtyard of a house. Early practitioners were not professional priests, but rather 'students of the Dao'. Later on, as the Lingbao movement developed religious institutions and an established clergy, ritual practice became more of a communal rite.\n\nLingbao ritual shares a great deal with ritual in other Daoist traditions. Like other traditions, Lingbao rituals had a theatrical quality that involved accompanying music, dances, and chants. Lingbao Daoism also shared the multidimensional aspect of Daoist ritual, meaning that it was carried on at several different levels simultaneously. For example, while a ritual was being performed, the priest would repeat the ritual within himself through interior meditation.\n\nThere are three categories of ritual in Lingbao Daoism. The first is known as the heavenly Golden Register of Rituals, and is carried out to prevent natural disasters. During the Tang Dynasty, this ritual was carried out in honour of the imperial family, but later it could be performed by anyone. The earthly Yellow Register ritual was performed to ensure the dead was at rest. The final type of ritual, which has not survived, was the human Jade Register, which was performed to ensure the salvation of mankind. Of the rituals that have survived, the Golden Register has assumed the role of the Jade register, ensuring salvation and preventing bad weather.\n\nLingbao scriptures arose as a direct result of the success of earlier Shangqing texts. Lingbao scriptures are all based on a text known as the \"Text of the Five Talismans\" (\"Wufujing\"), which was compiled by Ge Chaofu between 397 and 402 and borrowed from the work of Ge Hong, his great uncle. Being the most ancient Lingbao text, the \"Five Talismans\" provided the framework of the remainder of the Lingbao canon, which was based on the five directions. Because all Lingbao texts descended from the \"Five Talismans\", it was believed that they had been revealed to Ge Xuan, presumably the original owner of the \"Five Talismans\". Ge Xuan is purported to have transmitted the Lingbao texts first to his disciple Zheng Siyuan, who then transmitted it to Ge's grandnephew Ge Hong (284-364), who is well known for his alchemical innovations. The claim that the Lingbao texts derive from Ge Xuan, however, was likely a way of legitimizing them through the exaggeration of their antiquity. In reality, they were likely assembled by Ge Chaofu himself. Within a few years of the texts' dissemination, they had become extremely popular.\n\nThe canon itself is a mix of previous Daoist traditions, combining features from the Shangqing School and the Celestial Masters, along with other ancient texts and even some Buddhist ideas. The two most important texts of the canon besides the \"Wufujing\" are the \"Red Book of Five Writings\" (\"Chi shu wupian\") and the \"Scripture of Upper Chapters on Limitless Salvation\" (\"Wuliang Duren Shangpin\"). According to Lu Xiujing, who edited the Lingbao Canon, there were a total of 34 texts in the canon, of which three have been lost.\n\nWhile the Lingbao school did not survive as a distinct entity, its ritual apparatus did, and it forms the basis for present-day Daoist ritual practice. In addition, many of the innovations introduced by the Lingbao School have survived to the present, including its division of the Daozang into three sections corresponding to different teachings, with the \"Dongzhen\" corresponding to the Shangqing School, the \"Dongxuan\" to the Lingbao School, and the \"Dongshen\" to the Sanhuang teaching. The integration of Buddhism within Lingbao practices and beliefs ensured that Buddhist elements would remain an important aspect of later Daoism, and also aided in integrating Buddhism into all levels of society in China.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57760770", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57760770", "title": "List of British Sikhs", "text": "List of British Sikhs\n\nList of British Sikhs is a list of prominent Sikhs from the United Kingdom.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17635464", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17635464", "title": "List of atheist activists and educators", "text": "List of atheist activists and educators\n\nThere have been many atheists who have been active in advocacy or education. This is a list of atheist activists and educators. Living persons in this list are people whose atheism is relevant to their notable activities or public life, and who have publicly identified themselves as atheists.\n\n\nPeople who are/were activists or educators in other areas (social reform, feminism etc), but who were also atheists.\n\n"}
{"id": "54038315", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54038315", "title": "Living Biblically", "text": "Living Biblically\n\nLiving Biblically is an American sitcom television series created by Patrick Walsh and produced by Johnny Galecki, with co-executive producers Andrew Haas, Spencer Medof, and director Andy Ackerman. The series was based on A. J. Jacobs' best-selling book, \"The Year of Living Biblically\". The Warner Bros. Television-produced series began airing on CBS on February 26, 2018. The running time was 30 minutes per episode and included a laugh track. On May 11, 2018, CBS canceled the series after one season. The series aired the remaining episodes from July 7 until July 21, 2018.\n\nThe series chronicles a married film critic and expectant father's decision to improve his life by living according to the Bible, literally, after the death of his best friend.\n\n\n\nOn May 12, 2017, the series was ordered to series. On November 21, 2017, it was announced that the series, now titled \"Living Biblcally\", would premiere in the spring of 2018 and air on Mondays at 9:30 P.M. The series premiered February 26, 2018, on CBS and was given a thirteen episode order. On April 19, 2018, CBS pulled the series from the schedule after eight low-rated episodes, leaving five episodes unaired, and announced that the series will remain in production for all thirteen episodes and would return to the schedule at a later date. On May 11, 2018, the series decided not to renew for another season. On June 7, 2018 it was announced that the show would return to the schedule on July 7, 2018 and the remaining seven episodes would air over a three-week period. The final episode aired on July 21, 2018.\n\nOn Rotten Tomatoes, the series holds an approval rating of 19% based on 16 reviews, with an average rating of 4.26/10. The site's critical consensus reads, \"\"Living Biblically\" commits the cardinal TV sin of wasting the outline of a refreshingly unusual premise on broad, hammy acting and stock sitcom laughs.\" On Metacritic, the series has a weighted average score of 47 out of 100, based on 8 critics, indicating \"mixed or average reviews\".\n\n"}
{"id": "11953988", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11953988", "title": "Martyrs of the Spanish Civil War", "text": "Martyrs of the Spanish Civil War\n\nMartyrs of the Spanish Civil War is the name given by the Catholic Church to the people who were killed by Republicans during the war because of their faith. More than 6,800 clergy and religious were killed in this \"Red Terror\". As of November 2018, 1,891 Spanish martyrs have been beatified; 11 of them being Canonized. For some two thousand additional martyrs, the beatification process is underway.\n\nDuring the Spanish Civil War of 1936–1939, and especially in the early months of the conflict, individual clergymen were executed while entire religious communities were persecuted, leading to a death toll of 13 bishops, 4,172 diocesan priests and seminarians, 2,364 monks and friars and 283 nuns, for a total of 6,832 clerical victims, as part of what is referred to as Spain's Red Terror.\n\nPope John Paul II beatified a total of about 500 martyrs in the years 1987, 1989, 1990, 1992, 1993, 1995, 1997 and 2001. Some 233 executed clergy were beatified by John Paul II on 11 March 2001. In 1999 he also canonized a Christian Brother and the nine Martyrs of Turon, the first group of Spanish Civil War martyrs to reach sainthood. Regarding the selection of Candidates, Archbishop \"Edward Novack\" from the \"Congregation of Saints\" explained in an interview with \"L'Osservatore Romano\": \"Ideologies such as Nazism or Communism serve as a context of martyrdom, but in the foreground the person stands out with his conduct, and, case by case, it is important that the people among whom the person lived should affirm and recognize his fame as a martyr and then pray to him, obtaining graces. It is not so much ideologies that concern us, as the sense of faith of the People of God, who judge the person's behavior.\"\n\nBenedict XVI beatified 498 more Spanish martyrs in October 2007, in the largest beatification ceremony in the history of the Catholic Church. In this group of people, the Vatican has not included \"all\" Spanish martyrs, nor any of the 16 priests who were executed by the nationalist side in the first years of the war. This decision has caused numerous criticisms from surviving family members and several political organisations in Spain.\n\nThe beatification recognized the extraordinary fate and often brutal death of the persons involved. Some have criticized the beatifications as dishonoring non-clergy who were also killed in the war, and as being an attempt to draw attention away from the church's support of Franco (some quarters of the Church called the Nationalist cause a \"crusade\"). Within Spain, the Civil War still raises high emotions. The act of beatification has also coincided in time with the debate on the Law of Historical Memory (about the treatment of the victims of the war and its aftermath) promoted by the Spanish Government.\n\nResponding to the criticism, the Vatican has described the October 2007 beatifications as relating to personal virtues and holiness, not ideology. They are not about \"resentment but ... reconciliation\". The Spanish government has supported the beatifications, sending Foreign Minister Miguel Ángel Moratinos to attend the ceremony.\nAmong those present was Juan Andrés Torres Mora, a relative of one of the martyrs and the Spanish MP who had debated the memory law for PSOE\n\nThe October 2007 beatifications have brought the number of martyred persons beatified by the Church to 977, eleven of whom have been canonized as saints. Because of the extent of the persecution, many more cases could be proposed; as many as 10,000 according to Catholic Church sources. The process for beatification has already been initiated for about 2,000 people.\n\nAt 28 October 2007 beatifications, Pope Benedict underscored the call to sanctity for all Christians, saying it was \"realistic possibility for the entire Christian people\". He also noted, \"This martyrdom in ordinary life is an important witness in today's secularized society.\" \n\nPope Francis beatified 522 martyrs on 13 October 2013, at Tarragona, Spain; among them was Eugenio Sanz-Orozco Mortera from Manila, Philippines, who became the first Filipino martyr of the Spanish Civil War. He also approved additional beatifications for Spanish martyrs that took place for a priest on 1 November 2014 as well as two sets of group martyrs on both 5 September 2015 and 3 October 2015. The pope also approved the beatification of 26 Capuchin martyrs, which took place on 21 November 2015. The beatification for Valentín Palencia Marquina and his four companions took place on 23 April 2016 in Burgos. The beatification for Genaro Fueyo Castañon and his three companions was celebrated in Oviedo on 8 October 2016 and the beatification of José Antón Gómez and 3 companions was celebrated in Madrid on 29 October 2016. The 114 Almerian martyrs were beatified on 25 March 2017, and Antonio Arribas Hortigüela and his six companions were beatified on 6 May 2017 in Girona. The beatification of Mateo Casals Mas & 108 companions were beatified in Barcelona on 21 October 2017 and Vicenç Queralt Lloret & 20 companions as well as José Maria Fernández Sánchez & 38 companions were beatified in Madrid on 11 November 2017. The beatification of Teodoro Illera del Olmo & 15 Companions will be held on 10 November 2018.\n\nThe martyrs of Turon were a group of eight De La Salle Brothers, and the Passionist priest who was with them, who were executed by striking miners at Turon in October 1934. Although this was nearly two years before the outbreak of the civil war, their deaths were part of the same violence and anti-clerical feeling of that period in Spain's history, and are regarded as martyrs of the Spanish Civil War. They were beatified by Pope John Paul II on 29 April 1990, and were canonized by him on 21 November 1999.\n\nSaint Innocencio of Mary Immaculate, born Emanuele Canoura Arnau, was a member of the Passionist Congregation and martyr of the Spanish Civil War, born on 10 March 1887 in Santa Cecelia del Valle de Oro in Galicia, Spain; He died at Turon, with his eight companions, on 9 October 1934. He was beatified on 29 April 1990 and was canonized by Pope John Paul II on 21 November 1999.\n\nJaime Hilario Barbal, born Manuel Barbal Cosán, was raised in a pious and hardworking family near the Pyrenees mountains. Entered the seminary at age 12, but when his hearing began to fail in his teens, he was sent home. Joined the Brothers of the Christian Schools at age 19, entering the novitiate on 24 February 1917 at Irun, Spain, taking the name Jaime Hilario. Exceptional teacher and catechist, he believed strongly in the value of universal education, especially for the poor. However, his hearing problems grew worse, and in the early 1930s, he was forced to retire from teaching, and began work in the garden at the La Salle house at San Jose, Tarragona, Spain. Imprisoned in July 1936 at Mollerosa, Spain when the Spanish Civil War broke out and religious were swept from the street. Transferred to Tarragona in December, then confined on a prison ship with some other religious. Convicted on 15 January 1937 of being a Christian Brother. Two rounds of volley fire from a firing squad did not kill him, possibly because some of soldiers intentionally shot wide; their commander then murdered Jaime with five shots at close range. First of the 97 La Salle Brothers killed in Catalonia, Spain during the Spanish Civil War to be recognized as a martyr. He was beatified on 29 April 1990, and was canonized by Pope John Paul II on 21 November 1999.\n\nHe was a priest, the founder of the Teresian Association and a Martyr of the Spanish civil war. He was beatified on 10 October 1993 and canonized on 4 May 2003.\n\nThey were a group of priests and brothers of the Passionist Congregation killed by Republican forces during the Spanish Civil War. They were beatified by Pope John Paul II on 1 October 1989. Eyewitnesses reported that all of the Passionists had forgiven their murderers before they died. A witness to the murder of Father Niceforo reported that after being shot the priest turned his eyes to heaven then turned and smiled at his murderers. At this point one of them, now more infuriated than ever, shouted: \n\nWhat, are you still smiling? \n\nWith that he shot him at point blank range.\n\nEugenio Sanz-Orozco Mortera (Jose Maria of Manila) was born on 5 September 1880 in Manila, Philippines. He was a Franciscan Capuchin priest. He died a martyr on 17 August 1936, in Madrid, Spain, during the Spanish civil war. He is venerated in the Catholic Church, which celebrates his feast on 6 November. He was beatified on 13 October 2013.\n\nBartolomé Blanco Márquez was born in Cordoba, Spain in 1914. He was arrested as a Catholic leader—he was the secretary of Catholic Action and a delegate to the Catholic Syndicates—on 18 August 1936. He was executed on 2 October 1936, at age 21, while he cried out, \"Long live Christ the King!\" Born in Pozoblanco 25 November 1914, Bartolome was orphaned as a child, and raised by family with whom he worked. He was an excellent student, studying under the tutelage of the Salesians.\n\nShe was a religious, the member of the same congregation and also a Martyr of the Spanish civil war. She was beatified on 10 October 1993.\n\nPedro was educated by Jesuits. Trained as an architect, graduating in 1915. he worked on schools, churches and houses for religious. He was ordained priest in the diocese of Vitoria, Spain in 1924. He was executed on 29 August 1936. He was beatified on 1 November 2014.\n\n(*) means they are Canonized.\n\nDuring the nineteenth and the twentieth centuries, the Catholic Church in the Spain supported and was strongly supported by and associated with the Spanish monarchy. The Second Spanish Republic saw an alternation of leftist and conservative coalition governments between 1931 and 1936. Amidst the disorder caused by the military coup of July 1936, many supporters of the Republican government pointed their weapons against individuals they considered local reactionaries, including priests and nuns.\n\nA paradoxic case for foreign Catholics was that of the Basque Nationalist Party, at the time a Catholic party from the Basque areas, who after some hesitation, supported the Republican government in exchange for an autonomous government in the Basque Country. Although, virtually every other group on the Republican side was involved in the anticlerical persecution, the Basques did not play a part. The Vatican diplomacy tried to orient them to the National side, explicitly supported by Cardinal Isidro Goma y Tomas, but the BNP feared the centralism of the Nationals. Some Catalan nationalist also found themselves in the same situation, such as members of de Unió Democràtica de Catalunya party whose most relevant leader, Manuel Carrasco i Formiguera was killed by the \"Nationalists\" in Burgos in 1938.\n\nA number of controversies have arisen around the beatification of some of these clerics. Some objectors oppose the notion of these priests being killed for mere religious hatred and, while not excusing their brutal murders, putting them in the context of the historical moment. Others question the appropriateness of beatification for some individuals who have less than saintly backgrounds. A third objection is the perceived partiality of the Church, where victims of the left have been proposed for beatification, while victims of the right have been ignored.\n\nOf the first objection, one of the most notable cases has centered on Cruz Laplana y Laguna, Bishop of Cuenca, a well-known supporter of the monarchist regime. After the proclamation of the Second Republic he carried out a number of right-wing political campaigns throughout the province, and had established close contacts with military officials such as General Joaquín Fanjul, a supporter of the Nationalist rebellion. Laplana y Laguna was described by his biographer as \"supreme advisor\" to the general, as well as being closely involved with the Falange. In 1936 he personally endorsed Falangista leader José Antonio Primo de Rivera as a candidate in the 1936 local elections. When the Nationalist uprising in Cuenca failed, Laplana y Lagun was arrested by Republican militiamen for treason. He was tried for conspiring against the Republican government and executed on 8 August.\n\nAnother is Fulgencio Martínez, a priest in the village of La Paca in Murcia, who was shot after the uprising, who was reported by many locals to be closely allied to the local landowners. Over several days before the uprising, Father Fulgencio met with these landowners in the village casino—the hub of social life for the local elites in rural Spain—to organize support for the rebellion. He offered guns and money to anyone who would join an improvised militia. On 18 July, the day of the uprising, Father Fulgencio was among the persons who went through the village streets on lorries, rallying support for the uprising with shouts of \"Viva el Ejército!\" (\"Long live the Army\") and \"Viva General Queipo de Llano!\"\n\nPublic statements by some of these clerics have also been widely publicised as a form of criticism against their beatification. Rigoberto Domenech, Archbishop of Zaragoza, declared publicly on 11 August 1936 that the military uprising was to be supported, and its defensive actions approved, because \"it is not done in the service of anarchy, but in the benefit of order, fatherland, and religion\" in response to the Red Terror. Another statement was that given in November 1938 by Leopoldo Eijo Garay, Bishop of Madrid-Alcalá, regarding a possible truce between Republican and rebel forces: \"To tolerate democratic liberalism... would be to betray the martyrs.\"\n\nOf the second, the controversy surrounding the beatification of Augustinian Friar Gabino Olaso Zabala, listed as a companion of Avelino Rodriguez Alonso, concerns his previous life. Friar Zabala was martyred during the Civil War and was beatified. Attention was called to the fact that Fr. Olaso had been a missionary in the Philippines during the Katipunan rebellion against Spanish rule, and had been accused of torturing Friar Mariano Dacanay, an alleged rebel sympathizer. However this objection ignores the Church proclamation that even sinners can repent and turn into saints, such as in the case of Augustine of Hippo.. It also misunderstands the nature of a cause for martyrdom, where the primary factor is the person's death due to religious hatred of the faith, rather than the saintliness of his previous life.\n\nThe third objection refers to the Church's attitude to victims of Nationalist repression. Regarding the attitude of the Vatican, Manuel Montero, lecturer of the University of the Basque Country commented on 6 May 2007:\n\nWhile much of Republican Spain was anti-clerical in sentiment, the Basque region, which also supported the Republic, was not; the clergy of the region stood against the Nationalist coup, and suffered accordingly. At least 16 Basque nationalist priests (among them the arch-priest of Mondragón) were killed by the Nationalists, and hundreds more were imprisoned or deported. This included several priests who tried to halt the killings. To date, the Vatican has failed to consider these clergy as martyrs of the Spanish Civil War.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7631946", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7631946", "title": "Matthew Makil", "text": "Matthew Makil\n\nMathew Makil, Servant of God (27 March 1851 – 26 January 1914) was the second Vicar Apostolic and the first indigenous Vicar Apostolic of the Vicariate of Changanassery, which is the Syro-Malabar Catholic Archdiocese of Changanassery today. Mar Mathew Makil was also the first Vicar Apostolic of the Vicariate of Kottayam, which is the Arch Diocese of Kottayam today. He was born in Manjoor, Travancore now a part of Kerala. He was the third son of Thomman and Anna Makil Puthenpurayil. In 1896, he became the Vicar Apostolic of the Vicariate of Changanassery, and in 1911, when a new Vicariate Apostolic of Kottayam was constituted exclusively for the Knanaya Catholics, Mar Mathew Makil was transferred to Kottayam as Vicar Apostolic. He died at Kottayam on 26 Jan 1914 and on 26 Jan 2009 Declared as Servant of God.\n\n"}
{"id": "613607", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=613607", "title": "Mischling", "text": "Mischling\n\nIn German, the word has the general denotation of hybrid, mongrel, or half-breed. Outside its use in official Nazi terminology, the term \"Mischlingskinder\" (\"mixed children\") was later used to refer to war babies born to non-white soldiers and German mothers in the aftermath of World War II.\n\nAs defined by the Nuremberg Laws in 1935, a Jew (\"Istjude\" or \"Volljude\" in Nazi terminology) was a person – regardless of religious affiliation or self-identification – who had at least three grandparents who had been enrolled with a Jewish congregation. A person with two Jewish grandparents was also legally \"Jewish\" (so-called \"Geltungsjude\", roughly speaking, in or \"to be deemed/reckoned as a Jew\") if that person met any of these conditions:\nA person who did not belong to any of these categorical conditions but had two Jewish grandparents was classified as a Jewish \"Mischling\" of the first degree. A person with only one Jewish grandparent was classified as a \"Mischling\" of the second degree. See Mischling Test.\n\nSoon after passage of the Enabling Act of 1933, the Nazi government promulgated several antisemitic statutes, including the Law for the Restoration of the Professional Civil Service on 7 April 1933. Using this law, the regime aimed to dismiss—along with all politically-suspect persons such as social democrats, socialists, communists and many liberals of all religions—all \"non-Aryans\" from all government positions in society, including public educators, and those practicing medicine in state hospitals.\n\nAs a result, the term \"non-Aryan\" had to be defined in a way compatible with Nazi ideology. Under the \"First Racial Definition\" supplementary decree of 11 April, issued to clarify portions of the act passed four days prior, a \"non-Aryan\" (\"e.g.\" a Jew) was defined as one who had at least one Jewish parent or grandparent. Later, German citizens with only one Jewish grandparent were defined by the Nuremberg Laws as \"Mischling\" of the second degree. Their employment restrictions remained, but they were permitted to marry non-Jewish and non-\"Mischling\" Germans, and were not imprisoned. This distinction was not applied to non-German citizens.\n\nAccording to the philosophy of Nazi antisemitism, Jewry was considered a group of people bound by close, genetic (blood) ties who formed an ethnic unit that one could neither join nor secede from. Early 20th-century books on Nordicism such as Madison Grant's \"The Passing of the Great Race\", had a profound effect on Hitler's antisemitism. He was convinced that the Nordic Race/Culture constituted a superior branch of humanity, and viewed International Jewry as a parasitic and inferior race, determined to corrupt and exterminate both Nordic peoples and their culture through \"Rassenschande\" (\"racial pollution\") and cultural corruption.\n\nAnother important factor in Nazi antisemitism was the growing presence of Marxism and Bolshevism in Europe, particularly in Germany. Hitler declared that Marxism was constructed by International Jewry, with the aim of Bolshevising the earth, ultimately allowing Jewry to dominate/exterminate the Aryan race. With this in mind, Hitler viewed Russia as a nation of \"Untermenschen\" (\"subhumans\" or 'Inferiors\") dominated by their Judaic masters, which posed the gravest threat to both Germany and Europe as a whole.\n\nThe Nazis defined Jewishness as partly genetic, but did not always use formal genetic tests or physiognomic (facial) features to determine one's status (although the Nazis talked a lot about physiognomy as a racial characteristic). In practice, records concerning the religious affiliation(s) of one's grandparents were often the deciding factor (mostly christening records and membership registers of Jewish congregations).\n\nThe Schutzstaffel (SS) used a more stringent standard: In order to join, a candidate had to prove (presumably through baptismal records) that all direct ancestors born since 1750 were not Jewish, or they would have to apply for a German Blood Certificate instead. Later, when the stresses of the war made it implausible to confirm the ancestry of officer candidates, the extended proof of ancestry regulation was diminished to the standard laws requiring certified evidence of non-Judaism within two generations.\n\nIn the 19th century, many Jewish Germans converted to Christianity; most of them becoming Protestants rather than Catholics. Two-thirds of the German population were Protestant until 1938, when the Anschluss annexation of Austria to Germany added six million Catholics. The addition of 3.25 million Catholic Czechoslovaks of German ethnicity (Sudeten Germans) increased the percentage of Roman Catholics in Greater Germany to 41% (approximately 32.5 million vs. 45.5 million Protestants or 57%) in a 1939 population estimated at 79 million. One percent of the population was Jewish.\n\nGerman converts from Judaism typically adopted whichever Christian denomination was most dominant in their community. Therefore, about 80% of the Gentile Germans persecuted as Jews according to the Nuremberg Laws were affiliated with one of the 28 regionally-delineated Protestant church bodies. In 1933 approximately 77% of German Gentiles with Jewish ancestry were Protestant, the percentage dropped to 66% in the 1939 census, after the annexations of 1938 (due in particular to the acquisition of Vienna and Prague, with their relatively large and well-established Catholic populations of Jewish descent). Converts to Christianity and their descendants had often married Christians with no recent Jewish ancestry.\n\nAs a result, by the time the Nazis came to power, many Protestants and Roman Catholics in Germany had some traceable Jewish ancestry (usually traced back by the Nazi authorities for two generations), so that the majority of 1st- or 2nd-degree \"Mischlinge\" were Protestant, yet many were Catholics. A considerable number of German Gentiles with Jewish ancestry were irreligionists.\n\nLutherans with Jewish ancestry were largely in northwestern and northern Germany, Evangelical Protestants of Jewish descent in Central Germany (Berlin and its southwestern environs) and the country's east. Catholics with Jewish ancestry lived mostly in Western and Southern Germany, Austria and what is now the Czech Republic.\n\n Requests for reclassification (e.g., Jew to \"Mischling\" of 1st degree, \"Mischling\" of 1st degree to 2nd degree, etc. ) or Aryanization (see German Blood Certificate) were personally reviewed by Adolf Hitler. A reclassification approved by the Nazi party chancery and Hitler was considered an act of grace (\"Gnadenakt\"). Other de facto reclassifications, lacking any official document, were privileges accorded by high-ranking Nazis to certain artists and other experts by way of special protection.\n\nA second way of reclassification was by way of declaratory judgment in court. Usually the discriminated person took the action, questioning their descent from the Jewish-classified man until then regarded as their biological (grand)father. Paternity suits aiming for reclassification () appeared mostly with deceased, divorced, or illegitimate (grand)fathers. They usually sought to change the discriminated litigant's status from Jewish-classified to \"Mischling\" of first degree, or from \"Mischling\" of first degree to second degree. The numbers of such suits soared whenever the Nazi government imposed new discriminations and persecutions (such as the Nuremberg Laws 1935, Kristallnacht in 1938, and systematic deportations of Jewish Germans and Gentile Germans of Jewish descent to concentration camps, 1941).\n\nThe process was humiliating for the (grand)mothers who had to declare in court that they had committed adultery. The petitions were successful in the majority of cases. The high success rate was a result of several factors. First, some lawyers specialised in such procedures, prepared them professionally, and refused hopeless cases. There was no danger in the procedures because failure did not downgrade the classification of the litigant. Second, usually all the family members cooperated; including the sometimes still-living disputed (grand)father. Likely alternative fathers were often named, who either appeared themselves in court confirming their likely fatherhood, or who were already dead but were known as good friends, neighbours, or subtenants of the (grand)mother. Third, the obligatory and humiliating body examinations of those under suspicion were skewed by stereotypical Jewish perceptions. Expert witnesses would search for allegedly Jewish facial features, as conceived and understood by anti-Semites. If the doubted (grand)father was already dead, emigrated, or deported (as after 1941), the examination searched for these supposedly \"Jewish\" features in the physiognomy of the descendant (child). Since anti-Semitic clichés on Jewish outward appearance were so stereotyped, the average litigant did not show features clearly indicating their Jewish descent, so they often documented ambiguous results as medical evidence. Fourth, the judges tended to believe the accounts of the (grand)mothers, alternative fathers, doubted fathers, and other witnesses who had endured such public humiliation. They were not recorded for earlier perjuring, and judges would declare the prior paternity annulled, ensuring the status improvement for the litigant.\n\nThe effective assimilation of Jews and Gentiles of Jewish descent into their Gentile (and Christian) surroundings made matters much more complicated than the Nazis had anticipated; widespread corruption, and lack of ethical moorings among many Nazi leaders, frequently gave way to bribery, extortion, and other subterfuges concerning documentation of who was, or was not, a Jew.\nAccording to the 1939 Reich census, there were about 72,000 \"Mischlinge\" of the 1st degree, ~39,000 of the 2nd degree, and potentially tens of thousands at higher degrees, which went unrecorded as those people were considered Aryan by the Reich.\n\nAccording to historian Bryan Mark Rigg, an Israeli Army and United States Marine Corps veteran, up to 160,000 soldiers who were one-quarter, one-half, and even fully Jewish served in the German armed forces during World War II. This included several generals, admirals, and at least one field marshal, Erhard Milch.\n\nOn 20 July 1933, initiated by the actor Gustav Friedrich, Christian Germans of Jewish descent founded a self-help organisation, initially named \"Reich Federation of Christian-German Citizens of non-Aryan or not of purely Aryan descent\" (). The federation first counted only 4,500 members. In October 1934 the name was shortened to \"Reich association of non-Aryan Christians\" (). In 1935, members of the federation elected the known literary historian their new president. Under his direction the federation's journal was improved and the number of members rose to 80,000 by 1936. In September 1936, the federation was renamed the more confident \"St Paul's Covenant Union of non-Aryan Christians\" () after the famous Jewish convert to Christianity Paul the Apostle.\n\nIn January 1937 the Nazi government forbade that organisation, allowing a new successor organisation named the \"1937 Association of Provisional Reich Citizens of not purely German-blooded Descent\" (). This name cited the insecure legal status of \"Mischlinge\", who had been assigned the revocable status of preliminary Reich's citizens by the Nuremberg Laws, while Jewish-classified Germans had become second-class state citizens (\"Staatsbürger\") by these laws. The 1937 Association was prohibited from accepting state citizens as members—like Spiero—with three or four grandparents, who had been enrolled in a Jewish congregation. Thus that new association had lost its most prominent leaders and faded, having become an organisation solely for \"Mischlinge\". The \"1937 Association\" was compulsorily dissolved in 1939.\n\nPastor Heinrich Grüber and some enthusiasts started a new effort in 1936 to found an organisation to help Protestants of Jewish descent (\"Mischlinge\" and their (grand)parents, of whom at least one was classified as non-Aryan), but went completely neglected by the then official Protestant church bodies in Germany (see Prussian Union of churches#Protestants of Jewish descent).\n\nAfter the war some \"Mischlinge\" founded the still-existing \"Notgemeinschaft der durch die Nürnberger Gesetze Betroffenen\" (Emergency association of the aggrieved by the Nuremberg Laws).\n\nSome examples of Mischlinge:\n\nThose who were considered \"Mischlinge\" were generally restricted in their options of partners and marriage. \"Mischlinge\" of first degree generally needed permission to marry, and usually only to other \"Mischlinge\" or Jewish-classified persons; however, a marriage to a Jewish-classified person would re-categorize the \"Mischling\" as \"Geltungsjude\" (Full Jew). After 1942, marriage permissions were generally not granted any more—arguably due to the war—without further notice. \"Mischlinge\" of second degree did not need permission to marry a spouse classified as Aryan; however, marriage with \"Mischlinge\" of any degree was unwelcome. The reasoning behind this was that a \"mischling\" marrying an Aryan would produce a child with an acceptably low amount of Jewish heritage, but a \"mischling\" marrying a \"mischling\" would just produce another \"mischling\".\n\n1st-degree \"Mischlinge\", more so than those of 2nd-degree, had restricted access to higher education and were generally forbidden from attending such schools in 1942. As for vocations, most jobs in the public sphere—such as journalism, teaching, performing arts, government positions, politics etc.—were inaccessible to \"Mischlinge\". Exceptions were granted for some prominent persons and those who acquired the necessary German blood certificates.\n\nBeginning in the autumn of 1944, between 10,000 and 20,000 half-Jews (\"Mischlinge\") and persons related to Jews by a so-called mixed marriage were recruited into special units of the Organisation Todt.\n\nWhile the classifications of \"Mischling\" also applied in occupied Western and Central Europe, and were well-documented for the Netherlands and Protectorate Bohemia and Moravia, this was not the case in Eastern Europe. Persons who would have been deemed Jewish \"Mischlinge\", in the East were classified as Jews in German-annexed Poland (Danzig-West Prussia, Warthegau, etc.), German-occupied Poland (General Government), German-occupied parts of the Soviet Union, and the German-occupied Soviet-annexed Baltic/Eastern Polish territories. Consequently, an unknown number of Christians of recent Jewish background from Poland and other occupied territories, primarily Catholics or Eastern Orthodox in this case, were killed as \"Jewish\" in the Holocaust.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34293376", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34293376", "title": "Moon Embracing the Sun", "text": "Moon Embracing the Sun\n\nMoon Embracing the Sun (, also known as The Moon That Embraces the Sun or The Sun and the Moon) is a 2012 South Korean television drama series, starring Kim Soo-hyun, Han Ga-in, Jung Il-woo and Kim Min-seo. It aired on MBC from January 4 to March 15, 2012, on Wednesdays and Thursdays at 21:55 for 20 episodes.\n\nThe historical-fantasy drama is adapted from the novel of the same name written by Jung Eun-gwol. It tells of a secret, poignant love story between a fictional king of the Joseon Dynasty and a female shaman against the backdrop of a Korean traditional palace; and the conflicts and conspiracy of vying political powers.\n\nThe drama reached a peak rating of 35%. It won the Best Drama and Best Actor awards in the television category at the 48th Baeksang Arts Awards, and multiple awards at 2012 MBC Drama Awards, including Drama of the Year.\n\nAri, a young shaman of the Royal Star Mansion (Royal Astrology House), is awakened one night by a psychic impression of imminent danger to one of the king's sons, who was considered a potential rival for the throne. When she investigates, she witnesses his murder and is discovered by the perpetrators who gave chase. She manages to escape but is greatly injured in the process. The next day, after she receives help from the pregnant wife of the palace's Chief Scholar, Ari has a vision about the fate of the unborn child. In gratitude for the aid she received, Ari promises to watch over the child, even in death.\n\nLater that day, Ari is arrested, tortured, and thrown in jail. Her friend and fellow shaman, Jang Nok-yeong, visits her in secret. Ari tells Nok-yeong that she has foreseen the birth of a young woman who has a \"noble fate\" and who is connected to the royal house. Knowing that her death is near, Ari begs Nok-yeong to watch over this child in her stead. Nok-yeong makes a promise without even knowing who or where the child is. The next day, Ari is declared guilty of treason and tortured, refusing to lie about the murder, and is executed by a primitive form of dismemberment while receiving visions of the future once more.\n\nSeveral years pass and the aristocratic but modest and loving Heo family now includes two children: seventeen-year-old son Yeom and thirteen-year-old daughter, Yeon-woo (which means \"misty rain\"). Even at such a young age, Yeon-woo already exhibits wisdom beyond her years. One day, Yeon-woo accompanies her mother to the royal palace to attend Yeom's civil service examination congratulatory ceremony. During this visit, Yeon-woo wanders away from the ceremony after being distracted by a butterfly and has a chance encounter with Crown Prince Lee Hwon. Although there was brief misunderstanding about each other's identities, as a result of their chance encounter, Lee Hwon and Yeon-woo fall in love.\n\nMeanwhile, Yeom's outstanding scholarship caused him to be immediately engaged as a tutor for the Crown Prince. Yeon-woo, on the other hand, is chosen to be a companion for the prepubescent Princess Min-Hwa along with Bo-kyung, the ambitious and deceitful daughter of the palace's Prime Minister and maternal blood relative to the Queen Dowager. Jang Nok-yeong, now the Head Shaman, realizes that Yeon-Woo is the child whom Ari begged her to protect years ago. \n\nMin-hwa, the younger sister of Crown Prince Lee Hwon, is a young girl of mercurial moods who cries, whines, and screams when she does not get her way. Upon seeing her brother's handsome \"Teacher Heo\", Min-hwa becomes obsessed with him. When she discovers that Yeon-woo is Teacher Heo's sister she expresses her preference for Yeon-woo's company. Bo-kyung, who is all but ignored by the princess, feels slighted and jealous about the princess' favoritism. Min-hwa soon asks her father to allow her to marry Yeom. The king refuses, for reasons that are rooted in tradition, political strategy, and socio-cultural correctness. He explains to Min-hwa that the husband of a princess(Prince Consort) is not allowed to be involved in political matters and cannot have any governmental position. He also says that Yeom is an intelligent and morally upright person and that by allowing the princess to marry him, would ruin his political aspirations. Enraged and devastated, Min-hwa throws a terrible tantrum.\n\nSome time later, Yeon-woo is demonstrated to be the superior choice (over Bo-kyung and another young woman) to wed Lee Hwon and become the Crown Princess of Joseon. This decision upsets Prince Yang Myung, the Crown Prince's freewheeling but misunderstood half-brother, who has also met and fallen in love with Yeon-woo, as well as Bo-kyung and her corrupt father, Prime Minister Yoon.\n\nYeon-woo undertakes her training to become the Crown Princess; she seems to be a bit physically clumsy at first, but is also lovingly courted by Crown Prince Lee Hwon during the training period.\n\nBefore Lee Hwon and Yeon-woo can marry, the Queen Dowager secretly orders Nok-yeong to cast a curse on Yeon-woo to afflict her with a sickness that will lead to her death. The Queen Dowager wants to install her blood relative, Bo-kyung, as the Crown Princess instead. Nok-yeong breaks her promise to protect Yeon-woo, feeling that she has no choice but to obey the Queen Dowager. The Queen Dowager uses Princess Min-hwa as a conduit to intensify the effect of the shaman's spell, as it is known that a young virgin with strong desires and motivations lend a great deal of power to sorcery. The Queen Dowager promises Min-hwa that if she participates in the spell, Min-hwa can have what she wants: to marry Yeom. Min-hwa's selfish immaturity and obsession with Yeom lead her to participate willingly, though it is also clear that she was manipulated by the Queen Dowager.\n\nThe black magic is successful and Yeon-woo is diagnosed with an unidentifiable illness by the royal physicians. She is thus expelled from the palace, losing her title as Crown Princess. As she inches closer and closer to death, Nok-yeong secretly visits Yeon-woo's father and gives him a special potion, promising that it will bring a peaceful death for his daughter. He gives her the potion and she dies, as her death is the only way to release her from the spell. After her burial, Nok-yeong and a paid help hurriedly dig up the grave and retrieve Yeon-woo, knowing that she will soon awaken from the potion. Yeon-woo is deeply traumatized by dying and then waking up buried alive, losing all memories of her previous life. With assistance and support from a Taoist priest, Shaman Jang, Yeon-woo, and Seol (the Heo family's loyal former maidservant) go into hiding in a distant location.\n\nCrown Prince Lee Hwon is soon married to Bo-kyung. Lee Hwon flatly refuses to consummate the marriage with Bo-kyung; he repeatedly feigns illness in order to avoid physical intimacy and further tries to avoid any interactions at all with her. The only people Lee Hwon allows near him are the eunuch who serves him and the sword master Woon. Woon's ever-presence with the prince leads some in the palace to quietly question Lee Hwon's sexuality, not understanding that Lee Hwon's heart still belongs to a woman presumed dead. Bo-kyung becomes progressively more humiliated and bitter about the Crown Prince's obvious distaste for her. The king dies, and Crown Prince Lee Hwon becomes the King of Joseon. With the former king's death, the need for Lee Hwon to produce an heir to the throne becomes more and more urgent. For this reason, the people around Lee Hwon are willing to try anything to help him recover from his \"illness.\"\n\nEight years later, it is learned that the flow of the universe has shifted and the three \"exiles\" in hiding are sent back to the capital city. Yeon-woo has now become a shaman after being adopted as a \"spiritual daughter\" by Shaman Jang. Shaman Jang has sworn Seol to secrecy about Yeon-woo's true identity. Yeon-woo, now known as Shaman Wol (which means \"moon\") returns to the palace as a living talisman - a \"bad-luck-absorbing\" shaman — suggested by Shaman Jang as a way to cure the king's \"illness.\" The king awakens one night to find Shaman Wol sitting by his bedside, and her unmistakable resemblance to his true love, Yeon-woo, causes the young king to start questioning what really happened to Yeon-woo eight years ago and quietly launches a thorough investigation. Meanwhile, Yeon-woo must try to understand the strange memories that are coming back to her while simultaneously contending with Queen Bo-kyung, the Queen's Father (who is still the Prime Minister), and the Queen Dowager in order to claim her rightful place as the Queen of Joseon. Political intrigue continues to build and comes shockingly to a head as King Lee Hwon fights for his throne, fights for the woman he loves, and fights for his very life.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nBased on the novel by Jung Eun-gwol, the screenplay was written by Jin Soo-wan (writer of \"Capital Scandal\"); and directed by Kim Do-hoon (who previously directed \"Royal Family\") and Lee Seong-jun (who previously directed \"Gyebaek\").\n\nThis production marked Han Ga-in's first historical drama and return to television since \"Bad Guy\" in 2010. It is also Jung Il-woo's second historical drama following \"The Return of Iljimae\" in 2009.\n\nFilming began in November 2011 with child actors for the first six episodes, followed by the script reading session with their adult counterparts on December 25 at MBC Dream Center in Ilsan.\n\nIn February 2012, there were talks of an extension of four episodes to the 20-episode drama. The production company, Ten Entertainment later confirmed that there would be no extension and the series was to end on its original date of March 8, 2012. However it did not end till March 15, 2012, because director Kim Do-hoon joined the MBC strike leading to the last two episodes being delayed for a week, and replaced with two special episodes.\n\nThe shooting period spanned over the cold months in Korea, which added to the actors' difficulties as there were quite a number of outdoor scenes. The actors' breath can often be seen as they speak.\n\nMost of the royal palace scenes were filmed on location at MBC Dramia located at Cheoin-gu, Yongin-si in Gyeonggi Province, where other historical dramas such as \"Dong Yi\", \"Jumong\" and \"Queen Seondeok\" were also filmed. The House of Choi Champan was used as Yeon-woo's childhood home, and the Korean Folk Village was used for local markets, private residences of commoners, and night scenes.\n\n\n\nIt aired on GMA Network from August 13 to November 2, 2012, on weeknights at 5:45 PM PST. Each episode runs 45 minutes including commercial breaks. The entire series was dubbed in Filipino.\n\nIn March 2012, the drama's broadcast rights were sold to eight Asian countries, including Japan, Thailand, Hong Kong, Singapore, Taiwan, Malaysia, Indonesia, and the Philippines. At that time it set the record as the most profitable drama for MBC, which was later surpassed by \"Arang and the Magistrate\" in August 2012.\n\n\nA stage musical adaptation was performed at the Seoul Arts Center from July 6 to 31, 2013, with succeeding runs in 2014. Kim Da-hyun, Jeon Dong-seok and Cho Kyu-hyun alternated as Lee Hwon, and Jeon Mi-do, Ahn Shi-ha, Lina, Jung Jae-eun and Seohyun alternated as Yeon-woo.\n\n"}
{"id": "73186", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=73186", "title": "Numbers in Norse mythology", "text": "Numbers in Norse mythology\n\nThe numbers three and nine are significant numbers in Norse mythology and paganism. Both numbers (and multiplications thereof) appear throughout surviving attestations of Norse paganism, in both mythology and cultic practice.\n\nWhile the number three appears significant in many cultures, Norse mythology appears to put special emphasis on the number nine. Along with the number 27, both numbers also figure into the lunar Germanic calendar.\n\nThe number three occurs with great frequency in grouping individuals and artifacts:\n\nThe number nine is also a significant number:\n\n"}
{"id": "45079391", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45079391", "title": "Opele", "text": "Opele\n\nAn Opele (spelled Opuele or Ocuele in Latin America) is a divination chain used in traditional African and Afro-American religions, notably in Ifá and Yoruba tradition.\n\nA Babalawo (diviner) uses the Opele in order to communicate with the deity of wisdom/knowledge in the Yoruba tradition (Orunmila), who is able to identify the causes and solutions to personal and collective problems and restore harmony in the person's life through re-balancing of the person's destiny and/or Ori (personal deity). The Opele is the minor divination tool used by Babalawos for Ifa divination; it is believed to be an \"assistant\" or \"slave\" of Orunmila, who communicates Orunmila's desires to the Babalawo and from the Babalawo back to Orunmila. It is used for the majority of daily divination work. For divination regarding important ceremonial revelations or life-long information about a client or for very important decisions, Babalawos elect to use their Ikin seeds, which they consider to be the physical representation of Orunmila himself.\n"}
{"id": "18498844", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18498844", "title": "Otin", "text": "Otin\n\nOtines refer to the female Muslim religious scholars in Central Asia. They were regarded as the guardian of the Islamic faith in the era of Soviet Union.\nOtines are recognised as leaders in the local community. Their position has a high status, somewhat similar to a mullah's, and certain otines are officially recognized by their country's Muslim board. Otines also serve as teachers at religious schools for girls.\n\n"}
{"id": "9510009", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9510009", "title": "Our Lady of Bechouat", "text": "Our Lady of Bechouat\n\nThe Sanctuary of Our Lady of Bechouat (French: \"Sanctuaire de Notre-Dame de Bechouat\"), also spelled Beshouat or Beshwat, is a Marian shrine in the village of Bechouat in the Beqaa Valley of Lebanon.\n\nIn 1741, a Byzantine wooden icon of the Virgin Mary was discovered in one of the deep caves. A church was built above the cave, and since then, it has become a place of pilgrimage.\n\nDivine miracles have been reported and attributed to Our Lady of Bechouat. Thousands of worshippers have visited the sanctuary where they march from the village of Bechouat to the old church where the blue and white statue of the Virgin Mary stands. The statue, a replica of the one at Our Lady of Pontmain in France, was erected a century ago. Some worshippers spend the nights humbly praying or in meditation at the church door.\n\nOne of the miracles attributed to Our Lady of Bechouat happened to a Lebanese man, Tony Sukkar, 37, who resided in New York. Sukkar suffered from a chronic disease, which paralyzed his upper body completely. Upon a visit to his native Lebanon, Mr. Sukkar visited the old church where he prayed to be healed. Soon after, he was healed and able to move his upper body. Sukkar constructed a statue of the Virgin Mary in his home town of Deir el Ahmar in honor of Our Lady of Bechouat.\n\nBoth Lebanese and foreigners, Christian and Muslim worshipers have experienced divine miracles at Our Lady of Bechouat. One happened to a young child of Muslim parents from Jordan. Mohammed Naef Al-Awwad Al-Hawadi was ten years old when he accompanied his parents on a pilgrimage to the old church. The child saw the Virgin Mary's statue blink. Worshippers who spent the night at the church said they also saw the eyes, hands and rosary of the Virgin Mary's statue move. In 1871, a similar occurrence had been reported at Our Lady of Pontmain in France.\n"}
{"id": "44211297", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44211297", "title": "Psilocybe medullosa", "text": "Psilocybe medullosa\n\nPsilocybe medullosa is a species of psychoactive mushroom. It was originally described in 1898 as \"Naucoria medullosa\" by Italian mycologist Giacomo Bresadola. Czech mycologist Jan Borovička transferred it to \"Psilocybe\" in 2007. A widespread but rather rare species, it is found in Europe, where it grows as a saprobe on woody debris and detritus. Chemical analysis has been used to confirm the presence of the psychedelic compounds psilocin and psilocybin in the fruit bodies but probably at low levels. \"Psilocybe silvatica\" is its American sister species; it differs by subtle changes in molecular markers (LSU, ITS rDNA, and others).\n\n"}
{"id": "2290752", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2290752", "title": "Religion in Spain", "text": "Religion in Spain\n\nCatholic Christianity is the largest religion in Spain, but practical secularization is strong. Only 3% of Spaniards consider religion as one of their three most important values, even lower than the 5% European average. The Spanish Constitution of 1978 abolished Catholicism as the official state religion, while recognizing the role it plays in Spanish society. As a result, there is no official religion and religious freedom is protected.\n\nAccording to the Spanish Center for Sociological Research, 68.2% of Spaniards self-identify as Catholic Christians, 2.5% as followers of other faiths (including Islam, Protestant Christianity, Buddhism etc.), and 26.9% identify as atheists or non-believers . Most Spaniards do not participate regularly in religious worship. This same study shows that of the Spaniards who identify themselves as religious, 61.0% barely ever attend mass, 16.0% attend mass a few times a year, 7.0% few times per month, 13.3% almost every Sunday, and 1.9% multiple times per week.\n\nAlthough a majority of Spaniards are Catholics, most, especially those of the younger generations, ignore the Church's moral doctrines on issues such as pre-marital sex, sexual orientation, marriage or contraception. The total number of parish priests shrank from 24,300 in 1975 to 18,500 in 2018, with an average age of 65.5 years. By contrast, some expressions of popular religiosity still thrive, often linked to local festivals.\n\nWhile Roman Catholicism is still the largest religion in Spain, most Spaniards—and especially the younger—choose to ignore the Catholic teachings in morals, politics or sexuality, and do not attend Mass regularly. Irreligiosity, including Agnosticism and Atheism, enjoys social prestige in line with the general Western European secularization.\n\nCulture wars in Spain are far more related to politics than religion, and the huge unpopularity of typically religion-related issues like creationism prevent them from being used in such conflicts. Revivalist efforts by the Catholic Church and other creeds have not had any significant success out of their previous sphere of influence. According to the Eurobarometer 83 (2015), only 3% of Spaniards consider religion as one of their three most important values, just like in 2008 and even lower than the 5% European average. And according to the 2005 Eurobarometer Poll:\n\n\nEvidence of the secular nature of contemporary Spain can be seen in the widespread support for the legalization of same-sex marriage in Spain — over 70% of Spaniards support gay marriage according to a 2004 study by the Centre for Sociological Research. Indeed, in June 2005 a bill was passed by 187 votes to 147 to allow gay marriage, making Spain the third country in the European Union to allow same-sex couples to marry. This vote was split along conservative-liberal lines, with Spanish Socialist Workers' Party (PSOE) and other left-leaning parties supporting the measure and the center-to-right People's Party (PP) against it. However, when the Popular Party came into power, the law was not revoked or modified. Changes to the divorce laws to make the process quicker and to eliminate the need for a guilty party have also been popular. Abortion, contraception and emergency contraception are legal and readily available on par with Western European standards.\n\nIrreligion in Spain is a phenomenon that exists at least since the 17th century. Atheism, agnosticism and freethinking became relatively popular (although the majority of the society was still very religious) in the late 19th and early 20th centuries. During the Spanish civil war irreligious people were repressed by the Francoist side, while religion was largely abolished among the republicans. During the Francoist dictatorship period (1939-1975) irreligion was not tolerated, following the national-catholic ideology of the regime. Irreligious people could not be public workers or express their thoughts openly. After the Spanish democratic transition (1975-1982), restrictions on irreligion were lifted. In the last decades religious practice has fallen dramatically and atheism and agnosticism have grown in popularity, with over 12 million people (26.4% of the population ) with no religion.\nHowever, some expressions of popular religiosity still thrive, often linked to Christian festivals and local patron saints. World famous examples include the Holy Week in Seville, the Romería de El Rocío in Huelva or the Mystery Play of Elche, while the Sanfermines in Pamplona and the Falles of Valencia have mostly lost their original religious nature. The continuing success of these festivals is the result of a mix of religious, cultural, social and economic factors including sincere devotion, local or family traditions, non-religious fiesta and partying, perceived beauty, cultural significance, territorial identity, meeting friends and relatives, increased sales and a massive influx of tourists to the largest ones. The Pilgrimage to Santiago de Compostela is not so popular among Spaniards but it attracts many visitors too. Most if not all cities and towns celebrate a patron saint's festival or similar, no matter how small or known, which often includes processions, Mass and the like but whose actual religious following is variable and sometimes merely nominal.\n\nAnother trend among Spanish believers is syncretism, often defined as \"religión a la carta\". In \"religion à la carte\", people mix popular Roman Catholic beliefs and traditions with their own worldview and/or esoteric, self-help, New Age or philosophical borrowings they like, resulting in an unique personal 'soft' spirituality without any possible church. These people typically self-define themselves as Catholics, but they only attend church for christenings, funerals or weddings and are not actual followers. Unbelievers are, by definition, not syncretic or otherwise.\n\nThe recent waves of immigration, especially during and after the 1990s, have led to an increasing number of Muslims and Protestants. Nowadays, Islam is the second largest religion, but far behind Roman Catholicism and irreligion. A study made by \"Unión de comunidades islámicas de España\" showed that there were almost 1,900,000 inhabitants of Muslim background living in Spain in 2016 (4% of the total population.) The vast majority was composed of immigrants and descendants originating from Morocco and other African countries. Almost 780,000 of them had Spanish nationality.\n\nProtestantism in Spain has also been boosted by immigration, but remains a small testimonial force among native Spaniards (1%). Spain has been seen as a \"graveyard for foreign missionaries\" (meaning lack of success) among Evangelical Protestants. Protestant churches claim to have about 1,200,000 members.\n\nJews in Spain account for less than 1 percent of the population, mostly in Barcelona, Madrid and Murcia.\n\nBesides various varieties of Christianity, Islam, Judaism and the non-religious, Spain also has small groups of Hindus, Buddhists, Pagans, Taoists, and Bahá'ís.\n\nBuddhism didn't arrive in Spain until the late 20th century. According to an estimation, there are around 65,000 followers and an indeterminate number of sympathizers. However, some of its teachings, like reincarnation or karma, have partially syncretized with the cultural mainstream via New Age-style movements.\n\nPaganism is extremely minoritary in Spain. The most visible Pagan religions are forms of Germanic Heathenism (Spanish: \"Etenismo\"), Celtic paganism (and Druidry) and Wicca. Spanish Heathen groups include the Odinist Community of Spain — Ásatrú, which identifies as both Odinist and Ásatrú, the Asatru Lore Vanatru Assembly, the Gotland Forn Sed and Circulo Asatrú Tradición Hispánica of which four the first one is officially registered by the State; Celtist or Druidic groups include the Dun Ailline Druid Brotherhood (\"Hermandad Druida Dun Ailline\") and the Fintan Druidic Order, both registered. Amongst the Wiccan groups, two have been granted official registration: the Spanish Wiccan Association (\"Asociación Wicca España\") and the Celtiberian Wicca (\"Wicca Tradición Celtíbera\").\n\nGalicia is a center of Druidry (Galician: \"Druidaria\") due to its strong Celtic heritage; the Pan-Galician Druidic Order (Galician: \"Irmandade Druídica Galaica\") is specific to Galicia. In Basqueland, traditional Basque Gentility (Basque: \"Jentiltasuna\") and Sorginkery (Basque: \"Sorginkeria\"), Basque witchcraft, have been revived and have ties with Basque nationalism. \"Sorginkoba Elkartea\" is a Basque Neopagan organisation active in the Basque countries. \n\nAll these communities, orders and brotherhoods are barely more than small scattered groups.\n\nTaoism has a presence in Spain, especially in Catalonia. Among Spanish people, it was introduced by the Chinese master Tian Chengyang in the 2000s, leading to the foundation of the Catalan Taoist Association (\"Asociación de Taoísmo de Cataluña\") and the opening of the Temple of Purity and Silence (\"Templo de la Pureza y el Silencio\") in Barcelona, both in 2001. The association has planned to expand the Temple of Purity and Silence as a traditional Chinese Taoist templar complex, the first Taoist temple of this kind in Europe.\n\nA further was opened in 2014 by the Chinese community of Barcelona, led by Taoist priest Liu Zemin, a 21st-generation descendant of poet, soldier and prophet Liu Bo Wen (1311-1375). The temple, located in the district of Sant Martí and inaugurated with the presence of the People's Republic of China consul Qu Chengwu, enshrines 28 deities of the province of China where most of the Chinese in Barcelona come from.\n\nA 2008 poll by the \"Obradoiro de Socioloxia\" yielded the following results:\nA study carried out by the Center for Sociological Research (Centro de Investigaciones Sociológicas) in January 2015 discovered information relating to the rates of religious self-identification across Spain's various autonomous communities.\n\nSpain, it has been observed, is a nation-state born out of religious struggle mainly between Catholicism and Islam, but also against Judaism (and, to a lesser extent, Protestantism). The Reconquista against Al Andalus (ending in 1492), the establishment of the Spanish Inquisition (1478) and the expulsion of Jews (1492) were highly relevant in the union of Castile and Aragon under the \"Catholic Monarchs\" Isabel and Fernando (1492), followed by the persecution and eventual expulsion of the Moriscos in 1609. The Counter-Reformation (1563–1648) was especially strong in Spain and the Inquisition was not definitively abolished until 1834, thus keeping Islam, Judaism, Protestantism and parts of Enlightenment at bay for most of its history.\n\nBefore Christianity, there were multiple beliefs in the Iberian Peninsula including local Iberian, Celtiberian and Celtic religions, as well as the Greco-Roman religion.\nAccording to a medieval legend, the apostle James was the first to spread Christianity in the Roman Iberian Peninsula. There is no factual evidence of this but he later became the patron saint of Spaniards and Portuguese, originating the Way of St James. According to Romans 15, Paul the Apostle also intended to visit Hispania; tradition has that he did and founded the , but there is no evidence of this either. Other later myths include the Seven Apostolic Men.\n\nThere is some archaeological evidence of Christianity slowly penetrating the Peninsula from Rome and Roman Mauretania via major cities and ports, especially Tarragona, since the early 2nd century. The , with 2,050 discovered tombs, dates back to the second half of the 3rd century. Saints like Eulalia of Mérida or Barcelona and are believed to have been martyred during the Decian or Diocletianic Persecutions (3rd–early 4th centuries). Bishops like , or the influential Hosius of Corduba were active in the same period. \n\nEventually, Emperor Constantine (306–337) converted the entire Roman Empire and Christianity was thus established as the only official religion. This Christianity was already an early form of Catholicism.\n\nAs Rome declined, Germanic tribes invaded most of the lands of the former empire. In the years following 410 the Visigoths –- who had converted to Arian Christianity around 360 –- occupied what is now Spain and Portugal. The Visigothic Kingdom established its capital in Toledo; it reached its high point during the reign of Leovigild (568-586). Visigothic rule led to a brief expansion of Arianism in Spain, however the native population remained staunchly Catholic. In 587 Reccared, the Visigothic king at Toledo, converted to Catholicism and launched a movement to unify doctrine. The Council of Lerida in 546 constrained the clergy and extended the power of law over them under the blessings of Rome. The multiple Councils of Toledo definitively established what would be later known as the Catholic Church in Spain and contributed to define Catholicism elsewhere.\n\nBy the early 8th century, the Visigothic kingdom had fragmented and the fragments were in disarray, bankrupt and willing to accept external help to fight each other. In 711 an Arab raiding party led by Tariq ibn-Ziyad crossed the Strait of Gibraltar, then defeated the Visigothic king Roderic at the Battle of Guadalete. Tariq's commander, Musa bin Nusair then landed with substantial reinforcements. Taking advantage of the Visigoths' infighting, by 718 the Muslims dominated most of the peninsula, establishing Islamic rule until 1492. \n\nDuring this period the number of Muslims increased greatly through the migration of Arabs and Berbers, and the conversion of local Christians to Islam (known as Muladis or Muwalladun) with the latter forming the majority of the Islamic-ruled area by the end of the 10th century. Most Christians who remained adopted Arabic culture, and these Arabized Christians became known as Mozarabs. While under the status of \"dhimmis\" the Christian and Jewish subjects had to pay higher taxes than Muslims and could not hold positions of power over Muslims.\n\nThe era of Muslim rule before 1055 is often considered a \"Golden Age\" for the Jews as Jewish intellectual and spiritual life flourished in Spain. Only in the northern fringes of the peninsula did Christians remain under Christian rule. Here they established the great pilgrimage centre of Santiago de Compostela.\n\nIn the Middle Ages, Spain saw a slow Christian re-conquest of Muslim territories. In 1147, when the Almohads took control of Muslim Andalusian territories, they reversed the earlier tolerant attitude and treated Christians harshly. Faced with the choice of death, conversion, or emigration, many Jews and Christians emigrated. Christianity provided the cultural and religious cement that helped bind together those who rose up against the Moors and sought to drive them out. Christianity and the Catholic Church helped shape the re-establishment of European rule over Iberia.\n\nAfter centuries of the Reconquista, in which Christian Spaniards fought to drive out the Muslims, King Ferdinand II of Aragon and Queen Isabella I of Castile established the Spanish Inquisition in 1478 to complete the religious purification of the Iberian Peninsula from Muslim and Jewish thought and practice. Granada, the last Muslim redoubt, was eventually reconquered on January 2, 1492 —781 years after Tariq's first landing.\n\nIn the Early Modern Period, Spain saw itself as the bulwark of Catholicism and doctrinal purity. Spain carried Catholicism to the New World and to the Philippines, but the Spanish kings insisted on independence from papal \"interference\" - bishops in the Spanish domains were forbidden to report to the Pope except through the Spanish crown. In the 18th century Spanish rulers drew further from the papacy, banishing the Jesuits from their empire in 1767. The Spanish authorities abolished the Inquisition in the 1830s, but even after that, religious freedom was denied in practice, if not in theory.\n\nCatholicism became the state religion in 1851, when the Spanish government signed a Concordat with the Holy See that committed Madrid to pay the salaries of the clergy and to subsidize other expenses of the Roman Catholic Church as a compensation for the seizure of church property in the \"Desamortización de Mendizábal\" of 1835-1837. This pact was renounced in 1931, when the secular constitution of the Second Spanish Republic imposed a series of anticlerical measures that threatened the Church's hegemony in Spain, provoking the Church's support for the Francisco Franco uprising five years later. In the ensuing Civil War, alleged Communists and Anarchists in Republican areas killed about 7,000 priests.\n\nThe advent of the Franco regime saw the restoration of the church's privileges under a totalitarian system known as \"National Catholicism\". During the Franco years, Roman Catholicism was the only religion to have legal status; other worship services could not be advertised, and no other religion could own property or publish books. The Government not only continued to pay priests' salaries and to subsidize the Church, it also assisted in the reconstruction of church buildings damaged by the war. Laws were passed abolishing divorce and civil marriages as well as banning abortion and the sale of contraceptives. Homosexuality and all other forms of sexual permissiveness were also banned. Catholic religious instruction was mandatory, even in public schools. Franco secured in return the right to name Roman Catholic bishops in Spain, as well as veto power over appointments of clergy down to the parish priest level. \n\nIn 1953 this close cooperation was formalized in a new Concordat with the Vatican that granted the church an extraordinary set of privileges: mandatory canonical marriages for all Catholics; exemption from government taxation; subsidies for new building construction; censorship of materials the Church deemed offensive; the right to establish universities, to operate radio stations, and to publish newspapers and magazines; protection from police intrusion into church properties; and exemption of military service.\n\nThe proclamation of the Second Vatican Council in favor of religious freedom in 1965 provided more rights to other religious denominations in Spain. In the late 1960s, the Vatican attempted to reform the Church in Spain by appointing interim, or acting, bishops, thereby circumventing Franco's stranglehold on the country's clergy. Many young priests, under foreign influence, became worker priests and participated in anti-regime agitation. Many of them ended as leftist politicians, with some imprisoned in the Concordat prison reserved for priest prisoners. In 1966, the Franco regime passed a law that freed other religions from many of the earlier restrictions, but the law also reaffirmed the privileges of the Catholic Church. Any attempt to revise the 1953 Concordat met Franco's rigid resistance.\n\nIn 1976, however, King Juan Carlos de Borbon unilaterally renounced the right to name the bishops; later that year, Madrid and the Vatican signed a new accord that restored to the church its right to name bishops, and the Church agreed to a revised Concordat that entailed a gradual financial separation of church and state. Church property not used for religious purposes was henceforth to be subject to taxation, and over a period of years, the Church's reliance on state subsidies was to be gradually reduced. The timetable for this reduction was not adhered to, however, and the church continued to receive the public subsidy through 1987 (US$110 million in that year alone).\n\nIt took the new 1978 Spanish Constitution to confirm the right of Spaniards to religious freedom and to begin the process of disestablishing Catholicism as the state religion. The drafters of the Constitution tried to deal with the intense controversy surrounding state support of the Church, but they were not entirely successful. The initial draft of the Constitution did not even mention the Church, which was included almost as an afterthought and only after intense pressure from the church's leadership. Article 16 disestablishes Roman Catholicism as the official religion and provides that religious liberty for non-Catholics is a state-protected legal right, thereby replacing the policy of limited toleration of non-Catholic religious practices. The article further states, however, that \"The public authorities shall take the religious beliefs of Spanish society into account and shall maintain the consequent relations of cooperation with the Catholic Church and the other confessions.\" In addition, Article 27 also aroused controversy by appearing to pledge continuing government subsidies for private, Church-affiliated schools. These schools were sharply criticized by Spanish Socialists for having created and perpetuated a class-based, separate, and unequal school system. The Constitution, however, includes no affirmation that the majority of Spaniards are Catholics or that the state should take into account the teachings of Catholicism. The Constitution declares Spain a \"non-confessional\" state, however it is not a \"laïque\" state like France or Mexico.\n\nGovernment financial aid to the Catholic Church was a difficult and contentious issue. The Church argued that, in return for the subsidy, the state had received the social, health, and educational services of tens of thousands of priests and nuns who fulfilled vital functions that the state itself could not have performed at that time. Nevertheless, the revised Concordat was supposed to replace direct state aid to the church with a scheme that would allow taxpayers to designate a certain portion of their taxes to be diverted directly to the Church. Through 1985, taxpayers were allowed to deduct up to 10 percent from their taxable income for donations to the Catholic Church. Partly because of the protests against this arrangement from representatives of Spain's other religious groups and even some from the catholic religion itself, the tax laws were changed in 2007 so that taxpayers could choose between giving 0.52 percent of their income tax to the church and allocating it to the government's welfare and culture budgets. For three years, the government would continue to give the Church a gradually reduced subsidy, but after that the church would have to subsist on its own resources. The government would continue, however, its program of subsidizing Catholic schools, which in 1987 cost the Spanish taxpayers about US$300 million, exclusive of the salaries of teachers, which were paid directly by the Ministry of Education and Science.\n\nIn a population of about 39 million at the beginning of Transition, the number of non-Catholics was probably no more than 300,000. About 290,000 of these were of other Christian faiths, including several Protestant denominations, Jehovah's Witnesses, and Mormons. The number of Jews in Spain was estimated at about 13,000\nMurcia Jewish community. More than 19 out of every 20 Spaniards were baptized Catholics; about 60 percent of them attended Mass; about 30 percent of the baptized Catholics did so regularly, although this figure declined to about 20 percent in the larger cities. In 1979, about 97 percent of all marriages were performed according to the Catholic rite. A 1982 report by the church claimed that 82 percent of all children born the preceding year had been baptized in the church.\n\nNevertheless, there were forces at work bringing about fundamental changes in the place of the church in society. One such force was the improvement in the economic fortunes of the great majority of Spaniards, making society more materialistic and less religious. Another force was the massive shift in population from farm and village to the growing urban centers, where the church had less influence over the values of its members. These changes were transforming the way Spaniards defined their religious identity.\n\nBeing a Catholic in Spain had less and less to do with regular attendance at Mass and more to do with the routine observance of important rituals such as baptism, marriage, and burial of the dead. A 1980 survey revealed that, although 82 percent of Spaniards were believers in Catholicism, very few considered themselves to be very good practitioners of the faith. In the case of the youth of the country, even smaller percentages believed themselves to be \"very good\" or \"practicing\" Catholics.\n\nIn contrast to an earlier era, when rejection of the church went along with education, in the late 1980s studies showed that the more educated a person was, the more likely he or she was to be a practicing Catholic. This new acceptance of the church was due partly to the church's new self-restraint in politics. In a significant change from the pre-Civil War era, the church had accepted the need for the separation of religion and the state, and it had even discouraged the creation of a Christian Democratic party in the country.\n\nThe traditional links between the political right and the church no longer dictated political preferences; in the 1982 general election, more than half of the country's practicing Catholics voted for the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party. Although the Socialist leadership professed agnosticism, according to surveys between 40 and 45 percent of the party's rank-and-file members held religious beliefs, and more than 70 percent of these professed to be Catholics. Among those entering the party after Franco's death, about half considered themselves Catholic.\n\nOne important indicator of the changes taking place in the role of the church was the reduction in the number of Spaniards in Holy Orders. In 1984 the country had more than 22,000 parish priests, nearly 10,000 ordained monks, and nearly 75,000 nuns. These numbers concealed a troubling reality, however. More than 70 percent of the diocesan clergy was between the ages of 35 and 65; the average age of the clergy in 1982 was 49 years. At the upper end of the age range, the low numbers reflected the impact of the Civil War, in which more than 4,000 parish priests died. At the lower end, the scarcity of younger priests reflected the general crisis in vocations throughout the world, which began to be felt in the 1960s. Its effects were felt especially acutely in Spain. The crisis was seen in the decline in the number of young men joining the priesthood and in the increase in the number of priests leaving Holy Orders. The number of seminarists in Spain fell from more than 9,000 in the 1950s to only 1,500 in 1979, even though it rose slightly in 1982 to about 1,700. In 2008, there were just 1,221 students in these theological schools.\n\nChanges in the social meaning of religious vocations were perhaps part of the problem; having a priest in the family no longer seemed to spark the kind of pride that family members would have felt in the past. The principal reason in most cases, though, was the church's continued ban on marriage for priests. Previously, the crisis was not particularly serious because of the age distribution of the clergy. As the twentieth century neared an end, however, a serious imbalance appeared between those entering the priesthood and those leaving it. The effects of this crisis were already visible in the decline in the number of parish priests in Spain—from 23,620 in 1979 to just over 22,000 by 1983 and 19,307 in 2005. New ordinations also dropped 19% from 241 in 1998 to 196 in 2008, with all-time record lows of 168 priests out of 45 million Spaniards taking their vows in 2007. The number of nuns shrank 6.9% to 54,160 in the period 2000-2005 as well. On the 21 August 2005, Evans David Gliwitzki became the first Catholic priest to get married in Spain.\n\nAnother sign of the church's declining role in Spanish life was the diminishing importance of the controversial secular religious institute, Opus Dei (Work of God). Opus Dei, a worldwide lay religious body, did not adhere to any particular political philosophy. Its founder, Jose Maria Escriva de Balaguer y Albas, stated that the organization was nonpolitical. The organization was founded in 1928 as a reaction to the increasing secularization of Spain's universities, and higher education continued to be one of the institute's foremost priorities. Despite its public commitment to a nonpolitical stance, Opus Dei members rose to occupy key positions in the Franco régime, especially in the field of economic policy-making in the late 1950s and the early 1960s. Opus Dei members dominated the group of liberal technocrats who engineered the opening of Spain's autarchic economy after 1957. After the 1973 assassination of Prime Minister Luis Carrero Blanco (often rumored to be an Opus Dei member), however, the influence of the institute declined sharply. The secrecy of the order and its activities and the power of its myth helped it maintain its strong position of influence in Spain; but there was little doubt that, compared with the 1950s and the 1960s, Opus Dei had fallen from being one of the country's chief political organizations to being simply one among many such groups competing for power in an open and pluralist society.\n\nAn important number of Latin American immigrants, who are usually strong Catholic practitioners, have helped the Catholic Church to recover part of the attendance that regular Masses (Sunday Mass) used to have in the sixties and seventies and that was lost in the eighties among native Spaniards.\n\nSince 2003, the involvement of the Catholic Church in political affairs, through special groups such as Opus Dei, the Neocatechumenal Way or the Legion of Christ, especially personated through important politicians in the right-wing People's Party, has increased again. Old and new media, which are property of the Church, such as the COPE radio network or , have also contributed to this new involvement in politics by their own admission. The Church is no longer seen as a neutral and independent institution in political affairs and it is generally aligned with the opinion and politics of the People's Party. This implication has had, as a consequence, a renewed criticism from important sectors of the population (especially the majority of left-wing voters) against the Church and the way in which it is economically sustained by the State. While by 2017-2018 the Church was slowly backpedalling, the damage is potentially long-lasting among the younger generations who had not experienced it personally in such degree.\n\nThe total number of parish priests shrank from 24,300 in 1975 to 18,500 in 2018, with an average age of 65.5 years. The number of nuns dropped by 44.5% to 32,270 between 2000 and 2016; most of them are old. By contrast, some expressions of popular religiosity still thrive, often linked to local festivals, and about 68.5% of the population self-defined themselves as Catholics in 2018, but just 39.8% of them (27.3% of the total population) attend Mass monthly or more often. Despite the arrival of large numbers of Catholic, Orthodox, Muslim and Protestant immigrants, irreligion continues to be the fastest growing demographic .\n\n"}
{"id": "14452328", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14452328", "title": "Sellisternium", "text": "Sellisternium\n\nThe sellisternium or \"solisternium\" was a ritual banquet for goddesses in the Ancient Roman religion. It was based on a variant of the Greek \"theoxenias\", and was considered an appropriately \"greek\" form of rite for some Roman goddesses thought to have been originally Greek, or with clearly Greek counterparts. In the traditional Roman lectisternium, the images of attending deities, usually male, reclined on couches along with their male hosts or guests. In the sellisternium, the attending goddesses sat on chairs or benches (in Latin, \"sellae\"), usually in the company of exclusively female hosts and guests. A sellisternium for the Magna Mater was part of her ludi Megalenses; a representation of her temple on the Augustan Ara Pietatis probably shows her sellisternum, which includes Attis, her castrated consort. After Rome's great fire of 64 AD, a sellisternium was held to propitiate Juno. The secular games had a sellisternium for Juno and Diana, and according to Macrobius, a seated banquet of the gods and goddesses alike was part of Hercules' cult at the Ara Maxima.\n"}
{"id": "4564941", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4564941", "title": "Shakumbhri Devi", "text": "Shakumbhri Devi\n\nShakumbhri Devi temple is one of the famous shakthi peeth temple in India.According to mythology lord Brahma performed a yagna to sacrifice shiva and shakthi. Goddess shakthi arise separately from shiva and helped brahma for creating the universe. After completing the work brahma decided to give shakthi to shiva. At that time his son dhaksha performed many yaganas to get shakthi as his daughter in the form of sati and planned to marry sati to shiva after getting into the world. But due to shivas curse to brahma was that his fifth head was cut off due to his lie in front of shiva.by this incident dhaksha got angry on shiva and decided not to let sati and shiva get married. However sati got attarcted by shiva and got married. So dhaksha performed a yagna to take revenge on lord shiva.For that yagna he invites all the deities except lord shiva so sati got angry and fallen into the yagna.By the insult of dhaksha towards shiva,Shiva in virabhadra avatar destroyed dhakshas yagna and also cut the dhakshas head and later replaced it by the male goat head. Still\n\nIt is said that, at this place, Mother Goddess Shakumbhri killed the mighty demon king (Maha Daitya) Mahishasura. It is also believed that, here she performed worship and meditation (Tapas) for 100 years, having a vegetarian meal (shaka-ahar) only once at the end of every month. During this time, the saints and seers (Rishis/Munis) who came for her worship (Darshan) were welcomed and honoured with vegetarian meals. Because of this the temple was named the Shakumbhri Devi temple and she also got very strongly connected with the cult of vegetarianism among Hindus.\n\nThe temple is considered as one of the more ancient temples of maa sakumbhari and the idol considered swayambhu (appeared naturally). the temple is close to the town of udaipur shekhavati and in sikar district. The temple holds colourful navratras festival and there is an ancient mutt or shaktipeeth.\n\nThe temple is on the site of the ruins of a more ancient temple and was constructed by the Pundir Rajputs under Rana Bahadur Singh Pundir who was the representative of the Pundir chief Rana Pitambar Singh Pundir of Jasmour. Though it is not an ancient temple, its devotees consider it to be a Shakti Peetha, a powerful seat of Shakti, the divine feminine.\nThe devotees have a strong faith in the Goddess and the temple attracts a large number of devotees from India as also from outside the country particularly during the Navratree days. The temple is well maintained and is well laid out to have full darshan of the idols in the sanctum sanctorum of the temple. It is found from the plaque displayed near the staircase that it was during the early 1960s that a properly covered corridor, connecting the main entrance gate and outer varandah of the temple, was constructed for the convenience and comfort of the devotees. This work was done, with the permission of the Ranas of Jasmour who own the temple, by one Shri Radha Kishan,then Treasurer of the erstwhile Kalsia State (Chhachhrauli)(presently in Yamunanagar District of Haryana)from his personal contribution and also by collecting donations from several devotees.It is indeed an experience of life to visit the main temple as also the nearby Bhuradev Temple seeking their blessings and benedictions.It is rightly said that a visit to these temples with faith and devotion always brings great satisfaction, rewards and contentment in life and family.These temples are easily approachable by road or train from different parts of the country and their location is surrounded by hills and serene environment.\n\nAnother shrine dedicated to Shakumbari Devi is near the famous Sambhar Lake, 90 kilometers west of Jaipur, Rajasthan. This temple is quite ancient and popular estimates put the age of this temple at 1300 years or more.\n\nAccording to a Hindu tradition, Shakumbhari Devi - tutelary Goddess of Pundir, Audichya Brahmins, [Joshi, Chauhan and - converted forest to a plain of precious metals. When people worried and felt it as curse rather than blessing, and requested her to retract her favor, she converted the silver to salt, now found in the lake.\n\nAnother temple that finds its association with Shakumbhari Devi is \"Jeen-Maa temple\", near Goriya, Sikar, Rajasthan. JAI MATA SHAKUMBHRI DEVI KI JAI\n\nTwice a year, in the Ashwin and Chaitra months of the Hindu calendar (during the days of Navratra),as also at the time of Holi festival, the famous Shakumbhri melas are organised.It is during these melas, in particular, that the roads from Saharanpur(U.P.) to the Temple are properly maintained so as to facilitate to and fro smooth journey for the devotees. The devotees to Shakumbhri first visit Bhura-Dev temple which is about one kilometer before the Temple and then proceed to the Temple of the Goddess.\n\nThe popularity of this temple has been increasing day by day and many devotees from far and near visit this temple for \"Darshan\" these days. During this famous melas, lakhs of Hindu devotees visit this temple for darshan. It is indeed considered to be a rewarding experience to visit the Temple with devotion and faith in the munificence of the Goddess.\n\nJai Shakumbari Maa (2000) produced and directed by Shiv Kumar.\n\n"}
{"id": "55830165", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55830165", "title": "Simon Bauer", "text": "Simon Bauer\n\nSimon Bauer (1862–1947) was a Jewish businessman in France and a collector of Impressionist art. His collection was stolen by the Vichy government in October 1943. While some works have been recovered, most are still missing. The Simon Bauer collection included 93 works from the Impressionist movement. Since the liberation of France, some of the canvases have reappeared at auctions or exhibitions in museums.\n\nSimon Bauer was born in 1862 to a humble background. He made a fortune in the footwear business, selling his holdings at the age of 40, at which point he began to travel the world to make up for his lack of education.\n\nAccording to the inventory taken at the time of its appropriation on 10 October 1943, Bauer's art collection comprised more than 90 works that included eleven by Pissarro, four by Sisley, four by Boudin, and one each by Degas and Berthe Morisot. The sale was entrusted to a merchant designated by the General Commissariat for Jewish Affairs ().\n\nThe following year, in the summer of 1944, Bauer was interned at the Drancy internment camp but saved from deportation and likely death by a railway strike. He was released in September 1944 and tried to recover the paintings that had been stolen from him, but with little success. Some of them are kept in the Jeu de Paume museum in Paris, but most have disappeared.\n\nBauer died in 1947. His grandson, Jean-Jacques Bauer, has attempted to recover his grandfather's paintings. In 1965, he managed to locate two Pissarros but could not get restitution. In 2013, the \"treasure of Munich\" was found in the hoard held by Cornelius Gurlitt. In May 2017, Pissarro's \"Picking Peas\" (1887) was discovered at the Musée Marmottan Monet to whom it had been lent by Bruce and Robbi Toll, Jewish-American art collectors, for an exhibition. They had bought the painting in good faith for $800,000 at Christie's New York in 1995. A French court ordered the painting's restitution to the Bauer family without compensation to the Tolls.\n\n"}
{"id": "34526811", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34526811", "title": "St Cuthbert's Well", "text": "St Cuthbert's Well\n\nSt Cuthbert's Well, known locally as Cuddy's Well, is an ancient holy well in the village of Bellingham, adjacent to St Cuthbert's Church, an eleventh-century church associated with the cult of the seventh century monk, bishop and hermit St Cuthbert. \n\nThree miracles at Bellingham, connected with the mediaeval cult of St Cuthbert, are recorded in the twelfth century \"Libellus\" of Reginald of Durham. They concern Sproich, a poor but pious man employed as a bridge-builder by the Almoner of Durham.In the first miracle, after Sproich's daughter Eda stays away from church to sew a dress on the feast day of St Lawrence, her left hand becomes paralysed, clutching the dress. She is miraculously cured by an apparition of St Cuthbert after drinking water from the well. In the second, on the occasion of Eda's marriage, Sproich's cow is seized in payment by a bailiff of the local lord and placed with another tenant. whose house is later struck by lightning. The cow is miraculously spared. In the third, a thief called Walter of Flanders and his accomplice, who have stolen Sproich's axe, are fatally attacked by the head and the handle of the axe.\n\nThe well, in a lane next to St Cuthbert's Church, is now directed through a Georgian conduit, known locally as a \"pant\". The water is still used for baptisms. According to local tradition St Cuthbert originally discovered the source of the well.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58984315", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58984315", "title": "Throne Hall of Dongola", "text": "Throne Hall of Dongola\n\nThe Throne Hall of Dongola, also known as the Mosque Building, is an archaeological site in Old Dongola, Sudan. It is a two-storey brick building situated on a rocky hill, overlooking the town and the Nile valley. It was originally built in the 9th century, serving as the richly adorned representative building of the Makurian kings. In 1317, during the period of Makurian decline, it was converted into a mosque, serving this puprose until it was closed and turned into a historic monument in 1969. Shortly afterwards Polish archaeologists began to excavate the building. It has been described as possibly \"the most important, symbolic edifice in the medieval history of Sudan\". It is also the oldest Sudanese mosque still standing.\n\nFrom the late 5th century Old Dongola (Old Nubian: \"Tungul\") was to be the capital of the Nubian kingdom of Makuria, which converted to Christianity in the mid-6th century and successfully defended its independence from the Islamic onslaught in the 7th century. Between the 9th and 11th centuries the town enjoyed a golden age. In the 9th century, several representative buildings were constructed, among them the Throne Hall. It was probably built in the first half of the century, during the reign of King Georgios I () and his father Zakharias II (). It was located on a rocky outcrop in the eastern part of the city. From this prominence the two-storey building enjoyed an extensive view of the town and the Nile. Its purpose has been interpreted differently over the years, ranging from church, monastery and royal castle. However, its internal design suggests that the building had an official, non-residential purpose, and that it was intended to impress visitors. The actual throne hall was on the upper floor, which official delegations and processions reached by ascending a monumental staircase. Both the throne hall and the staircase were adorned with wall paintings. During the 11th–12th centuries they were altered.\n\nFrom 1265 Makuria endured repeated invasions by the Mamluk sultanate, which, from 1276, usually installed a puppet king on the Makurian throne. At the end of the 13th century, after yet another confrontation with the Mamluks, the most prestigious buildings of Old Dongola, among them the Throne Hall, lay in ruins and the population had dropped drastically due to deportations. The Throne Hall in particular had both its south and northwest devastated. Shortly after the damage was inflicted, at the turn of the 13th century, the building was repaired, although not in its entirety and with various modifications.\nIn 1316 the Mamluks intervended into the Makurian affairs once more, intending to install prince Barshambu on the throne. In contrast to the kings before him, he was a Muslim. On May 29, 1317 he converted the Throne Hall into a mosque, as is confirmed by a marble inscription. Alterations to the building, especially in the central hall on the upper floor, were made according to its new function, such as the inclusion of a mihrab and the application of plaster over the Christian wall paintings. Barshambu was not popular among his subjects due to his attitude and his reforms; Nubiologist Wlodziemierz Godlewski postulates that the conversion of the Throne Hall might have played its part in his fall. He was eventually murderded by his own followers in the same year. After his death Makuria was ruled by both Muslim and Christian kings. None of them dared to restore the former function of the building, as the Mamluk sultans supported its new function.\nA civil war caused the destruction of Old Dongola in 1365. The Makurian kings fled to Lower Nubia in the north, where they would maintain themselves for approximately 150 years. Old Dongola, abandoned by Makuria, came under the control of the Arabic Banu Ja'd tribe and eventually a new political entity, the so-called \"Kingdom of Dongola Town\", which was incorporated into the Funj sultanate during the early-16th century. The building is recorded to have served as a residence for Mecca pilgrims. However, during the 17th–19th centuries the ground floor was probably inacessable.\nIn the second half of the 18th century a local sheikh is recorded to have renovated the mosque extensively.\n\nFrom the early 19th century the building was repeatedly described by western travellers and researchers. In the late-19th century Old Dongola was abandoned, probably for economic reasons, but the mosque remained in use. In 1906 it was extensively documented for the first time. One year later it received another restoration; numerous others conducted by the Sudan Antiquities Service and various museums followed in the mid-20th century. It was the oldest Sudanese mosque still standing and was finally closed as a place of worship in 1969.\n\nAfter the salvage excavation of Faras Cathedral, Polish archaeologists turned their attention to Old Dongola, where they started digging from 1964. Between 1970 and 1983 they excavated the Throne Hall and documented its architecture and wall paintings.\n\nIt is intended that the Old Dongola site be transformed into an archaeological park. The construction of a steel roof is planned, providing protection and forming a stabilizing framework. From 2018 to 2023 Old Dongola will be the subject of a large, multidisciplinary project researching the transformations that occurred between the 14th and early-19th centuries.\n\nThe Throne Hall was inspired by Byzantine architecture, providing a testament to the Makurian attachment to Byzantine culture. Very similar audience halls are known from the Bulgarian Empire, imitating, albeit on a smaller scale, those of Constantinople. The Throne Hall, measuring 12m (39ft) in height, 28m (92ft) in length and 18m (59ft) in width, was built of mud bricks, red (fired) bricks and sandstone.\n\nThe wall paintings in the Throne Hall have suffered damage from rain water, termites and bats. They are located at the staircase and in the central hall and show influences by Byzantine models. The walls of the staircase had two layers of painted plaster, showing Archangel Michael wielding a spear, two warrior saints (one on foot and one on horseback) as well as several unidentifiable standing figures.\n\nThe central hall also had multiple layers of painted plaster, the amount varying from wall to wall. Its east wall housed a large nativity scene featuring the Virgin Mary lying on a mattress, a crib with the Christ Child, angels and, on the left side of the painting, the three Biblical Magi. The colour scheme is mostly limited to yellows, oranges, reds and violets. The eastern part of the south wall features a fragmentary depiction of Archangel Michael and the Holy Trinity, while the western part was divided into two scenes, one showing Mary holding the Christ Child, who reaches out for a palm tree. Again the colours are mostly limited to violet, yellow and red. The iconography of this last scene is unique in a Makurian context. The other scene from the western part of the south wall initially featured the Transfiguration, but was later painted over with the Holy Trinity and a (barely preserved) king wearing a horned crown. On the west wall a king with a scepter and a Byzantine crown, as well as two standing figures with halos, can be seen. The north wall features a large cross, a priest and a king, who wears a crown, a blue veil and a white robe. A later layer of painted plaster added the twenty-four elders from the Book of Revelation, depicted wearing white robes and wielding palm leaves, while sitting on thrones.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26048680", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26048680", "title": "United Christian Party (Australia)", "text": "United Christian Party (Australia)\n\nThe United Christian Party was a minor Australian political party active between 1972 and 1974, and again in 1980. Following 1980 it was renamed the Australian Christian Party and contested the 1983 election as such.\n\nOriginally formed in South Australia, its platform listed the election of a non-party-bound Christian to the Senate, the development of the Aboriginal race with the rest of the community, monarchism and the preservation of the Australian flag's current form as its aims. It contested the Senate in 1974 and the House of Representatives (in Victorian seats) in 1980 and 1983.\n"}
{"id": "24665688", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24665688", "title": "Wang Ye worship", "text": "Wang Ye worship\n\nWang Ye worship () is a Fujianese and Taiwanese folk religion, frequently considered an aspect of the Taoist belief system. Wang Ye is particularly worshiped in Southern Taiwan.\n\nThe customary belief is that Wang Ye, or Wang Yeh (), are divine emissaries who tour the world of the living on behalf of the celestial realm, expelling disease and evil from those who worship them. A temple that houses a Wang Ye is generally called 代天府 (\"daitian fu\": \"palace representing heaven\"), and the Wang Ye's visit is known as 代天巡狩 (\"dai tian xunshou\": \"hunting tour on behalf of heaven\"), the object of the \"hunting\" being disease and bad luck. Such \"hunting tours\" take place on a regular cycle of a set number of years, usually three years.\n\nWang Ye worship stems from belief in two main categories of supernatural beings, both of which are spirits of what were once, according to legend, real human beings. \n\nThe first category of Wang Ye belief began with the legend of a kind-hearted intellectual who committed suicide in a well with toxic water in it, trying to stop the villagers from drawing the well water and to stop pestilence from spreading. Therefore, to stop diseases, like pestilence, from spreading, people would pray and make offerings to those beings who committed their own lives for the public. As time passed by, these people are honored as Wang Ye and gradually became disease-dispelling gods and bringers of good fortune.\n\nThe second category comprises heroes who attained godhood as a result of great acts in their lives. An example is the spirit of Koxinga, thus honored for his role in fighting the Qing forces.\n\nThere are many Wang Ye: some traditions claim there are a total of 360, with 132 surnames among them.\n\nWang Ye festivals take place in various parts of Taiwan, mostly in the south. They generally involve processions of gods to ward away disease and bring good fortune, and end with the burning or launch of a replica boat.\n\nOne of the primary Wang Ye festivals in Taiwan takes place in the city of Donggang, Pingtung County, once every three years. The 2009 festival began on October 10 and culminated in the early morning of October 17, when a wooden boat was set on fire on the beach.\n\nThe Nankunshen Daitian Temple, considered Wang Ye's founding temple, was built in 1817 and is located in Beimen, Tainan.\n"}
