{"id": "48545955", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48545955", "title": "ARCS Foundation", "text": "ARCS Foundation\n\nThe ARCS foundation (Achievement Rewards for College Scientists) is a non-profit organization that is administered by a group of women who financially support graduates and undergraduates of the United States's colleges and universities. They provide scholarships and awards to create new discoveries in the field of biological and chemical science and technology.\n\nAccording to ARCS Scholar Shirin Doroudgar, Ph.D. Researcher, Molecular Cardiology, \"Organization like ARCS foundation are the perfect example of how a group of people poised to take action can make a difference.\"\n\nIn 1958 a group of women contacted California Institute of Technology President Lee DuBridge to start the program.\n\nThe main objective was declared on the Caltech campus in Pasadena, CA on September 18, 1958: \". . . raise money for scholarships and fellowships (now known as Scholar Awards) . . . for the support of both undergraduate and graduate students.\n\nARCS scholars perform research in their field and publicize their work in their preferred field.\n\nARCS scholars must be:\n\n\nEligible fields of study are:\n\nAcademic accomplishments include:\n\nScientific accomplishments include:\n\nEconomic accomplishments include:\n"}
{"id": "19608756", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19608756", "title": "Academy of Lille", "text": "Academy of Lille\n\nThe Academy of Lille is a French educational district managed by a Vice-chancellor that gathers together schools of Nord-Pas-de-Calais. The university of the academy is the Lille Northern university of France. The academy of Lille belongs to zone B.\n\nAmong the schools regulated by the academy is the Institution Saint Michel: Collège and Lycée, a Catholic Secondary School with boarding facilities located in Solesmes, France.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23018630", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23018630", "title": "American Indian Public Charter School", "text": "American Indian Public Charter School\n\nAmerican Indian Public Charter School or AIPCS is an Oakland, California charter middle school with predominantly low-income, minority students. It opened in 1996 and struggled over the next few years until a turnaround after 2000 brought up enrollment numbers and test scores. \n\nBy 2005, the AIPCS students achieved test scores superior those of most public schools in the state. Its principal, Ben Chavis (Lumbee), a Native American educator, believed that minority students were best served by high expectations for strong attendance and discipline, as well as regular homework and summer school. Chavis was criticized for some of his methods. In 2007, AICPS became the first public school in Oakland to win the National Blue Ribbon Award. The AICPS attracted an increasingly diverse student body as enrollment increased, with higher proportions of African American, Asian and Latino students than Native Americans. By 2015, its students were overwhelmingly Asian.\n\nThe American Indian Model Schools charter system developed from the AIPCS in order to expand the offerings to students. Since 2007, under new management, it has operated three schools in the city, two middle schools (one had grades K-4 added in 2012), and a high school, American Indian Public High School. The charter for the AIMS schools was threatened in 2012 because of discoveries of financial mismanagement and concerns about leadership. Although the Oakland School District voted to revoke the charter, the school system gained a preliminary injunction that allowed it to operate the three schools. With new leaders, it gained a 5-year renewal of its charter in 2013.\n\nOther irregularities were reported in 2012 as the result of a state \"extraordinary audit\" of the second middle school, AIPCS II. There were allegations of additional mismanagement and fraud. In March 2017 former principal Ben Chavis was indicted by the federal government on six felony counts for money laundering and mail fraud based on his financial activities with the AIMS schools. He will be tried in federal district court in San Francisco.\n\nAIPCS was chartered by the Oakland Unified School District (OUSD) in 1996 with the mission of improving the performance of Native American students in the city. As a charter public school, AIPCS was free to students and had considerable autonomy. Once located in a converted church in Oakland's Laurel District, the school moved to 171 12th Street. The high school is located at 746 Grand Avenue. \n\nSince 2007, the charter school district is known as AIMS, American Indian Model Schools. The first school had a predominantly Native American student population at its founding and it focused on Native American culture. Classes included cultural elements such as traditional bead-making and drumming. Martin Waukazoo, one of the founders of the AIPCS, said that he withdrew from the school board because it did not sufficiently emphasize basic educational skills. He said \"They were doing too many fuzzy, warm things like bead-making classes and drum classes. Those are good hobbies, but our kids need to learn to read and write. I felt it was doing more harm than good.\" \n\nBy 2001, the school was failing. Enrollment dropped to 34 and test scores were abysmal. That year, educator Ben Chavis (Lumbee from North Carolina) and a former faculty member at San Francisco State University, became the school principal and initiated numerous changes. Chavis, who had experience as a public school principal, was recruited from Arizona, where he was serving as superintendent of schools at the Fort Apache Indian Reservation. \n\nChavis replaced most of the school's staff, eliminated bilingual education and Native American cultural content from the curriculum, and gave away all the school's technology equipment. Chavis focused instruction on the California Content Standards and instituted a number of unorthodox disciplinary policies.\n\nIn 2005 American Indian Public Charter School had seven teachers. The student teacher ratio was 25 to one. Most of the teachers were in their twenties. During that year, Chavis said that the few teachers who were not credentialed were enrolled in credentialing programs.\n\nAs of 2005 AIPCS paid each first-year teacher an annual salary of $42,000 and allowed for a $1,500 bonus at the end of the school year. The annual salary of an entry-level teacher in the Oakland Unified School District was $37,000 during that year.\n\nIn the years that followed, the school's enrollment increased and test scores dramatically improved, with the school becoming one of the highest achievers in the state. During the same time period, the percentage of students identifying as American Indian at the school decreased to less than 5%, following the general trend in Oakland's public schools. Students included higher numbers of African Americans, Latino, and Asian Americans; by 2012, students in the three schools of the AIM system were 90% Asian American. \n\nIn 2007, the AIPCS board expanded its operation, and founded the American Indian Model Schools system (see related article.) It opened a second middle school campus, AIPCS II, and a high school, the American Indian Public High School (AIPHS). In the same year, Chavis resigned as head of school after several controversies, but he was retained by the board in an executive role until January 2012.\nOn March 20, 2013, the Oakland School Board in a 4 - 3 vote decided to revoke the three schools' charters. This included the charter for the AIPCS elementary school attended by Chavis' own children. On July 15, 2013, Alameda County Superior Court Judge Evelio Grillo granted the school system a preliminary injunction, allowing all three campuses to remain open.\n\nAIPCS employs a \"back-to-basics, squared\" approach to schooling. Students spend their academic school day in a self-contained classroom with one teacher. In theory, this teacher stays with these students through their three years at AIPCS, but in practice, high teacher turnover makes this impossible.\n\nAIPCS adheres to the American Indian Model (AIM), the focus of which is excellent student attendance. In keeping with this, originally AIPCS gave cash awards of up to $100 to students who attend every school day for a year and claims yearly attendance rates as high as 99.6%.\n\nThe school day at AIPCS begins with three hours of Language Arts and Mathematics, followed by a short lunch period (twenty minutes). Time between classes is intentionally minimal; the school estimates that this adds a week's worth of classroom time per year.\n\nStudents are assigned at least 2 hours of homework every night. Students with incomplete work are liable for a detention after school. Struggling students who show little to no improvement over the school year may be retained; one student was held back for earning a \"B\" in math. All students are required to attend summer school.\n\nThe student dress code is khaki- or navy-colored pants and white, collared shirts. Makeup and jewelry are not permitted.\n\nThe school had minimal lab equipment in 2012, and science was taught mostly through textbooks. Under Chavis, the school had no televisions, as he believed they led to mischief. The school offers music, performance art, study hall, and club activities after school.\n\nAndrew J. Coulson, Director of the Center for Educational Freedom, says that AIPCS has the formula for maximizing academic achievement for poor minority students: [AIPCS] \"instills in the school environment those cultural characteristics necessary for academic success that are missing in the home\".\n\nPhysical education at AIPCS was offered for forty minutes each school day, and consists of primarily calisthenics and running. Students do not play traditional games such as basketball, football or baseball. According to the AIPCS website, its students in 2007-2008 significantly outperform the Oakland Unified School District average on multiple measures of physical fitness, including aerobic capacity, flexibility, and multiple measures of strength.\n\nAIPCS disciplinary procedures are in line with the California Education Code. Students who are disruptive, submit incomplete work, or misbehave in other ways are assigned an hour of detention after school. If the student commits a second infraction in the same week, he or she will get an additional hour of detention and four hours of Saturday School.\n\nOther discipline is more unorthodox. For example, Chavis, with parental permission, shaved the head of a student who was accused of stealing, in front of the entire school. In other cases, he punished a girl by making her clean the boys' bathroom, and forced some students to wear embarrassing signs.\n\nNot all AIPCS staff adhere to the methods used by Chavis. Following his departure in 2012, the school administrators eliminated or toned down some of the more unorthodox disciplinary methods.\n\nChavis summed up his beliefs in 2007 that liberal thinkers hurt minority students:\n\nFrom 2000 to 2006, the school's Academic Performance Index (API) more than doubled. (API scores range from a minimum of 200 possible points to a maximum of 1000 possible.)\n\nIn 2009, the school's 41 8th graders' had the following scores: \nNote: All AIPCS 8th grade students take Algebra I in the 8th grade, while many California students do not take Algebra I until their first year of high school.\n\nFor comparison, test scores of nearby schools were: \n\nAs of 2009 AIPHS students have also performed very well on standardized tests. Roughly 90% of AIPHS students score at proficient or advanced levels on most subjects, with lower scores in Chemistry and Earth Science. In 2009, AIPHS graduated its first senior class. All 18 graduating seniors were accepted to good four-year colleges for that fall.\n\nCharles Murray, a scholar who has studied IQ testing and the author of \"The Bell Curve\", praised AIPCS in a blog of the American Enterprise Institute. He said he would send his own children there. But, he was skeptical about AIPCS' high test scores, saying that in his experience, such dramatic score improvements seldom stood up to scholarly scrutiny. He proposed six questions to be asked, such as whether the scores had been influenced by the \"practice effect.\" He predicted that the apparent test score improvements at AIPCS under Chavis would prove much less impressive once such questions had been answered.\n\nAccording to 2009 reporting by the \"Los Angeles Times\" and \"Mother Jones\", the teachers' union president said that AIPCS was known for \"cherry-picking\" - that is, recruiting students who would do well and dropping those students who did not perform well academically. AIPCS denied the allegations. \n\nThe \"LA Times\" noted that half of the 6th-grade students performing poorly in 2007 had left the school before graduation at grade 8. Thirty-nine of the 51 students who started in 2006 completed their middle school years with AIPCS. All the students who entered below-grade level and stayed through the 8th grade did improve their standings. Charles Murray had noted in his blog that the failure to take into account the attrition of poorly performing students, who have dropped out of a school, is often the most decisive indicator that a school's evaluation has been inadequate.\n\nBy 2007-2008, the AIPCS student body demographics had changed. The approximately 180 students represented the following ethnic groups:\n\nApproximately 97% of AIPCS students in 2007-2008 were \"socioeconomically disadvantaged\"\n\nIn the earliest years, the school had a larger American Indian population and smaller Asian population. \n\nIn 2007 the American Indian Model Schools system opened AIPCS II, located in Oakland's Chinatown neighborhood; 67% of its students were Asian. In 2005-2006 the entering students came to the middle school almost exclusively from the nearby public Lincoln Elementary School. Its students have had high test scores and are predominantly Asian.\n\nCritics have suggested that AIPCS' continued success is due largely to this demographic shift and the success of its Asian student population. But the \"LA Times\" reported in 2009 that the school's Asian, African-American, and Latino students performed similarly on standardized tests.\n\nAIPCS staff says the school attracts a representative sample of students from local elementary schools. But California's Office of Charter Schools noted that AIPCS' demographics were out of line with those in the surrounding Oakland Unified School District's jurisdiction. In the total district, Asian students made up 14% of the student population, and African American and Latino students each made up 36% of the population. The differences in the AIMS schools could be the result of its recruiting practices.\n\nFrom 2001 to 2008, AIPCS spent under $8,000 per student-year, which was less than half as much per student-year as the surrounding Oakland Unified School District. But the school received more than $200,000 in 2006 from the Walton family foundation, so it was operating with more money than in the public budget. By June 2009, when public schools had a 4.5 percent funding cut, AIPCS had received additional grants of more than $100,000 from the Koret Foundation.\n\nWhen Chavis was the principal at AIPCS and head of the AIMS system, he generated considerable controversy. \n\nAs reported by the \"LA Times\" in 2009, Chavis tended to call all non-Caucasian students, including African Americans, \"darkies.\" Chavis earlier told the \"East Bay Express\", \"I use 'darkie' every day, I use it in the context that I'm Indian and I'm black. I'm a darkie.\" \"I tell the students, if you don't do your work, people are going to call you a lazy Mexican. You're black, they expect you to be an idiot,\" said Chavis in 2005, who is a blue-eyed Lumbee of mixed-race ancestry, including European American. \"I use it to motivate the kids.\"\n\nChavis was reported as allegedly having pushed a teacher down a flight of stairs while calling her a \"fucking bitch\", \"stupid bitch\", as she tried to retrieve her violin after he fired her; allegedly called his own niece a \"slut\" and a \"lying bitch\", and threatened to kill her; and allegedly asked one of the AIPCS female students if a male student \"was still trying to suck your titties\", which he denied.\n\nIn 2007 Chavis allegedly called a Mills College graduate student \"a fucking black minority punk\" after he showed up fifteen minutes late to a group visit at the school, saying that the student was a \"worthless piece of (expletive) people have been making excuses for\". Chavis said that he called the grad student a \"dumbass minority,\" and said \"he was an embarrassment to his race.\" He saw no reason to hold his guests to a different standard than AIPCS students, who receive an hour detention if they arrive one second late to school. \"He came late. White people are on time. What does he think, there's black time? Mexican time? Indian time? The clock is white.\"\n\nThe evening of the incident with the Mills College team, Chavis told the AIPCS board his intention to step down from his position.\n\nCalifornia charter schools are required either to accept all applicants, or, if they have more applicants than capacity, to hold a lottery to determine entrants. AIPCS has never held a lottery. The AIMS board was denied a petition to open a new school in the fall of 2008, in part because AIPCS was \"unable to describe\" their selection process. AIPCS staff stated they had never needed to hold a lottery because they had never had more applicants than seats. But in the same petition, AIPCS stated its primary motivation for opening an additional school was to serve the many families wishing to enroll that the existing schools could not accommodate.\n\nIn 2006, an African-American parent filed a complaint stating that AIPCS told her there was no room for her son and refused to place him on the school's waiting list, even while it was accepting applications from white students. Chavis allegedly told a Caucasian parent that her son would be placed at the top of the school's waiting list because there were too many \"darkies\" and Asians enrolled in the school. If true, AIPCS violated federal and state laws, which prohibit public schools, including charters, from discriminating by race.\n\nIn July 2011, the AIPCS governing board voted Dr. Chavis into an executive position to help with the expansion of the charter model school system. At a board meeting in January 2012, the board announced Dr. Chavis’ resignation and thanked him for his service.\n\nIn August 2011, California’s Fiscal and Crisis Management Team announced it would conduct an extraordinary audit of AIPCS. The audit focused on management of a federal ASES grant for an after-school program, facilities lease and rent expenditures, and the Political Reform Act of 1974, regarding conflict-of-interest laws.\n\nIn early June 2012, the FCMAT published the results of its audit. Key findings in the 65-page document note conclusive documentation of fraud by Chavis in rental agreements, funds siphoned from the SAIL summer program, and bidding for on-site construction projects. The report also noted the lack of fiduciary responsibility by the AIPCS governing board. \n\nMichael Stember resigned from the board of the charter school system between April and June. Jean Martinez became president of the AIPCS governing board. \"The allegations against American Indian charter schools officials include $3.7 million in payments [over 4 years] to businesses owned by founder Ben Chavis and his wife, including money for rent, storage fees, construction projects and the administration of summer school programs.” \n\nThat year Chavis returned to his home state of North Carolina. His records in California were seized in 2013 and he was under continuing investigation by the FBI and IRS for his financial affairs. He was indicted on six felony charges in March 2017 in federal district court in San Francisco, California, in relation to his management of federal grant monies, and arrested in North Carolina.\n\nIn March 2013, the OUSD Board voted to revoke the AIMS charter. The Alameda County Board of Education has an option to overturn the OUSD decision, and the California Board of Education serves as a final point of appeal. If an appeal is not successful, the revocation will come into effect on June 30, 2013. After Chavis resigned, the school worked for a year to revoke the appeal and continue its charter. Before 2015 a new superintendent was selected.\n"}
{"id": "2576279", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2576279", "title": "Arab Academy for Science, Technology &amp; Maritime Transport", "text": "Arab Academy for Science, Technology &amp; Maritime Transport\n\nThe Arab Academy for Science, Technology & Maritime Transport () is a regional university operated by the Arab League which runs programs in marine transportation, business, and engineering.\n\nAASTMT's name has become the Arab Academy for Science and Technology: \"A university specialized in maritime transport\" and its certificates have been made equivalent to those granted by Egyptian universities.\n\nOver five years (from 1991 to 1996), the educational and maritime training services were funded by the Egyptian Ministry of Transport. Consequently, in 1992, the AASTMT was granted the most modern training ship, \"Aida 4\", as a donation from the Japanese government.\n\nIn 1994 the AASTMT was awarded the most modern simulator in the world (completed in two phases) from the USA administration. Cooperation with the American counterpart continued to found an advanced technology center. Scholarships have exceeded 120,000 for students from 58 countries. \n\nThe World Bank has chosen the AASTMT from four international organizations representing the Norwegian Swedish Group, the Hungarian Group and the Danish Group to develop maritime education in Bangladesh by a limited tender. The AASTMT proposal was chosen as the best both technically and financially to carry out the project.\n\nIn October 1996 modified its title from: \"The Arab Academy for Science and Technology: A university specialized in maritime transport.\" to \"The Arab Academy for Science, Technology and Maritime Transport\" (AASTMT).\n\nThe AASTMT has obtained the approval of the Egyptian Supreme Council of Universities for considering the holders of the High Seas Second Officer eligible for the affiliation with any Egyptian University or any 4-year higher education entity which a student can join after high school. \n\nThe AASTMT has flexibility in the process of transferring marine officers from vocational studies to that which allows them to obtain the bachelor\"s degree in Marine Navigation Technology. This is due to the application of the American Credit Hours System. In order to show the importance of this achievement, the holder of the High Seas Captain certificate, when sent to the United Kingdom to obtain the bachelor\"s degree, had to start his studies over regardless of his previous studies. However, due to the flexibility of the current system the AASTMT applies, it opened the door for its officers to obtain the bachelor\"s degree as well as the eligibility certificate in four years.\n\nA report which was prepared by the Japan Transport Cooperation Association in March 1997 tells of the AASTMT progress and the flexibility with which it switched to science and technology then to science, technology and maritime transport. AASTMT has made its certificates equivalent to those granted by Egyptian universities in the fields of engineering and management.\n\nServices include dormitories, hostels and restaurants. The girls hostel can accommodate up to 100 girls.\n\nSeminars and lectures are organized by the Cultural Activities Department in addition to trips and athletic activities. Students organize the annual Parents\" Day.\n\nAASTMT offers educational programmes to serve the community of Alexandria. The programmes enhance the skills of students in language, computing, secretarial work, aviation tickets reservation, marketing and management. \n\nThe programmes start-over every three months, and run all year round. They are carried out at the AASTMT headquarters in Miami, Sidi Bishr and downtown. The programmes are offered according to an evening schedule. The courses are sometimes designed for groups of employees in a company or organizations. The estimated number of those benefiting from these programmes throughout the year, ranges from 15,000 to 20,000 Alexandrians. There are summer courses for the education of children which benefit around 5,000 children.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nAbroad:\n\nBranches under construction:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "452582", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=452582", "title": "Arimaa", "text": "Arimaa\n\nArimaa () is a two-player strategy board game that was designed to be playable with a standard chess set and difficult for computers while still being easy to learn and fun to play for humans. Since 2004, the Arimaa community has held three annual tournaments: a World Championship (humans only), a Computer Championship (computers only), and the Arimaa Challenge (human vs. computer). In 2015, the challenge was won decisively by the computer (Sharp by David Wu), with top players agreeing that computers had become better at the game than humans. As it was a prerequisite for the prize to be awarded, Wu published a paper describing the algorithm and most of \"ICGA Journal\" Issue 38/1 was dedicated to this topic. The algorithm combined traditional alpha–beta pruning (changing sides every 4 ply) with heuristic functions manually written while analysing human expert games.\n\nArimaa was invented in 2003 by Omar Syed, an Indian-American computer engineer trained in artificial intelligence. Syed was inspired by Garry Kasparov's defeat at the hands of the chess computer Deep Blue to design a new game which could be played with a standard chess set, would be difficult for computers to play well, but would have rules simple enough for his then four-year-old son Aamir to understand. (\"Arimaa\" is \"Aamir\" spelled backwards plus an initial \"a\".)\n\nArimaa has won several awards including \"GAMES Magazine\" 2011 Best Abstract Strategy Game, \"Creative Child Magazine\" 2010 Strategy Game of the Year, and the 2010 Parents' Choice Approved Award. It has also been the subject of several research papers.\n\nArimaa is played on an 8×8 board with four trap squares. There are six kinds of pieces, ranging from elephant (strongest) to rabbit (weakest). Stronger pieces can push or pull weaker pieces, and stronger pieces freeze weaker pieces. Pieces can be captured by dislodging them onto a trap square when they have no orthogonally adjacent pieces.\n\nThe two players, Gold and Silver, each control sixteen pieces. These are, in order from strongest to weakest: one elephant (), one camel (), two horses (), two dogs (), two cats (), and eight rabbits . These may be represented by the king, queen, rooks, bishops, knights, and pawns respectively when one plays using a chess set.\n\nThe main object of the game is to move a rabbit of one's own color onto the home rank of the opponent, which is known as a goal. Thus Gold wins by moving a gold rabbit to the eighth rank, and Silver wins by moving a silver rabbit to the first rank. However, because it is difficult to usher a rabbit to the goal line while the board is full of pieces, an intermediate objective is to capture opposing pieces by pushing or pulling them into the trap squares.\n\nThe game can also be won by capturing all of the opponent's rabbits (elimination) or by depriving the opponent of legal moves (immobilization). Compared to goal, these are uncommon.\nThe game begins with an empty board. Gold places the sixteen gold pieces in any configuration on the first and second ranks. Silver then places the sixteen silver pieces in any configuration on the seventh and eighth ranks. Diagram 1 shows one possible initial placement.\n\nAfter the pieces are placed on the board, the players alternate turns, starting with Gold. A turn consists of making one to four steps. With each step a piece may move into an unoccupied square one space left, right, forward, or backward, except that rabbits may not step backward. The steps of a turn may be made by a single piece or distributed among several pieces in any order.\n\nA turn must make a net change to the position. Thus one cannot, for example, take one step forward and one step back with the same piece, effectively passing the turn and evading zugzwang. Furthermore, one's turn may not create the same position with the same player to move as has been created twice before. This rule is similar to the situational super ko rule in the game of Go, which prevents endless loops, and is in contrast to chess where endless loops are considered draws. The prohibitions on passing and repetition make Arimaa a drawless game.\n\nThe second diagram, from the same game as the initial position above, helps illustrate the remaining rules of movement.\n\nA player may use two consecutive steps of a turn to dislodge an opposing piece with a stronger friendly piece which is adjacent in one of the four cardinal directions. For example, a player's dog may dislodge an opposing rabbit or cat, but not a dog, horse, camel, or elephant. The stronger piece may \"pull\" or \"push\" the adjacent weaker piece. When pulling, the stronger piece steps into an empty square, and the square it came from is occupied by the weaker piece. The silver elephant on d5 could step to d4 (or c5 or e5) and pull the gold horse from d6 to d5. When pushing, the weaker piece is moved to an adjacent empty square, and the square it came from is occupied by the stronger piece. The gold elephant on d3 could push the silver rabbit on d2 to e2 and then occupy d2. Note that the rabbit on d2 can't be pushed to d1, c2, or d3, because those squares are not empty.\n\nFriendly pieces may not be dislodged. Also, a piece may not push and pull simultaneously. For example, the gold elephant on d3 could not simultaneously push the silver rabbit on d2 to e2 and pull the silver rabbit from c3 to d3. An elephant can never be dislodged, since there is nothing stronger.\n\nA piece which is adjacent in any cardinal direction to a stronger opposing piece is \"frozen\", unless it is also adjacent to a friendly piece. Frozen pieces may not be moved by the owner, but may be dislodged by the opponent. A frozen piece can freeze another still weaker piece. The silver rabbit on a7 is frozen, but the one on d2 is able to move because it is adjacent to a silver piece. Similarly the gold rabbit on b7 is frozen, but the gold cat on c1 is not. The dogs on a6 and b6 do not freeze each other because they are of equal strength. An elephant cannot be frozen, since there is nothing stronger, but an elephant can be .\n\nA piece which enters a trap square is captured and removed from the game unless there is a friendly piece orthogonally adjacent. Silver could move to capture the gold horse on d6 by pushing it to c6 with the elephant on d5. A piece on a trap square is captured when all adjacent friendly pieces move away. Thus if the silver rabbit on c4 and the silver horse on c2 move away, voluntarily or by being dislodged, the silver rabbit on c3 will be captured.\n\nNote that a piece may voluntarily step into a trap square, even if it is thereby captured. Also, the second step of a pulling maneuver is completed even if the piece doing the pulling is captured on the first step. For example, Silver could step the silver rabbit from f4 to g4 (so that it will no longer support pieces at f3), and then step the silver horse from f2 to f3, which captures the horse; the horse's move could still pull the gold rabbit from f1 to f2.\n\nFor beginning insights into good play, see the .\n\nKarl Juhnke, twice Arimaa world champion, has written a book titled \"Beginning Arimaa\" which gives an introduction to Arimaa tactics and strategies. Also Jean Daligault, six time Arimaa world champion, wrote \"Arimaa Strategies and Tactics\" which is geared towards those who have started playing Arimaa and want to improve their game.\n\nEach year since 2004 the Arimaa community has held a World Championship tournament. The tournament is played over the Internet and is open to everyone. The current world champion is Matthew Craven of the United States of America. Past world champion title holders are:\n\nEach year from 2004 to 2015 the Arimaa community held a World Computer Championship tournament. The tournament is played over the Internet and is open to everyone. The current champion is bot_sharp developed by David Wu of the USA. Past computer world champion title holders are:\n\nThe Arimaa Challenge was a cash prize of around $10,000 that was to have been available annually until 2020 for the first computer program to win the human-versus-computer Arimaa challenge. As part of the conditions of the prize, the computer program must run on standard, off-the-shelf hardware.\n\nThe Arimaa Challenge has been held twelve times, starting in 2004. Following the third match, Syed changed the format to require the software to win two out of three games against each of three players, to reduce the psychological pressure on individual volunteer defenders. Also Syed called for outside sponsorship of the Arimaa Challenge to build a bigger prize fund.\nIn the first five challenge cycles, David Fotland, programmer of Many Faces of Go, won the Arimaa Computer Championship and the right to play for the prize money, only to see his program beaten decisively each year. In 2009 Fotland's program was surpassed by several new programs in the same year, the strongest of which was Clueless by Jeff Bacher. Humanity's margin of dominance over computers appeared to widen each year from 2004 to 2008 as the best human players improved, but the 2009 Arimaa Challenge was more competitive. Clueless became the first bot to win two games of a Challenge match.\n\nIn 2010, Mattias Hultgren's bot Marwin edged out Clueless in the computer championship. In the Challenge match Marwin became the first bot to win two out of three games against a single human defender, and also the first bot to win three of the nine games overall. In 2011, however, Marwin won only one of the nine games, and that one having received a material handicap. In 2012 a new challenger, Briareus, became the first program to defeat a top-ten player, sweeping all three games from the fifth-ranked human. In 2013, however, the humans struck back against Marwin, with #4 and #6 each sweeping including a handicap win, and #31 winning two of three games. In 2014, the computer bounced back to win two games, albeit no matches.\n\nIn 2015, Sharp made a substantial leap in playing strength. After having scored 6-6 in twelve games against its top two computer rivals the previous year, Sharp went undefeated in the computer tournaments of 2015, including 13-0 against the second- and third-place finishers. Sharp dominated the pre-Challenge screening against human opponents, winning 27 of 29 games. In the Challenge itself, Sharp clinched victory in each of the three mini-matches by winning the first six games, finishing 7-2 overall and winning the Arimaa challenge.\n\n was filed on 3 October 2003, and granted on 3 January 2006. Omar Syed also holds a trademark on the name \"Arimaa\".\n\nSyed has stated that he does not intend to restrict noncommercial use and has released a license called \"The Arimaa Public License\" with the declared intent to \"make Arimaa as much of a public domain game as possible while still protecting its commercial usage\". Items covered by the license are the patent and the trademark.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55156185", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55156185", "title": "Boris Gyllenbögel", "text": "Boris Gyllenbögel\n\nKarl Volter Boris Gyllenbögel (30 March 1884 Kauhajoki – 22 June 1948 Helsinki) was a Finnish Colonel, a Diplomat and a principal.\n\nGyllenbögel's parents were the police chief Karl Nathanael Gyllenbögel (1859-1926) and Alma Maria Rosenlund (1864-1941).\n\nGyllenbögel addended the Hamina Cadet School, St Petersburg Artillery Institute and the St Petersburg Academy of War. He served in Russia, among others, as Chief of Staff of the Emperor Nicholas I, as well as in military positions in Latvia and Lithuania. \n\nGyllenbögel, who was promoted to the Russian Imperial Army in 1917, was governor of the county of Uusimaa, but resigned in July 1917 after refusing to abolish parliament on the order of the Russian interim government. \n\nAfter Finland became independent, Gyllenbögel was appointed Finland's Charge d'Affaires to Poland in 1919 and he was then Finland's first Envoy in Warsaw between 1920 and 1921. After that, Gyllenbögel was Finnish Chargé d'Affaires to in Moscow but returned to Finland in 1922 at the request of the Soviet government and Antti Hackzell was appointed to replace him in Moscow.\n\nAfter her diplomatic career, Gyllenbögel then served as Professor at the Helsinki Finnish Private School in 1924-1938 and taught languages at the school.\n\nAccording to Gyllenbögel, the school received the nickname \"Jylla\" and this nickname has survived and its followers until today. The school is nowadays the name of Espoonlahti School and Espoonlahti high school.<\n\nThe younger brother of Gyllenbögel, Evald Alfons Rafael Gyllenbögel (born 1889) was a Counselor who served as Finland's representative at the League of Nations and since 1932 as Head of the Political Department of the Foreign Ministry.\n\n \n"}
{"id": "20449321", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20449321", "title": "Communication apprehension", "text": "Communication apprehension\n\nCommunication apprehension is the level of anxiety triggered by the real or anticipated communication act, as defined by McCroskey. It is connected to the idea of judgment from the audience, and self-image. Communication apprehension, CA, can cause a variety of involuntary responses such as \"stomach butterflies\", shaking, nausea, sweating, forgetting the information, among many others. The term communication apprehension is usually connected with 'stage fright'; however, this response is not necessarily connected with a delivery on a stage or in front of a large audience. This anxiety can be caused by any of the five forms of communication: intrapersonal, interpersonal, group, public, and mass communication.\n\nThere are different types of communication apprehension, each of these types represent a specific or general situation that presents a stimuli for this anxiety response. McCroskey argues that there are four types of communication apprehension:\n\nTrait anxiety is considered a personality type, which represents that the individual has an orientation to feel anxiety during the communication act regardless of the situation, audience or context. This type of people will avoid exposing themselves to a communication situation, since their communication apprehension is part of their daily behavior.\n\nMcCroskey and Beatty argue that some people have a higher vulnerability factor for communication apprehension due to genetics, also known as communibiology. Many researchers oppose this idea and argue that it can not be solely inherited but rather a personality trait acquired; therefore, it can be changed. However, they can compromise that around 80% of communication apprehension is obtained within our neurological structures, which are determined genetically. Furthermore, only 20% is influenced by an environmental stimuli. Meaning that this type of communication apprehension can be improved with practice and other techniques; however, it will not be completely eliminated since it is inherited.\n\nContext anxiety triggers communication apprehension due to a specific context. This is considered a psychological response caused by a specific context but not necessarily on others; a person can have no problem talking to her best friend but can get anxiety while talking in front of a class. The most known example for context anxiety is public speaking; almost 70% of students suffer from a certain level of communication apprehension trigger by public speaking. There are other contexts that can create a similar response such as speaking in front of class, small group discussions, or meetings.\n\nAudience anxiety is when a specific individual or group of people creates a problem on communication, or a reverse reaction. For some people, anxiety can be caused by familiar peers, while for others it can be caused by unfamiliar faces. At the beginning of a speech class, the students tend to be fearful since they see new faces which increases the levels of communication apprehension. However, once the students get to know each other they feel comfortable; decreasing or eliminating their levels of apprehension.\n\nSituational anxiety is a psychological reaction of a person due to a specific situation that may not have any relation with the person or context. This anxiety is triggered by a special combination of audience and context that involves different dimensions and creates a unique scenario. As an example we can see a first date. Although a person may not suffer from communication apprehension; the situation of being with a person that they have feelings for, on a new environment, and being the first time they experience this situation, can increase the stress levels and create communication apprehension.\n\nThe PRCA 10 is a test created to determine the communication shyness of a speaker. This test shows that communication apprehension is not limited to public speaking since it allows you to identify different situations that can trigger anxiety, these situations belong to an apprehension triggered by context, context anxiety. The four situations that are presented on the test are: group discussion, meetings, interpersonal, and public speaking.\n\nThis test provides an easy equation to obtain a score for each category, these scoress are compared to the ranges provided at the end of the test; these ranges were obtained by a study of over 40,000 college students and over 3,000 non-students adults provided on a national sample. By this comparison, the test taker can determine their level of communication apprehension for each scenario, ranking them with a low, moderate or high level of apprehension. The test is able to provide a diagnostic of context anxiety and overall communication apprehension by simply adding the sub scores and comparing the total score.\n"}
{"id": "4548948", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4548948", "title": "Computer-supported collaborative learning", "text": "Computer-supported collaborative learning\n\nComputer-supported collaborative learning (CSCL) is a pedagogical approach where in learning takes place via social interaction using a computer or through the Internet. This kind of learning is characterized by the sharing and construction of knowledge among participants using technology as their primary means of communication or as a common resource. CSCL can be implemented in online and classroom learning environments and can take place synchronously or asynchronously.\n\nThe study of computer-supported collaborative learning draws on a number of academic disciplines, including instructional technology, educational psychology, sociology, cognitive psychology, and social psychology. It is related to collaborative learning and computer supported cooperative work (CSCW).\n\nInteractive computing technology was primarily conceived by academics, but the use of technology in education has historically been defined by contemporary research trends. The earliest instances of software in instruction drilled students using the behaviorist method that was popular throughout the mid-twentieth century. In the 1970s as cognitivism gained traction with educators, designers began to envision learning technology that employed artificial intelligence models that could adapt to individual learners. Computer-supported collaborative learning emerged as a strategy rich with research implications for the growing philosophies of constructivism and social cognitivism.\n\nThough studies in collaborative learning and technology took place throughout the 1980s and 90s, the earliest public workshop directly addressing CSCL was \"Joint Problem Solving and Microcomputers\" which took place in San Diego in 1983. Six years later in 1989, the term \"computer-supported collaborative learning\" was used in a NATO-sponsored workshop in Maratea, Italy. A biannual CSCL conference series began in 1995. At the 2002 and 2003 CSCL conferences, the International Society of the Learning Sciences (ISLS) was established to run the CSCL and ICLS conference series and the \"International Journal of Computer-Supported Collaborative Learning\" (\"ijCSCL\") and JLS journals.\n\nThe \"ijCSCL\" was established by the CSCL research community and ISLS. It began quarterly publication by Springer in 2006. It is peer reviewed and published both online and in print. Since 2009, it has been rated by ISI as being in the top 10% of educational research journals based on its impact factor.\n\nThe rapid development of social media technologies and the increasing need of individuals to understand and use those technologies has brought researchers from many disciplines to the field of CSCL. CSCL is used today in traditional and online schools and knowledge-building communities such as Wikipedia.\n\nThe field of CSCL draws heavily from a number of learning theories that emphasize that knowledge is the result of learners interacting with each other, sharing knowledge, and building knowledge as a group. Since the field focuses on collaborative activity and collaborative learning, it inherently takes much from constructivist and social cognitivist learning theories.\n\nThe roots of collaborative epistemology as related to CSCL can be found in Vygotsky's social learning theory. Of particular importance to CSCL is the theory's notion of internalization, or the idea that knowledge is developed by one's interaction with one's surrounding culture and society. The second key element is what Vygotsky called the Zone of proximal development. This refers to a range of tasks that can be too difficult for a learner to master by themselves but is made possible with the assistance of a more skilled individual or teacher. These ideas feed into a notion central to CSCL: knowledge building is achieved through interaction with others.\n\nCooperative learning, though different in some ways from collaborative learning, also contributes to the success of teams in CSCL environments. The distinction can be stated as: cooperative learning focuses on the effects of group interaction on individual learning whereas collaborative learning is more concerned with the cognitive processes at the group unit of analysis such as shared meaning making and the joint problem space. The five elements for effective cooperative groups identified by the work of Johnson and Johnson are positive interdependence, individual accountability, promotive interaction, social skills, and group processing. Because of the inherent relationship between cooperation and collaboration, understanding what encourages successful cooperation is essential to CSCL research.\n\nIn the late 1980s and early 1990s, Marlene Scardamalia and Carl Bereiter wrote seminal articles leading to the development of key CSCL concepts: knowledge-building communities and knowledge-building discourse, intentional learning, and expert processes. Their work led to an early collaboration-enabling technology known as the Computer Supported Intentional Learning Environment (CSILE). Characteristically for CSCL, their theories were integrated with the design, deployment, and study of the CSCL technology. CSILE later became Knowledge Forum, which is the most widely used CSCL technology worldwide to date.\n\nOther learning theories that provide a foundation for CSCL include distributed cognition, problem-based learning, group cognition, cognitive apprenticeship, and situated learning. Each of these learning theories focuses on the social aspect of learning and knowledge building, and recognizes that learning and knowledge building involve inter-personal activities including conversation, argument, and negotiation.\n\nOnly in the last 15 to 20 years have researchers begun to explore the extent to which computer technology could enhance the collaborative learning process. While researchers, in general, have relied on learning theories developed without consideration of computer-support, some have suggested that the field needs to have a theory tailored and refined for the unique challenges that confront those trying to understand the complex interplay of technology and collaborative learning.\n\nCollaboration theory, suggested as a system of analysis for CSCL by Gerry Stahl in 2002-2006, postulates that knowledge is constructed in social interactions such as discourse. The theory suggests that learning is not a matter of accepting fixed facts, but is the dynamic, on-going, and evolving result of complex interactions primarily taking place within communities of people. It also emphasizes that collaborative learning is a process of constructing meaning and that meaning creation most often takes place and can be observed at the group unit of analysis. The goal of collaboration theory is to develop an understanding of how meaning is collaboratively constructed, preserved, and re-learned through the media of language and artifacts in group interaction. There are four crucial themes in collaboration theory: collaborative knowledge building (which is seen as a more concrete term than \"learning\"); group and personal perspectives intertwining to create group understanding; mediation by artifacts (or the use of resources which learners can share or imprint meaning on); and interaction analysis using captured examples that can be analyzed as proof that the knowledge building occurred.\n\nCollaboration theory proposes that technology in support of CSCL should provide new types of media that foster the building of collaborative knowing; facilitate the comparison of knowledge built by different types and sizes of groups; and help collaborative groups with the act of negotiating the knowledge they are building. Further, these technologies and designs should strive to remove the teacher as the bottleneck in the communication process. In other words, the teacher should not have to act as the conduit for communication between students or as the avenue by which information is dispensed. Finally, collaboration theory-influenced technologies will strive to increase the quantity and quality of learning moments via computer-simulated situations.\n\nStahl extended his proposals about collaboration theory during the next decade with his research on group cognition . In his book on \"Group Cognition\", he provided a number of case studies of prototypes of collaboration technology, as well as a sample in-depth interaction analysis and several essays on theoretical issues related to re-conceptualizing cognition at the small-group unit of analysis. He then launched the Virtual Math Teams project at the Math Forum, which conducted more than 10 years of studies of students exploring mathematical topics collaboratively online. \"Studying VMT\" documented many issues of design, analysis and theory related to this project. The VMT later focused on supporting dynamic geometry by integrating a multi-user version of GeoGebra. All aspects of this phase of the VMT project were described in \"Translating Euclid.\" Finally, \"Constructing Dynamic Triangles Together\" provided a detailed analysis of how a group of four girls learned about dynamic geometry by enacting a series of group practices during an eight-session longitudinal case study. The VMT project generated and analyzed data at the small-group unit of analysis, to substantiate and refine the theory of group cognition and to offer a model of design-based CSCL research.\n\nCurrently, CSCL is used in instructional plans in classrooms both traditional and online from primary school to post-graduate institutions. Like any other instructional activity, it has its own prescribed practices and strategies which educators are encouraged to employ in order to use it effectively. Because its use is so widespread, there are innumerable scenarios in the use of CSCL, but there are several common strategies that provide a foundation for group cognition.\n\nOne of the most common approaches to CSCL is collaborative writing. Though the final product can be anything from a research paper, a Wikipedia entry, or a short story, the process of planning and writing together encourages students to express their ideas and develop a group understanding of the subject matter. Tools like blogs, interactive whiteboards, and custom spaces that combine free writing with communication tools can be used to share work, form ideas, and write synchronously.\n\nTechnology-mediated discourse refers to debates, discussions, and other social learning techniques involving the examination of a theme using technology. For example, wikis are a way to encourage discussion among learners, but other common tools include mind maps, survey systems, and simple message boards. Like collaborative writing, technology-mediated discourse allows participants that may be separated by time and distance to engage in conversations and build knowledge together.\n\nGroup exploration refers to the shared discovery of a place, activity, environment or topic among two or more people. Students do their exploring in an online environment, use technology to better understand a physical area, or reflect on their experiences together through the Internet. Virtual worlds like Second Life and Whyville as well as synchronous communication tools like Skype may be used for this kind of learning.\n\nProblem-based learning is a popular instructional activity that lends itself well to CSCL because of the social implications of problem solving. Complex problems call for rich group interplay that encourages collaboration and creates movement toward a clear goal.\n\nProject-based learning is similar to problem-based learning in that it creates impetus to establish team roles and set goals. The need for collaboration is also essential for any project and encourages team members to build experience and knowledge together. Although there are many advantages to using software that has been specifically developed to support collaborative learning or project-based learning in a particular domain, any file sharing or communication tools can be used to facilitate CSCL in problem- or project-based environments.\n\nWhen Web 2.0 applications (wikies, blogs, RSS feed, collaborative writing, video sharing, social networks, etc.) are used for computer-supported collaborative learning specific strategies should be used for their implementation, especially regarding (1) adoption by teachers and students; (2) usability and quality in use issues; (3) technology maintenance; (4) pedagogy and instructional design; (5) social interaction between students; (6) privacy issues; and (7) information/system security.\n\nThough the focus in CSCL is on individuals collaborating with their peers, teachers still have a vital role in facilitating learning. Most obviously, the instructor must introduce the CSCL activity in a thoughtful way that contributes to an overarching design plan for the course. The design should clearly define the learning outcomes and assessments for the activity. In order to assure that learners are aware of these objectives and that they are eventually met, proper administration of both resources and expectations is necessary to avoid learner overload. Once the activity has begun, the teacher is charged with kick-starting and monitoring discussion to facilitate learning. He or she must also be able to mitigate technical issues for the class. Lastly, the instructor must engage in assessment, in whatever form the design calls for, in order to ensure objectives have been met for all students.\n\nWithout the proper structure, any CSCL strategy can lose its effectiveness. It is the responsibility of the teacher to make students aware of what their goals are, how they should be interacting, potential technological concerns, and the time-frame for the exercise. This framework should enhance the experience for learners by supporting collaboration and creating opportunities for the construction of knowledge. Another important consideration of educators who implement online learning environments is affordance. Students who are already comfortable with online communication often choose to interact casually. Mediators should pay special attention to make students aware of their expectations for formality online. While students sometime have frames of reference for online communication, they often do not have all of the skills necessary to solve problems by themselves. Ideally, teachers provide what is called \"scaffolding\", a platform of knowledge that they can build on. A unique benefit of CSCL is that, given proper teacher facilitation, students can use technology to build learning foundations with their peers. This allows instructors to gauge the difficulty of the tasks presented and make informed decisions about the extent of the scaffolding needed.\n\nAccording to Salomon (1995), the possibility of intellectual partnerships with both peers and advanced information technology has changed the criteria for what is counted to be the effects of technology. Instead of only concentrating on the amount and quality of learning outcomes, we need to distinguish between two kinds of effects: that is, \"effects with a tool and/or collaborating peers, and effects of these.\" He used the term called \"effects with\" which is to describe the changes that take place while one is engaged in intellectual partnership with peers or with a computer tool. For example, the changed quality of problem solving in a team. And he means the word \"effects of\" more lasting changes that take place when computer-enhanced collaboration teaches students to ask more exact and explicit questions even when not using that system.\n\nIt has a number of implications for instructional designers, developers, and teachers.\n\nThough CSCL holds promise for enhancing education, it is not without barriers or challenges to successful implementation. Obviously, students or participants need sufficient access to computer technology. Though access to computers has improved in the last 15 to 20 years, teacher attitudes about technology and sufficient access to Internet-connected computers continue to be barriers to more widespread usage of CSCL pedagogy.\n\nFurthermore, instructors find that the time needed to monitor student discourse and review, comment on, and grade student products can be more demanding than what is necessary for traditional face-to-face classrooms. The teacher or professor also has an instructional decision to make regarding the complexity of the problem presented. To warrant collaborative work, the problem must be of sufficient complexity, otherwise teamwork is unnecessary. Also, there is risk in assuming that students instinctively know how to work collaboratively. Though the task may be collaborative by nature, students may still need training on how to work in a truly cooperative process.\n\nOthers have noted a concern with the concept of scripting as it pertains to CSCL. There is an issue with possibly over-scripting the CSCL experience and in so doing, creating \"fake collaboration\". Such over-scripted collaboration may fail to trigger the social, cognitive, and emotional mechanisms that are necessary to true collaborative learning.\n\nThere is also the concern that the mere availability of the technology tools can create problems. Instructors may be tempted to apply technology to a learning activity that can very adequately be handled without the intervention or support of computers. In the process of students and teachers learning how to use the \"user-friendly\" technology, they never get to the act of collaboration. As a result, computers become an obstacle to collaboration rather than a supporter of it.\n\nThe advent of computer-supported collaborative learning (CSCL) as an instructional strategy for second language acquisition can be traced back to the 1990s. During that time, the internet was growing rapidly, which was one of the key factors that facilitated the process. At the time, the first wikis (such as WikiWikiWeb) were still undergoing early development, but the use of other tools such as electronic discussion groups allowed for equal participation amongst peers, particularly benefiting those who would normally not participate otherwise during face-to-face interactions.\n\nDuring the establishment of wikis in the 2000s, global research began to emerge regarding their effectiveness in promoting second language acquisition. Some of this research focused on more specific areas such as systemic-functional linguistics, humanistic education, experiental learning, and psycholinguistics. For example, in 2009 Yu-Ching Chen performed a study to determine the overall effectiveness of wikis in an English as a second language class in Taiwan. Another example is a 2009 study by Greg Kessler in which pre-service, non-native English speaker teachers in a Mexican university were given the task to collaborate on a wiki, which served as the final product for one of their courses. In this study, emphasis was placed on the level of grammatical accuracy achieved by the students throughout the course of the task.\n\nDue to the continual development of technology, other educational tools aside from wikis are being implemented and studied to determine their potential in scaffolding second language acquisition. According to Mark Warschauer (2010), among these are blogs, automated writing evaluation systems, and open-source netbooks. \"Ex situ\" of the classroom, the development of other recent online tools such as Livemocha (2007) have facilitated language acquisition via member-to-member interactions, demonstrating firsthand the impact the advancement of technology has made towards meeting the varying needs of language learners.\n\nStudies in the field of computer-assisted language learning (CALL) have shown that computers provide material and valuable feedback for language learners and that computers can be a positive tool for both individual and collaborative language learning. CALL programs offer the potential for interactions between the language learners and the computer. Additionally, students' autonomous language learning and self-assessment can be made widely available through the web. In CSCL, the computer is not only seen as a potential language tutor by providing assessment for students' responses, but also as a tool to give language learners the opportunity to learn from the computer and also via collaboration with other language learners. Juan focuses on new models and systems that perform efficient evaluation of student activity in online-based education. Their findings indicate that CSCL environments organized by teachers are useful for students to develop their language skills. Additionally, CSCL increases students' confidence and encourages them to maintain active learning, reducing the passive reliance on teachers' feedback. Using CSCL as a tool in the second language learning classroom has also shown to reduce learner anxiety.\n\nVarious case studies and projects had been conducted in order to measure the effectiveness and perception of CSCL in a language learning classroom. After a collaborative internet-based project, language learners indicated that their confidence in using the language had increased and that they felt more motivated to learn and use the target language. After analyzing student questionnaires, discussion board entries, final project reports, and student journals, Dooly suggests that during computer supported collaborative language learning, students have an increased awareness of different aspects of the target language and pay increased attention to their own language learning process. Since the participants of her project were language teacher trainees, she adds that they felt prepared and willing to incorporate online interaction in their own teaching in the future.\n\nCulture may be thought of as composed of \"beliefs, norms, assumptions, knowledge, values, or sets of practice that are shared and form a system\". Learning communities focused in whole or part on second language acquisition may often be distinctly multicultural in composition, and as the cultural background of individual learners affects their collaborative norms and practices, this can significantly impact their ability to learn in a CSCL environment.\n\nCSCL environments are generally valued for the potential to promote collaboration in cross-cultural learning communities. Based on social constructivist views of learning, many CSCL environments fundamentally emphasize learning as the co-construction of knowledge through the computer-mediated interaction of multivoiced community members. Computer-mediation of the learning process has been found to afford consideration of alternative viewpoints in multicultural/multilingual learning communities. When compared to traditional face-to-face environments, computer-mediated learning environments have been shown to result in more equal levels of participation for ESL students in courses with native English speakers. Language barriers for non-native speakers tend to detract from equal participation in general, and this can be alleviated to some extent through the use of technologies which support asynchronous modes of written communication.\n\nOnline learning environments however tend to reflect the cultural, epistemological, and pedagogical goals and assumptions of their designers. In computer-supported collaborative learning environments, there is evidence that cultural background may impact learner motivation, attitude towards learning and e-learning, learning preference (style), computer usage, learning behavior and strategies, academic achievement, communication, participation, knowledge transfer, sharing and collaborative learning. Studies variously comparing Asian, American and Danish and Finnish learners have suggested that learners from different cultures exhibit different interaction patterns with their peers and teachers in online. A number of studies have shown that difference in Eastern and Western educational cultures, for instance, which are found in traditional environments are also present in online environments. Zhang has described Eastern education as more group-based, teacher-dominated, centrally organized, and examination-oriented than Western approaches. Students who have learned to learn in an Eastern context emphasizing teacher authority and standardized examinations may perform differently in a CSCL environment characterized by peer critique and co-construction of educational artifacts as the primary mode of assessment.\n\nA \"multiple cultural model\" of instructional design emphasizes variability and flexibility in the process of designing for multicultural inclusiveness, focusing on the development of learning environments reflecting the multicultural realities of society, include multiple ways of teaching and learning, and promote equity of outcomes. McLoughlin, C. & Oliver propose a social, constructivist approach to the design of culturally-sensitive CSCL environments which emphasizes flexibility with regard to specific learning tasks, tools, roles, responsibilities, communication strategies, social interactions, learning goals and modes of assessment [B5]. Constructivist instructional design approaches such as R2D2 which emphasize reflexive, recursive, participatory design of learning experiences may be employed in developing CSCL which authentically engages learners from diverse linguistic and cultural backgrounds.\n\nDyslexia primarily involves difficulties with reading, spelling and sentence structure, transposition, memory, organization and time management, and lack of confidence. Dyslexia has in the past two decades become increasingly present in research and legislation. The United Kingdom passed the Disability Discrimination Act 1995 in which institutions were required to “reasonably adjust” instruction for students with disabilities, particularly physical and sensory disabilities; in 2002, the Special Education Needs and Disabilities Act adjusted the legislation to include learning disabilities.\nThe Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (ADA) established that all students with disabilities must be included in all state and districtwide assessments of student progress. The ADA also guarantees equal accommodation for the disabled in, “employment, public accommodations, state and local government services, transportation, and telecommunications.”\nIn recent years, tools such as WebHelpDyslexia and other capabilities of web applications have increased the availability of tools to provide coping skills for students with dyslexia.\n\nIn 2006, Woodfine argued that dyslexia can impact the ability of a student to participate in synchronous e-learning environments, especially if activities being completed are text-based. During experimental qualitative research, Woodfine found that data suggested “learners with dyslexia might suffer from embarrassment, shame and even guilt about their ability to interact with other learners when in a synchronous environment.”\nIn a study by Fichten et al., it was found that assistive technology can be beneficial in aiding students with the progression of their reading and writing skills. Tools such as spell check or text-to-speech can be helpful to learners with dyslexia by allowing them to focus more on self-expression and less on errors.\n\nAlsobhi, et al., examined assistive technologies for dyslexic students and concluded that the most fundamental considerations to be had when serving students of this population are: “the learning styles that people with dyslexia exhibit, and how assistive technology can be adapted to align with these learning behaviors.”\nThe Dyslexia Adaptive E-Learning (DAEL) is a suggested a framework that proposes four dimensions that cover 26 attributes. The proposed framework asks educators to make decisions based on perceived ease of use, perceived usefulness, and system adaptability:\n\nEducators that choose to use the CSCL environment must be aware of 508 compliance and its legal implications. “In the U.S., the criteria for designing Web pages accessibly are provided by two major sets: the W3C’s Web Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) and the design standards issued under U.S. federal law, Section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act, as amended in 1998.1 Features of accessible design include, among others, the provision of ALT tags for nontextual elements, such as images, animations and image map hot spots; meaningful link text; logical and persistent page organization, and the inclusion of skip navigation links.\"\nUnfortunately, not all educators are exposed to these guidelines, especially if their collegiate programs do not provide exposure to the use of computers, aspects of web design or technology in education. In some cases, it may be advantageous for the educator to collaborate with an instructional technologist or web designer to ensure 508 guidelines are addressed in the desired learning environment for the CSCL.\n\nThe World Wide Web began as information sharing on static webpages accessible on a computer through the use of a web browser. As more interactive capabilities were added, it evolved into Web 2.0, which allowed for user-generated content and participation (e.g. social networking). This opened up many new possibilities for computer-supported collaborative learning (CSCL) using the Internet. The internet is now entering a new phase, Web 3.0 or the Semantic Web, which is characterized by the greater interconnectivity of machine-readable data from many different sources. New intelligent technology applications will be able to manage, organize and create meaning from this data, which will have a significant impact on CSCL.\n\nThe interconnectivity of machine-readable data with semantic tags means that searches will be greatly enhanced. Search results will be more relevant, recommendations of resources will be made based on search terms and results will include multimedia content.\n\nNew Web 3.0 capabilities for learners include enhanced tools for managing learning, allowing them to self-regulate and co-regulate learning without the assistance of an instructor. Through the use of Web 3.0, groups and communities can be formed according to specific criteria without human input. These communities and groups can provide support to new learners and give experts an opportunity to share their knowledge.\n\nTeachers can benefit from these same capabilities to manage their teaching. In addition, the software for Web 3.0 collaboration will include using data from group communications, which then generates how much each individual has collaborated based on how often they communicate and how long their messages are.\n\nMaking data machine-readable is leading to the development of virtual assistants and intelligent agents. These are tools which can access data on a user's behalf and will be able to assist learners and collaborators in several ways. They can provide personalized and customized search results by accessing data on a variety of platforms, recommend resources based on user information and preferences, manage administrative tasks, communicate with other agents and databases, and help organize information and interactions with collaborators.\n\nVirtual learning communities are cyberspaces that allow for individual and collaborative learning to take place. While they exist today, with Web 3.0 they will gain enhanced features enabling more collaborative learning to take place. Some describe them as evolving out of existing learning management systems (LMSs), adding intelligent agents and virtual assistants that can enhance content searches and deal with administrative and communication tasks, or enabling different LMSs around the world to communicate with each other, creating an even larger community to share resources and locate potential collaborators. Virtual learning communities will also enable different types of peer-to-peer interaction and resource sharing to support co-construction of knowledge. These communities may also include some aspects of 3D gaming and VR.\n\nThrough the use of 3D gaming, users can simulate lives of others while providing their knowledge throughout the 3D environment as an avatar. These 3D environments also foster simulation and scenario building for places where users would otherwise not have access. The 3D environments facilitate online knowledge building communities. Non-immersive environments are environments in which not all five senses are used but still allows users to interact in virtual worlds. Virtual Reality (VR) headsets are sometimes used to give users a full immersion experience, into these 3D virtual worlds. This allows users to interact with each other in real time and simulate different learning situations with other users. These learning experiences and environments vary between fields and learning goals. Certain virtual reality headsets allow users to communicate with each other while being in different physical locations.\n\nMultimodal literacy is the way processes of literacy - reading, writing, talking, listening and viewing - are occurring within and around new communication media. (Kress & Jewitt, 2003; Pahl & Rowsell, 2005; Walsh, 2008) It refers to meaning-making that occurs through the reading, viewing, understanding, responding to and producing and interacting with multimedia and digital texts. (Walsh, 2010)\n\nOnline forums offer numerous advantages for both teacher and students for collaborative learning online. Discussion forums provide a wider platform to exchange information and ideas, to develop writing and reading skills, critical thinking skills. (Jill Margerison, 2013) A collaborative online forum can also help students learn about the unique challenges of online communication, especially the need for clarity and the dangers of sarcasm. (Susan Martens-Baker, 2009) For the teacher, they offer a flexible platform from which to educate in a participatory culture, where teachers and students can interact with each other and create new knowledge. (Jill Margerison, 2013)\n\nVideo games were designed as a learning tool engaged learners who advance through experimentation, critical thinking and practice in the virtual world. (Abrams, 2009) Video games in CSCL can promote positive interdependence, individual accountability, face-to-face promotive interaction, social skills, and group processing abilities in the ELA classroom. Through interactions in the virtual world, learners have the opportunities to establish their presence, identity and create meanings for their lives.\n\nDigital storytelling refers to integrating a variety of means, such as images, audio, video, graphics and diagram to personal narratives and crafts. Four skill competencies: reading, writing, speaking, and listening would be enhanced by producing digital products. (Brenner, 2014) Students have a greater sense of autonomy, agency through the digital storytelling in CSCL.\n\nOnline forums provide opportunities for young people to engage in the self-exposition as they practice digital literacies and hone the skill of movement across multiple literacies, languages and subject positions. Meanwhile, identity is a constellation of the multiple communities. It is also important to emphasize the potentially harmful cultural discourses that occur within young people's consumption. (Kim, 2015)\n\nThrough capitalizing on students’ gaming experiences by recognizing how they apply to the subject at hand, teachers can highlight the benefits of virtual learning environments and draw upon students’ gaming experiences to understand their application of virtual learning across curricula. Educators need to choose the appropriate game for the particular subject to endorse their instruction and promote collaboration among students.\n\nStudents who engage in collaborative learning for creating digital production show the characteristics of leadership. Moreover, students would gain the experience of collaboration and expand their skill of the multimodal literacy. In addition, digital composition provides a meaningful tool for teachers to assess. (Brenner, 2014)\n\nMultimodal literacy can facilitate English learners’ literacy learning. It has provided opportunities for English learners to expand the interpretation of texts. (Ajayi, 2009) Specifically, English language learners can increase their language ability through computer-collaborative learning. \nThe multimodality platforms provide students, especially ELLs with an anxiety-free zone to collaborate with their peers in a virtual world in order to make meanings together. Technology self-efficacy increases ELLs’ level of independence and reduces their level of anxiety. (Mellati, Zangoei & Khademi, 2015) ELLs will have more motivation and self-confident while participating in online group projects to make contributions and share knowledge with their peers. As a result of collaborative learning, ELLs would expand their vocabulary, gain advanced and more academic grammars.\n\nThe applications of CSCL in post-secondary education demonstrate positive impacts on students’ learning such as promoting learner interaction, motivation and understanding. As collaborative learning is grounded in social constructivism, the interaction and collaboration during learning is valued.\n\nThere's research findings that shows online students had higher scores than face-to-face students in professional competence acquisition test, showing the effectiveness of CSCL in promoting the development of professional skills\n\nKnowledge co-construction among geographically dispersed students in an online postgraduate program was explained in a study as students relied heavily on each other for their on-going participation in the online discussions and joint refinement of ideas introduced.\n\nThe design principles for using CSCL can be considered from different perspectives. For technical use, instructors need to provide tutorials and online training modules to students. For collaboration, students need time to plan and coordinate group work as well as instructors’ support and guidance on the discussions. Also, group size and composition should be taken into consideration for better quality of interaction. More instructional strategies are presented below.\n\nWikis is a tool for learners to co-construct knowledge online with the access to create and edit contents. There are three phases of using wikis for collaborative writing:\n\nPhase 1. Crisis of Authority\n\nUsers experience challenges due to unfamiliarity with the use of wiki and the unknown of other teammates’ boundaries of being commented or revised on their writings.\n\nPhase 2. Crisis of Relationship\n\nCollaborative learning emerges and group communication is improved.\n\nPhase 3. Resolution of Crisis\n\nMore frequent communication occurs and increased co-writing among team members.\n\nTo better design wiki-based project, the design principles design include:\n\n1. Provide learners with a practice article to edit at the beginning of a course for getting familiar with using wikis\n\n2. Informs learners of different communication tools to work collaboratively.\n\n3. Engage learners with repeated wiki article assignments.\n\n4. Provide timely feedback on students’ discussion, participation and interaction.\n\nThe characteristic of social interaction in CSCL can be demonstrated on the online learning community where learners can communicate with each other. One of the medium facilitating the online community to work is online learning management system that provides all people including learners, professors, and administrative staff to communicate.\n\nWhen using an online learning management system for collaborative learning, the instructor should provide technical training by presenting video tutorials, online training modules or online workshops\n\nMobile CSCL (mCSCL) is beneficial to students’ learning achievements, attitude and interactions. The suggested design principles for mCSCL include:\n\n1. An idea group size is around 3 to 4 people.\n\n2. A duration between 1 and 4 weeks demonstrate better effects\n\nProfessional teacher communities are positively related to student learning, teacher learning, teacher practice and school culture. Teacher collaboration is a significant element of these communities. Reflection‐oriented tasks (such as reflection on teaching performance in individual writing, peer feedback, and collective writing) stimulated participation, and in combination with task structure also interaction in these communities. Furthermore, structured tasks(such as crossword puzzles, the path to come to a solution is unambiguous and answers can be immediately checked) which required critical reflection on personal experiences and perspectives triggered task‐related communication and a deep level of information exchange.\n\nThe European Union Comenius fund sponsored FISTE project which is concerned with the educational use of information and communication technologies (ICTs), specifically with the development and dissemination of a new pedagogical strategy for distance learning through in-service teacher education in schools across Europe. This project uses the online Virtual Learning Environment platform BSCW as a Computer Supportive Communication Learning tool to facilitate the way the participants work together. This work has involved schools and teacher training providers, building culturally different work in in-service teacher education in the participating countries. The value of using CSCL supported technology for in-service teacher education in Europe lies in the concept of hinterland. Cross-national courses like the FISTE would be difficult to run without this technological approach.\n\n"}
{"id": "27143710", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27143710", "title": "Cultural contracts", "text": "Cultural contracts\n\nCultural contracts refer to the degree that cultural values are exchanged between groups. It extends identity negotiation theory and uncertainty reduction theory by focusing defining the negotiation experience from the perspective of minority groups when dealing with majority cultural norms. Cultural contracts theory was developed in 1999 by Dr. Ronald L. Jackson, an identity scholar and a professor in media and cinema studies at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign.\n\nCultural contracts first appeared in Communication Quarterly in 1999. The theory is inspired by Ting-Toomey's (1986) identity validation model (IDM) that emerged from a study of European American and African American communication experiences. Both theories are rooted in the exchanges between strangers as described in Berger and Calabrese's (1975) uncertainty reduction theory. Cultural contracts focuses specifically on the exchanges between traditionally marginalized groups and majority groups in power in American society from the standpoint of the minority member. The theory is not limited to oral communication. Any value that makes up an individual's worldview, including behavior and other cultural norms, can be negotiated and subjected to a cultural contract.\n\nCultural contracts suggests that mainstream and marginalized identities are in natural conflict. In order to achieve communication, individuals must decide how much of their values will be negotiated. This results in one of three contracts by the minority identity: ready-to-sign contracts (assimilating to mainstream values); quasi-completed contracts (adapting marginalized values to accommodate mainstream values); and co-completed contracts (validating both mainstream and marginalized values). Most individuals are not aware that they create or sign cultural contracts.\n\nEach contract is a “result of how identities have been personally and socially constructed and exposed.\" The first contract is a ready-to-sign contract, or assimilation, which occurs when individuals replace their culture identity for the dominant culture. This contract can be temporary or long-term and benefits the majority. There is no room for negotiating marginalized identity with mainstream ideals in this contract with no perceived benefit to the marginalized group.Quasi-completed contracts (adaptation) result in temporarily incorporating a small part of an individual's value to the mainstream value, and vice versa. This is usually a short-term contract since neither identity is dominant in this interaction. Lastly, co-completed contracts (mutual validation) result in blending values together. Cultural differences are acknowledged and valued in this contract. In certain instance, values are deeply penetrated and are not up for exchange. Others are more surface and the perceived benefits of the contract do not conflict with our core identity. This will determine if an individual is willing to sign a cultural contract or remain in conflict. The contracts can be signed one or two ways: the signee perceives a benefit in accommodating or assimilating, or the signee is forced to accommodate or assimilate.\n\nApplications. In addition to identity research, cultural contracts theory has been used in higher education scholarship to explore the relationships between White students and African American faculty The theory has also been used to explore the cultural contracts African American women sign in their beauty and hair choices.\n"}
{"id": "5775529", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5775529", "title": "Educational attainment", "text": "Educational attainment\n\nEducational attainment is a term commonly used by statisticians to refer to the highest degree of education an individual has completed as defined by the US Census Bureau Glossary.\n\n"}
{"id": "26198554", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26198554", "title": "Efficient use of our resources", "text": "Efficient use of our resources\n\nEfficient Use of Our Resources was the second international workshop organized by NEECIST / EESTEC JLC Lisbon, a non-profit electrical engineering student association of IST/UTL (Technical University of Lisbon). This event was held in Lisbon and Alentejo during the days 24 to 30 August 2009.\n\nThe event consisted of a seven days long workshop, taking place in Portugal, under the subject of “Efficient Use Of Our Resources”. Aiming the exploration of the modern energy saving technologies used in Portugal and the new and renewable ways of energy production, as well as the needs of the future, this workshop will allow the participants to share different scientific and cultural points of view and to learn how they can contribute to the efficient usage of natural resources as engineering students.\n\nThe event was supported by JLC Lisbon, NEECIST, SECIL, Junta de Freguesia São João de Deus, Universidade Técnica de Lisboa, Junta de Freguesia São João de Brito, Junta de Santo Estêvão, Junta de Freguesia de Santa Justa, OservIt, AEIST and Instituto Superior Técnico.\n\nIn this event 16 Electrical Engineering and Computer Science students were invited from several countries from all around Europe:\nChristina Koutsouba and Michalis Malafekas from Athens, Gergely János from Budapest, Mustafa Gurgen Demirag from London, Nikola Risteski from Maribor, Oksana Skorobogaca from Riga, Irina Trajanoska from Skopje, Matthias Egli from Zurich, Dalibor Jelaca and Jelena Matovina from Zagreb, Sofija Puric, Drazen Draskovic and Iva Lazovic from Belgrade and Elena Diaconescu from Bucharest.\n\nEfficient Use of Our Resources was the second international workshop organized by JLC Lisbon, dated August 2009. In this event the organization tried to apply to youthinaction European program, the initial aim of the activities were adapted to the requirements of this program. We decided to keep most of those activities as they were planned initially so the academic part of the event was mostly based on visits to the companies related to the event's subjects (renewable energies, sustainable architecture and recycling). The event had two parts (the same happened in our first event, 2007 Power Your Future) the first 3 nights were in Lisbon and the rest of the days were in Alentejo (south to Lisbon).\n\nIn Lisbon the participants stayed in the university (Technical University of Lisbon) residence located in the center of Lisbon. There was sightseeing on the first day to Belém with a city rally in the afternoon. At night participants had a dinner in a great restaurant in Alfama (an old typical location from Lisbon) after a small sightseeing there. This dinner had the presence of Fado singers and everyone experienced the listening of this Portuguese music genre in a typical atmosphere. The next day participants visited INETI (research and development building featuring sustainable architecture) and ValorSul (recycling center). At night there was another great dinner featuring Fado near Rossio, another typical location from Lisbon.\n\nDuring the trip to Alentejo participants had a chance to visit SECIL (concrete company, EUOOR sponsor) and cross the Sado river in a ferry boat. In Alentejo the participants stayed in the house of one of the organizers featuring a swim pool and good location, near to the beach. The temperature was around 37–40°, was great for using the swim poll and going to the beach. There was a visit to Amareleja solar field and Alqueva dam. At night dinners were in the house as well the social activities. The international day featured a big table full of food and drinks from different parts of Europe, the participants had exposed their great cooking skills and everyone exchanged good feelings and tastes. During the Alentejo stay there was also time to build a solar cooker made of simple materials.\n\nIn the end (which, unfortunately is always part of the good things) there was a dinner in a beach restaurant before the farewell party in the Alentejo house where participants gave their presents to the organizers and exchanged some personal thoughts about the event.\n"}
{"id": "9422005", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9422005", "title": "Eva-Lena Lundgren", "text": "Eva-Lena Lundgren\n\nEva-Lena Lundgren (born 1961) is a Swedish model, and a former Miss Sweden 1981.\nLater in 1981 she finished in third place at the Miss Universe 1981 pageant and fourth place at Miss Europe. Lundgren was awarded the Miss Scandinavia crown the same year in Helsinki, Finland.\n\nShe later became Eva-Lena Pilotti. , she was a Montessori Latin and Greek teacher in Amsterdam, Netherlands, and had three children.\n"}
{"id": "11001870", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11001870", "title": "Evans Brothers Limited", "text": "Evans Brothers Limited\n\nEvans Brothers (Nigeria Publishers) Limited is a Nigerian educational publisher. The company was incorporated in December 1966, and it publishes titles for all levels of education.\n"}
{"id": "55851783", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55851783", "title": "France Université Numérique", "text": "France Université Numérique\n\nFrance université numérique (FUN) is the French national platform to promote the use of massive open online courses (MOOCs).\n\nThe portal is supported by the American open edX open source platform, and supported by Google since September 2013. The audiovisual content is hosted on Amazon Web Services servers.\n\nAt its launch, the platform was endowed by the government, a budget of eight million euros.\n\nThere are 39 categories available on the platform. A MOOC may overlap multiple categories.\n"}
{"id": "55756017", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55756017", "title": "George Edward Tait", "text": "George Edward Tait\n\nGeorge Edward Tait (December 29, 1943 – November 5, 2017) was an African American poet, writer, educator, storyteller, journalist, activist, historian, public speaker, tutor, bandleader, musician, and performer. He was known as the Poet Laureate of Harlem, and a part of the Black Arts Movement. He was the author of At Arms and The Baker's Dozen: Selected Dance Poems. He spearheaded a musical poetry group called Black Massical Music from 1972 to 1977. He founded The Society of Afrikan Poets. His definition of music is the poetry of sound. \nHe passed away on November 5, 2017.\nTait has been writing and teaching for over thirty five years, and known for having poetry readings and workshops. He taught at writing at universities, juvenile detention centers, senior centers, community centers, libraries and theaters. \nHe is the author of the Black Brigade. George Edward Tait was secretary of the Afrikan Nationalist Pioneer Movement which was founded by Carlos A. Cooks.\n\nGeorge E. Tait was born in Oakland, California. He was raised in Harlem, New York City.\n\nEdward Tait graduated from Pace University in 1968 with a B.A. in English. He minored in French and literature. He was a member of the Pace University literary society and the Pace Press. He was an English teacher at Queens College, in Queens (New York City) \nHe is the author of Sword Songs: Selected Poetry published in 2010. \nIn 1975, he founded The Society of Afrikan Poets. Which produced a seven-year Wednesday series of weekly poetry readings entitled Black Words. The series lasted till 1982. The series featured well known activists, artists, poets, and scholars; such as Jayne Cortez, Amiri Baraka, Elombe Brath, Abbey Lincoln (her adopted name Aminata Moseka), Abiodun Oyewole, Black Rose, Abiola Sinclair, Queen Mother Moore, Sekou Sundiata, John Watusi Branch, David Nelson The Last Poets, Abiodun Oyewole,Cheryl Byron, Sonia Sanchez, Quincy Troupe, Preston Wilcox, Carlos Russell, Queen Mother Moore, Louis Reyes Rivera, Rosemari Mealy, Dr. Lonnetta Marie Taylor-Gaines, Leon Thomas, Ruth Garnett, Duma Ndlovu, Jemisi Obanjoko, Ron Welburn.\n\nEdward Tait was Poet Laureate of The Black Nation by the Republic of New Afrika, \nPoet Laureate of Harlem, Poet-in-Residence of Langston Hughes Library Community Library and Cultural Center, Poet Laureate of the National Conference of Artists, Poet Laureate of the School of African Philosophy, Poet-in-Residence of the Genesis II Museum of International Black Culture, and Resident Poet of Attitude - The Dancer's Magazine. \nIn 1982 two of his poems were published in Steppingstones: A Literary Anthology Toward Liberation, edited by James B. Gwynne.\nHe taught at Malcolm-King College in New York City from 1981 to 1986. While at Malcolm-King College he published his first volume of poetry 'At War', in 1983.\n\nIn 1990 George Tait was one of the organizers in Brooklyn's Crown Heights boycott of two Korean produce stores known as Family Red Apple boycott, and boycotts in Harlem. Tait was a part of the \"Buy Black Campaign\".\n\nIn 2001, he was a contributing writer to the anthology Bum Rush The Page: A Def Poetry Jam. Which was edited by Tony Medina and Louis Reyes Rivera.\n\nIn 2003, he was published in Dance Giant Steps, Three Baker's Dozen: Selected Dance Poetry.\n\n\"Midnight Rounds\" a poem written by George Edward Tait for his wife Akosua. \n\"Out of the nucleus of nature she is a nimbus in the night\nHer vintage voice filling the vaporized void with veracity.\"\nAnd women, if you want to read real love poems, try \"A Dance for Akosua\" and \"Dance of Destiny.\" Hear love married to mission and mission married to Spirit:\n\"Let us dance, my dear:\nDance with purpose and power\nDance with productivity and pride\nDance with the passion of Providence\n& with the potency of prayer.\"\n\n\"Swashbuckler's Song\"\n\n\"The pen is longer than the sword\nIs what the jurists think;\nThe pen is stronger than the sword\nIs what the purists think.\nSo I duly dip my pen in blood\nWhile I soak my sword in ink\".\n\nBy George Edward Tait\n"}
{"id": "1674738", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1674738", "title": "Graeme K. Talboys", "text": "Graeme K. Talboys\n\nGraeme K Talboys is an English writer and teacher.\n\nGraeme Keith Talboys was born at Queen Charlotte's Hospital in Hammersmith on Thursday 26 November 1953.\n\nHe is represented by Leslie Gardner of Artellus.\n\nTalboys was nominated for \"The Guardian\"'s \"Not the Booker Prize 2011.\"\n\nIn 2014, he was among 15 \"mostly unagented writers\" signed by HarperVoyager, the novels including his \"Exile and Pilgrim\" to be released digitally, followed by short-run paperback editions.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18521159", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18521159", "title": "Hans Maeder", "text": "Hans Maeder\n\nHans Karl Maeder (December 29, 1909 – September 8, 1988) was an innovative educator who founded the Stockbridge School in Stockbridge, Massachusetts and served as its director and headmaster for 23 years.\n\nMaeder was born in Hamburg, Germany on December 29, 1909, the third child in a prosperous family. He described his father as an authoritarian nationalist and anti-Semite who embraced Hitler's message. Maeder left home at 18, refusing to go into business as his father had wished, and deciding instead to become a teacher.\n\nMaeder, a socialist consistent with the ideas of the Internationaler Sozialistischer Kampfbund had to leave the university of Hamburg due to his political attitude. In June 1933 he was warned that his arrest was imminent and therefore he fled to Denmark. Here he taught at the Udlose Boys Home, an institution for boys with problems. He was engaged in a political committee named to Giacomo Matteotti and was in close contact to Walter Hösterey (also known as Walter Hammer), a German publicist who agitated against the Nazis and lived in Danish exile.\n\nIn autumn 1937 he had to leave Denmark and went over France to Switzerland. Here he was expelled again and had to leave after a short time. From her he subsequently traveled to Kenya. He worked on a coffee plantation and a school program for the children of the black farmworkers. When the farmer noticed this activities, Maeder was fired. Later on he published an article about the exploitation on the plantations and this was the reason to leave Kenya. He had much luck, because the American consul in Nairobi was the father of a school friend of Maeder at his time in Hamburg. By this coincidence Maeder got a visa for Manila without an affidavit. He now travelled to Hong Kong, Singapore, and at last to the Philippines. After some times he got an invitation to teach at the University of Hawaii and with the help of American friends he finally got a visa for Hawaii. Maeder arrived in Hawaii in 1941, but was interned as an enemy alien on December 8, the day after the bombing of Pearl Harbor.\n\nMaeder was released from an internment camp in Texas on February 23, 1943. Arriving in New York, Maeder soon obtained a position as the director of the boys' division of a YMCA in Williamsburg, Brooklyn. In September 1944, Maeder took a teaching job for a year at Windsor Mountain School in Lenox, Massachusetts, several miles from the site of the future Stockbridge School.\n\nMaeder then moved to the Walden School, a private day school in Manhattan, teaching German and the history of languages and briefly serving as the school's director in 1947 and 1948. It was at Walden that he met his wife Ruth, a widow at the time, through her son David, a Walden student whom he later adopted. Maeder left Walden in 1948 to found Stockbridge School.\n\nThe Maeders paid $60,000 to acquire the 1,100-plus acres of the former estate of Daniel Rhodes Hanna, son of Mark Hanna. Their purchase of what became the site of Stockbridge School occurred shortly after the failure of Liberal Arts, Inc. to establish a Great Books-based college associated with St. John's College, Annapolis, Maryland, on the same site. The property had been vacant since the Great Depression and extended from the summit of West Stockbridge Mountain to the shore of a lake called the Stockbridge Bowl. Only a portion of this extensive property became the school campus, with the Maeders retaining title to the remainder.\n\nAs a progressive private boarding school for adolescents, Maeder intended that Stockbridge School's educational philosophy be interracial, nondenominational and international. The school was notable for being completely racially integrated from its inception and Maeder made successful efforts to recruit an international student body.\n\nTo help express Maeder's philosophy, and in light of his experiences as a German refugee and expatriate, the school flew the United Nations flag just below the American flag beginning in 1948, three years after the U.N. came into existence. For some years, its curriculum included a junior year abroad, and Stockbridge briefly operated a branch in Corcelles, Switzerland.\n\nThe best-known Stockbridge School alumnus is Arlo Guthrie, whose arrest for littering by Stockbridge police shortly after graduation in 1965 inspired the song \"Alice's Restaurant\". Alice Brock had been the school librarian before opening a lunch counter in Stockbridge. Among other notable alumni are Chevy Chase, Benjamin Barber, Dr. Kenneth Edelin and Gunter Nabel.\n\nMaeder retired from Stockbridge School in 1971. The school closed five years later, in 1976, as a result of declining enrollment and debt. In 1978 the school campus became the site of the DeSisto at Stockbridge School, a wholly unrelated institution.\n\nAfter leaving Stockbridge, Maeder worked as an educational consultant in New York City. His wife, Ruth, died in 1976. He died in Manhattan in 1988; the cause of his death was prostate cancer.\n\n\nGunter Nabel (1986), \"A Fight for Human Rights: Hans Maeder's Politics of Optimism for World Understanding through Education\". Documents of the Stockbridge School. Frankfurt/Main: Dipa-Verlag. \nGünter Nabel: Hans Maeders Kampf für die Menschenrechte: die Stockbridge School in Massachusetts (USA), in: Hildegard Feidel-Mertz (ed.): Schulen im Exil. Die verdrängte Pädagogik nach 1933. Rowohlt Taschenbuch Verlag GmbH, Reinbek bei Hamburg, 1983, pp. 199–221. The full article also includes information about Maeder′s paedacogical concept. It may be a pre-study to the book before.\n"}
{"id": "6199182", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6199182", "title": "Health literacy", "text": "Health literacy\n\nHealth literacy is the ability to obtain, read, understand, and use healthcare information in order to make appropriate health decisions and follow instructions for treatment. There are multiple definitions of health literacy, in part, because health literacy involves both the context (or setting) in which health literacy demands are made (e.g., health care, media, internet or fitness facility) and the skills that people bring to that situation.\n\nSince health literacy is a primary contributing factor to health disparities, it is a continued and increasing concern for health professionals. The 2003 National Assessment of Adult Literacy (NAAL) conducted by the US Department of Education found that 36% of participants scored as either \"basic\" or \"below basic\" in terms of their health literacy and concluded that approximately 80 million Americans have limited health literacy. These individuals have difficulty with common health tasks including reading the label of a prescribed drug. Several factors may influence health literacy. However, the following factors have been shown to strongly increase this risk: age (especially patients 65 years and older), limited English language proficiency or English as a second language, less education, and lower socioeconomic status. Patients with low health literacy understand less about their medical conditions and treatments and overall report worse health status.\n\nVarious interventions, such as simplifying information and illustrations, avoiding jargon, using \"teach-back\" methods, and encouraging patients' questions, have improved health behaviors in persons with low health literacy. The proportion of adults aged 18 and over in the U.S., in the year 2010, who reported that their health care providers always explained things so they could understand them was about 60.6%. This number increased 1% from 2007 to 2010. The Healthy People 2020 initiative of the United States Department of Health and Human Services has included health literacy as a pressing new topic, with objectives for improving it in the decade to come.\n\nSociety as a whole is responsible for improving health literacy. Most importantly, improving health literacy is the responsibility of healthcare and public health professionals and systems.\n\nIn order to have a patient that understands health terms and can make proper health decisions, the language used by health professionals has to be at a level that others who are not in the medical field can understand. Health professionals must know their audience in order to better serve their patients. The language used by these professionals should be plain language. Plain language is a strategy for making written and oral information easier to understand; it is communication that users can understand the first time they read or hear it.\n\nSome key elements of plain language include: \n\nThe National Institute of Health (NIH) recommends that patient education materials should be not written higher than a 6th-7th grade reading level; further recommendations provided by the NIH Office of Communications and Public Liaison are published in their \"Clear Communication\" Initiative.\n\nMany factors determine the health literacy level of health education materials or interventions: readability of the text, the patient's current state of health, language barriers of the patient, cultural appropriateness of the materials, format and style, sentence structure, use of illustrations, and numerous other factors.\n\nA study of 2,600 patients conducted in 1995 by two US hospitals found that between 26% and 60% of patients could not understand medication directions, a standard informed consent form, or materials about scheduling an appointment. The 2003 National Assessment of Adult Literacy (NAAL) conducted by the US Department of Education found that 36% of participants scored as either \"basic\" or \"below basic\" in terms of their health literacy and concluded that approximately 80 million Americans have limited health literacy.\n\nThe young and multidisciplinary field of health literacy emerged from two groups of experts: physicians, health providers such as nurses, and health educators; and Adult Basic Education (ABE) and English as a second language (ESL) practitioners in the field of education. Physicians and nurses are a source of patient comprehension and compliance studies. Adult Basic Education / English for Speakers of Languages Other Than English (ABE/ESOL) specialists study and design interventions to help people develop reading, writing, and conversation skills and increasingly infuse curricula with health information to promote better health literacy. A range of approaches to adult education brings health literacy skills to people in traditional classroom settings, as well as where they work and live.\n\nThe biomedical approach to health literacy that became dominant (in the U.S.) during the 1980s and 1990s often depicted individuals as lacking health literacy or \"suffering\" from low health literacy. This approach assumed that recipients are passive in their possession and reception of health literacy and believed that models of literacy and health literacy are politically neutral and universally applicable. This approach is found lacking when placed in the context of broader ecological, critical, and cultural approaches to health. This approach has produced, and continues to reproduce, numerous correlational studies.\n\nLevel of health literacy is considered adequate when the population has sufficient knowledge, skills, and confidence to guide their own health, and people are able to stay healthy, recover from illness, and/or live with disability or disease.\n\nMcMurray states that health literacy is important in a community because it addresses health inequities. It is no coincidence that individuals with lower levels of health literacy live, disproportionally, in communities with lower socio-economic standing. A barrier to achieving adequate health literacy for these individuals is a lack of awareness, or understanding of, information and resources relevant to improving their health. This knowledge gap arises from both patients being unable to understand information presented to them and hospitals' inadequate efforts and materials to address these literacy gaps.\n\nA more robust view of health literacy includes the ability to understand scientific concepts, content, and health research; skills in spoken, written, and online communication; critical interpretation of mass media messages; navigating complex systems of health care and governance; knowledge and use of community capital and resources; and using cultural and indigenous knowledge in health decision making. This integrative view sees health literacy as a social determinant of health that offers a powerful opportunity to reduce inequities in health.\n\nThis perspective defines health literacy as the wide range of skills, and competencies that people develop over their lifetimes to seek out, comprehend, evaluate, and use health information and concepts to make informed choices, reduce health risks, and increase quality of life. While various definitions vary in wording, they all fall within this conceptual framework.\n\nDefining health literacy in that manner builds the foundation for a multi-dimensional model of health literacy built around four central domains:\n\n\nThere are several tests, which have verified reliability in the academic literature that can be administered in order to test one's health literacy. Some of these tests include the Medical Term Recognition Test (METER), which was developed in the United States (2 minute administration time) for the clinical setting. The METER includes many words from the Rapid Estimate of Adult Literacy in Medicine (REALM) test. The Short Assessment of Health Literacy in Spanish and English populations (SAHL-S&E) uses word recognition and multiple choice questions to test a person's comprehension. The CHC-Test measures Critical Health Competencies and consists of 72 items designed to test a person's understanding of medical concepts, literature searching, basic statistics, and design of experiments and samples.\n\nAccording to an Institute of Medicine (2004) report, low health literacy negatively affects the treatment outcome and safety of care delivery. The lack of health literacy affects all segments of the population. However, it is disproportionate in certain demographic groups, such as the elderly, ethnic minorities, recent immigrants, and persons with low general literacy. These populations have a higher risk of hospitalization, longer hospital stays, are less likely to comply with treatment, are more likely to make errors with medication, and are more ill when they initially seek medical care.\nThe mismatch between a clinician's communication of content and a patient's ability to understand that content can lead to medication errors and adverse medical outcomes. Health literacy skills are not only a problem in the general population. Health care professionals (doctors, nurses, public health workers) can also have poor health literacy skills, such as a reduced ability to clearly explain health issues to patients and the public.\nIn addition to tailoring the content of what health professionals communicate to their patients, a well arranged layout, pertinent illustrations, and intuitive format of written materials can improve the usability of health care literature. This in turn can help in effective communication between healthcare providers and their patients.\n\nIdentifying a patient as having low health literacy is essential for a healthcare professional to conform their health intervention in a way that the patient will understand. When patients with low health literacy receive care that is tailored to their more limited medical knowledge base, results have shown that health behaviors drastically improve. This has been seen with: correct medication use and dosage, utilizing health screenings, as well as increased exercise and smoking cessation. Effective visual aids have shown to help supplement the information communicated by the doctor in the office. In particular, easily readable brochures and videos have shown to be very effective. Healthcare professionals can use many methods to attain patients' health literacy. A multitude of tests used during research studies and three minute assessments commonly used in doctors offices are examples of the variety of tests healthcare professionals can use to better understand their patients' health literacy.\n\nThe American Medical Association showed that asking simple single item questions, such as \"How confident are you in filling out medical forms by yourself?\", is a very effective and direct way to understand from a patient's point of view how they feel about interacting with their healthcare provider and understanding their health condition.\n\nIn order to be understood by patients with insufficient health literacy, health professionals must intervene to provide clear and concise information that can be more easily understood. Avoidance of medical jargon, illustrations of important concepts, and confirming information by a \"teach back\" method have shown to be effective tools to communicating essential health topics with health illiterate patients. A program called \"Ask Me 3\" is designed to bring public and physician attention to this issue, by letting patients know that they should ask three questions each time they talk to a doctor, nurse, or pharmacist:\n\nThere have also been large-scale efforts to improve health literacy. For example, a public information program by the US Department of Health and Human Services encourages patients to improve healthcare quality and avoid errors by asking questions about health conditions and treatment. Additionally, the IROHLA (Intervention Research on Health Literacy of the Ageing population) project, funded by the European Union (EU), seeks to develop evidence-based guidelines for policy and practice to improve health literacy of the ageing population in EU member states. The project has developed a framework and identified and validated interventions which together constitute a comprehensive approach of addressing health literacy needs of the elderly.\n\nDiabetes is a rapidly growing health problem among immigrants—affecting approximately 10 percent of Asian-Americans. It is the fifth-leading cause of death in Asian-Americans between the ages of 45 and 64. In addition, type 2 diabetes is the most common form of the disease. Those who are diagnosed with type 2 diabetes have high levels of blood glucose because the body does not effectively respond to insulin. It is a lifelong disease with no known cure. Diabetes is a chronic, debilitating, and costly social burden—costing healthcare systems about $100 billion annually.\n\nDiabetes disproportionately affects underserved and ethnically diverse populations, such as Vietnamese-American communities. The relationship between the disease and health literacy level is in part because of an individual's ability to read English, evaluate blood glucose levels, and communicate with medical professionals. Other studies also suggest lack in knowledge of diabetes symptoms and complications. According to an observational cross-sectional study conducted, many Vietnamese-American diabetic patients show signs of poor blood glucose control and adherence due to inadequate self-management knowledge and experience. Diabetes health literacy research is needed to fully understand the burden of the chronic disease in Vietnamese-American communities, with respect to language and culture, health literacy, and immigrant status. Ethnic minority groups and immigrant communities have less knowledge of health promoting behavior, face considerable obstacles to health services, and experience poor communication with medical professionals. According to a recent review, studies have supported an independent relationship between literacy and knowledge of diabetes management and glucose control, but its impact on patients has not been sufficiently described. With the demand of chronic disease self-management (e.g., diabetic diet, glucose monitoring, etc.), a call for cultural-specific patient education is needed to achieve the control of diabetes and its adverse health outcomes in low- to middle-income Vietnamese-American immigrant communities.\n\nThe problem of low oral health literacy (OHL) is often neglected which may lead to poor oral health outcomes and under utilization of oral care services. A cross-sectional survey of school teachers working in schools at Mangalore, India was undertaken. Details regarding demographics, medical, and dental history, oral hygiene practices and habits, diet history, and decay promoting the potential of school teachers were obtained using face-to-face interview method. The Rapid Estimate of Adult Literacy in Dentistry-99 (REALD-99) was used to assess their OHL.The OHL was high in the school teachers with the REALD-99 scores ranging from 45 to 95 with a mean score of 75.83 ± 9.94. Th This study found that there was a statistically significant difference between OHL and education, frequency of brushing and the filled teeth. Although this study indicated high OHL levels among school teachers in Mangalore, India the magnitude of dental caries in this population was also relatively high and very few had a healthy periodontium.\n\neHealth literacy describes the relatively modern concept of an individual's ability to search for, successfully access, comprehend, and appraise desired health information from electronic sources and to then use such information to attempt to address a particular health problem. Due to the increasing influence of the internet for information-seeking and health information distribution purposes, eHealth literacy has become an important topic of research in recent years. Stellefson (2011) states, \"8 out of 10 Internet users report that they have at least once looked online for health information, making it the third most popular Web activity next to checking email and using search engines in terms of activities that almost everybody has done.\" Though in recent years, individuals may have gained access to a multitude of health information via the Internet, access alone does not ensure that proper search skills and techniques are being used to find the most relevant online and electronic resources. As the line between a reputable medical source and an amateur opinion can often be blurred, the ability to differentiate between the two is important.\n\nHealth literacy requires a combination of several different literacy skills in order to facilitate eHealth promotion and care. Six core skills are delineated by an eHealth literacy model referred to as the Lily model. The Lily Model's six literacies are organized into two central types: analytic and context-specific. Analytic type literacies are those skills that can be applied to a broad range of sources, regardless of topic or content (i.e., skills that can also be applied to shopping or researching a term paper in addition to health) whereas context-specific skills are those that are contextualized within a specific problem domain (can solely be applied to health). The six literacies are listed below, the first three of the analytic type and the latter three of the context-specific:\n\nAccording to Norman (2006), both analytical and context-specific literacy skills are \"required to fully engage with electronic health resources.\" As the World Wide Web and technological innovations are more and more becoming a part of the healthcare environment, it is important for information technology to be properly utilized to promote health and deliver health care effectively. Furthermore, it was argued by Hayat Brainin & Neter (2017), that digital media fosters the creation of interpersonal ties, that can supplement eHealth literacy. According to Hayat Brainin & Neter (2017), individuals with low eHealth literacy who were able to recruit help when performing online activities demonstrated higher health outcomes compared to similar individuals who did not find help. Also relating to the proliferation of digital media is the fact that many individuals now can create their own ‘media content’ (user-generated content). This means that the boundary between “information” and “media” content, as proposed by Norman in 2006, now is increasingly blurred, creating additional challenges for health practitioners (Holmberg, 2016).\n\nIt has also been suggested that the move towards patient-centered care and the greater use of technology for self-care and self-management requires higher health literacy on the part of the patient. This has been noted in several research studies, for example among adolescent patients with obesity.\n\nThe United States Department of Health and Human Services created a National Action Plan to Improve Health Literacy. One of the goals of the National Action Plan is to incorporate health and science information in childcare and education through the university level. The target is to educate people at an early stage; that way individuals are raised with health literacy and will have a better quality of life. The earlier an individual is exposed to health literacy skills the better for the person and the community.\n\nPrograms such as Head Start and Women, Infants, and Children (WIC) have impacted our society, especially the low income population. Head Start provides low-income children and their families early childhood education, nutrition, and health screenings. Health literacy is integrated in the program for both children and parents through the education given to the individuals. WIC serves low-income pregnant women and new mothers by supplying them with food, health care referrals, and nutrition education. Programs like these help improve the health literacy of both the parent and the child, creating a more knowledgeable community with health education.\n\nAlthough programs like Head Start and WIC have been working with the health literacy of a specific population, much more can be done with the education of children and young adults. Now, more and more adolescents are getting involved with their health care. It is crucial to educate these individuals in order for them to make informed decisions.\n\nMany schools in the country incorporate a health class in their curriculum. These classes provided an excellent opportunity to facilitate and develop health literacy in today's children and adolescents. The skills of how to read food labels, the meaning of common medical terms, the structure of the human body, and education on the most prevalent diseases in the United States should be taught in both private and public schools. This way new generations will grow with health literacy and would hopefully make knowledgeable health decisions.\n\nThe National Library of Medicine defines health literacy as:\n\nBased on this clinical definition, health literacy gives\nindividuals the skills that they need to both understand and effectively\ncommunicate information and concerns. Bridging that gap between literacy skills\nand the ability of the individual in health contexts, the \"Health Literacy Framework\" highlights the health outcomes and costs\nassociated with health contexts including cognitive abilities, social skills,\nemotional state, and physical conditions such as visual and auditory contributions.\n\n\"Potential Intervention Points\" are illustrated in reflection of the \"Health Literacy Framework.\"\nWhile these potential intervention points include interactions such as those of individuals and the education systems\nthat they are engaged with, their health systems, and societal factors as they\nrelate to health literacy, these points are not \ncomponents of a causal model. The three\npotential intervention points are culture and society, the health system, and\nthe education system. Health outcomes and costs are the products of the health\nliteracy developed during diversity of exposure to these three potential intervention\npoints.\n\nReferring to shared ideas, meanings, and values that\ninfluence an individual's beliefs and attitudes, cultural and societal\ninfluences are a significant intervention point for health literacy\ndevelopment. As interactions with healthcare systems often first occur at the\nfamily level, deeply rooted beliefs and values can shape the significance of\nthe experience. Included components that reflect the development of health\nliteracy both culturally and societally are native language, socioeconomic status,\ngender, race, and ethnicity, as well as mass media exposure. These\nare pathways to understanding American life paralleling conquests for a health\nliterate America.\n\nThe health system is an intervention point in the \"Health Literacy Framework\". For the\npurposes of this framework, health literacy refers to an individual's\ninteraction with people performing health-related activities in settings such\nas hospitals, clinics, physician's offices, home health care, public health agencies,\nand insurers.\n\nIn the United States, the education system consists of K-12 curricula. In addition to this standard educational\nsetting, adult education programs are also environments in which individuals\ncan develop traditional literacy skills founded in comprehension and real-world\napplication of knowledge via reading and writing. Tools for educational development provided by\nthese systems impact an individual's capacity to obtain specific knowledge\nregarding health. Reflecting components of traditional literacy such as\ncultural and conceptual knowledge, oral literacy (listening and speaking,)\nprint literacy (reading and writing,) and numeracy, education systems are also\npotential intervention points for health literacy development.\n\nA successful health literacy program will have many goals that all work together to improve health literacy. Many people assume these goals should communicate health information to the general public, however in order to be successful the goals should not only communicate with people but also take into account social and environmental factors that influence lifestyle choices. A good example of this is the movement to end smoking. When a health literacy program is put into place where only the negative side effects of smoking are told to the general public it is doomed to fail. However, when there is a larger program put in – one that includes strategies outlining how to quit smoking, raises tobacco prices, reduces access to tobacco by minors, and reflect social a social unacceptability of smoking – it will be much more effective.\n\nThe U.S. Department of Health and Human Services suggests a National Action Plan to implement a comprehensive Health Literacy Program. They include 7 goals:\nThese goals should be taken into account when implementing a health literacy program.\n\nThere are also goals for the outcomes of a Health Literacy Program.\n\n\"Health Related Goals\"\n\nLibraries have increasingly recognised that they can play a role in health literacy since the 2000s, influenced by the Medical Library Association. Library initiatives have included running education programs, fostering partnerships with health organisations, and using outreach efforts.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6532557", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6532557", "title": "Henry Pickering Bowditch", "text": "Henry Pickering Bowditch\n\nHenry Pickering Bowditch (April 4, 1840 – March 13, 1911) was an American soldier, physician, physiologist, and dean of the Harvard Medical School.\nFollowing his teacher Carl Ludwig, he promoted the training of medical practitioners in a context of physiological research. His teaching career at Harvard spanned 35 years.\n\nHenry P. Bowditch was born to the Massachusetts Bowditch family, noted for the mathematician Nathaniel Bowditch, his grandfather, and the archaeologist Charles Pickering Bowditch, his brother. He was born in Boston, Massachusetts to Jonathan Ingersoll Bowditch and Lucy Orne Nichols Bowditch. In 1861, he graduated from Harvard College, and then entered Harvard’s Lawrence Scientific School. His studies there were interrupted by his service in the Union Army during the American Civil War, where he rose to the rank of major in the Fifth Massachusetts Colored Cavalry Regiment. \n\nAfter graduation from Harvard Medical School in 1868, he went to Paris to study with Claude Bernard. In Bernard’s lab he worked alongside Louis-Antoine Ranvier, later known for neuroanatomy, and Étienne-Jules Marey who promoted the use of photography to capture physiological dynamics. According to Walter Bradford Cannon, when in Paris, Bowditch joined with fellow Bostonians John Collins Warren Jr., William James, and Charles Emerson for frog-hunting parties.\nBowditch continued his European studies in Bonn with Wilhelm Kuhne and Max Schultze. Ultimately he proceeded to Leipzig where Carl Ludwig was conducting the program that Bowditch would emulate at Harvard. Bowditch impressed Ludwig by constructing an improvement on the kymograph then in use. His studies in Leipzig brought him into contact with, among others, Ray Lankester, Angelo Mosso, Hugo Kronecker and Carl von Voit.\n\nBowditch was appointed assistant professor of physiology at Harvard in 1871. While still in Germany, he purchased European materials to support the investigative training program he planned. And dramatically, on 9 September 1871, just days before sailing for Boston, he married Selma Knuth of Leipzig. The Bowditch laboratory at Harvard, the first physiological laboratory in the United States, began modestly in attic rooms. \n\nIn 1875–1876, Bowditch, William James, Charles Pickering Putnam, and James Jackson Putnam founded the Putnam Camp at St. Huberts, Essex County, New York.\n\nBowditch's career at Harvard was parallel to that of William James who instituted his program of experimental psychology in 1875. Bowditch and James represented the \"New Education\" espoused by Charles William Eliot, Harvard's President. In 1876 Bowditch was promoted to full professor. In 1887 he co-founded and was the first president of the American Physiological Society. At Harvard he rose to the position of dean of the medical school, serving from 1883 to 1893. In 1903 he was honoured with the George Higginson chair. After 35 years teaching for Harvard, he retired in 1906, and died in Jamaica Plains, Massachusetts in 1913. His students included Walter Bradford Cannon, Charles Sedgwick Minot and G. Stanley Hall.\n\nManfred Bowditch, Henry's son, gave a personal description of his father. Bowditch did much experimentation in a cottage at an Adirondack camp at the head of Keene Valley which bore his name. There, with a well-equipped workshop the son witnessed considerable \"inventiveness and manual skill\" that Henry also applied in the physiology lab.\n\nBowditch was granted honorary degrees from five universities: Cambridge, Edinburgh, Toronto, Pennsylvania, and Harvard. Since 1956 the American Physiological Society has selected a distinguished physiologist to deliver the \"Henry Pickering Bowditch Award Lecture\".\n\nHenry Pickering Bowditch was known for his physiological work on cardiac contraction and knee jerk.\nHe also developed an interest in anthropometry, and showed that nutrition and environmental factors contribute to physiological development.\nBowditch can be seen as a link between the milieu interieur of Claude Bernard, his teacher, and homeostasis as developed by his student Walter Cannon.\n\n"}
{"id": "31669927", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31669927", "title": "Hélène Kirsova", "text": "Hélène Kirsova\n\nHélène Kirsova (18 June 191022 February 1962) was a Danish ballerina, choreographer, and director who started the first professional ballet company in Australia. Kirsova was born in Copenhagen as Ellen Elisabeth Kiersten Wittrup. In Denmark, she received ballet training from Emilie Walborn and Jenny Møller. She continued her studies in Paris with Olga Preobrajenska, Léo Staats, and Lubov Egorova. She toured with various companies in the 1920s and 1930s. Most notably, she was a founding member of the Ballet Russe de Monte Carlo. Kirsova toured to Australia as a principal artist in the Ballet Russe de Monte Carlo in 1936. She returned in 1938 to wed the Danish vice-consul Dr. Erik Fisher, who was living in Sydney. Her company, the Kirsova Ballet, was based in Sydney and presented its first show in 1941. The Kirsova Ballet continued to present works on and off until 1944, when it folded due to war-time financial constraints and difficulty receiving backing from J. C. Williamson Theatres, which largely controlled Australian theatrical productions at the time.\n\nHélène Kirsova's company did not last as long as Edouard Borovansky's (which would later turn into the Australian Ballet.) As such, Kirsova is often mentioned only in passing as Borovansky's failed rival. Kirsova's school and company played an important role in exposing Australians to ballet.\n\nThe set designer Loudon Sainthill worked with Kirsova in the early part of his career.\n\nShe died in London in 1962, aged only 51.\n\n"}
{"id": "3959935", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3959935", "title": "ISchola", "text": "ISchola\n\niSchola is a proprietary on-line community environment designed specifically for use by the European Schools. It is forum based system that uses advanced artificial intelligence, word checking and moderation techniques providing a safe community for the students of the European Schools. At this point, it is being tested in the European School, Mol.\n\n\niSchola is hosted on an Apple Xserve and uses WebObjects for its core operation.\n\n"}
{"id": "40899902", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40899902", "title": "Iversity", "text": "Iversity\n\nIversity is a Berlin-based online education platform. Since October 2013, iversity has specialised in providing online courses and lectures in higher education, specifically MOOCs (Massive Open Online Courses). Courses are free and open for anyone to enroll and participate. Many of them are conducted in English or German, but also other languages. iversity cooperates with individual professors as well as different European universities. Some of the courses were winners of the MOOC Production Fellowship held in early 2013. iversity.org officially launched the MOOC platform online in October 2013 and as of February 2015 has a user base of 600,000 online learners, enrolled in 63 courses offered by 41 partner universities. iversity is the only MOOC platform offering courses with ECTS-integration. iversity has branch offices in Bernau bei Berlin, Germany and Berlin.\n\n\nMassive Open Online Courses (MOOCs) harness visual elements (lecture videos, animations, graphics), interactive elements (simulations) and written materials (scientific articles). All elements can be reviewed at any time. Instructor and course participants can interact with each other in discussion forums. Instructors can use quizzes to get feedback on the learning progress of the course participants. Most iversity courses end with a final assessment or exam. Exams can be taken on-site, online as “proctored-exam” or in form of a final project that has to be handed in to the instructor.\n\nStudents at iversity.org can choose between different study paths, resulting in different certificates. “Statement of Participation” is free-of-charge, other certificates come with varying costs – depending on which level of certification the student chooses. Universities that offer a course at iversity have the option of offering European Credit Transfer and Accumulation System (ECTS) credits. This track allows students to receive credits from their course and apply them to their university studies. ECTS Credits can be used at any European Higher Education Institution. A certificate that awards ECTS credits is issued once the participant has passed an on-site or online proctored exam. Enrolment to courses is free, costs only apply when purchasing certificates.\n\nFor the production of courses, iversity collaborates with European universities and individual professors. Lecturers design their own MOOCs with technical support from iversity. \niversity cooperates with institutions such as \n\niversity earns revenue through the sale of certificates, which online learners receive after successfully completing courses on iversity.org thereby catering to all types of learners, among them working professionals who need to document their learning achievements and university students. Some courses at iversity can be integrated into the student's diploma through the European Credit Transfer and Accumulation System (ECTS).\niversity has raised more than €5 million in venture capital. The investors are T-Venture, bmp media investors, BFB Frühphasenfonds, Masoud Kamali, Westtech Ventures, CRALS, Peter Zühlsdorf and Kontor B45.\nThe iversity Advisory board consists of Dr. Jörg Dräger and Prof. Édouard Husson.\n"}
{"id": "4174431", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4174431", "title": "Jerusalem (Mendelssohn)", "text": "Jerusalem (Mendelssohn)\n\nJerusalem, or on Religious Power and Judaism () is a book written by Moses Mendelssohn, which was first published in 1783 – the same year, when the Prussian officer Christian Wilhelm von Dohm published the second part of his Mémoire \"Concerning the amelioration of the civil status of the Jews\". Moses Mendelssohn was one of the key figures of Jewish Enlightenment (Haskalah) and his philosophical treatise, dealing with social contract and political theory (especially concerning the question of the separation between religion and state), can be regarded as his most important contribution to Haskalah. The book which was written in Prussia on the eve of the French Revolution, consisted of two parts and each one was paged separately. The first part discusses \"religious power\" and the freedom of conscience in the context of the political theory (Baruch Spinoza, John Locke, Thomas Hobbes), and the second part discusses Mendelssohn's personal conception of Judaism concerning the new secular role of any religion within an enlightened state. In his publication Moses Mendelssohn combined a defense of the Jewish population against public accusations with contemporary criticism of the present conditions of the Prussian Monarchy.\n\nIn 1763 some students of theology visited Moses Mendelssohn in Berlin because of his reputation as a man of letters, and they insisted that they wanted to know Mendelssohn's opinion about Christianity. Three years later one of them, the Swiss Johann Caspar Lavater, sent him his own German translation of Charles Bonnet's \"Palingénésie philosophique\", with a public dedication to Mendelssohn. In this dedication he charged Mendelssohn with the decision to follow Bonnet's reasons by converting to Christianity or to refute Bonnet's arguments. The very ambitious priest Lavater published his dedication to Mendelssohn and Mendelssohn's response together with other letters which were dated to the year 1774—including a prayer of Dr. Kölbele \"baptizing two Israelites as a consequence of the Mendelssohn dispute\". He abused the reputation of Mendelssohn and of his letters about religious tolerance to fashion himself as a kind of Christian Messiah of contemporary Judaism, disregarding the Haskalah as a conversion to Christianity.\n\nThis intrigue was transferred to the times of the medieval crusades in the allegorical drama \"Nathan der Weise\" of Mendelssohn's friend Gotthold Ephraim Lessing: Lessing replaced the young priest Lavater with the historical figure Saladin who appeared as the tolerant hero of the crusades in the perspective of contemporary enlightened historiography. The motive of Nathan who replied with the \"ring parable\", was taken from Boccaccio's \"Decamerone\" and Lessing intended to create his drama as a monument of tolerance and enlightenment dedicated to Moses Mendelssohn. Lessing was an open-minded and modern type of freemason and he himself had a public theological dispute () about the historical truth of the New Testament with the orthodox Lutheran Hauptpastor Johann Melchior Goeze in Hamburg during the 70s. Finally he was banned 1778 by the Herzog of Brunswick. Lessing's new way to ask about the fundament of a certain religion and to regard its efforts on religious tolerance was intended as a reflection of the current political practice.\n\nIn 1782, after the declaration of the so-called \"Toleranzpatent\" in the Habsburg Monarchy under Joseph II and the realization of the «lettres patentes» in the French Monarchy under Louis XVI, religion and especially the Jewish emancipation became a favorite subject of private debates in Alsace-Lorraine and these debates were often followed by publications of Christian clerics and Abbés. Mendelssohn's \"Jerusalem or on Religious Power and Judaism\" may be regarded as his contribution to the debate.\n\nDuring the 1770s Mendelssohn was frequently asked to act as a mediator by Jews in Switzerland and Alsace – and once Lavater supported Mendelssohn's intervention. About 1780 there was another antisemitic intrigue in Alsace, when François Hell accused the Jewish population to exhaust the peasants. The contemporary Alsatian Jews had no permission to buy land, but they often existed as innkeepers and moneylenders in rural areas. Moses Mendelssohn was asked by Herz Cerfberr, the communal leader of the Alsatian Jews, to react with a \"Mémoire\" about the legal discrimination of the Jewish population as it was common practice of the Prussian administration. Moses Mendelssohn arranged a \"Mémoire\" by the Prussian officer and freemason Christian Wilhelm von Dohm in which both authors tried to relate the confirmation of the unenlightened condition with a demand for a general improvement of the civil condition.\n\nIn this respect Moses Mendelssohn proved in his book \"Jerusalem\" which was published in the same year, that the \"amelioration\" of the civil status of the Jews could not be separated from an urgent need to modernize the Prussian Monarchy as a whole. The reason, why Moses Mendelssohn as one of the most recognized philosophers of Haskalah was from Prussia, has to be understood by the fact that the state of Jewish emancipation there as on the lowest level in comparison with the neighbour countries. So the Jewish population was more forced to assimilate than in other countries during the 19th century: The Hohenzollern Monarchy followed with their edicts into the footsteps of the Habsburg Monarchy—with 10 years delay. In 1784, one year after the publication of Mendelssohn's book \"Jerusalem\", the administration of the Habsburg Monarchy prohibited rabbinic jurisdiction and submitted the Jewish population to its own jurisdiction, but with an inferior legal status. This first step of the monarchy was expected to be done in a direction towards intolerance. In 1791 the National Assembly of the French Revolution declared the full civil rights for the Jewish population of the French Republic (\"Déclaration des droits de l'homme et du citoyen\").\n\nMoses Mendelssohn was a highly educated scholar and teacher who devoted much effort to the German translation of classical Hellenic and Roman philosophers and poets as a young man, and he became a very famous and influential philosopher of Haskalah. His book \"Jerusalem oder über religiöse Macht und Judentum\" can be regarded as one of the main works of Jewish Enlightenment.\n\nOften this text which explains the real subject of \"amelioration\" in Dohm's defense, is still underestimated as a contribution to philosophy—probably because it was directly connected with the historical situation and the social conditions of the author's life. On the other hand, a lot of historians concerned about Haskalah criticized the heroic image about Moses Mendelssohn in which he appears as the starting point of Jewish enlightenment without any respect to earlier attempts around the beginning of the 18th century.\n\nRegarding the present accusations and complaints concerning the current state of Judaism as a modern Christian prejudice which just had replaced the medieval ones (like poisoning fountains, ritual slaughtering of Christian children on Pessah etc.), his subject of amelioration was the religion and especially the one which has to be separated from the state.\n\nThe two parts of his books have no titles except \"Erster\" and \"Zweiter Abschnitt\" (\"first\" and \"second section\"), and the first one treated clearly the contemporary conflicts of the state and the second those of religion. In the first the author developed his political theory towards a utopia of a just and tolerant democracy, which he identified with the political attempt of the Mosaic Law: therefore the title \"Jerusalem\". In the second part he worked out a new pedagogic charge which every religion has to fulfill in the private sector. It was reduced to it, because the tolerant state should be separated from any religion. Hence the Mosaic law and the traditional practice of jurisdiction was no longer the business of Judaism, if there would be a tolerant state. Instead the new charge of religion would be the education of just and tolerant citizens. The book as a whole summarizes Moses Mendelssohn's critic concerning the contemporary conditions of the Prussian Monarchy and the legal status of the different religions, which finally means the civil status of its inhabitants according to their faith—the subject of Christian Wilhelm von Dohm's \"Mémoire\".\n\nMendelssohn's concept of political theory has to be understood from the historical situation in Prussian Monarchy and he formulated his theory before Kant. In 1771 he was also chosen by Johann Georg Sulzer, who wanted him as a member of the philosophical department at the \"Preussische Akademie der Wissenschaften\". But Sulzer's call was prohibited by Frederick the Great. The royal intervention clearly showed the borders of enlightenment and tolerance within Prussian monarchy, as far as the separation between religion and state was concerned.\n\nIn 1792 Immanel Kant used in \"Die Religion innerhalb der Grenzen der blossen Vernunft\" a conventional theological argument about the inferiority of the Mosaic law which would violently force mankind to a moral attitude, so it could not be really understood as a religion.\n\nMoses Mendelssohn opened the first part of his treatise which was published in 1783, with a very similar understanding of religion, but he chose as political example the \"Roman Catholic despotism\". Although his description of the conflict between state and religion as a conflict between common sense and religion was very close to that of Baruch Spinoza in his \"Tractatus theologico-politicus\", Mendelssohn mentioned Spinoza only briefly, by a comparison of his merits in metaphysics that corresponded to Hobbes' in the field of moral philosophy. Montesquieu's more recent political theory remarked a change in the contemporary situation, when this conflict caused finally the decline of the church and also hopes and fears about the expected end of the \"ancient régime:\"\n\nDespotism has the advantage that it is consistent. How inagreeable its demands might be commonsense, they are coherent and systematic. […] As well as the church constitution according to Roman Catholic principles: […] As long as you follow all its demands, you know what to do. Your edifice is founded, and perfect silence reigns in all its parts. Certainly only that terrifying kind of silence, as Montesquieu has objected, that you will find in a fortress, before it will be taken by storm at nightfall. […] But as soon as liberty dares to move something in this edifice, it will threaten disruption everywhere. So at the end you do not know which part of the building will not be ruined.\n\nFrom this libertarian point of view he drew nearer to Thomas Hobbes' scenario of the \"war of every man against every man\" (\"bellum omnium contra omnes\") which Hobbes had described as the \"natural condition of mankind\" in his book \"Leviathan\":\n\nFrom this natural human condition which was banned by a religious fear of God (in Bosse's frontispiece made up by a crowd of people), Mendelssohn defined the role of the state (the left column under the sword) and the role of the religion (the right column under the crook) and the way, how they both had to be brought into harmony:\n\nThe state gives orders and coerces; the religion educates and convinces; the state declares laws, religion offers precepts. The state has physical power and uses it, when it is necessary; the power of religion is \"charity\" and \"beneficience.\"\n\nBut, whatever the religion might be which had to be kept in harmony with the state, the state as a secular authority should never have the right to decide about the faith and the conscience of its citizens.\n\nIn Thomas Hobbes' \"Leviathan\" the argument that the fear of God also committed the state as an inferior power, was borrowed from a theological tradition which was also very common in Christian Patristic and its reception of the Tanakh. Mendelssohn obviously used Hobbes' moral philosophy to address the present conditions in the French and the Habsburg Monarchy and its Roman Catholic constitution, but his main address was probably Prussia and its \"philosopher king\".\n\nBut Mendelssohn's \"triumph\" over Hobbes did not mean that Hobbes' condition of human nature was not important for his own political theory. Hobbes' impressive justification of a social contract was much more useful for the rhetorical needs of Haskalah than Rousseau's \"contrat sociale\", because his moral philosophy reflected very deeply the consequences of the abuse of political power. And all contemporaries who had another faith than that of state religion, were quite familiar with these consequences.\n\nThrough the category \"freedom of conscience\" (\"Gewissensfreiheit\") Mendelssohn turned from the dark side (\"war of every man against every man\") to John Locke's enlightened definition of \"tolerance\" and to his concept of the separation between religion and state:\n\nLocke who lived in the same time full of confusion [as Hobbes], looked for another way to protect the freedom of conscience. In his letters on the tolerance he founded his definition as follows: A state should be an association of humans, who agreed to support together their \"temporal\" welfare. From this follows quite naturally that the state should not take care of the citizen's attitude concerning their eternal faith, it should rather tolerate everybody who behaves with civil respect — i.e. it should not obstruct its fellow citizens in respect of their temporal faith. The state, as civil authority, had not to observe the divergence; because religion in itself had not necessarily any influence on the temporal, it was just related with it by the arbitrariness of the humans.\n\nLocke's proposed relation between a tolerant state and the humans who were associated to it as citizens, had to be granted by a social contract. Moses Mendelssohn followed a simple judicial advice, when he described the subject of this contract as \"perfect\" and \"imperfect\" \"rights\" and \"responsibilities\":\n\nThere are perfect and imperfect, as well responsibilities — as rights. The former are called \"coercive rights\" and \"coercive responsibilities\" and the latter \"requirements\" (requests) and \"responsilities of conscience\". The former are formal, the latter only inner. It is allowed to enforce coercive rights, but also to refuse requests. The neglect of coercive responsibilities is an insult and an unfairness; but the neglect of responsilities of the conscience is only an inequity.\n\nAccording to Mendelssohn's social contract the separation between state and religion was based on the distinction of the \"formal\" and the \"inner\" side. Therefore, religion in itself was no \"formal\" subject of the social contract, only the acts of a citizen had to be judged, as long as they had violated a \"formal right\" or \"responsibility\". Despite this separation of the religion from the political theory and its reduction to the private sphere, every religion had its own \"inner\" power which Mendelssohn described in the second part.\n\nIn his political theory Moses Mendelssohn had to criticize the present conditions of the Prussian state, and he did without mentioning it, partly for reasons of censorship and partly for rhetorical reasons. This was his polite way to say that its regent was centuries behind his own philosophy:\n\nI have the fortune to live in a state in which my opinions are neither new nor very extraordinary. Its wise regent who rules it, paid always, since the beginning of his reign, attention, that mankind gets its full right concerning all affairs of faith [literally: believe, confession]. […] With wise moderateness he preserved the privilege of the formal religion as he had found it. There are still centuries of civilization and preparation before us, when man will finally understand that privileges of a certain religion are neither based on law nor on the religion's own fundament, so that it will be a real benefit to abolish simply any civil divergence in favour of one religion. However under the rule of this Wise the nation got so accustomed to tolerance and compatibility in respect to other religions, that at least force, bann and the right to exclude are no longer popular terms.\n\nIn consequence the second part on religious power had to criticize the present conditions of that religion which he always had to defend during his life. For these critics he needed the idea that state and religion should be divided, but kept in harmony, as well as the utopic postulation of a just state which should be the political target of a religious community. After this preparation, the finding of the preconditions in his political theory (the key or better: the \"ring\" in his whole argumentation), the first step was to comment the misconceived points of view: the adaptation to despotism, as it was postulated by many Christians discussing the \"amelioration of the Jews\".\n\nTherefore, Moses Mendelssohn refers to his older arguments which he used in his dispute with Lavater – and more recently in response to an anonymous recension of Mendelssohn's introduction to Menassah Ben Israel's \"Vindication of the Jews\". With the medieval metaphor of masonry for the art of memory (often represented allegorically as \"prudence\") and its reference to religious education as a moral and sentimental education, he tried to turn back Lavater's projection. While Christians like to regard the crisis of Judaism, Mendelssohn regards the present situation – in the eve of the French revolution – as a general crisis of religion:\n\nIf it is true, that the cornerstones of my house had become so weak, that the building might tumble down, shall I follow the advice to save my goods from the ground to the upper floor? Will I be safer there? As you know, Christianity is built upon Judaism and so, if the latter tumbles, the former will necessarily fall over it in one heap of rubble.\n\nMendelssohn's house metaphor from the beginning of the first part reappears at the beginning of the second part. Here he used it to reflect the historical fact that Christianity never developed its own ethics independent from the ten commandments, which are still part of the canonic redaction of the Christian Bible.\n\nLavater serves here as a more or less moderate example of the hypocritic religious man, whose religion is the favoured and the dominating one within the political system. Like in Hobbes' scenario he likes, what the system allows him to do – at least in this case: forcing another citizen to convert to the dominating religion.\n\nBut this hypocrisy reflects once more the radicalism of Moses Mendelssohn's contract of tolerance: If the religion's business has to be reduced to the \"inner side\" and religion itself cannot be the formal subject of this contract, it simply means that state affairs like executive, legislature and judiciary will be no longer religious affairs. Nevertheless, he was denying the contemporary practice of rabbinic jurisdiction, which was hardly acceptable for a lot of orthodox Jews. And one year after the publication of his book the denial of rabbinic jurisdiction became political practice in the Habsburg Monarchy, when a state edict, added to the \"tolerance patent\", submitted Jewish subjects to its own law court without regarding them on an equal footing with Christian subjects.\n\nMoses Mendelssohn is supposed to be the first Maskilim of his time who denied the present conditions and the rabbinic practice attached to it. This condition was that each Jewish community had its own jurisdiction and that the coexistence of several communities often corrected judges. His proposition must not only regarded as very modern, it turned out to be substantial during the discussions of the French Legislative Assembly concerning the Jewish emancipation during the 1790s. In these debates Judaism was often supposed to be an \"own nation within the nation\" and the Jewish representatives had to abandon this former status, so that the Jewish population will gain the new status as equal citizens and that they will participate in the new law of the French constitution.\n\nIn his pragmatism Mendelssohn had to convince the Jewish population that they have to abandon the tradition of rabbinic jurisdiction, but in the same time they have no reason to feel inferior, because some Christians believe that the moral conditions of Jewish tradition has to be regarded as inferior to their theological concept of absolution.\n\nIt was up to the Christians to find the way back to their fundament, which was the Mosaic law. But it was up to the Jews to face the present situation, in which Jewish communities were abandoned by a wealthy and privileged minority, so that poverty was increasing rapidly – especially in the town ghettos. In his philosophy Moses Mendelssohn reacted to the change from medieval conditions among the communities, when an elite between rich and rabbinic families was ruling the community. New privileges were granted by the Prussian state to rich members of the community, so that they finally left the community by conversion. But Mendelssohn regarded beneficence less as a \"coerce responsibility\" than as a voluntary act of wealthy members.\n\nMoses Mendelssohn created a syncretism which combined contemporary humanistic idealism and its deistic concept of a natural religion based on rational principles with the living tradition of Ashkenasic Judaism. His adoration of the Mosaic law should not be misunderstood as a kind of historical criticism, it was based on an own politically motivated interpretation of the Torah as a divine revelation which was offered to the prophet Moses, so that he will save Judaism from its materialistic decline, symbolized in worshipping the golden calf and idolatry, by the divine law.\n\nFor Moses Mendelssohn the Mosaic law was \"divine\", as long as the community following its principles would be just. The attribute \"divine\" was simply given by the law's function to create a just social fabric: the social contract in itself. The eternal truth of the law was bound to this function, and it was so less achievable, that any judgement of a rabbi had to be judged according to Salomonic Wisdom. Mendelssohn referred to an anecdote of the Hillel school of Mishnah which has in itself an own theological formulation of the categorical imperative as Kant would later call it on:\n\nA goy said: \"Rabbi, teach me the whole law, on which I stand with one foot!\" Shammai to whom he addressed before with the same impertinence, disregardfully refused him. But Hillel who was famous for his insuperable serenity and mildness, replied: \"Son! love thy neighbour as thyself. [Leviticus 19:18] This is the text of the law, the rest is commentary. Now go and learn!\"\n\nWith this biblical proverb, often quoted in the New Testament including the beatitudes, Mendelssohn returned to the deistic adoration of the Mosaic law as the Jewish-Christian contribution to universal ethics:\n\nThe constitution had been here only once: you may call it the \"mosaic Constitution\", which was its name. It has disappeared, and only the Almighty knows, in which nation and in which century something similar will appear again.\n\n\"Mosaic Constitution\" was just the Jewish name of the democratic constitution, as it was called by their ancestors. And probably some Jews were waiting for it like for a Messiah who would once unban them from feudal slavery.\n\nThe argument through which he inspired Lessing in his drama \"Nathan der Weise\", was the following: Each religion has not to be judged in itself, but only the acts of a citizen who keeps faith with it, according to a just law. This kind of law constitutes a just state, in which the people of different faith may live together in peace.\n\nAccording to his philosophy the new charge of any religion in general was not jurisdiction, but education as a necessary preparation to become a just citizen. Mendelssohn's point of view was that of a teacher who translated a lot of classical rabbinic authors like Maimonides from Hebrew into German, so that a Jewish child would be attracted to learn German and Hebrew in the same time.\n\nAt the end of his book Mendelssohn returns to the real political conditions in Habsburg, French and Prussian Monarchy, because he was often asked to support Jewish communities in their territories. In fact none of these political systems were offering the tolerant conditions, so that every subject should have the same legal status regardless to his or her religious faith. (In his philosophy Mendelssohn discussed the discrimination of the individuum according to its religion, but not according to its gender.) On the other hand, a modern education which Mendelssohn regarded still as a religious affair, required a reformation of the religious communities and especially their organization of the education which has to be modernized.\n\nAs long as the state did not follow John Locke's requirement concerning the \"freedom of conscience\", any trial of an ethic education would be useless at all and every subject would be forced to live in separation according to their religious faith. Reflecting the present conditions Mendelssohn addresses – directly in the second person – to the political authorities:\n\nYou should think, that you are not allowed to return our brotherly love, to unite with us as equal citizens, as long as there is any formal divergence in our religious rite, so that we do not eat together with you and do not marry one of yours, which the founder of your religion, as far as we can see, neither would have done, nor would have allowed us? — If this has to be and to remain your real opinion, as we may not expect of men following the Christian ethos; if a civil unification is only available on the condition that we differ from the law which we are already considering as binding, then we have to announce – with deep regret – that we do better to abstain from the civil unification; then the philanthropist Dohm has probably written in vain and everything will remain on the awkward condition – as it is now and as your charity has chosen it. […] We cannot differ from the law with a clear conscience and what will be your use of citizens without conscience?\n\nIn this paragraph it becomes very evident, that Moses Mendelssohn did not foresee the willingness of some Jewish men and women who left some years later their communities, because they do not want to suffer from a lower legal status any longer.\n\nMoses Mendelssohn risked a lot, when he published this book, not only in front of the Prussian authority, but also in front of religious authorities – including Orthodox Rabbis. The following years some of his famous Christian friends stroke him at his very sensible side: his adoration for Lessing who died 1781 and could not defend his friend as he always had done during his lifetime.\n\nThe strike was done by Lavater's friend Friedrich Heinrich Jacobi who published an episode between himself and Lessing, in which Lessing confessed to be a \"Spinozist\", while reading Goethe's \"Sturm und Drang\" poem \"Prometheus\". \"Spinozism\" became quite fashionable that time and was a rather superficial reception, which was not so much based on a solid knowledge of Spinoza's philosophy than on the \"secret letters\" about Spinoza. These letters circulated since Spinoza's lifetime in the monarchies, where Spinoza's own writings were on the index of the Catholic Inquisition, and often they regarded Spinoza's philosophy as \"atheistic\" or even as a revelation of the secrets of Kabbalah mysticism. The German Spinoza fashion of the 1780s was more a \"pantheistic\" reception which gained the attraction of rebellious \"atheism\", while its followers are returning to a romantic concept of religion. Jacobi was following a new form of German idealism and later joined the romanticist circle around Fichte in Jena. Later, 1819 during the \"hep hep\" riots or pogroms, this new form of idealism turned out to be very intolerant, especially in the reception of Jakob Fries.\n\nThe fashion \"pantheism\" did not correspond to Mendelssohn's deistic reception of Spinoza and Lessing whose collected works he was publishing. He was not so wrong, because Spinoza himself developed a fully rational form of deism in his main work \"Ethica\", without any knowledge of the later \"pantheistic\" reception of his philosophy. Mendelssohn published in his last years his own attitude to Spinoza – not without his misunderstandings, because he was frightened to lose his authority which he still had among rabbis. On his own favor Goethe fashioned himself as a \"revolutionary\" in his \"Dichtung und Wahrheit\", while he was very angry with Jacobi because he feared the consequences of the latter's publication using Goethe's poem. This episode caused a reception in which Moses Mendelssohn as a historical protagonist and his philosophy is underestimated.\n\nNevertheless, Moses Mendelssohn had a great influence on other \"Maskilim\" and on the Jewish emancipation, and on nearly every philosopher discussing the role of the religion within the state in 19th century Western Europe.\n\nMendelssohn's dreams about a tolerant state became reality in the new French Constitution of 1791. Berr Isaac Berr, the Ashkenazic representative in the Legislative Assembly, praised the French republic as the \"Messiah of modern Judaism\", because he had to convince French communities for the new plans of a Jewish reform movement to abandon their autonomy. The French version of Haskalah, called \"régénération\", was more moderate than the Jewish reform movement in Prussia.\n\nWhile better conditions were provided by the constitution of the French Republic, the conflict between Orthodox Rabbis and wealthy and intellectual laymen of the reform movement became evident with the radical initiatives by Mendelssohn's friend and student David Friedländer in Prussia. He was the first who followed Mendelssohn's postulations in education, since he founded 1776 together with Isaak Daniel Itzig the \"Jüdische Freischule für mittellose Berliner Kinder\" (\"Jewish Free School for Impecunious Children in Berlin\") and 1778 the \"Chevrat Chinuch Ne'arim\" (\"Society for the Education of Youth\"). His 1787 attempt of a German translation of the Hebrew prayerbook \"Sefer ha-Nefesh\" (\"Book of the Soul\") which he did for the school, finally became not popular as a ritual reform, because 1799 he went so far to offer his community a \"dry baptism\" as an affiliation by the Lutheran church. There was a seduction of free-thinking Jews to identify the seclusion from European modern culture with Judaism in itself and it could end up in baptism. As Heinrich Heine commented it, some tend to reduce Judaism to a \"calamity\" and to buy with a conversion to Christianity an \"entré billet\" for the higher society of the Prussian state. By the end of the 18th century there were a lot of contemporary concepts of enlightenment in different parts of Europe, in which humanism and a secularized state were thought to replace religion at all.\n\nIsrael Jacobson, himself a merchant, but also an engaged pedagogue in charge of a land rabbi in Westphalia, was much more successful than David Friedländer. Like Moses Mendelssohn he regarded education as a religious affair. One reason for his success was the political fact, that Westphalia became part of France. Jacobson was supported by the new government, when he founded in 1801 a boys' school for trade and elementary knowledge in Seesen (a small town near Harz), called \"Institut für arme Juden-Kinder\". The language used during the lessons was German. His concept of pedagogy combined the ideas of Moses Mendelssohn with those of the socially engaged \"Philantropin\" school which Basedow founded in Dessau, inspired by Rousseau's ideas about education. 1802 also poor Christian boys were allowed to attend the school and it became one of the first schools, which coeducated children of different faith. Since 1810 religious ceremonies were also held in the first Reform Temple, established on the school's ground and equipped by an organ. Before 1810 the Jewish community of the town had their celebrations just in a prayer room of the school. Since 1810 Mendelssohn needed the instrument to accompany German and Hebrew songs, sung by the pupils or by the community in the \"Jacobstempel\". He adapted these prayers himself to tunes, taken from famous Protestant chorales. In the charge of a rabbi he read the whole service in German according to the ideas of the reformed Protestant rite, and he refused the \"medieval\" free rhythmic style of \"chazzan\", as it was common use in the other Synagogues. 1811 Israel Jacobson introduced a \"confirmation\" ceremony of Jewish boys and girls as part of his reformed rite.\n\nSince Westphalia came under Prussian rule according to the Congress of Vienna 1815, the Jacobson family settled to Berlin, where Israel opened a Temple in his own house. The orthodox community of Berlin asked the Prussian authorities to intervene and so his third \"Jacobstempel\" was closed. Prussian officers argued, that the law allows only one house of Jewish worship in Berlin. In consequence a reformed service was celebrated as \"minyan\" in the house of Jacob Herz Beer. The chant was composed by his son who later became a famous opera composer under the name Giacomo Meyerbeer. In opposition to Israel's radical refuse of the traditional Synagogue chant, Meyerbeer reintegrated the \"chazzan\" and the recitation of Pentateuch and Prophets into the reformed rite, so that it became more popular within the community of Berlin.\n\nJohann Gottfried Herder's appreciation of the Mosaic Ethics was influenced by Mendelssohn's book \"Jerusalem\" as well as by personal exchange with him. It seems that in the tradition of Christian deistic enlightenment the Torah was recognized as an important contribution to the Jewish-Christian civilization, though contemporary Judaism was often compared to the decadent situation, when Aaron created the golden calf (described in Exodus 32), so enlightenment itself was fashioning itself with the archetypical role of Moses. But the contemporary Jewish population was characterized by Herder as a strange Asiatic and selfish \"nation\" which was always separated from others, not a very original conception which was also popular in the discussions of the National Assembly which insisted that Jewish citizens have to give up their status as a nation, if they want to join the new status as equal citizens.\n\nWhen Hegel was still in Heidelberg, he was accusing his colleague Jakob Fries, himself a student of Fichte, for his superstitious ideas concerning a German nation and he disregarded his antisemitic activities as a mentor of the Burschenschaft which organized the Wartburgfest, the murder of August von Kotzebue and the hep hep riots. In 1819 he went with his students to the hep hep riot in Heidelberg and they were standing with raised arms before the people who lived in the poverty of the Jewish ghetto, when the violent mob was arriving. As result he asked his student Friedrich Wilhelm Carové to found the first student association which also allows access for Jewish students, and finally Eduard Gans founded in November the \"Verein für Kultur und Wissenschaft der Juden [Society for Culture and Science of the Jews]\" on the perspective that the ideas of enlightenment must be replaced by a \"synthesis\" of European Jewish and Christian traditions. This perspective followed some fundamental ideas which Hegel developed in his dialectic philosophy of history, and it was connected with hopes that finally an enlightened state will secularize religious traditions and fulfill their responsibility. In some respect this \"synthesis\" was expected as a kind of revolution, though an identification with the demagogues was not possible—as Heinrich Heine said in a letter 1823:\n\nEven though I am a Radical in Britain and a Carbonari in Italy, I do certainly not belong to the demagogues in Germany—just for the very simple reason that in case of the latter's victory some thousand Jewish throats will be cut—the best ones first.\n\nIn the last two years Prussia passed many restrictive laws which excluded Jews from military and academic offices and as members of parliament. The expectation that the Prussian state will once follow the reasons of Hegel's \"Weltgeist\", failed, instead it was turning backwards and the restrictions increased up to 1841, whereas the officer Dohm expected a participation as equal citizens for 1840. Moses Mendelssohn who was regarded as a Jewish Luther by Heinrich Heine, made several predictions of the future in \"Jerusalem\". The worst of them became true, and finally a lot of Jewish citizens differed from the law and became what Mendelssohn called \"citizens without conscience\". Because there was no \"freedom of conscience\" in Prussia, Heinrich Heine left the \"Verein\" without any degree in law and finally—like Eduard Gans himself—converted to the Lutheran church 1825.\n\nKarl Marx was not a direct student of Hegel, but Hegel's philosophy, whose lectures were also frequented by Prussian officers, was still very present after his death in 1831 as well among conservatives as among radicals who were very disappointed about the present conditions and the failed reform of the state. 1835, when Karl inscribed as a student, Hegel's book \"Leben Jesu\" was published posthumously and its reception was divided into the so-called Right or Old and the Left or Young Hegelians around Bruno Bauer and Ludwig Feuerbach. Karl had grown up in a family which were related to the traditional rabbinic family Levi through his mother. Because the Rhine province became part of the French Republic, where the full civil rights were granted by the Constitution, Marx's father could work as a lawyer (\"Justizrat\") without being discriminated for his faith. This changed, when the Rhine province became part of Prussia after the Congress of Vienna. In 1817 Heinrich Marx felt forced to convert to the Lutheran church, so that he could save the existence of his family continuing his profession. In 1824 his son was baptized, when he was six years old.\n\nThe occasion that the Jewish question was debated again, was the 7th Landtag of the Rhine province 1843. The discussion was about an 1839 law which tried to withdraw the Hardenberg edict from 1812. 1839 it was refused by the Staatsrat, 1841 it was published again to see what the public reactions would be. The debate was opened between Ludwig Philippson (\"Allgemeine Zeitung des Judentums\") and Carl Hermes (\"Kölnische Zeitung\"). Karl Marx was thinking to join the debate with an own answer of the Jewish question, but he left it to Bruno Bauer. His later answer was mainly a reception of Bauer's argument. Marx's and Bauer's polemic style was probably influenced by Heinrich Heine's \"Damascus letters\" (Lutetia Teil 1, 1840) in which Heine was calling James Mayer de Rothschild a \"revolutionary\" and in which he used phrases such as:\n\nFor French Jews as well for all the other French gold is the God of the day and industry the dominating religion!\n\nWhereas Hegel's idea of a humanistic secularization of religious values was deeply rooted in the idealistic emancipation debates around Mendelssohn in which a liberal and tolerant state has to be created on the fundament of a modern (religious) education, the only force of modernization according to Marx was capitalism, the erosion of traditional values, after they had turned into material values. The difference between the \"ancien régime\" and Rothschild, chosen as a representant of a successful minority of the Jewish population, was that they had nothing to lose, especially not in Prussia where this minority finally tended to convert to Christianity. But since the late 18th century the Prussian Jews were merely reduced to their material value, at least from the administrative perspective of the Prussian Monarchy.\n\nMarx's answer to Mendelssohn's question: \"What will be your use of citizens without conscience?\" was simply that: The use was now defined as a material value which could be expressed as a sum of money, and the Prussian state like any other monarchy finally did not care about anything else.\n\nBauer's reference to the golden calf may be regarded a modern form of antisemitism. But Karl Marx turned Bauer's reference into a \"syncretism between Mosaic monotheism and Babylonian polytheism\". His answer was antisemitic, as far as it was antisemitic that his family was forced to leave their religious tradition for very existential reasons. He hardly foresaw that the rhetorical use of Judaism as a metaphor of capitalism (originally a satirical construction of Heinrich Heine, talking about the \"prophet Rothschild\") will be constantly repeated in a completely unsatirical way in the history of socialism. Karl Marx used these words in a less satirical than in an antihumanistic way. Its context was the controversy between Old and Young Hegelian and his polemic aimed the \"Old Hegelian\". He regarded their thoughts as a Prussian form of the \"ancien régime\", figured and justified as the humanists, and himself as part of a Jewish privileged minority which was more adapted to modern citizenship than any representant of the Prussian \"ancien régime\". While the humanists felt threatened by the industrial revolution, also because they simply feared to lose their privileges, it was no longer the \"parvenu\" (as Bernard Lazare would call the rich minority later) who needed to be \"ameliorated\".\n\nMoses Mendelssohn was not mentioned in Marx's answer to the Jewish question, but Marx might have regarded his arguments as an important part of the humanists' approach to ameliorate the Prussian constitution. Nevertheless, Mendelssohn had already discussed the problem of injustice caused by material needs in his way: In \"Jerusalem\" he advised to recompense politicians according to the loss of their regular income. It should not be lower for a rich man, and not higher for a poor. Because if anyone will have a material advantage, just by being a member of parliament, the result cannot be a fair state governing a just society. Only an idealistic citizen who was engaging in politics according to his modern religious education, was regarded as a politician by Moses Mendelssohn.\n\nKarl Marx's point of view that the idealistic hopes for religious tolerance will be disappointed in the field of politics, and soon the political expectations will disappear in a process of economical evolution and of secularization of their religious values, was finally confirmed by the failure of the 1848 revolution. Though the fact that revolutionary antisemitism was used frequently by left and right wing campaigners, for him it was more than just rhetoric. His own cynical and refusing attitude concerning religion was widespread among his contemporaries and it was related with the own biography and a personal experience full of disappointments and conflicts within the family. Equal participation in political decisions was not granted by a national law as they hoped, the participation was merely dependent on privileges which were defined by material values and these transformations cause a lot of fears and the tendence to turn backwards. Even in France where the constitution granted the equal status as citizens since 100 years, the Dreyfus affair made evident that a lot of institutions of the French Republic like the military forces were already ruled by the circles of the \"ancien régime\". So the major population was still excluded from participation and could not identify with the state and its authorities. Social movements and emigration to America or to Palestine were the response, often in a combination. The utopies of these movements were sometimes secular, sometimes religious, and they often had charismatic leaders.\n\n1897 there was the First Zionist Congress in Basel (Switzerland), which was an initiative by Theodor Herzl. The Zionist Martin Buber with his rather odd combination of German Romanticism (Fichte) and his interest in Hasidism as a social movement was not very popular on the Congress, but he finally found a very enthusiastic reception in a Zionist student association in Prague, which was also frequented by Max Brod and Franz Kafka. In a time when the Jewish question has become a highly ideological matter mainly treated in a populistic way from outside, it became a rather satirical subject for Jewish writers of Yiddish, German, Polish and Russian language.\n\nFranz Kafka learned Yiddish and Hebrew as an adult and he had a great interest for Hasidism as well as for rabbinic literature. He had a passion for Yiddish drama which became very popular in Central Europe that time and which brought Yiddish literature, usually written as narrative prosa, on stage mixed up with a lot of music (parodies of synagogue songs etc.). His interest corresponded to Martin Buber's romantic idea that Hasidism was the folk culture of Ashkenazi Jews, but he also realized that this romanticism inspired by Fichte and German nationalism, expressed the fact that the rural traditions were another world quite far from its urban admirers. This had changed since Maskilim and school reformers like Israel Jakobson have settled to the big towns and still disregarded Yiddish as a \"corrupt\" and uneducated language.\n\nIn the parable of his romance \"Der Process\", published 1915 separately as short story entitled \"Vor dem Gesetz\", the author made a parody of a midrash legend, written during the period of early Merkabah mysticism (6th century), that he probably learned by his Hebrew teacher. This \"Pesikhta\" described Moses' meditation in which he had to fight against Angelic guardians on his way to the divine throne in order to bring justice (the Torah) to the people of Israel.\n\nSomehow it also reflected Mendelssohn's essay in the context of the public debate on the Jewish question during the 1770s and 1780s, which was mainly led by Christian priests and clerics, because this parable in the romance was part of a Christian prayer. A mysterious priest prayed only for the main protagonist \"Josef K.\" in the dark empty cathedral. The bizarre episode in the romance reflected the historical fact that Jewish emancipation had taken place within Christian states, where the separation between state power and the church was never fully realized. There were several similar parodies by Jewish authors of the 19th century in which the Christians dominating the state and the citizens of other faith correspond to the jealous guardians. Unlike the prophet Moses who killed the angel guarding the first gate, the peasant (\"ein Mann vom Lande\") in the parable is waiting to his death, when he finally will be carried through the gate which was only made for him. In the narration of the romance which was never published during his lifetime, the main protagonist Josef K. will finally be killed according to a judgement which was never communicated to him.\n\nHannah Arendt's political theory is deeply based on theological and existentialist arguments, regarding Jewish Emancipation in Prussia as a failure – especially in her writings after World War II. But the earliest publication discussing the Haskalah with respect to the German debate of the Jewish Question opened by Christian Wilhelm von Dohm and Moses Mendelssohn dates to 1932. In her essay Hannah Arendt takes Herder's side in reviving the debate among Dohm, Mendelssohn, Lessing and Herder. According to her Moses Mendelssohn's concept of emancipation was assimilated to the pietist concept of Lessing's enlightenment based on a separation between the truth of reason and the truth of history, which prepared the following generation to decide for the truth of reason and against history and Judaism which was identified with an unloved past. Somehow her theological argument was very similar to that of Kant, but the other way round. For Kant as a Lutheran Christian religion started with the destruction and the disregard of the Mosaic law, whereas Herder as a Christian understood the Jewish point of view in so far, that this is exactly the point where religion ends. According to Hannah Arendt the Jews were forced by Mendelssohn's form of Haskalah to insert themselves into a Christian version of history in which Jews had never existed as subjects:\n\nIn consequence the Jews have become without history in history. According to Herder's understanding of history they are separated from their own past. So again they are in front of nothing. Within a historical reality, within the European secularized world, they are forced to adapt somehow to this world, to educate themselves. They need education for everything which is not part of the Jewish world. The actual reality has come into effect with all its power, because they are separated from their own past. Culture is the only way to endure this present. As long as culture is the proper perception of the past, the \"educated\" Jew is depending on a foreign past. One will reach it through a certain present, just because one participated in it.\n\nAlthough her point of view was often misunderstood as a prejudice against Judaism, because she often also described forms of opportunism among Jewish citizens, her main concern was totalitarianism and the anachronistic mentality of the \"ancien régime\", as well as a postwar criticism, which was concerned with the limits of modern democracy. Her method was arguably idiosyncratic. For instance, she used Marcel Proust's romance \"À la recherche du temps perdu\" as a historical document and partly developed her arguments on Proust's observations of Faubourg de Saint Germain, but the publication of her book in 1951 made her very popular, because she also included an early analysis of Stalinism. Seven years later she finally published her biographical study about Rahel Varnhagen. Here she concludes that the emancipation failed exactly with Varnhagen's generation, when the wish to enter the Prussian upper society was related with the decision to leave the Jewish communities. According to her, a wealthy minority, which she called \"parvenues\", tried to join the privileges of the ruling elite of Prussia. The term \"parvenu\" was taken from Bernard Lazare and she regarded it as an alternative to Max Weber's term \"pariah.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26154305", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26154305", "title": "JumpStart Kindergarten", "text": "JumpStart Kindergarten\n\nJumpStart Kindergarten (known as Jump Ahead Classic Kindergarten in the UK) is an educational personal computer game developed by Fanfare Software and released by Knowledge Adventure on the MS-DOS platform in 1994 (v1.0). It was the first product released in the JumpStart series and, as its name suggests, it is intended to teach kindergarten students. It was ported to the Windows and Macintosh systems in 1995 (v1.2). It was updated with a new version in 1998 (v2.0). In 2000, the game was specially designed on VHS. That same year it was updated with additional content in a 2-CD Deluxe version in 2000 (v2.6), that included \"JumpStart Around the World\". Eventually it was replaced in 2002 by \"JumpStart Advanced Kindergarten\".\n\nThe game takes place in a kindergarten schoolhouse. The game is hosted by the teacher, an anthropomorphic gray bunny named Mr. Hopsalot. The specifics of the game vary from the two versions, but in both the user may access educational activities and simple games by clicking on objects. In the early version, all of the activities are accessible from a single screen inside the classroom. In the re-release, different areas of the classroom and the nearby areas outside containing activities may be explored and as a new addition playing activities earns the player stars.\n\n"}
{"id": "6522682", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6522682", "title": "Katalin Bogyay", "text": "Katalin Bogyay\n\nKatalin Annamária Bogyay (born 20 August 1956) is a Hungarian diplomat, currently serving as the Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary and Permanent Representative of Hungary to the United Nations in New York since 1 January 2015-. She is the former Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary and Permanent Delegate of Hungary to UNESCO (2009–2014) and the President of the 36th session of UNESCO General Conference (2011–2013).\n\nKatalin Bogyay was born in Székesfehérvár, Hungary. She graduated in Economics at the Corvinus University of Budapest and obtained a Master of Arts in Communications from the University of Westminster(London) with Chevening Scholarship.\n\nShe began her career as a theatre and music critic, later becoming a presenter, producer and senior editor of Music and the Arts at the Hungarian National Television (\"Magyar Televízió\" or MTV). Following the fall of communism, in 1990 she became the first Hungarian television personality to be awarded a Know How Fund Scholarship to study media in democracy at the BBC.\n\nAfter hosting galas and interviewing celebrities from all over the world, she hosted her own show, \"Katalin Bogyay and her Guests\" (2003-2004, MTV/Hungary). Bogyay went on to become an international broadcaster and documentary filmmaker, working throughout the 1990s as an independent producer based in London notably for European Business News, BBC Radio, Global Vision Network, MTV, Danube TV.\n\nIn 1999 she became a diplomat and began working for the Hungarian Ministry for Culture. As Director General she opened the Hungarian Cultural Centre in 1999 in the heart of London's Covent Garden. She was the director of the Centre until 2006. To mark Hungary's entry to the EU in 2004, Bogyay created Magyar Magic, a seventeen-month long festival celebrating Hungarian talent throughout Britain under the dual patronage of Queen Elizabeth II and H.E. Dr. Ferenc Mádl, the President of the Republic of Hungary.\n\nIn 2007 Bogyay was selected by the London School of Economics as one of the Top 50 thinkers in the publication EU The Next Fifty Years. In her invited editorial she wrote about the new European cultural space.\nIn 2007 she represented Eastern, Central and Southern Europe as one of the deputy chairpersons of the Cultural Committee at the UNESCO's General Conference. Between July 2006 and April 2009, she served as the State Secretary for International Affairs at the Hungarian Ministry of Education and Culture. Since September 2009 until December 2014 she was based in Paris as Hungary's Ambassador to UNESCO. In 2009 she served as one of the vice presidents of the 35th General Conference of the UNESCO.\n\nOn 5 October 2011 UNESCO's Executive Board unanimously proposed Bogyay as President of UNESCO's 36th General Conference. On 25 October 2011, the General Conference of unanimously elected Bogyay as President of UNESCO's 36th General Conference. She succeeded Davidson L. Hepburn (Commonwealth of The Bahamas) who presided the 35th session. On 5 November 2013 the General Conference elected Hao Ping, the Vice-Minister of Education of China as President of UNESCO's 37th General Conference.\n\nShe was appointed Ambassador and Permanent Representative of Hungary to the UN in New York and took office as head of the Hungarian Mission to the UN in New York on 1 January 2015.\n\nShe chaired the United Nations Committee on Conferences in 2016-2017. The Conference Committee decides upon the yearly Calendar of Conferences of all UN duty stations, ensures that conference services, translation and interpretation work smoothly during all UN meetings. \n\nIn January 2017, the President of the General Assembly appointed Tajikistan and Hungary, H.E. Ms Katalin Bogyay, Permanent Representative to the UN as Co-Moderators of the working-level dialogue to discuss improving the integration and coordination of the work of the United Nations on the water-related Sustainable Development (SDG) goals and targets, as well as a subsequent dialogue to take stock of progress made and exchange views on possible next steps. \nThe activities of the mission can be reached at https://un-newyork.mfa.gov.hu/.\n\nShe is a vocal advocate of women’s empowerment, a Gender Champion and started a thematic meeting series of the Circle of Women Ambassador in the UN to cover issues such as implementation of the SDGs or preventive diplomacy. \n\nAfter the crush of the 1956 revolution, since the Security Council was unable to act, it was the General Assembly that adopted a number of resolutions on the matter and established the so-called Special Committee on the Problem of Hungary. \n\nThe UN Archives keeps numerous documents concerning the 1956 Revolution and the following events. In 2016 Ambassador Bogyay, with the support of the Hungarian Government, requested to open and declassify the previously classified documents after 60 years for research purposes. The UN Secretariat opened up more than 400 pages of previously classified documents for research purposes. Moreover, more than 1000 pages of UN documents kept at Columbia University have also been declassified, and are therefore available for public research. \n\nAmbassador Bogyay hosted a series of events, including a roundtable discussion on the “1956 Hungarian Revolution and the 20th Century Democratization Processes\" as well as a historic panel discussion to honor the memory of Povl Bang-Jensen.Under her leadership, Hungary, for the first time, co-hosted the UN Day Gala Concert, that marks the birth of the United Nations in 1945 through the universal language of music. The theme of this year’s concert was “Freedom First”. The Permanent Mission of Hungary to the United Nations and iASK Institute of Advance Studies Kőszeg published book A CRY FOR FREEDOM: Reflections on the 1956 Hungarian Revolution at the UN and Beyond by Ambassador Bogyay as well as created Statues of Remembrance by Hedva Ser, UNESCO Goodwill Ambassador és Special Envoy for Cultural Diplomacy, based on the concept of the Ambassador.\n\nShe is a Fellow of the Royal Society of Arts (FRSA) and of the World Academy of Art and Science (FWAAS). In 2005, she was awarded the Knight's Cross Order of Merit of the Republic of Hungary for her contribution to international culture. In 2012, she was awarded an Honorary Doctor of Letters from the University of Glasgow for her work in building cultural links between Hungary and Scotland, as well as promoting cultural diversity and cultural diplomacy throughout the world. In 2013, on the occasion of the 50th anniversary of the International Fair Play Committee Bogyay was awarded the Special Trophy of Fair Play to her contribution in sports diplomacy.\nIn 2014, she was awarded the Commander's Cross of the Order of Merit of the Republic of Hungary for her achievements in culture and cultural diplomacy.\nShe is an International Advisory Board Member of the Institute for Cultural Diplomacy (ICD - Berlin) and President of the Program The Arts and Cultural Diplomacy. \nIn 2016, she was awarded a Doctor Honoris Causa from the Pannon University for her work in multilateral and cultural diplomacy. In 2016 she received the Global Citizenship Award from the James Jay Dudley Luce Foundation for embodying the characteristics of honor, intelligence, benevolence, and integrity Ambassador Bogyay received an Honorary Professor distinction from the Utah Valley University in April 2016. On the occasion of the United Nations Day in 2017 she received the “Spirit of the UN – 2017” Award of the NGO Committee on Spirituality, Values and Global Concern. Ambassador Bogyay received the “Women of Distinction 2017 – Global Leadership Award in Social Justice/Development” by the Celebrating Women International in 2017.\n\nShe has published several books: a biography on Hungarian actress Margit Dajka (1989, Officina Nova, Budapest ) as well as another biographical work on János Pilinszky, a Hungarian poet (1990, Officina Nova, Budapest). Találkozásaim a nagyvilágban (My encounters around the globe) is a collection of interviews with internationally acclaimed artists and scientists (1996, H.G.& Co.Budapest). The Voice of Freedom-A szabadság hangja (2006, HCC, London ) is a compilation of interviews on the subject of the 1956 revolution. In the interview book: A Magyar kultúra szolgálatában (Serving Hungarian Culture, interviewed by Hedvig Dvorszky, 2010, Kairosz), Budapest she gives an insight about her professional life. The Art of Cultural Diplomacy: Panorama of the Presidency, (2013, Espace Cinko- UNESCO, Paris) and Elnökségem története (2014, Holnap Kiadó, Budapest) are about her work as the President of UNESCO`s General Conference (2011–13). In 2017, it was published in China by Yilin Press. Her book on the 1956 Revolution at the UN called “A CRY FOR FREEDOM: Reflections on the 1956 Hungarian Revolution at the UN and Beyond” was published in 2017 in New York.\n\nHer husband is a lawyer in Budapest and her son Tamás is an associate attorney in the London office of Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher LLP.\n\n"}
{"id": "13029223", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13029223", "title": "Lectures on History and General Policy", "text": "Lectures on History and General Policy\n\nLectures on History and General Policy (1788) is the published version of a set of lectures on history and government given by the 18th-century British polymath Joseph Priestley to the students of Warrington Academy.\n\nThe \"Lectures\" cover an array of topics—\"forms of government, the feudal system, the rise of corporations, law, agriculture, commerce, the arts, finance and taxation, colonies, manners, population, war and peace\"—demonstrating how all-encompassing Priestley believed the study of history to be. Priestley offers a version of history in which all events are \"an exhibition of the ways of God;\" studying history and nature, according to Priestley, \"leads us to the knowledge of his perfections and of his will.\" Understanding history thus allows one to comprehend the natural laws God established and the perfection towards which they allow the world to tend. This millennial outlook is tied together with Priestley's belief in scientific progress and the improvement of the human race. Priestley maintained that each age improves upon the previous and studying history allows people to see and participate in that progress. Priestley's millennial conception of history was in direct contrast to the two dominant historical paradigms of the time: Edward Gibbon's decline narrative found in the \"Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire\" and David Hume's cyclical narrative found in his \"History of England\".\n\nThe philosophical underpinning of Priestley's millennial view of history was David Hartley's theory of association laid out in \"Observations on Man\" (1749). Hartley's associationism, an expansion of John Locke's theories in \"Essay Concerning Human Understanding\" (1690, postulated that the human mind operated according to natural laws and that the most important law for the formation of the self was \"associationism.\" For Hartley, associationism was a physical process: vibrations in the physical world travelled through the nerves attached to people's sense organs and ended up in their brains. The brain connected the vibrations of whatever sensory input it was receiving with whatever feelings or ideas that the brain was simultaneously \"thinking.\" These \"associations\" were impossible to avoid, formed as they were simply by experiencing the world; they were also the foundation of a person's character. Locke famously warns against letting \"a foolish maid\" convince a child that \"goblins and sprites\" are associated with the darkness, for \"darkness shall ever afterwards bring with it those frightful ideas, and they shall be so joined, that he can no more bear the one than the other.\" Associationism provided the scientific basis for Priestley's belief that man is \"perfectible\" and served as the foundation for all of his pedagogical innovations.\n\nBecause Priestley viewed education as one of the primary forces shaping a person's character as well as the basis of morality, he, unusually for his time, promoted the education of women. Alluding to the language of Locke's \"Essay Concerning Human Understanding\", he wrote: \"certainly, the minds of women are capable of the same improvement, and the same furniture, as those of men.\" He argued that if women were to care for children and be intellectually stimulating companions for their husbands, they had to be well-educated. Although Priestley advocated education for middle-class women, he did not extend this logic to the poor.\n\nPriestley also presented a method for historical research and was one of the first to argue for the primacy of original documents in the study of history. He contended that much could be learned from \"material evidence\" of former civilisations, such as \"ancient coins, medals and inscriptions,\" as well as \"exchequer rolls, public and private ledger books, letters, diaries, monetary, financial and exchange systems, systems of fortifications and city plans . . . [in addition to] ballads and works of fiction.\"\n\n\"Lectures\" was well received and was employed by many educational institutions, such as the Dissenting academy at Hackney, Brown, Princeton, Yale and Cambridge.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15099450", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15099450", "title": "List of nature centres in Canada", "text": "List of nature centres in Canada\n\nThis is a list of nature centres and environmental education centres in Canada.\n\n"}
{"id": "22394192", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22394192", "title": "Lyrasis", "text": "Lyrasis\n\nLYRASIS was created in April 2009 from the merger of SOLINET and PALINET, two US based library networks. NELINET, the New England library network, also merged into LYRASIS in late 2009. In January 2011, the Bibliographical Center for Research, Denver, CO (BCR) phased out operations and joined LYRASIS. \n\nA non-profit membership organization committed to serving archives, libraries and museums of all types, LYRASIS was established in April 2009, with a collective history of legacy networks that dates back to 1936. \n\nLYRASIS is a 501 c 3 nonprofit membership organization whose mission is to support enduring access to the world’s shared academic, scientific and cultural heritage through leadership in open technologies, content services, digital solutions and collaboration with archives, libraries, museums and knowledge communities worldwide. LYRASIS organizational and staff values are: communication, respect, collaboration, impact, and service.\n\nLYRASIS was created by its members to help them tackle wide-reaching challenges with a collective strength, including: the development and selection of new technology solutions; fostering community-wide projects that help deliver better outcomes and services; content creation, acquisition and management; support for new content models and strategies; and large-scale knowledge management programs unique to collections-holding institutions. \n\nWith an organizational history dating back to 1936, LYRASIS is home to more than 1,000 member academic and public libraries, museums, archives and other collections-holding organizations located in 28 countries. With a global staff of over 50 experts and professionals, LYRASIS is organized into three primary units of focus – community supported/open source software, technology hosting services and content creation and acquisition. In addition to these business units, we also offer specific programs such as consulting, training, fiscal services and more.\n\nSupporting these three units are dedicated teams including member outreach and member services (sales and customer service), marketing and communication, fiscal operations, grant writing and licensing. These are unique functional areas and benefits afforded the member. \n\nLYRASIS supports a diverse membership that includes academic, public, special, and school libraries, as well as archives museums and state libraries. \n\nIn June 2015, Robert Miller replaced Kate Nevins as the Executive Director of LYRASIS.\n\nCommunity Supported Open Source Software – LYRASIS is the structural and fiscal organizational home to two open source software solutions that have a combined membership of over 350 institutions. This unique model allows for community-driven governance and contribution to work inside the boundaries and security of a professionally managed host organization.\n\nTechnology Hosting Services – LYRASIS is an active leader and supporter within different software communities. LYRASIS oversees the hosting and migration services for over 100 institutions from community software platforms. In addition, the software engineers and program managers from LYRASIS contribute code, training and documentation to the community.\n\nContent Creation and Acquisition – LYRASIS is responsible for the negotiation of contracts with over 80 publishers, vendors, and partnering organizations. As such, LYRASIS members do not have to worry about skill gaps or contractual risk as group size is leveraged in expert license negotiation for multi-million dollar contracts. The LYRASIS reputation is one of active leadership in Open Access publishing models through partnership, advocacy and fiscal agency. In addition, LYRASIS has a long legacy of digitization services, enabling participants to digitize their collections with best practices and at favorable prices. \n\nConsulting and Training – LYRASIS has world-class experts who assist members in digitization, preservation, digital preservation, disaster preparedness and strategic planning.  LYRASIS consultants and instructors help institutions make the most of their collections and ensure long-term access.\n\nFiscal Services – LYRASIS assists more than 500 institutions manage their annual budgets by allowing them to deposit funds for future use, protecting it from unanticipated budget adjustments.\n\nLeader’s Circle, Leaders Forum and Catalyst Fund – More than 200 LYRASIS members are actively involved in these programs so far, engaging in early innovation exploration, cross-institution collaboration and initial vetting of ideas, services and programs. Our members work together on new ideas and trends throughout the year in informal forums. Catalyst Fund ideas submitted by members are then selected by vote of the Leaders Circle to be funded. During the annual Member Summit, Catalyst Fund recipients report on progress and members work together to consider future directions for funded projects, including expansion and potential grant or business planning. Through these leadership programs, LYRASIS members are able to participate in the creation and fruition of new ideas all the way through the life cycle of a program.\n\nInvestments – LYRASIS works closely with members to submit and receive grants from foundations such as The Andrew W. Mellon Foundation, The Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation and The Alfred P. Sloan Foundation to support ideas and programs on behalf of its members and other libraries, archives and museums who need access to these innovative programs. Furthermore LYRASIS has reinvested proceeds from its traditional investments into potential ideas, program and solutions to benefit its membership.\n\nA strategic focus for LYRASIS since 2013 has been supporting open source software communities that are created and designed for archives, libraries, museums and other cultural heritage communities. LYRASIS serves as the organizational home for two open source communities, ArchivesSpace and CollectionSpace, and offers hosting, support and code contributions to two more open source programs, Islandora and Library Simplified.\n\nArchivesSpace is a next-generation web-based archives information management system, designed by archivists and supported by diverse archival repositories.\n\nCollectionSpace is a web-based, open source collections management software for museums and more.\n\nIslandora is an open-source software framework designed to help institutions and organizations and their audiences collaboratively manage, and discover digital assets using a best-practices framework.\n\nLibrary Simplifed is an open source, community focused tool originally designed by the New York Public Library that helps libraries manage their eContent and make it accessible to patrons and users worldwide.\n\n"}
{"id": "12993825", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12993825", "title": "MMR vaccine controversy", "text": "MMR vaccine controversy\n\nA controversy surrounding the combined measles, mumps, and rubella (MMR) vaccine started with the 1998 publication of a fraudulent research paper in \"The Lancet\" linking the vaccine to colitis and autism spectrum disorders. The claims in the paper were widely reported, leading to a sharp drop in vaccination rates in the UK and Ireland and increases in the incidence of measles and mumps, resulting in deaths and serious permanent injuries. Following the initial claims in 1998, multiple large epidemiological studies were undertaken. Reviews of the evidence by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, the American Academy of Pediatrics, the Institute of Medicine of the US National Academy of Sciences, the UK National Health Service, and the Cochrane Library all found no link between the MMR vaccine and autism.\n\nAn investigation by journalist Brian Deer found that Andrew Wakefield, the author of the original research paper linking the vaccine to autism, had multiple undeclared conflicts of interest, had manipulated evidence, and had broken other ethical codes. The \"Lancet\" paper was partially retracted in 2004 and fully retracted in 2010, when \"Lancet\"s editor-in-chief Richard Horton described it as \"utterly false\" and said that the journal had been deceived. Wakefield was found guilty by the General Medical Council of serious professional misconduct in May 2010 and was struck off the Medical Register, meaning he could no longer practise as a doctor in the UK. In 2011, Deer provided further information on Wakefield's improper research practices to the \"British Medical Journal\", which in a signed editorial described the original paper as fraudulent. The scientific consensus is that there is no link between the MMR vaccine and autism and that the vaccine's benefits greatly outweigh its risks.\n\nWakefield's paper was described as \"perhaps, the most damaging medical hoax of the last 100 years\". Physicians, medical journals, and editors have described Wakefield's actions as fraudulent and tied them to epidemics and deaths.\n\nBefore the autism-related controversy started in 1998, some concern had already arisen about the safety of the MMR vaccine due to side effects associated with the Urabe mumps strain, including rare adverse events of aseptic meningitis, a transient mild form of viral meningitis. A late-1980s trial in Britain of a form of the MMR vaccine containing the Urabe mumps strain produced three cases of probably associated febrile convulsions per 1,000 vaccinations. Concerns about adverse reactions to the vaccine were raised by American and Canadian authorities based on reports from Japan linking Urabe MMR with meningoencephalitis. Canadian authorities withdrew a Urabe-based vaccine in the late 1980s.\n\nThe UK National Health Service introduced an MMR vaccine using the Urabe mumps strain in 1988, replacing it entirely with the Jeryl Lynn strain in September 1992 following the identification of an unacceptable risk of aseptic meningitis 15–35 days after vaccination. With no such risk seen in vaccines using the Jeryl Lynn mumps strain, the UK NHS withdrew two of the three MMR vaccines then available (Immravax, made by Merieux UK, and Pluserix, made by SmithKline Beecham) in favor of Merck Sharp and Dohme's MMR II brand, based on the Jeryl Lynn strain. Although MMR administration did continue with MMR II, the MMR vaccination rate first began to fall after 1996, following claims by Wakefield that it was linked to Crohn's disease.\n\nThe Urabe strain remains in use in a number of countries; MMR with the Urabe strain is much cheaper to manufacture than with the Jeryl Lynn strain, and a strain with higher efficacy along with a somewhat higher rate of mild side effects may still have the advantage of reduced incidence of overall illness.\n\nIn the wake of the measles outbreaks, which occurred in England in 1992, and on the basis of analyses of seroepidemiological data combined with mathematical modeling, British Health authorities predicted a major resurgence of measles in school-age children. Two strategies were then examined: either to target vaccination at all children without a history of prior measles vaccination or to immunize all children irrespective of vaccination history. In November 1994, the latter option was chosen and a national measles and rubella vaccination campaign, described as \"one of the most ambitious vaccination initiatives that Britain has undertaken\" was commenced: within one month, 92% of the 7.1 million schoolchildren in England aged 5–16 years received measles and rubella (MR) vaccine.\n\nIn April 1994, Richard Barr, a solicitor, succeeded in winning legal aid for the pursuit of a class action lawsuit against the manufacturers of MMR vaccines under the UK Consumer Protection Act 1987. The class action case was aimed at Aventis Pasteur, SmithKline Beecham, and Merck, manufacturers respectively of Immravax, Pluserix-MMR and MMR II. This suit, based on a claim that MMR is a defective product and should not have been used, was the first big class action lawsuit funded by the Legal Aid Board (which became the Legal Services Commission, which in turn was replaced by the Legal Aid Agency) after its formation in 1988. Noticing two publications from Andrew Wakefield that explored the role of measles virus in Crohn's disease and inflammatory bowel disease, Barr contacted Wakefield for his expertise. According to Wakefield supporters, the two men first met on 6 January 1996. The Legal Services Commission halted proceedings in September 2003, citing a high probability of failure based on the medical evidence, bringing an end to the first case of research funding by the LSC.\n\nIn February 1998, a group led by Andrew Wakefield published a fraudulent paper in the respected British medical journal \"The Lancet\", supported by a press conference at the Royal Free Hospital in London. This paper reported on twelve children with developmental disorders referred to the Royal Free Hospital. The parents or physicians of eight of these children were said to have linked the start of behavioral symptoms to MMR vaccination. The paper described a collection of bowel symptoms, endoscopy findings and biopsy findings that were said to be evidence of a possible novel syndrome that Wakefield would later call autistic enterocolitis, and recommended further study into the possible link between the condition and the MMR vaccine. The paper suggested that the connection between autism and the gastrointestinal pathologies was real, but said it did not prove an association between the MMR vaccine and autism.\n\nAt the press conference before the paper's publication, later criticized as \"science by press conference\", Wakefield said that he thought it prudent to use single vaccines instead of the MMR triple vaccine until this could be ruled out as an environmental trigger; parents of eight of the twelve children studied were said to have blamed the MMR vaccine, saying that symptoms of autism had set in within days of vaccination at approximately 14 months. Wakefield said, \"I can't support the continued use of these three vaccines given in combination until this issue has been resolved.\" In a video news release issued by the hospital to broadcasters in advance of the press conference, he called for MMR to be \"suspended in favour of the single vaccines\". In a BBC interview Wakefield's mentor Roy Pounder, who was not a coauthor, \"admitted the study was controversial\". He added: \"In hindsight it may be a better solution to give the vaccinations separately... When the vaccinations were given individually there was no problem.\" These suggestions were not supported by Wakefield's coauthors nor by any scientific evidence.\n\nThe initial press coverage of the story was limited. The \"Guardian\" and the \"Independent\" reported it on their front pages, while the \"Daily Mail\" only gave the story a minor mention in the middle of the paper, and the \"Sun\" did not cover it.\n\nThe controversy began to gain momentum in 2001 and 2002, after Wakefield published papers suggesting that the immunisation programme was not safe. These were a review paper with no new evidence, published in a minor journal, and two papers on laboratory work that he said showed that measles virus had been found in tissue samples taken from children who had autism and bowel problems. There was wide media coverage including distressing anecdotal evidence from parents, and political coverage attacking the health service and government peaked with unmet demands that Prime minister Tony Blair reveal whether his infant son, Leo, had been given the vaccine. It was the biggest science story of 2002, with 1257 articles mostly written by non-expert commentators. In the period January to September 2002, 32% of the stories written about MMR mentioned Leo Blair, as opposed to only 25% that mentioned Wakefield. Less than a third of the stories mentioned the overwhelming evidence that MMR is safe. The paper, press conference and video sparked a major health scare in the United Kingdom. As a result of the scare, full confidence in MMR fell from 59% to 41% after publication of the Wakefield research. In 2001, 26% of family doctors felt the government had failed to prove there was no link between MMR and autism and bowel disease. In his book \"Bad Science\", Ben Goldacre describes the MMR vaccine scare as one of the \"three all-time classic bogus science stories\" by the British newspapers (the other two are the Arpad Pusztai affair about genetically modified crops, and Chris Malyszewicz and the MRSA hoax).\n\nConfidence in the MMR vaccine increased as it became clearer that Wakefield's claims were unsupported by scientific evidence. A 2003 survey of 366 family doctors in the UK reported that 77% of them would advise giving the MMR vaccine to a child with a close family history of autism, and that 3% of them thought that autism could sometimes be caused by the MMR vaccine. A similar survey in 2004 found that these percentages changed to 82% and at most 2%, respectively, and that confidence in MMR had been increasing over the previous two years.\n\nA factor in the controversy is that only the combined vaccine is available through the UK National Health Service. As of 2010 there are no single vaccines for measles, mumps and rubella licensed for use in the UK. Prime minister Tony Blair gave support to the programme, arguing that the vaccine was safe enough for his own son, Leo, but refusing on privacy grounds to state whether Leo had received the vaccine; in contrast, the subsequent Prime Minister, Gordon Brown, explicitly confirmed that his son has been immunised. Cherie Blair confirmed that Leo had been given the MMR vaccination when promoting her autobiography.\n\nAdministration of the combined vaccine instead of separate vaccines decreases the risk of children catching the disease while waiting for full immunisation coverage. The combined vaccine's two injections results in less pain and distress to the child than the six injections required by separate vaccines, and the extra clinic visits required by separate vaccinations increases the likelihood of some being delayed or missed altogether; vaccination uptake significantly increased in the UK when MMR was introduced in 1988. Health professionals have heavily criticized media coverage of the controversy for triggering a decline in vaccination rates. There is no scientific basis for preferring separate vaccines, or for using any particular interval between separate vaccines.\n\nJohn Walker-Smith, a coauthor of Wakefield's report and a supporter of the MMR vaccine, wrote in 2002 that epidemiology has shown that MMR is safe in most children, but observed that epidemiology is a blunt tool and studies can miss at-risk groups that have a real link between MMR and autism. However, if a rare subtype of autism were reliably identified by clinical or pathological characteristics, epidemiological research could address the question whether MMR causes that autism subtype. There is no scientific evidence that MMR causes damage to the infant immune system, and there is much evidence to the contrary.\n\nIn 2001, Berelowitz, one of the co-authors of the paper, said \"I am certainly not aware of any convincing evidence for the hypothesis of a link between MMR and autism\". The Canadian Paediatric Society, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, the Institute of Medicine of the National Academy of Sciences,\n\nand the UK National Health Service have all concluded that there is no evidence of a link between the MMR vaccine and autism, and a 2011 journal article described the vaccine–autism connection as \"the most damaging medical hoax of the last 100 years\".\n\nIn February 2004, after a four-month investigation, reporter Brian Deer wrote in \"The Sunday Times\" of London that, prior to submitting his paper to \"The Lancet\", Wakefield had received £55,000 from Legal Aid Board solicitors seeking evidence to use against vaccine manufacturers, that several of the parents quoted as saying that MMR had damaged their children were also litigants, and that Wakefield did not inform colleagues or medical authorities of the conflict of interest. When the editors of \"The Lancet\" learned about this, they said that based on Deer's evidence, Wakefield's paper should have never been published because its findings were \"entirely flawed\". Although Wakefield maintained that the legal aid funding was for a separate, unpublished study (a position later rejected by a panel of the UK General Medical Council), the editors of \"The Lancet\" judged that the funding source should have been disclosed to them. Richard Horton, the editor-in-chief, wrote, \"It seems obvious now that had we appreciated the full context in which the work reported in the 1998 \"Lancet\" paper by Wakefield and colleagues was done, publication would not have taken place in the way that it did.\" Several of Wakefield's co-researchers also strongly criticized the lack of disclosure.\n\nDeer continued his reporting in a Channel 4 \"Dispatches\" television documentary, \"MMR: What They Didn't Tell You\", broadcast on 18 November 2004. This documentary alleged that Wakefield had applied for patents on a vaccine that was a rival of the MMR vaccine, and that he knew of test results from his own laboratory at the Royal Free Hospital that contradicted his own claims. Wakefield's patent application was also noted in Paul Offit's 2008 book, \"Autism's False Prophets\".\n\nIn January 2005, Wakefield sued Channel 4, 20/20 Productions, and the investigative reporter Brian Deer, who presented the Dispatches programme. However, after two years of litigation, and the revelation of more than £400,000 in undisclosed payments by lawyers to Wakefield, he discontinued his action and paid all the defendants' costs.\n\nIn 2006, Deer reported in \"The Sunday Times\" that Wakefield had been paid £435,643, plus expenses, by British trial lawyers attempting to prove that the vaccine was dangerous, with the undisclosed payments beginning two years before the \"Lancet\" paper's publication. This funding came from the UK legal aid fund, a fund intended to provide legal services to the poor.\n\n\"The Lancet\" and many other medical journals require papers to include the authors' conclusions about their research, known as the \"interpretation\". The summary of the 1998 \"Lancet\" paper ended as follows:\nInterpretation We identified associated gastrointestinal disease and developmental regression in a group of previously normal children, which was generally associated in time with possible environmental triggers.\nIn March 2004, immediately following the news of the conflict of interest allegations, ten of Wakefield's 12 coauthors retracted this interpretation, while insisting that the possibility of a distinctive gastrointestinal condition in children with autism merited further investigation. However, a separate study of children with gastrointestinal disturbances found no difference between those with autism spectrum disorders and those without, with respect to the presence of measles virus RNA in the bowel; it also found that gastrointestinal symptoms and the onset of autism were unrelated in time to the administration of MMR vaccine.\n\nOn 8 February 2009, Brian Deer reported in \"The Sunday Times\" that Wakefield had \"fixed\" results and \"manipulated\" patient data in his 1998 paper, creating the appearance of a link with autism. Wakefield denied these allegations, and even filed a complaint with the Press Complaints Commission (PCC) over this article on 13 March 2009. The complaint was expanded by a 20 March 2009 addendum by Wakefield's publicist. In July 2009, the PCC stated that it was staying any investigation regarding the \"Times\" article, pending the conclusion of the GMC investigation. In the event, Wakefield did not pursue his complaint, which Deer published with a statement that he and The Sunday Times rejected it as \"false and disingenuous in all material respects\", and that the action had been suspended by the PCC in February 2010.\n\nThe General Medical Council (GMC), which is responsible for licensing doctors and supervising medical ethics in the UK, investigated the affair. The GMC brought the case itself, not citing any specific complaints, claiming that an investigation was in the public interest. The then-secretary of state for health, John Reid, called for a GMC investigation, which Wakefield himself welcomed. During a debate in the House of Commons, on 15 Mar 2004, Dr. Evan Harris, a Liberal Democrat MP, called for a judicial inquiry into the ethical aspects of the case, even suggesting it might be conducted by the CPS. In June 2006 the GMC confirmed that they would hold a disciplinary hearing of Wakefield.\n\nThe GMC's Fitness to Practise Panel first met on 16 July 2007 to consider the cases of Dr. Wakefield, Professor John Angus Walker-Smith, and Professor Simon Harry Murch. All faced charges of serious professional misconduct. The GMC examined, among other ethical points, whether Wakefield and his colleagues obtained the required approvals for the tests they performed on the children; the data-manipulation charges reported in the \"Times\", which surfaced after the case was prepared, were not at question in the hearings. The GMC stressed that it would not be assessing the validity of competing scientific theories on MMR and autism. The General Medical Council alleged that the trio acted unethically and dishonestly in preparing the research into the MMR vaccine. They denied the allegations. The case proceeded in front of a GMC Fitness to Practise panel of three medical and two lay members.\n\nOn 28 January 2010, the GMC panel delivered its decision on the facts of the case: Wakefield was found to have acted \"dishonestly and irresponsibly\" and to have acted with \"callous disregard\" for the children involved in his study, conducting unnecessary and invasive tests. The panel found that the trial was improperly conducted without the approval of an independent ethics committee, and that Wakefield had multiple undeclared conflicts of interest.\n\nIn response to the GMC investigation and findings, the editors of \"The Lancet\" announced on 2 February 2010 that they \"fully retract this paper from the published record\".\n\nThe Hansard text for 16 March 2010 reported Lord McColl asking the Government whether it had plans to recover legal aid money paid to the experts in connection with the measles, mumps and rubella/measles and rubella vaccine litigation. Lord Bach, Ministry of Justice dismissed this possibility.\n\nIn an April 2010 report in \"The BMJ\", Deer expanded on the laboratory aspects of his findings recounting how normal clinical histopathology results generated by the Royal Free Hospital were later changed in the medical school to abnormal results, published in \"The Lancet\". Deer wrote an article in \"The BMJ\" casting doubt on the \"autistic enterocolitis\" that Wakefield claimed to have discovered. In the same edition, Deirdre Kelly, President of the European Society of Pediatric Gastroenterology and Nutrition and the Editor of the Journal of Pediatric Gastroenterology and Nutrition expressed some concern about \"The BMJ\" publishing this article while the GMC proceedings were underway.\n\nOn 24 May 2010, the GMC panel found Wakefield guilty of serious professional misconduct on four counts of dishonesty and 12 involving the abuse of developmentally challenged children, and ordered that he be struck off the medical register. John Walker-Smith was also found guilty of serious professional misconduct and struck off the medical register, but that decision was reversed on appeal to the High Court in 2012, because the GMC panel had failed to decide whether Walker-Smith actually thought he was doing research in the guise of clinical investigation and treatment. The High Court criticised \"a number of\" wrong conclusions by the disciplinary panel and its \"inadequate and superficial reasoning\". Simon Murch was found not guilty.\n\nOn 5 January 2011, \"The BMJ\" published the first of a series of articles by Brian Deer, detailing how Wakefield and his colleagues had faked some of the data behind the 1998 Lancet article. By looking at the records and interviewing the parents, Deer found that for all 12 children in the Wakefield study, diagnoses had been tweaked or dates changed to fit the article's conclusion. Continuing \"BMJ\" series on 11 January 2011, Deer said that based upon documents he obtained under Freedom of information legislation, Wakefield—in partnership with the father of one of the boys in the study—had planned to launch a venture on the back of an MMR vaccination scare that would profit from new medical tests and \"litigation driven testing\". \"The Washington Post\" reported that Deer said that Wakefield predicted he \"could make more than $43 million a year from diagnostic kits\" for the new condition, autistic enterocolitis. WebMD reported on Deer's \"BMJ\" report, saying that the $43 million predicted yearly profits would come from marketing kits for \"diagnosing patients with autism\" and \"the initial market for the diagnostic will be litigation-driven testing of patients with AE [autistic enterocolitis, an unproven condition concocted by Wakefield] from both the UK and the USA\". According to WebMD, the \"BMJ\" article also claimed that the venture would succeed in marketing products and developing a replacement vaccine if \"public confidence in the MMR vaccine was damaged\".\n\nObservers have criticized the involvement of mass media in the controversy, what is known as 'science by press conference', alleging that the media provided Wakefield's study with more credibility than it deserved. A March 2007 paper in \"BMC Public Health\" by Shona Hilton, Mark Petticrew, and Kate Hunt postulated that media reports on Wakefield's study had \"created the misleading impression that the evidence for the link with autism was as substantial as the evidence against\". Earlier papers in \"Communication in Medicine\" and \"British Medical Journal\" concluded that media reports provided a misleading picture of the level of support for Wakefield's hypothesis.\n\nA 2007 editorial in \"Australian Doctor\" complained that some journalists had continued to defend Wakefield's study even after \"The Lancet\" had published the retraction by 10 of the study's 12 original authors, but noted that it was an investigative journalist, Brian Deer, who had played a leading role in exposing weaknesses in the study. \"PRWeek\" noted that after Wakefield was removed from the general medical register for misconduct in May 2010, 62% of respondents to a poll regarding the MMR controversy stated they did not feel that the media conducted responsible reporting on health issues.\n\nA \"New England Journal of Medicine\" article examining the history of antivaccinationists said that opposition to vaccines has existed since the 19th century, but \"now the antivaccinationists' media of choice are typically television and the Internet, including its social media outlets, which are used to sway public opinion and distract attention from scientific evidence\". The editorial characterized anti-vaccinationists as people who \"tend toward complete mistrust of government and manufacturers, conspiratorial thinking, denialism, low cognitive complexity in thinking patterns, reasoning flaws, and a habit of substituting emotional anecdotes for data\", including people who range from those \"unable to understand and incorporate concepts of risk and probability into science-grounded decision making\" and those \"who use deliberate mistruths, intimidation, falsified data, and threats of violence\".\n\nIn a January 2011 editorial in \"The American Spectator\", Robert M. Goldberg contended that evidence from the scientific community of issues with Wakefield's research \" ... were undermined because the media allowed Wakefield and his followers to discredit the findings just by saying so\".\n\nSeth Mnookin, author of \"The Panic Virus\", also partly blames the media for presenting a false balance between scientific evidence and people's personal experiences: \"Reporting fell into this 'on the one hand, on the other hand' fallacy, this notion that if you have two sides that are disagreeing, that means that you should present both of them with equal weight.\"\nFiona Godlee, editor of \"The BMJ\", said in January 2011:\n\nThe original paper has received so much media attention, with such potential to damage public health, that it is hard to find a parallel in the history of medical science. Many other medical frauds have been exposed but usually more quickly after publication and on less important health issues.\n\nConcerns have also been raised over the journal peer review system, which largely relies on trust among researchers, and the role of journalists reporting on scientific theories that they \"are hardly in a position to question and comprehend\". Neil Cameron, a historian who specializes in the history of science, writing for the \"Montreal Gazette\", labeled the controversy a \"failure of journalism\" that resulted in unnecessary deaths, saying that: 1) \"The Lancet\" should not have published a study based on \"statistically meaningless results\" from only 12 cases; 2) the anti-vaccination crusade was continued by the satirical \"Private Eye\" magazine; and 3) a grapevine of worried parents and \"nincompoop\" celebrities fueled the widespread fears. The \"Gazette\" also reported that:\n\nThere is no guarantee that debunking the original study is going to sway all parents. Medical experts are going to have to work hard to try to undo the damage inflicted by what is apparently a rogue medical researcher whose work was inadequately vetted by a top-ranked international journal.\n\nDuring the 1980s and 1990s, a number of lawsuits were brought against manufacturers of vaccines, alleging the vaccines had caused physical and mental disorders in children. While these lawsuits were unsuccessful, they did lead to a large jump in the costs of the MMR vaccine, and pharmaceutical companies sought legislative protections. In 1993, Merck KGaA became the only company willing to sell MMR vaccines in the United States and the United Kingdom.\n\nIn June 2012, a local court in Rimini, Italy, ruled that the MMR vaccination had caused autism in a 15-month-old boy. The court relied heavily on the discredited \"Lancet\" paper and largely ignored the scientific evidence presented to it. The decision was appealed. On 13 February 2015, the decision was overturned by a Court of Appeals in Bologna.\n\nThe MMR scare caused a low percentage of mumps vaccination (less than 30%), which resulted in outbreaks in Japan. There were up to 2002 measles-caused deaths in Japan while there were none in the UK, but the extra deaths were attributed to Japan's application of the vaccine at a later age. A spokesman for the Ministry of Health said that the discontinuation had no effect in measles, but also mentioning that there were more deaths by measles while MMR was being used. In 1994 the government dropped the vaccination requirement for measles and rubella due to the 1993 MMR scare. Japan is nowadays the only developed country with large measles epidemics. It has been called a \"measles exporter\" by the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. As another consequence of the scare, in 2003, 7 million schoolchildren had not been vaccinated against rubella.\n\nAutism rates continued to rise in Japan after the discontinuation of the MMR vaccine, which disproves any large-scale effect of vaccination, and means that the withdrawal of MMR in other countries is unlikely to cause a reduction in autism cases. The Japanese government does not recognize any link between MMR and autism. By 2003 it was still trying to find a combined vaccine to replace MMR.\n\nIt was later discovered that some of the vaccines were administered after their expiry date and that the MMR compulsory vaccination was only retracted after the death of three children and more than 2000 reports of adverse effects. By 1993 the Japanese government had paid $160,000 in compensation to the families of each of the three dead children. Other parents received no compensation because the government said that it was unproven that the MMR vaccine had been the cause; they decided to sue the manufacturer instead of the government. The Osaka district court ruled on 13 March 2003 that the death of two children (among numerous other serious conditions) had been indeed caused by Japan's strain of Urabe MMR. In 2006, the Osaka High Court stated in another ruling that the state was responsible for failing to properly supervise a manufacturer of the measles-mumps-rubella vaccine, which caused severe side effects in children.\n\nCommenced before the Civil Procedure Rules were promulgated, the MMR Litigation had its status as group litigation achieved by the then Lord Chief Justice's practice direction of 8 July 1999. On 8 June 2007, the High Court judge, Justice Keith, put an end to the group litigation because the withdrawal of legal aid by the legal services commission had made the pursuit of most of the claimants impossible. He ruled that all but two claims against pharmaceutical companies must be discontinued. The judge stressed that his ruling did not amount to a rejection of any of the claims that MMR had seriously damaged the children concerned.\n\nA pressure group called JABS (Justice, Awareness, Basic Support) was established to represent families with children who, their parents said, were \"vaccine-damaged\". £15 million in public legal aid funding was spent on the litigation, of which £9.7 million went to solicitors and barristers, and £4.3 million to expert witnesses.\n\nThe omnibus autism proceeding (OAP) is a coordinated proceeding before the Office of Special Masters of the U.S. Court of Federal Claims—commonly called the vaccine court. It is structured to facilitate the handling of nearly 5000 vaccine petitions involving claims that children who have received certain vaccinations have developed autism. The Petitioners' Steering Committee have claimed that MMR vaccines can cause autism, possibly in combination with thiomersal-containing vaccines. In 2007 three test cases were presented to test the claims about the combination; these cases failed. The vaccine court ruled against the plaintiffs in all three cases, stating that the evidence presented did not validate their claims that vaccinations caused autism in these specific patients or in general.\n\nIn some cases, the plaintiffs' attorneys opted out of the Omnibus Autism Proceedings, which were concerned solely with autism, and issues concerned with bowel disorders; they argued their cases in the regular vaccine court.\n\nOn 30 July 2007, the family of Bailey Banks, a child with pervasive developmental delay, won its case versus the Department of Health and Human Services. In a case listed as relating to 'non-autistic developmental delay', Special Master Richard B. Abell ruled that the Banks had successfully demonstrated, \"the MMR vaccine at issue actually caused the conditions from which Bailey suffered and continues to suffer.\" In his conclusion, he ruled that he was satisfied that MMR had caused a brain inflammation called acute disseminated encephalomyelitis (ADEM). He reached this conclusion because of two vaccine cases in 1994 and 2001, which had concluded, \"ADEM can be caused by natural measles, mumps, and rubella infections, as well as by measles, mumps, and rubella vaccines.\"\n\nIn other cases, attorneys did not claim that vaccines caused autism; they sought compensation for encephalopathy, encephalitis, or seizure disorders.\n\nThe number of reported cases of autism increased dramatically in the 1990s and early 2000s. This increase is largely attributable to changes in diagnostic practices; it is not known how much, if any, growth came from real changes in autism's prevalence, and no causal connection to the MMR vaccine has been demonstrated.\n\nIn 2004, a meta review financed by the European Union assessed the evidence given in 120 other studies and considered unintended effects of the MMR vaccine, concluding that although the vaccine is associated with positive and negative side effects, a connection between MMR and autism was \"unlikely\". Also in 2004, a review article was published that concluded, \"The evidence now is convincing that the measles–mumps–rubella vaccine does not cause autism or any particular subtypes of autistic spectrum disorder.\" A 2006 review of the literature regarding vaccines and autism found \"[t]he bulk of the evidence suggests no causal relationship between the MMR vaccine and autism.\" A 2007 case study used the figure in Wakefield's 1999 letter to \"The Lancet\" alleging a temporal association between MMR vaccination and autism to illustrate how a graph can misrepresent its data, and gave advice to authors and publishers to avoid similar misrepresentations in the future. A 2007 review of independent studies performed after the publication of Wakefield \"et al.\"'s original report found that the studies provided compelling evidence against the hypothesis that MMR is associated with autism. A review of the work conducted in 2004 for UK court proceedings but not revealed until 2007 found that the polymerase chain reaction analysis essential to the Wakefield \"et al.\" results was fatally flawed due to contamination, and that it could not have possibly detected the measles that it was supposed to have detected. A 2009 review of studies on links between vaccines and autism discussed the MMR vaccine controversy as one of three main hypotheses that epidemiological and biological studies failed to support.\n\nIn 2012, the Cochrane Library published a review of dozens of scientific studies involving about 14,700,000 children, which found no credible evidence of an involvement of MMR with either autism or Crohn's disease. The authors stated \"the design and reporting of safety outcomes in MMR vaccine studies, both pre- and post-marketing, are largely inadequate\". A June 2014 meta-analysis involving more than 1.25 million children found \"vaccinations are not associated with the development of autism or autism spectrum disorder. Furthermore, the components of the vaccines (thimerosal or mercury) or multiple vaccines (MMR) are not associated with the development of autism or autism spectrum disorder.\" In July 2014, a systematic review found \"strong evidence that MMR vaccine is not associated with autism\".\n\nAfter the controversy began, the MMR vaccination compliance dropped sharply in the United Kingdom, from 92% in 1996 to 84% in 2002. In some parts of London, it was as low as 61% in 2003, far below the rate needed to avoid an epidemic of measles. By 2006 coverage for MMR in the UK at 24 months was 85%, lower than the about 94% coverage for other vaccines.\n\nAfter vaccination rates dropped, the incidence of two of the three diseases increased greatly in the UK. In 1998 there were 56 confirmed cases of measles in the UK; in 2006 there were 449 in the first five months of the year, with the first death since 1992; cases occurred in inadequately vaccinated children. Mumps cases began rising in 1999 after years of very few cases, and by 2005 the United Kingdom was in a mumps epidemic with almost 5000 notifications in the first month of 2005 alone. The age group affected was too old to have received the routine MMR immunisations around the time the paper by Wakefield \"et al.\" was published, and too young to have contracted natural mumps as a child, and thus to achieve a herd immunity effect. With the decline in mumps that followed the introduction of the MMR vaccine, these individuals had not been exposed to the disease, but still had no immunity, either natural or vaccine induced. Therefore, as immunisation rates declined following the controversy and the disease re-emerged, they were susceptible to infection. Measles and mumps cases continued in 2006, at incidence rates 13 and 37 times greater than respective 1998 levels. Two children were severely and permanently injured by measles encephalitis despite undergoing kidney transplantation in London.\n\nDisease outbreaks also caused casualties in nearby countries. Three deaths and 1,500 cases were reported in the Irish outbreak of 2000, which occurred as a direct result of decreased vaccination rates following the MMR scare.\n\nIn 2008, for the first time in 14 years, measles was declared endemic in the UK, meaning that the disease was sustained within the population; this was caused by the preceding decade's low MMR vaccination rates, which created a population of susceptible children who could spread the disease. MMR vaccination rates for English children were unchanged in 2007–08 from the year before, at too low a level to prevent serious measles outbreaks. In May 2008, a British 17-year-old with an underlying immunodeficiency died of measles. In 2008 Europe also faced a measles epidemic, including large outbreaks in Austria, Italy, and Switzerland.\n\nFollowing the January 2011 \"BMJ\" statements about Wakefield's fraud, Paul Offit, a pediatrician at Children's Hospital of Philadelphia and a \"long-time critic of the dangers of the anti-vaccine movement\", said, \"that paper killed children\", and Michael Smith of the University of Louisville, an \"infectious diseases expert who has studied the autism controversy's effect on immunization rates\", said \"clearly, the results of this (Wakefield) study have had repercussions.\" In 2014, Laurie Garrett, senior fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations, blamed \"Wakefieldism\" for an increase in the number of unvaccinated children in countries such as Australia and New Zealand, saying, \"Our data suggests that where Wakefield's message has caught on, measles follows.\"\n\nThe \"New England Journal of Medicine\" said that antivaccinationist activities resulted in a high cost to society, \"including damage to individual and community well-being from outbreaks of previously controlled diseases, withdrawal of vaccine manufacturers from the market, compromising of national security (in the case of anthrax and smallpox vaccines), and lost productivity\".\n\nCosts to society from declining vaccination rates (in US dollars) were estimated by AOL's \"Daily Finance\" in 2011:\n\n\nIn the United States, Jenny McCarthy blamed vaccinations for her son Evan's disorders and leveraged her celebrity status to warn parents of a link between vaccines and autism. Evan's disorder began with seizures and his improvement occurred after the seizures were treated, symptoms experts have noted are more consistent with Landau–Kleffner syndrome, often misdiagnosed as autism. After the \"Lancet\" article was discredited, McCarthy continued to defend Wakefield. An article in Salon.com called McCarthy \"a menace\" for her continued position that vaccines are dangerous.\n\nBill Gates has reacted strongly to Wakefield and the work of anti-vaccination groups: \nThe proportion of children in England receiving the vaccine by the age of two fell to 91.2% in 2017-18, from 91.6% the year before. Only 87.2% of five-year-olds had received both MMR vaccines.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28523058", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28523058", "title": "Mormon studies", "text": "Mormon studies\n\nMormon studies is the interdisciplinary academic study of the beliefs, practices, history and culture of those known by the term \"Mormon\" and denominations belonging to the Latter Day Saint movement whose members do not generally go by the term \"Mormon\". The Latter Day Saint movement includes not only The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (LDS Church) but also the Community of Christ (CoC) and other groups, as well as those falling under the umbrella of Mormon fundamentalism.\n\nBefore 1903, writings about Mormons were mostly orthodox documentary histories or anti-Mormon material. The first dissertations on Mormons, published in the 1900s, had a naturalistic style that approached Mormon history from economic, psychological, and philosophical theories. While their position within Mormon studies is debated, Mormon apologetics have a tradition dating back to Parley P. Pratt's response to an anti-Mormon book in 1838.\n\nThe amount of scholarship in Mormon studies increased after World War II. From 1972–1982, while Leonard Arrington was a Church Historian in the history department, the LDS Church Archives were open to Mormon and non-Mormon researchers. Researchers wrote detached accounts for Mormon intellectuals in the \"New Mormon history\" style. Many new publications started to publish history in this style, including , \"BYU Studies Quarterly\", and \"Exponent II\". Some general authorities in the church did not like the New Mormon history style, and Arrington and his remaining staff were transferred to Brigham Young University (BYU) in 1982, where they worked in the Joseph Fielding Smith Institute for Church History. The institute continued to support scholarship in Mormon history until 2005, when the institute closed and employees transferred to the LDS Church Office Building. In the late 1980s and 1990s, several other incidents made BYU faculty reluctant to voice unorthodox ideas about church history. Around 1990, BYU professors were asked not to contribute to \"Dialogue\" or \"Sunstone\". Two historians were excommunicated in 1993, probably for their published unorthodox views. \"BYU Studies\" and other LDS church-sponsored publishers published more \"faithful\" scholarship at this time. Presses outside of Utah started to publish more books in Mormon studies. \n\nMormon scholars engaging in Mormon studies still feel they must be careful about what they write, especially if they work with material from the Church History Library archives. Non-Mormon scholars are often suspicious of Mormon scholars' work. This is gradually changing as Mormon scholars find employment outside of church-sponsored institutions. Universities without affiliation to the LDS Church have endowed chairs for Mormon studies. Emerging trends in \"Newer\" Mormon History are an increase in interdisciplinary work and women's history. The LDS Church History Department hired a women's history specialist in 2011 and has recently published books focusing on women's history. Blogs focusing on Mormon history have helped make Mormon history more accessible and provided a safe space for unorthodox ideas, although they may be superficial at times. \n\nBefore World War II, church histories were mostly either orthodox Mormon or anti-Mormon and written by faithful Mormons or hostile non-Mormons, respectively. A few writers in the first era of church history (1830–1905) wrote about Mormons as a curiosity and focused on their peculiar ways.\n\nNon-Mormons wrote for a non-Mormon public about how \"primitive and dangerous\" Mormons were in \"extreme terms.\" Eber D. Howe published \"Mormonism Unvailed, or a Faithful Account of that Singular Imposition and Delusion\" in 1834, which claimed that Sidney Rigdon was the original author of the Book of Mormon and that Joseph Smith was a \"vile wretch.\" Howe included affidavits from people who knew Joseph Smith collected by ex-Mormon Philastus Hurlbut. The book influenced future anti-Mormon literature. (by La Roy Sunderland, John Bennett, and John A. Clark). Origen Bacheler examined the Book of Mormon itself in \"Mormonism Exposed Internally and Externally\", arguing that the book was inconsistent with the Bible and was written by Joseph Smith himself.\n\nIn the 1960s, ex-Mormons Jerald and Sandra Tanner continued that anti-Mormon tradition by reprinting anti-Mormon works in the public domain as well as important but unflattering documents from LDS history through Utah Light House Ministry. They published their own criticisms of the LDS church as well, which, unlike early anti-Mormon works, cite historical documents. Ed Decker, an excommunicated Mormon, made two anti-Mormon films: \"The God Makers\" (1982) and \"The God Makers II\" (1993). The films described Mormons as being a cult, abusing women and children, manipulating news outlets, and practicing Satanism. \"The God Makers II\" received criticism from other anti-Mormons, including Jerald and Sandra Tanner, who stated it contained inaccuracies.\n\nOfficial recorders have existed since Joseph Smith organized the Church of Christ on April 6, 1830. Church records continue to the present and are kept in the LDS church archives. The first official church history was published in 1842, when Smith and his associates began writing \"History of Joseph Smith\" as an official diary of Joseph Smith. This history was published in Times and Seasons in Nauvoo, and then in Deseret News and Latter-day Saints' Millennial Star up until 1863. \"History of Joseph Smith\" was followed by \"History of Brigham Young\", which was also published in Deseret News and Millennial Star over the next two years. Church Historians and their assistants edited the material, which was published in official publications. Andrew Jenson made sizable contributions to documentary church history with the Latter-day Saint Biographical Encyclopedia (1901–36), Encyclopedic History of the Church (1941), and an unpublished \"Journal History of the Church\" containing over 1,500 scrapbooks filled with published and unpublished records of daily activities in the church. Jenson made a special report on the Mountain Meadows Massacre, and parts of the report were not openly used until \"Massacre at Mountain Meadows\" (2008) by Richard E. Turley, Ronald W. Walker, and Glen M. Leonard.\n\nThe first historian to attempt to summarize Mormon history on a large scale was Edward Tullidge, who wrote \"Life of Brigham Young: or Utah and Her Founders\" (1876), \"History of Salt Lake City\" (1886), and History of Northern Utah and Southern Idaho (1889). Hubert How Bancroft wrote \"History of Utah\" (1889) with the help of the Historian's Office. Bancroft's history of Utah portrayed Mormons favorably. Critics say that he wasn't objective since he allowed LDS Church authorities to read the book before publication. Perhaps his favorable treatment was how he obtained access to the church records. Expanding on Bancroft's history, Orson F. Whitney wrote \"History of Utah\" (1898–1904) in four volumes. Joseph Fielding Smith wrote \"Essentials of Church History\" in 1922. Most of these accounts combined various testimonies into a single narrative without questioning the validity of the eyewitnesses or other observers, especially those of church authorities.\n\nMormons wrote accounts for other Mormons, often published in church-sponsored venues like \"The Juvenile Instructor\" and in church-published lesson manuals. These writings were written for a Mormon audience in order to support their existing beliefs. Brigham H. Roberts was an associate editor of the \"Salt Lake Herald\" and while on a mission to England, was the editor of the \"Millenial Star\". Upon returning to Utah, he became a General Authority. After an invitation from \"Americana\", Brigham H. Roberts wrote a chapter each month from 1909 to 1915 in what later became the \"Comprehensive History of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints: Century One\". The history had some of the first historical analysis of events in church history. It was serialized in Americana 1909–1915. \n\nFrom 1830-1930, women were victims or symbols in historical accounts. Church historians mentioned their suffering, but rarely mentioned them by name. Anti-polygamy tracts also described Mormon women in general terms, describing them as deluded or miserable. In an effort to combat the way anti-polygamists portrayed Mormon women, Edward Tullidge and Eliza R. Snow compiled \"The Women of Mormondom\" (1877), a book that portrayed Mormon women as hardworking and independent in a combined history, biography, and theology. \"Heroines of Mormondom\" (1884) highlighted faithful Mormon women's lives. Women wrote short biographies of other women and recorded them in \"Women's Exponent\" and through publications from the Daughters of the Utah Pioneers.\n\nEarly academic writers on Mormon topics had a \"naturalistic\" approach to history, using theory from economics, psychology, and philosophy to guide their study. Richard Ely contributed to the professionalization of Mormon studies with his early dissertation \"Economic Aspects of Mormonism\" (1903). In the work, he praised Mormon irrigation and communalism as a good model of economic development. He influenced Leonard Arrington's interest in economics and Mormons. Andrew Love Neff wrote \"The Mormon Migration to Utah,\" which he finished in 1918 but had started over ten years earlier. He was interested in how Mormons helped colonize the West. Mormon Ephraim Edward Ericksen wrote \"The Psychological and Ethical Aspects of Mormonism\" (1922) while studying at the University of Chicago. His dissertation, influenced by functionalist theory, argued that Mormonism was a product of conflicts with non-Mormons and harsh environments. Lowry Nelson, also a Mormon, studied at the University of Wisconsin in the 1920s. He worked in agriculture and was dean of BYU's College of Applied Science and director of the Utah Agriculture Experiment stations. He wrote articles about how the Mormon village was designed to promote unity and sociability, which allowed Mormon settlers to colonize the Great Basin Desert. He left Utah in 1937. Nels Anderson studied at the University of Chicago, and studied hobos in Utah, where he converted to Mormonism. His book \"Desert Saints\" (1944) recounted the history of saints in the St. George, Utah area. Other scholars publishing on Mormonism from this time period include I. Woodbridge Riley, Walter F. Prince, Franklin D. Daines, Hamilton Gardner, Joseph Geddes, Feramorz Fox, Arden Beal Olsen, William McNiff, Kimball Young, Austin Fife and Alta Fife.\n\nIn the 1950s after World War II, an increasing number of Mormons studied history professionally and wrote dissertations about Mormon history. Non-Mormon sociologist Thomas F. O'Dea wrote a dissertation entitled \"Mormon Values: The Significance of a Religious Outlook for Social Action\" after living in a rural Mormon farming village in New Mexico for six months and subsequently teaching at Utah State University. This study of Mormon culture \"stunned Mormon readers with its objectivity and sympathetic insight,\" according to Mormon scholar Richard Bushman. Bernard DeVoto, Dale L. Morgan, Fawn McKay Brodie, Stuart Ferguson, and Juanita Brooks did not have graduate degrees in history, but made significant contributions to the foundations of Mormonism's \"New History\" movement. Brodie wrote \"No Man Knows My History\" (1945), which contemporary reviews praised as definitive and scholarly. Other LDS scholars, notably Hugh Nibley, criticized Brodie's biography. In 1950, Juanita Brooks, an educated Mormon housewife, published a scholarly book on the Mountain Meadows Massacre, which is well-researched and balanced even by contemporary standards. Brooks's Mormon neighbors did not like \"the frankness\" of her book.\n\nMormon scholars are divided on whether apologetics should be considered part of Mormon studies or not. Brian D. Birch argues that it should be a part of Mormon studies, as long as apologetic authors concede that their arguments are objective and subject to academic debate. Apologists write defensively, and view their polemical responses to criticism as a battle for their faith. Parley P. Pratt responded to \"Mormonism Unveiled\" in detail in his 1838 pamphlet \"Mormonism Unveiled: Zion's Watchman Unmasked and Its Editor Mr. L.R. Sunderland Exposed, Truth Vindicated, the Devil Mad, and Priestcraft in Danger!\" Pratt argued against Sunderland's character, quoting Hurlbut, who stated that Sunderland has a \"notorious character.\"\n\nHugh Nibley's \"No Ma'am, That's Not History\" set a standard for apologetics to use academic language, and criticized Brodie's use of sources in her controversial biography of Joseph Smith, \"No Man Knows My History\". The Foundation for Ancient Research and Mormon Studies (FARMS) aimed to support the historical authenticity of the Book of Mormon and respond to criticism, and used Nibley's style to counter research that contradicted the Book of Mormon's ancient origins. FARMS collaborated with Deseret Book to publish the complete works of Hugh Nibley starting in 1984. In 1997, LDS church president Gordon B. Hinckley invited FARMS to be officially affiliated at BYU, and in 2006 it was subsumed by the Neal A. Maxwell Institute of Religious Scholarship. In 2012, Daniel C. Petersen, the editor of \"FARMS Review\", started publishing a new journal called \"Interpreter\". The Foundation for Apologetic Information and Research (FAIR), a group including both laypeople and academics, attempts to answer criticisms of the Mormon faith. in 2013, it changed its name to FairMormon. \n\nSome other Mormon \"insiders\" countered the Book of Mormon's ancient origins through the Smith-Pettit Foundation in Salt Lake City and George Smith's Signature Books publishing company. Signature Books published \"New Approaches to the Book of Mormon\" by Brent Metcalfe and \"American Apocrypha\" by Dan Vogel and Metcalfe. These insider views of the Book of Mormon's origins were diverse. \"American Apocrypha\" described the Book of Mormon as a work of fiction reflecting its environment. Ostler argued that the Book of Mormon was partially inspired. FARMS's responses were at times patronizing, and even descending into veiled name-calling in William Hamblin's 1994 critique of a Metcalfe essay.\n\nIn the 1990s and 2000s, Evangelicals Carl Mosser and Paul Owen encouraged other Evangelicals to respond to Mormon apologetics. Evangelical Craig L. Blomberg discussed whether or not Mormons were Christian with Mormon Stephen E. Robinson in \"How Wide the Divide? A Mormon and Evangelical in Conversation\". Richard Bushman encouraged fellow Mormon historians to be less defensive and more open to criticism, and also to do research on Mormon history from a consciously Mormon point of view.\n\nIn the 1960s, a new generation of Mormon scholars emerged. The publication of , the newly-established Mormon History Association, and the professionalization of LDS and RLDS history departments provided spaces for historians to do new research in Mormon topics. RLDS scholars founded the John Whitmer Historical Association in 1972. In 1974, Claudia Bushman and Laurel Thatcher Ulrich founded the magazine \"Exponent II\". The first issue of \"BYU Studies\" was published in 1959.\nAlso in 1972, the LDS Church hired Leonard Arrington as their historian. During Arrington's time as historian, Mormon and non-Mormon historians were allowed to access the LDS Church Archives. Much of the research in the 1970s used these newly-available sources to examine church history, sometimes in great detail. Leonard Arrington influenced important scholars of Mormon history, including Richard Jensen, William Hartley, and Ronald Walker. In 1969, Jewish historian Moses Rischin named the increasing amount of Mormon scholarship \"the New Mormon history.\" The \"New Mormon History\" movement included non-Mormons Thomas F. O'Dea, P.A.M. Taylor, Mario De Pillis, Lawrence Foster, Community of Christ member Robert Flanders, and Mormon scholar Klaus Hansen. \n\nMaureen Ursenbach Beecher was a leading researcher in women's studies. In the 1970s women's biographies were published, but not integrated into larger narratives. Other women hired by the Church Historical Department included Jill Mulvay Derr, Carol Cornwall Madsen, and Edyth Romney. Journals dedicated special issues to Mormon women, and the increased interest in Mormon women led to more publications focused on them. Scholars published biographies of Emma Smith, Eliza Snow, Emmeline B. Wells, and Amy Brown Lyman. \n\nSome writers looked at Mormon women's history with the goal of restructuring historical narratives. Mormon feminist articles on Mormon history started with the special Summer 1971 issue of \"Dialogue\" on women's issues and continued in publications like \"Exponent II\" (starting in 1974), and \"Mormon Sisters: Women in Early Utah\" (1976), edited by Claudia Bushman. Beecher and Laurel Thatcher Ulrich edited another volume about Mormon women's history in \"Sisters in Sprit: Mormon Women in Historical and Cultural Perspective\" (1987). \"Women and Authority: Re-emerging Mormon Feminism\" (1992) was another milestone in feminist publications, and it encouraged Mormon women to be empowered by their history and \"reclaim lost opportunities.\"\n\nMost New Mormon historians were LDS. Their audience was Mormon intellectuals and non-Mormons. They maintained their respect for the Mormon faith, admitted to flaws in people and policies, and avoided taking a defensive stance, a tone which non-Mormon historian Jan Shipps wrote \"made them seem more secular than they actually were.\" Mormon history by non-Mormons at this time had a similar detached tone. New Mormon historians often published with the University of Illinois Press in order to publish for an academic audience independent of the church. Charles S. Peterson argued in \"The Great Basin Kingdom Revisited\" that Arrington took an exceptionalist view of Mormon history, which he then taught to other New Mormon Historians. This exceptionalist view was that they could believe in both secular history and orthodox Mormon views of the restoration.\n\nThe LDS church stopped funding so much research and limited access to the church archives. Apostle Ezra Taft Benson warned employees in the Church Educational System against New Mormon History in a 1976 speech. He said that writing history in a neutral style undermined \"prophetic history.\" Boyd K. Packer's 1981 article, \"The Mantle is Far, Far Greater than the Intellect\" was published in \"BYU Studies.\" He wrote that contemporary historians were too eager to focus on the faults of church leaders and dismiss spiritual inspiration. In 1982, historians from Arrington's department were transferred to Brigham Young University, where they were assigned to teach in the history department and worked in the Joseph Fielding Smith Institute for Church History.\nAfter Arrington's death in 1999, Ronald K. Esplin and Jill Mulvay Derr led the Joseph Fielding Smith Institute for Church History at BYU. Carol Cornwall Madsen led research in the Women's History Initiative at the institute, where she wrote an important biographical study of Emmeline B. Wells. In 2001, Richard Bushman retired from full-time teaching at Columbia University and was a research director at the Smith Institute. Dean C. Jessee started editing Joseph Smith's papers in \"The Personal Writings of Joseph Smith\". The Smith Institute closed in 2005, and institute staff along with the Smith papers project moved to the Church Office Building. The Joseph Smith Papers project, started by the LDS church in 2001, aimed to publish Joseph Smith's papers with rigorous accuracy, and was validated by the National Historic Public Records Commission. \n\nJan Shipps asserts that this reluctance to support new Mormon history was a response to the Mark Hofmann document forgeries. Also, some church authorities disliked the books and articles produced by the history department, which noted flaws as well as strengths of people in church history. Shipps states that the increase in new converts to the LDS Church led General Authorities to emphasize the need for \"palatable\" versions of church history in museums and historic sites rather than in-depth articles in church-sponsored publications. Mormon sociologist Armand Mauss argued that Mormonism was a struggle between remaining distinctive and assimilating to accepted American cultural practices; scholar Ronald Helfrich speculates that the change in General Authority's reception to Arrington's research was because they feared assimilating too much. General interest in Mormon studies continued during the 1980s, with over 2,000 books, articles, and other material published on Mormon history during that decade. \n\n\"BYU Studies\" and Deseret Books published more \"New Mormon Faith Historians\" after General Authority pushback against New Mormon History. One of these New Mormon Faith Historians was Louis Midgely, who argued that from a relativist, postmodern theory, the Mormon view that the LDS Church had divine origins was just as valuable and valid as others. New Mormon Faith Historians said that the New Mormon scholars left faith out of their analyses. Many were members of FARMS, and often saw writers of New Mormon History as the same as other anti-Mormons, even though most writers of New Mormon History were Mormon. The difference between the New Mormon Faith Historians and New Mormon scholars was hard to define. \n\nAlong with Arrington's transfer and a subsequent increase in restrictions in the LDS Church Archives, several other incidents led to an intellectual chilling of Mormon history by Mormons in the 1990s. In 1992, Arrington wrote that \"the church cannot afford to place its official stamp of approval on any 'private' interpretation of its past,\" and this kind of history must be not sponsored by the LDS Church. In September 1993, the LDS church excommunicated the September Six, which included two historians: Lavina Fielding Anderson and D. Michael Quinn. These excommunications served as a warning to other Mormon historians. Quinn's excommunication was perhaps tied to his idea that Mormon women had been given the priesthood in 1843, which he published in an essay in \"Women and Authority: Re-emerging Mormon Feminism\". In 2003, he was scheduled to give a speech at a conference at Yale which was co-sponsored by BYU, and BYU stated they would withdraw their funding if Quinn presented his paper. That same year, Quinn applied to work as a professor at the University of Utah and Arizona State University. He was not hired as a professor, possibly because of fears that LDS people in power would retaliate against the university. In 1986, administrators were asked not to contribute to \"Dialogue\" or present at the Sunstone symposium; around 1990, BYU professors were asked not to contribute to \"Dialogue\" or \"Sunstone\". Eugene England, one of the founders of \"Dialogue\" and then a professor at BYU, spoke out against these prohibitions. He was asked not to write for the \"Encyclopedia of Mormonism\" in 1990, and in 1998 he was asked to retire from BYU without justification. England saw this as stemming from his publicly anti-war stance, and for his attention to Mormon racism and sexism. He viewed his differences as a potential source of learning for himself and others. After retiring from BYU, he started one of the first Mormon studies programs at Utah Valley State College. According to a 1997 report by the American Association of University Professors on academic freedom at BYU, Alan Wilkins was questioned about his motives for contributing to \"Dialogue\" and \"Sunstone\" in a tenure review. The report also mentioned other incidents where BYU administration criticized speakers and articles for criticism of the church, among other complaints. \n\nIn 1997, Joanna Brooks argued that the goal of Mormon studies was to critically examine Mormonism, not to determine religious truths. She postulated that Mormon studies done as a type of cultural studies will help scholars in the field feel less defensive and more productive. Outside of Brigham Young University and Utah, the University of North Carolina Press, Knopf, and the University of Oklahoma Press published books on Mormonism. In the 2000s, Jan Shipps was a large influence on news articles about Mormons; often she is the only expert cited for an entire article. In 2005, the National Endowment for the Humanities held a seminar at Brigham Young University on the bicentennial of Joseph Smith's birth. Terryl Givens, a comparative literature scholar, analyzed discourse about the Book of Mormon in \"By the Hand of Mormon: The American Scripture that Launched a New World Religion\" in 2002. \n\nMormon women's history has not been well-integrated in general histories. Arrington and Davis Bitton discussed women's issues in two chapters on marriage and sisterhood in \"The Mormon Experience\" (1992). \"The Story of the Latter-day Saints\" (1992) by James Allen and Glen Leonard mentioned women in the context of auxiliaries like Relief Society and Primary, plural marriage, suffrage, and the ERA. \"The Encyclopedia of Latter-day Saint History\" (2000) contained 435 entries about men, but only 64 about women, with three-quarters of the women receiving less than a page of description. Church publication \"Our Heritage\" (1996) only mentioned a few women. Women's history remained in a \"separate sphere.\" \"Daughters in My Kingdom\" (2011), an official history of the Relief Society, is mostly used in women's meetings. Outside of Mormon history specialists, Mormon women are rarely mentioned.\n\nNon-Mormon scholars are still often suspicious of LDS scholars' work. That is gradually changing as non-Mormon scholars increase and universities not affiliated with the LDS Church have endowed chairs for Mormon studies. Kathleen Flake is the first Richard L. Bushman Chair of Mormon Studies at University of Virginia, and Patrick Mason is the Howard W. Hunter Chair of Mormon Studies at Claremont Graduate University in California.\nThe Church History Library still restricts access to certain documents for most scholars. Scholars may self-censor their research for fear of losing access to documents from the Church History Library. Previous excommunications of Mormon historians give Mormon researchers the sense that they are being watched. Scholars from various disciplines see the \"New Mormon History\" movement as ending, bring replaced by \"Post New Mormon History\" or \"Newer Mormon History.\" This emerging movement is interdisciplinary and endeavors to place Mormon studies in a broader historical context, further eroding boundaries between disciplines. Mormon women's history has not been well-integrated with other Mormon studies topics. Contemporary historians like R. Marie Griffith, Grant Wacker, and Robert Orsi encourage the use of interdisciplinary tools in Mormon studies.\n\nIncluded in these interdisciplinary tools are oral histories. In 1972, an the Charles Redd Center for Western Studies was established at BYU, where Jessie L. Embry directed an extensive oral history project. The Church History Department started their own oral history project in 2009. Claudia L. Bushman and her students started the Claremont Oral History collection in 2009, and papers using the oral history data were published in \"Mormon Women Have Their Say: Essays from the Claremont Oral History Collection\".\n\nThe LDS Church History Department hired a specialist in women's history in 2011, Kate Holbrook. She co-authored \"The First Fifty Years of Relief Society: Key Documents in Latter-Day Saint Women's History\" with Jill Mulvay Derr, Carol Cornwall Madsen, and Matthew J. Grow. Laurel Thatcher Ulrich said the book was \"the most important work to emerge from a Mormon Press in the last 50 years.\" Jenny Reeder, specializing in 19th century women's history, was hired in 2013. Brittany Chapman Nash and Lisa Tait also specialize in women's history and work in the LDS Church history department. Nash works in public services and helps researchers to be aware of women's sources the archive offers. She co-authored \"Women of Faith in the Latter Days\" with Richard Turley. Tait works on the web team, helping to add a \"Women of Conviction\" section to church history website. In 2017, Reeder and Holbrook edited a compilation of women's speeches called \"At the Pulpit: 185 Years of Discourses by Latter-day Saint Women.\" \n\nThe Mormon blogosphere influences Mormon studies. In 2011, Patrick Mason surveyed 113 Mormon blog readers who were also graduate students. Most respondents viewed blogs as a way to democratize Mormon studies. Since blogs are independent from Church institutions, many felt that blogs were a safe space to test more unorthodox ideas. A few observed that men's voices are more prominent in the blogging community, though a few prominent blogs have all-women authors. Other respondents felt that blogs made Mormon studies \"more of an echo chamber,\" and were \"superficial,\" and \"glorified navel-gazing.\" One of the most popular blogs, By Common Consent, had over two million page visitors in 2011. It and other blogs are influential on Mormon studies.\n\nArchives with significant Mormon collections include the L. Tom Perry Special Collections at BYU, the Church Archives in Salt Lake, the J. Willard Marriott Library at the University of Utah in Salt Lake, Utah State University Libraries, and the Beinecke Rare Book and Manuscript Library at Yale in New Haven, Connecticut.\n\nAwards for writing or service in the field of Mormon studies are presented annually by scholarly societies. The Mormon History Association (MHA) and the John Whitmer Historical Association (JWHA) each present annual awards for various categories within Mormon history, such as books, biographies, documentary history, journal articles, and lifetime achievement. The MHA also gives awards for theses and student papers. The Utah State Historical Society (USHS), which frequently engages Mormon history, also presents awards for books, articles, and student papers. Literary awards are presented by the Association for Mormon Letters, often awarding Mormon publications in biography, criticism, and special categories. \"\" honors the best contributions to its journal and \"\" awards the best article submitted by a woman.\n\nUniversities also present awards. The University of Utah gives the Juanita Brooks Prize in Mormon Studies and offers a Mormon Studies Fellowship. Utah State University's Evans Biography Awards focus on biographies significant to \"Mormon Country\". Student writing competitions are held by Utah State University, the MHA, and the JWHA. BYU Religious Education presents annual awards to its faculty for teaching, research, and service, as well as books in the categories of church history or ancient scripture.\n\nSeveral universities have programs in the study of Mormonism, with professors named to oversee coursework, research, and events on Mormon studies. While independent academic programs have emerged in recent years, devotional religious education programs have existed far longer. Additional colleges have also taught courses on Mormonism without having institutionally sponsored programs, but they are not included in the list below.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe following primarily publish books on Mormon studies:\n\nSeveral publishers within the devotional religious market also occasionally publish in Mormon studies, including the LDS publishers Cedar Fort, Inc., Covenant Communications, and Deseret Book (which is owned by the LDS Church), as well as Herald House (which is owned by the Community of Christ).\n\nIn addition, certain general book publishers or university presses have also published significant Mormon studies. These include:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23941148", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23941148", "title": "Oxford Dance Symposium", "text": "Oxford Dance Symposium\n\nThe first Oxford Dance Symposium at New College, Oxford took place on 21 April 1999 with Dance on the English Stage, and has become an annual, international event which attracts scholars and practitioners from many parts of the world. Each symposium is designed to explore different aspects of dance, with particular reference to its musical, theatrical, literary and social context in Britain and Europe during the long 18th century; and as such has embraced subjects ranging from the 17th-century Stuart Masque and French ballet de cour to early 19th-century opera and ballet. There is a particular emphasis on new research or new appraisals of existing sources, and although the symposium issues no Proceedings, some of the papers from several symposia have been published as books of essays or as individual papers in academic journals. The symposium is organised each year by Michael Burden and Jennifer Thorp.\n\n\nThe symposium does not publish proceedings, but publications relating to the sessions have subsequently appeared.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56388021", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56388021", "title": "Pansophic Learning", "text": "Pansophic Learning\n\nPansophic Learning is a for-profit charter management organization with schools in the United States, Switzerland, and the United Kingdom. Pansophic is based in McLean, Virginia. Its Accel Schools subsidiary is the largest charter school operator in Ohio.\n\nPansophic was founded in 2014 by Ronald J. Packard, who had founded K12 in 1999. A 2015 acquisition made Pansophic the largest charter school operator in Ohio, with twelve schools and 3,286 students. It took over White Hat Management's \"vendor operated school\" contracts.\n\nIn 2014, the company bought the International School of Berne (Switzerland).\n\nThe company supplies the curricula for six schools operated by the Aurora Academies Trust in the United Kingdom.\n"}
{"id": "15756141", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15756141", "title": "Peachpit", "text": "Peachpit\n\nPeachpit is a publisher of books focused on graphic design, web design, and development. Peachpit's parent company is Pearson Education, which owns additional educational media brands including Addison-Wesley, Prentice Hall, and New Riders.\n\nFounded in 1986, Peachpit publishes the \"Visual QuickStart Guide\", \"Visual QuickPro Guide\", and \"Classroom in a Book\" series, in addition to the design imprint New Riders and its \"Voices That Matter\" series. Peachpit is the official publishing partner for Adobe Systems, Lynda.com, Apple Certified at Apple Inc, and other tech corporations.\n\nPeachpit Press was founded in 1986 by Ted Nace and Michael Gardner, and the two co-authored the company's first book, \"LaserJet Unlimited.\" Gardner served on the board of the company from 1986 to 1994 but did not take an active role in the company. Nace and Gardner named the company Peachpit because at the time, Nace and several of his friends were \"living and working in a peach colored house in Berkeley that was such a dump it was considered a 'pit.'\" Computer writer Elaine Weinmann described how Nace let authors typeset and illustrate their own books and described his publishing approach as user-friendly and innovative. The company grew in size and sales, and had a publishing orientation towards books relating to Apple computers, and was described as a leader in books about digital graphics. Nace served as publisher from 1986 until 1996, when Nancy Aldrich-Ruenzel assumed the publisher position. In 1994, Nace sold Peachpit Press to London-based media conglomerate Pearson PLC. Peachpit continued to operate out of Berkeley until a move to San Francisco in 2012.\nAlthough known as a Mac publisher Peachpit started out publishing Windows related books. Its first Macintosh books were \"The Little Mac Book\" and \"The Mac is not a typewriter,\" both by Robin Williams. In 1992, Peachpit purchased the \"Macintosh Bible\" series from Arthur Naiman's Goldstein and Blair (named after characters in the George Orwell novel 1984). In 1998, when Apple user share was down to 4% of the computer user market and Power Computing was making Mac clones, Peachpit was still publishing a large portion of Mac books. Peachpit published Visual QuickStart Guides for Mac.\n\nSome notable Peachpit authors include: David Blatner, Thom Hartmann, Deke McClelland, Ted Nace, Scott Kelby, Robin Williams, Don Rittner, Joe McNally, Larry Magid, Steve Krug, Jeffrey Zeldman, Jakob Nielsen, Bruce Schneier, Fred Davis, Seth Godin, Gary Wolf, Lynda Weinman, Ben Forta and Maria Langer.\n\n\nPeachpit Press also publishes or partners with Adobe Press, Apple Certified, lynda.com, and New Riders.\n"}
{"id": "9077920", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9077920", "title": "Peter Boal", "text": "Peter Boal\n\nPeter Boal is artistic director of Pacific Northwest Ballet and director of its affiliated school in Seattle, Washington. He was born in Bedford, New York, in 1965 and began studies at the School of American Ballet (SAB) at age nine.\n\nBoal assumed the directorship of Pacific Northwest Ballet in 2005 (from Kent Stowell and Francia Russell) following a successful career with the New York City Ballet (NYCB) which he joined in 1983 and where he was promoted to soloist in 1987, principal dancer in 1989, and from which he retired in 2005. He received his dance training from SAB under the directorship of George Balanchine.\n\nIn 2002, he founded Peter Boal and Company, a critically acclaimed chamber ensemble. Boal joined the faculty of SAB in 1997, teaching technique, variations, men’s and women’s classes, and partnering. He was a guest teacher at the Central Pennsylvania Youth Ballet and the Royal Danish Ballet's school.\n\nPeter Boal gave his final performance at City Ballet on Sunday, June 5, 2005. On a program that also included Robbins’ \"West Side Story Suite\" and Balanchine’s \"Agon\", he chose to dance Jerome Robbins’ \"Opus 19/The Dreamer\" and an excerpt from \"Apollo\", a role for which he was particularly noted.\n\nWhile at SAB, he danced in several ballets with NYCB, including Balanchine’s \"The Nutcracker\", in which he performed the role of the Nutcracker Prince. At City Ballet he has featured roles in over 40 ballets and had over 20 additional roles created on him by choreographers including Jerome Robbins, Peter Martins, Christopher Wheeldon, Christopher d'Amboise, Ulysses Dove and Twyla Tharp.\n\nPeter Boal married Kelly Boal (Cass) (also a dancer with NYCB) on August 15, 1992, in Balletin Colwall, England.\nPeter Boal has three children, 1 son born in 1995, another in 1997 and a daughter born in 2000.\n\n"}
{"id": "4774149", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4774149", "title": "RR Donnelley", "text": "RR Donnelley\n\nRR Donnelley is a Fortune 500 integrated communications company that provides marketing and business communications, commercial printing, and related services. Its corporate headquarters are located in Chicago, Illinois, United States.\n\nR.R. Donnelley & Sons Company was founded in Chicago in 1864 by Richard Robert Donnelley. His son, Reuben H. Donnelley, founded the otherwise unrelated company formerly known as R. H. Donnelley. \n\nRichard Robert Donnelley established his company in downtown Chicago, which in 1870 became the Lakeside Printing and Publishing Company. The business was destroyed in the Great Chicago Fire of 1871. After a series of reorganizations and expansions, Donnelley built the Lakeside Press Building on Plymouth Court, and in 1902 began construction of the R.R. Donnelley and Sons Co. Calumet Plant on 21st Street and Calumet Avenue. The company aimed to produce books and periodicals with impressive modern design and mass printed commercial and reference materials. Lakeside Press produced Encyclopædia Britannica, \"Time Magazine\", \"Life Magazine\", promotional literature for the Model T Ford, catalogs for Sears Roebuck, among others. The Press produced high quality collectible editions for the Chicago Caxton Club and the Limited Editions Club. Donnelly was the official printer for the 1933-1934 World's Fair, \"A Century of Progress,\" which took place on the Lake Michigan lakefront just to the east of the plant. The company designed and printed official tickets, postcards, posters, brochures, and magazines which displayed the company's distinctive modernist design. \" The company eventually became a global provider of printing and print-related services. From 1922-1945, the Director of Design and Typography was William A. Kittredge, who commissioned other well-regarded artists and designers, such as Rudolph Ruzicka, Edward A. Wilson, and W.A. Dwiggins.\n\nRR Donnelley's cartographic production facility grew to be one of the largest custom mapmaking companies in the United States. In the early 1990s, the division successfully integrated routing technology with its digital map databases and launched a separate company, Geosystems, which several years later became MapQuest.\n\nThe Calumet Plant, a building which also included company headquarters, was closed in 1993.\nIn 1908 T.E. Donnelley, son of the founder, opened Lakeside Press Apprentice School. Donnelley, a Yale graduate and a trustee of the University of Chicago, felt that the recent revival of the ancient practice of apprenticeship was unsatisfactory because unions dominated the rules. He determined to open a program modeled on the apprentice training program at the Chaix Printing Company in Paris, France, which combined instruction and practical experience. \"The whole plant,\" in the words of one official description, \"is the laboratory of the school\" The inscription for the 1913 handbook for apprentices stated that \"The employer should realize that engaging an apprentice is a much more important task than hiring a journeyman.\" A 1933 pamphlet bragged that the apprentices \"learn the ancient craft of printing on the finest of modern equipment\" and \"are imbued with the conviction that the better they do their work, the more they will earn and the higher they will rise.\n\nThe company was one of many which at the time offered apprenticeship courses of this type, ranging from the American Bridge Company and the American Locomotive Company to the Winchester Repeating Arms Company.\n\nIn the early years, ome 90 percent of the company's executives and supervisors were graduates of the Apprentice Training School and were either college graduates who had gone through a training program or had come up through the ranks. The firm’s turnover remained low. As Chicago became home to a northward migration of blacks, the workforce became stratified as non-whites found it hard to attain management positions. Racial tensions in the 1960s further weakened the company's ability to meet technological challenges and global competition. Declining fortunes led to layoffs and contention, and the school closed in 1993.\n\nDonnelley launched a \"Four American Books\" campaign in 1926 which culminated with their publication in 1930. The aim was to establish that the company's modern commercial machinery could produce illustrated books to rival high-quality presses in Europe and to establish a reputation as a printer of fine trade editions in order to enter the mass-market book industry. The choice of American authors reflected a growing pride in and market for American literature. C. G. Littell, vice president and treasurer, and William A. Kittredge, head of the department of design and typography, organized the campaign.\n\nWhen Kittredge approached William Addison Dwiggins about illustrating a book for the project, Dwiggins, who was a well-established designer of magazine and newspaper advertisements, replied that he welcomed the chance to \"do something besides waste-basket stuff\" which would be \"promptly thrown away.\" After he turned down several suggestions, Dwiggins agreed to illustrate the \"Tales\" of Edgar Allan Poe. The Press considered his fee of $2,000 low for an illustrator of his commercial power. Edward A. Wilson illustrated Richard Henry Dana's mid-19th century sea-adventure Two Years Before the Mast and Rudolph Ruzicka Henry David Thoreau's Walden.\n\nThe best known of the publications in the series was Rockwell Kent's edition of Herman Melville's novel, Moby-Dick, which at that point was not yet accepted as an American classic. Kittredge commissioned Kent to perform the design and illustrations in 1926, and the book appeared four years later in a three-volume limited edition of one-thousand copies issued in an aluminum slipcase. Kittredge called it \"the greatest book done in this generation\" and declared that \"we will all go jump in the lake\" if \"it is not the greatest illustrated book ever done in America.\" (In fact, the book is considered one of the finest of the 20th century.) Random House quickly issued a one-volume trade edition, which was also printed by Lakeside Press, bound in black cloth with silver print and decorations. The book's cover and the first advertisements both featured Kent's name but did not mention Melville's. Kent's design, especially in the Modern Library edition of 1943, helped the novel to find a wider audience.\n\nKent's illustrations give the impression of being woodcuts but are in fact ink and wash. Kent counselled Kittredge that the \"whole book is a work that should be read slowly, reflectively; the large page and type induce such reading. The character of the type should be homely, rather than refined and elegant, for homeliness flavors every line that Melville wrote.\" He wrote that he had thought of using a fourteen-point Caslon type-face, and he did make the pages rather large. The artist considered his illustrations \"literary woodcutting, not engraving,\" and added that the illustrations show the \"midnight darkness enveloping human existence, the darkness of the human soul, the abyss, -- such is the mood of Moby-Dick.\"\n\nIn 1992, the Library of Congress held an exhibition devoted to the Four American Classics series. \n\nin 1929, the company opened the Lakeside Galleries on the eight floor of their newly completed building on 22nd Street, near the shores of Lake Michigan. From 1930 to 1961, when corporate headquarters were moved, the galleries devoted exhibitions to the works of American and European artists and photographers, as well as to typography and book design.\n\nThroughout its history, particularly in the 1990s and 2000s, RR Donnelley purchased a number of other companies outright, steadily increasing in size. In February 2004, RR Donnelley merged with Moore Wallace Inc., keeping the name RR Donnelley as the name of the combined companies. Donnelley went on to purchase OfficeTiger, a major publishing and financial outsourcing company, as well as printing company Banta Corporation in 2007. In May 2007, RR Donnelley also acquired book and educational materials printer Von Hoffmann (and creative/ pre-press subsidiary Anthology Inc.) from Visant Corporation. An additional purchase at the beginning of 2007 was Perry Judd's Holdings Inc., a private catalog and magazine printer. At the beginning of 2008, RRD also announced the acquisition of Pro Line Printing, Inc. As of 2007, RR Donnelley is the world's largest commercial printer.\n\nIn 2005 it acquired Hong Kong based Asia Printers Group from CVC Capital Partners. Asia Printers Group consists of South China Printing, which was acquired by Asia Printers Group in 2002.\n\nIn 2006 it acquired Canadian Bank Note Company's financial printing business, consisting of documentation for initial public offerings.\n\nIn 2007, RR Donnelley was also named as an interested party in an attempt to purchase Quebecor World. In May 2009, the company tendered an unsolicited bid to purchase Quebecor World.\n\nIn July 2008, the company established a multi-year contract with F+W Publications Inc., which will allow Donnelley to print a large amount of F + W's book and magazine publications. The contract is valued at about $80 million.\n\nIn 2010 and 2011, RR Donnelley acquired Bowne & Co., San Francisco-based Nimblefish Technologies, Helium.com, and Austin-based LibreDigital.\n\nDuring the Labor Day weekend in September 2011, RR Donnelly announced it would close its Bloomsburg printing plant where Penguin Classics and paperbacks in the best-selling Twilight and Idiot's Guide series were printed.\n\nOn August 15, 2012, RR Donnelley acquired EDGAR Online.\n\nIn 2013, RR Donnelly acquired Consolidated Graphics.\n\nIn August 2015, the company announced it would spin-off into three different companies. One would keep the name RR Donnelley & Sons whereas the other two would be titled LSC Communications and Donnelley Financial Solutions. The spin was completed in October 2016.\n\nLakeside Press was a Chicago publishing imprint under which the RR Donnelley Company produced fine-quality books as well as mail order catalogs, telephone directories, encyclopedias, and advertising. The Press was best known for its high quality editions for the Chicago Caxton Club as well as the Lakeside Classics, a series of fine reprints produced annually, at Christmas time, by RR Donnelley. The Lakeside Classics tradition began in 1903 by Thomas E. Donnelley, who was then the company president. The basic format of these books remained essentially the same since inception, as a hardcover, cloth wrapped and gold embossed. Subject matter tended to cover elements of American history. Many early volumes contained speeches and writings of noted Americans, including Benjamin Franklin, whose autobiography was published as the first Lakeside Classic.\n\nLakeside Classics is a series started in 1903 that reprints neglected classic works. Thomas E. Donnelley, then president of the company, was impressed by a set of seven razors presented to him by one of the company's suppliers, and wanted to create a gift that would similarly represent his own company's product and could not be purchased on the open market. The company did not sell the books to the public, but gave each of the company employees a copy at Christmas, making the series valued collectors items.\n\nThomas Donnelley wrote in the introduction to \"Autobiography of Benjamin Franklin\", the first volume in the series, that \"If, in a modest way this volume conveys the idea that machine-made books are not a crime against art, and that books may be plain but good, and good though not costly, its mission has been accomplished.\" Following volumes featured speeches and writings of noted Americans, then in the 1910s selections turned to first-person narratives of American history, especially those which were rare or out of print. Themes included the Civil War, the Old West, exploration and frontier life. In the 1990s, several changes were introduced. Partly to acknowledge the company's global markets, narratives by Americans abroad were included.\n\nAn early admirer wrote in 1923 that the printing, binding, and finishings were all done by the apprentice class to \"illustrate the ideals of a well-made book,\" and that \"not only are these books well made, but they contain historical works, autobiographies, and early travels unforgettable to him who loves this fair land.\" He concluded that the series is becoming \"an institution near and dear to the collector of books of intrinsic value and beauty.\" \n\nMinor design changes were made occasionally and a major redesign every quarter century. In 1995, the date line on the title page was changed from \"Christmas\" to \"December.\" For the redesign in 2003, Bruce Campbell, known for his work on The Library of America, was engaged. Among other changes, the gold-framing on the cover was restored and the typeface was changed from Bulmer to Garamond \n\nThe company did not keep detailed records on how many copies were printed. The preface to the 1935 volume says that the print run for the first volume was 1,500 copies, but no further information was included in later editions. In the 1970s printings were in the tens of thousands. The hardest volume to find is the 1904 \"Inaugural Addresses of the Presidents, Washington to Lincoln\". It is not known whether the run was smaller or whether collectors of Washington and Lincoln have kept them off the market by retaining them. The second scarcest is \"Fruits of Solitude\", which may have been easy to lose because it had the fewest number of pages. The difficulty of finding the volume \"Memorable Speeches\" led one family member to joke that the speeches were so unmemorable that everyone threw them out. The Chicago publisher Reilly & Britton, a Chicago publisher, was given rights to reissue some of the earliest titles as “The Patriotic Classics.”\n\nBy 2015, the series included 113 volumes.\n\nLakeside Classics were not sold to the public and only made available to RR Donnelley employees, clients and others associated with the company. The week before Christmas, each employee was given one copy of that year's volume. As such, some of the volumes have become scarce, and are in demand on the collectors' market. Antiquarian bookstores often have a section devoted to Lakeside Classics, and early volumes command large sums from book collectors.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42782975", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42782975", "title": "Roberta Millstein", "text": "Roberta Millstein\n\nRoberta L. Millstein is Professor of Philosophy at the University of California, Davis, with affiliations in the Science and Technology Studies Program and the John Muir Institute for the Environment. She is the Senior Co-Chair of the Philosophy of Science Association’s Women's Caucus and an Editor of the peer-reviewed online open-access journal Philosophy & Theory in Biology. Millstein’s primary research is in the history and philosophy of biology and environmental ethics. Millstein’s work on the concepts of natural selection and random genetic drift is widely cited.\n\nMillstein earned her A.B. in Philosophy and Computer Science from Dartmouth College in 1988 and her M.A. and Ph.D. in Philosophy (with a minor in the History of Science and Technology) from the University of Minnesota, Twin Cities in 1997. Millstein taught in the Philosophy Department at California State University, East Bay from 1997-2006, serving as Interim Chair in 2005-6, and she was a Visiting Associate Professor in the Department of History and Philosophy of Science at the University of Pittsburgh in 2005. Now Millstein teaches at the University of California, Davis, where she has been since 2006.\n\nWhile in graduate school, Millstein studied under John Beatty and C. Kenneth Waters. She has co-authored with Michael R. Dietrich and Robert A. Skipper, Jr.\n\nMillstein is best known for her claim that within evolutionary theory, natural selection can be distinguished from random genetic drift if both are properly understood as causal processes rather than outcomes. She is also known for the claim that natural selection is a population-level causal process but (in a paper co-authored with Robert A. Skipper, Jr.) that current philosophical accounts of mechanisms do not capture it well. Her work on the concepts of population and metapopulation has been described as exemplifying an approach where biology and philosophy work as equal disciplinary contributors. Her recent co-edited volume ‘’Mechanism and Causality in Biology and Economics’’ (with Hsiang-Ke Chao and Szu-Ting Chen) has been called a “collection of excellent essays” with “novel subject matter”; her own essay in the book is described as a “model of clarity.”\n\n\n"}
{"id": "242570", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=242570", "title": "Ruth Westheimer", "text": "Ruth Westheimer\n\nRuth Westheimer (born June 4, 1928), better known as Dr. Ruth, is a German-born, Jewish immigrant to the United States who became a fixture in late-night television and a major pop culture figure as a sex therapist, media personality, and author. Her media career began in 1980 with the radio show, \"Sexually Speaking\", which continued until 1990. She also hosted at least five television shows on the Lifetime and other cable television from 1984 to 1993. She is also the author of approximately 40 books on a variety of topics about sex and sexuality.\n\nWestheimer was born Karola Ruth Siegel on June 4, 1928, in Wiesenfeld (near Karlstadt am Main), Germany, the only child of Orthodox Jews Irma (née Hanauer), a housekeeper and Julius Siegel, a notions wholesaler and son of the family for whom Irma worked. She was given an early grounding in Judaism by her father, who took her regularly to the synagogue in Frankfurt, where they lived. In January 1939, she was sent to an orphanage in Switzerland by her mother and grandmother as part of the \"Kindertransport\" after her father had been taken by the Nazis. She stopped receiving her parents' letters in September 1941. In 1945, Westheimer learned that her parents had been killed in the Holocaust, possibly at the Auschwitz concentration camp.\n\nWestheimer decided to emigrate to British-controlled Mandatory Palestine. There, at 17, she \"first had sexual intercourse on a starry night, in a haystack, without contraception.\" She later told \"The New York Times\" that \"I am not happy about that, but I know much better now and so does everyone who listens to my radio program.\" Westheimer joined the Haganah in Jerusalem. Because of her diminutive height of , she was trained as a scout and sniper. Of this experience, she said, \"I never killed anybody, but I know how to throw hand grenades and shoot.\" Westheimer was seriously wounded in action by an exploding shell during the Israeli War of Independence in 1948, and it was several months before she was able to walk again.\n\nIn 1950, Westheimer moved to France, where she studied and then taught psychology at the University of Paris. In 1956, she immigrated to the United States, settling in Washington Heights, Manhattan. Westheimer earned an M.A. degree in sociology from The New School in 1959 and an Ed.D. degree from Teachers College, Columbia University in 1970.\n\nWestheimer became a naturalized U.S. citizen in 1965. She regained her German citizenship in 2012 through the German Citizenship Project that enabled descendants of Germans deprived of their citizenship during the Third Reich to reclaim their citizenship without losing the citizenship of their home country.\n\nAfter receiving her Ed.D., she briefly worked for Planned Parenthood and this experience encouraged her to continue studying human sexuality. She went on to work as a postdoctoral researcher for Helen Singer Kaplan at New York-Presbyterian Hospital. She continued to work there as an Adjunct Associate Professor for five years. She also taught at Lehman College, Brooklyn College, Adelphi University, Columbia University and West Point.\n\nDr. Ruth's media career began in 1980 when her radio show, \"Sexually Speaking\", debuted on WYNY-FM in New York City. She was offered this opportunity after she gave a lecture to New York broadcasters about the need for sex education programming to help deal with issues of contraception and unwanted pregnancies. Betty Elam, the community affairs manager at WYNY, was impressed with her talk and offered Westheimer $25 per week to make \"Sexually Speaking\", which started as a 15-minute show airing every Sunday at midnight. By 1983, her show was the top-rated radio show in the area, and in 1984, NBC Radio began syndicating it nationwide, renaming the show to the \"Dr. Ruth Show\". She went on to produce her radio show until 1990. Described as the, \"Sister Wendy of Sexuality\", Dr. Ruth helped to revolutionize talk about sex and sexuality on radio and television, and she was noted for having, \"an accent only a psychologist could love.\" She became known for being candid and funny, but respectful, and for her tag phrase, \"Get some\". One journalist described her unique voice as, \"a cross between Henry Kissinger and Minnie Mouse.\"\n\nIn 1984, Westheimer began hosting several television programs on the Lifetime TV network and one in syndication. Her first show was \"Good Sex! With Dr. Ruth Westheimer\", airing for a half hour at 10 pm on weeknights. This show was expanded in 1985 to a full hour and its name was changed to \"The Dr. Ruth Show\". In 1987, she began a separate half hour syndicated series on many broadcast stations called, \"Ask Dr. Ruth\", which was co-hosted by Larry Angelo. Dr. Ruth returned to the Lifetime network in 1988 with \"The All New Dr. Ruth Show\", which was followed in 1989 by two teen advice shows called \"What's Up, Dr. Ruth?\" and a call-in show, \"You're on the Air with Dr. Ruth\" in 1990. In 1993, Westheimer and Israeli TV host, Arad Nir, hosted a talk show in Hebrew, titled \"Min Tochnit\", on the newly opened Israeli Channel 2. The show was similar to her US \"Sexually Speaking\" show. The name of the show, \"Min Tochnit\", is a play of words: literally \"Kind of a program\", but \"Min\" (מין) in Hebrew also means \"sex\" and \"gender\".\n\nDuring the 1980s, \"Dr. Ruth\", became a household name and she made guest appearances on several network television shows, including \"The Tonight Show Starring Johnny Carson\" and \"Late Night with David Letterman\". She also made frequent appearances on the syndicated revival of \"Hollywood Squares\" that ran from 1986 to 1989. In the 1990s, Westheimer appeared as herself in episode 89 of \"Quantum Leap\", the episode title being \"Dr. Ruth\". She appeared on Tom Chapin's album \"This Pretty Planet\", in the song \"Two Kinds of Seagulls\", in which she and Chapin sing of various animals that reproduce sexually. \"It takes two to tingle\", says the song. Dr. Ruth also appeared in several commercial advertisements, including a 1994 Honda Prelude ad, and an ad for Clairol Herbal Essences shampoo and body wash.\n\nBetween 2001 and 2007, Westheimer made regular appearances on the PBS Television children's show \"Between the Lions\" as \"Dr. Ruth Wordheimer\" in a parody of her therapist role, in which she helps anxious readers and spellers overcome their fear of long words. In the January 2009, the 55th anniversary issue of \"Playboy\" magazine includes Westheimer as #13 in the list of the 55 most important people in sex from the past 55 years. In October 2013, the play, \"Becoming Dr. Ruth\" opened Off Broadway. Actress Debra Jo Rupp played the role of Dr. Ruth. The play showcased the sex therapist's life from fleeing the Nazis in the Kindertransport and joining the Haganah in Jerusalem as a scout and sniper, to her struggles to succeed as a single mother coming to America. Eileen DeSandre played Dr. Ruth in the Virginia Repertory Theatre production of \"Becoming Dr. Ruth\".\n\nWestheimer has delivered commencement speeches at the Hebrew Union College seminary, Lehman College of the City University of New York, and, in 2004, at Trinity College, where she has been awarded honorary degrees. She also taught courses and seminars at Princeton and Yale, and was the guest speaker at the Bronx High School of Science in New York in commemoration of Yom HaShoah 2008. Westheimer spoke about her life story and the audience of 500 sang \"Happy Birthday\" in honor of her 80th birthday. At the ceremony she received an honorary Bronx High School of Science diploma. In 2002, she received the Leo Baeck Medal for her humanitarian work promoting tolerance and social justice.\n\nWestheimer has been married three times. She said that each of her marriages played an important role in her relationship advice, but after two divorces, it was her third marriage, to Manfred Westheimer, that was the \"real marriage\". This lasted until his death in 1997. She has two children, Miriam and Joel, and four grandchildren. In December 2014, Westheimer was a guest at an Orthodox Jewish wedding in the Bronx, NY. The groom, Rabbi Benjamin Goldschmidt, is the great-grandson of the woman who had helped rescue Westheimer from Nazi Germany. She still lives in the \"cluttered three-bedroom apartment in Washington Heights where she raised her two children and became famous, in that order.\" Because of the two synagogues she belongs to, the YMHA she was president of for three years, and a \"still sizable community of German Jewish World War II refugees\", she remains in the neighborhood. She speaks English, German, French, and Hebrew.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29047886", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29047886", "title": "School fundraising", "text": "School fundraising\n\nSchool fundraising or school fund raising is the practice of raising money to support educational enrichment programs by schools or school groups mostly known from the United States (e.g., parent-teacher organizations, booster clubs, etc.). One of the most prevalent practices in the United States is product fundraising. Schools and other non-profits raise $1.7 billion each year by selling popular consumer items. Eight out of 10 Americans support these types of programs. In addition, schools and school groups such as their Parent Teacher Organization and Parent Teacher Association find many creative ways to raise funds—from bake sales, dinner events, auctions and school carnivals to more aggressive advertising, affinity programs, grant writing and straight forward donation requests.\n\nProduct fundraising has its origins in the early 20th century. The practice typically involves the purchase and re-sale of popular consumer products by a non-profit group whereupon the group sponsoring the sale keeps a portion of the gross sales. Products can be purchased in bulk and paid for in advance by the organization, then re-sold to supporters. Products may also be ordered using a catalog, order forms and other methods. Supporters pay for the product when the order is placed or upon final delivery. Under some product fundraising models, the school or non-profit organization is required to pay for a fixed number of products in advance.\n\nThere are three types of product fundraisers that schools use to generate revenue. (1) Pre-sales Fundraising, (2) Product In-Hand Fundraising, (3) Online Fundraising, with online fundraising rising in popularity over the course of the past decade.\n\nAs of 2010, there are over a thousand fundraising companies in the United States offering their products and services to schools and their associated nonprofit parent teacher groups. In the past year, many changes have occurred in the school fundraising industry. A few online fundraising companies, like Piggybackr, are now using social media web apps, such as Facebook and Twitter, to make online fundraising easier for schools and the parents and students who promote them. Additionally, Fundraising Software is also now available allowing a school to have their own platform that makes it easy to engage students, parents, faculty, donors, and alumni with compelling communication campaigns.\n\nOther school fundraisers that generate substantial revenue for schools include auctions and raffles. With these types of fundraising activities, the school requests donations from local restaurants and businesses in their area, that are then offered at the event. In the case of an auction, people are allowed to bid on the dinner, limousine ride, or whatever was donated by the local businesses in the community. In the case of a raffle, people purchase raffle tickets that are then later picked randomly from a container. Often the donations are solicited by parents acting on behalf of the school, who make phone calls, write letters, or know of other parents who work for companies who may be willing to donate.\n\nScrip fundraising offers an alternative to fundraisers that rely on selling products or raffle tickets. The scrip fundraising concept was pioneered by St. Vincent DePaul Parish in Petaluma CA in 1988, and quickly grew to a powerful fundraising method for schools across the US.\n\nWith scrip fundraising, retailers offer gift cards (“scrip”, or “substitute money”) at a discount to non-profit organizations. The non-profit organizations then sell the gift cards to member families at full face value. The families redeem the gift cards at full face value, and the discount or rebate is retained by the non-profit organization as revenue.\n\nGreat Lakes Scrip Center reports that more than 17,000 non-profit organizations have raised more than $500 million with scrip fundraising. Scrip fundraising differs from other school fundraising programs because there is no selling. Families do their normal household shopping at scrip retailers with scrip gift cards. A family that regularly does their shopping with scrip gift cards can easily raise $500 to $1000 or more per year. Participating schools use these funds for field trips, scholarships, tuition assistance or fee reductions.\n\nOne persistent and basic question has been whether or not any portion of the funds that are raised through a scrip program and applied to a family’s tuition account should be considered taxable income to the parent who purchases the scrip. According to Great Lakes Scrip Center, scrip is a reduction in purchase price from the face value, and is in effect a rebate from the retailer, and as such is not considered gross income.\n\nSome parents and schools are now having to resort to extensive fundraising, including in one case having to raise $300,000 in six months to close budget gaps in order to keep Cordova Lane Elementary School in Sacramento, California open.\n\nAdditionally, general economic hardships can cause school fundraisers to earn less, as volunteer time is spread thin with more families requiring dual incomes. A survey done by national fundraising association in 2007 determined that on average the most labor-intensive school wide fundraisers, in terms of the number of volunteers needed is school carnivals, with an average of 59 volunteers needed. Other labor-intensive fundraisers included: auctions (28), \"thons\" such as walk-a-thons (22), breakfasts or dinners (17) and raffles (17). By contrast the least labor-intensive fundraisers for schools included: product fundraisers (7), direct donations (7), restaurant nights (6) and student portraits (2). Another survey from the same source showed 71% of parents are \"concerned and overwhelmed\" with having to do more fundraisers.\n\nDoor-to-door fundraising and in hand product fundraising sales (out side local stores) has been a regular part of societal activities since the early 1970s. However, door-to-door sales came under scrutiny in 1997 following the murder of an 11-year-old New Jersey boy who was killed while fundraising unsupervised in his neighborhood. Due to this fundraisers do not allow kids to go door to door. Today, most product sales are made to parents, family members, co-workers, friends and close neighbors. The fundraising industry strongly discourages unsupervised door-to-door sales.\n\n"}
{"id": "30855525", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30855525", "title": "School of Hard Knocks", "text": "School of Hard Knocks\n\nThe School of Hard Knocks — or University of Hard Knocks — is an idiomatic phrase meaning the (sometimes painful) education one gets from life's usually negative experiences, often contrasted with formal education. The term is frequently misattributed to George Ade, but was actually coined by Elbert Hubbard in a piece he wrote on himself for Cosmopolitan in 1902.\n\nIt is a phrase which is most-typically used by a person to claim a level of wisdom imparted by life experience, which should be considered at least equal in merit to academic knowledge. It is a response that may be given when one is asked about his or her education, particularly if they do not have an extensive formal education but rather life experiences that should be valued instead. It may also be used facetiously, to suggest that formal education is not of practical value compared with \"street\" experience. In the UK, Australia and New Zealand, the phrases \"University of Life\" and \"School of Hard Knocks\" may be used interchangeably.\n\nIn 1947, newspaperman James Franklin Comstock (\"Jim\" Comstock) founded the “University of Hard Knocks”, an honorary society with a mission to recognize people who have made a success of their life without the benefit of higher education. Alderson Broaddus College in Philippi, West Virginia, USA, sponsored the organization, which moved its offices to the A-B campus in 1976. The society was dissolved in 2014.\n\n"}
{"id": "11281296", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11281296", "title": "Siviløkonom", "text": "Siviløkonom\n\nSiviløkonom (literally \"civil economist\") is an academic degree issued within the field of business administration and a professional title in Norway (with corresponding titles in Denmark and Sweden, see below under \"See also\"), obtained after 3 to 5 years of studies. The title is protected and can only be used by persons having met certain qualifications as directed by the Norwegian Ministry of Education and Research. It is mainly offered by nine institutions after the completion of a Master of Science in Business Administration.\n\nMaster of Science in Business Administration programs entitling the Siviløkonom in Norway are:\n\nAdditionally, the title can be granted to candidates with foreign education meeting certain criteria, through application to the NHH. Due to changes in the Norwegian educational system, granting of the title based on foreign education will be phased out on 12/31/2008, and can through that date only be granted to persons who started their qualifying education prior to 1/1/2003.\n\nTraditionally the siviløkonom degree was only offered at NHH in Bergen, and was originally a two-year, then three-year program. In 1975 it became a four-year business administration degree at the level equivalent to a cand.mag. degree. NHH had a monopoly on awarding the degree until 1985 when the Norwegian School of Management BI and the Bodø Graduate School of Business was allowed to offer the degree. After the quality reform all institutions of higher education were allowed to issue the title to all master graduates, and the requirements for the degree increased from four to five years of study.\n\n"}
{"id": "987026", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=987026", "title": "Southern Association of Colleges and Schools", "text": "Southern Association of Colleges and Schools\n\nThe Southern Association of Colleges and Schools (SACS) is one of the six regional accreditation organizations recognized by the United States Department of Education and the Council for Higher Education Accreditation. This agency accredits over 13,000 public and private educational institutions ranging from preschool to college level in the Southern United States. Its headquarters are in North Druid Hills, Georgia, near Decatur and in the Atlanta metropolitan area. \n\nSACS accredits educational institutions in the states of Florida, Georgia, Kentucky, Louisiana, Mississippi, North Carolina, South Carolina, Alabama, Tennessee, Texas, and Virginia, as well as schools for US students in Mexico, the Caribbean, Central America, and South America.\n\nThere are a number of affiliate organizations within the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools. One affiliate organization is the Southern Association of Community, Junior, and Technical Colleges.\n\nThe SACS Commission on Colleges (SACSCOC) accredits universities and colleges in Alabama, Florida, Georgia, Kentucky, Louisiana, Mississippi, North Carolina, South Carolina, Tennessee, Texas, Virginia, and Latin America (Extraterritorial).\n\nEvery six months, the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools Commission on Colleges publishes an online report on its accreditation actions, including reaffirmations of accreditation and public sanctions of institutions of higher learning. The reports include specific public sanctions of schools and statements disclosing why those institutions have been placed on sanction.\n\nThe Commission on Colleges accredits both public and private institutions of higher education in the United States, including some community colleges as well as four-year institutions. As a regional accreditor, SACSCOC accreditation extends to all of the educational programs offered at the accredited institution.\n\nInstitutions in Latin America accredited by SACSCOC include the Mexican universities of Fundación Universidad de las Américas, Puebla; Universidad de las Americas, A.C.; Universidad de Monterrey; Tecnológico de Monterrey; Instituto Centroamericano de Administración de Empresas (INCAE or the Central American Institute of Business Administration) in Costa Rica and Nicaragua; and Keiser University Latin American Campus in Nicaragua. The SACSCOC has also accredited the American University in Dubai.\n\nSACS CASI accredits over 13,000 primary, middle, and secondary schools, as well as school systems located in the SACS region. In 2006, AdvancED was established with the unification of SACS CASI, NCA CASI, and NSSE creating the world's largest education community. Today, SACS CASI acts as an accreditation division of AdvancED.\n\n"}
{"id": "25518484", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25518484", "title": "Susan M. Campbell", "text": "Susan M. Campbell\n\nSusan M. Campbell, Ph.D. (born July 16, 1941) is an American self-help author.\n\nCampbell earned her Ph.D. in psychology from the University of Massachusetts in 1967, and remained as a member of that school’s Graduate Faculty until 1977, when joined Saybrook University in San Francisco where she holds an adjunct faculty appointment.\nShe was also on the faculty of the unaccredited International University of Professional Studies.\nSince 1967 she has also pursued a career as a professional speaker and a consultant and trainer. She is also President of Getting Real Resources, a coaching and training company.\n\nHer work has been featured in magazines including \"New Woman\", \"Psychology Today\", \"Self\", \"Harvard Business Review,\" \"Seventeen\", \"Men's Health\", \"New Age,\" \"Fast Company\", and \"Yoga Journal\", and she has been a guest on national TV talk shows such as \"Dr. Dean Edell\", CNNs \"NewsNight\", and \"Good Morning America\", and has guest lectured at the Harvard, Stanford, and UCLA business schools.\n\nHer most recent work, described in her best-selling book, \"Getting Real\" and her more recent \"Truth in Dating\", and \"Saying Whats Real\", centers on using honest communication for personal healing and expanded self-awareness. The roots of this work are in Buddhist psychology, Gestalt Therapy, Sensory Awareness, Psychoanalysis, and Jungian psychology.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42400897", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42400897", "title": "Tamar Sanikidze", "text": "Tamar Sanikidze\n\nTamar Sanikidze () (born 30 August 1978 in Tbilisi) was the Minister of Education and Science of Georgia until the announcement of her resignation on June 3rd of 2016..\n\nTamar attended Tbilisi State University from 1995 to 1998, earning a bachelor's degree, specializing in English literature. She received a master's degree at the Georgian Institute of Public Affairs in 2000, and participated in the University of Glasgow Distance Learning Program from 2003 to 2007.\n\nTamar was a leading specialist for the Naval Department of the Ministry of Transport from March 1998 to July 1999.\n\nShe has held multiple positions in the Georgian Urban Institute. From 2006 to 2009, she was the financial manager for the institute, and a purchasing manager from July 2005 to May 2006. In 2005, she was made the coordinator of the institute's Resource Management Program. She was also a financial manager for the Institute of Public Affairs from 2009 to October 2012. She was appointed as Minister of Education and Science the same year, replacing Deputy Giorgi Margvelashvili, the current President of Georgia.\n\nFrom May 2001 to September 2003, she was the Deputy Financial Director of the Black & Veach (UK) LTD in the Tbilisi Financial Project. From November 2000 to May 2001, she was assigned to assess construction works for the same company.\n\nSanikidze's tenure as Education Minister came under repeated criticism for the low number of teachers who passed their professional exams.\n"}
{"id": "47721887", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47721887", "title": "Taras Kulakov", "text": "Taras Kulakov\n\nTaras Kulakov (), better known as CrazyRussianHacker, is a Ukrainian-born Russian-American YouTuber best known for his \"life hacks\", scientific experiments (or in other terms: science experiment demonstration, science demonstrations), testing videos and his motto \"Safety is number one priority.\" His YouTube channel, \"CrazyRussianHacker\", created in 2012, has over 2.4 billion views and 10 million subscribers (as of October 2018) and is one of the platform's top 200 channels. He has an estimated net worth of around $7 million. He also has a second YouTube channel, \"Taras Kul\", with over 3 million subscribers (as of February 2018). His third YouTube channel, \"Taras - Kul Farm\" has over 262 thousand subscribers (As of November 2018).\n\nKulakov was born in the Ukrainian SSR (now Ukraine). His mother was Russian, and his father was Ukrainian. He has been a swimmer since 1996 and joined the Ukrainian Olympic team as a professional swimmer.\n\nIn 2006, with his family he moved to Asheville, North Carolina, where he worked at Walmart until 2012 while developing his early YouTube channels. \n\nIn a Q&A video, he clarified that the last place he lived before moving to the United States was the city of Donetsk, Ukraine. However, he grew up speaking Russian and therefore considers himself Russian.\n\nHe has two brothers and three sisters as stated in his September, 2016 Q&A video. He also claims to have a half brother and a half sister as well.\n\nHe is currently living with his wife Katherine and his pets, including two Siberian Huskies named Luke and Hugo, along with an Alaskan Malamute named Gus. \nKulakov is a very active YouTuber, releasing a video per 1–3 days. As of January 2018, he has over 10 million subscribers for his CrazyRussianHacker channel. His videos range from life hacks to chemiluminescence in action. He is known for his sense of humour and Russian accent. He created his first channel, \"origami768\", on October 14, 2009, for origami tutorial videos. Later, he renamed this channel to \"Taras Kul\", which he uses as a second channel, and currently has over 3 million subscribers. His second attempt at YouTube fame came with \"SlomoLaboratory\" later renamed \"Slow Mo Lab\", alongside his brother Dima. His popularity skyrocketed with his third channel, CrazyRussianHacker, in 2012. In 2014 he started another YouTube channel, where he posted gun videos. \nWith the new YouTube community guidelines starting mid-2017, he saw himself forced to delete the gun content. He renamed this channel to \"Taras - Kul Farm\" and has regullary been posting videos about his pets for his 253 thousand subscribers on this channel. As of 2018, he has over 10 million subscribers and has released more than 1000 videos on CrazyRussianHacker and continues to maintain the Taras Kul channel with additional content.\n\nIn one of the experiments on his CrazyRussianHacker channel, Kulakov demonstrated the unique properties of ferrofluid by interacting it with oil infused nano-scale iron oxide particles. The video also highlighted the magnetic fields created by the neodymium magnet.\n\n"}
{"id": "84449", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=84449", "title": "The Closing of the American Mind", "text": "The Closing of the American Mind\n\nThe Closing of the American Mind: How Higher Education Has Failed Democracy and Impoverished the Souls of Today's Students is a 1987 book by the philosopher Allan Bloom. In the book, Bloom criticizes the \"openness\" of relativism, in academia and society in general, as leading paradoxically to the great \"closing\" referenced in the book's title. In Bloom's view, \"openness\" and absolute understanding undermine critical thinking and eliminate the \"point of view\" that defines cultures. Bloom's book became an unexpected best seller, eventually selling close to half a million copies in hardback, but drew divided reactions from reviewers.\n\nBloom critiques the contemporary American university and how he sees it as failing its students, criticizing modern movements in philosophy and the humanities. Throughout the book, he attacks the \"moral relativism\" that he claims has taken over American universities for the barrier it constructs to the notions of truth, critical thinking, and genuine knowledge. Bloom claims that students in the 1980s have prioritized the immediate, blind relegation of prejudice as inferiority of thought, and therefore have \"closed\" their mind, as the title suggests, to asking the right questions, so that prejudice may be eradicated through logic and critical thinking, as opposed to empty, baseless instinct. Bloom writes, \"Prejudices, strong prejudices, are visions about the way things are. ... Error is indeed our enemy, but it alone points to the truth and therefore deserves our respectful treatment. The mind that has no prejudices at the outset is empty.\"\n\nIn part one, titled \"Students\", Bloom details how the young American mindset, the books, music, relationships, and other aspects of American popular culture contribute to the sanctimony of what he perceives to be dull, lazy minds in American universities today. Bloom contends that the \"clean slate\" with which students enter universities at first made them more susceptible to genuinely embracing the studies of philosophy and logic. But soon, because of \"[t]he improved education of the vastly expanded middle class [that] weakened the family's authority\", there came a \"gradual stilling of the old political and religious echoes\" in the students Bloom encountered later in his teaching career. He credits the narrowing and flattening of the American college experience to these phenomena.\n\nBloom then delves into what he believes is the \"Great Books\" dilemma. He believes that the \"great books\" of Western thought have been devalued as a source of wisdom—but more importantly, that \"our students have lost the practice of and the taste of reading\". Because of this, students are unable to derive their beliefs from evidence, from central texts, or any print source at all. Bloom contends that without an understanding of important older texts, such as Plato's \"Republic\" or Niccolò Machiavelli's \"The Prince\", modern students lack any reference point with which they can critically think about or address current events. Students are instead left with vague and abstract ideas of \"good\" and \"evil\".\n\nBloom notes that the \"addiction to music\" he observes in modern students is unparalleled, and has been for centuries. But even this, he says, contributes to the closing of the young American mind. He notes that fewer and fewer students have a surface level, let alone nuanced, understanding of classical music, and that instead, \"rock music is as unquestioned and un-problematic as the air the students breathe.\" Pop music, he believes, employs sexual images and language to enthrall the young and to persuade them that their petty rebelliousness is authentic politics, when, in fact, they are being controlled by the money-managers whom successful performers like Mick Jagger quietly serve. He regards the ubiquity of overly sexual overtones in 1980s rock music and what he perceives to be a subsequent corruption of young minds as a signal of \"parents' loss of control over the children's moral education at a time when no one else is seriously concerned with it.\" Bloom's conclusion about the effects of music on education is that its oversexualization in the late 20th century makes it \"very difficult for [students] to have a passionate relationship with the art and thought that are the substance of liberal education, [since] [i]t only artificially induces the exaltation attached to the completion of the greatest endeavors ... like discovery of the truth.\" Students no longer seek pleasure from the pursuit of learning.\n\nBloom concludes in \"Students\" that because of the relationships students have with popular culture, their family, and their peers, they no longer come to university asking questions, seeking instruction, or with imagination.\n\nBloom titles the second part of the book \"Nihilism, American Style\". He introduces in further detail the concept of \"value relativism\", mentioned previously only in the introduction. Value relativism, he says, plagues most elite institutions of higher learning. For Bloom, this dissolved into nihilism. He notices that students follow the path of least resistance when developing their values. For students, he writes, \"values are not discovered by reason, and it is fruitless to seek them, to find the truth or the good life.\" Ironically, when travelling this path without reason, Bloom opines, students still \"adopt strong poses and fanatic resolutions.\"\n\nPhilosophy professors involved in ordinary language analysis or logical positivism disregard important \"humanizing\" ethical and political issues and fail to pique the interest of students. Literature professors involved in deconstructionism promote irrationalism and skepticism of standards of truth and thereby dissolve the moral imperatives which are communicated through genuine philosophy and which elevate and broaden the intellects of those who engage with these imperatives. To a great extent, Bloom's critique extends beyond the university to speak to the general crisis in American society. He draws analogies between the United States and the Weimar Republic. The modern liberal philosophy, he says, enshrined in the Enlightenment thought of John Locke—that a just society could be based upon self-interest alone, coupled by the emergence of relativism in American thought—had led to this crisis. Bloom cites Friedrich Nietzsche's actions of telling \"modern man that he was free-falling in the abyss of nihilism\", and continues to espouse Nietzsche's commentary that nihilism in our contemporary democracy stems from value relativism.\n\nFor Bloom, this created a void in the souls of Americans, into which demagogic radicals as exemplified by 1960s student leaders could leap. (Bloom made the comparison to the Nazi brownshirts, who once similarly filled the gap created in German society by the Weimar Republic.) In the second instance, he argued, the higher calling of philosophy and reason understood as freedom of thought, had been eclipsed by a pseudo-philosophy, or an ideology of thought. Relativism was one feature of modern American liberal philosophy that had subverted the Platonic–Socratic teaching.\n\nBloom contends that the failure of contemporary liberal education leads to the sterile social and sexual habits of modern students, and to their inability to fashion a life for themselves beyond the mundane offerings touted as success. Bloom argues that commercial pursuits had become more highly valued than love, the philosophic quest for truth, or the civilized pursuits of honor and glory. In \"The University\", he discusses how the environment in elite institutions has cultivated mere ambition over the search for truth. He says that proclaiming an affinity for reason does not alone define a university's worth, as the statement alone does not constitute true commitment to scholastic pursuits in the name of a greater truth. He contends that \"the mere announcement of the rule of reason does not create the conditions for the full exercise of rationality\". Universities serve as a reflection of the public and democracy at large. Because of this, they are slave to public opinion (per Alexis de Tocqueville). The public opinion—which serves as the final gatekeeper and the final headsmen for any movements the university may actually try to implement to advance the pursuit of critical thinking.\n\nBloom also explains what he believes is the dichotomy between the \"spirit of the university\" and the university itself. \"The philosophic life is not the university.\" He alludes to early philosophers, who, up until the nineteenth century, including Socrates, who he firmly believes is \"of the essence of the university\", never once made use of such institutions at all. Bloom posits that maybe, after all, free thought and commitment to a greater truth need not exist within the metaphorical four walls of a university. What matters instead, he says, what is \"uniquely human\", is the \"philosophic experience\".\n\nBloom also notices a trend in which students notice the devaluing of free thought in universities. He writes about students at Cornell University, that \"these students discerned that their teachers did not really believe that freedom of thought was necessarily a good and useful thing, that they suspected that all this was ideology protecting the injustices of our 'system'\". Bloom asserts that American professors in the sixties \"were not aware of what they no longer believed\" and that this notion gravely endangered any capacity for progress towards free thought. Bloom insists that requiring from universities empty values like \"greater openness\", \"less rigidity\", and \"freedom from authority\" are only fashionable and do not have any substantive content. And in the face of growing civil rights conflicts, universities have a duty to instead actively pursue the task of \"opening American minds\". It is not enough, Bloom contends, for universities to \"not want trouble\". It is not enough for universities to only hold reputation paramount in the face of campus disruption, and only in name espouse free thought and truth. This \"unfortunate mixture of cowardice and moralism\" will unseat the spirit of the university. Bloom concludes by reminding readers that the love of wisdom and truth must be kept alive in universities, particularly in this moment of world history.\n\n\"The Closing of the American Mind\" was published in March 1987, five years after Bloom published an essay in the \"National Review\" about the failure of universities to serve the needs of students. With the encouragement of Saul Bellow, his colleague at the University of Chicago, he expanded his thoughts into a book \"about a life, I've led\" that critically reflected on the current state of higher education in American universities. His friends and admirers imagined the work would be a modest success, as did Bloom, who recognized his publisher's modest advance to complete the project as a lack of sales confidence. Yet on the momentum of strong initial reviews, including one by Christopher Lehmann-Haupt in \"The New York Times\" and an op-ed piece by syndicated conservative commentator George Will entitled \"A How-To Book for the Independent\" it became an unexpected best seller, eventually selling close to half a million copies in hardback and remaining at number one on \"The New York Times\" Non-fiction Best Seller list for four months.\n\n\"The Closing of the American Mind\" was met with mixed reviews from scholars and the general public alike.\n\nThe art critic Roger Kimball, writing in \"The New York Times\", called \"The Closing of the American Mind\" \"an unparalleled reflection on the whole question of what it means to be a student in today's intellectual and moral climate.\" Kimball argues that Bloom's work should not be diminished publicly simply because it is not optimistic. Instead, he writes, \"'The Closing of the American Mind' is essential reading for anyone concerned with the state of liberal education in this society. Its pathos, erudition and penetrating insight make it an unparalleled reflection on the whole question of what it means to be a student in today's intellectual and moral climate.\" He concludes that,\nMatt Feeney from \"The New Yorker\" also wrote in his article, \"Allan Bloom's Guide to College\", in 2012, that while Bloom's core arguments may have been diluted into trite conservative barbs directed at liberal educations, the essence of his argument remains true today, and his motives do too. He explains that by writing \"The Closing of the American Mind,\" \"Bloom dangles the promise of an arousing and dangerous philosophical quest, which will take the student far from his (and his friends' and parents' and other professors') settled opinions about what is good and decent.\" As for Bloom's impact on this era of politics, Feeney suggests a reframe in the way consumers perceive Bloom's work. Feeney writes,\nThe neoconservative writer Norman Podhoretz embraced Bloom's argument, noting that the closed-mindedness in his title refers to the paradoxical consequence of the academic \"open mind\" found in liberal political thought—namely \"the narrow and intolerant dogmatism\" that dismisses any attempt, by Plato or the Hebrew Bible for example, to provide a rational basis for moral judgments. Podhoretz continued, \"Bloom goes on to charge liberalism with vulgarizing the noble ideals of freedom and equality, and he offers brilliantly acerbic descriptions of the sexual revolution and the feminist movement, which he sees as products of this process of vulgarization.\" Bloom's work was also supported by a larger conservative movement. In 2005, Jim Sleeper wrote for \"The New York Times\" that \"nothing prepared [conservatives'] movement, or the academic and publishing worlds, for the wildfire success of [the book]. ... Conservatives championed Bloom then, of course, and they invoke him still.\"\n\nIn a 1989 article, Ann Clark Fehn discussed the critical reception of the book, noting that it had eclipsed other titles that year dealing with higher education (\"College\" by Ernest L. Boyer and \"Cultural Literacy\" by E. D. Hirsch), and quoting \"Publishers Weekly\", which had described Bloom's book as a \"bestseller made by reviews\". The poet Frederick Turner described \"The Closing of the American Mind\" as, \"The most thoughtful conservative analysis of the nation's cultural sickness.\"\n\nThe critic Camille Paglia called \"The Closing of the American Mind\" \"the first shot in the culture wars\", writing of Bloom that she was \"confident that in the long run he will be vindicated and his critics swallowed in obscurity\".\n\nIn her review, Martha Nussbaum questioned whether Bloom deserved to be considered a philosopher. The criticism of the book was continued by impassioned reviews by Benjamin Barber in \"Harper's\"; by the Nietzschean scholar Alexander Nehamas in the \"London Review of Books\"; and by David Rieff in \"The Times Literary Supplement\". David Rieff called Bloom \"an academic version of Lieut. Col. Oliver L. North: vengeful, reactionary, antidemocratic.\" The book, he said, was one that \"decent people would be ashamed of having written.\" The tone of these reviews led James Atlas in \"The New York Times Magazine\" to conclude \"the responses to Bloom's book have been charged with a hostility that transcends the usual mean-spiritedness of reviewers.\"\n\nWilliam Greider wrote for \"Rolling Stone\" that there were two main reasons for the roaring commercial success of Bloom's work. The first, he says, is purely due to the \"impassioned quality of Bloom's prose. The professor's rhetoric is laced with high-blown discourses on his great-books heroes and his enemies list ... The average reader is undoubtedly flattered by Bloom's intellectual name-dropping; it's always fun to be high-minded about someone else's ignorance.\" The second reason Greider credits Bloom's success to is simply timing. He writes that \"the book's appearance coincides with a surge of national concern about the disappearance of traditional education. Another current best seller, \"Cultural Literacy\", by E.D. Hirsch Jr., also taps the same anxieties.\" Ultimately, Greider concludes that Bloom's agenda is simply vicious attack on the values of young America. He writes,\n\nFor Greider, it is unfathomable how Bloom could devile the decline in prejudice and relegate that decline to a lack of imagination. He concludes, \"Bloom apparently detests the young.\"\n\nThe linguist and philosopher Noam Chomsky dismissed Bloom's book as \"mind-bogglingly stupid\" for \"basically saying ... you just march the students through a canon of 'great thoughts' that are picked out for everybody\" when \"the effect of that is that students will end up knowing and understanding virtually nothing.\"\n\nThe jurist Richard Posner compared Bloom's book to Paglia's \"Sexual Personae\" (1990), finding both books to be examples of \"difficult academic works that mysteriously strike a chord with a broad public.\" Thus, since publication, \"The Closing of the American Mind\", fueled many impassioned debates about the state of culture in America. One prominent retaliation came from the American historian Lawrence W. Levine, whose book was titled \"The Opening of the American Mind\". According to \"The New York Times\" Edward Rothstein, Levine's work, published ten full years later, still found it relevant to \"praise what Bloom condemned and condemn what he praised.\" But where, initially, political conservatives espoused Bloom's theories and liberals disavowed it, things seemed to be changing. According to Rothstein, ten years later, in 1997, the lines between supporter and opponent were no longer so clear. He found that, \"many conservatives have no problem with diversity if it is accompanied by rigor; many liberals have no problem with rigor if it is accompanied by diversity. And the view that something is amiss in contemporary culture is becoming increasingly widespread.\" Ultimately, Rothstein concludes, Bloom's work has very little to do \"with current political demarcations.\"\n\nJerry Aaron Snyder of \"The New Republic\", however, argues that the culture wars, which Bloom's work clearly helped spark a conversation about, will consistently be relevant. While it may be argued that \"The Closing of the American Mind\" may not resign itself to a political party, this does not preclude it from the impact it had on the culture wars, and how those culture wars shape life today. Snyder argues that books like Bloom's have inspired further conversations and controversies alike, such as controversy surrounding how history is taught in high schools, or the effectiveness of affirmative action or identity politics. According to Snyder, the discussions spawned by the initial culture wars in the 1980s because of books like Bloom's, \"'the soul of America' is a bottomless well. For better or worse, it will never run dry.\"\n"}
{"id": "48718915", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48718915", "title": "The Journal of Blacks in Higher Education", "text": "The Journal of Blacks in Higher Education\n\nThe Journal of Blacks in Higher Education is a former academic journal, now an online magazine, for African Americans working in academia in the United States. \n\nThe journal was established as a quarterly in 1993 by Theodore Cross, a \"champion of civil rights\" and the journal's longtime editor-in-chief. The last print issue appeared in 2010. Issues published between 1993 and 2010 are available on JSTOR. However, the magazine still publishes articles on its website. It reports and comments on statistical information pertaining to black students and faculty in the United States. According to Rhonda Sharpe and William Darity (\"Schools Successful at Producing Black Male Graduates\"), it is \"a key resource for publicly consumable statistical reports about the status of blacks in higher education\".\n\nIts publisher is headquartered in Bartonsville, Pennsylvania.\n"}
{"id": "32183471", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32183471", "title": "The Sphere College Project", "text": "The Sphere College Project\n\nThe Sphere College Project is a project to create a high-quality, financially accessible educational institution for adults. It was founded in April 2009 in Phoenixville, Pennsylvania to provide education to adults who do not fit the prevailing model of higher education. The Sphere College Project is not currently a degree-granting institution.\n\nThe educational philosophy of The Sphere College Project is influenced by other experimental institutions, including Black Mountain College and Hampshire College, and incorporates elements of self-organization. The underlying principle behind the organizational structure of the institution is that no one individual is capable of having sufficient knowledge of the system to completely design it beforehand. The institution reacts to its needs in real-time and must provide sufficient infrastructure to ensure progress toward the common goal, embodied in the mission statement. Since students process information in different ways, the institution must adjust to support their individual learning styles. The philosophy is based on the following disciplines, including the sciences (human/computer interaction; digital communication networks; digital gaming); the arts; and the humanities.\n\nThe program of study proposed by The Sphere College Project proceeds in three phases:\n\n\nMovement through the phases will proceed according to the schedule of the student. The Sphere College Project is not currently a degree-granting institution. It may, in the future, award degrees and seek accreditation.\n\n"}
{"id": "1996521", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996521", "title": "USA Today (magazine)", "text": "USA Today (magazine)\n\nUSA Today magazine is a monthly periodical published since 1978 by the Society for the Advancement of Education. It is unrelated to the \"USA Today\" newspaper. The magazine is based in West Babylon, New York. Among the topics covered by the magazine are politics, ecology, education, business, media, literature, science, and religion.\n\n"}
{"id": "2677500", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2677500", "title": "Vortex ring toy", "text": "Vortex ring toy\n\nA vortex ring toy is any of several toys that generate vortex rings – rolling torus-shapes of fluid, similar in structure to smoke rings – that move through the fluid (most often air, and sometimes water).\n\nBecause of the way they rotate, a vortex ring can hold itself together and travel for quite a distance. Toys that blow air vortices, like the air vortex cannon, are mainly used to tickle people or animals at a distance with an \"invisible hand\". An interesting demonstration is to have a smoker blow a smoke cloud into the toy just before firing, to create a large smoke ring. Some toys have a built-in smoke generator for this purpose.\n\n"}
