{"id": "6229129", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6229129", "title": "Abilio Diniz", "text": "Abilio Diniz\n\nAbilio dos Santos Diniz (born December 28, 1936) a Brazilian businessman. He is the chairman of the board of directors of Península Participações, chairman of the board of directors of BRF and member of the board of directors of both Carrefour Group and Carrefour Brasil. Through GPA, Diniz became one of the wealthiest individuals in Brazil. In 2016, \"Forbes\" ranked him 477th richest person in the world and 14th in Brazil.\n\nIn 2009, Época magazine named him one of the 100 most influential Brazilians of the year. He previously served as a partner of Companhia Brasileira de Distribuição, a distribution company which owns the brands Varejo Alimentar, Pão de Açúcar and Extra, wholesaler Assaí, and appliance company Ponto Frio (Globex). He was also a shareholder of Casas Bahia, through Globex S/A.\n\nDiniz is the first of the six children born to Floripes Pires and Valentim Diniz. His father, Valentim, was born in 1913 in the countryside of Portugal, and immigrated to Brazil in November 1929.\n\nDiniz studied at Anglo-Latino school and Mackenzie high school. He graduated in 1956 from the School of Business Administration of Fundação Getúlio Vargas. In 1965, Diniz traveled to the United States to study Marketing at Ohio University and Economics at Columbia University, in New York.\n\nDiniz's father, Valentim Diniz, founded the company Pão de Açúcar in September 1948. Abilio Diniz began to work for his at Doceria Pão de Açúcar at the age of 12. In April 1959, the same year he graduated from FGV in Business Administration, he partnered with his father to create the first Pão de Açúcar supermarket store, located on Brigadeiro Luiz Antônio Avenue, in São Paulo. In 1960, after the first store was established, Diniz traveled for four months throughout Europe and the United States to observe the operation of the retail sector abroad. The second Pão de Açúcar location on Maria Antonia Street, downtown São Paulo, was established in 1963. One year later, Pão de Açúcar acquired Quiko and Tip Top supermarkets. During the 60's and 70's, Grupo Pão de Açúcar was the first supermarket chain to set up a store in a shopping mall (Iguatemi, in São Paulo), to have a 24-hour pharmacy, and to set up a data processing center.\n\nDiniz studied the operations of Paris-based Carrefour in 1967 after Luiz Carlos Bresser-Pereira, who worked at Pão de Açúcar, introduced him to Carrefour cofounder Marcel Fournier. Diniz was a co-founder of the Brazilian Association of Supermarkets in 1968. Inspired by the Carrefour hypermarket model, Diniz founded Jumbo, the first hypermarket in Brazil, in Santo André in 1971. In 1976 he acquired Eletroradiobraz, the second largest chain of supermarkets and hypermarkets in Brazil at the time. The company consisted of eight supermarkets, 26 hypermarkets, 16 stores and a warehouse.\n\nIn 1979, Diniz moved away from Pão de Açúcar and became part of the National Monetary Council at the urging of the Minister of Planning, Mario Henrique Simonsen. There, he coordinated the production of economic bulletins.\n\nIn 1989, Valentim asked Diniz to take over the leadership of Pão de Açúcar. Valentim remained part of the group's board of directors. In March 1990 the Collor government implemented an economic plan which put Pão de Açúcar on the verge of bankruptcy. Diniz implemented the practice \"cut, concentrate and simplify\" and made cuts across the company. He sold the building which had served as the company's headquarters since 1986 in 1992. The company, which had 626 stores in 1985, was reduced to 262 stores by 1992. However, family conflicts threatened the company. In an agreement signed in November 1993, Diniz was given the majority control of Grupo Pão de Açúcar. His parents received 36.5% of the company shares and his sister, Lucília, held 12% of the company shares. Diniz led Grupo Pão de Açúcar through an IPO in 1997 and it was listed on the New York Stock Exchange. It was the first 100% national controlled company to conduct a global stock issue (in Brazil, the United States and Europe). In 1999, the French group Casino acquired 24.5% of the voting capital of the group for $854 500 million. In 2000, Diniz transitioned the company into Companhia Brasileira de Distribuição, which became one of the largest retail chains in the country.\n\nIn 2005, Diniz sold a large stake to the French company Casino Group for an estimated $860 million and stepped down as CEO, but remained as chairman. In 2009, in one of the most expensive transactions of the Brazilian business history, Grupo Pão de Açúcar bought Casas Bahia from Samuel Klein, giving Abilio control of Pão de Açúcar, Casas Bahia, Ponto Frio and Extra Hipermercados. In 2012, Casino Group took control of Grupo Pão de Açúcar and Diniz no longer had operational functions within the group but remained as chairman.\n\nIn 2003, Diniz became a member of the Economic and Social Development Council, a group of civil representatives which advise the President of the Republic of Brazil.\n\nIn 2006, Diniz founded Península Participações, an investment company created to manage the assets of the Diniz family through private and liquid investments. He later became the chairman of the company's board of directors.\n\nIn April 2013, Diniz was elected as chairman of BRF, He helped lead the company through a broad restructuring. The company's profit went from R$700 million in 2012 to R$2.2 billion in 2014. The company's market value went from R$37 billion to R$55 billion.\n\nIn September 2013, Diniz signed an agreement with his partner Jean-Charles Naouri to leave Grupo Pão de Açúcar. His shares were converted into voting privileges and he resigned from his position as chairman and the position was filled by Naouri.\n\nHe changed his focus to Península Participações, which managed more than 10 billion reais in assets by 2014. In April 2015, Diniz announced he was wrapping up talks to raise his 5.07 percent stake in Carrefour and that he had shareholder support to take a seat on the board of the supermarket. Through Península Participações, Diniz acquired 10% of the shares of Carrefour Brazil. Península Participações continued to acquire shares of Carrefour, and by March 2016, it was the third largest global shareholder of the Carrefour chain. In 2017, it had 11.46% of the shares of Carrefour Brasil and 7.7% of Carrefour. Diniz serves on the group's board of directors.\n\nIn 2004, Diniz released the book \"Caminhos e Escolhas – O caminho para uma vida mais feliz\" (Paths and Choices – Smart Choices for a Successful Life), which discusses major moments in his life and the transformations he went through as a result.\n\nIn 2015, journalist Cristiane Correa wrote the book \"Abilio – Determinado, Ambicioso, Polêmico\" (Determined, Ambitious, and Controversial), released by publisher Sextante, which details his life from childhood to becoming one of the biggest businessmen of Brazil. The book discussed Diniz's departure from Grupo Pão de Açúcar and his career after the departure.\n\nIn October 2016, Diniz launched his second book, \"Novos Caminhos, Novas Escolhas\" (New Paths, New Choices), released by publisher Objetiva (Companhia das Letras Group), which discussed the transitions in his life over the previous 12 years. In March 2017 the French version of the book was released, and later an English version was sold in the American market.\n\nIn August 2011, Diniz was notified by the Federal Public Ministry of Brazil to give explanations in a criminal investigation. Diniz's next move was to then call criminal lawyer Marcio Thomaz Bastos, one of the most well-known criminal lawyers for those who had wealth. At this time, Diniz was president of the board of directors for Pão de Açúcar. During the 2010 elections, the offices of Bastos had helped Diniz pay 5.5 million reais, to congressman Antonio Palocci to help fund the presidential campaign of Dilma Rousseff.\n\nAfter the discovery of contracts, drafts, notes, emails and other internal documents by TIME story, which all aimed to justify the payments to Palocci, the company GPA decided to establish an audit team to investigate the money given to Palocci in attempt to set things right. Two months after this, the audit team found no evidence that states Palocci aided the group whatsoever, giving the notion of corruption in this particular case.\n\nIn December 1989, Diniz was the victim of a sensational political kidnapping, followed by a police rescue. He was confined for six days in a small space under a house, with a duct leading to the kitchen fan as his only source of oxygen.\n\nThe kidnapping took place in the morning of the Brazilian presidential elections in Brazil in 1989.\n\nAmong the kidnappers were Canadians David Spencer and Christine Lamont, who were students at Simon Fraser University in British Columbia.\n\nLamont and Spencer denied any participation in the kidnapping but their participation was proved when a secret weapons cache in Managua exploded (among the material exposed by the explosion were documents that linked both Lamont and Spencer to the Diniz kidnapping). Faced with these revelations, Lamont admitted that they had been involved in the kidnapping.\n\nLamont and Spencer were sentenced to 28 years in prison for their involvement, but were kept in private cells, away from the mass of the prison population. The Canadian press and public started a major movement to secure their release, straining relations between Brazil and Canada. However, two Canadian investigative journalists, Isabel Vincent of \"The Globe and Mail\" and Caroline Mallan of the \"Toronto Star\", wrote books concluding that Lamont and Spencer were likely guilty, and they were being treated well by Brazilian authorities. Lamont confessed to involvement in the kidnapping, which was meant to raise money for Sandinista guerrillas, and the two were released and deported to Canada in 1996.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44121428", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44121428", "title": "Alejandro Vandenbroele", "text": "Alejandro Vandenbroele\n\nAlejandro Paul Vandenbroele is an Argentinian-Belgian lawyer and businessman who is a leading figure in the Argentinian financial scandal known both as Boudougate and as “Caso Ciccone,” which erupted in February 2012. As president of a Dutch-based firm called The Old Fund, he has been accused of being a front man for Argentinian Vice President Amado Boudou and for Boudou's business partner Núñez Carmona in a purported scheme involving the purchase and control of the printing house Ciccone Calcografica, later known as Compañía de Valores Sudamericana (American Securities Company), or CVS, which printed banknotes and documents for the government of Argentina.\n\nThe public comments and testimony of Vandenbroele's wife, Laura Muñoz, played a major role in exposing the Boudougate scandal and in incriminating Vandenbroele and other principals. In addition to being tried in Argentina, Vandenbroele was also wanted in Uruguay on charges of money laundering.\n\nVandenbroele first appeared in business records in March 2008 as a shareholder in Madrid-based Agroibérica de Inversiones SA, a firm purportedly involved in the “production, distribution, import and export of food and drinks.”\n\nIn 2009, he became a shareholder in Buenos Aires-based Ruta Sur Rentals SA, which rents out motorhomes, RVs, and other vehicles and has German and Dutch owners.\n\nIn July 2010, the Argentinian tax agency, the Administración Federal de Ingresos Públicos (AFIP), called on Calcográfica Ciccone to declare bankruptcy. Calcográfica Ciccone was one of Argentina's most important printers, “often working for the state on such sensitive issues as the printing of banknotes, identity documents, and passports,” and owed the national treasury 239 million pesos.\n\nTwo months later, with backing from Amado Boudou, who at the time was Economy Minister, the AFIP reversed itself and allowed Ciccone to refinance its debt. A Netherlands-based corporation named The Old Fund, described by \"Clarin\" as a “mysterious company,” whose only public face was Vandenbroele, thereupon invested 2.3 million pesos in Ciccone, and Vandenbroele assumed the presidency of what became known as the “new” Ciccone, the name of which was eventually changed to Compañía de Valores Sudamericana (American Securities Company), or CVS. The Old Fund owned 70% of the “new” Ciccone, of which it officially took control on October 29, 2010, two days after the death of Néstor Kirchner. One of the founders of the company, Nicholas Ciccone, and the two daughters of his deceased brother, Hector, owned 30%.\n\nA 2014 report indicated that The Old Fund was incorporated in 2008 by two Argentinians, Eduardo Alberto Razzetti and Carlos Fabian Dorado and that Vandenbroele took control of the firm as a shareholder in or shortly prior to September 2010. In that same month, according to the same 2014 report, a firm called London Supply contributed $1.8 million to The Old Fund, one of whose shareholders at the time was Michelangelo Castilian, a longtime friend of Boudou and Núñez Carmona. Vandenbroele officially became president of CVS on October 21, 2010, with Jose María Capirone, a former partner of Núñez Carmona and Boudou, serving as his second-in-command, and assumed the presidency of the Old Fund on November 17, 2010. In that same month, Vandenbroele became deputy director, owner, and president of The Old Fund, another shareholder in which was Sergio Gustavo Martinez, a fugitive from justice in the United States. At around the same time, The Old Fund was paid $7.8 million for alleged technical consultation for the government of Taiwan in regard to an exchange of public debt with Argentina, a matter in which Boudou was a central player. This report stated that The Old Fund spent 567,000 pesos to reverse the bankruptcy of Calcográfica Ciccone and that Núñez Carmona, according to Vandenbroele's wife, had represented The Old Fund in discussions with the creditors of Ciccone, whom he had persuaded to allow The Old Fund to take over that firm.\n\nIt was noted by several news media that in 2010, immediately prior to his involvement in The Old Fund and Calcográfica Ciccone, Vandenbroele was listed in Argentinian tax rolls as a self-employed person or small-business proprietor in the very lowest tax bracket.\n\nThese dealings began to erupt into a public scandal in February 2012. On February 24, prosecutor Carlos Rivolo traveled to Mendoza where he interviewed Vandenbroele's wife, Laura Muñoz, about her husband's connections to Boudou and Boudou's business partner José María Núñez Carmona. She told Rivolo that her husband was a front man for Boudou and provided Rivolo with documents and an audio tape of conversations between her and Vandenbroele. Muñoz said that her husband and Núñez Carmona ran a “ghost consultancy” in Puerto Madero that handled “money bribes” and that was a front for Boudou. Muñoz also told Rivolo that she had argued with her husband about the illegality of these activities and about his insistence that they move from Buenos Aires to Mendoza because of these activities. The audiotapes contained evidence of these arguments. Muñoz, who had been married to Vandenbroele since 2006, said that she had begun to suspect him of cheating, and while looking through his papers for evidence of an affair, she discovered documents outlining his relationship to Boudou and Núñez Carmona.\n\nVandenbroele reportedly had known Boudou since their youth in Mar del Plata, where Boudou, in his teens, had dated Vandenbroele's cousin Guadalupe Escaray. As of 2012, Escaray was working under Boudou as regional chef of ANSES, the Argentinian social-security administration. When confronted with Muñoz's claims about her husband's business connections to Boudou, Boudou stated they were “all lies.” On April 4, 2012, the Justice Department raided an apartment owned by Boudou in Puerto Madero, and found evidence that the home expenses, including rent and cable bills, were paid by Vandenbroele, indicating that he was residing there. The raid, which was ordered by federal judge Daniel Rafecas at the request of Rívolo, established a firm link between Boudou and Vandenbroele.\n\nOn April 22, it was reported that Vandenbroele was under investigation for money laundering in Spain. On May 12, it was reported that phone service at the Puerto Madero apartment was in Vandenbroele's name. On May 13, \"La Nación\" confirmed that Vandenbroele was living in the apartment. Boudou, however, denied knowing him. On May 14, Federal prosecutor Jorge Di Lello called for Boudou, José María Núñez Carmona, Vandenbroele, and Boudou's domestic partner, Agustina Kämpfer, to be investigated for embezzlement, in addition to 10 companies, including The Old Fund.\n\nA June 3, 2012, report in \"La Nación\" outlined details of a Ciccone Calcográfica contract to print money for the national mint, and suggested that money laundering was involved. A June 14 article in the same newspaper noted that Alejandro Vandenbroele was “the only face” of The Old Fund and that the origin of its assets was a mystery. On June 25, La Nación reported that the price charged by Calcográfica Ciccone to print money was higher than prices offered by other companies. On June 26, it was reported that a Uruguayan court had begun investigating CVS, and that The Old Fund owned a firm called Dusbel SA, which had been founded by Uruguayan accountant Fernando Castagno Schickendantz, who had then sold it to an Argentinian firm before its acquisition by The Old Fund. On July 4 came a report that Ariel Lijo, the judge who was investigating the Ciccone Case, had asked the government agency Unidad de Información Financiera (UIF) for a document from Spain containing information about Vandenbroele's financial actions.\n\nOn August 21, \"La Nación\" reported on a “key document” signed on the previous June 13 by Boudou, Vandenbroele, and the apparent “controlling shareholder” of The Old Fund, Guillermo Reinwick, whereby Vandenbroele agreed to act on Reinwick's behalf “to try to salvage the former Ciccone” and thereby protect the firm from government investigation. According to \"La Nación\", Reinwick had signed this agreement under pressure, and had also taken responsibility for the two companies that the newspaper described as being “behind The Old Fund: the Dutch fund Tierras International Investments CV, later replaced by a US firm called LLC, and the Uruguayan firm Dusbel SA.”\n\nThe operation of CVS was taken over by the government in August 2012, and was placed under the direct control of the Minister of Economy, Hernán Lorenzino, and the head of the Mint, Katya Daura, both of whom reported to Boudou.\n\nIn November 2012, Vandenbroele filed a document before the Criminal Court in which he claimed that Raul Moneta, a banker connected with the Kirchner administration, had financed the entire Ciccone operation. In response, Moneta “opted for public silence.”\n\n\"Diario Velez\" reported on January 6, 2013, that officials were tracing the origins of Vandenbroele's money, and that “all roads lead to the tax havens of Panama and the Isles [sic] of Man.”\n\nAppearing in Commercial Court in April 2013, Vandenbroele accused the government of wanting to destroy the Ciccone printing firm and to take it over unconstitutionally. Vandenbroele complained that the government intervention in the printing business had caused “a severe decline” in its income.\n\nAs of June 1, 2013, Vandenbroele was living in a private neighborhood, Vistalba, and was not paying alimony to Muñoz. In an October 2013 interview, Muñoz described Boudou as “an immoral man and a liar.” According to her, Vandenbroele had always “derided Boudou,” never spoken of him with respect, and invariably viewed him as a man who obtained things illicitly. It was reported on October 20, 2013, that a case against “Boudou and others” for illegal enrichment was on the desk of Judge Lijo, and that the “others” included Núñez Carmona, Kampfer, and Vandenbroele, as well as Juan Carlos López, Sandra Viviana Rizzo, Fabián Hugo Carosso, Hugo Nicolás Carosso, and Pable Pellet Lastra.\n\nThe Court of Cassation ruled on November 1, 2013, that Vandenbroele's alleged role as a front man for Boudou should be investigated, and gave particular weight to Muñoz's testimony. Muñoz told \"Clarin\" she was happy with the ruling, especially given that the Kirchner administration and Boudou in particular had tried to discredit her, calling her “insane” and a “compulsive liar”. Muñoz said that she had been offered money to retract her statement that her ex-husband was a front man for Boudou, and that she was now celebrating the fact that “justice was done with my truths.” She also said that Vandenbroele had threatened to kill her “like a dog” so that she would end up “dead in a ditch,” or to commit her to a mental hospital so that “no one will believe you.”\n\nIt was reported on November 2, 2013, that the bank accounts of Dusbel, Vandenbroele's company in Uruguay, had been frozen by Uruguayan Judge Néstor Valetti at the request of prosecutor Juan Gomez.\n\nIn mid November, Vandenbroele was banned from leaving the country before May 5, 2014.\n\nIn early February 2014, Laura Muñoz told \"Radio Mitre\" that she did not regret having stated two years earlier that Vandenbroele was Boudou's front man. She also maintained that he had traveled to Chile at a time when he was banned from leaving the country. In addition, she accused him of “kidnapping” their daughter and said it was “crazy” that a judge could consider him to be “a responsible parent.” She said that he was surrounded by admirers, stating that “even my mother and many parents of classmates of my daughter, to those who really like this Government, have become fans of Vandenbroele.” She called Vandenbroele “a violent man” and claimed he had beaten his mother.\n\nBoudou reiterated on February 26, 2014, that he did not know or have any contact with Vandenbroele. “I don't know him, I didn't show him anything, I never met him,” he said. He asserted that Vandenbroele was living in his apartment because their mutual acquaintance Fabián Carosso Donatiello had transferred it to him.\n\nIn late May 2014, Lijo issued summonses in the Ciccone Case, ordering Boudou, Vandenbroele, and others to testify in July, addressing charges that they had engaged in irregularities not only while Boudou was Minister of Economy, but also during his term as Vice President. Also called to testify were Núñez Carmona, former AFIP official Rafael Resnick Brenner, Nicholas Ciccone, and Guillermo Reinwick. Muñoz said on May 30 that she felt “relief” upon learning that Judge Ariel Lijo had summoned Boudou and Vandenbroele for questioning, because this indicated to her that “they are looking for the truth.” On June 11, Vandenbroele filed a brief with Lijo asking him to delay the trial. Lijo refused.\n\nOn June 26, 2014, \"La Nación\" reported that Vandenbroele had traveled to Brazil in 2011 with Guido Forcieri and Núñez Carmona. On June 27, the trial of Boudou, Núñez Carmona, Vandenbroele, and Resnick Brenner before Judge Lijo got underway, and all the defendants asked Lijo to delay the trial, a request he rejected. Lijo also prohibited all the defendants, except for Boudou, from leaving the country. In addition, he ruled that it had been established as a fact that Boudou and Núñez Carmona had bought Ciccone through The Old Fund with the objective of profiting from government printing contracts that Boudou would be able to arrange because of his official position. Muñoz said she felt relief upon hearing Lijo's ruling and that “for two and a half years I've been maintaining a truth that nobody believed...They did everything to make me look crazy. Finally the court agreed with me.”\n\n\"La Nación\" reported on June 29, 2014, that Federal Judge Ariel Lijo had concluded that Boudou and Vandenbroele knew each other, despite Boudou's frequent and unequivocal claims to the contrary, and that they had a “strong link” and “mutual interests.” Lijo cited a substantial list of established facts demonstrating their relationship. Lijo concluded that “the links between Amado Boudou and Alejandro Vandenbroele are strong and numerous.”\n\"La Nación\" reported on July 7, 2014, that Vandenbroele had appeared in Commercial Court No. 8 on September 3, 2010, in an effort to help reverse the bankruptcy of Ciccone. After the Ciccone scandal broke, however, the court verified that Vandenbroele had misrepresented information before the Commercial Court in 2010.\n\nLijo stated on July 11, 2014, that Vandenbroele had indeed been a front man for Boudou and Núñez Carmona, and tried them all on charges of bribery and irregular negotiations. He noted that Núñez Carmona and Boudou had both become millionaires as a result of their joint activities, while Vandenbroele lost money. As of 2011, Vandenbroele had a negative net worth of $235,324.\n\nOn June 11, 2014, he appeared in court, where his indictment was read and he was shown the evidence against him. Vandenbroele told the judge he wanted to answer questions later and expand his statement, and left a letter outlining the main points of his defense.\n\nThe court ruled in late June 2014 that Boudou and Núñez Carmona had acquired Ciccone Calcográfica while Boudou was Minister of Economy via The Old Fund and Vandenbroele, “with the ultimate goal of contracting with the Federal Government to print money and official documentation.” The court determined that Boudou, using his position as a public official, and Núñez Carmona had arranged with Nicholas and Hector Ciccone and Guillermo Reinwick for a transfer of 70% of Calcográfica Ciccone in exchange for actions arranged by Boudou that would enable the firm to resume operations and obtain government contracts.\n\n\"La Nación\" reported on October 2, 2014, that Vandenbroele was under investigation by Valetti, the Uruguayan judge, on suspicion of money-laundering and that Valetti planned to ask for Vandenbroele's extradition so that Vandenbroele could explain the origin of funds that were transferred from Montevideo to Buenos Aires and used to acquire Ciccone. The report in \"La Nación\" further stated that Vandenbroele, as head of the anonymous Uruguayan firm Dusbel, had invested US$2.4 million in The Old Fund.\n\nVandenbroele and Muñoz married in 2006. They have one child together, and she has two children from a previous marriage. In March 2010, he moved out of their home.\n"}
{"id": "27315841", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27315841", "title": "Alfred Renard", "text": "Alfred Renard\n\nAlfred Renard (21 April 1895 – 20 June 1988) was a Belgian aviation pioneer.\n\nAlfred Renard was born in Anderlecht on 21 April 1895. As a youngster and inspired by the kites he saw his father make, he installed electricity and a telephone system at an uncle's farm.\n\nIn 1912, his inspiration was kindled by a prize of 10.000 francs, offered by French car builder Peugeot to the first cyclist to make two aircraft flights of 10 meters each, relying solely on his or her own muscular power. Alfred conceived and, with help from his brother Georges, made his own device for the test: a bicycle augmented with a propeller and a fabric-covered wing, which unfolded by means of a lever when the device reached airspeed. The machine failed, however.\n\nDuring World War I the brothers worked in the family home at a pedal-powered lathe, producing pieces for a Brussels workshop; they also built engines. They ventured into building a five-meter-long blimp that they fill with compressed air.\n\nThe war forced Alfred Renard to suspend his studies at the Free University of Brussels and the Department of Applied Sciences, but in 1920 he earned an engineering degree in civil construction, plus a \"license\" in aeronautics.\n\nAfter study came the tour of soldier's duty - especially important in this small country that had suffered heavily under the war, and was taking part in the occupation of Western Germany. Renard served as a cartographer, designing military aerodromes. During this service he re-acquainted one of his former university teachers, Emile Allard, newly appointed chief of the military aviation technical service TSA, and creator of a Belgian Aeronautical Laboratory. After several visits to Gustave Eiffel in Paris, the two of them would build a wind tunnel at Sint-Genesius-Rode. They also designed an all-metal monoplane, built at Zeebrugge by company ZACCO (best known under the French acronym ACAZ) as the ACAZ T-2. It failed to meet commercial success.\n\nThrough the same Emile Allard, Renard got in touch with Jean Stampe and his cherished dream of operating his own flying school with his self-designed and self-built solid trainer aircraft. The venture was completed with Maurice Vertongen, its designs marked RSV for Renard-Stampe-Vertongen. The company statute left Renard free to keep his position as chief engineer at the Defense Ministry, meanwhile designing RSV-aircraft built and sold by Stampe et Vertongen\n\nIn 1925 Alfred Renard creates his own company as Société anonyme des avions et moteurs Renard in Brussels. The main activity was the design and production of aircraft engines of 100, 120 and 240 hp. Some of them served Belgian military aviation, some were sold in Poland and in the USA. Also, a Renard 240 hp engine powered the second version of Belgium's first helicopter, built by and named after Russian engineer Nicolas Florine.\nIn 1928, his brother Georges Renard joined the company which was then renamed Renard Constructions Aéronautiques. The brothers shifted away from engine design: their R-31 and R-36 were powered by engines from abroad.\n\nForeseeing the German invasion in 1940, Alfred Renard planned to move his assets to France, but not in time. During World War II he disappeared from public view, to re-emerge in 1945 as a technical advisor with the Belgian State Railways NMBS/SNCB, making a study of light alloy railcars. In 1947 he rejoins Jean Stampe, having always remained on good terms with him, to become a manager at a new company Stampe & Renard till that company's dissolution in January 1970. On top of producing the Stampe SV.4 trainer, he works at propeller engineering, at the development of the Stampe & Renard SR-7 and the Stampe & Renard SR-45 project.\n\nRun over by a motorcar, Alfred Renard died on 20 June 1988.\n"}
{"id": "30129675", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30129675", "title": "Angelo Motta", "text": "Angelo Motta\n\nAngelo Motta (8 September 1890 – 26 December 1957) was an Italian entrepreneur, founder of the food company Motta. He is associated with the commercial production of the sweet yeast bread panettone.\nMotta later served as a finance minister in the cabinets of Alcide De Gasperi during the 1950s.\n\nMotta was a Milanese pastry chef , before leaving for military service during The Great War. After the war, in 1919 he opened his first bakery starting production of panettone, sweet typical Milanese, first in the form of a handmade version and later expanding his production to make panettone at an industrial plant. Motta and his rival panettone maker Gioacchino Alemagna are credited with the industrialisation of panettone from its Milanese origins to a staple of the Italian Christmas. Production had expanded considerably by 1930 and a new large factory was required on the outskirts of town to replace the four small bakeries that Motta was using. In 1935 \"l’illustrazione italiana\" reported that the new factory had a conveyor belt measuring thirty metres and large industrial ovens to keep up with production.\n\nMotta’s edge in the production of panettone was to create a distinctive high dome shape to his bread that replaced the older style of flatter panettone as the standard. His startling success saw his company expand considerably during the inter war years with Motta foods introducing new breads including a celebratory Easter bread known as a Colomba di Pasqua, a dove shaped yeast bread that uses panettone yeast but contains less fruit. In many companies, panettone became the de rigueur holiday gift to give to staff. Top artists were commissioned by Motta to immortalize his bread in advertisements. Prices were slashed to attract yet more consumers. It is estimated that panettone is now sold in seventy five countries.\n\nAfter the war Motta's also manufactured ice cream including the famous brands \"Mottarello\" and \"Coppa del Nonno\" (Grandfather's cup). Motta's continued as an independent company until 1970 when it became state controlled.\nThe Motta and Alemagna brands are now owned by Bauli an Italian bakery company based in Verona having previously passed through the hands of Nestlé for a period in the late 1990s.\n\nHe died in December 1957.\n\nIn 1939 Angelo Motta was awarded Knight of the Equestrian Order of the Holy Sepulchre a prestigious catholic chivalric order.\n\nMotta was also a Grand Officer of the Order of Merit of the Italian Republic.\n\n"}
{"id": "18041768", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18041768", "title": "Article 4 of the European Convention on Human Rights", "text": "Article 4 of the European Convention on Human Rights\n\nArticle 4 of the European Convention on Human Rights prohibits slavery and forced labour. Conscription, national service, prison labour, service exacted in cases of emergency or calamity, and \"normal civic obligations\" are excepted from these definitions.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51639178", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51639178", "title": "Bob Bissonnette", "text": "Bob Bissonnette\n\nRoberto \"Bob\" Bissonnette (27 April 1981 – 3 September 2016) was a Canadian ice hockey player, as well as a singer known for his sports-themed songs and a co-owner of the Québec Capitales professional baseball team.\n\nBissonnette was born in Caracas, Venezuela in 1981. He was picked for the Quebec Major Junior Hockey League (QMJHL) in Hull Olympiques becoming team captain. In 2001-2002, he was transferred to Acadie–Bathurst Titan. From 2002 onwards he played in various hockey leagues. Teams he played for include Patriots of Université du Québec à Trois-Rivières, Florida Everblades, Caron and Guay of Pont-Rouge, Summum Chiefs of Saint-Jean-sur-Richelieu and others. He stopped playing competitively in 2010.\n\nIn 2010, Bissonnette launched a singing career releasing three albums, \"Recrue de l'année\" (2010), \"Les Barbes de séries\" (2012) and \"Rockstar\" (2014). He had a number of singles including \"Mettre du tape su' ma palette\" and \"Recrue de l'année\" (2010), \"Y sont toutes folles\", \"Hockey dans rue\" and \"Chris Chelios\" (2011), \"Les Barbes de séries\" and \"La machine à scorer\" (2012) and \"Rockstar\" (2014). He operated completely independently as a musician; he had no contract with any record company, nor did he receive any subsidies from the Canadian government.\n\nBissonnette was also a minority co-owner, of Québec Capitales. He performed musical numbers for five years during the regular season of Capitales.\n\nOn 4 September 2016, Bissonnette died in a helicopter accident in the Flatlands, near Campbellton, New Brunswick, Canada. The crash also resulted in the death of the pilot Frédérick Décoste. Michel Laplante, president of the Capitales, was injured in the incident.\n"}
{"id": "18289784", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18289784", "title": "Broadway Theater District (Los Angeles)", "text": "Broadway Theater District (Los Angeles)\n\nThe Broadway Theater District in Downtown Los Angeles is the first and largest historic theater district listed on the National Register of Historic Places. With twelve movie palaces located along a six-block stretch of Broadway, it is the only large concentration of movie palaces left in the United States.\n\nStretching for six blocks from Third to Ninth Streets along South Broadway in Downtown Los Angeles, the district includes 12 movie theaters built between 1910 and 1931. By 1931, the district had the highest concentration of cinemas in the world, with seating capacity for more than 15,000 patrons. Broadway was the hub of L.A.'s entertainment scene – a place where \"screen goddesses and guys in fedoras rubbed elbows with Army nurses and aircraft pioneers.\" In 2006, the \"Los Angeles Times\" wrote:\"There was a time, long ago, when the streets of downtown Los Angeles were awash in neon—thanks to a confluence of movie theaters the world had never seen before. Dozens of theaters screened Hollywood's latest fare, played host to star-studded premieres and were filled nightly with thousands of moviegoers. In those days, before World War II, downtown L.A. was the movie capital of the world.\"\n\nColumnist Jack Smith called it \"the only large concentration of vintage movie theaters left in America.\" Smith recalled growing up a mile from Broadway and spending his Saturdays in the theaters:\"I remember walking into those opulent interiors, surrounded by the glory of the Renaissance, or the age of Baroque, and spending two or three hours in the dream world of the movies. When I came out again the sky blazed; the heat bounced off the sidewalk, traffic sounds filled the street, I was back in the hard reality of the Depression.\n\nBecause Broadway has been used as a filming location for decades, many of these theatre marquees can be seen in classic Hollywood films, including \"Safety Last!\" (1923), \"D.O.A.\" (1950), \"The Omega Man\" (1971), \"Blade Runner\" (1982), and \"The Artist\" (2011).\n\nIn the years after World War II, the district began to decline, as first-run movie-goers shifted to the movie palaces in Hollywood, in Westwood Village, and later to suburban multiplexes. After World War II, as Anglo moviegoers moved to the suburbs, many of the Broadway movie palaces became venues for Spanish-language movies and variety shows. In 1988, the \"Los Angeles Times\" noted that, without the Hispanic community, \"Broadway would be dead.\" Jack Smith wrote that Broadway had been \"rescued and revitalized\" by \"the Latino renaissance.\"\n\nThe district has been the subject of preservation and restoration efforts since the 1980s. In 1987, the Los Angeles Conservancy started a program called \"Last Remaining Seats\" in which the old movie palaces were opened each summer to show classic Hollywood movies. In 1994, the Conservancy's associate director, Gregg Davidson, noted: \"When we started this, the naysayers said no one will go downtown to an old theater to see an old movie in the middle of the summer, but we get a number of people who have never seen a movie in a theater with a balcony. The older people (go) for nostalgia. And the movie people—seeing a classic film on a big screen is a different experience.\" After attending a Conservancy screening, one writer noted: \"The other night I went to the movies and was transported to a world of powdered wigs and hoop skirts, a rococo fantasy of gilded cherubs and crystal chandeliers. And then the film started.\"\n\nDespite preservation efforts, many of the theaters have been converted to other uses, including flea markets and churches. The Broadway movie palaces fell victim to a number of circumstances, including changing demographics and tastes, a downtown location that was perceived as dangerous at night, and high maintenance costs for aging facilities. With the closure of the State Theater in 1998, the Orpheum and the Palace were the only two still screening films.\n\nIn 2006, the \"Los Angeles Times\" wrote: \"Of all of L.A.'s many hidden gems, maybe none is as sparkling nor as hidden as the Broadway theater district downtown.\" Bemoaning the possible loss of such gems, the same writer noted: \"L.A. gave birth to the movies. To lose the astonishing nurseries where the medium grew up would be tragic.\"\n\nIn 2008, the City of Los Angeles launched a $40-million campaign to revitalize the Broadway district, known as the \"Bringing Back Broadway\" campaign. Some Latino merchants in the district expressed concern that the campaign was an effort to spread the largely Anglo gentrification taking hold in other parts of downtown to an area that has become the city's leading Latino shopping district. A worker at one of the district's bridal shops noted, \"On one side, I like the idea. The only thing is that I don't think they want our types of businesses.\"\n\nThe twelve theaters in the Broadway District from north to south are:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2093407", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093407", "title": "Business activity monitoring", "text": "Business activity monitoring\n\nBusiness activity monitoring (BAM) is software that aids in monitoring of business activities, key performance indicators, business / operational exceptions and business risks, as those activities are implemented in computer systems.\n\nThe term was originally coined by analysts at Gartner, Inc. and refers to the aggregation, analysis, and presentation of real-time information about activities inside organizations and involving customers and partners. A business activity can either be a business process that is orchestrated by business process management (BPM) software, or a business process that is a series of activities spanning multiple systems and applications. BAM is an enterprise solution primarily intended to provide a real-time summary of business activities to operations managers and upper management.\n\nThe goals of business activity monitoring is to provide real time information about the status and results of various operations, processes, and transactions. The main benefits of BAM are to enable an enterprise to make better informed business decisions, quickly address problem areas, and re-position organizations to take full advantage of emerging opportunities.\n\nOne of the most visible features of BAM solutions is the presentation of information on dashboards containing the key performance indicators (KPIs) used to provide assurance and visibility of activity and performance. This information is used by technical and business operations to provide visibility, measurement, and assurance of key business activities. It is also exploited by event correlation to detect and warn of impending problems.\n\nAlthough BAM systems usually use a computer dashboard display to present data, BAM is distinct from the dashboards used by business intelligence (BI) insofar as events are processed in real-time or near real-time and pushed to the dashboard in BAM systems, whereas BI dashboards refresh at predetermined intervals by polling or querying databases. Depending on the refresh interval selected, BAM and BI dashboards can be similar or vary considerably.\n\nSome BAM solutions additionally provide trouble notification functions, which allows them to interact automatically with the issue tracking system. For example, whole groups of people can be sent e-mails, voice or text messages, according to the nature of the problem. Automated problem solving, where feasible, can correct and restart failed processes.\n\nIn nearly all BAM deployments extensive tailoring to specific enterprises is required. Many BAM solutions seek to reduce extensive customization and may offer templates that are written to solve common problems in specific sectors, for example banking, manufacturing, and stockbroking. Due to the high degree of system integration required for initial deployment, many enterprises use experts that specialize in BAM to implement solutions.\n\nBAM is now considered a critical component of Operational Intelligence (OI) solutions to deliver visibility into business operations. Multiple sources of data can be combined from different organizational silos to provide a common operating picture that uses current information. Wherever real-time insight has the greatest value, OI solutions can be applied to deliver the needed information.\n\nAll BAM solutions process events. While most of the first BAM solutions were closely linked to BPM solutions and therefore processed events emitted as the process was being orchestrated, this had the disadvantage of requiring enterprises to invest in BPM before being able to acquire and use BAM. The newer generation of BAM solutions are based on complex event processing (CEP) technology, and can process high volumes of underlying technical events to derive higher level business events, therefore reducing the dependency on BPM, and providing BAM to a wider audience of customers.\n\nA bank might be interested in minimizing the amount of money it borrows overnight from a central bank. Interbank transfers must be communicated and arranged through automation by a set time each business day. The failure of any vital communication could cost the bank large sums in interest charged by the central bank. A BAM solution would be programmed to become aware of each message and await confirmation. Failure to receive confirmation within a reasonable amount of time would be grounds for the BAM solution to raise an alarm that would set in motion manual intervention to investigate the cause of the delay and to push the problem toward resolution before it becomes costly.\n\nAnother example involves a mobile telecommunications company interested in detecting a situation whereby new customers are not set up promptly and correctly on their network and within the various CRM and billing solutions. Low-level technical events such as messages passing from one application to another over a middleware system, or transactions detected within a database logfile, are processed by a CEP engine. All events relating to an individual customer are correlated in order to detect an anomalous situation whereby an individual customer has not been promptly or correctly provisioned, or set up. An alert can be generated to notify technical operations or to notify business operations, and the failed provisioning step may be restarted automatically.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38878996", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38878996", "title": "Choice of techniques", "text": "Choice of techniques\n\nThe choice of techniques is an area of economics in which the question of the appropriate capital or labour-intensity of the method of production of goods is discussed. In the context of traditional development economics it was often recognised (Stewart (1972) for example) that this choice was central to development strategies and that such choices were inter-twined with decisions over the type of goods to be produced and the scale of operation of an industry.\n\n"}
{"id": "2658254", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2658254", "title": "Creamery", "text": "Creamery\n\nIn a dairy, the creamery is the location of cream processing. Cream is separated from whole milk; pasteurization is done to the skimmed milk and cream separately. Whole milk for sale has had some cream returned to the skimmed milk.\n\nThe creamery is the source of butter from a dairy. Cream is an emulsion of fat-in-water; the process of churning causes a phase inversion to butter which is an emulsion of water-in-fat. Excess liquid as buttermilk is drained off in the process. Modern creameries are automatically controlled industries, but the traditional creamery needed skilled workers. Traditional tools included the butter churn and Scotch hands.\n\nThe term \"creamery\" is sometimes used in retail trade as a place to buy milk products such as yogurt and ice cream. Under the banner of a creamery one might find a store also stocking pies and cakes or even a coffeehouse with confectionery.\n\n"}
{"id": "58429494", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58429494", "title": "Cyan Banister", "text": "Cyan Banister\n\nCyan Banister (born 1977) is an American angel investor and entrepreneur. An early investor in Uber, Niantic, Postmates, DeepMind, Affirm, and SpaceX, she co-founded Zivity, an adult-themed social networking site. Banister is also the first woman investing partner at the venture capital Founders Fund, where she leads seed and early-stage investments such as HQ Trivia and Naked Labs. \n\nBorn in 1977, Banister grew up in Arizona in a family of artists. At the age of 15 she experienced homelessness and dropped out of high school. Banister spoke publicly about her early life at 2018 TechCrunch Disrupt conference, from living on the streets to becoming a venture capitalist, crediting her success to incrementalism, capitalism, individualism, mentorship, and endless curiosity.\n\nBanister started her career in non-executive positions at NBCUniversal, working in systems administration and development support from 1999 – 2001. She has worked as a contributing writer at TechCrunch, and accepted her first executive position at the security startup IronPort in 2003.\n\nBanister is a self-taught engineer who held several management roles at IronPort, which sold to Cisco for $850 million in 2007. According to The Wall Street Journal, she \"found herself with money from the acquisition that she didn’t know what to do with. She considered putting it in the stock market or in land, but settled on startups. The first check she wrote as an angel investor was to SpaceX.\" Banister invested early in several companies worth more than a billion dollars like Uber, Affirm, Opendoor, and Postmates.\n\nIn late 2007, with her husband Scott Banister and Jeffrey Wescott, she co-founded Zivity, a photography platform company, and in 2010 added nude photos of herself to Zivity’s premium section. She served as editor-in-chief until March 2016, when she became the first woman partner at Founders Fund, a Silicon Valley venture capital fund. At Founders Fund Banister has invested in companies like Niantic and HQTrivia. She is also a co-founder of Thankroll and Signal Media Project.\n\nFounders Fund partner Brian Singerman wrote,\"Our team has known Cyan for years and we've been continually impressed by her ability to identify some of the most impactful technology companies in the world at the earliest stages.\" Polina Marinova of Fortune wrote, \"It’s difficult to describe Banister as she does not fit perfectly in any box...\" Marinova added that Shrug Capital founder Niv Dror said, \"She likes to invest in weird things, sees things super early and just gets it.\" \n\nCyan and Scott Banister won the Angel of the Year Crunchie award at the 2016 TechCrunch ceremonies. Jessi Hempel of Wired wrote that Banister is \"an accomplished angel investor who, along with her husband, won TechCrunch’s Angel of the Year award last spring for prescient bets on SpaceX, Uber, and DeepMind Technologies.\"\n\nIn 2015, Eugene Volokh announced that the UCLA First Amendment Amicus Brief Clinic would be re-named the \"Scott & Cyan Banister First Amendment Clinic\", \"in recognition of the Banisters' very generous gift in support of the clinic.\"\n\nShe lives with her husband Scott Banister in San Francisco. She identifies as a socially liberal libertarian, and came out in 2016 as genderqueer.\n"}
{"id": "586015", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=586015", "title": "Deloitte", "text": "Deloitte\n\nDeloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited , commonly referred to as Deloitte, is a multinational professional services network. Deloitte is one of the \"Big Four\" accounting organizations and the largest professional services network in the world by revenue and number of professionals.\n\nDeloitte provides audit, tax, consulting, enterprise risk and financial advisory services with more than 286,200 professionals globally. In FY 2018, the network earned a record $43.2 billion USD in aggregate revenues. , Deloitte is the 4th largest privately owned company in the United States.\n\nAs per reports in 2012, Deloitte had the largest number of clients amongst FTSE 250 companies in the UK and in 2015, Deloitte currently has the highest market share in auditing among the top 500 companies in India. Deloitte has been ranked number one by market share in consulting by Gartner, and for the fourth consecutive year, Kennedy Consulting Research and Advisory ranks Deloitte number one in both global consulting and management consulting based on aggregate revenue.\n\nIn 1845, William Welch Deloitte opened an office in London. Deloitte was the first person to be appointed an independent auditor of a public company, namely the Great Western Railway. He went on to open an office in New York in 1880.\n\nIn 1890, Deloitte opened a branch office on Wall Street headed by Edward Adams and P.D. Griffiths as branch managers. That was Deloitte's first overseas venture. Other branches were soon opened in Chicago and Buenos Aires. in 1898 P.D. Griffiths returned from New York and became a partner in the London office.\n\nIn 1896, Charles Waldo Haskins and Elijah Watt Sells formed Haskins & Sells in New York. It was later described as \"the first major auditing firm to be established in the country by American rather than British accountants\".\n\nIn 1898, George Touche established an office in London and then, in 1900, joined John Ballantine Niven in establishing the firm of Touche Niven in the Johnston Building at 30 Broad Street in New York.\n\nOn 1 March 1933, Colonel Arthur Hazelton Carter, President of the New York State Society of Certified Public Accountants and managing partner of Haskins & Sells, testified before the U.S. Senate Committee on Banking and Currency. Carter helped convince Congress that independent audits should be mandatory for public companies.\nIn 1947, Detroit accountant George Bailey, then president of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, launched his own organization. The new entity enjoyed such a positive start that in less than a year, the partners merged with Touche Niven and A. R. Smart to form Touche, Niven, Bailey & Smart. Headed by Bailey, the organization grew rapidly, in part by creating a dedicated management consulting function. It also forged closer links with organizations established by the co-founder of Touche Niven, George Touche: the Canadian organization Ross and the British organization George A. Touche. In 1960, the firm was renamed Touche, Ross, Bailey & Smart, becoming Touche Ross in 1969. In 1968 Nobuzo Tohmatsu formed Tohmatsu Aoki & Co, a firm based in Japan that was to become part of the Touche Ross network in 1975. In 1972 Robert Trueblood, Chairman of Touche Ross, led the committee responsible for recommending the establishment of the Financial Accounting Standards Board.\n\nIn 1952, Deloitte's firm (by then known as Deloitte, Plender, Griffiths & Co.) merged with Haskins & Sells to form Deloitte Haskins & Sells.\n\nIn 1989, Deloitte Haskins & Sells merged with Touche Ross in the USA to form Deloitte & Touche. The merged firm was led jointly by J. Michael Cook and Edward A. Kangas. Led by the UK partnership, a smaller number of Deloitte Haskins & Sells member firms rejected the merger with Touche Ross and shortly thereafter merged with Coopers & Lybrand to form Coopers & Lybrand Deloitte (later to merge with Price Waterhouse to become PwC). Some member firms of Touche Ross also rejected the merger with Deloitte Haskins & Sells and merged with other firms. In UK, Touche Ross merged with Spicer & Oppenheim in 1990.\n\nAt the time of the US-led mergers to form Deloitte & Touche, the name of the international firm was a problem, because there was no worldwide exclusive access to the names \"Deloitte\" or \"Touche Ross\" – key member firms such as Deloitte in the UK and Touche Ross in Australia had not joined the merger. The name DRT International was therefore chosen, referring to Deloitte, Ross and Tohmatsu. In 1993, the international firm was renamed Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu.\nIn 1995, the partners of Deloitte & Touche decided to create Deloitte & Touche Consulting Group (now known as Deloitte Consulting).\n\nIn 2000, Deloitte acquired Eclipse to add Internet design-based solutions to its consulting capabilities. Eclipse was later separated into Deloitte Online and Deloitte Digital.\n\nIn 2002, Arthur Andersen's UK practice, the firm's largest practice outside the US, agreed to merge with Deloitte's UK practice. Andersen's practices in Spain, the Netherlands, Portugal, Belgium, Mexico, Brazil and Canada also agreed to merge with Deloitte. The spinoff of Deloitte France's consulting division led to the creation of Ineum Consulting.\n\nIn 2005, Deloitte acquired Beijing Pan-China CPA to become the largest accountancy firm in China. Just prior to this acquisition Deloitte China had about 3,200 employees. This acquisition was part of a five-year plan to invest $150 million in China. Deloitte has had a presence in China since 1917.\n\nIn 2007, Deloitte began hiring former employees of the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) for their competitive intelligence unit known as Deloitte Intelligence.\n\nIn 2009, Deloitte purchased the North American public service practice of BearingPoint (formerly KPMG Consulting) for $350 million after it filed for bankruptcy protection.\n\nDeloitte LLP took over the UK property consultants Drivers Jonas in January 2010. As of 2013, this business unit was known as Deloitte Real Estate.\n\nIn 2011, Deloitte acquired DOMANI Sustainability Consulting and ClearCarbon Consulting in order to expand its sustainability service offerings.\n\nIn January 2012, Deloitte announced the acquisition of Übermind, a mobile advertising agency. The acquisition marked Deloitte's first entrance into the mobile application field.\n\nIn November 2012, Deloitte acquired Recombinant Data Corporation, a company specializing in data warehousing and clinical intelligence solutions, and launched Recombinant by Deloitte. In February 2013 Recombinant by Deloitte merged with an internal informatics unit (Deloitte Health Informatics) and launched ConvergeHEALTH by Deloitte.\n\nOn 11 January 2013, Deloitte acquired substantially all of the business of Monitor Group, the strategy consulting firm founded by Harvard Business School professor Michael Porter, after Monitor filed for bankruptcy protection.\n\nIn 2014 the company introduced Rubix, a blockchain consultancy providing advisory services for clients in different business sectors, including government. In 2016 the company created its first blockchain lab in Dublin. A second hub was launched in New York in January 2017. In 2016, Deloitte Canada set-up a Bitcoin automatic teller machine and equipped a restaurant in its office complex to accept bitcoin as payment. Deloitte CIS partnered with Waves Platform to offering services related to initial coin offerings. Deloitte became a member of the Ethereum Enterprise Alliance and the Hyperledger Project sponsored by the Linux Foundation in May 2017.\n\nIn 2016, Deloitte acquired advertising agency Heat of San Francisco, best known for its work Madden NFL from EA Sports and the Hotwire travel website. Heat was the 11th digital marketing agency purchased by Deloitte Digital since its founding in 2012. As of 2016, Deloitte Digital had 7,000 employees. It billed $2.1 billion in 2015, making it one of world's largest digital agencies.\n\nIn September 2016, Apple Inc. announced a partnership with Deloitte aimed at boosting sales of its phones and other mobile devices to businesses. As part of the partnership, the two companies will launch a service called Enterprise Next, in which more than 5,000 Deloitte consultants will advise clients on how to make better use of Apple products and services.\n\nIn October 2016, Deloitte announced that they were creating Deloitte North West Europe. The Belgian, Danish, Dutch, Finnish, Icelandic, Norwegian, and Swedish member firms will combine with the UK and Swiss member firms to create Deloitte North West Europe. Deloitte, over the next three years, will invest €200m to enhance its services to its global, national and private market clients and to create the best development opportunities. The firm will come into effect on 1 June 2017 and it is estimated to have 28,000 partners and people generating over €5bn in annual revenue. Deloitte North West Europe will account for approximately 20% of all revenue within their Global Network.\n\nWhile in 1989, in most countries, Deloitte, Haskins & Sells merged with Touche Ross forming Deloitte & Touche, in the United Kingdom the local firm of Deloitte, Haskins & Sells merged instead with Coopers & Lybrand (later renamed PwC).\n\nWhile the full name of the UK private company is Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited, in 1989 it initially branded itself DTT International. In 2003, the rebranding campaign was commissioned by William G. Parrett, the then-CEO of DTT, and led by Jerry Leamon, the global Clients and Markets leader.\n\nAccording to the company website, Deloitte now refers to the brand under which independent firms throughout the world collaborate to provide audit, consulting, financial advisory, risk management, and tax services to selected clients.\n\nIn 2008, Deloitte adopted its new \"Always One Step Ahead\" (AOSA) brand positioning platform to support the existing Deloitte vision: \"To be the Standard of Excellence\". AOSA represents the global organization's value proposition and is never used as a tagline. The recent launch of the Green Dot ad campaign also aligns with Deloitte's brand strategy and positioning framework.\n\nIn June 2016, Deloitte changed its branding and adopted a new logo with Deloitte written in black color instead of earlier blue.\n\nIn India, Deloitte operates under several brand names including A.F.Ferguson &Co., A.F.Ferguson Associates, S.B.Billimoria, C.C.Choksi & Co., P.C.Hansotia, Fraser & Ross and Deloitte Haskins & Sells (India).\n\nFor many years, the organization and its network of member firms were legally organized as a Swiss Verein (the equivalent to an unincorporated association). As of 31 July 2010, members of the Verein became part of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu (DTTL), a UK private company, limited by guarantee. Each member firm in its global network remains a separate and independent legal entity, subject to the laws and professional regulations of the particular country or countries in which it operates. Deloitte is registered under the NAIC code of 55112.\nThis structure is similar to other professional services networks which seek to limit vicarious liability for acts of other members. As separate and legal entities, member firms and DTTL cannot obligate each other. Professional services continue to be provided by member firms only and not DTTL. With this structure, the members should not be liable for the negligence of other independent members. This structure also allows them to be members of the IFAC Forum of Firms.\n\nDeloitte member firms offer services in the following functions, with country-specific variations on their legal implementation (i.e., all operating within a single company or through separate legal entities operating as subsidiaries of an umbrella legal entity for the country).\n\nAudit provides the organization's traditional accounting and audit services, as well as internal auditing and IT control assurance. In 2018, it accounted for 24% of worldwide revenue share.\n\nInvestors in Guangdong Kelon Electrical Holdings Company Limited have claimed that there was a failure to alert them to the company's poor financial position. Deloitte claims it did a good job on the project. Deloitte's global CEO defended the firm's work on the Kelon matter. The firm was the auditor for thirty months from 2002 to 2004. It qualified its opinion in 2004 as to company sales, returns, and allowances. The firm resigned from the Kelon account after completing the 2004 audit. Deloitte said it resigned from the account because management at the client was not committed to best practices in finance.\n\nConsulting assists clients by providing services in the areas of enterprise applications, technology integration, strategy & operations, human capital, and short-term outsourcing. In 2018, consulting accounted for 38% of worldwide revenue share.\n\nIn \"An American Sickness\" (2017), Dr. Elisabeth Rosenthal attributed to Deloitte a key role in counseling the adoption of \"strategic billing\" as a way of increasing revenues from hospital business. She dates this development from 2005, when Deloitte hired Tommy Thompson, former secretary of health and human services, as chairman of its global healthcare practice. In 2011, Deloitte was ranked No. 1 by revenue in all areas of healthcare consulting—life sciences, payer, provider, and government health.\n\nThe firm implemented the SAP HR system for the Los Angeles Unified School District (LAUSD) for $95 million and because of faults in the system, some teachers were underpaid, overpaid, or not paid at all. As of 31 December 2007, LAUSD had incurred a total of $140 million in payments to Deloitte to get the system working properly. In 2008, there was some evidence that the payroll issues had started to stabilize with errors below 1% according to LAUSD's chief operating officer.\n\nThe firm worked on a statewide case management system which originally had a budget of around $260 million. Almost $500 million had been spent and costs were at one time projected to potentially run as high as $2 billion. No single court became fully operational. California's Judicial Council terminated the project in 2012 citing actual deployment costs associated with the project and California's budget concerns.\n\nFinancial advisory provides corporate finance services to clients, including dispute, personal and commercial bankruptcy, forensics, e-discovery, document review, advisory, mergers & acquisitions, capital projects consulting and valuation services. In 2018, financial advisory accounted for 8% of worldwide revenue.\n\nRisk advisory provides offerings in enterprise risk management, information security and privacy, data quality and integrity, project risk and cyber risk, and business continuity management and sustainability. In 2018, risk advisory accounted for 12% of worldwide revenue.\n\nTax & legal helps clients increase their net asset value, undertake the transfer pricing and international tax activities of multinational companies, minimize their tax liabilities, implement tax computer systems, and provides advisory of tax implications of various business decisions. In 2018, tax & legal accounted for 18% of worldwide revenue.\n\nIn November 2013, the international development charity ActionAid accused Deloitte of advising large businesses on how they could use Mauritius to avoid potentially hundreds of millions of dollars of tax in some of the poorest countries in Africa. Deloitte responded by saying that, in the absence of the double-taxation treaties, they advise their clients to avail themselves of arrangements that could result in less taxes being paid to the countries in question. Deloitte also said it was wrong to say it is tax avoidance to make use of provisions in double tax treaties and that without such treaties investment might be reduced.\n\nGovLab is the internal think tank of Deloitte Consulting LLP's Federal Government consulting practice, focused on innovation and government reform. Created in 2010, GovLab is based in the Washington, D.C. metro area and typically undertakes 8 or 9 research topics per year, focusing on how future trends, technologies, and business models will affect government.\n\nDeloitte operates across the world in more than 100 locations including Hong Kong, China and India.\n\nIn the late 1990s, Deloitte commenced operations in India, at the same time as another large auditing firm KPMG. In India, ICAI regulations do not permit foreign firms to carry out audits in India. Hence Deloitte carries out audits in India under the name of C.C.Chokshi & Co., an existing auditing firm that it arranged an agreement with 1998. In 1992, after India was forced to liberalise under one of the conditions of the world bank and IMF sponsored bail out, Deloitte was granted a license to operate in India. It subsequently purchased C.C.Chokshi & Co and now conducts audits in India under the name of this firm.\n\nIn 2016, \"Fortune\" magazine ranked Deloitte as one of the 100 Best Companies to Work For and Bloomberg Business has consistently named Deloitte as the best place to launch a career.\n\nDeloitte, along with KPMG, PwC and PA Consulting Group were recognized among the UK's best companies to work for in 2017.\n\nDeloitte was named the #1 accounting firm for the ninth year in a row by Inside Public Accounting in August 2017.\n\nIn 2017, Deloitte was ranked as one of the ten best places to work for paternity leave by Fatherly, an online resource for parenting news.\n\nThe Securities and Exchange Commission announced on 26 April 2005 that Deloitte had agreed to pay $50 million to settle charges relating to Adelphia's 2000 financial statements. The settlement was later reported to be as high as $210m or $167.5m.\n\nIn September 2003, Deloitte reported to the Canadian Bar Association (CBA) that motor vehicle accident insurance claims for bodily injury had been declining since 1999 adjusted for inflation. This contradicted the government's and industry's argument that general damages for soft-tissue injury had to be capped at $4,000. Within hours of release, a member of Deloitte was communicating with Insurance Bureau of Canada without the knowledge of CBA (their client) and providing confidential information. The Institute of Chartered Accountants of Alberta found Deloitte guilty of unprofessional conduct and fined the firm $40,000.\n\nIn proceedings arising from the insolvency of the former entertainment company Livent, in April 2014 its special receiver obtained judgment against Deloitte for $84,750,000 in the Ontario Superior Court of Justice, in relation to Deloitte's failure to exercise its duty of care with respect to the audit of Livent's financial statements during 19931998. The ruling was upheld by the Ontario Court of Appeal in January 2016, but in December 2017, the Supreme Court of Canada in \"Deloitte & Touche v Livent Inc (Receiver of)\" allowed an appeal in part, declaring that liability existed only in respect of Deloitte's negligence in conducting the audit for Livent's 1997 fiscal year, and accordingly reduced the amount of damages awarded to $40,425,000.\n\nIn August 2012, Deloitte Financial Advisory Services (DFAS) publicly denied that as the official internal auditors for Standard Chartered, it helped the bank cover up money laundering operations related to Iran which were earning the bank significant profits by \"intentionally omitting critical information\". DFAS paid the state of New York a $10 million settlement, was required not to take on new business for one year from designated New York banks, and was required to implement reforms in order to prevent similar problems in the future. The state regulator stated that there was no evidence DFAS intentionally helped Standard Chartered launder money.\n\nIn 2011, Deloitte was commissioned by the tobacco industry to compile a report on illicit tobacco. The Australian Customs and Border Protection Service officials called the report \"potentially misleading\", and raised concerns about the \"reliability and accuracy\" of the data. When a second Deloitte report focusing on counterfeit cigarettes was released, Home Affairs Minister Brendan O'Connor described the second report as \"baseless and deceptive\" and \"bogus\". Public health officials criticised Deloitte's decision to conduct the research, as it added credibility to the tobacco industry's effort to undermine the Australian Government's plain cigarette packaging legislation.\n\nIn September 2017, \"The Guardian\" reported that Deloitte suffered a cyberattack that breached the confidentiality of its clients and 244,000 staff, allowing the attackers to access \"usernames, passwords, IP addresses, architectural diagrams for businesses and health information\". Reportedly, Deloitte had stored the affected data in Microsoft's Azure cloud hosting service, without two-step verification. The attackers were thought to possibly have had access from as early as October 2016. Brian Krebs reported that the breach affected all of Deloitte's email and administrative user accounts. A later report by \"The Wall Street Journal\" repeated Deloitte's statement that only a few clients were affected. Deloitte said that neither its services nor its clients' businesses were disrupted. Deloitte reportedly first noticed suspicious activity in April 2017. Deloitte said that no sensitive information was compromised and that its investigators were eventually able to read every email obtained by the hackers.\n\n\"The Guardian\" reported that client accounts compromised in the breach included, but were not limited to, the US Department of Defense, the US Department of Homeland Security, the US State Department, the US Department of Energy, mortgage companies Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the National Institutes of Health (NIH), and the US Postal Service. Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac issued statements saying they were not affected by the attack and denied that any of their data was compromised.\n\nDeloitte said that it immediately contacted legal authorities and six clients. Deloitte also increased security measures on the advice of both internal and external experts. As of October 2017, the New York attorney general's office was investigating the hack.\n\nDeloitte had acted as internal auditor at construction and services giant Carillion before it went into liquidation in January 2018. The \"excoriating\" and \"damning\" (\"The Guardian\") final report of the Parliamentary inquiry into Carillion's collapse was published on 16 May 2018, and criticised Deloitte for its involvement in the company's financial reporting practices:\n\nThe select committee chairs (Frank Field and Rachel Reeves) called for a complete overhaul of Britain’s corporate governance regime, accusing the big four accounting firms of operating as a \"cosy club\". Deloitte said it was \"disappointed\" with the committees' conclusions regarding its role as internal auditors, but would take on board any lessons that could be learned from Carillion's collapse.\n\nDeloitte LLP serves as the official professional services sponsor of the United States Olympic Committee since year 2009. The UK member firm of Deloitte was a sponsor of the London 2012 Olympics and the Royal Opera House. The Canadian member firm was also the official professional services supplier for the 2010 Vancouver Winter Olympic Games and 2010 Winter Paralympic Games. In Asia, the Singapore member firm of Deloitte was a sponsor of the 2010 Summer Youth Olympics. The Australian member firm of Deloitte is a Founding Partner of Invictus Games Sydney 2018, and a Principal from the firms Consulting practice is CEO of the not-for-profit entity delivering the Games.\n\nMoreover, Deloitte sponsors many university sports teams and societies, such as Edinburgh University Hockey Club. It also entered into a 3-year partnership with the Cambridge Union Society in November 2013.\n\n"}
{"id": "54202877", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54202877", "title": "Diane Rwigara", "text": "Diane Rwigara\n\nDiane Shima Rwigara is a Rwandan businesswoman and women's rights activist who stood as an independent candidate in the Rwandan presidential election, 2017. Rwigara was charged on 23 September 2017, alongside her mother and four other defendants, with \"inciting insurrection\" among other counts.\n\nDiane Rwigara was born in Kigali in 1982 to a Tutsi family and has three siblings.. Her father, Assinapol Rwigara, an industrialist and a key financier of the Rwandan Patriotic Front, was killed in a car accident on 4 February 2015 in Gacuriro, Kigali. Her family believes the accident was politically motivated murder. The police said he was instantly killed when the Mercedez-Benz car he was driving was in a head-on collision with a heavy truck.\n\nRwigara is a trained accountant. She is a women's rights activist who has repeatedly spoken out against the country's governance under President Paul Kagame and about injustice and oppression.\n\nOn May 3, 2017, Rwigara announced her intention to run in the presidential election. 72 hours later, nude photos of her were leaked in an apparent attempt to humiliate and intimidate her. She reiterated her intention to run, with campaign vows to work towards eradicating poverty, establishing universal health insurance and championing free speech.\n\nOn July 7, 2017, the National Electoral Commission disqualified Rwigara from the election on technical grounds, alleging she had used forged signatures in her presidential bid and had submitted only 572 valid signatures rather than the required 600. Rwigara said she submitted 958 signatures, with an additional 120 after some were disqualified. Two other candidates were also disqualified, prompting Amnesty International to say that the election would be held in a \"climate of fear and repression.\" The decision was also criticised by the US State Department and the European Union. Kagame won the August 4 election with 98% of the vote. Rwigara launched an activist group called the People Salvation Movement to challenge the regime on its human rights record, saying that the country's parliament is little more than a rubber-stamp.. The People Salvation Movement according to Rwigara, will continue her work of sensitising Rwandans about their rights and criticising policies and actions of the ruling Rwanda Patriotic Front (RPF) party.\n\nOn August 30, 2017, Rwigara's home was raided, with police saying she was being investigated for forgery and tax evasion. Rwigara's family reported her missing, saying that unknown armed men in civilian clothes had held her at gunpoint while the house was searched, but police denied that she had been arrested. \n\nNumerous news outlets reported in September 2017, that Rwigara still could not be reached and that her family continued to claim she is missing.\n\nLeon Orsmond, a South African freelance advertising creative, who had helped Rwigara with her social media campaign was also missing in Rwanda since February 2018. Before his disappearance, Orsmond made no secret that he didn’t like the government of Kagame. \n\nIn June 2018, the Rwanda Revenue Authority sold machinery from the family's tobacco business for almost $2m in a bid to recover $7m in tax arrears. A previous auction of Rwigara's family business assets - of processed tobacco - netted more than 500m Rwandan francs. Amnesty International has called on the Rwandan judiciary to ensure that this trial does not become just another means to persecute government critics.\n\nIn August 2018, #FreeDianeRwigara was being used by Kenyans on Twitter to call for Kagame to release Rwigara. This came just days after Twitter users in Kenya did the same for Uganda’s MP Robert Kyagulanyi, better known as Bobby Wine.\n\nOn October 5, 2018, a court ordered a release of Diane Rwigara and her mother, Adeline Rwigara, on bail; this came a few weeks after the early release of 2,140 convicts, including Victoire Ingabire and Kizito Mihigo. After more than one year in prison, Rwanda's High Court finally released Diane Rwigara, a well-known political opponent, and her mother, Adeline, on bail. They cannot leave the capital, Kigali, without permission, and their trial - on politically motivated charges - continues.\n"}
{"id": "12352345", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12352345", "title": "Downtown Fort Worth", "text": "Downtown Fort Worth\n\nDowntown Fort Worth is the central business district of Fort Worth, Texas, United States. Most of Fort Worth's tallest buildings and skyscrapers are located downtown.\n\nSundance Square began as an effort by Sid Bass to revitalize downtown Fort Worth in the early 1980s. At the time, downtown Fort Worth was in decline due to suburbanization. There were many empty gaps between existing skyscrapers and historic buildings that resulted in a pedestrian-unfriendly atmosphere. During many trips to New York City, Sid Bass was fascinated with the urban atmosphere with retail shops, restaurants, office buildings, and museums all working together to form one cohesive experience for the public. Sid did not want to relocate his business to New York so he brought a little of New York to Fort Worth. Sid Bass employed Thomas E. Woodward, AIA, of Woodward & Taylor Architects, a Dallas architectural firm to design Sundance Square because of his experience with historic structures and commercial buildings. Lewis Faulkner, AIA was the Project Architect and Manager for Woodward & Taylor. Woodward & Taylor placed the Knights of Pythias Building on the U. S. Department of Interior's list of Historic Buildings & Places.\n\nToday, Sundance Square is a pedestrian-friendly cluster of blocks in a portion of downtown Fort Worth that features bars, restaurants, museums, theaters, and retail. Sundance Square also has offices and residential units. Most buildings in Sundance Square are either historic or reconstructed, with two modern skyscrapers designed by Paul Rudolph, architect, and a hotel being exceptions. Sidewalks in Sundance Square are paved with brick.\nLewis Faulkner, AIA\n\nSundance Square Plaza is a 55,000 square foot plaza spanning two city blocks within Sundance Square. The plaza features four large Teflon umbrellas, a permanent stage built into the Westbrook building, jetted fountains that illuminate at night, various other fountains, and a pavilion that can be rented. Sundance Square Plaza is bookended by two office buildings: The Westbrook and The Commerce.\n\nBusinesses within the Sundance Square Plaza include: Bird Cafe, Del Frisco's Grille, Jamba Juice, Silver Leaf Cigar Bar, Starbucks and Taco Diner.\n\nFort Worth Water Gardens - A 4.3-acre (17,000 m2) contemporary park, designed by architect Philip Johnson, that features three unique pools of water offering a calming and cooling oasis for downtown patrons. The gardens were used in the finale of the 1976 sci-fi film \"Logan's Run\". (In mid-2004 the Water Gardens had to be closed due to several drownings. It has reopened after preventive measures have been installed.)\n\nBass Performance Hall - Bass Hall is the permanent home to the Fort Worth Symphony Orchestra, Texas Ballet Theater, Fort Worth Opera, and the Van Cliburn International Piano Competition and Cliburn Concerts.\n\nThe \"Fort Worth Convention Center\" includes an 11,200 seat multi-purpose arena.\n\nThe Tower, formerly the Bank One Tower, was severely damaged in the March 28, 2000 tornado. It was converted into a residential tower in 2004. Before the redevelopment, The Tower was covered in plywood and metal panels, and considered to be demolished. The Tower now has a new facade and a new top feature that makes it the fourth tallest building in the city.\n\nCity Center Development features two twin towers, the 38-story D.R. Horton Tower (1984) and the 33-story Wells Fargo Tower (1982). From the top, they are shaped like pinwheels.\n\nThe Hilton Fort Worth opened in 1921 and is where U.S. President John F. Kennedy last stayed before he was assassinated in Dallas.\n\nThe Fort Worth district of the United States Army Corps of Engineers is downtown.\n\nThe United States Postal Service operates the Downtown Fort Worth Post Office at 251 West Lancaster Avenue.\n\nThe Texas Second Court of Appeals is in the Tim Curry Criminal Justice Center in Downtown Fort Worth.\n\nTarrant County Courthouse stands at the north end of Main Street. It has been remodeled over the years and the exterior was used frequently in Walker, Texas Ranger.\n\nDowntown Fort Worth is the central business district of the city, and is home to many commercial office buildings, including four office towers over 450 feet tall.\n\nRadio Shack has its headquarters in Downtown Fort Worth. In 2001 Radio Shack bought the former Ripley Arnold public housing complex in Downtown Fort Worth for $20 million. The company razed the complex and had a corporate headquarters campus built after the City of Fort Worth approved a 30-year economic agreement to ensure that the company stayed in Fort Worth. The company sold the building and, as of 2009, had two years left of a rent-free lease in the building. The company intended to make $66.8 million in the deal with the city. By 2009 it made $4 million; by 2009 the \"Fort Worth Star-Telegram\" reported that the company was considering a new site for its headquarters.\n\nDowntown Fort Worth is also home to the headquarters of Pier 1 Imports, XTO Energy, and TPG Capital.\n\nDowntown Fort Worth is well-served by controlled-access highways, with freeways and parkways converging upon downtown from seven different directions: I-35W from the north and south, I-30 from the east and west, SH 121 from the northeast and southwest, and US 287 from the southeast. Other highways that serve the downtown area include Bus. US 287 (Commerce / Houston Streets), SH 199 (Henderson Street), Spur 280, and Spur 347 (Belknap / Weatherford Streets).\n\nThe primary mass transportation hub of Fort Worth is the Intermodal Transportation Center, located in the eastern portion of downtown at the intersection of Jones Street and 9th Street. About two dozen bus lines operated by The T converge at this hub, as well as the Trinity Railway Express, a commuter rail line to Richland Hills, Irving, and Dallas. Bus service from The T is free within certain downtown boundaries. The T operates a downtown bus circulator known as Molly The Trolley, which uses a bus designed to look like a historic trolley.\n\nIn the future, a 27-mile commuter rail line called TEX Rail will be built from downtown Fort Worth to Grapevine and DFW Airport.\n\nThe Tandy Center Subway, based in the Tandy Center (now known as City Place), operated in Fort Worth from 1963 to 2002. The 0.7 mile (1 km) long subway was the only privately operated subway in the United States.\n\nThe Trinity Trails is a network of over 35 miles (56 km) of pedestrian trails along the Trinity River branching from downtown.\n\nThe University of Texas at Arlington offers several undergraduate and graduate degree programs in the historic Sante Fe Freight Building downtown.\n\nTarrant County College's Trinity River campus is also downtown. In 2008 Tarrant County College purchased several of the buildings that make up the Trinity River campus from Radio Shack, which built the campus as its headquarters in 2004.\n\nThe Fort Worth Independent School District provides public education for children who reside downtown, and has one school (Nash Elementary) downtown.\n\nFort Worth Library operates the Central Library at 500 West Third Street at Taylor Street. The library opened in 1978, and an expansion was completed in 2000, making it one of the largest public libraries in Tarrant County.\n\n\"Logan's Run\", a 1976 science fiction film directed by Michael Anderson and starring Michael York was shot largely in Fort Worth, including locations such as the Fort Worth Water Gardens. The Water Gardens also appear in another science-fiction film of the period, \"The Lathe of Heaven\" (1980).\n\nThe interior of St. Patrick Cathedral was filmed for the 1990 comedy film \"Problem Child\".\n\nFort Worth has several other urban neighborhoods in close proximity to the central business district.\n\nThe Fort Worth Stockyards, north of downtown, offers a taste of the old west and the Chisholm Trail at the site of the historic cattle drives and rail access. The district is filled with restaurants, clubs, gift shops, and attractions such as the twice daily Texas Longhorn cattle drives through the streets, historic reenactments, the Stockyards Museum, the Texas Cowboy Hall of Fame, and Billy Bob's, the world's largest country and western music venue.\n\nThe Cultural District is west of the West Seventh District and Downtown, and is home to many Fort Worth museums, such as the Modern Art Museum of Fort Worth, Kimbell Art Museum, Amon Carter Museum of American Art, Fort Worth Museum of Science and History, and National Cowgirl Museum and Hall of Fame, among others. The district is also home to Will Rogers Memorial Center, which hosts the annual Fort Worth Stock Show and Rodeo.\n\n\"West Seventh\" can refer to the gentrifying neighborhood along West 7th Street between the Cultural District and downtown, the mixed-use development within the district, or the street itself. Most gentrification in the West Seventh District has happened south of West 7th Street.\n\nThe Near Southside is an urban neighborhood just south of downtown. Many Fort Worth hospitals are in this district, including Baylor All Saints Medical Center, Cook Children's Medical Center, Texas Health Harris Methodist, and JPS Health Network, among others. Most pedestrian activity in the Near Southside takes place along Magnolia Avenue.\n\nTexas Christian University is Fort Worth's most prominent university. The 325-acre campus is southwest of the Near Southside and downtown. Neighborhoods surrounding the university are predominantly made up of historic single family homes. In recent years, demand for more student housing has resulted in many historic houses being torn down for larger houses designed to accommodate large numbers of students, upsetting many existing residents. Nightlife options and restaurants geared to students can be found along University Drive and Berry Street.\n\nThe Trinity River Vision Authority, Tarrant Regional Water District, City of Fort Worth, Tarrant County, Streams & Valleys Inc, and U.S. Army Corps of Engineers are cooperating in an effort to redevelop Panther Island, an 800-acre area north of downtown along the Trinity River. The first part of the redevelopment plan calls for infrastructure improvements and flood protection. The second part calls for mixed-use development and sustainable growth along the Trinity River, which would result in a vibrant urban neighborhood.\n\nPanther Island is home to several attractions, including Coyote Urban Drive-In Movie Theater, Panther Island Pavilion, and LaGrave Field (home of the Fort Worth Cats and Fort Worth Vaqueros FC).\n\n"}
{"id": "2853138", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2853138", "title": "Downtown Long Beach", "text": "Downtown Long Beach\n\nDowntown Long Beach is the heart of Long Beach, California, United States, and is the location for most of the city's major tourist attractions and municipal services. It is also the location for numerous businesses. There are many hotels and restaurants in the area that serve locals, tourists, and convention visitors.\n\nDowntown Long Beach is bounded by the Los Angeles River to the west, and Ocean Boulevard to the south (south of Ocean is considered the \"Downtown Shoreline,\" a separate area). Alamitos Avenue roughly delimits downtown to the east, although the City's actual downtown zoning extends a few blocks east of Alamitos. Similarly, downtown effectively ends around 7th Street to the north, but the City's downtown zoning carries as far north as Anaheim Street between Pacific Avenue and Long Beach Boulevard, and up to 10th Street east of that.\n\nThe greater downtown area includes the neighborhoods of the East Village Arts District, the West End, North Pine, the Civic Center, and the \"Downtown Core\" or central business and entertainment area.\n\n\n\nDuring the 2028 Summer Olympics, downtown Long Beach will host BMX Cycling, Water Polo, Triathlon and Open Water Swimming. \n\n\nThe United States Postal Service Downtown Long Beach Post Office is located at 300 Long Beach Boulevard.\n\nThe Downtown Long Beach Alliance manages the business- and commercial property-based improvement districts in Downtown Long Beach. There are approximately 1,500 businesses in Downtown Long Beach, including several law firms given the proximity of the Los Angeles County Courthouse, as well as over 150 restaurants, wine bars, performing arts venues, and the Long Beach Convention and Entertainment Center. A complete and frequently updated business directory is available online at Downtown Long Beach Alliance's website.\n\nThe California State University system headquarters are at 401 Golden Shore in Downtown Long Beach.\n\nThe following are located in Long Beach's downtown area: \n\nDowntown Long Beach is within the Long Beach Unified School District.\n\n"}
{"id": "13566232", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13566232", "title": "Downtown Macon, Georgia", "text": "Downtown Macon, Georgia\n\nDowntown Macon refers to the largest financial district for the city of Macon, Georgia, United States. It is home to many museums, ranging from the Georgia Sports Hall of Fame to the Tubman African American Museum. Numerous Antebellum homes are located in Downtown Macon, including the Woodruff House, the Hay House, and the Cannonball House. The most notable church in downtown Macon is Mulberry Street United Methodist Church, the oldest Methodist Church in the state of Georgia.\nTerminal Station (Macon, Georgia), was built in 1916.\n\nSome notable buildings in Downtown Macon are:\n\n\nThe biggest tourist attraction in downtown Macon is the annual Cherry Blossom Festival, but there are also many other smaller attractions, such as the many museums (mentioned above), and also small parades for holidays such as Thanksgiving and Christmas.\n\n"}
{"id": "48938957", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48938957", "title": "Econodynamics", "text": "Econodynamics\n\nEconodynamics is an empirical science that studies emergences, motion and disappearance of value—a specific concept that is used for description of the processes of production and distribution of wealth. Econodynamics is based on the achievements of classical political economy and neo-classical economics and has been using the methods of phenomenological science to investigate evolution of economic system. Econodynamics has been proposing methods of analysis and forecasting of econimic processes. The comprehensive review of the problems of econodynamics is given recently by Vladimir Pokrovskii.\n\nEconomic events are considered as processes of creation, motion and distribution of value that is understood as exchange value without any factor interpretation. The factor theory of the exchange value is based on the Smith-Marx’s labour theory of value. according to which efforts of workers formula_1 are the most essential production factor. It was impossible to explain the modern economic growth without introduction the second value-creating factor, closely connected with production equipment. The neoclassical economics has delabourated the ideas about productive force of capital and is using the value of production equipment formula_2 as a characteristic variable. In addition to it, econodynamics has been taking into account the functional role of production equipment, as a set of appliances that allow to substitute efforts of workers with work of outer sources of power. A new concept of substitutive work formula_3 was introduced, to characterize the functional role of machinery in production processes. The law of substitution, which is one of the main principles of econodynamics, generalized the Smith-Marx’s labour theory of value. and provide a new interpretation of neo-classical economics. The variable formula_3 is true work of production equipment and is equivalent to workers’ efforts in entire relationship, so that the production of value formula_5 can be considered as a function of the two production factors\n\nThe extension of the labour theory of value with the law of substitution allows us to formulate the theory, which, in fact, is a modification and re-interpretation of neo-classical theory of production with two production factors: labour formula_1 and capital formula_2. The comparison of the theory with neo-classical theory growth accounting that introduce the technical progress as the exogenous factor formula_8 gives the expression \n\nThe exogenous neo-classical technical progress formula_8 appears to be connected with the ratio of substitutive work to stock of capital formula_10, which can be considered as a measure of technological progress itself, independent on the assumption made in the neo-classical theory. Sometimes it is convenient to use the non-dimensional ratio of substitutive work to labour efforts formula_11 as a characteristic of technological progress; this quantity can be interpreted as the number of 'mechanical workers', operating in the production processes, in line with an 'alive worker'. To the end of the last century, this ratio reaches, for example, 12 for the USA. Technical progress, as an internal property of the theory, is understood as a progress in substitution of labour with work of production equipment in technological processes.\n\nThe introduction of the substitutive work formula_3 could be useful, if one can measure the quantity. Although one can easily find estimates of the total amount of primary energy carriers, the biggest interest for our aims is caused by possible assessments of the quantity of energy going to the substitution of workers' efforts in processes of the production. This is a problem, which has been considered specially. The direct methods of estimation of the substitutive work can be used for both past and future situations. For example, the total amount of substitutive work in the U.S. economy in 1999 can be estimated as formula_13 J per year. It is approximately one hundred times less than total (primary) consumption of energy, which was about formula_14 J in 1999. However, the amount of primary energy (energy carriers), which is needed to provide this amount of substitutive work, is about formula_15 J. It is about 26% of total primary consumption of energy.\n\nEconodynamics establishes relationship between the concreate wealth and abstract concepts of value, utility and entropy. The artificial products created by humans: buildings, machines, vehicles, sanitation, clothes, home appliances and so on, can be sorted and counted, so that one consider the amounts of quantities in natural units of measurement formula_16 and the prices of all products formula_17 to be given, so that one can define increase in value of a stock of products as\nDue to dependence of prices on the amounts of products formula_18, one can hardly expect that form (4) is a total differential of any function. In other words, one cannot say that formula_19 is a characteristic of the set of the products which is independent of the history of their creation. However, a function of a state, which is called utility function, can be introduced on the basis of relation (4). Indeed, the linear form (4) can be multiplied by a certain function, which is called integration factor formula_20, so that, instead of form (4), one has a total differential of a new function \n\nThe artificial products can be considered, as it was explained by Prigogine with collaborators, as the far-from-equilibrium objects (the dissipative structures), and to create and maintain them, the fluxes of matter and energy are necessary to run through the system. In our case, energy comes in the form of human efforts formula_1 and work of external sources formula_3 that can be used by means of the appropriate equipment. The creation of dissipative structures leads to decrease in entropy, and utility formula_22 can be considered as a close relation to entropy formula_26, though does not coincides with it. Considering that changes of internal energy in production of things can be neglected, one can write a thermodynamic relation \n\nReconciliation of the two points of view on the phenomenon of production leads to a unified picture that enables us to relate some aspects of our observations of economic phenomena to physical principles. A flux of information and work eventually determines new organisation of matter, which acquires forms of different commodities (complexity), whereby the production process is considered as a process of materialisation of information. The cost of materialisation of information is work of production system. To maintain complexity in a thermodynamic system, fluxes of matter and energy must flow through the system.\n\nTo formulate the system of evolution equations of the production system, function (1) ought to be specified and dynamic equations for production factors formula_1, formula_3 and formula_2 to be formulated, while nessasery technological characteristics of production equipment to be introduced. In result, it came to the set of equations of economic growth -- the theory of evolution, dubbed as the technological theory of social production. The theory is formulated both in one-sector, and, using the Wassily Leontief's input-output model, in multi-sector approximations. The data for the U.S. economy in the last century was used to justify the specification of the theory. It was demonstrated that the substitution of worker's efforts with work of the production equipment appears to be more adequate idea than the substitution of worker's efforts with the amount of production equipment (capital in the neo-classical theory of economic growth); work can be replaced onky with work, not with capital. The theory demonstrates that the growth of production is caused by achievements in technological consumption of labour and energy. The set of equations determines three modes of economic development, depending on deficit of one of the factors: investment, labour or substitutive work. The changing of modes during the development reveals as short cycles in growth—the busyness cycles.\n\nThe theory can be applied to any national economy; principles of consistent analysis and forecast are considered. As an example, dynamics of Russian economy for years 1960 - 2060 is considered in one-sector and three-sector approximations(see. Chapter 8 and 9). The elementary, three-branch model is used (see. Section 2.2.2, Table 2.2 in Chapter 2 and Section 9.5 in Chapter 9) for the description of dynamics of production (the expanded reproduction, in Marx's terms).\n\nThe theory allows, being based on the Angus Maddison\"s estimates of the Gross World Product and World population, to restore the picture of development of mankind in the previous centuries. It was shown (see , Chapter 12). that one need the theory, based on the effect of substitution of worker's efforts with work of external power (two-factor theory), for the description of the evolution of production activity from approximately year 1000 of our era. Before this time the substitution of human’s efforts for outer work practically was not noticeable, and one can use one-factor theory that is taking into account only one production factor -- efforts of workers. The theory is stated (see. section 1.3.1, the formula 1.1 in chapter 1 and section 12.3 in chapter 12).\n\nOne can see on raw of examples that the production system, indeed, tries to swallow all available resources. This sentence can be considered as the principle of development of the production system and the human population itself, that has been developing as a self-organising system, trying to catch as much energy as possible. The human population, as any biological population obeys energy principle of evolution, which states that those populations and their associations (ecosystems) which can use the greater amount of energy from their environment have an advantage for survival. A lot of energy is used by a human population through improvements of technology, and the managing huge amount of energy allows the human population to survive in every climate zone of the Earth and expand itself in great measure. The enlargement of the human population from a very small group a million years ago till about 7 billion in year 2012 ought to be apparently connected with enhancement of the living conditions. Apparently, it is impossible to explain growth of number of human population, not referring on social production system—the means of adopting the human to conditions of existence.\n\nProduction of value (for year, for example) formula_5 is a money estimate of 'useful' changes in our environment (in the form of useful consumer goods and services), which can be connected with production factors. In the Smith-Marx's theory of value, it is postulated that estimate of the efforts of workers formula_1 is an ultimate source of all created wealth (products), an absolute measure of value. When one accounts the effect of substitution of workers' efforts with the true work of the production equipment, one could expect, that the total amount of work on the production of value, which is the sum of properly accounted work of humans formula_1 and work of production equipment (substitutive work) formula_3, both measured in power units, could be an absolute measure of value, and one can write \n\nThis relation allows one to estimate the work needed for creation of wealth worth of one monetary units (energy content of monetary unit), which was done for different cases. For example, the mean value of 'energy content' of dollar of year 1996 in years 1960 - 2000 is formula_34 J. The values of the 'energy content' of monetary units that are used for accounting change during the time, which shows that the used units of money do not present constant amounts of 'true' value. The absolute measure of value can be introduced as some amount of energy.\n"}
{"id": "52845623", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52845623", "title": "Elspeth Kennedy (sharebroker)", "text": "Elspeth Kennedy (sharebroker)\n\nElspeth Cantlie Kennedy (born Elsie Cantlie Myron; 3 April 1931 – 8 January 2017) was a New Zealand sharebroker and community leader. She was the first woman in New Zealand to be elected as a member of a metropolitan stock exchange, and the first to run her own broking firm. Kennedy chaired the Nelson Tasman Hospice Trust from 1998 to 2014.\n\nBorn in Invercargill on 3 April 1931 as Elsie Cantlie Myron, she was educated at Southland Girls' High School. She showed early business acumen, running her grandfather's coal retailing business when she was just 17 years old, and then worked at the Invercargill City Council where she became credit manager at the age of 20 years. In 1952 Kennedy went to Britain to study singing, qualiifying as a Fellow of Trinity College London. Returning to New Zealand, Kennedy later settled in Nelson in the 1970s, where she taught at the Nelson School of Music.\n\nShe married James Kennedy-Simpson. The couple had three children but later divorced.\n\nIn 1979 Kennedy was employed by Frank Renouf as the local-body specialist at his Wellington sharebroking firm, and three years later she became the first woman in New Zealand to become a member of a metropolitan stock exchange when she was elected to the Wellington Exchange. Kennedy joined Francis Allison Symes in 1984, establishing that firm's local authority money market. She was the first New Zealand woman, in January 1987, to establish her own brokerage firm, Kennedy Sharebrokers, which merged with Main Corporation later that year.\n\nAfter resigning as chair of Main Corporation in December 1987, Kennedy was involved in setting up the Government Computer Service, of which she was a director until 1993. She also served as deputy chair of the Nelson Bays Business Development Board, chair of the South Island Promotion Association, and a director of various companies including Mount Cook Group.\n\nKennedy became a trustee of the Nelson Tasman Hospice Trust in 1998, and served as chair of that organisation from 1998 until 2014. She was instrumental in the establishment of the Nelson Hospice in 1999.\n\nIn the 1990 New Year Honours Kennedy was appointed a Member of the Order of the British Empire for services to tourism. Also in 1990 she received the New Zealand 1990 Commemoration Medal. She was appointed a Companion of the Queen's Service Order for services to the community in the 2009 New Year Honours.\n\nIn 2003, Kennedy was named Nelsonian of the Year by the \"Nelson Mail\" newspaper. She was posthumously inducted into the New Zealand Business Hall of Fame in 2018.\n\nKennedy died in Nelson on 8 January 2017.\n"}
{"id": "39829826", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39829826", "title": "Emin Iskenderov", "text": "Emin Iskenderov\n\nEmin Iskenderov (Эмин Искендеров; Moscow, 15 February 1976) is a Russia-born real estate developer and businessman based in Paris (France) and known for the mixed use twin towers project Hermitage Plaza. He is also a member of the Economic Council under the Ambassador of the Russian Federation in France.\n\n"}
{"id": "52641508", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52641508", "title": "Exergy (software)", "text": "Exergy (software)\n\nExergy is software developed by SilverBridge Holdings, a South African developer of business software for the financial services market in Africa. SilverBridge Holdings listed on the AltX on 27 November 2006.\n\nThe software is designed for life insurance companies to assist them in the administration of their policies.\n\nIn 2012, SilverBridge entered into a partnership with Net2Africa with the purpose of expanding the services offering of Exergy.\n\nExergy celebrated its 10th anniversary in 2014. In the same year, the software saw the introduction of Exergy KnowledgeBase, designed to provide a way of reducing risk in IT projects.\n\nAt the company's 2016 results, it was reported that Exergy is being used by businesses across Africa including in Angola, Botswana, Kenya, Malawi, Mauritius, and Ghana.\n\nIn November 2016, it was reported that SilverBridge has done an implementation at GetSure Zimbabwe to help the company migrate its business to a cloud computing system. The solution was based on the Exergy system.\n"}
{"id": "26105075", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26105075", "title": "Government performance management", "text": "Government performance management\n\nGovernment performance management (GPM) consists of a set of processes that help government organizations optimize their business performance. It provides a framework for organizing, automating, and analyzing business methodologies, metrics, processes and systems that drive business performance. Some commentators see GPM as the next generation of business intelligence (BI) for governments. GPM helps governments to make use of their financial, human, material, and other resources. In the past, owners have sought to drive strategy down and across their organizations; they have struggled to transform strategies into actionable metrics and they have grappled with meaningful analysis to expose the cause-and-effect relationships that, if understood, could give profitable insight to their operational decision-makers. GPM software and methods allow a systematic, integrated approach that links government strategy to core processes and activities. \"Running by the numbers\" now means something: planning, budgeting, analysis, and reporting can give the measurements that empower management decisions.\n\nAccording to Gartner, the Enterprise Performance Management (EPM) suite market continues to experience strong momentum, growing 19% during 2007. This is slightly in advance of their earlier market sizing and forecast analysis, which anticipated 2007 revenue to be $1.836 million, representing an 18% year-over-year growth. In the latest forecast, Gartner believe that the market for EPM will be more than $3 billion by 2011, representing a 14.4% compound annual growth rate. Several factors contributed to the continued significant growth in EPM revenue during 2007:\n\nGartner expects the business Intelligence software market to reach $3 billion in 2009. \"Companies around the world have purchased more than US$40 billion worth of enterprise applications, including ERP, CRM and HR, during the past few years,\" said Colleen Graham, principal research analyst at Gartner. \"This has generated significant volumes of data in support of the operational processes they automate. By investing in BI, companies can further leverage their enterprise application investments and turn the torrent of data into meaningful insight to better measure performance, respond more quickly to market changes and opportunities and comply with an increasingly complex regulatory environment.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "12581978", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12581978", "title": "Graphic Arts Monthly", "text": "Graphic Arts Monthly\n\nGraphic Arts Monthly () was a trade publication and web site owned by Reed Business Information serving the information needs of the printing industry, including printers and trade plants.\n\nThe editor-in-chief was Bill Esler, with the editorial offices located in Oak Brook, Illinois, USA.\nAs the name implies, \"Graphic Arts Monthly\" had been published monthly since its establishment in 1929. Several common articles included Best Track, Ink Etc., Mail Call, and Sales Call.\n\nIn September, \"Graphic Arts Monthly\" published \"The Official Show Daily\", which was produced on behalf of the Graphic Arts Show Company for the annual \"Graph Expo & PackPrint\".\n\nAs of June 2008, total BPA audited circulation was 70,100 subscribers.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43124380", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43124380", "title": "Hallgrímur Fr. Hallgrímsson", "text": "Hallgrímur Fr. Hallgrímsson\n\nHallgrímur Fr. Hallgrímsson (October 17, 1905 at Grund, Manitoba, Canada – September 16, 1984 in Reykjavík) was one of Iceland's leading businessmen and political figures in the mid-twentieth century.\n\nHallgrímur's parents were Friðrik Hallgrímsson, priest at Grund and later dean in Reykjavík, and Bentína Hansína Björnsdóttir Hallgrímsson.\n\nHallgrímur graduated from high school at Baldur, Manitoba in 1924 and from 1925 lived in Reykjavík, moving there when his father became a priest at the cathedral in Reykjavík. On November 17, 1928, he married Margrét Þorbjörg Thors, daughter of the business magnate Thor Philip Axel Jensen, by whom he had Margrét Þóra Hallgrímsson and Elína Benta. Towards the end of his life, he suffered from dementia.\n\nAfter moving to Reykjavík, Hallgrímur began working for Shell Oil. In 1925 Hallgrímur became the chairman of Shell in Iceland until 1956 and the director of Olíufélagið Skeljungs from the same year until 1971. He was on the board of the company Anglia from 1943 and its chairman in 1948-56. He was a member of the Verslunarráð Íslands (now Viðskiptaráð Íslands, the Iceland Chamber of Commerce) 1955-60 and on the board of the Vinnuveitendasamband Íslands (Confederation of Icelandic Employers) from 1952. After retirement, he continued to receive his final salary from Shell, and after his death, the salary was paid to his widow.\n\nHallgrímur was Iceland's consul to Canada from 1957, and sat on the economic and party committees of the Icelandic Independence Party.\n\nHe maintained close contact with the UK, and received the highest honour which the British government bestows on foreigners, Commander of the Order of the British Empire. He also received the Grand Cross of the Icelandic Order of the Falcon and of the Norwegian Order of St. Olav.\n\nHe was the deputy chairman of Iceland's Olympic Committee 1932-36 and its chair 1945-49; a member and later honorary member of the Reykjavík Golf Club from 1934 and its chairman 1943-49; and a member of the Rotary Club of Iceland from 1936, and its chair 1940-43.\n"}
{"id": "8708379", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8708379", "title": "Henri Tudor", "text": "Henri Tudor\n\nHenri Owen Tudor (30 September 1859, in Ferschweiler – 31 May 1928) was a Luxembourgish engineer, inventor, and industrialist. He developed the first practical lead-acid battery in 1886 (Gaston Planté was the French physicist who invented the theoretical principle of a lead-acid battery in 1859).\n\nTudor established a factory in Rosport for the purposes of manufacturing the batteries. However, the cost of manufacturing the product in Luxembourg, which had no lead industry and little domestic demand of its own, forced Tudor to expand manufacturing abroad, particularly in Belgium, France, Germany, and the United Kingdom. Tudor died in 1928, at the age of 68, of lead poisoning. At the time of his death, 25,000 people worked in the manufacture of Tudor batteries.\n\nIn 1987, CRP Henri Tudor (the Public Research Centre Henri Tudor) was founded in Luxembourg, and named in honor of Henri Owen Tudor and his devotion to research and innovation. In May 2009, the Tudor Museum with exhibits relating to his development of the lead-acid accumulator, opened in Rosport Castle where Tudor lived.\n\nGregor Brand: Henri Owen Tudor. Erfinder und Unternehmer aus Ferschweiler. http://www.eifelzeitung.de/redaktion/kinder-der-eifel/henri-owen-tudor-12869/ (German)\n"}
{"id": "12884081", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12884081", "title": "Hideo Ohkubo", "text": "Hideo Ohkubo\n\nOhkubo was born in Tokyo. He graduated from the Law department of Kokugakuin University. He worked at both traditional Japanese large-scaled corporations and the foreign-oriented full-commission based companies and saw the advantages and disadvantages over each other. He thus got the idea to undertake the creation of a company with the advantages of both types of companies.\n\nHe founded in 1980. Within a year of its founding, it had already become Japan's top business telephone leasing company. In 1988 his company went public on JASDAQ, becoming the youngest company in history to do so. That same year he won the \"Young Entrepreneur of the Year\" Award from the New Business Convention.\n\nIn 2000 Forval Telecom made its first public offering on the Mothers board of the Tokyo Stock Exchange. In 2001 Forval Creative made a public offering on NASDAQ Japan (now the Hercules market of the Osaka Securities Exchange).\n\nOhkubo supports financing and various arrangements that have encouraged past Forval employees and business partners to create their own successful companies, some of which have since gone public. He also works with the Forval Foundation, which sponsors the \"Stradivarius Scholarship\" to grant the winner of a violinist competition the free use of the foundation's Stradivarius violin for 2 years.\n\nHe is a leadership committee member of the Tokyo Chamber of Commerce, vice-committee chairman of Advancement of New Industry, and vice-chairman of the New Business Convention.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15338647", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15338647", "title": "Isao Nakauchi", "text": "Isao Nakauchi\n\nIsao Nakauchi served in the Philippines as an infantryman during World War II. His business empire started in Osaka 1957 and it led to the creation of \"American-style\" supermarkets in Japan. In 1972 he led the biggest retailer in Japan, one that owned a store in Hawaii and a baseball team. The 1980s proved more difficult for the business as its competition and debts increased. He stepped down in 2002 and in 2004 he sold his stocks in the company. In 2005, he died of a stroke according to The University of Marketing and Distribution Sciences in Kobe, which he had founded.\n"}
{"id": "23704865", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23704865", "title": "JOC Group", "text": "JOC Group\n\nJOC Group Inc., is a provider of global intelligence for trade, transportation and logistics professionals. It is founded in 1827 and is currently headquartered in Newark, New Jersey. Owned by IHS Inc., its brands include The Journal of Commerce, , and a number of directory databases covering the international trade, railroad, and trucking markets. The JOC Group also stages about 11 conferences and exhibitions serving international trade and maritime markets.\n\nThe organization runs The Journal of Commerce as a weekly news magazine, which provides news in various categories, including maritime, ports, rail and intermodal, trucking, air cargo, international logistics, government regulation and policy, economy watch, international trade news, market data, and annual review and outlook. It has a circulation of approximately 15,000. The \"Journal\" also has an online edition, providing content as well as advertising opportunities to its clients. The website features a webcast and white papers in addition to its news and analysis sections.\n\nThrough its brands including The Journal of Commerce, JOC Group provides import and export trade information to more than 1,600 companies, governments, and associations in more than 50 countries.\n\nElectra acquired JOC Group Inc., in April 2013 from UK based events-led marketing services and communications company UBM plc. The company changed its name to JOC Group Inc., following that acquisition (previously UBM Global Trade Inc.).\n\nIHS Inc., announced in November 2014 that it had signed a definitive agreement to acquire JOC Group Inc.\n"}
{"id": "50994543", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50994543", "title": "James Hamilton (language teacher)", "text": "James Hamilton (language teacher)\n\nJames Hamilton (1769–1829) was an Irish language teacher, who introduced the \"Hamiltonian system\" of teaching languages.\n\nHamilton was taught for four years at a Dublin school run by two Jesuits, Beatty and Mulhall. He went into business, and for about three years before the French Revolution was living in France.\n\nIn 1798 Hamilton was established as a merchant in Hamburg, and went for instruction in German to General D'Angeli, a French émigré. D'Angeli, without using a grammar book, translated to him word for word a German book of anecdotes, parsing as he proceeded; and after about twelve lessons Hamilton found that he could read some German books. Beatty and Mulhall had had a somewhat similar system.\n\nMoving to Paris Hamilton with the banking-house of Karcher & Co., did business with England at the time of the Peace of Amiens. At the end of the Pace in 1803 he was detained, and his business was ruined.\n\nHamilton went to New York in October 1815, with the idea of becoming a farmer and manufacturing potash. He changed his mind, and began to teach languages. His method started with a word-for-word translation, and left instruction in grammar till a later stage. His first pupils were three ministers and Judge William P. Van Ness of the District Court; he charged a dollar a lesson, and taught pupils to read French in 24 lessons of four hours each.\n\nIn September 1816 Hamilton went to Philadelphia, and gave a lecture on the \"Hamiltonian System\". In 1817 he moved on to Baltimore, his wife and daughters teaching with him. The professors at Baltimore College ridiculed him in a play, \"The New Mode of Teaching\", acted by their pupils. Hamilton went to the play, and three days later published it in a newspaper, with his own comments. He claimed a Hamiltonian school at Baltimore, with more than 160 pupils and 20 teachers. Bad health and money troubles meant he went on to Washington.\n\nAt Boston, Hamilton could only obtain four pupils. A professor at Boston University attacked him as a charlatan, but a committee examined his pupils, and he soon had 200. He taught also at colleges in Schenectady, Princeton, Yale, Hartford, and Middleburg.\n\nIn 1822 Hamilton went to Montreal, and then to Quebec. At Montreal he instructed a gaoler, and then successfully taught reading to eight English prisoners there. He left America in July 1823, and came to London, where in eighteen months he had more than 600 pupils learning different languages, and seven teachers. He left his school to the teachers, and afterwards taught his system in Liverpool, Manchester, Edinburgh, Dublin, Belfast, and at least other places. In London he taught at his house, No. 25 Cecil Street, Strand, and then in Gower Street.\n\nAs an experiment over six months in 1825 saw ten school boys live in Hamilton's house. At the end of the period they were examined in Latin translation, French and Italian. The expenses of this experiment were partly borne by John Smith, M.P. Hamilton's system and extensive advertising were attacked by school-masters and others. A defence by Sydney Smith appeared in the \"Edinburgh Review\" for June 1826. The Hamiltonian system was also defended in the \"Westminster Review\".\n\nHamilton died in Dublin on 16 September 1829, in his sixtieth year.\n\nIn Philadelphia Hamilton printed his first reading-book, chapters i–iii. of St. John's Gospel, in French, with an interlinear translation. Further books with literal and interlinear English translations published by Hamilton, and mostly of gospels and classics, appeared in Ancient Greek, Latin including Charles François Lhomond's \"Epitome Historiæ Sacræ\", French including Jean Baptiste Perrin's \"Fables\", German including Joachim Heinrich Campe's \"Robinson Crusoe\", and Italian. In time unauthorised books appeared, professing to be adapted to his system.\n\n"}
{"id": "31094150", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31094150", "title": "Johan Houwers", "text": "Johan Houwers\n\nJohan Houwers (born 4 October 1957 in Winterswijk) is a Dutch politician and real estate broker. As a member of the People's Party for Freedom and Democracy (Volkspartij voor Vrijheid en Democratie) he was an MP from 26 October 2010 to 20 September 2012. He focused on matters of greenhouses, fishery, hunting, animal welfare, spatial planning and water. From 8 November 2012 he once again was an MP, resigning on 22 July 2013 following to a mortgage fraud investigation. He served as an independent MP between 25 March 2015 and 23 March 2017.\n\nHouwers was a member of the municipal council of Winterswijk from 1990 to 2002 and again between 11 March 2010 and 5 July 2012. From 1990 to 1994 and again since 2010 he was VVD fraction leader. From 1994 to 2001 he was also an alderman and from 1999 to 2010 a member of the States of Gelderland.\n\nHouwers studied social geography (BA) as well as urban planning (MA) at Radboud University Nijmegen.\n\nAfter the possible return of the wolf to the Netherlands, Houwers mentioned that if the population numbers rose, wolves should be shot so they would not present a harm to society. Houwers clashed with the coalition Labour Party politician Lutz Jacobi on the topic.\n\nOn 22 July 2013 Houwers resigned his seat after it was revealed that the police started an investigation into him concerning possible mortgage fraud. Aegon and Rabobank, the mortgage providers, filed charges against him because he did not represent his income correctly. On 31 July justice authorities seized Houwers' property in Winterswijk for 1 million euro. Houwers said he would wait for the outcome of the investigation before responding to the press. On 16 March 2015 he was found guilty of forgery and fraud and had to pay a fine of €4000. According to the fraction leader of the VVD in Parliament, Halbe Zijlstra, he could not return as an MP for the VVD.\n\n"}
{"id": "1977782", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1977782", "title": "John Astor", "text": "John Astor\n\nJohn Astor (26 September 1923 – 27 December 1987) was an English politician. John was the third son of John Jacob Astor V (1886–1971) and Violet Mary Elliot-Murray-Kynynmound (1889–1965). He had two elder brothers, Gavin (1918–1984) and Hugh (1920–1999). Violet also had two children, Mary (1910–2003) and George (1912–1997), from her first marriage to Lord Charles Petty-Fitzmaurice (1874–1914).\n\nHe was educated at Summerfields and Eton College. During World War II he served in the Royal Air Force Volunteer Reserve. He was a Berkshire County Councillor from 1953 and an alderman from 1960.\n\nAstor was elected as the MP for Newbury in the 1964 general election and was re-elected twice, in 1966 and 1970 but stood down before the first February 1974 general election. In 1970 he was appointed to the position of Parliamentary Private Secretary to the Minister of Overseas Development.\n\nIn 1950, he married Diana Kathleen Drummond (11 April 1926 – 1982), daughter of George Henry Drummond and Helena Kathleen Holt. Helena was a niece of civil engineer Herbert Samuel Holt. They had three children, two sons and a daughter.\n\nIn 1982, he married Penelope Eve Bradford. They had no children. Penelope died on 31 December 2006.\n\nHe lived at Kirby House, Inkpen, Berkshire.\n\n"}
{"id": "41277343", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41277343", "title": "John Bell-Irving", "text": "John Bell-Irving\n\nJohn Bell-Irving, JP (2 February 1846 – 1925) was a Scottish businessman in Hong Kong. He was a partner of the Jardine Matheson & Co., one of the leading trading firm in the Far East.\n\nHe was the eldest son of John Bell-Irving of Whitehill, a director of Hongkong Electric Company and partner of the Jardine Matheson & Co. His mother, Mary Jardine, was a nephew of William Jardine and sister of Sir Robert Jardine, the founders of the Jardine Matheson. He arrived in Hong Kong in 1872 and succeeded his father to become a partner of the Jardine Matheson from 1876 to 1891. He is also vice-chairman of the Hong Kong General Chamber of Commerce, member of the City Hall Committee and the St. Paul's College, steward of the Hong Kong Jockey Club, president of Polo Club, chairman of the China Sugar Refining Co., director of the Hongkong and Whampoa Dock Co. Ltd. and the Hongkong, Canton & Macao Steam-Boat Co. Ltd., member of consulting committee of the Douglas Steamship Co..\n\nHe was made Justice of the Peace and was appointed one of the six members of the Legislative Council of Hong Kong in 1886 and 1887. His younger brother, James Jardine Bell-Irving, was also member of the Executive and Legislative Councils of Hong Kong.\n\nHe married Isabella Thornton of Henry Thornton and Louisa Bannerman Thornton, a niece of Williamina MacKenzie, wife of Colonial Secretary of Hong Kong, William Marsh. They had one son, Major John Bell-Irving.\n"}
{"id": "41444454", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41444454", "title": "John Hamilton Gillespie", "text": "John Hamilton Gillespie\n\nColonel John Hamilton Gillespie (14 October 1852 – 7 September 1923) was a Scottish-American soldier, land developer, businessman and politician, who settled in Sarasota, Florida, becoming Sarasota's first mayor.\n\nGillespie was born in Edinburgh, Scotland. As a boy he lived with his family at 53 Northumberland Street, Edinburgh and was educated at the nearby Edinburgh Academy and subsequently at the University of St Andrews. Like his father, he was a member of the Royal Company of Archers. (a ceremonial unit that serves as the Sovereign's Bodyguard in Scotland). He was admitted to The Society of Writers to Her Majesty’s Signet in 1875 and also served as a captain in the Midlothian Coast Artillery Volunteers. Upon his return from colonial service in Australia, his father, Sir John Gillespie, sent him to Sarasota, Florida in 1886 to work for the Florida Mortgage and Investment Company.\n\nGillespie found his father’s company in poor condition and began improving the community in Sarasota and soon business was booming. In May 1886 he laid out two golf holes on his property. This was the first golf course in Florida and the second in the United States. An avid golfer, Gillespie learned the game at St. Andrews. In 1905 he built a nine-hole course on property now which is now the site of the Sarasota County Courthouse, Florida. He went on to lay out courses for Henry Plant, Tampa, Winter Park and Havana, Cuba. Sarasota was incorporated as a town on 14 October 1902, coincidentally Gillespie's 50th birthday, and he went on to served as the Town's first Mayor. He was subsequently elected to five additional one-year terms.\n\nGillespie was instrumental in founding the Episcopal Church in Sarasota. He was ordained as a Deacon in the Episcopal Church and is acknowledged as the founder of The Church of the Redeemer Sarasota.\n\nHe is buried, alongside Blanche McDaniel Gillespie (his second wife), in the historic Rosemary Cemetery, Sarasota.\n"}
{"id": "26771365", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26771365", "title": "John Hung", "text": "John Hung\n\nJohn Terence Hung is a Hong Kong businessman, best known as former chairman of Wheelock & Co, and executive director of its subsidiary Wharf Holdings.\n\nJohn Hung's maternal grandfather was Sir Robert Hormus Kotewall and he is the step-son of M. C. Hung, who was the last compradore of Jardine, Matheson & Co. He attended Pui Ching Middle School to learn Chinese.\n\nHung held posts with various Wheelock-owned companies, including Cable TV Hong Kong (vice-chairman) and Cross-Harbour Holdings (executive director). He also served as chairman of the Hong Kong government's Sports Development Board. He was awarded a Silver Bauhinia Star in 1999. He retired in 2002. Following his retirement, he continued to work as a consultant.\n\nIn November 2008, Hung was arrested by Independent Commission Against Corruption officers outside of the Conrad Hotel at Pacific Place. In June 2009, a court found that Hung had accepted a HK$450,000 bribe in exchange for his support of Joanne Wong Pui's application for full membership in the Hong Kong Jockey Club, convicting him of one count of soliciting an advantage and three of accepting an advantage. He was sentenced to two years in prison and ordered to pay HK$350,000 to the HKJC; the judge gave him a mild sentence in light of his age and his \"past contributions to Hong Kong\". \n\nHe filed an appeal to have his conviction overturned; however, it was denied. The Court of Appeal stated that there was \"ample evidence\" of his guilt.\n\nHung's Silver Bauhinia Star (SBS) and Justice of the Peace (JP) were stripped following his convictions. This is the first time honours have been stripped since Hong Kong was handed over to China,\n"}
{"id": "245529", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=245529", "title": "Mandatory labelling", "text": "Mandatory labelling\n\nMandatory labelling or labeling (see spelling differences) is the requirement of consumer products to state their ingredients or components.\n\nMoral purchasing and problems like allergies are two things which are enabled by labelling. It is mandated in most developed nations, and increasingly in developing nations, especially for food products, \"e.g.\" \"Grade A\" meats. With regard to food and drugs, mandatory labelling has been a major battleground between consumer advocates and corporations since the late 19th century.\n\nBecause of past scandals involving deceptive labelling, countries like the United States and Canada require most processed foods to have a Nutrition facts label on the label, and the table's formatting and content must conform to strict guidelines. The European Union equivalent is the slightly different Nutrition information table, which may also be supplemented with standardized icons indicating the presence of allergens.\n\nIn China, all clothing is labelled with the factory of origin, including telephone and fax numbers, although this information is not available to buyers outside China, who see only a generic Made In China tag.\n\nThe development genetically modified food has led to one of the most persistent and divisive debates about the mandatory labelling, which is one of the central topics in genetically modified food controversies. Advocates of such labelling claim that the consumer should make the choice whether to expose themselves to any possible health risk from consuming such foods. Detractors point to studies that conclude genetically modified food is safe, and point out that for many commodity products, the identity of the grower and the custody chain are not known.\n\nVoluntary labelling and co-marketing of products deemed desirable is another matter usually carried out by entirely different means, \"e.g.\" Slow Food. There has been increased regulatory interest in substantiating these claims, and in some jurisdictions, food labels require regulatory approval before use.\n\nAn interesting halfway is those labels that are considered mandatory by one buying population and effectively preclude purchase if they are not there, e.g. kosher, vegan, and the aforementioned GMO-free label now seen on many organic products.\n\nAreas in which mandatory labelling is being discussed include:\n\n"}
{"id": "27010571", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27010571", "title": "Matthew Elderfield", "text": "Matthew Elderfield\n\nMatthew Elderfield (born 12 January 1966) was Deputy Governor and Head of Financial Regulation at the Central Bank of Ireland, a position sometimes referred to colloquial in Ireland as the Financial Regulator between January 2010 and October 2013. He is also the former chief executive of the Bermuda Monetary Authority (BMA).\n\nElderfield graduated from Cambridge University in 1988 with a master's degree in International relations, and earned a bachelor's degree in foreign service, cum laude, from the School of Foreign Service, Georgetown University in 1987.\n\nHe was at asked at a parliamentary committee \"In regard to baseline qualifications, if your staff is regulating the financial sector, should it not be the case where they should have the bare minimum required in the market as well, a qualified financial adviser status, or they've gone through certain industry exams. It's obviously important to have.\" But Mr Elderfield disagreed: \"I don't agree with that. But I think I'm conflicted because I've never taken a professional exam in my life.\"\n\nElderfield was chief executive of the Bermuda Monetary Authority (BMA, the financial services sector in Bermuda) from July 2007. During his two years as head of the financial regulator in Bermuda, Elderfield introduced reforms to strengthen the island's reputation for international insurance, banking and fund management. He strengthened regulation in Bermuda by significantly increasing staff numbers, expanding the BMA's learning and development programme, and introducing a scoring system for management.\n\nPrior to joining the BMA, Elderfield spent eight years at the UK Financial Services Authority (FSA) as a head of a number of departments responsible for exchange and clearing-house supervision of secondary markets, listing policy and for banking supervision. He was the official responsible for supervising Northern Rock in the months before the collapsed bank applied for its first bailout. He represented the FSA on the Basel Accord Implementation Group and chaired the FSA panel responsible for economic capital model review.\n\nBefore joining the FSA, Elderfield established the European operation of the International Swaps and Derivatives Association (ISDA) and held position at the London Investment Banking Association, the British Bankers Association and a Washington DC-based consultancy firm, the Institute for Strategy Development.\n\nElderfield earned an annual salary of €340,000 a year at the Central Bank of Ireland compared to a salary of $730,000 (€533,000) in Bermuda and was said to be at his desk from 7.30am to 7pm on weekdays while working a half-day on Sundays.\n\nElderfield was appointed in October 2009 by the Governor of the Central Bank, Patrick Honohan. He succeeded Patrick Neary, who retired early over the handling of the regulator's investigation into the €87 million in secret directors' loans at Anglo Irish Bank. Minister for Finance, Brian Lenihan welcomed his appointment, saying: \"The appointment of Mr Elderfield, particularly given his extensive international regulatory experience, is a key step in the restructuring of financial services regulation in Ireland.\" He took up his position in January 2010. He has been tasked with the rebuilding of the financial regulators function and restoring its reputation, overseeing the recapitalisation of the banks, helping to wean them off the funding support of Government guarantees, match Ireland's regulatory changes with the raft of measures coming internationally, and strike a measured balance in his approach to maintain a competitive position for the Irish financial services sector at a global level. Mr Elderfield said he intended to pursue a policy of 'assertive' regulation, backed up by the credible threat of enforcement. An Irish Times poll suggests that he is meeting success in restoring credibility to the Financial Regulators office with 68% responding positively. In April 2010 he said that there was \"critical absence of intellectual firepower within his staff\"\n\nFollowing the transfer of loans to NAMA at the end of March 2010, the regulator's office announced under the Government's guarantee scheme must now meet a core equity ratio of 8 per cent by the end of 2010. This is to ensure that they can withstand future losses.\n\nOn 30 March 2010, following an application by the Financial Regulator's office, the High Court appointed joint provisional administrators to Quinn Insurance Limited, part of the Quinn Group of companies. According to the Irish Independent, eight subsidiaries of Quinn Insurance provided guarantees of €1.2bn to cover Quinn Group's debts, prompting the regulator to seek the appointment of provisional administrators in the High Court. The Quinn Group took action to counter the moves by the Financial Regulator, mobilising its employees into street protests, financial discussions with its creditors, in an effort to seek a resolution to the uncertainty created by the appointment of provisional administrators to Quinn Insurance. On 15 April 2010, the Irish Times reported that Quinn Insurance decided not to fight the appointment of a permanent administrator. This was following a direct challenge by Elderfield to the groups owner, Irelands former richest man, Sean Quinn, to \"Show me the money\" that would have solved the financial difficulties.\n\nHe is a British citizen and is married. His interests are cycling, Leeds United, music and lives in Sandymount, Dublin.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9507953", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9507953", "title": "MicroVacuum", "text": "MicroVacuum\n\nMicroVacuum Ltd. is a Hungarian biotechnology company based in Budapest. MicroVacuum is a global supplier of label-free biosensor systems for the life-science research market to provide real-time, label free detection and characterization of surface adsorption. \n\nMicroVacuum develops, manufactures, and markets the OWLS label-free, real-time biosensor system based on the grating coupler waveguide technology. The OW optical sensors and OWLS analytical system allow the determination of the affinity and kinetics of a wide variety of molecular interactions in real time, without the need for a molecular tag or label. \n\nApplications include protein quantification, classification of protein-protein and protein-DNA interactions, drug screening, and immunosensing. \n\nThe main biosensing applications of the OWLS technology are as follows:\n\n\nhttp://www.owls-sensors.com\n"}
{"id": "36952888", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36952888", "title": "Mohammed Shehadeh", "text": "Mohammed Shehadeh\n\nDr. Mohammed Shehadeh a Civil Engineer, is the Senior Vice President of UNIBETON READY MIX. He is a graduate in Civil Engineering from Florida State University, USA and Doctorate in Engineering by Dalhousie University, Canada. He introduced SCC (Self Compacting Concrete ) for the first time in the UAE, and the Green Concrete or low carbon emission concrete in the UAE Market. He also introduced real time rheology which can measure, temperature, slump, equivalent normal pressures at different drum speed, yield of concrete and viscosity without the interference of humans this along with GPS system can be recorded for future analysis saving thousands of cubic meter of concrete which otherwise wasted in carrying out these tests. Implementation of new shotcrete methods to UAE market due to its many significant sustainability advantages on formwork, labour, speed and savings of 33-50% over conventional cast-in-place construction. His hobbies are farming and horse riding.\n\n"}
{"id": "47325920", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47325920", "title": "Patricia C. Frist", "text": "Patricia C. Frist\n\nPatricia C. Frist is an American businesswoman and philanthropist from Tennessee.\n\nPatricia Champion Frist was born as Patricia Champion.\n\nFrist served as the President of Frist Capital, an investment firm. She served on the Board of Directors of SunTrust Bank from 2000 to 2010.\n\nShe serves on the Board of Trustees of the Frist Foundation. Additionally, she serves on the Boards of Directors of the Friends of Warner Park. She also serves as an honorary trustee of the Harpeth Hall School.\n\nThe Patricia Champion Frist Hall on the campus of Vanderbilt University in Nashville was renamed in her honor in 1998; it houses the School of Nursing.\n\nShe is a large donor to the Republican Party. In 1997, she donated US$100,000 to the Republican National Committee.\n\nShe is married to Thomas F. Frist, Jr., a billionaire who co-founded the Hospital Corporation of America. They reside in Belle Meade, Tennessee. They have two sons, Thomas F. Frist, III and William R. Frist, and a daughter, Patricia Frist Elan, who is married to investor Charles A. Elcan.\n"}
{"id": "38630475", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38630475", "title": "Paul C. P. McIlhenny", "text": "Paul C. P. McIlhenny\n\nPaul C. P. McIlhenny (March 19, 1944 – February 23, 2013) was an American businessman and executive at family-owned McIlhenny Company, maker of Tabasco sauce and other Tabasco brand products at Avery Island, Louisiana.\n\nAlthough strongly associated with Louisiana, particularly Avery Island and New Orleans, McIlhenny was born in Houston, Texas. He joined Tabasco operations in 1967, serving over the years in many different departments of the company. He spearheaded the idea of selling Tabasco-branded items, such as T-shirts, watches, aprons, golf balls, salt shakers, and neckties. \n\nMcIlhenny became president of McIlhenny Company in 1998 and remained in the post until 2012, when he stepped down to replace his late cousin, Edward \"Ned\" McIlhenny Simmons, as Chairman of the Board. McIlhenny retained the office of CEO, however, while another cousin, Tony Simmons, became president and COO.\n\nUnder his leadership the business experienced several consecutive years of record growth in sales, earnings and dividends to family shareholders. \n\nMcIlhenny died in New Orleans, Louisiana, on February 23, 2013.\n"}
{"id": "45314810", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45314810", "title": "Progress Pledge/Bretton Woods II", "text": "Progress Pledge/Bretton Woods II\n\nThe Bretton Woods II initiative works with very large, long-term asset holders to reduce their exposure to risk and volatility through strategic investments in social impact and development. The initiative has three main components:\n\n1) Participants dedicate a percentage of their assets to social impact investment and development finance.\n\n2) These resources are focused on countries that adopt basic standards of accountability, transparency, and citizen engagement with the goal of encouraging better governance.\n\n3) Participants support regulatory reforms developed by the G-8 Social Impact Investment Task Force and National Advisory Boards on Impact Investment. These changes eliminate red tape around impact investment and incentivize asset holders to direct resources toward projects that provide broader benefits to society.\n\nPension funds, charitable endowments, and sovereign wealth funds control over $25 trillion in assets worldwide. As investors, these groups share two key attributes: first, they have unusually long time horizons. Pension liabilities extend across decades, and endowments and sovereign wealth funds are often designed to operate in perpetuity. Second, the holdings of these investors span every region and sector. They are too big and too broadly diversified to hide from market volatility. When the world economy prospers, their assets grow. Conversely, when world markets falter, it undermines the ability of these investors to realize their long-term financial objectives.\n\nAsset holders in these groups derive significant benefits from reductions in market volatility. However, despite the fact that large asset holders clearly benefit from reduced volatility and related improvements in the investment climate, they rarely use their assets to influence these variables. The core of the Bretton Woods II initiative is the reality that large, long-term asset holders can use their investment strategies to shape a landscape that will be more conducive to stability, prosperity, and sustainability.\n\nDr. Tomicah Tillemann, who previously served as Senior Advisor to Hillary Clinton, John Kerry, and Joe Biden, directs the initiative from the New America Foundation. The Pledge has drawn support from a broad range of leaders and experts at organizations in civil society and the private sector including Bono's ONE Campaign, the United Nations Foundation, the Center for Global Development, the Aspen Institute, the State Department, and the World Bank.\n\nThe Bretton Woods II initiative brings together large asset holders around three goals designed to address this opportunity:\n\n1) Investors dedicate at least 1% of their assets or profits to social impact investment, development finance, or civil society support.\n\n2) These resources are focused on countries that adopt basic standards of governance, accountability, and citizen engagement. CalPERS, the largest non-federal pension fund in the United States, has pioneered similar guidelines. A version of these rules would be developed to serve the needs of a broader array of investors. This effort will create a multibillion-dollar incentive for good governance and citizen engagement grounded in successful principles in use by the Millennium Challenge Corporation.\n\n3) Providing support for regulatory reforms developed by the G-8 Social Impact Investment Task Force and National Advisory Boards on Impact Investment. These changes will eliminate red tape around impact investment and incentivize asset holders to direct resources toward projects that provide broader benefits to society.\n\nA large consortium of organizations working with the New America Foundation have joined the effort to build out the analytical case for impact investment, assess potential returns from different impact investment strategies, and develop metrics for gauging impact. The partners are working to demonstrate that asset holders have both a vested interest and a fiduciary obligation to pursue impact investments that reduce market volatility, improve governance, and advance Sustainable Development Goals.\n"}
{"id": "33987363", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33987363", "title": "Return on event", "text": "Return on event\n\nWhat is ROE (Return on event) and how is it used.\n\nReturn on event (ROE) is a term used in event marketing, compared to rate of return ROR, also known as return on investment ROI, which is the ratio of money gained or lost on an investment.\n\nThe initial value of an investment does not always have a clearly defined monetary value. In event marketing the purpose of an event can be awareness of a new product, trials, brand commitment, brand building, or combinations of these.\nSimilarly, the final value of an investment does not always have a clearly defined monetary value, but can add value to a brand instead of contributing to sales volume.\n\nCalculating your return on event (ROE):\nBesides the clearly defined value above, an event can for example contribute in social media by gaining “likes” or followers on Facebook, Twitter, and similar, connecting to the existing “fans” and or followers on Facebook, Twitter, etc.\nReturn on event is also a valuable tool in the sales phase, and should be implemented before the event, to set goals and guidelines for the event. Event marketing companies can use return on event to analyze and present to the client, facts, estimated contacts, contact price etc., before the proposed event.\nReturn on event after the event will be clearly defined, and can be used by the client to show the impact of the event.\n\n"}
{"id": "6004336", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6004336", "title": "Richard Thurmond Chatham", "text": "Richard Thurmond Chatham\n\nRichard Thurmond Chatham (August 16, 1896 – February 5, 1957), who usually went by Thurmond Chatham, was a member of the U.S. House of Representatives, an industrialist and philanthropist. He represented North Carolina from 1949 to 1957.\n\nBorn in Elkin, North Carolina, Chatham was the only son of Hugh Gwyn and Martha Lenoir Chatham. His grandfather was Alexander Chatham, founder of Chatham Manufacturing Company. Chatham was educated in the public schools and at Woodberry Forest School in Orange, Virginia. He attended the University of North Carolina from 1915–1916 and Yale University from 1916–1917, but left college to enter the United States Navy. He served in the Navy until 1919.\n\nIn July 1919, Chatham began working for his family's company, Chatham Manufacturing, which was the world's largest manufacturer of blankets. After serving as treasurer of the company, he became president in 1929 and chairman of the board of directors in 1945. During his presidency, the company experienced considerable growth.\n\nHe served from February 1942 to November 1945, as an officer on the USS Phoenix (CL-46) in the Southwest Pacific and Atlantic. He was\ndecorated With the Bronze Star Medal, the Secretary of the Navy's Commendation Medal, and the Royal Order of Orange-Nassau with Swords from the Dutch Government and earned the American Theater Ribbon, European Theater Ribbon, Asiatic Theater Ribbon with three battle stars, World War I Ribbon, and Victory Ribbon. He continued his service in the Naval Reserve, and\nin 1950 was appointed a Captain.\n\nWith his only previous political experience as a county commissioner in Forsyth County, North Carolina, Chatham was unsuccessful in his 1946 bid for the Democratic nomination for Congress. He was first elected in 1948 and re-elected three more times.\n\nWhile in Congress, he was a member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee and was an advocate of recognition of China and support for the Marshall Plan.\n\nNotably, he did not sign the Southern Manifesto in 1956. As a result, Chatham lost the Democratic Party primary to Ralph James Scott.\n\nChatham was a trustee of the University of North Carolina and of Woodberry Forest School; president of the Winston-Salem Chamber of Commerce; and a member of the National Association of Wool Manufacturers, the American Legion, and the Veterans of Foreign Wars. In 1948, he served on the North Carolina Board of Conservation and Development and was president of the North Carolina Dairymen's Association.\n\nIn 1919, Chatham married Lucy Hodgin Hanes (1895–1949), daughter of John Wesley Hanes. The couple had two sons, Hugh Gwyn II and Richard Thurmond, Jr. After Lucy died, Chatham married Patricia Firestone Coyner in 1950. In 1951 the couple purchased and remodeled Prospect House. The couple had one son, Walter Firestone, born in 1952. Chatham died in Durham, North Carolina and was buried in the Salem Cemetery in Winston-Salem, North Carolina. His estate was valued at almost $2,000,000, of which $250,000 was used to establish the Chatham Foundation, a charitable trust supporting education.\n\nThe Thurmond and Lucy Chatham House at Winston-Salem was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 2014.\n\nBiography uses material from: Biographical Note, Southern Historical Collection, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill\n\n"}
{"id": "37630207", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37630207", "title": "Roberto Duailibi", "text": "Roberto Duailibi\n\nRoberto Duailibi (born October 8, 1935 in Campo Grande, Brazil), is a Brazilian advertising executive.\n\nGraduated in advertising from Escola de Propaganda de São Paulo in 1956, Roberto Duailibi became a publicist. He initiated his career in advertising in 1952, at the Colgate-Palmolive company. From 1956, he worked as copywriter in advertising agencies such as CIN - Companhia de Incremento de Negócios (now Leo Burnett Publicidade Ltda), JWT, McCann Ericson and Standard Propaganda, where he was Creative vice-president.\n\nIn 1968, he joined José Zaragoza, Francesc Petit and Ronald Persichetti to create DPZ, one of the largest and most awarded advertising agencies in Brazil. He was awarded the \"Advertiser of the Year\" in 1969 in Prêmio Colunistas. <br>\nIn addition to the recognition and awards as advertising executive, Roberto Duailibi is a writer and professor . He was professor and course director at ESPM of São Paulo and is currently dean in the Institution Council. He was also Creative professor at ECA - Escola de Comunicações e Artes of USP - Universidade de São Paulo.<br> For two periods, he was chairman at ABAP, the Brazilian Association of Advertising Agencies. He is advisor of Fundação Bienal de São Paulo, Fundo Social de Solidariedade of the São Paulo State Government and Chairman at FUNCEB - Fundação Cultural Exército Brasileiro.\n\nHe wrote several books, among which is Criatividade & Marketing, with Harry Simonsen Jr.. This book showed the concept of the heuristic ruler and the importance to follow methods encouraging creativity across the company’s departments. In addition to Criatividade & Marketing, he was very successful with his quote collections initially called Phrase Book. In 2005, he published Cartas a um Jovem Publicitário, a book directed to the young advertising professionals. In 2008, he published with Marina Pechlivanis the collection Idéias Poderosas, gathering thematic selections of quotations in a pocket book. In the same year, he also launched the new edition of Criatividade & Marketing, with a digital version of the Heuristic Ruler.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4544815", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4544815", "title": "Rosemary Stewart (business theorist)", "text": "Rosemary Stewart (business theorist)\n\nRosemary Stewart is widely known for her extensive writings on managerial work and behaviour. Her career has been in management research and teaching, combined with managing for seven years. She received a doctorate from the London School of Economics, and Uppsala University in Sweden has granted her the Honorary Degree of Doctor of Philosophy.\n\nFormerly a Fellow in Organisational Behaviour at Templeton College, Oxford, she is now an Honorary Fellow at the same college. Her research has covered a wide range of subjects and organisations in industry, commerce and the National Health Service England and Wales, NHS. Her main research interests are in managerial work and behaviour and management in the NHS. She has run workshops for many years for NHS chief executives and, currently, for chairs. She has lectured in many parts of the world.\n\nRosemary Stewart is author of more than a dozen books on management and edited books and numerous articles in academic and practitioner journals. Areas: general management, managerial behaviour, health care management.\n\nRosemary Stewart, born in London, England in 1924, died in Oxford in 2015.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25057875", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25057875", "title": "Rotterdam Rules", "text": "Rotterdam Rules\n\nThe \"Rotterdam Rules\" (formally, the United Nations Convention on Contracts for the International Carriage of Goods Wholly or Partly by Sea) is a treaty proposing new international rules to revise the legal framework for maritime affreightment and carriage of goods by sea. The Rules primarily address the legal relationship between carriers and cargo-owners. As of October 2015, the Rules are not yet in force as they have been ratified by only three states.\n\nThe aim of the convention is to extend and modernize existing international rules and achieve uniformity of International trade law in the field of maritime carriage, updating or replacing many provisions in the Hague Rules, Hague-Visby Rules and Hamburg Rules. The convention establishes a comprehensive, uniform legal regime governing the rights and obligations of shippers, carriers and consignees under a contract for door-to-door shipments that involve international sea transport.\n\nThe Hague Rules of 1924 were updated in 1968 to become the Hague-Visby Rules, but the changes were modest. The modified convention still covered only \"tackle to tackle\" carriage contracts, with no provision for multimodal transport. The industry-changing phenomenon of containerization was barely acknowledged. The 1978 Hamburg Rules were introduced to provide a framework that was both more modern, and less biased in favour of ship operators. Although the Hamburg Rules were readily adopted by developing countries, the new convention was shunned by richer countries who stuck with Hague and Hague-Visby. It had been expected that a Hague/Hamburg compromise might arise, but instead the vast (96 articles) Rotterdam Rules appeared.\n\nThe final draft of the Rotterdam Rules, which was assembled by the United Nations Commission on International Trade Law, was adopted by the United Nations on 11 December 2008, and a signing ceremony was held in Rotterdam on 23 September 2009. Signatories included the United States, France, Greece, Denmark, Switzerland and the Netherlands; in all, signatures were obtained from countries said to make up 25 percent of world trade by volume. Signatures were allowed after the ceremony at the U.N. Headquarters in New York City, United States.\n\nThe World Shipping Council is a prominent supporter of the Rotterdam Rules. In 2010, the American Bar Association House of Delegates approved a resolution supporting U.S. ratification of the Rotterdam Rules.\n\nThe following are critical provisions and law changes found in the Rotterdam Rules:\n\nThe Rotterdam Rules will enter into effect a year after 20 countries have ratified that treaty. As of 9 August 2011, there were 24 signatories to the treaty. The most recent country to sign the treaty was Sweden, which signed on 20 July 2011. Spain was the first country to ratify the convention in January 2011. An overview of signatures and ratifications is shown below:\n\nUpon entry into force of the convention for a country, it should denounce the conventions governing the Hague-Visby Rules as well as the Hamburg Rules as the convention does not come into effect without such denouncements.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47683945", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47683945", "title": "Sabine Getty", "text": "Sabine Getty\n\nSabine Getty (née Ghanem) is a Swiss-born English jewelry designer and socialite.\n\nGhanem was born and raised in Geneva, Switzerland. Her father is a Lebanese financier and her Egyptian mother, Karine Ratl, is an interior decorator. Ghanem speaks English, French and Arabic. She studied theatre and opera before switching to design. She graduated from the Gemological Institute of America in 2012 before moving to London.\n\nHer jewelry line \"Sabine G.\", is based in London and sold at Bergdorf Goodman in New York, Maxfield in Los Angeles, Browns in London, Montaigne Market in Paris, and in stores in Monaco, Vienna, and Beirut\n\nGhanem married Joseph Getty, son of Mark Getty and Domitilla Harding and a grandson of Sir John Paul Getty, in 2015 in a Catholic ceremony at the Basilica of the Twelve Apostles in Rome. Her dress was a custom made haute couture gown by Schiaparelli with a hooded cloak designed by Lesage and Charlotte Olympia heels.\n\nWedding guests included Princess Elisabeth von Thurn und Taxis, Princess Beatrice of York, Ginevra Elkann, Charlotte Olympia Dellal, Pierre Casiraghi, Julia Restoin Roitfeld, and Donna Bianca Brandolini d’Adda. A party celebrating the wedding celebrations was hosted at the Palazzo Taverna. The wedding reception was held at the Castle Odescalchi.\n\nIn 2017 Getty gave birth to a daughter, Gene Honor Getty.\n"}
{"id": "56194903", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56194903", "title": "Sherman Kwek", "text": "Sherman Kwek\n\nEik Tse \"Sherman\" Kwek (born 1975/76) is a Singaporean businessman, and the CEO of City Developments Limited since January 2018.\n\nSherman Kwek earned a bachelor's degree in business administration from Boston University.\n\nIn August 2017, Kwek, then deputy CEO, became CEO-designate after the then CEO Grant Kelley resigned after three and a half years in the role, and left at the end of 2017.\n\nIn January 2018, he became the CEO of City Developments Limited.\n"}
{"id": "39314735", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39314735", "title": "Thomas Clydesdale", "text": "Thomas Clydesdale\n\nThomas Clydesdale, JP (1934, Edinburgh, Scotland – 2007) was a former member of the Legislative Council of Hong Kong.\n\nClydesdale was born and brought up in Edinburgh, Scotland. He attended George Heriot's School and the University of Edinburgh. He became a certificated public accountant and member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Scotland. He was also a fellow of the Hong Kong Society of Accountants and the president of the Society in 1982. Clydesdale was an accountant with Lowe Bingham & Matthews (now PricewaterhouseCoopers) from 1959 until he retired as senior partner in 1989.\n\nHe was the president of the Hong Kong General Chamber of Commerce between 1986 and 1987 and Chamber's representative in the Legislative Council through the Commercial (First) functional constituency.\n"}
{"id": "35759841", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35759841", "title": "Tomislav Damnjanovic", "text": "Tomislav Damnjanovic\n\nTomislav Damnjanovic is a Serbian businessman and arms smuggler. A former employee of Yugoslavia's national airline, Damnjanovic founded his own company transporting supplies aboard an Ilyushin Il-76 freight carrier. With increasing United Nations sanctions on Yugoslavian airlines, he began to expand his operations into illegal smuggling. He attained notoriety in 2002 when, while contracted to deliver \"millions of rounds of ammunition, guns, grenades and mortars\" to aid the US military during the ongoing War In Iraq and War in Afghanistan, United Nations officials investigating his previous activities discovered a 15 year history of weapons deals with Libyan, Liberian, Republic of the Congo officials as well as Al Qaeda-linked Islamist groups in Somalia and other smuggling deals backed Yugoslav president Slobodan Milosevic. The United Nations claimed that in 2006, 45 tons of supplies were sold to the Islamic Courts Union at the same time as Damnjanovic was contracted to supply US forces. \n\nThough the investigation is still on going, its revelations called into question the United States's efforts to track smugglers, and he \"profiling system\" used to check the backgrounds of potential arms dealers. In 2007, a United Nations case study on Damnjanovic referred to him as an \"invisible arms trafficker\", claiming that he \"worked outside the law. transporting weapons for US companies and weapons manufacturers based in America while at the same time using chartered flights in Africa and the Middle East in illegal operations to supply, among others, Saddam Hussein, Charles Taylor, the Burma military junta, Muammar Gaddafi and Islamic militants in Mogadishu. Damnjanovic was linked to other arms dealers such as Victor Bout.\n"}
{"id": "11098106", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11098106", "title": "Vladimir Kim", "text": "Vladimir Kim\n\nVladimir Sergeyevich Kim (; born 29 October 1960) is a Kazakhstani businessman and billionaire.\n\nVladimir Kim was born in 1960. He is of Korean ethnicity: his family, among other Koreans and among many other ethnic minorities within the USSR, had been forcibly relocated to Kazakhstan, during the Stalinist era. He graduated from the Kazakh Leading Academy of Architecture and Civil Engineering (then known as the Alma-Ata Architectural Institute) in 1982 with a degree in civil engineering. He holds an MBA degree and received his PhD in business and administrative management at the John F. Kennedy University in California in 1998.\n\nIn 1995, Kim was appointed managing director and chief executive officer of Zhezkazgantsvetmet JSC, Kazakhmys' core subsidiary at the time; he was elected chairman of the board of directors of Zhezkazgantsvetmet in 2000, and Chairman of Kazakhmys upon its listing on the London Stock Exchange in October 2005. Kim stepped down as chairman of Kazakhmys in May 2013 to become a non-executive director. Following the completion of the Group restructuring in 2014, Kim remained a non-executive director and a major shareholder in KAZ Minerals PLC.\n\nKAZ Minerals PLC is a mining company quoted on the London Stock Exchange, Hong Kong Stock Exchange and Kazakhstan Stock Exchange.\n\nHe holds approximately 33% of KAZ Minerals.\n\nAccording to \"Forbes\" magazine, as of March 2011, he is the richest person in Kazakhstan, and the 223rd richest in the world, with an estimated wealth of US$4.7 billion. \n\nHe is married, and has three children. He resides in Almaty, Kazakhstan.\n"}
