{"id": "59042507", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59042507", "title": "Access to Health Records Act 1990", "text": "Access to Health Records Act 1990\n\nThe Access to Health Records Act 1990 (c.23) is an Act of the Parliament of the United Kingdom which applies to people in England, Wales and Scotland. \n\nIt entitles patients, and in some cases their representatives, to inspect their own records, and if necessary to an explanation of terms which are not intelligible without explanation. Access can be withheld if it would be likely to cause serious harm to the physical or mental health of anyone, or to identify anyone other than the patient.\n"}
{"id": "940405", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=940405", "title": "Albert von Kölliker", "text": "Albert von Kölliker\n\nAlbert von Kölliker (born \"Rudolf Albert Kölliker;\" 6 July 18172 November 1905) was a Swiss anatomist, physiologist, and histologist.\n\nAlbert Kölliker was born in Zurich, Switzerland. His early education was carried on in Zurich, and he entered the university there in 1836. After two years, however, he moved to the University of Bonn, and later to that of Berlin, becoming a pupil of noted physiologists Johannes Peter Müller and of Friedrich Gustav Jakob Henle. He graduated in philosophy at Zurich in 1841, and in medicine at Heidelberg in 1842. The first academic post which he held was that of prosector of anatomy under Henle, but his tenure of this office was briefin 1844 he returned to Zurich University to occupy a chair as professor extraordinary of physiology and comparative anatomy. His stay here was also brief; in 1847 the University of Würzburg, attracted by his rising fame, offered him the post of professor of physiology and of microscopical and comparative anatomy. He accepted the appointment, and at Würzburg he remained thenceforth, refusing all offers tempting him to leave the quiet academic life of the Bavarian town, where he died.\n\nAt Zurich, and afterwards at Würzburg, the title of the chair which Kölliker held laid upon him the duty of teaching comparative anatomy. Many of the numerous memoirs which he published, (including the very first paper he wrote) and which appeared in 1841, before he graduated, were on the structure of animals of the most varied kinds. Notable among these were his papers on the \"Medusae\" and allied creatures. His activity in this direction led him to make zoological excursions to the Mediterranean Sea and to the coasts of Scotland, as well as to undertake, conjointly with his friend Carl Theodor Ernst von Siebold, the editorship of the \"Zeitschrift für Wissenschaftliche Zoologie\", which, founded in 1848, continued under his hands to be one of the most important zoological periodicals.\n\nHis hand was one of the first to be x-rayed, by his friend Wilhelm Roentgen.\n\nKölliker made contributions to the study of zoology. His earlier efforts were directed to the invertebrates, and his memoir on the development of cephalopods (which appeared in 1844) is considered a classical work. He soon passed on to the vertebrates, and studied the amphibians and mammalian embryos. He was among the first, if not the very first, to introduce into this branch of biological inquiry the newer microscopic technique – the methods of hardening, sectioning and staining. By doing so, not only was he enabled to make rapid progress himself, but he also placed in the hands of others the means of a similar advancement. The remarkable strides forward which embryology made during the middle and latter half of the 19th century will always be associated with his name. His \"Lectures on Development\", published in 1861, at once became a standard work.\n\nBut neither zoology nor embryology furnished Kölliker's chief claim to fame. If he did much for these branches of science, he did still more for histology, the knowledge of the minute structure of the animal tissues. Among his earlier results was the demonstration in 1847 that smooth or unstriated muscle is made up of distinct units, of nucleated muscle cells. In this work, he followed in the footsteps of his master Henle. A few years before this, there was doubt whether arteries had muscle in their walls – in addition, no solid histological basis as yet existed for those views as to the action of the nervous system on the circulation, which were soon to be put forward, and which had such a great influence on the progress of physiology.\n\nKölliker's contributions to histology were widespread; smooth muscle, striated muscle, skin, bone, teeth, blood vessels and viscera were all investigated by Kölliker, and he touched none of them without discovering new truths. The results at which he arrived were recorded partly in separate memoirs, partly in his great textbook on microscopical anatomy, which first saw the light in 1850, and by which he advanced histology no less than by his own researches.\n\nAlbert L. Lehninger asserted that Kölliker was among the first to notice the arrangement of granules in the sarcoplasm of striated muscle over a period of years beginning around 1850. These granules were later called sarcosomes by Retzius in 1890. These sarcosomes have come to be known as the mitochondria-the power houses of the cell. In the words of Lehninger, \"Kölliker should also be credited with the first separation of mitochondria from cell structure. In 1888 he teased these granules from insect muscle, in which they are very profuse, found them to swell in water, and showed them to possess a membrane.\"\n\nIn the case of almost every tissue, our present knowledge contains information first discovered by Kölliker – it is for his work on the nervous system that his name is most remembered. As early as 1845, while still at Zurich, he supplied the clear proof that nerve fibers are continuous with nerve cells, and so furnished the absolutely necessary basis for all sound speculations as to the actions of the central nervous system.\n\nFrom that time onward he continually laboured at the histology of the nervous system, and more especially at the difficult problems presented by the intricate patterns in which nerve fibers and neurons are woven together in the brain and spinal cord. From his early days a master of method, he saw at a glance the value of the new Golgi staining method for the investigation of the central nervous system, and, to the great benefit of science, took up once more in his old age, with the aid of a new means, the studies for which he had done so much in his youth. Kölliker contributed greatly to knowledge of the inner structure of the brain.\n\nKölliker was ennobled by Prince Regent Luitpold of Bavaria in 1897 and thus permitted to add the predicate \"von\" to his surname. He was made a member of the learned societies of many countries; in England, which he visited more than once, and where he became well known, the Royal Society made him a fellow in 1860, and in 1897 gave him its highest token of esteem, the Copley medal.\n\nA species of lizard, \"Hyalosaurus koellikeri\", is named in his honor.\n\nIn 1864 Kölliker revived Étienne Geoffroy Saint-Hilaire's theory that evolution proceeds by large steps (saltationism), under the name of heterogenesis. Kölliker was a critic of Darwinism and rejected a universal common ancestor, instead he supported a theory of common descent along separate lines. According to Alexander Vucinich the non-Darwinian evolution theory of Kölliker tied \"organic transformism to three general ideas, all contrary to Darwin's view: the multiple origin of living forms, the internal causes of variation, and \"sudden leaps\" (heterogenesis) in the evolutionary process.\"\nKölliker claimed that heterogenesis functioned according to a general law of evolutionary progress, orthogenesis.\n\n"}
{"id": "174069", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=174069", "title": "Asteroid impact avoidance", "text": "Asteroid impact avoidance\n\nAsteroid impact avoidance comprises a number of methods by which near-Earth objects (NEO) could be diverted, preventing destructive impact events. A sufficiently large impact by an asteroid or other NEOs would cause, depending on its impact location, massive tsunamis, multiple firestorms and an impact winter caused by the sunlight-blocking effect of placing large quantities of pulverized rock dust, and other debris, into the stratosphere.\n\nA collision between the Earth and an approximately -wide object 66 million years ago is thought to have produced the Chicxulub crater and the Cretaceous–Paleogene extinction event, widely held responsible for the extinction of most dinosaurs.\n\nWhile the chances of a major collision are low in the near term, there is a high probability that one will happen eventually unless defensive actions are taken. Recent astronomical events—such as the Shoemaker-Levy 9 impacts on Jupiter and the 2013 Chelyabinsk meteor, along with the growing number of objects on the Sentry Risk Table—have drawn renewed attention to such threats. NASA warns that the Earth is unprepared for such an event.\n\nIn April 2018, the B612 Foundation reported \"It's 100 per cent certain we'll be hit [by a devastating asteroid], but we're not 100 per cent sure when.\" Also in 2018, physicist Stephen Hawking,\nin his final book \"Brief Answers to the Big Questions\", considered an asteroid collision to be the biggest threat to the planet. In June 2018, the US National Science and Technology Council warned that America is unprepared for an asteroid impact event, and has developed and released the \"National Near-Earth Object Preparedness Strategy Action Plan\" to better prepare. According to expert testimony in the United States Congress in 2013, NASA would require at least five years of preparation before a mission to intercept an asteroid could be launched.\n\nMost deflection efforts for a large object require from a year to decades of warning, allowing time to prepare and carry out a collision avoidance project, as no known planetary defense hardware has yet been developed. It has been estimated that a velocity change of just (where t is the number of years until potential impact) is needed to successfully deflect a body on a direct collision trajectory. In addition, under certain circumstances, much smaller velocity changes are needed. For example, it was estimated there was a high chance of 99942 Apophis swinging by Earth in 2029 with a 10 probability of passing through a 'keyhole' and returning on an impact trajectory in 2035 or 2036. It was then determined that a deflection from this potential return trajectory, several years before the swing-by, could be achieved with a velocity change on the order of 10 ms.\n\nAn impact by a asteroid on the Earth has historically caused an extinction-level event due to catastrophic damage to the biosphere. There is also the threat from comets entering the inner Solar System. The impact speed of a long-period comet would likely be several times greater than that of a near-Earth asteroid, making its impact much more destructive; in addition, the warning time is unlikely to be more than a few months. Impacts from objects as small as in diameter, which are far more common, are historically extremely destructive regionally (see Barringer crater).\n\nFinding out the material composition of the object is also helpful before deciding which strategy is appropriate. Missions like the 2005 \"Deep Impact\" probe have provided valuable information on what to expect.\n\nThe 1992 NASA-sponsored Near-Earth-Object Interception Workshop hosted by Los Alamos National Laboratory evaluated issues involved in intercepting celestial objects that could hit Earth. In a 1992 report to NASA, a coordinated Spaceguard Survey was recommended to discover, verify and provide follow-up observations for Earth-crossing asteroids. This survey was expected to discover 90% of these objects larger than one kilometer within 25 years. Three years later, another NASA report recommended search surveys that would discover 60–70% of short-period, near-Earth objects larger than one kilometer within ten years and obtain 90% completeness within five more years.\n\nIn 1998, NASA formally embraced the goal of finding and cataloging, by 2008, 90% of all near-Earth objects (NEOs) with diameters of 1 km or larger that could represent a collision risk to Earth. The 1 km diameter metric was chosen after considerable study indicated that an impact of an object smaller than 1 km could cause significant local or regional damage but is unlikely to cause a worldwide catastrophe. The impact of an object much larger than 1 km diameter could well result in worldwide damage up to, and potentially including, extinction of the human species. The NASA commitment has resulted in the funding of a number of NEO search efforts, which made considerable progress toward the 90% goal by 2008. However the 2009 discovery of several NEOs approximately 2 to 3 kilometers in diameter (e.g. , , , and ) demonstrated there were still large objects to be detected.\n\nUnited States Representative George E. Brown, Jr. (D-CA) was quoted as voicing his support for planetary defense projects in \"Air & Space Power Chronicles\", saying \"If some day in the future we discover well in advance that an asteroid that is big enough to cause a mass extinction is going to hit the Earth, and then we alter the course of that asteroid so that it does not hit us, it will be one of the most important accomplishments in all of human history.\"\n\nBecause of Congressman Brown's long-standing commitment to planetary defense, a U.S. House of Representatives' bill, H.R. 1022, was named in his honor: The George E. Brown, Jr. Near-Earth Object Survey Act. This bill \"to provide for a Near-Earth Object Survey program to detect, track, catalogue, and characterize certain near-Earth asteroids and comets\" was introduced in March 2005 by Rep. Dana Rohrabacher (R-CA). It was eventually rolled into S.1281, the NASA Authorization Act of 2005, passed by Congress on December 22, 2005, subsequently signed by the President, and stating in part:\n\nThe U.S. Congress has declared that the general welfare and security of the United States require that the unique competence of NASA be directed to detecting, tracking, cataloguing, and characterizing near-Earth asteroids and comets in order to provide warning and mitigation of the potential hazard of such near-Earth objects to the Earth. The NASA Administrator shall plan, develop, and implement a Near-Earth Object Survey program to detect, track, catalogue, and characterize the physical characteristics of near- Earth objects equal to or greater than 140 meters in diameter in order to assess the threat of such near-Earth objects to the Earth. It shall be the goal of the Survey program to achieve 90% completion of its near-Earth object catalogue (based on statistically predicted populations of near-Earth objects) within 15 years after the date of enactment of this Act. The NASA Administrator shall transmit to Congress not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act an initial report that provides the following: (A) An analysis of possible alternatives that NASA may employ to carry out the Survey program, including ground-based and space-based alternatives with technical descriptions. (B) A recommended option and proposed budget to carry out the Survey program pursuant to the recommended option. (C) Analysis of possible alternatives that NASA could employ to divert an object on a likely collision course with Earth.\n\nThe result of this directive was a report presented to Congress in early March 2007. This was an Analysis of Alternatives (AoA) study led by NASA's Program Analysis and Evaluation (PA&E) office with support from outside consultants, the Aerospace Corporation, NASA Langley Research Center (LaRC), and SAIC (amongst others).\n\nSee also Improving impact prediction.\n\nThe Minor Planet Center in Cambridge, Massachusetts has been cataloging the orbits of asteroids and comets since 1947. It has recently been joined by surveys which specialize in locating the near-Earth objects (NEO), many (as of early 2007) funded by NASA's Near Earth Object program office as part of their Spaceguard program. One of the best-known is LINEAR that began in 1996. By 2004 LINEAR was discovering tens of thousands of objects each year and accounting for 65% of all new asteroid detections. LINEAR uses two one-meter telescopes and one half-meter telescope based in New Mexico.\n\nSpacewatch, which uses a 90 centimeter telescope sited at the Kitt Peak Observatory in Arizona, updated with automatic pointing, imaging, and analysis equipment to search the skies for intruders, was set up in 1980 by Tom Gehrels and Robert S. McMillan of the Lunar and Planetary Laboratory of the University of Arizona in Tucson, and is now being operated by McMillan. The Spacewatch project has acquired a 1.8 meter telescope, also at Kitt Peak, to hunt for NEOs, and has provided the old 90 centimeter telescope with an improved electronic imaging system with much greater resolution, improving its search capability.\n\nOther near-Earth object tracking programs include Near-Earth Asteroid Tracking (NEAT), Lowell Observatory Near-Earth-Object Search (LONEOS), Catalina Sky Survey, Campo Imperatore Near-Earth Object Survey (CINEOS), Japanese Spaceguard Association, and Asiago-DLR Asteroid Survey. Pan-STARRS completed telescope construction in 2010, and it is now actively observing.\n\nThe Asteroid Terrestrial-impact Last Alert System, now in operation, conducts frequent scans of the sky with a view to later-stage detection on the collision stretch of the asteroid orbit. Those would be much too late for deflection, but still in time for evacuation and preparation of the affected Earth region.\n\nAnother project, supported by the European Union, is NEOShield, which analyses realistic options for preventing the collision of a NEO with Earth. Their aim is to provide test mission designs for feasible NEO mitigation concepts.The project particularly emphasises on two aspects.\n\n\n\"Spaceguard\" is the name for these loosely affiliated programs, some of which receive NASA funding to meet a U.S. Congressional requirement to detect 90% of near-Earth asteroids over 1 km diameter by 2008. A 2003 NASA study of a follow-on program suggests spending US$250–450 million to detect 90% of all near-Earth asteroids 140 meters and larger by 2028.\n\nNEODyS is an online database of known NEOs.\n\nThe B612 Foundation is a private nonprofit foundation with headquarters in the United States, dedicated to protecting the Earth from asteroid strikes. It is led mainly by scientists, former astronauts and engineers from the Institute for Advanced Study, Southwest Research Institute, Stanford University, NASA and the space industry.\n\nAs a non-governmental organization it has conducted two lines of related research to help detect NEOs that could one day strike the Earth, and find the technological means to divert their path to avoid such collisions. The foundation's current goal is to design and build a privately financed asteroid-finding space telescope, Sentinel, to be launched in 2017–2018. The Sentinel's infrared telescope, once parked in an orbit similar to that of Venus, will help identify threatening NEOs by cataloging 90% of those with diameters larger than , as well as surveying smaller Solar System objects.\n\nData gathered by Sentinel will help identify asteroids and other NEOs that pose a risk of collision with Earth, by being forwarded to scientific data-sharing networks, including NASA and academic institutions such as the Minor Planet Center. The foundation also proposes asteroid deflection of potentially dangerous NEOs by the use of gravity tractors to divert their trajectories away from Earth, a concept co-invented by the organization's CEO, physicist and former NASA astronaut Ed Lu.\n\nOrbit@home intends to provide distributed computing resources to optimize search strategy. On February 16, 2013, the project was halted due to lack of grant funding. However, on July 23, 2013, the orbit@home project was selected for funding by NASA's Near Earth Object Observation program and was to resume operations sometime in early 2014. As of July 13, 2018, the project is offline according to its website.\n\nThe Large Synoptic Survey Telescope, currently under construction, is expected to perform a comprehensive, high-resolution survey starting in the early 2020s.\n\nOn November 8, 2007, the House Committee on Science and Technology's Subcommittee on Space and Aeronautics held a hearing to examine the status of NASA's Near-Earth Object survey program. The prospect of using the Wide-field Infrared Survey Explorer was proposed by NASA officials.\n\nWISE surveyed the sky in the infrared band at a very high sensitivity. Asteroids that absorb solar radiation can be observed through the infrared band. It was used to detect NEOs, in addition to performing its science goals. It is projected that WISE could detect 400 NEOs (roughly two percent of the estimated NEO population of interest) within the one-year mission.\n\nNEOSSat, the Near Earth Object Surveillance Satellite, is a microsatellite launched in February 2013 by the Canadian Space Agency (CSA) that will hunt for NEOs in space. Further, Near-Earth Object WISE (NEOWISE), an extension of the WISE mission, started in September 2013, to hunt asteroids and comets close to the orbit of Earth.\n\nResearch published in the March 26, 2009 issue of the journal \"Nature\", describes how scientists were able to identify an asteroid in space before it entered Earth's atmosphere, enabling computers to determine its area of origin in the Solar System as well as predict the arrival time and location on Earth of its shattered surviving parts. The four-meter-diameter asteroid, called 2008 TC, was initially sighted by the automated Catalina Sky Survey telescope, on October 6, 2008. Computations correctly predicted that it would impact 19 hours after discovery and in the Nubian Desert of northern Sudan.\n\nA number of potential threats have been identified, such as 99942 Apophis (previously known by its provisional designation ), which in 2009 temporarily had an impact probability of about 3% for the year 2029. Additional observations revised this probability down to zero.\n\nThe ellipses in the diagram at right show the likely asteroid position at closest Earth approach. At first, with only a few asteroid observations, the error ellipse is very large and includes the Earth. Further observations shrink the error ellipse, but it still includes the Earth. This raises the predicted impact probability, since the Earth now covers a larger fraction of the error region. Finally, yet more observations (often radar observations, or discovery of a previous sighting of the same asteroid on archival images) shrink the ellipse until the Earth is outside the error region, and the impact probability returns to near zero.\n\nVarious collision avoidance techniques have different trade-offs with respect to metrics such as overall performance, cost, operations, and technology readiness. There are various methods for changing the course of an asteroid/comet.\nThese can be differentiated by various types of attributes such as the type of mitigation (deflection or fragmentation), energy source (kinetic, electromagnetic, gravitational, solar/thermal, or nuclear), and approach strategy (interception, rendezvous, or remote station).\n\nStrategies fall into two basic sets: destruction and delay. Fragmentation concentrates on rendering the impactor harmless by fragmenting it and scattering the fragments so that they miss the Earth or burn up in the atmosphere. Delay exploits the fact that both the Earth and the impactor are in orbit. An impact occurs when both reach the same point in space at the same time, or more correctly when some point on Earth's surface intersects the impactor's orbit when the impactor arrives. Since the Earth is approximately 12,750 km in diameter and moves at approx. 30 km per second in its orbit, it travels a distance of one planetary diameter in about 425 seconds, or slightly over seven minutes. Delaying, or advancing the impactor's arrival by times of this magnitude can, depending on the exact geometry of the impact, cause it to miss the Earth.\n\nCollision avoidance strategies can also be seen as either direct, or indirect and in how rapidly they transfer energy to the object. The direct methods, such as nuclear explosives, or kinetic impactors, rapidly intercept the bolide's path. Direct methods are preferred because they are generally less costly in time and money. Their effects may be immediate, thus saving precious time. These methods would work for short-notice, and long-notice threats, and are most effective against solid objects that can be directly pushed, but in the case of kinetic impactors, they are not very effective against large loosely aggregated rubble piles. The indirect methods, such as gravity tractors, attaching rockets or mass drivers, are much slower and require traveling to the object, time to change course up to 180 degrees to fly alongside it, and then take much more time to change the asteroid's path just enough so it will miss Earth.\n\nMany NEOs are thought to be \"flying rubble piles\" only loosely held together by gravity, and a typical spacecraft sized kinetic-impactor deflection attempt might just break up the object or fragment it without sufficiently adjusting its course. If an asteroid breaks into fragments, any fragment larger than 35 meters across would not burn up in the atmosphere and itself could impact Earth. Tracking the thousands of buckshot-like fragments that could result from such an explosion would be a very daunting task, although fragmentation would be preferable to doing nothing and allowing the originally larger rubble body, which is analogous to a shot and wax slug, to impact the Earth.\n\nIn Cielo simulations conducted in 2011–2012, in which the rate and quantity of energy delivery were sufficiently high and matched to the size of the rubble pile, such as following a tailored nuclear explosion, results indicated that any asteroid fragments, created after the pulse of energy is delivered, would not pose a threat of re-coalescing (including for those with the shape of asteroid Itokawa) but instead would rapidly achieve escape velocity from their parent body (which for Itokawa is about 0.2 m/s) and therefore move out of an earth-impact trajectory.\n\nInitiating a nuclear explosive device above, on, or slightly beneath, the surface of a threatening celestial body is a potential deflection option, with the optimal detonation height dependent upon the composition and size of the object. It does not require the entire NEO to be vaporized to mitigate an impact threat. In the case of an inbound threat from a \"rubble pile,\" the stand off, or detonation height above the surface configuration, has been put forth as a means to prevent the potential fracturing of the rubble pile. The energetic neutrons and soft X-rays released by the detonation, which do not appreciably penetrate matter, are converted into thermal heat upon encountering the object's surface matter, ablatively vaporizing all line of sight exposed surface areas of the object to a shallow depth, turning the surface material it heats up into ejecta, and, analogous to the ejecta from a chemical rocket engine exhaust, changing the velocity, or \"nudging\", the object off course by the reaction, following Newton's third law, with ejecta going one way and the object being propelled in the other. Depending on the energy of the explosive device, the resulting rocket exhaust effect, created by the high velocity of the asteroid's vaporized mass ejecta, coupled with the object's small reduction in mass, would produce enough of a change in the object's orbit in order to avoid hitting the Earth.\n\nA Hypervelocity Asteroid Mitigation Mission for Emergency Response (HAMMER) has been proposed.\n\nIf the object is very large but is still a loosely held together rubble pile, a solution is to detonate one or a series of nuclear explosive devices alongside the asteroid, at a 20-meter or greater stand-off height above its surface, so as not to fracture the potentially loosely held together object. Providing this stand-off strategy was done far enough in advance, the force from a sufficient number of nuclear blasts would be enough to alter the object's trajectory to avoid an impact, according to computer simulations and experimental evidence from meteorites exposed to the thermal X-ray pulses of the Z-machine.\n\nThe 1964 book \"Islands in Space\" calculates that the nuclear megatonnage necessary for several deflection scenarios exists.\nIn 1967, graduate students under Professor Paul Sandorff at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology were tasked with designing a method to prevent a hypothetical 18 month distant impact on Earth by the 1.4 kilometer wide asteroid 1566 Icarus, an object which makes regular close approaches to Earth, sometimes as close as 16 lunar distances. To achieve the task within the timeframe and with limited material knowledge of the asteroid's composition, a variable stand-off system was conceived. This would have used a number of modified Saturn V rockets sent on interception courses and the creation of a handful of nuclear explosive devices in the 100 megaton energy range—coincidentally, the maximum yield of the Soviets' 27 metric-tonne mass, 1961 \"Tsar Bomba\" if a uranium tamper had been used—as each rocket vehicle's payload. The design study was later published as Project Icarus which served as the inspiration for the 1979 film \"Meteor\".\n\nA NASA analysis of deflection alternatives, conducted in 2007, stated:\n\nNuclear standoff explosions are assessed to be 10–100 times more effective than the non-nuclear alternatives analyzed in this study. Other techniques involving the surface or subsurface use of nuclear explosives may be more efficient, but they run an increased risk of fracturing the target NEO. They also carry higher development and operations risks.\nIn the same year NASA released a study where the asteroid Apophis (with a diameter ~300 m) was assumed to have a much lower rubble pile density (1,500 kg/m) and therefore mass than is now known, and in the study, it is assumed to be on an impact trajectory with Earth for the year 2029. Under these hypothetical conditions, the report determines that a \"Cradle spacecraft\" would be sufficient to deflect it from Earth impact. This conceptual spacecraft contains six B83 physics packages, each set for their maximum 1.2 megatonne yield that are bundled together and lofted by an Ares V vehicle sometime in the 2020s, with each B83 being fuzed to detonate over the asteroid's surface at a height of 100 m (\"1/3 of the objects diameter\" as its stand-off), one after the other, with hour long intervals between each successive detonation. The results of this study indicated that a single employment of this \"option can deflect NEOs of [100-500m diameter] two years before impact, and larger NEOs with at least five years warning\". These effectiveness figures are considered to be \"conservative\" by its authors and only the thermal X-ray output of the B83 devices was considered, while neutron heating was neglected for ease of calculation purposes.\n\nThe director of the Asteroid Deflection Research Center at Iowa State University, Wie, who had published kinetic impactor deflection studies in the past, began in 2011 to study strategies that could deal with 50 to 500 meter diameter objects when the time to Earth impact was under a year or so. He concluded that to provide the required energy, a nuclear explosion or other events that could deliver the same power, are the only methods that can work against a very large asteroid within these time constraints.\n\nThis work resulted in the creation of a conceptual Hypervelocity Asteroid Intercept Vehicle (HAIV), which combines a kinetic impactor to create an initial crater for a follow-up subsurface nuclear detonation within that initial crater, which would generate a high degree of efficiency in the conversion of the nuclear energy that is released in the detonation into propulsion energy to the asteroid.\n\nAnother proposed approach along similar lines is the use of a surface detonating nuclear device, in place of the prior mentioned kinetic impactor, in order to create the initial crater, with the resulting crater that forms then again being used as a rocket nozzle to channel succeeding nuclear detonations.\n\nAt the 2014 NASA Innovative Advanced Concepts (NIAC) conference, Wie and his colleagues stated that, \"We have the solution, using our baseline concept, to be able to mitigate the asteroid-impact threat, with any range of warning.\" For example, according to their computer models, with a warning time of 30 days a 1,000-foot-wide (300 m) asteroid would be neutralized by using a single HAIV, with less than 0.1 percent of the destroyed object's mass potentially striking Earth, which by comparison would be more than acceptable.\n\nAs of 2015 Wie has collaborated with the Danish Emergency Asteroid Defence Project (EADP), which ultimately intends to crowdsource sufficient funds to design, build and store a non-nuclear HAIV spacecraft as planetary insurance. For threatening asteroids too large and/or too close to Earth impact to effectively be deflected by the non-nuclear HAIV approach, nuclear explosive devices with 5% of the explosive yield in this configuration than when compared to the stand-off strategy are intended to be swapped-in, under international oversight, when conditions arise that necessitate it.\n\nFollowing the 1994 Shoemaker-Levy 9 comet impacts with Jupiter, Edward Teller proposed to a collective of U.S. and Russian ex-Cold War weapons designers in a 1995 planetary defense workshop meeting at Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory (LLNL), that they collaborate to design a 1 gigaton nuclear explosive device, which would be equivalent to the kinetic energy of a 1 km diameter asteroid. The theoretical 1 Gt device would weigh about 25–30 tons, light enough to be lifted on the Energia rocket and it could be used to instantaneously vaporize a 1 km asteroid, divert the paths of extinction event class asteroids (greater than 10 km in diameter) within a few months of short notice, while with 1-year notice, at an interception location no closer than Jupiter, it would also be capable of dealing with the even rarer short period comets which can come out of the Kuiper belt and transit past Earth orbit within 2 years. For comets of this class, with a maximum estimated 100 km diameter, Charon served as the hypothetical threat.\n\nIn 2013, the related National Laboratories of the US and Russia signed a deal that includes an intent to cooperate on defense from asteroids.\n\nAn April 2014 GAO report notes that the NNSA is retaining canned subassemblies (CSAs) \" in an indeterminate state pending a senior-level government evaluation of their use in planetary defense against earthbound asteroids.\" In its FY2015 budget request, the NNSA noted that the 9 Mt B53 component disassembly was \"delayed\", leading some observers to conclude they might be the warhead CSAs being retained for potential planetary defense purposes. Following the total disassembly of all 25 Mt high yield B41s in 1976, the B53 is the highest yielding US device presently in the Enduring Stockpile.\n\nThe use of nuclear explosive devices is an international issue and will need to be addressed by the United Nations Committee on the Peaceful Uses of Outer Space. The 1996 Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty technically bans nuclear weapons in space. However it is unlikely that a nuclear explosive device, fuzed to be detonated only upon interception with a threatening celestial object, with the sole intent of preventing that celestial body from impacting Earth would be regarded as an un-peaceful use of space, or that the explosive device sent to mitigate an Earth impact, explicitly designed to prevent harm to come to life would fall under the classification of a \"weapon\".\n\nThe impact of a massive object, such as a spacecraft or even another near-Earth object, is another possible solution to a pending NEO impact. An object with a high mass close to the Earth could be sent out into a collision course with the asteroid, knocking it off course.\n\nWhen the asteroid is still far from the Earth, a means of deflecting the asteroid is to directly alter its momentum by colliding a spacecraft with the asteroid.\n\nA NASA analysis of deflection alternatives, conducted in 2007, stated:\n\nNon-nuclear kinetic impactors are the most mature approach and could be used in some deflection/mitigation scenarios, especially for NEOs that consist of a single small, solid body.\nThe European Space Agency (ESA) is studying the preliminary design of two space missions for ~2020, named AIDA (formerly Don Quijote), and if flown, they would be the first intentional asteroid deflection mission ever designed. ESA's Advanced Concepts Team has also demonstrated theoretically that a deflection of 99942 Apophis could be achieved by sending a simple spacecraft weighing less than one ton to impact against the asteroid. During a trade-off study one of the leading researchers argued that a strategy called 'kinetic impactor deflection' was more efficient than others.\n\nThe European Union's NEOShield-2 Mission is also primarily studying the Kinetic Impactor mitigation method. The principle of the kinetic impactor mitigation method is that the NEO or Asteroid is deflected following an impact from an impactor spacecraft. The principle of momentum transfer is used, as the impactor crashes into the NEO at a very high velocity of 10 km/s or more. The mass and velocity of the impactor (the momentum) are transferred to the NEO, causing a change in velocity and therefore making it deviate from its course slightly.\n\nAs of mid-2018, the AIDA mission has been partly approved. The NASA Double Asteroid Redirection Test (\"DART\") kinetic impactor spacecraft has entered phase C (detailed definition). The goal os to impact the 180-m asteroidal moon of Near-Earth Asteroid 65803 Didymos, nicknamed \"Didymoon\". The impact will occur in October 2022 when Didymos is relatively close to Earth, allowing Earth-based telescopes and planetary radar to observe the event. The result of the impact will be to change the orbital velocity and hence orbital period of Didymoon, by a large enough amount that it can be measured from Earth. This will show for the first time that it is possible to change the orbit of a small ~200m diameter asteroid, around the size most likely to require active mitigation in the future. The second part of the AIDA mission - the ESA HERA spacecraft - has entered phase B (Preliminary Definition) and requires approval by ESA member states in October 2019. If approved, it would reach the Didymos system in 2024 and measure both the mass of \"Didymoon\" and the precise effect of the impact on that body, allowing much better extrapolation of the AIDA mission to other targets.\n\nOne more alternative to explosive deflection is to move the asteroid slowly over a time. Tiny constant thrust accumulates to deviate an object sufficiently from its predicted course. Edward T. Lu and Stanley G. Love have proposed using a large heavy unmanned spacecraft hovering over an asteroid to gravitationally pull the latter into a non-threatening orbit. The spacecraft and the asteroid mutually attract one another. If the spacecraft counters the force towards the asteroid by, e.g., an ion thruster, the net effect is that the asteroid is accelerated towards the spacecraft and thus slightly deflected from its orbit. While slow, this method has the advantage of working irrespective of the asteroid composition or spin rate – rubble pile asteroids would be difficult to deflect by means of nuclear detonations while a pushing device would be hard or inefficient to mount on a fast rotating asteroid. A gravity tractor would likely have to spend several years beside the asteroid to be effective.\n\nA NASA analysis of deflection alternatives, conducted in 2007, stated:\n\n\"Slow push\" mitigation techniques are the most expensive, have the lowest level of technical readiness, and their ability to both travel to and divert a threatening NEO would be limited unless mission durations of many years to decades are possible.\n\nAnother \"contactless\" asteroid deflection technique has been recently proposed by C.Bombardelli and J.Peláez from the Technical University of Madrid. The method involves the use of a low divergence ion thruster pointed at the asteroid from a nearby hovering spacecraft. The momentum transmitted by the ions reaching the asteroid surface produces a slow but continuous force that can deflect the asteroid in a similar way as done by the gravity tractor but with a lighter spacecraft.\n\nH. Jay Melosh proposed deflecting an asteroid or comet by focusing solar energy onto its surface to create thrust from the resulting vaporization of material, or to amplify the Yarkovsky effect. Over a span of months or years enough solar radiation can be directed onto the object to deflect it.\n\nThis method would first require the construction of a space station with a system of gigantic lenses. Then the station would be transported toward the Sun.\n\nA mass driver is an (automated) system on the asteroid to eject material into space thus giving the object a slow steady push and decreasing its mass. A mass driver is designed to work as a very low specific impulse system, which in general uses a lot of propellant, but very little power.\n\nThe idea is that when using local material as propellant, the amount of propellant is not as important as the amount of power, which is likely to be limited.\n\nAnother possibility is to use a mass driver on the Moon aimed at the NEO to take advantage of the Moon's orbital velocity and inexhaustible supply of \"rock bullets\". \n\nAttaching any spacecraft propulsion device would have a similar effect of giving a push, possibly forcing the asteroid onto a trajectory that takes it away from Earth. An in-space rocket engine that is capable of imparting an impulse of 10 N·s (E.g. adding 1 km/s to a 1000 kg vehicle), will have a relatively small effect on a relatively small asteroid that has a mass of roughly a million times more. Chapman, Durda, and Gold's white paper calculates deflections using existing chemical rockets delivered to the asteroid.\n\nSuch direct force rocket engines are typically proposed to use highly-efficient electrically powered spacecraft propulsion, such as ion thrusters or VASIMR.\n\nSimilar to the effects of a nuclear device, it is thought possible to focus sufficient laser energy on the surface of an asteroid to cause flash vaporization / ablation to create either in impulse or to ablate away the asteroid mass. This concept, called asteroid laser ablation was articulated in the 1995 SpaceCast 2020 white paper \"Preparing for Planetary Defense\", and the 1996 Air Force 2025 white paper \"Planetary Defense: Catastrophic Health Insurance for Planet Earth\". Early publications include C. R. Phipps \"ORION\" concept from 1996, Colonel Jonathan W. Campbell's 2000 monograph \"Using Lasers in Space: Laser Orbital Debris Removal and Asteroid Deflection\", and NASA's 2005 concept Comet Asteroid Protection System (CAPS). Typically such systems require a significant amount of power, such as would be available from a Space-Based Solar Power Satellite.\n\nAnother proposal is the Phillip Lubin's DE-STAR proposal.\n\n\nCarl Sagan, in his book Pale Blue Dot, expressed concern about deflection technology that any method capable of deflecting impactors \"away\" from Earth could also be abused to divert non-threatening bodies \"toward\" the planet. Considering the history of genocidal political leaders and the possibility of the bureaucratic obscuring of any such project's true goals to most of its scientific participants, he judged the Earth at greater risk from a man-made impact than a natural one. Sagan instead suggested that deflection technology be developed only in an actual emergency situation.\n\nAll low-energy delivery deflection technologies have inherent fine control and steering capability, making it possible to add just the right amount of energy to steer an asteroid originally destined for a mere close approach toward a specific Earth target.\n\nAccording to Rusty Schweickart, the gravitational tractor method is controversial because, during the process of changing an asteroid's trajectory, the point on the Earth where it could most likely hit would be slowly shifted across different countries. Thus, the threat for the entire planet would be minimized at the cost of some specific states' security. In Schweickart's opinion, choosing the way the asteroid should be \"dragged\" would be a tough diplomatic decision.\n\nAnalysis of the uncertainty involved in nuclear deflection shows that the ability to protect the planet does not imply the ability to target the planet. A nuclear explosion that changes an asteroid's velocity by 10 meters/second (plus or minus 20%) would be adequate to push it out of an Earth-impacting orbit. However, if the uncertainty of the velocity change was more than a few percent, there would be no chance of directing the asteroid to a particular target.\n\n\nAsteroid or comet impacts are a common subgenre of disaster fiction, and such stories typically feature some attempt—successful or unsuccessful—to prevent the catastrophe. Most involve trying to destroy or explosively redirect an object. (See also Asteroids in fiction –Collisions with Earth).\n\n\n\n\n\n Bibliography \nGeneral\n\n"}
{"id": "19650059", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19650059", "title": "Athenahealth", "text": "Athenahealth\n\nathenahealth, Inc. is a publicly traded American company that provides network-enabled services for healthcare and point-of-care mobile apps in the United States. athenahealth has a network of more than 114,000 providers and 110 million patients and offers a suite of services to manage medical records, revenue cycle, patient engagement, care coordination, and population health.\n\nThe company was founded in 1997 in San Diego, California; it is now headquartered in Watertown, Massachusetts and has grown to include operational sites in Belfast, Maine; Atlanta, Georgia; Austin, Texas; Princeton, New Jersey; and Chennai, Bangalore, and Pune, India.\n\nathenahealth began in 1997 as Athena Women's Health, a women's health and birthing center in San Diego, California. Cofounders Jonathan Bush and Todd Park set out to create a comfortable and comprehensive center, where mothers could receive \"a warm and supportive environment, personal attention, better care, and superior results\" while the back-end business was \"a ruthlessly efficient operation, with a laser focus on costs.\"\n\nThe birthing center excelled at delivering healthy babies: Only 10% of babies were delivered by C-section, one third of the national average, and 90% of mothers were able to breastfeed their newborns, beating the national average of 67% at the time. Yet while quality increased, costs followed in suit, and Bush and Park eventually closed their birthing center and started a medical data company called athenahealth on the heels of the Internet boom of 1999.\n\nIn 1998, venture funder Mark Wilson offered to buy athenahealth’s software for $11 million. Bush and Park turned down the offer but followed Wilson’s instinct, transitioning from a business model from birthing centers to a vision of building the healthcare internet. They transformed Athena Women’s Health to athenahealth, Inc., pulling in Ed Park, Park’s younger brother and engineer, to develop a practice management system. Leaving clinical work in the hands of capable providers, their new business endeavor aimed to “let doctors be doctors” and remove incessant and burdensome paperwork off doctors’ desks.\n\nThe start of 2000 saw two important moments in time: athenahealth’s first client, Anchor Medical Associates, went live on athenaCollector; and in February, its first electronic claim was submitted. While its first office opened its doors in Waltham, Massachusetts in 2002, athenahealth moved to Watertown, Massachusetts in 2005 and is still headquartered there today.\n\nathenahealth announced an initial public offering of its common stock on June 22, 2007. The offering was completed on September 20, 2007, at a price of $18 per share. It trades on the NASDAQ exchange under the symbol ATHN.\n\nSince moving its headquarters to Watertown in 2005, athenahealth has created campuses in: Chennai, India, in 2005; Belfast, Maine, in 2008; Princeton, New Jersey, in 2013; Atlanta, Georgia, and San Francisco, California, in 2014; Austin, Texas, in 2015; and Bangalore and Pune, India, in 2017.\n\nIn 2017-2018, under pressure from investor Elliott Management, athenahealth undertook substantial cost-cutting measures, and Bush resigned.\n\nAthenahealth has agreed to be acquired by a Veritas Capital and Evergreen Coast Capital affiliate for $5.7 billion, the companies announced Monday morning.\n\nathenaOne is athenahealth's fully integrated suite of cloud-based services, combining practice management (athenaCollector), an electronic health record (EHR) system (athenaClinicals), and care coordination (athenaCommunicator) into a single packaged offering.\n\nathenahealth’s first product, athenaCollector, a cloud-based revenue cycle and practice management service, rolled out in 2000. Built by Ed Park, the revenue cycle management system formed the foundation of athenaNet, athenahealth’s web-based system at large. (Ed Park would go on to become athenahealth’s Chief Operating Officer and member of its board.)\n\nIn 2006, the company launched athenaClinicals, reported as the \"first economically sustainable, service-based\" electronic medical records (EMR) system. athenaClinicals has been ranked as leading the market in EHR usability, due to its productivity and ability to reduce providers’ work, effectiveness of delivering patient care, and intuitive user interface.\n\nIn 2008, athenahealth introduced athenaCommunicator to manage phone calls. Since then, the product has evolved into a suite of \"patient engagement services,\" including a patient portal, patient self-scheduling solution, and live operator service to better help patients to schedule appointments, reschedule appointments, and make payments.\n\nIn 2013, the company purchased the Epocrates mobile brand, and continued to occupy Epocrates’s offices in Princeton, New Jersey and San Francisco, California. As an athenahealth service, Epocrates aggregates treatment information, including dosing and contraindications, to provide clinical decision support in the prescribing moments of care.\n\nEpocrates drug monographs have also been embedded into the athenaClinicals EHR system to enhance productivity and reduce time not spent on patients.\n\nathenahealth's More Disruption Please (MDP) program was launched in 2011. The initiative is both a partner program and an incubator environment for independent companies to develop products and services connected to athenahealth's ecosystem.\n\nIn 2014, athenahealth created the More Disruption Please accelerator, an opportunity for young startups still finding their legs to begin developing in athenahealth’s MDP space. “The goal of [the MDP accelerator] is to lower the barrier of entry for the best solutions to help us build the healthcare Internet,” said Mandira Singh, director of the More Disruption Please program. In its first full year, the accelerator added five companies to its portfolio.\n\nIn April 2016, athenahealth acquired Arsenal Health, which developed a Smart Scheduling service for healthcare providers. Arsenal Health was athenahealth's first MDP investment, in 2014.\n\nathenahealth launched MDP Labs in 2017. The program invites all entrepreneurs, from fledgling startups to mature companies, to innovate in healthcare and fix what’s broken. athenahealth’s MDP Labs offers workspace in its downtown San Francisco office, tailored programming, dedicated mentorship, opportunities for partnerships and funding, and exposure to potential clients.\n\nIn January 2015, athenahealth announced the acquisition of RazorInsights, a \"leader in cloud-based EHR and financial solutions\" for rural, critical access, and community hospitals. The purchase extended athenahealth’s established position in the outpatient market into the 50-bed and under inpatient care environment, which makes up nearly one third of the hospital market.\n\nIn February 2015, athenahealth announced that it had purchased webOMR, a web-based clinical applications and EHR platform developed by Boston’s Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center. athenahealth collaborated with BIDMC on the development of athenahealth's acute care service offering, using Beth Israel Deaconess Hospital-Needham, a 58-bed community hospital, as the alpha development site.\n\nathenahealth announced its acquisition of Praxify Technologies in June 2017.\n"}
{"id": "5885283", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5885283", "title": "Attachment therapy", "text": "Attachment therapy\n\nAttachment therapy is a controversial category of alternative child mental health interventions intended to treat attachment disorders. The term generally includes accompanying parenting techniques. Other names or particular techniques include \"the Evergreen model\", \"holding time\", \"rage-reduction\", \"compression therapy\", \"rebirthing\", \"corrective attachment therapy\" and Coercive Restraint Therapy. It is found primarily in the United States, and much of it is centered in about a dozen clinics in Evergreen, Colorado, where Foster Cline, one of the founders, established his clinic in the 1970s. This article describes this particular set of interventions although in clinical literature the term \"attachment therapy\" is sometimes used loosely to mean any intervention based on attachment theory, particularly outside the US. Attachment therapy as described in this article should not be confused with other schools of therapy which are more empirically based and which aim to address problems stemming from disrupted attachment to caregivers.\n\nIt has been described as a potentially abusive and pseudoscientific intervention that has resulted in adverse outcomes for children, including at least six documented child fatalities. Since the 1990s there have been a number of prosecutions for deaths or serious maltreatment of children at the hands of \"attachment therapists\" or parents following their instructions. Two of the most well-known cases are those of Candace Newmaker in 2000 and the Gravelles in 2003. Following the associated publicity, some advocates of attachment therapy began to alter views and practices to be less potentially dangerous to children. This change may have been hastened by the publication of a Task Force Report on the subject in January 2006, commissioned by the American Professional Society on the Abuse of Children (APSAC) which was largely critical of attachment therapy. In April 2007, ATTACh, an organization originally set up by attachment therapists, formally adopted a White Paper stating its unequivocal opposition to the use of coercive practices in therapy and parenting, promoting instead newer techniques of attunement, sensitivity and regulation. Some leading attachment therapists have also specifically moved away from coercive practices.\n\nAttachment therapy is a treatment used primarily with fostered or adopted children who have behavioral difficulties, sometimes severe, but including disobedience and perceived lack of gratitude or affection for their caregivers. The children's problems are ascribed to an inability to attach to their new parents, because of suppressed rage due to past maltreatment and abandonment. The common form of attachment therapy is \"holding\" therapy, in which a child is firmly held (or lain upon) by therapists or parents. Through this process of restraint and confrontation, therapists seek to produce in the child a range of responses such as rage and despair with the goal of achieving catharsis. In theory, when the child's resistance is overcome and the rage is released, the child is reduced to an infantile state in which he or she can be \"re-parented\" by methods such as cradling, rocking, bottle feeding and enforced eye contact. The aim is to promote attachment with the new caregivers. Control over the children is usually considered essential, and the therapy is often accompanied by parenting techniques which emphasize obedience. These accompanying parenting techniques are based on the belief that a properly attached child should comply with parental demands \"fast, snappy and right the first time\" and should be \"fun to be around\". These techniques have been implicated in several child deaths and other harmful effects.\n\nThis form of \"therapy\", including diagnosis and accompanying parenting techniques, is not scientifically validated, nor is it considered to be part of mainstream psychology. It is, despite its name, not based on attachment theory, with which it is considered incompatible. It is primarily based on Robert Zaslow's rage-reduction therapy from the 1960s and '70s and on psychoanalytic theories about suppressed rage, catharsis, regression, breaking down of resistance and defence mechanisms. Zaslow, Tinbergen, Martha Welch and other early proponents used it as a treatment for autism, based on the now discredited belief that autism was the result of failures in the attachment relationship with the mother.\n\nThis form of treatment differs significantly from evidence-based attachment-based therapies, talking psychotherapies such as attachment-based psychotherapy and relational psychoanalysis or the form of attachment parenting advocated by the pediatrician William Sears. Further, the form of rebirthing sometimes used within attachment therapy differs from the unrelated breathing therapy known as Rebirthing.\n\nThe controversy, as outlined in the 2006 American Professional Society on the Abuse of Children (APSAC) Task Force Report, has broadly centered around \"holding therapy\" and coercive, restraining, or aversive procedures. These include deep tissue massage, aversive tickling, punishments related to food and water intake, enforced eye contact, requiring children to submit totally to adult control over all their needs, barring normal social relationships outside the primary caretaker, encouraging children to regress to infant status, reparenting, attachment parenting, or techniques designed to provoke cathartic emotional discharge. Variants of these treatments have carried various labels that change frequently. They may be known as \"rebirthing therapy\", \"compression therapy\", \"corrective attachment therapy\", \"the Evergreen model\", \"holding time\", \"rage-reduction therapy\" or \"prolonged parent-child embrace therapy\". Some authors critical of this therapeutic approach have used the term Coercive Restraint Therapy. It is this form of treatment for attachment difficulties or disorders which is popularly known as \"attachment therapy\". Advocates for Children in Therapy, a group that campaigns against attachment therapy, give a list of therapies they state are attachment therapy by another name. They also provide a list of additional therapies used by attachment therapists which they consider to be unvalidated.\nMatthew Speltz of the University of Washington School of Medicine describes a typical treatment taken from The Center's material (apparently a replication of the program at the Attachment Center, Evergreen) as follows:\n\"Like Welsh (\"sic\")(1984, 1989), The Center induces rage by physically restraining the child and forcing eye contact with the therapist (the child must lie across the laps of two therapists, looking up at one of them). In a workshop handout prepared by two therapists at The Center, the following sequence of events is described: (1) therapist 'forces control' by holding (which produces child 'rage'); (2) rage leads to child 'capitulation' to the therapist, as indicated by the child breaking down emotionally ('sobbing'); (3) the therapist takes advantage of the child's capitulation by showing nurturance and warmth; (4) this new trust allows the child to accept 'control' by the therapist and eventually the parent. According to The Center's treatment protocol, if the child 'shuts down' (\"i.e.\", refuses to comply), he or she may be threatened with detainment for the day at the clinic or forced placement in a temporary foster home; this is explained to the child as a consequence of not choosing to be a 'family boy or girl.' If the child is actually placed in foster care, the child is then required to 'earn the way back to therapy' and a chance to resume living with the adoptive family.\"\n\nAccording to the APSAC Task Force,\n\"A central feature of many of these therapies is the use of psychological, physical, or aggressive means to provoke the child to catharsis, ventilation of rage, or other sorts of acute emotional discharge. To do this, a variety of coercive techniques are used, including scheduled holding, binding, rib cage stimulation (e.g., tickling, pinching, knuckling), and/or licking. Children may be held down, may have several adults lie on top of them, or their faces may be held so they can be forced to engage in prolonged eye contact. Sessions may last from 3 to 5 hours, with some sessions reportedly lasting longer... Similar but less physically coercive approaches may involve holding the child and psychologically encouraging the child to vent anger toward her or his biological parent.\"\n\nThe APSAC Task Force describes how the conceptual focus of these treatments is the child's individual internal pathology and past caregivers rather than current parent-child relationships or current environment. If the child is well-behaved outside the home this is seen as successful manipulation of outsiders, rather than as evidence of a problem in the current home or current parent-child relationship. The APSAC Task Force noted that this perspective has its attractions because it relieves the caregivers of responsibility to change aspects of their own behavior and aspirations. Proponents believe that traditional therapies fail to help children with attachment problems because it is impossible to establish a trusting relationship with them. They believe this is because children with attachment problems actively avoid forming genuine relationships. Proponents emphasize the child's resistance to attachment and the need to break it down. In rebirthing and similar approaches, protests of distress from the child are considered to be resistance that must be overcome by more coercion.\n\nCoercive techniques, such as scheduled or enforced holding, may also serve the intended purpose of demonstrating dominance over the child. Establishing total adult control, demonstrating to the child that he or she has no control, and demonstrating that all of the child's needs are met through the adult, is a central tenet of many controversial attachment therapies. Similarly, many controversial treatments hold that children described as attachment–disordered must be pushed to revisit and relive early trauma. Children may be encouraged to regress to an earlier age where trauma was experienced or be reparented through holding sessions. Other features of attachment therapy are the \"two week intensive\" course of therapy, and the use of \"therapeutic foster parents\" with whom the child stays whilst undergoing therapy. According to O'Connor and Zeanah, the \"holding\" approach would be viewed as intrusive and therefore non-sensitive and countertherapeutic, in contrast with accepted theories of attachment.\n\nAccording to Advocates for Children in Therapy,\n\"Attachment Therapy almost always involves extremely confrontational, often hostile confrontation of a child by a therapist or parent (sometimes both). Restraint of the child by more powerful adult(s) is considered an essential part of the confrontation.\" The purported correction is described as \"... to force the children into loving (attaching to) their parents; ... there is a hands-on treatment involving physical restraint and discomfort. Attachment Therapy is the imposition of boundary violations – most often coercive restraint – and verbal abuse on a child, usually for hours at a time; ... Typically, the child is put in a lap hold with the arms pinned down, or alternatively an adult lies on top of a child lying prone on the floor.\"\n\nPsychiatrist Bruce Perry cites the use of holding therapy techniques by caseworkers and foster parents investigating a Satanic Ritual Abuse case in the late 1980s, early 1990s, as instrumental in obtaining lengthy and detailed alleged \"disclosures\" from children. In his opinion, using force or coercion on traumatised children simply re-traumatizes them and far from producing love and affection, produces obedience based on fear, as in the trauma bond known as Stockholm syndrome.\n\nTherapists often instruct parents to follow programs of treatment at home, for example obedience-training techniques such as \"strong sitting\" (frequent periods of required silence and immobility) and withholding or limiting food. Earlier authors sometimes referred to this as \"German Shepherd training\". In some programmes children undergoing the two-week intensive stay with \"therapeutic foster parents\" for the duration or beyond and the adoptive parents are trained in their techniques.\n\nAccording to the APSAC Task Force, because it is believed children with attachment problems resist attachment, fight against it and seek to control others to avoid attaching, the child's character flaws must be broken before attachment can occur. Attachment parenting may include keeping the child at home with no social contacts, home schooling, hard labor or meaningless repetitive chores throughout the day, motionless sitting for prolonged periods of time, and control of all food and water intake and bathroom needs. Children described as attachment-disordered are expected by attachment therapists to comply with parental commands \"fast and snappy and right the first time\", and to always be \"fun to be around\" for their parents. Deviation from this standard, such as not finishing chores or arguing, is interpreted as a sign of attachment disorder that must be forcibly eradicated. From this perspective, parenting a child with an attachment disorder is a battle, and winning the battle by defeating the child is paramount.\n\nProper appreciation of total adult control is also considered vital, and information, such as how long a child will be with therapeutic foster parents or what will happen to him or her next, is deliberately withheld. Attachment parenting expert Nancy Thomas states that attachment-disordered children act worse when given information about what is going to occur because they will use the information to manipulate their environment and everyone in it.\n\nIn addition to restrictive behavior, parents are advised to provide daily sessions in which older children are treated as if they were babies to create attachment. The child is held in the caregiver's lap, rocked, hugged and kissed, and fed with a bottle and given sweets. These sessions are carried out at the caregiver's wish and not upon the child's request. Attachment therapists believe that reenactments of aspects of infant care have the power to rebuild damaged aspects of early development such as emotional attachment.\n\nIn contrast, traditional attachment theory holds that the provision of a safe and predictable environment and caregiver qualities such as sensitivity, responsiveness to children's physical and emotional needs and consistency, support the development of healthy attachment. Therapy based on this viewpoint emphasizes providing a stable environment and taking a calm, sensitive, non-intrusive, non-threatening, patient, predictable, and nurturing approach toward children. Further, as attachment patterns develop within relationships, methods to correct problems with attachment focus on improving the stability and positive qualities of the caregiver-child interactions and relationship. All mainstream interventions with an existing or developing evidential foundation focus on enhancing caregiver sensitivity, creating positive interactions with caregivers, or change of caregiver if that is not possible with existing caregivers. Some interventions focus specifically on increasing caregiver sensitivity in foster parents.\n\nLike a number of other alternative mental health treatments for children, attachment therapy is based on some assumptions that differ strongly from the theoretical foundations of other attachment based therapies. In contrast to traditional attachment theory, the theory of attachment described by attachment therapy proponents is that young children who experience adversity (including maltreatment, loss, separations, adoption, frequent changes in child care, colic or even frequent ear infections) become enraged at a very deep and primitive level. This results in a lack of ability to attach or to be genuinely affectionate to others. Suppressed or unconscious rage is theorized to prevent the child from forming bonds with caregivers and leads to behavior problems when the rage erupts into unchecked aggression. Such children are said to fail to develop a conscience, to not trust others, to seek control rather than closeness, to resist the authority of caregivers, and to engage in endless power struggles. They are seen as highly manipulative and as trying to avoid true attachments while simultaneously striving to control those around them through manipulation and superficial sociability. Such children are said to be at risk of becoming psychopaths who will go on to engage in very serious delinquent, criminal, and antisocial behaviors if left untreated. The tone in which the attributes of these children are described has been characterized as \"demonizing\".\n\nAdvocates of this treatment also believe that emotional attachment of a child to a caregiver begins during the prenatal period, during which the unborn child is aware of the mother's thoughts and emotions. If the mother is distressed by the pregnancy, especially if she considers abortion, the child responds with distress and anger that continue through postnatal life. If the child is separated from the mother after birth, no matter how early this occurs, the child again feels distress and rage that will block attachment to a foster or adoptive caregiver.\n\nIf the child has had a peaceful gestation, but after birth suffers pain or ungratified needs during the first year, attachment will again be blocked. If the child reaches the toddler period safely, but is not treated with strict authority during the second year, according to the so-called \"attachment cycle\", attachment problems will result. Failure of attachment results in a lengthy list of mood and behavior problems, but these may not be revealed until the child is much older. According to attachment therapist Elizabeth Randolph, attachment problems can be diagnosed even in an asymptomatic child through observation of the child's inability to crawl backward on command.\n\nCritics say holding therapies have been promoted as \"attachment\" therapies, even though they are more antithetical to than consistent with attachment theory, and not based on attachment theory or research. Indeed, they are considered incompatible. There are many ways in which holding therapy/attachment therapy contradicts Bowlby's attachment theory, e.g. attachment theory's fundamental and evidence-based statement that security is promoted by sensitivity. According to Mary Dozier \"holding therapy does not emanate in any logical way from attachment theory or from attachment research\".\n\nAttachment therapists claim to diagnose attachment disorder, and reactive attachment disorder. However, within attachment therapy, the diagnoses of attachment disorder and reactive attachment disorder are used in a manner not recognised in mainstream practice. Prior and Glaser describe two discourses on attachment disorder. One is science-based, found in academic journals and books with careful reference to theory, international classifications and evidence. They list Bowlby, Ainsworth, Tizard, Hodges, Chisholm, O'Connor and Zeanah and colleagues as respected attachment theorists and researchers in the field. The other discourse is found in clinical practice, non-academic literature and on the Internet where claims are made which have no basis in attachment theory and for which there is no empirical evidence. In particular unfounded claims are made as to efficacy of treatments. The Internet is considered essential to the popularization of holding therapy as an \"attachment\" therapy.\n\nThe APSAC Task Force describes the relationship between the proponents of attachment therapy and mainstream therapies as polarized. \"This polarization is compounded by the fact that attachment therapy has largely developed outside the mainstream scientific and professional community and flourishes within its own networks of attachment therapists, treatment centers, caseworkers, and parent support groups. Indeed, proponents and critics of the controversial attachment therapies appear to move in different worlds.\"\n\nBoth the APSAC Task Force and Prior and Glaser describe the proliferation of alternative \"lists\" and diagnoses, particularly on the Internet, by proponents of attachment therapy, that are not in accord with either DSM or ICD classifications and which are partly based on the unsubstantiated views of Zaslow and Menta and Cline. According to the Task Force, \"These types of lists are so nonspecific that high rates of false-positive diagnoses are virtually certain. Posting these types of lists on internet sites that also serve as marketing tools may lead many parents or others to conclude inaccurately that their children have attachment disorders.\"\n\nPrior and Glaser describe the lists as \"wildly inclusive\" and state that many of the behaviors in the lists are likely to be the consequences of neglect and abuse rather than located within the attachment paradigm. Descriptions of children are frequently highly pejorative and \"demonizing\". Examples given from lists of attachment disorder symptoms found on the internet include lying, avoiding eye contact except when lying, persistent nonsense questions or incessant chatter, fascination with fire, blood, gore and evil, food related issues (such as gorging or hoarding), cruelty to animals and lack of conscience. They also give an example from the Evergreen Consultants in Human Behavior which offers a 45-symptom checklist including bossiness, stealing, enuresis and language disorders.\n\nA commonly used diagnostic checklist in attachment therapy is the \"Randolph Attachment Disorder Questionnaire\" or \"RADQ\", which originated at the Institute for Attachment in Evergreen. It is presented not as an assessment of reactive attachment disorder but rather attachment disorder. The checklist includes 93 discrete behaviors, many of which either overlap with other disorders, like Conduct Disorder and Oppositional Defiant Disorder or are not related to attachment difficulties. It is largely based on the earlier Attachment Disorder Symptom Checklist which itself shows considerable overlap with even earlier checklists for indicators of sexual abuse. The Attachment Disorder Symptom Checklist includes statements about the parent's feelings toward the child as well as statements about the child's behavior. For example, parental feelings are evaluated through responses to such statements as \"Parent feels used\" and \"is wary of the child's motives if affection is expressed\", and \"Parents feel more angry and frustrated with this child than with other children\". The child's behavior is referred to in such statements as \"Child has a grandiose sense of self-importance\" and \"Child 'forgets' parental instructions or directives\". The compiler of the RADQ claims validity by reference to the Attachment Disorder Symptom Checklist. It also purports to diagnose attachment disorder for which there is no classification. A critic has stated that a major problem of the RADQ is that it has not been validated against any established objective measure of emotional disturbance.\n\nIn addition to concerns about the use of non-specific diagnostic checklists on the Internet being used as a marketing tool, the Task Force also noted the extreme claims made by proponents as to both the prevalence and effect of attachment disorders. Some proponents suggest most or a high proportion of adopted children are likely to suffer attachment disorder. Statistics on the prevalence of maltreatment are wrongly used to estimate the prevalence of RAD. Problematical or less desirable styles such as insecure or disorganized attachment are conflated with attachment disorder. Children are labeled as \"RADs\", \"RAD-kids\" or \"RADishes\". They are seen as manipulative, dishonest, without conscience and dangerous. Some attachment therapy sites predict that attachment-disordered children will grow up to become violent predators or psychopaths unless they receive the treatment proposed. A sense of urgency is created which serves to justify the application of aggressive and unconventional techniques. One site was noted to contain the argument that Saddam Hussein, Adolf Hitler, and Jeffrey Dahmer, were examples of children who were attachment-disordered who \"did not get help in time\". Foster Cline in his seminal work on attachment therapy \"Hope for high risk and rage filled children\" uses the example of Ted Bundy.\n\nIn answering the question posed as to how a treatment widely regarded by attachment clinicians and researchers as destructive and unethical came to be linked with attachment theory and to be seen as a viable and useful treatment, O'Connor and Nilson cite the use of the Internet to publicize attachment therapy and the lack of knowledgeable mainstream professionals or appropriate mainstream treatments or interventions. They set out recommendations for the better dissemination of both understanding of attachment theory and knowledge of the more recent evidence-based treatment options available.\n\nRachel Stryker in her anthropological study \"The Road to Evergreen\" argues that adoptive families of institutionalized children who have difficulties transitioning to a nuclear family are attracted to the Evergreen model despite the controversy, because it legitimises and reanimates the same ideas about family and domesticity as does the adoption process itself, offering renewed hope of \"normal\" family life. Institutionalized or abused children often do not conform to adopters conceptualizations of family behaviours and roles. The Evergreen model pathologizes the child's behaviour by a medical diagnosis, thus legitimising the family. As well as the promise of working where traditional therapies fail, attachment therapy also offers the idea of attachment as a negotiable social contract that can be enforced in order to convert the unsatisfactory adoptee into the \"emotional asset\" the family requires. By the use of confrontation the model offers the means to condition children to comply with parental expectations. Where the therapy fails to achieve this the fault is attributed to the child's conscious choice to not be a family member, or the child's inability to perform as family material.\n\nWithin mainstream practice, disorders of attachment are classified in DSM-IV-TR and ICD-10 as reactive attachment disorder (generally known as RAD), and Disinhibited attachment disorder. Both classification systems warn against automatic diagnosis based on abuse or neglect. Many symptoms are present in a variety of other more common and more easily treatable disorders. There is as yet no other accepted definition of attachment disorders.\n\nAccording to the American Academy of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry (AACAP) practice parameter published in 2005, the question of whether attachment disorders can be reliably diagnosed in older children and adults has not been resolved. Attachment behaviors used for the diagnosis of RAD change markedly with development and defining analogous behaviors in older children is difficult. There are no substantially validated measures of attachment in middle childhood or early adolescence.\n\nAttachment therapy prospered during the 1980s and '90s as a consequence of both the influx of older adopted orphans from Eastern European and third world countries and the inclusion of reactive attachment disorder in the 1980 Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders which attachment therapists adopted as an alternative name for their existing unvalidated diagnosis of attachment disorder.\n\nAccording to the APSAC Task Force, these therapies are sufficiently prevalent to have prompted position statements or specific prohibitions against using coercion or restraint as a treatment by mainstream professional societies such as: American Psychological Association (Division on Child Maltreatment), National Association of Social Workers (and its Utah Chapter), American Professional Society on the Abuse of Children, American Academy of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry, and American Psychiatric Association. The Association for the Treatment and Training in the Attachment of Children, (ATTACh), an organization for professionals and families associated with attachment therapy, has also issued statements against coercive practices. Two American states, Colorado and North Carolina, have outlawed rebirthing. There have been professional licensure sanctions against some leading proponents and successful criminal prosecutions and imprisonment of therapists and parents using attachment therapy techniques. Despite this, the treatments appear to be continuing among networks of attachment therapists, attachment therapy centers, caseworkers, and adoptive or foster parents. The advocacy group ACT states, \"Attachment Therapy is a growing, underground movement for the 'treatment' of children who pose disciplinary problems to their parents or caregivers.\"\n\nRachel Stryker in her anthropological study \"The Road to Evergreen\" states that attachment therapies \"of all stripes\" are increasingly popular in the USA and that the number of therapists associated with the Evergreen model registering with ATTACh grows each year. She cites the large number of formerly institutionalized domestic and foreign adoptees in the USA and the apparently higher risk of disruption of foreign adoptions, of which there were 216,000 between 1998 and 2008.\n\nThe practice of holding therapy is not confined to the US. Prior and Glaser cite at least one clinic in the UK. Attachment therapists from the USA have conducted conferences in the UK. The British Association for Adoption and Fostering, (BAAF), has issued an extensive position statement on the subject which covers not only physical coercion but also the underlying theoretical principles. It had been thought, until recently, that therapists calling themselves \"attachment therapists\" practising in the UK tended to be practising conventional forms of psychotherapy based on attachment theory. In 2009 The British Journal of Social Work accepted an article rehabilitating holding therapy, \"To Have and to Hold: Questions about a Therapeutic Service for Children\" describing an earlier study involving the Keys Attachment Centre in Rossendale, Lancashire and the surrounding Keys Attachment Homes. In 2012, first-hand accounts from a survivor and a number of professionals provided evidence that the coercive Evergreen model of holding therapy had been systematically used to treat children in Local Authority care within a programme in North West England.\n\nThe APSAC Task Force stated that proponents of attachment therapy correctly point out that most critics have never actually observed any of the treatments they criticize or visited any of the centers where the controversial therapies are practiced. Proponents argue that their therapies present no physical risk if undertaken properly and that critics' concerns are based on unrepresentative occurrences and misapplications of techniques, or misunderstanding by parents. Holding is described as gentle or nurturing and it is maintained that intense, cathartic approaches are necessary to help children with attachment disorders. Their evidence for this is primarily clinical experience and testimonials.\n\nAccording to the APSAC Task Force, there are controversies within the attachment therapy community about coercive practices. There has been a move away from coercive and confrontational models towards attunement and emotional regulation amongst some leaders in the field, notably Hughes, Kelly and Popper. A number of therapies are quite different from those that have led to the abuse and deaths of children in much publicized court cases. The Task Force, however, points out that all the therapies, including those using frankly coercive practices, present themselves as humane, respectful and nurturing, therefore caution is advised. Some practitioners condemn the most dangerous techniques but continue to practice other coercive techniques. Others have taken a public stand against coercion. The Task Force was of the view that all could benefit from more transparency and specificity as to how the therapy is behaviorally delivered.\n\nIn 2001, 2003 and 2006, ATTACh, an organization set up by Foster Cline and associates, issued a series of statements in which they progressively changed their stance on coercive practices. In 2001, after the death of Candace Newmaker they stated \"The child will never be restrained or have pressure put on them in such a manner that would interfere with their basic life functions such as breathing, circulation, temperature, etc.\" A White Paper, formally accepted in April 2007, \"unequivocally state(s) our opposition to the use of coercive practices in therapy and parenting.\" They acknowledge ATTACh's historical links with catharsis, provocation of rage, and intense confrontation, among other overtly coercive techniques (and indeed continue to offer for sale books by controversial proponents) but state that the organization has evolved significantly away from earlier positions. They state that their recent evolution is due to a number of factors including tragic events resulting from such techniques, an influx of members practicing other techniques such as attunement and a \"fundamental shift ... away from viewing these children as driven by a conscious need for control toward an understanding that their often controlling and aggressive behaviors are automatic, learned defensive responses to profoundly overwhelming experiences of fear and terror.\" While being of the view that authoritative practices are necessary, and that nurturing touch and treatment aimed at the perceived developmental rather than chronological age are an integral part of the therapy, the White Paper promotes the techniques of attunement, sensitivity and regulation and deprecates coercive practices such as enforced holding or enforced eye contact.\n\nMatthew Speltz of the University of Washington School of Medicine states that the roots of attachment therapy are traceable to psychologist Robert Zaslow and his \"Z-process\" in the 1970s. Zaslow attempted to force attachment in those suffering from autism by creating rage while holding them against their will. He believed this would lead to a breakdown in their defense mechanisms, making them more receptive to others. Zaslow thought attachment arose when an infant experienced feelings of pain, fear and rage, and then made eye contact with the carer who relieved those feelings. If an infant did not experience this cycle of events by having his fear and rage relieved, the infant would not form an attachment and would not make eye contact with other people. Zaslow believed that creating pain and rage and combining them with eye contact would cause attachment to occur, long after the normal age for such developments. Holding therapies derive from these \"rage-reduction\" techniques applied by Zaslow. The holding is not used for safety purposes but is initiated for the purpose of provoking strong negative emotions such as fear and anger. The child's release typically depends upon his or her compliance with the therapist's clinical agenda or goals. In 1971, Zaslow surrendered his California psychology license following an injury to a patient during rage-reduction therapy. Zaslow's ideas on the use of the Z-process and holding for autism have been dispelled by research on the\ngenetic/biologic causes of autism.\n\nZaslow and his \"Z-process\", a physically rough version of holding therapy, influenced Foster Cline (known as the \"father of attachment therapy\") and associates at his clinic in Evergreen A key tenet of Zaslow's approach was the notion of \"breaking through\" a child's defenses—based on the model of ego defenses borrowed from psychoanalytic theory, which critics state has been misapplied. The \"breaking through\" metaphor was then applied to children whose attachments were thought to be impaired. The clinic, originally called the Youth Behavior Program, was subsequently renamed the Attachment Center at Evergreen.\n\nIn 1983, ethologist Nikolas Tinbergen published a book recommending the use of holding therapy by parents as a treatment or \"cure\" for autistic children. Tinbergen based his ideas on his methods of observational study of birds. Parents were advised to hold their autistic children despite resistance and to endeavor to maintain eye contact and share emotions. Tinbergen believed that autism related to a failure in the bond between mother and child caused by \"traumatic influences\" and that enforced holding and eye contact could establish such a relationship and rescue the child from autism. Tinbergen's interpretations of autism were without scientific rigor and were contrary to the then growing acceptance that autism had a genetic cause. Despite the lack of a sound theoretical or scientific base, holding therapy as a treatment for autism is still practiced in some parts of the world, notably Europe.\n\nSpeltz cites child psychiatrist Martha Welch and her 1988 book, \"Holding Time\", as the next significant development. Like Zaslow and Tinbergen, Welch recommended holding therapy as a treatment for autism. Like Tinbergen, Welch believed autism was caused by the failure of the attachment relationship between mother and child. Mothers were instructed to hold their defiant child, provoking anger and rage, until such time as the child ceased to resist, at which point a bonding process was believed to begin.\n\nFoster Cline and associates at the Attachment Center at Evergreen, Colorado began to promote the use of the same or similar holding techniques with adopted, maltreated children who were said to have an \"attachment disorder\". This was replicated elsewhere such as at \"The Center\" in the Pacific Northwest. A number of other clinics arose in Evergreen, Colorado, set up by those involved in or trained at the Attachment Center at Evergreen (renamed the Institute for Attachment and Development in about 2002). These included one set up by Connell Watkins, formerly an associate of Foster Cline at the Attachment Center and its clinical director. Watkins was one of the therapists convicted in the Candace Newmaker case in 2001 in which a child was asphyxiated during a rebirthing process in the course of a two-week attachment therapy \"intensive\". Foster Cline gave up his license and moved to another state following an investigation of a separate attachment therapy related incident.\n\nIn addition to the notion of \"breaking through\" defence mechanisms, other metaphors were adopted by practitioners relating to the supposed effects of early deprivation, abuse or neglect on the child's ability to form relationships. These included the idea of the child's development being \"frozen\" and treatment being required to \"unfreeze\" development. Practitioners of holding therapy also added some components of Bowlby's attachment theory and the therapy came to be known as attachment therapy. Language from attachment theory is used but descriptions of the practices contain ideas and techniques based on misapplied metaphors deriving from Zaslow and psychoanalysis, not attachment theory. According to Prior and Glaser \"there is no empirical evidence to support Zaslow's theory. The concept of suppressed rage has, nevertheless, continued to be a central focus explaining the children's behavior.\"\n\nCline's privately published work \"Hope for high risk and rage filled children\" also cites family therapist and hypnotherapist Milton Erickson as a source, and reprints parts of a case of Erickson's published in 1961. The report describes the case of a divorced mother with a non-compliant son. Erickson advised the mother to sit on the child for hours at a time and to feed him only on cold oatmeal while she and a daughter ate appetizing food. The child did increase in compliance, and Erickson noted, with apparent approval, that he trembled when his mother looked at him. Cline commented, with respect to this and other cases, that in his opinion all bonds were trauma bonds. According to Cline, it illustrates the three essential components of 1) taking control, 2) the child's expression of rage; and, 3) relaxation and the development of bonding.\n\nIn addition, proponents believed that holding induced age regression, enabling a child to make up for physical affection missed earlier in life. Regression is key to the holding therapy approach. In attachment therapy, breaking down the child's resistance by confrontational techniques is thought to reduce the child to an infantile state, thus making the child receptive to forming attachment by the application of early parenting behaviors such as bottle feeding, cradling, rocking and eye contact. Some, but by no means all, attachment therapists have used rebirthing techniques to aid regression. The roots of the form of rebirthing used within attachment therapy lie in primal therapy (sometimes known as primal scream therapy), another therapy based on beliefs in very early trauma and the transformational nature of age regression. Bowlby explicitly rejected the notion of regression stating \"present knowledge of infant and child development requires that a theory of developmental pathways should replace theories that invoke specific phases of development in which it is held a person may become fixated and/or to which he may regress.\"\n\nAccording to O'Connor and Nilsen, although other aspects of treatment are applied, the holding component has attracted most attention because proponents believe it is an essential ingredient. They also considered the lack of available and suitable interventions from mainstream professionals as essential to the popularization of holding therapy as an attachment therapy.\n\nIn 2003, an issue of \"Attachment & Human Development\" was devoted to the subject of attachment therapy with articles by well-known experts in the field of attachment. Attachment researchers and authors condemned it as empirically unfounded, theoretically flawed and clinically unethical. It has also been described as potentially abusive and a pseudoscientific intervention, not based on attachment theory or research, that has resulted in tragic outcomes for children including at least six documented child fatalities. In 2006, the American Professional Society on the Abuse of Children (APSAC) Task Force reported on the subjects of attachment therapy, reactive attachment disorder, and attachment problems and laid down guidelines for the future diagnosis and treatment of attachment disorders. The APSAC Task Force was largely critical of Attachment Therapy's theoretical base, practices, claims to an evidence base, non-specific symptoms lists published on the internet, claims that traditional treatments do not work and dire predictions for the future of children who do not receive attachment therapy. \"Although focused primarily on specific attachment therapy techniques, the controversy also extends to the theories, diagnoses, diagnostic practices, beliefs, and social group norms supporting these techniques, and to the patient recruitment and advertising practices used by their proponents.\" In 2007, Scott Lilienfeld included holding therapy as one of the potentially harmful therapies (PHT's) at level 1 in his \"Psychological Science\" review. Describing it as \"unfortunately\" referred to as \"attachment therapy\", Mary Dozier and Michael Rutter consider it critical to differentiate it from treatments derived from attachment theory. A mistaken association between attachment therapy and attachment theory may have resulted in a relatively unenthusiastic view towards the latter among some practitioners despite its relatively profound lines of research in the field of socioemotional development.\n\nAccording to the APSAC Task Force, proponents of attachment therapy commonly assert that their therapies alone are effective for attachment-disordered children and that traditional treatments are ineffective or harmful. The APSAC Task Force expressed concern over claims by therapies to be \"evidence-based\", or the \"only\" evidence-based therapy, when the Task Force found no credible evidence base for any such therapy so advertised. Nor did it accept more recent claims to evidence base in its November 2006 Reply.\n\nTwo approaches on which published studies have been undertaken are holding therapy and dyadic developmental psychotherapy. Each of these non-randomized studies concluded that the treatment method studied was effective. Both the APSAC Task Force and Prior and Glaser cite and criticize the one published study on holding therapy undertaken by Myeroff et al., which \"purports to be an evaluation of holding therapy\". This study covers the \"across the lap\" approach, described as \"not restraint\" by Howe and Fearnley but \"being held whilst unable to gain release.\" Prior and Glaser state that although the Myeroff study claims it is based on attachment theory, the theoretical basis for the treatment is in fact Zaslow.\n\nDyadic developmental psychotherapy was developed by psychologist Daniel Hughes, described by the Task Force as a \"leading attachment therapist\". Hughes' website gave a list of attachment therapy techniques, repeated by the APSAC Task Force from an earlier website, which he stated do not or should not form part of dyadic developmental psychotherapy, which the Task Force took as a description of attachment therapy techniques. Two studies on dyadic developmental psychotherapy have been published by Becker-Weidman, the second being a four-year follow up of the first. Prior and Glaser state Hughes' therapy reads as good therapy for abused and neglected children, though with \"little application of attachment theory\", but the advocacy group ACT and the Task Force place Hughes within the attachment therapy paradigm.\n\nIn 2004, Saunders, Berliner and Hanson developed a system of categories for social work interventions which has proved somewhat controversial. In their first analysis, holding therapy was placed in Category 6 as a \"Concerning treatment\". In 2006 Craven and Lee classified 18 studies in a literature review under the Saunders, Berliner & Hanson system. They considered both dyadic developmental psychotherapy and holding therapy. They placed both in Category 3 as \"Supported and acceptable\". This categorization by Craven and Lee has been criticized as unduly favorable, a point to which Craven and Lee responded by arguments in support of holding therapy. Both Myeroff et al.'s study and Becker-Weidman's first study (published after the main Report) were examined in the Task Force's November 2006 Reply to Letters and were criticized as to their methodology. Becker-Weidman's study was described by the Task Force as \"an important first step toward learning the facts about DDP outcomes\" but falling far short of the criteria necessary to constitute an evidence base.\n\nSome studies are still being undertaken on coercive therapies. A nonrandomized, before-and-after 2006 pilot study by Welch (the progenitor of \"holding time\") et al. on Welch's \"prolonged parent-child embrace therapy\" was conducted on children with a range of diagnoses for behavioral disorders and claimed to show significant improvement.\n\nIn March 2007, attachment therapy was placed on a list of treatments that have the potential to cause harm to clients in the APS journal, \"Perspectives on Psychological Science\". Concern was expressed about methods that involve holding and restraint, and the lack of randomized, controlled experiments showing the effectiveness of the treatment.\n\nIn 2010 a modest social work study and \"invitation to a debate\", based on interviews with the deliverers and recipients of a therapeutic intervention incorporating non-coercive holding at one centre in the UK, called for further consideration of the use of this type of intervention. The intervention was not described as \"holding therapy\" but as using a degree of holding in the course of therapy. Although recipients were generally positive about the therapy received, the holding aspect was the least liked. The authors call for research and a debate on issues of what constitutes \"coercion\" and the distinctions between the different variants of \"holding\" in therapy.\n\nThere have been a number of cases of serious harm to children in which controversial attachment therapy techniques, theories or belief systems have been implicated. An estimated six children have died as a consequence of the more coercive forms of such treatments or the application of the accompanying parenting techniques.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44819265", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44819265", "title": "Better Care Fund", "text": "Better Care Fund\n\nThe Better Care Fund is a pooled budget, initially £5.3 billion announced by the Cameron Government in the June 2013 Spending Round. Local councils are allowed to increase the local fund. The intention is to shift resources into social care and community services from the NHS budget in England and so save £1 billion a year by keeping patients out of hospital.\n\nEach of the 151 health and wellbeing boards is required to produce a local plan, and these plans are checked by NHS England. Analysis of the plans submitted showed that social care would benefit from the fund by about £2 billion. This is four times the amount projected for hospitals to save from reduced activity.\n\nThe National Audit Office said in November 2014 that the plans had been inadequately thought through and were based on “optimism rather than evidence”. There was no evidence that showed that integrated care reduces unplanned hospital admissions.\n\nFrancis Maude praised Inclusion Healthcare at a speech in December 2014 about the Fund saying the company could provide care more cheaply and simply than the NHS. He said the fund was unlikely to lift the pressure from overcrowded hospitals because of “endless process and bureaucracy” in the NHS. He related how Inclusion had helped a homeless man with leg ulcers who was refusing to go into hospital because he could not afford to put his dog in kennels while he was there by writing \"a cheque for £200 or whatever it cost to have the dog vaccinated and put into kennels\". According to Maude, the firm say \"actually if we had still been in the NHS we could never have done that without endless process and bureaucracy and auditing and which budget does it come out of, and how do we account for it, and it would never have happened”.\n\nThe Chartered Institute of Public Finance and Accountancy and the Healthcare Financial Managers Association surveyed the ambitious plans for saving money through integration financed by the BCF in December 2015 and concluded that 80% were likely to fail and that many were hampering progress, and “giving integration a bad name”. Targets for reduced hospital admission had generally not been delivered.\n\nIn February 2017 the National Audit Office produced a report saying that the £5.3 billion spent in 2015/16 had not delivered value for money. Emergency hospital admissions had increased by 87,000 between 2014/15 and 2015/16, rather than the planned reduction of 106,000, which had cost an additional £311 million. Delayed transfers of care increased by 185,000 days, rather than the planned reduction of 293,000, which had cost £146 million more. \n"}
{"id": "27259965", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27259965", "title": "CMA (AAMA)", "text": "CMA (AAMA)\n\nThe CMA (AAMA) credential represents a medical assistant who has been certified by the Certifying Board of the American Association of Medical Assistants (AAMA). The CMA (AAMA) is awarded to candidates who have successfully completed the CMA (AAMA) Certification/Recertification Examination administered by the Certifying Board of the AAMA. The credential is valid throughout the United States, and requires recertification every 60 months. The CMA (AAMA) is the only allied health professional required to graduate from an accredited postsecondary medical assisting program that focuses on training for work in medical offices, clinics, and other outpatient care centers.\n\nThe CMA (AAMA) Certification/Recertification Exam is drawn from an in-depth analysis of the general, clinical, and administrative tasks medical assistants perform on a daily basis, according to the Occupational Analysis of the CMA (AAMA). The National Board of Medical Examiners (NBME) serves as test consultant for the exam. \n\nExamination questions are formulated by the AAMA Certifying Board's Task Force for Test Construction, a group composed of practicing medical assistants, physicians, and medical assisting educators from across the United States. Alongside the NBME, the Task Force updates the CMA (AAMA) Exam to reflect the changes in the day-to-day responsibilities of medical assistants, as well as developments in medical knowledge and technology. The examination tests knowledge in three major areas: general medical knowledge (e.g., terminology and anatomy), administrative knowledge (e.g., management and insurance processing), and clinical knowledge (e.g., medical preparation and pharmacology).\n\nTo be eligible for the exam, an applicant must be a graduate of a medical assisting program accredited by the Commission on Accreditation of Allied Health Education Programs (CAAHEP) or the Accrediting Bureau of Health Education Schools (ABHES). The exam is offered year-round at test centers nationwide.\n\nEvery 60 months, the CMA (AAMA) is required to keep the credential current by recertifying. The credential must be current for a medical assistant to use it in connection with employment. Certification status is a matter of public record and may be released, and also may be verified on the AAMA website. MedicalAssistantEdu.org\n\nA CMA (AAMA) holder can recertify one of two ways: by earning 60 recertification points through continuing education, or by retaking and passing the CMA (AAMA) Certification/Recertification Exam.\n"}
{"id": "21952846", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21952846", "title": "CURE International", "text": "CURE International\n\nCURE International is a Christian nonprofit organization based in New Cumberland, Pennsylvania. CURE's efforts are focused on providing medical care to children suffering primarily from orthopedic and neurological conditions. The organization's stated mission is \"healing the sick and proclaiming the kingdom of God.\" The organization operates hospitals in Afghanistan, Ethiopia, Kenya, Malawi, Niger, the Philippines, Uganda, the United Arab Emirates and Zambia. The organization also runs specialty programs for clubfoot and hydrocephalus in an additional 19 countries including Bangladesh and Honduras.\n\nThe organization was founded in 1996 by Dr. C. Scott Harrison and his wife, Sally. Ten years earlier, Harrison had traveled to Malawi, Africa to perform spine surgery and teach higher level orthopedic surgery skills to local surgeons. In the years following, Harrison and his wife made many trips back, discovering a need for children with orthopedic disabilities. When his tenure as CEO and President of Kirschner Medical was over, Harrison created the Crippled Children's United Rehabilitation Effort (CCURE or C²URE, later CURE), hoping to meet that need. CURE's first hospital opened in 1998 in Kenya. Today, it is the largest provider of pediatric surgical care in the developing world. Harrison stepped down as President in 2012.\n\nAfghanistan: CURE accepted the invitation from Afghan Ministry of Public Health to take over a hospital located in Kabul in January, 2005. The hospital offers care for 8,000 patients each year and training programs for doctors and nurses in obstetrics and gynecology, pathology, orthopedic surgery, plastic surgery and general practice. In the fall of 2006, CURE partnered with Smile Train to develop a cleft lip and cleft palate surgical training program. \n\nOn 24 April 2014, three CURE physicians were killed by an Afghan security guard, among them one American, Dr. Jerry Umanos, a pediatrician. Dr. Umanos' wife, who forgave the gunman, commented on her husband's \"love for the Afghan people\" and \"desire to be the hands and feet of Christ\".\n\nEthiopia: The CURE Ethiopia Children's Hospital, established in 2008, is a pediatric orthopedic teaching hospital in Addis Ababa. It provides training in pediatric and advanced orthopedic techniques and has a dual focus on pediatric orthopedics and pediatric plastic reconstruction, such as cleft lip, clubfoot, and limb deformities.\n\nKenya: The first CURE hospital opened in 1998 in Kijabe. The AIC-CURE International Children's Hospital is a 30-bed hospital that serves approximately 8,000 children per year, also operating mobile clinics to remote regions. The orthopedic training program has been certified by the College of Surgeons of East, Central and Southern Africa, where surgeons spend five years training at the hospital and then work at another CURE hospital. CURE Clubfoot, a non-surgical treatment for the correction of clubfoot in young children, is hosted in this hospital.\n\nMalawi: Established in 2002 with a donation from the Beit Trust, the Beit CURE International Hospital in Blantyre has 66 beds and has expertise in total hip and knee replacement surgery. The hospital also provides physiotherapy and chiropractic services, orthopedic training, mobile clinics and a partnership with Smile Train.\n\nNiger: The CURE Hôpital des Enfants au Niger opened in Niamey in the summer of 2010, offering specialty surgical care and training programs for doctors and nurses. In April 2016, the Satmed eHealth platform was deployed to the Niamey CURE hospital to provide communication between staff and national and international doctors to receive medical counselling, remote diagnosis of patients by experts across the world, online training for doctors and nurses to improve their knowledge, and easy access to the internet, via satellite.\n\nUganda: Specializing in treating neurosurgical needs, the CURE Children's Hospital of Uganda opened in 2000 and has been recognized as a global leader in treatment of hydrocephalus. The hospital, located in Mbale, also treats children with neural tube defects, spina bifida, epilepsy, and brain tumors. The training program brings in surgeons from many countries, including Bangladesh, the U.S., and Ghana.\n\nUnited Arab Emirates: The CURE Oasis Hospital, located in Al Ain, was established in 1960 to bring American medical care to the UAE. The hospital delivers 3,500 babies and treats over 122,000 patients annually. CURE acquired the hospital in 2006.\n\nZambia: The Beit CURE International Hospital of Zambia was established in 2004 in Lusaka when CURE signed an agreement with the Zambian Ministry of Health to operate a pediatric teaching hospital, specializing in treatment and care of children living with disabilities. The Beit Trust, a UK-based charity, donated $1.5 million to support construction of the hospital as a centennial gift to the people of Zambia. The hospital partners with Smile Train and has a hip replacement program.\n\nCURE and the Tebow Foundation announced plans to build a children's hospital in the fall of 2011 in the Philippines, the country where ESPN broadcaster Tim Tebow was born. The Tebow CURE Hospital in Davao City, on the island of Mindanao, will hold 30 beds and will specialize in orthopedics. Construction began in January 2012 and was completed in late 2014, with a grand opening in May 2015. The project is estimated to cost $3 million.\n\nDominican Republic: The Centro de Ortopedia y Especialidades CURE International, established in 2003, was located in Santo Domingo. It served approximately 700 outpatients per month. The hospital also sent surgical teams into Haiti and responded to the 2010 Haiti earthquake by sending in one of the first surgical teams into that country. The hospital ceased doing surgical operations in 2018, but CURE continues work in the country through its specialty clubfoot program.\n\nHonduras: In 2013, the CURE Internacional Hospital de Ortopedia Pediátrica, located in San Pedro Sula, closed due to increasing insecurity in the country, and a lack of funding from the government. During its four years of operation, approximately 20,000 children were treated with orthopedic corrections. CURE continues to work in the country through its specialty clubfoot and hydrocephalus programs.\n\nCURE Clubfoot: Clubfoot, a congenital deformity making walking difficult or impossible, can be corrected, using the surgery-free Ponseti Method for $250. CURE Clubfoot's goal is to eradicate clubfoot in the developing world, with over 220,000 children born each year with the deformity. Through partnerships with other international NGOs, the donor community and in-country partners, CURE has enrolled over 100,000 children in 18 countries with 291 clinics.\n\nCURE Hydrocephalus: The program provides surgeons the training and equipment to combat the condition. Surgeons are trained in multiple forms of hydrocephalus treatment, including a “shuntless” procedure known as the Warf procedure, or ETV/CPC, where they identify the blockage in the brain and create a new path through which the accumulating fluid can drain naturally. With the surgery taking as little as 45 minutes, CURE claims the results are permanent and often much more stable than implanting a shunt. \n\nOn August 2, 2011, three representatives of CURE Hydrocephalus testified in front of the U. S. House of Representatives Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on Africa, Global Health, and Human Rights. Dr. Benjamin Warf, former medical director of CURE Uganda, Dr. Steven Schiff, who conducted research at CURE Uganda, and Jim Cohick, Senior Vice President of Specialty Programs at CURE International, spoke on the issue.\n\n"}
{"id": "30857996", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30857996", "title": "Center for Sex Positive Culture", "text": "Center for Sex Positive Culture\n\nThe Center for Sex Positive Culture (CSPC), formerly known as The Wet Spot, is a non-profit, membership-based organization located in Seattle, Washington. It organizes events and provides space for several different sex-positive subcultures, notably BDSM, Swinging, and polyamory groups. CSPC welcomes people of all sexual identities and seeks to encompass all consensual sexual practices The Center is a 501(c)(7) recreational club; its sister organization, the Foundation for Sex Positive Culture is a 501(c)(3) charitable/educational organization.\n\nThe organization held its first event, a fundraiser, in March 1999.\n\nThe mission statement of the Center for Sex Positive Culture:\nThe Center for Sex Positive Culture encourages the exploration and celebration of the many facets of human sexuality. Through an encompassing variety of events, created by and for its membership, the CSPC seeks to educate, to facilitate consensual open sexual expression and dialog, and to provide a venue for fellowship and community.\n\nThe vision statement of the Center for Sex Positive Culture:\nAs proponents of sex positive culture, we believe that the appropriate uses of sex extend beyond reproduction. They include creating personal pleasure, bonding interpersonal relationships, promoting spiritual growth, and enhancing emotional and physical health. In a sex positive world, everyone has the freedom and resources to pursue a fulfilling and empowering sex life.\n\nThe CSPC's primary location is a nondescript group of buildings in Seattle's Interbay district. Membership is open to anyone over the age of 18 who has attended an orientation class and agrees to the organization's rules of conduct. There is also an annual membership fee. Volunteers organize and run most events.\n\nThe space includes a library including a wide variety of books on sexuality and kink, as well as several flavors of pornography.\n\nThere are many different on-site events that occur on a weekly or monthly basis. \"Offerings include BDSM focused events, sex and sensual touch focused events, bondage focused events, fetish and fantasy focused events, art focused events, socially focused events, and events specifically for new members.\"\n\nThe same physical space is used in various configurations for different events. Some have only tables and chairs, other prominently feature dungeon equipment with an adjoining social area, plus private spaces for those who wish to avoid voyeurs.\n\nAnnual events organized by the CSPC or FSPC include:\n\nFounded in 1999 as the Seattle Sex Positive Community Center. Socially speaking, it is an outgrowth of Allena Gabosch's \"Beyond the Edge Cafe\", which hosted BDSM related events. Several regulars of the cafe started discussing getting a dedicated space for their activities. One famously quoted \"It would be great if we could get 200 members.\" In fact the idea became more popular than they envisioned; in its first year The Wet Spot registered about 2,000 members. In September 2007, they reached 10,000 registered members, although not all of them are current members. In 2007 the organization also changed its name to the Center for Sex Positive Culture and opened a second, \"annex\" building.\n\nIn November 2008 the Center for Sex Positive Culture was scrutinized in a KOMO-TV report regarding the Center's non-profit status, and the sexual activities which occur there. The story was criticized by Dan Savage and others for inaccuracies, and was later pulled from the station's website.\n\nThe Center lost its long term home in late 2016 when the building they were in was sold to developers. The Center was supposed to open in a new building at 1514 NW 46th Street, in the Ballard section of Seattle in the summer of 2017. However, the new space fell through due to unexpected major seismic upgrades required by the City of Seattle. In April 2018 the Foundation announced a name change to The Pan Eros Foundation and that a new home location for both the Foundation and the Center had been acquired.\n\n"}
{"id": "53338", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53338", "title": "Cervical cancer", "text": "Cervical cancer\n\nCervical cancer is a cancer arising from the cervix. It is due to the abnormal growth of cells that have the ability to invade or spread to other parts of the body. Early on, typically no symptoms are seen. Later symptoms may include abnormal vaginal bleeding, pelvic pain, or pain during sexual intercourse. While bleeding after sex may not be serious, it may also indicate the presence of cervical cancer.\nHuman papillomavirus infection (HPV) causes more than 90% of cases; most people who have had HPV infections, however, do not develop cervical cancer. Other risk factors include smoking, a weak immune system, birth control pills, starting sex at a young age, and having many sexual partners, but these are less important. Cervical cancer typically develops from precancerous changes over 10 to 20 years. About 90% of cervical cancer cases are squamous cell carcinomas, 10% are adenocarcinoma, and a small number are other types. Diagnosis is typically by cervical screening followed by a biopsy. Medical imaging is then done to determine whether or not the cancer has spread.\nHPV vaccines protect against between two and seven high-risk strains of this family of viruses and may prevent up to 90% of cervical cancers. As a risk of cancer still exists, guidelines recommend continuing regular Pap tests. Other methods of prevention include: having few or no sexual partners and the use of condoms. Cervical cancer screening using the Pap test or acetic acid can identify precancerous changes which when treated can prevent the development of cancer. Treatment of cervical cancer may consist of some combination of surgery, chemotherapy, and radiation therapy. Five-year survival rates in the United States are 68%. Outcomes, however, depend very much on how early the cancer is detected.\nWorldwide, cervical cancer is both the fourth-most common cause of cancer and the fourth-most common cause of death from cancer in women. In 2012, an estimated 528,000 cases of cervical cancer occurred, with 266,000 deaths. This is about 8% of the total cases and total deaths from cancer. About 70% of cervical cancers occur in developing countries and 90% of the deaths. In low-income countries, it is one of the most common causes of cancer death. In developed countries, the widespread use of cervical screening programs has dramatically reduced rates of cervical cancer. In medical research, the most famous immortalised cell line, known as HeLa, was developed from cervical cancer cells of a woman named Henrietta Lacks.\n\nThe early stages of cervical cancer may be completely free of symptoms. Vaginal bleeding, contact bleeding (one most common form being bleeding after sexual intercourse), or (rarely) a vaginal mass may indicate the presence of malignancy. Also, moderate pain during sexual intercourse and vaginal discharge are symptoms of cervical cancer. In advanced disease, metastases may be present in the abdomen, lungs, or elsewhere.\n\nSymptoms of advanced cervical cancer may include: loss of appetite, weight loss, fatigue, pelvic pain, back pain, leg pain, swollen legs, heavy vaginal bleeding, bone fractures, and (rarely) leakage of urine or feces from the vagina. Bleeding after douching or after a pelvic exam is a common symptom of cervical cancer.\n\nInfection with some types of HPV is the greatest risk factor for cervical cancer, followed by smoking. HIV infection is also a risk factor. Not all of the causes of cervical cancer are known, however, and several other contributing factors have been implicated.\n\nHuman papillomavirus types 16 and 18 are the cause of 75% of cervical cancer cases globally, while 31 and 45 are the causes of another 10%.\n\nWomen who have sex with men who have many other sexual partners or women who have many sexual partners have a greater risk.\n\nOf the 150-200 types of HPV known, 15 are classified as high-risk types (16, 18, 31, 33, 35, 39, 45, 51, 52, 56, 58, 59, 68, 73, and 82), three as probable high-risk (26, 53, and 66), and 12 as low-risk (6, 11, 40, 42, 43, 44, 54, 61, 70, 72, 81, and CP6108).\n\nGenital warts, which are a form of benign tumor of epithelial cells, are also caused by various strains of HPV. However, these serotypes are usually not related to cervical cancer. It is common to have multiple strains at the same time, including those that can cause cervical cancer along with those that cause warts.\n\nInfection with HPV is generally believed to be required for cervical cancer to occur.\n\nCigarette smoking, both active and passive, increases the risk of cervical cancer. Among HPV-infected women, current and former smokers have roughly two to three times the incidence of invasive cancer. Passive smoking is also associated with increased risk, but to a lesser extent.\n\nSmoking has also been linked to the development of cervical cancer. Smoking can increase the risk in women a few different ways, which can be by direct and indirect methods of inducing cervical cancer. A direct way of contracting this cancer is a smoker has a higher chance of CIN3 occurring which has the potential of forming cervical cancer. When CIN3 lesions lead to cancer, most of them have the assistance of the HPV virus, but that is not always the case, which is why it can be considered a direct link to cervical cancer. Heavy smoking and long-term smoking seem to have more of a risk of getting the CIN3 lesions than lighter smoking or not smoking at all. Although smoking has been linked to cervical cancer, it aids in the development of HPV which is the leading cause of this type of cancer. Also, not only does it aid in the development of HPV, but also if the woman is already HPV-positive, she is at an even greater likelihood of contracting cervical cancer.\n\nLong-term use of oral contraceptives is associated with increased risk of cervical cancer. Women who have used oral contraceptives for 5 to 9 years have about three times the incidence of invasive cancer, and those who used them for 10 years or longer have about four times the risk.\n\nHaving many pregnancies is associated with an increased risk of cervical cancer. Among HPV-infected women, those who have had seven or more full-term pregnancies have around four times the risk of cancer compared with women with no pregnancies, and two to three times the risk of women who have had one or two full-term pregnancies.\n\nThe Pap test can be used as a screening test, but produces a false negative in up to 50% of cases of cervical cancer. Other concerns is the cost of doing pap tests which make it unaffordable in many areas of the world.\n\nConfirmation of the diagnosis of cervical cancer or precancer requires a biopsy of the cervix. This is often done through colposcopy, a magnified visual inspection of the cervix aided by using a dilute acetic acid (e.g. vinegar) solution to highlight abnormal cells on the surface of the cervix. Medical devices used for biopsy of the cervix include punch forceps among others.\n\nColposcopic impression, the estimate of disease severity based on the visual inspection, forms part of the diagnosis.\n\nFurther diagnostic and treatment procedures are loop electrical excision procedure and cervical conization, in which the inner lining of the cervix is removed to be examined pathologically. These are carried out if the biopsy confirms severe cervical intraepithelial neoplasia.\n\nOften before the biopsy, the doctor asks for medical imaging to rule out other causes of woman's symptoms. Imaging modalities such as ultrasound, CT scan and MRI have been used to look for alternating disease, spread of tumor and effect on adjacent structures. Typically, they appear as heterogeneous mass in the cervix.\n\nCervical intraepithelial neoplasia, the potential precursor to cervical cancer, is often diagnosed on examination of cervical biopsies by a pathologist. For premalignant dysplastic changes, cervical intraepithelial neoplasia grading is used.\n\nThe naming and histologic classification of cervical carcinoma precursor lesions has changed many times over the 20th century. The World Health Organization classification system was descriptive of the lesions, naming them mild, moderate, or severe dysplasia or carcinoma in situ (CIS). The term, cervical intraepithelial neoplasia (CIN) was developed to place emphasis on the spectrum of abnormality in these lesions, and to help standardise treatment. It classifies mild dysplasia as CIN1, moderate dysplasia as CIN2, and severe dysplasia and CIS as CIN3. More recently, CIN2 and CIN3 have been combined into CIN2/3. These results are what a pathologist might report from a biopsy.\n\nThese should not be confused with the Bethesda system terms for Pap test (cytopathology) results. Among the Bethesda results: Low-grade Squamous Intraepithelial Lesion (LSIL) and High-grade Squamous Intraepithelial Lesion (HSIL). An LSIL Pap may correspond to CIN1, and HSIL may correspond to CIN2 and CIN3, however, they are results of different tests, and the Pap test results need not match the histologic findings.\n\nHistologic subtypes of invasive cervical carcinoma include the following: Though squamous cell carcinoma is the cervical cancer with the most incidence, the incidence of adenocarcinoma of the cervix has been increasing in recent decades.\n\nNoncarcinoma malignancies which can rarely occur in the cervix include melanoma and lymphoma. The FIGO stage does not incorporate lymph node involvement in contrast to the TNM staging for most other cancers.\n\nFor cases treated surgically, information obtained from the pathologist can be used in assigning a separate pathologic stage, but is not to replace the original clinical stage.\n\nCervical cancer is staged by the International Federation of Gynecology and Obstetrics (FIGO) staging system, which is based on clinical examination, rather than surgical findings. It allows only these diagnostic tests to be used in determining the stage: palpation, inspection, colposcopy, endocervical curettage, hysteroscopy, cystoscopy, proctoscopy, intravenous urography, and X-ray examination of the lungs and skeleton, and cervical conization.\n\nChecking the cervix by the Papanicolaou test (Pap test), for cervical cancer has dramatically reduced the number of cases of and mortality from cervical cancer in developed countries. Pap test screening every three to five years with appropriate follow-up can reduce cervical cancer incidence up to 80%. Abnormal results may suggest the presence of precancerous changes, allowing examination and possible preventive treatment. The treatment of low-grade lesions may adversely affect subsequent fertility and pregnancy. Personal invitations encouraging women to get screened are effective at increasing the likelihood they will do so. Educational materials also help increase the likelihood women will go for screening, but they are not as effective as invitations.\n\nAccording to the 2010 European guidelines, the age at which to start screening ranges between 20 and 30 years of age, but preferentially not before age 25 or 30 years, and depends on burden of the disease in the population and the available resources.\n\nIn the United States, screening is recommended to begin at age 21, regardless of age at which a woman began having sex or other risk factors. Pap tests should be done every three years between the ages of 21 and 65. In women over the age of 65, screening may be discontinued if no abnormal screening results were seen within the previous 10 years and no history of CIN 2 or higher exists. HPV vaccination status does not change screening rates. \n\nThere are a number of recommended options for screening those 30 to 65. This includes cervical cytology every 3 years, HPV testing every 5 years, or HPV testing together with cytology every 5 years. Screening is not beneficial before age 25 as the rate of disease is low. Screening is not beneficial in women older than 60 years if they have a history of negative results. The American Society of Clinical Oncology (ASCO) guideline has recommend for different levels of resource availability.\n\nLiquid-based cytology is another potential screening method. Although it was probably intended to improve on the accuracy of the Pap test, its main advantage has been to reduce the number of inadequate smears from around 9% to around 1%. This reduces the need to recall women for a further smear. The United States Preventive Services Task Force supports screening every 5 years in those who are between 30 and 65 years when cytology is used in combination with HPV testing.\n\nPap tests have not been as effective in developing countries. This is in part because many of these countries have an impoverished health care infrastructure, too few trained and skilled professionals to obtain and interepret Pap tests, uninformed women who get lost to follow-up, and a lengthy turn-around time to get results. These realities have resulted in the investigation of cervical screening approaches that use fewer resources and offer rapid results such as visual inspection with acetic acid or HPV DNA testing.\n\nBarrier protection and/or spermicidal gel use during sexual intercourse decreases cancer risk. Condoms offer protection against cervical cancer. Evidence on whether condoms protect against HPV infection is mixed, but they may protect against genital warts and the precursors to cervical cancer. They also provide protection against other STIs, such as HIV and \"Chlamydia\", which are associated with greater risks of developing cervical cancer.\n\nCondoms may also be useful in treating potentially precancerous changes in the cervix. Exposure to semen appears to increase the risk of precancerous changes (CIN 3), and use of condoms helps to cause these changes to regress and helps clear HPV. One study suggests that prostaglandin in semen may fuel the growth of cervical and uterine tumors and that affected women may benefit from the use of condoms.\n\nAbstinence also prevents HPV infection.\n\nTwo HPV vaccines (Gardasil and Cervarix) reduce the risk of cancerous or precancerous changes of the cervix and perineum by about 93% and 62%, respectively. The vaccines are between 92% and 100% effective against HPV 16 and 18 up to at least 8 years.\n\nHPV vaccines are typically given to age 9 to 26, as the vaccine is only effective if given before infection occurs. The vaccines have been shown to be effective for at least four to six years, and they are believed to be effective for longer; however, the duration of effectiveness and whether a booster will be needed is unknown. The high cost of this vaccine has been a cause for concern. Several countries have considered (or are considering) programs to fund HPV vaccination.\n\nSince 2010, young women in Japan have been eligible to receive the cervical cancer vaccination for free. In June 2013, the Japanese Ministry of Health, Labor and Welfare mandated that, before administering the vaccine, medical institutions must inform women that the Ministry does not recommend it. However, the vaccine is still available at no cost to Japanese women who choose to accept the vaccination.\n\nVitamin A is associated with a lower risk as are vitamin B12, vitamin C, vitamin E, and beta-Carotene.\n\nThe treatment of cervical cancer varies worldwide, largely due to access to surgeons skilled in radical pelvic surgery, and the emergence of fertility-sparing therapy in developed nations. Because cervical cancers are radiosensitive, radiation may be used in all stages where surgical options do not exist. Surgical intervention may have better outcomes than radiological approaches. In addition, chemotherapy can be used to treat cervical cancer, and has been found to be more effective than radiation alone.\n\nMicroinvasive cancer (stage IA) may be treated by hysterectomy (removal of the whole uterus including part of the vagina). For stage IA2, the lymph nodes are removed, as well. Alternatives include local surgical procedures such as a loop electrical excision procedure or cone biopsy.\n\nIf a cone biopsy does not produce clear margins (findings on biopsy showing that the tumor is surrounded by cancer free tissue, suggesting all of the tumor is removed), one more possible treatment option for women who want to preserve their fertility is a trachelectomy. This attempts to surgically remove the cancer while preserving the ovaries and uterus, providing for a more conservative operation than a hysterectomy. It is a viable option for those in stage I cervical cancer which has not spread; however, it is not yet considered a standard of care, as few doctors are skilled in this procedure. Even the most experienced surgeon cannot promise that a trachelectomy can be performed until after surgical microscopic examination, as the extent of the spread of cancer is unknown. If the surgeon is not able to microscopically confirm clear margins of cervical tissue once the woman is under general anesthesia in the operating room, a hysterectomy may still be needed. This can only be done during the same operation if the woman has given prior consent. Due to the possible risk of cancer spread to the lymph nodes in stage 1b cancers and some stage 1a cancers, the surgeon may also need to remove some lymph nodes from around the uterus for pathologic evaluation.\n\nA radical trachelectomy can be performed abdominally or vaginally and opinions are conflicting as to which is better. A radical abdominal trachelectomy with lymphadenectomy usually only requires a two- to three-day hospital stay, and most women recover very quickly (about six weeks). Complications are uncommon, although women who are able to conceive after surgery are susceptible to preterm labor and possible late miscarriage. A wait of at least one year is generally recommended before attempting to become pregnant after surgery. Recurrence in the residual cervix is very rare if the cancer has been cleared with the trachelectomy. Yet, women are recommended to practice vigilant prevention and follow-up care including Pap screenings/colposcopy, with biopsies of the remaining lower uterine segment as needed (every 3–4 months for at least 5 years) to monitor for any recurrence in addition to minimizing any new exposures to HPV through safe sex practices until one is actively trying to conceive.\n\nEarly stages (IB1 and IIA less than 4 cm) can be treated with radical hysterectomy with removal of the lymph nodes or radiation therapy. Radiation therapy is given as external beam radiotherapy to the pelvis and brachytherapy (internal radiation). Women treated with surgery who have high-risk features found on pathologic examination are given radiation therapy with or without chemotherapy to reduce the risk of relapse.\nLarger early-stage tumors (IB2 and IIA more than 4 cm) may be treated with radiation therapy and cisplatin-based chemotherapy, hysterectomy (which then usually requires adjuvant radiation therapy), or cisplatin chemotherapy followed by hysterectomy. When cisplatin is present, it is thought to be the most active single agent in periodic diseases. Such addition of platinum-based chemotherapy to chemoradiation seems not only to improve survival but also reduces risk of recurrence in women with early stage cervical cancer (IA2-IIA).\n\nAdvanced-stage tumors (IIB-IVA) are treated with radiation therapy and cisplatin-based chemotherapy. On June 15, 2006, the US Food and Drug Administration approved the use of a combination of two chemotherapy drugs, hycamtin and cisplatin, for women with late-stage (IVB) cervical cancer treatment. Combination treatment has significant risk of neutropenia, anemia, and thrombocytopenia side effects.\n\nFor surgery to be curative, the entire cancer must be removed with no cancer found at the margins of the removed tissue on examination under a microscope. This procedure is known as exenteration.\nPrognosis depends on the stage of the cancer. The chance of a survival rate is nearly 100% for women with microscopic forms of cervical cancer. With treatment, the five-year relative survival rate for the earliest stage of invasive cervical cancer is 92%, and the overall (all stages combined) five-year survival rate is about 72%. These statistics may be improved when applied to women newly diagnosed, bearing in mind that these outcomes may be partly based on the state of treatment five years ago when the women studied were first diagnosed.\n\nWith treatment, 80-90% of women with stage I cancer and 60-75% of those with stage II cancer are alive 5 years after diagnosis. Survival rates decrease to 30-40% for women with stage III cancer and 15% or fewer of those with stage IV cancer five years after diagnosis. Recurrent cervical cancer detected at its earliest stages might be successfully treated with surgery, radiation, chemotherapy, or a combination of the three. About 35% of women with invasive cervical cancer have persistent or recurrent disease after treatment.\n\nFive year survival in the United States for White women is 69% and for Black women is 57%.\n\nRegular screening has meant that precancerous changes and early-stage cervical cancers have been detected and treated early. Figures suggest that cervical screening is saving 5,000 lives each year in the UK by preventing cervical cancer.\nAbout 1,000 women per year die of cervical cancer in the UK. All of the Nordic countries have cervical cancer-screening programs in place. The Pap test was integrated into clinical practice in the Nordic countries in the 1960s.\n\nIn Africa outcomes are often worse as diagnosis is frequently at a latter stage of disease.\n\nWorldwide, cervical cancer is both the fourth-most common cause of cancer and deaths from cancer in women. In 2012, 528,000 cases of cervical cancer were estimated to have occurred, with 266,000 deaths. It is the second-most common cause of female-specific cancer after breast cancer, accounting for around 8% of both total cancer cases and total cancer deaths in women. About 80% of cervical cancers occur in developing countries. It is the most frequently detected cancer during pregnancy, with an occurrence of 1.5 to 12 for every 100,000 pregnancies.\n\nAustralia had 734 cases of cervical cancer in 2005. The number of women diagnosed with cervical cancer has dropped on average by 4.5% each year since organised screening began in 1991 (1991–2005). Regular twice-yearly Pap tests can reduce the incidence of cervical cancer up to 90% in Australia, and save 1,200 Australian women from dying from the disease each year. It is predicted that because of the success of the primary HPV testing programme there will be fewer than four new cases per 100 000 women annually by 2028.\n\nIn Canada, an estimated 1,300 women will have been diagnosed with cervical cancer in 2008 and 380 will have died.\n\nIn India, the number of people with cervical cancer is rising, but overall the age-adjusted rates are decreasing. Usage of condoms in the female population has improved the survival of women with cancers of the cervix.\n\nIn the European Union, about 34,000 new cases per year and over 16,000 deaths due to cervical cancer occurred in 2004.\n\nCervical cancer is the 12th-most common cancer in women in the UK (around 3,100 women were diagnosed with the disease in 2011), and accounts for 1% of cancer deaths (around 920 died in 2012). With a 42% reduction from 1988–1997, the NHS-implemented screening programme has been highly successful, screening the highest-risk age group (25–49 years) every 3 years, and those ages 50–64 every 5 years.\n\nAn estimated 12,900 new cervical cancers and 4,100 cervical cancer deaths will occur in the United States in 2015. In the United States, it is the eighth-most common cancer of women. The median age at diagnosis is 48. Hispanic women are significantly more likely to be diagnosed with cervical cancer than the general population. In 1998, about 12,800 women were diagnosed in the US and about 4,800 died. In 2014, an estimated 12,360 new cases were expected to be diagnosed, and about 4,020 were expected to die of cervical cancer. Among cancers of the female reproductive tract it is less common than endometrial cancer and ovarian cancer. The rates of new cases in the United States was 7 per 100,000 women in 2004. Cervical cancer deaths decreased by approximately 74% in the last 50 years, largely due to widespread Pap test screening. The annual direct medical cost of cervical cancer prevention and treatment prior to introduction of the HPV vaccine was estimated at $6 billion.\n\n\nEpidemiologists working in the early 20th century noted that cervical cancer behaved like a sexually transmitted disease. In summary:\n\n\nThese historical observations suggested that cervical cancer could be caused by a sexually transmitted agent. Initial research in the 1940s and 1950s attributed cervical cancer to smegma (e.g. Heins \"et al.\" 1958). During the 1960s and 1970s it was suspected that infection with herpes simplex virus was the cause of the disease. In summary, HSV was seen as a likely cause because it is known to survive in the female reproductive tract, to be transmitted sexually in a way compatible with known risk factors, such as promiscuity and low socioeconomic status. Herpes viruses were also implicated in other malignant diseases, including Burkitt's lymphoma, Nasopharyngeal carcinoma, Marek's disease and the Lucké renal adenocarcinoma. HSV was recovered from cervical tumour cells.\n\nA description of human papillomavirus (HPV) by electron microscopy was given in 1949, and HPV-DNA was identified in 1963. It was not until the 1980s that HPV was identified in cervical cancer tissue. It has since been demonstrated that HPV is implicated in virtually all cervical cancers. Specific viral subtypes implicated are HPV 16, 18, 31, 45 and others.\n\nIn work that was initiated in the mid 1980s, the HPV vaccine was developed, in parallel, by researchers at Georgetown University Medical Center, the University of Rochester, the University of Queensland in Australia, and the U.S. National Cancer Institute. In 2006, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved the first preventive HPV vaccine, marketed by Merck & Co. under the trade name Gardasil.\n\nIn Australia, Aboriginal women are more than five times more likely to die from cervical cancer than non-Aboriginal women, suggesting that Aboriginal women are less likely to have regular Pap tests. There are several factors that may limit indigenous women from engaging in regular cervical screening practices, including sensitivity in discussing the topic in Aboriginal communities, embarrassment, anxiety and fear about the procedure. Difficulty in accessing screening services (for example, transport difficulties) and a lack of female GPs, trained Pap test providers and trained female Aboriginal Health Workers are also issues.\n\nThe Australian Cervical Cancer Foundation (ACCF), founded in 2008, promotes 'women’s health by eliminating cervical cancer and enabling treatment for women with cervical cancer and related health issues, in Australia and in developing countries.' Ian Frazer, one of the developers of the Gardasil cervical cancer vaccine, is the scientific advisor to ACCF. Janette Howard, the wife of former Australian Prime Minister John Howard, was diagnosed with cervical cancer in 1996, and first spoke on her battle with the disease in 2006.\n\nA 2007 survey of American women found 40% had heard of HPV infection and less than half of those knew it causes cervical cancer. Over a longitudinal study from 1975-2000, it was found that people of lower socioeconomic census brackets had higher rates of late-stage cancer diagnosis and higher morbidity rates. After controlling for stage, there still existed differences in survival rates.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32843140", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32843140", "title": "Chemotherapy-induced peripheral neuropathy", "text": "Chemotherapy-induced peripheral neuropathy\n\nChemotherapy-induced peripheral neuropathy (CIPN) is a progressive, enduring, and often irreversible condition featuring pain, numbness, tingling and sensitivity to cold in the hands and feet (sometimes progressing to the arms and legs) that afflicts between 30% and 40% of patients undergoing chemotherapy. Chemotherapy drugs associated with CIPN include thalidomide, the epothilones such as ixabepilone, the vinca alkaloids vincristine and vinblastine, the taxanes paclitaxel and docetaxel, the proteasome inhibitors such as bortezomib, and the platinum-based drugs cisplatin, oxaliplatin and carboplatin. Whether CIPN arises, and to what degree, is determined by the choice of drug, duration of use, the total amount received and whether the patient already has peripheral neuropathy. Though the symptoms are mainly sensory – pain, tingling, numbness and temperature sensitivity – in some cases motor nerves are affected, and occasionally, also, the autonomic nervous system.\n\nCIPN often follows the first chemotherapy dose and increases in severity as treatment continues, but this progression usually levels off at completion of treatment. The platinum-based drugs are the exception; with these drugs, sensation may continue to deteriorate for several months after the end of treatment. Some CIPN appears to be irreversible. Pain can often be helped with drug or other treatment but the numbness is usually resistant to treatment.\n\nCIPN disrupts leisure, work, and family relations, and the pain of CIPN is often accompanied by sleep and mood disturbance, fatigue and functional difficulties. A 2007 American Cancer Society study found that most patients did not recall being told to expect CIPN, and doctors monitoring the condition rarely asked how it affects daily living but focused on practical effects such as dexterity and gait. It is not known what causes the condition, but microtubule and mitochondrial damage, and leaky blood vessels near nerve cells are some of the possibilities being explored.\n\n\n\nThe anticonvulsant valproate, an effective treatment for diabetic neuropathy, appeared to offer some protection against cisplatin-induced neuropathy in rats.\n\nInterleukin-6 prevented peripheral nerve damage in animals without inhibiting the anti-cancer effect.\n\nAs possible preventative interventions, the American National Cancer Institute Symptom Management and Health-related Quality of Life Steering Committee recommends continued investigation of several dietary supplements, including glutathione, and intravenous calcium and magnesium, which have shown early promise in limited human trials; acetyl-L-carnitine, which was effective in animal models and on diabetes and HIV patients; and the anti-oxidant alpha-lipoic acid.\n\nGlutathione was studied in two large double-blind placebo-controlled trials and seemed to reduce neurotoxicity without interfering with the therapeutic effect, but shortcomings in the trial designs make confident interpretation of the results impossible. As of September 2013, patients are being recruited for a more definitive study.\n\nIn a study of patients receiving oxaliplatin treatment, only 4 percent of those also receiving intravenous calcium and magnesium (ca/mg) before and after each oxaliplatin dose had to discontinue treatment due to neurotoxicity, compared to 33 percent who were receiving intravenous placebo; onset of neuropathy was also significantly delayed in the ca/mg patients, and only 22 percent of the ca/mg patients had long-term CIPN of grade 2 or worse compared with 41 percent of those on placebo. Overall, trials of ca/mg infusion suggest there are no serious harmful side effects and it may be an effective preventative therapy — the number of patients so far studied is small, however, and confident conclusions cannot be drawn.\n\nTwo small randomized controlled trials (RCTs) and one larger RCT (86 subjects) tested glutamine in the prevention of platinum treatment-induced neuropathy and showed promise. As of September 2013 a larger, placebo-controlled trial is running.\n\nA 2013 systematic review of the use of acetyl-L-carnitine, glutamine, vitamin E, glutathione, vitamin B6, omega-3 fatty acids, magnesium, calcium, alpha lipoic acid and n-acetyl cysteine as anti-CIPN adjuvants concluded that \"currently no agent has shown solid beneficial evidence to be recommended for the treatment or prophylaxis of CIPN.\"\n"}
{"id": "5335881", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5335881", "title": "Children's Hospital Association", "text": "Children's Hospital Association\n\nThe Children's Hospital Association (CHA), is an organization of children's hospitals with more than 200 members in the United States, Australia, Canada, Italy, Mexico and Puerto Rico.\n\nCHA has offices located in Lenexa, Kansas and Washington, D.C. \n\nThe Association promotes the health and well-being of all children and their families through support of children's hospitals and health systems for children. CHA works to ensure all children's access to health care and children's hospitals' continuing ability to provide services needed by children. CHA coordinates federal advocacy on behalf of their member hospitals, as well as provides a variety of services including quality improvement, data analytics and insurance services.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41769165", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41769165", "title": "Dario Altieri", "text": "Dario Altieri\n\nDario Carlo Altieri, M.D., is a researcher who works as director of The Wistar Institute Cancer Center in Philadelphia. In 2015, he became the CEO of The Wistar Institute.\n\nHis research has focused on Inhibitors of Apoptosis (IAP), a family of genes essential for proliferation and survival of cells. His work has identified survivin, one of these IAP genes, is over-produced in almost every human cancer, and his team is currently studying the biology of survivin and how it could be used to develop treatments for cancer.\n\nAltieri has also been involved in the development of gamitrinib, a Hsp90 inhibitor that was shown to disable the activity of mitochondria in cancerous cells.\n\nIn 2013, Altieri and his team received a $1.5 million grant from the Department of Defense to prepare the drug for human trials.\nPrior to joining Wistar, Altieri was the founding chair of the Department of Cancer Biology at the University of Massachusetts Medical School. He also co-founded the Cancer Biology Training Consortium and the Pancreatic Cancer alliance in 2005.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14831729", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14831729", "title": "Dental school", "text": "Dental school\n\nA dental school (school of dental medicine, school of dentistry, dental college) is a tertiary educational institution—or part of such an institution—that teaches dental medicine to prospective dentists. Upon successful completion, the graduate receives a degree in Dentistry, Dental Surgery, or Dental Medicine, which, depending upon the jurisdiction, might be a bachelor's degree, master's degree, a professional degree, or a doctorate. Schools can also offer postgraduate training in general dentistry, and/or training in endodontics, oral and maxillofacial surgery, oral pathology, oral and maxillofacial radiology, orthodontics, pedodontics, periodontics, prosthodontics, or dental public health.\n\nIn the European Union, Dental assistants, dental hygienists, dental nurses, dental technicians, dental therapists, or other members of the dental auxiliary are trained in universities of applied science or polytechnics.\n\nSometimes dental education is done within medical schools, as in Pakistan; the separation between medical and dental educations is also blurred within certain sub-specialties, such as oral and maxillofacial surgery.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43125166", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43125166", "title": "Devereux Foundation", "text": "Devereux Foundation\n\nThe Devereux Foundation is a nonprofit behavioral health organization that operates programs and services in 11 U.S. states, working with children and adults with developmental disabilities, emotional and behavioral disorders, and mental illnesses. It is one of the oldest and largest nonprofit providers of behavioral healthcare in the United States. Its operations include psychiatric hospitals, residential treatment centers, group homes, respite care, supported living, foster care, special education, and vocational education.\n\nHelena T. Devereux founded the first Devereux School in Philadelphia in 1912, after having taught special education in the School District of Philadelphia. By 1918, Devereux moved her operation to Devon, Pennsylvania and began acquiring properties throughout Chester County, Pennsylvania and along the Philadelphia Main Line to accommodate her rapidly expanding programs. The Devereux Foundation was established as a nonprofit organization in 1938.\nThe organization's first major expansion, to California, was aided by support from the Max Factor Family Foundation. In 1945, the Devereux Foundation opened a school and residential treatment center on the Campbell Ranch in Santa Barbara County. Devereux Hall was designated Historical Landmark No. 27 by the County of Santa Barbara on September 8, 1987.\n\nToday the Devereux Foundation has centers in the following locations:\n\n"}
{"id": "26942638", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26942638", "title": "Drug Equality Alliance", "text": "Drug Equality Alliance\n\nThe Drug Equality Alliance is a not for profit organisation based in the United Kingdom whose mission statement is:\n\n[...] to transform the \"War on Some People who use Some Drugs\" from its subjective historical and cultural roots into a rational and objective legal regulatory framework that secures equal rights and equal protection to all those who are concerned with dangerous or otherwise harmful drugs. Our mission is to use domestic and international legal jurisdictions to interrogate the law and its application to those who produce, commerce, possess and consume such drugs.\n\nThe Drug Equality Alliance believes that the UK Government is administering the Misuse of Drugs Act 1971 in an arbitrary and discriminatory manner. This is contrary to the purpose of the Act, contrary to the original wishes of Parliament, conflicts with the European Convention on Human Rights, and is therefore illegal. It argues that the penalties associated with the possession, production and supply of various controlled substances are not proportional to the relative harms which these substances cause to individuals and society, especially since two of the most dangerous drugs, alcohol and tobacco, are presently excluded from the Act. The Drug Equality Alliance is currently assisting and supporting several legal challenges in relation to this alleged maladminstration.\n\nAs evidence that the Misuse of Drugs Act 1971 is being administered arbitrarily, the Drug Equality Alliance cites the following admission made by the Government in \"The Government Reply to the Fifth Report from the House of Commons Science and Technology Committee Session 2005-6 HC 1031: Drug classification: making a hash of it?\" (Cm 6941):\n\n...the Government acknowledges that alcohol and tobacco account for more health problems and deaths than illicit drugs... The distinction between legal and illegal substances is not unequivocally based on pharmacology, economic or risk benefit analysis. It is also based in large part on historical and cultural precedents.\n\nIn March 2010, in response to a Freedom of Information request process submitted by Casey William Hardison, acting with the Drug Equality Alliance, the Information Commissioner's Office ordered the Home Office to disclose a suppressed draft consultation paper with suggestions for a review of the drug classification system. This decision was subject to a last minute appeal by the Home Office, but the appeal was withdrawn on 9 July 2010 and the consultation paper was released on 12 July 2010.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58460201", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58460201", "title": "Ethical guidelines for treating trauma survivors", "text": "Ethical guidelines for treating trauma survivors\n\nTrauma survivors are a distinctive population with varying displays of resilience, posttraumatic growth, and resulting mental disorders. Mental health professionals who treat trauma survivors must incorporate specific ethical considerations when working with clients who have a history of trauma. \n\nWithin the field of psychology, ethics define the standards of professional conduct. The American Psychological Association (APA) describes their Ethics Code as a “common set of principles and standards upon which psychologists build their professional and scientific work” (p. 8). Ethics help clinicians to think through and critically analyze situations, while also serving as aspirations and virtues that clinicians should strive towards. When working with trauma survivors, often times client’s traumatic experiences can be so overwhelming for both the patient and the clinician that professional and ethical boundaries may become endangered.\n\nThe following ethical guidelines should be considered when working with clients who have survived a traumatic experience: \n\nThe APA ethics code outlines many professional guidelines for clinicians including the maintenance of confidentiality, minimizing intrusions to privacy, and obtaining informed consent. Informed consent ensures the client has an adequate understanding of the techniques and procedures that will be used during therapy, expected timeline for treatment, and possible consequences for engaging in specific tasks and goals.\n\nWhen clinicians work with trauma survivors their informed consent should emphasize diagnosis and treatment of trauma and include clear guidelines for maintaining secure and firm boundaries. Some research suggests that clients who have experienced complex trauma may deliberately or unconsciously test clinician’s boundaries by missing or arriving late for appointments, bringing the clinician gifts, attempting to photograph the therapist, calling during non-office hours, or trying to extend the session either in person or with a follow-up phone call.\n\nResearch suggests that trauma survivors are more likely than those without a history of trauma to report suicidal ideation and to engage in self-harming behaviors. Furthermore, research also indicates that suicide attempts are correlated with both childhood maltreatment and PTSD symptom severity. Clinicians who treat trauma survivors should continuously monitor their client’s suicidal ideation, means, and plans especially surrounding anniversary dates and triggering experiences. Client safety should be prioritized when working with trauma survivors, and should include immediately assessing client safety following intense sessions and frequent follow-ups with clients between sessions.\n\nThe APA outlines General Principles that clinicians should use in order to aspire towards the very highest ethical ideals. Among these General Principles are Principle A: Beneficence and Nonmaleficence and Principle C: Integrity. Beneficence and Nonmaleficence describes that clinicians strive to benefit those with whom they work, and make efforts to do no harm. Fidelity and Responsibility includes establishing relationships of trust and being aware of one’s professional responsibilities. Both of these principles should be considered when a clinician attempts to establish and maintain a strong therapeutic alliance with trauma survivors.  \n\nFor clients with a history of trauma, particularly those who have experienced betrayal trauma, forging close and trusting relationships with others may be difficult. In addition, during the course of therapy clients may discuss terrifying, horrific, or disturbing experiences, which may elicit strong reactions from the therapist. Some of the possible negative reactions could include distancing and emotional detachment, which may reinforce clients’ often negative schemas and self-image. Clinicians may also contribute to the challenges of establishing a strong therapeutic alliance by becoming overly inquisitive about the client’s traumatic experience, which, in turn, may lead to a lack of accurate empathy. For these reasons, clinicians treating those with a history of trauma may encounter unique challenges when attempting to develop a strong therapeutic alliance. \n\nWithin the course of traditional therapy it is possible for transference and counter transference to interfere with treatment. For clinicians treating those with a history of trauma it is possible to experience “a priori counter-transference”. A priori counter-transference includes the thoughts, feelings, and prejudices that may arise before meeting with a potential client as a result of knowing that the client has gone through a certain traumatic event. These initial reactions may create ethical dilemmas as the clinician’s personal attitudes, beliefs, and values may become compromised, thereby increasing the amount of counter-transference the clinician may have towards the client. The APA ethics code 2.06(b) describes a clinician’s ethical responsibility should personal situations interfere with a clinician’s ability to perform their duties adequately. Clinicians experiencing a priori counter-transference should consider utilizing more frequent consultations, receive increased levels of personal therapy, or consider limiting, suspending, or terminating their work-related duties. \n\nDutton and Painter originally coined the term “traumatic bonding” to describe the relationship bond that occurs between the perpetrator and victim of abusive relationships. As a result of ongoing cycles of positive and traumatic experiences powerful emotional bonds are created that are resistant to change. The term can also be borrowed to describe the relationship between a trauma clinician and the client. As the client describes their traumatic memories and re-experiences the accompanying powerful emotions and sensations they are prone to form a remarkably intense bond with their clinician. These emotionally driven experiences present ethical challenges and pitfalls for the clinician including behaving in extremes such as acting in an overprotective manner or distancing themselves from the client. The clinician may also feel triggered by their own similar trauma history, causing unnecessary discloses or the need to share the client’s story in order to seek revenge or justice. The APA ethics code 2.06(a) describes that clinicians should refrain from practicing if they know there is a substantial likelihood that their personal problems will prevent them from being objective or competent. Clinicians who recognize that traumatic bonding might be occurring should increase consultations or consider limiting, suspending, or terminating their work-related duties. \n"}
{"id": "32365702", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32365702", "title": "Friendship (NGO)", "text": "Friendship (NGO)\n\nFriendship is a needs-driven non-governmental organisation that works in the Char islands and riverbanks of northern Bangladesh, the coastal belt in the south, and as of 2017, the Rohingya refugee camps in Ukhia, Cox's Bazar in the southeast. Established by Runa Khan in 2002, Friendship works to empower people through a sustainable, integrated development approach.\n\nFriendship employees more than 1,500 employees that includes field staff, regional office staff, staff in the floating hospitals, teachers at Friendship schools, trainers at vocational schools, organizers and supervisors working in the northern and southern parts of the country and head office staff based in Dhaka.\n\nFriendship's first project was a floating hospital. French sailor and aviator Yves Marre sailed a river barge from France to Bangladesh to donate it for use by the people of Bangladesh. Runa Khan eventually converted the river barge to a floating hospital, the Lifebuoy Friendship Hospital (LFH).\n\nSince then, Friendship has developed a healthcare system to provide primary healthcare and certain surgical procedures to river-based communities who are often difficult to reach from the mainland. The NGO now has introduced two more floating hospitals: the Emirates Friendship Hospital in 2008 sponsored by the Emirates Airline Foundation and the Rongdhonu Friendship Hospital, former Rainbow Warrior II from Greenpeace, in 2012. It has received a donation through the Islamic Development Bank for the operation and construction of five more hospital ships. The keel has been laid for the five new ships in December 2017.\n\nStarting from 2005, a system of mobile Satellite Clinics was set up, complemented by health workers to serve communities at the grassroots level. Presently, each month, approximately 250,000 persons are treated by Friendship's health program.\n\nFriendship also has projects in education, disaster management, good governance, sustainable economic development and cultural preservation. Today Friendship helps about 500,000 people every month.\n\nRuna Khan is a Bangladeshi social entrepreneur and the founder and executive director of Friendship NGO. Friendship is based on Runa Khan's model of “integrated development,” meaning it addresses problems in multiple sectors, including health, education, disaster management and economic development in communities where it is involved, rather than specializing in one of these.\n\nKhan won the Rolex Awards for Enterprise in 2006 for work through Friendship to preserve the declining craft of traditional boat building in Bangladesh.\n\nKhan also established a tourism company, Contic, in 1996 which gives tours on traditional wooden boats. Earlier, she wrote text-books for children with the aim of moving away from rote learning, an effort that won her the Ashoka Fellowship in 1994.\n\nFriendship supports communities mainly in the shifting northern river islands, known as chars, of the Brahmaputra and Jamuna rivers and in the coastal areas of the Bay of Bengal. Friendship is active in 22 Upazilas over 12 Districts of Bangladesh. Today, its operations are most intense and multi-Sectoral in the districts of Kurigram and Gaibandha in the North, and Patuakali and Satkhira in the South.\n\nThree years after Friendship went into operation in Bangladesh, Runa Khan took steps to set up a network of supporting organisations in Europe. Today Friendship is present in 5 countries in Europe including Luxembourg, France, Netherlands, UK and Germany.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56797070", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56797070", "title": "Grossman model of health demand", "text": "Grossman model of health demand\n\nThe Grossman model of health demand is a model for studying the demand for health and medical care outlined by Michael Grossman in a monograph in 1972 entitled: \"The demand for health: A theoretical and empirical investigation\". The model based demand for medical care on the interaction between a demand function for health and a production function for health. Andrew Jones, Nigel Rice, and Paul Contoyannis call the model the \"founding father of demand for health models\".\n\nIn this model, health is a durable capital good which is inherited and depreciates over time. Investment in health takes the form of medical care purchases and other inputs and depreciation is interpreted as natural deterioration of health over time. In the model, health enters the utility function directly as a good people derive pleasure from and indirectly as an investment which makes more healthy time available for market and non-market activities.\n\nThe model creates a dynamic system of equations which can be cast as an optimization problem where utility is optimized over gross investment in health in each period, consumption of medical care, and time inputs in the gross investment function in each period. In this way, the length of life of the agent is partially endogenous to the model.\n\nDynamic optimization problems are often optimized using comparative statics, setting partial derivatives of the outcome function of interest, in this case the utility function, equal to zero. When the partial derivative of the utility function with respect to health consumption is assumed to equal zero, the resulting sub-model is the investment model. Solutions to the problem of this sub-model generally show that the rate of return on health capital must equal the opportunity cost of said capital. Thus, increases in the depreciation rate over time cause the optimal stock of health to decrease. If the marginal efficiency of capital curve is inelastic, gross investment grows over time. In practical terms, this model thus predicts that older people will have more sick time and time spent on increasing health and have higher medical expenditures than younger people. Another implication is that since increases in wages shift the marginal efficiency of capital curve to the right and increases the curve's slope, an increase in wage will increase the demand for health capital.\n\nThe Grossman model was extended in a number of directions. Among the first to include uncertainty in the model were Charles Phelps and Maureen Cropper.\n\nThe relationship between education and health was expanded in the model by Isaac Ehrlich. Regarding the relationship between education and medical care demand, one important question is whether the marginal efficiency of capital elasticity with respect to education is less than or greater than one. If the curve is elastic (elasticity greater than one), education will increase medical care demand. On the other hand, if the curve is inelastic, education will decrease medical care demand.\n\nJan Acton expanded the time constraint by including travel and waiting time in health care.\n\nImportant empirical studies into these components include the RAND Health Insurance Study led by Joseph Newhouse in the 1970s, 1980s, and 1990s. This study sought to estimate income, money price, and time price elasticities of demand for medical care. Another important study was the Oregon Health Insurance in the late 2000s and also estimated the role of public health provision on healthcare demand and was led by Katherine Baicker and Amy Finkelstein.\n\nIn the model, health is neither a pure investment good nor a pure consumption good, but health stock benefits the agent in two ways, directly increasing utility and second by increasing healthy time available for other activities. One early criticism is that framing health as a dicotomous concept is intuitively wrong in that health is simultaneously both and health provides both alternatives simultaneously.\n\n"}
{"id": "521249", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=521249", "title": "Harry Hopkins", "text": "Harry Hopkins\n\nHarry Lloyd Hopkins (August 17, 1890 – January 29, 1946) was an American social worker, the 8th Secretary of Commerce, and one of President Franklin Delano Roosevelt's closest advisors. He was one of the architects of the New Deal, especially the relief programs of the Works Progress Administration (WPA), which he directed and built into the largest employer in the country. In World War II, he was Roosevelt's chief diplomatic adviser and troubleshooter.\n\nBorn in Iowa, Hopkins settled in New York City after he graduated from Grinnell College. He accepted a position in New York City's Bureau of Child Welfare and worked for various social work and public health organizations. He was elected president of the National Association of Social Workers in 1923. In 1931, Jesse I. Straus hired Hopkins as the executive director of New York's Temporary Emergency Relief Administration. His leadership of the program earned the attention of Roosevelt, then the governor of New York, and Roosevelt brought Hopkins into his presidential administration after his victory in the 1932 presidential election. Hopkins supervised the Federal Emergency Relief Administration, the Civil Works Administration, and the Works Progress Administration. He also served as Secretary of Commerce from 1938 to 1940.\n\nHopkins served as an important foreign policy adviser and diplomat during World War II. He was a key policy maker in the Lend-Lease program that sent $50 billion in aid to the Allies; Winston Churchill in his memoirs devotes a veritable panegyric to this \"natural leader of men\" who had \"a flaming soul\". Hopkins dealt with \"priorities, production, political problems with allies, strategy—in short, with anything that might concern the president\". He attended the major conferences of the Allied powers, including the Cairo Conference, the Tehran Conference, the Casablanca Conference, and the Yalta Conference. His health declined after 1939 due to stomach cancer, and Hopkins died in 1946 at the age of 55.\n\nHopkins was born at 512 Tenth Street in Sioux City, Iowa, the fourth child of four sons and one daughter of David Aldona and Anna (\"née\" Pickett) Hopkins. His father, born in Bangor, Maine, ran a harness shop (after an erratic career as a salesman, prospector, storekeeper and bowling-alley operator), but his real passion was bowling, and he eventually returned to it as a business. Anna Hopkins, born in Hamilton, Ontario, had moved at an early age to Vermillion, South Dakota, where she married David. She was deeply religious and active in the affairs of the Methodist church. Shortly after Harry was born, the family moved successively to Council Bluffs, Iowa, and Kearney and Hastings, Nebraska. They spent two years in Chicago and finally settled in Grinnell, Iowa.\n\nHopkins attended Grinnell College and soon after his graduation in 1912 took a job with Christodora House, a social settlement house in New York City's Lower East Side ghetto. In the spring of 1913, he accepted a position from John A. Kingsbury of the New York Association for Improving the Condition of the Poor (AICP) as \"friendly visitor\" and superintendent of the Employment Bureau within the AICP's Department of Family Welfare. During the 1915 recession, Hopkins and the AICP's William Matthews, with $5,000 from Elizabeth Milbank Anderson's Milbank Memorial Fund, organized the Bronx Park Employment program, one of the first public employment programs in the U.S.\n\nIn 1915, New York City Mayor John Purroy Mitchel appointed Hopkins executive secretary of the Bureau of Child Welfare which administered pensions to mothers with dependent children.\n\nHopkins at first opposed America's entrance into World War I, but, when war was declared in 1917, he supported it enthusiastically. He was rejected for the draft because of a bad eye. Hopkins moved to New Orleans where he worked for the American Red Cross as director of Civilian Relief, Gulf Division. Eventually, the Gulf Division of the Red Cross merged with the Southwestern Division and Hopkins, headquartered now in Atlanta, was appointed general manager in 1921. Hopkins helped draft a charter for the American Association of Social Workers (AASW) and was elected its president in 1923.\n\nIn 1922, Hopkins returned to New York City, where the AICP was involved with the Milbank Memorial Fund and the State Charities Aid Association in running three health demonstrations in New York State. Hopkins became manager of the Bellevue-Yorkville health project and assistant director of the AICP. In mid-1924 he became executive director of the New York Tuberculosis Association. During his tenure, the agency grew enormously and absorbed the New York Heart Association.\n\nIn 1931, New York Governor Franklin D. Roosevelt named R. H. Macy's department store president Jesse Straus as president of the Temporary Emergency Relief Administration (TERA). Straus named Hopkins, then unknown to Roosevelt, as TERA's executive director. His efficient administration of the initial $20 million outlay to the agency gained Roosevelt's attention, and in 1932, he promoted Hopkins to the presidency of the agency. Hopkins and Eleanor Roosevelt began a long friendship, which strengthened his role in relief programs.\n\nIn March 1933, Roosevelt summoned Hopkins to Washington as federal relief administrator. Convinced that paid work was psychologically more valuable than cash handouts, Hopkins sought to continue and expand New York State's work-relief programs, the Temporary Emergency Relief Administration. He supervised the Federal Emergency Relief Administration (FERA), the Civil Works Administration (CWA), and the Works Progress Administration (WPA). Over 90% of the people employed by the Hopkins programs were unemployed or on relief. He feuded with Harold Ickes, who ran a rival program—the Public Works Administration—which also created jobs but did not require applicants to be unemployed or on relief.\nFERA, the largest program from 1933 to 1935, involved giving money to localities to operate work relief projects to employ those on direct relief. CWA was similar but did not require workers to be on relief in order to receive a government sponsored job. In less than four months, the CWA hired four million people, and during its five months of operation, the CWA built and repaired 200 swimming pools, 3,700 playgrounds, 40,000 schools, of road, and 12 million feet of sewer pipe.\n\nThe WPA, which followed the CWA, employed 8.5 million people in its seven-year history, working on 1.4 million projects, including the building or repair of 103 golf courses, 1,000 airports, 2,500 hospitals, 2,500 sports stadiums, 3,900 schools, 8,192 parks, 12,800 playgrounds, 124,031 bridges, 125,110 public buildings, and of highways and roads. The WPA operated on its own, and on selected projects in cooperation with local and state governments, but always with its own staff and budget. Hopkins started programs for youth (National Youth Administration) and for artists and writers (Federal One Programs). He and Eleanor Roosevelt worked together to publicize and defend New Deal relief programs. He was concerned with rural areas but increasingly focused on cities in the Great Depression.\n\nBefore Hopkins began to decline from his struggle with stomach cancer in the late 1930s, FDR appeared to be training him as a possible successor. With the advent of World War II in Europe, however, FDR himself ran again in 1940, winning an unprecedented third term.\n\nOn May 10, 1940, after a long night and day of discussing the German invasion of the Netherlands, Belgium, and Luxembourg that had ended the so-called \"Phony War\", Roosevelt urged a tired Hopkins to stay for dinner, and then the night, in a second-floor White House bedroom. Hopkins would live out of the bedroom for the next three-and-a-half years.\n\nDuring the war years, Hopkins acted as Roosevelt's chief emissary to British Prime Minister Winston Churchill. In January 1941 Roosevelt dispatched Hopkins to assess Britain's determination and situation. Churchill escorted this important visitor all over the United Kingdom. Before he returned, at a small dinner party in the North British Hotel, Glasgow, Hopkins rose to propose a toast. \"I suppose you wish to know what I am going to say to President Roosevelt on my return. Well I am going to quote to you one verse from the Book of Ruth ... 'Whither thou goest, I will go and where thou lodgest I will lodge, thy people shall be my people, and thy God my God.'\" Hopkins became the administrator of the Lend-Lease programme, under which the United States gave or loaned to Free France, the United Kingdom, China, and other Allied nations food, oil, and materiel including warships, warplanes and weaponry in exchange for leases on army and naval bases in Allied territory.\nHopkins had a major voice in policy for the vast $50 billion Lend-Lease program, especially regarding supplies, first for Britain and then (upon the German invasion) the USSR. He went to Moscow in July 1941 to make personal contact with Joseph Stalin. Hopkins recommended, and the president accepted, the inclusion of the Soviets in Lend Lease. He then accompanied Churchill to the Atlantic Conference. Hopkins promoted an aggressive war against Germany and successfully urged Roosevelt to use the Navy to protect convoys headed for Great Britain before the U.S. entered the war in December 1941. Roosevelt brought him along as advisor to his meetings with Churchill and Stalin at Cairo, Tehran, Casablanca in 1942-43, and Yalta in 1945. He was a firm supporter of China, which received Lend-Lease aid for its military and air force. Hopkins wielded more diplomatic power than the entire State Department. Hopkins helped identify and sponsor numerous potential leaders, including Dwight D. Eisenhower. He continued to live in the White House and saw the President more often than any other advisor.\n\nIn mid-1943, Hopkins faced a barrage of criticism from Republicans and the press that he had abused his position for personal profit. One congressman asserted that British media tycoon Lord Beaverbrook had given Hopkins' wife Louise $500,000 worth of emeralds, which Louise denied. Newspapers ran stories detailing sumptuous dinners that Hopkins attended while making public calls for sacrifice. Hopkins briefly considered suing the \"Chicago Tribune\" for libel after a story that compared him to Grigory Rasputin, the famous courtier of Tsar Nicholas II of Russia, but was dissuaded by FDR.\n\nAlthough Hopkins' health was steadily declining, Roosevelt sent him on additional trips to Europe in 1945; he attended the Yalta Conference in February 1945. He tried to resign after Roosevelt died, but President Harry S. Truman sent him on one more mission to Moscow.\n\nHopkins had three sons who served in the armed forces during the war, Robert, David and Stephen. Stephen was killed in action serving in the Marine Corps.\n\nHopkins was the top American official assigned to dealing with Soviet officials during World War II. He interfaced with Soviet officials ranging from the middle ranks to the very highest, including Stalin. Anastas Mikoyan was Hopkins' counterpart with responsibility for Lend-Lease. He often explained Roosevelt's plans to Stalin and other top Soviet officials in order to enlist Soviet support for American objectives – an endeavor that met with limited success. A particularly striking example of bad faith was Moscow's refusal to allow American naval experts to see the captured German experimental U-boat station at Gdynia and thus help the protection of the very convoys that carried Lend-Lease aid. In turn, Hopkins passed on Stalin's stated goals and needs to Roosevelt. As the top American decision maker in Lend-Lease, he gave priority to supplying the Soviet Union, despite repeated objections from Republicans. As Soviet soldiers were bearing the brunt of the war, Hopkins felt that American aid to the USSR would hasten the war's conclusion.\n\nHopkins continued to be a target of attacks even after his death. George Racey Jordan testified to the House Un-American Activities Committee in December 1949 that Hopkins passed nuclear secrets to the USSR. Historians do not cite Jordan as credible—at the time Jordan claimed to have met with Hopkins in Washington regarding uranium shipments, Hopkins was in intensive care at the Mayo Clinic in Minnesota. In 1963 the FBI concluded that Jordan \"either lied for publicity and profit or was delusional\".\n\nIt is likely that any Soviets who spoke to Hopkins would have been routinely required to report the contact to the NKVD, the Soviet national security agency. Eduard Mark (1998) says that some Soviets, such as master-spy Iskhak Akhmerov, thought Hopkins was pro-Soviet, while others thought he was not. Verne W. Newton, author of \"FDR and the Holocaust\", said that no writer discussing Hopkins has identified any secrets disclosed, nor any decision in which he distorted American priorities in order to help Communism. As Mark demonstrates, Hopkins was not pro-Soviet in his recommendations to FDR; he was anti-German and pro-U.S. Any \"secrets\" disclosed were authorized. Mark says that at the time, any actions were taken specifically to help the American war effort, and to prevent the Soviets from making a deal with Hitler.\n\nJohn Earl Haynes and Harvey Klehr concluded in 2013:\n\nThe case advanced for Hopkins' guilt has two parts. The first is a highly specific claim that Hopkins was a Soviet agent code-named \"19,\" a high-level source who appears in a Soviet cable deciphered by the U.S. National Security Agency. That claim, however, is entirely mistaken. The fallback position is that even if Hopkins is not \"19,\" there is nonetheless convincing evidence that he was a Soviet agent. That claim is based on evidence too weak to be the basis for a confident conclusion.\n\nHopkins may simply have been naïve in his estimation of Soviet intentions. Historian Robert Conquest wrote that \"Hopkins seems just to have accepted an absurdly fallacious stereotype of Soviet motivation, without making any attempt whatever to think, or to study the readily available evidence, or to seek the judgement of the knowledgeable. He conducted policy vis-a-vis Stalin with mere dogmatic confidence in his own (and his circle's) unshakeable sentiments.\"\n\nIn 1913, Hopkins married Ethel Gross (1886–1976), a Hungarian-Jewish immigrant active in New York City's Progressive movement. They had three sons: David, Robert, and Stephen, and though Gross divorced Hopkins in 1930 shortly before Hopkins became a public figure, the two kept up an intimate correspondence until 1945. In 1931, Hopkins married Barbara Duncan, who died of cancer six years later. They had one daughter, Diana. In 1942, Hopkins married Louise Gill Macy (1906–1963) in the Yellow Oval Room at the White House. Macy was a divorced, gregarious former editor for \"Harper's Bazaar\". The two continued to live at the White House at Roosevelt's request, though Louise eventually demanded a home of their own. Hopkins ended his long White House stay on December 21, 1943, moving with his wife to a Georgetown townhouse.\n\nIn mid-1939, Hopkins was told that he had stomach cancer, and doctors performed an extensive operation that removed 75% of his stomach. What remained of Hopkins' stomach struggled to digest proteins and fat, and a few months after the operation, doctors stated that he had only four weeks to live. At this point, Roosevelt brought in experts who transfused Hopkins with blood plasma that halted his deterioration. When the \"Phony War\" phase of World War II ended in May 1940, the situation galvanised Hopkins; as Doris Kearns Goodwin wrote, \"the curative impact of Hopkins' increasingly crucial role in the war effort was to postpone the sentence of death the doctors had given him for five more years\".\n\nThough his death has been attributed to his stomach cancer, some historians have suggested that it was the cumulative malnutrition related to his post-cancer digestive problems. Another claim is that Hopkins died from liver failure due to hepatitis or cirrhosis, but Robert Sherwood authoritatively reported that Hopkins' postmortem examination showed the cause of death was hemochromatosis due to hepatic iron accumulation from his many blood transfusions and iron supplements.\n\nHopkins died in New York City on January 29, 1946, at the age of 55. His body was cremated and his ashes interred in his old hometown at the Hazelwood Cemetery in Grinnell, Iowa. There is a house on the Grinnell College campus named after him.\n\n"}
{"id": "4972437", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4972437", "title": "Holden (Verran)", "text": "Holden (Verran)\n\nHolden is a lake in the municipality of Verran in Trøndelag county, Norway. It is located about west of the village of Malm and about north of the village of Follafoss. The lake has a dam on the southern end to control the water for hydroelectric power. The lake flows out into the Follaelva river which flows into the Trondheimsfjord at the village of Follafoss.\n\n"}
{"id": "44809025", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44809025", "title": "Homeopathy Plus!", "text": "Homeopathy Plus!\n\nHomeopathy Plus! is an Australian company run by homeopath Fran Sheffield in Tuggerah, New South Wales. It is known for the claim that homeopathy is an effective, and safer, alternative to vaccination for conditions including whooping cough, along with claims that homeopathy is superior to chemotherapy for cancer. The claims for \"homeoprophylaxis\" were assessed as misleading by the Complaints Resolution Panel of the Therapeutic Goods Administration and a retraction demanded; this was ignored. The prophylaxis claims were referred to the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC), and although this was stated to have resulted in their removal, legal proceedings continued, culminating in a ruling by Justice Perry of the Federal Court of Australia in December 2014 that:\n\nThe Federal judge concluded that: \"there is no reasonable basis, in the sense of an adequate foundation, in medical science to enable the First Respondent and the Second Respondent to state that Homeopathic\nTreatments are safe and effective as an alternative to the Vaccine for the Prevention of Whooping Cough\".\n\nSheffield was also the originator of a controversial change.org petition to the World Health Organization calling on the WHO to use homeopathy in the 2014 Ebola virus epidemic in West Africa; a New Zealand MP who signed the petition was demoted from his position as a result. The New Zealand Prime Minister John Key called the idea of homeopathy for Ebola \"barking mad\".\n\nThe sentence was announced on October 14, 2015: Fran Sheffield was fined $23,000 and banned from selling the products for five years, and Homeopathy Plus fined $115,000.\n\n"}
{"id": "1362586", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1362586", "title": "Idiothetic", "text": "Idiothetic\n\nIdiothetic literally means \"self-proposition\" (Greek derivation), and is used in navigation models (e.g., of a rat in a maze) to describe the use of self-motion cues, rather than allothetic, or external, cues such as landmarks, to determine position and movement. The word is sometimes also spelled \"ideothetic\" (e.g., Chen et al, 1994 ). Idiothetic cues include vestibular, optic flow and proprioception. Idiothetic cues are important for the type of navigation known as path integration in which subjects navigate purely using such self-motion cues.\n\nThe term \"idiothetic\" is also used in personality psychology. Idiothetic psychology of personality suggests that personality description follows idiographic principles, while personality development centres around nomothetic principles.\n\n"}
{"id": "49459808", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49459808", "title": "International Society of Magnetic Resonance in Medicine", "text": "International Society of Magnetic Resonance in Medicine\n\nThe International Society of Magnetic Resonance in Medicine is a \"multi-disciplinary nonprofit association that promotes innovation, development, and application of magnetic resonance techniques in medicine and biology throughout the world\".\n\nThe society has over 8000 members and is based in Concord, California.\n\n"}
{"id": "28252459", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28252459", "title": "Jefferson Center (Toledo, Ohio)", "text": "Jefferson Center (Toledo, Ohio)\n\nThe Jefferson Center for Vocational Rehabilitation (or Jefferson Center for short) was a skills center in Toledo, Ohio from 1970 until its closure by Toledo Public Schools in June 2000. It was created to serve troubled high school juniors, seniors and dropouts within Toledo's school district that may have had physical, mental, emotional, or behavioral issues.\n\nCreated in 1970, the Jefferson Center moved into the old U.S. Post Office building at 1300 Jefferson Avenue in 1972. The school hoped to be a trendsetter nationally and aimed at TPS students that had issues with their home schools. Instead of having principals, teachers, students, and a separate set of rules for adults and children, the school was set up with the titles of director, supervisors, evaluators, and trainees. After much renovation to equip the building for instruction, the school was able to provide programs in building maintenance, child care, fabric service, food service, health care, manufacturing and construction, merchandising, office services, and warehousing.\n\nDespite its intentions to serve troubled teens, the Jefferson Center still had problems with attendance and graduation rates throughout its history. After a short debate on whether it was living up to its original expectations, the school was spared from closure in 1989 along with Macomber-Whitney High School.\n\nThe Jefferson Center remained open until June 2000 when TPS decided to save $15.2 million by cutting the alternative school, along with Old Orchard Junior High and 67 teaching jobs. The Head Start program moved into the building the following year.\n\nIn April 2011, TPS considered demolishing the building unless an alternative use for it could be found. A majority of the school board has voiced opinion in favor of keeping the historic 1911 building standing.\n"}
{"id": "42204538", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42204538", "title": "Labor Standards Act (South Korea)", "text": "Labor Standards Act (South Korea)\n\nLabor Standards Act () is a Labour law in South Korea since 1953.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21608069", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21608069", "title": "Lac du Ballon", "text": "Lac du Ballon\n\nLac du Ballon is a reservoir in Haut-Rhin, France situated in a side valley of florival, on the slope of Grand Ballon mountain. At an elevation of 988 m, its surface area is 0.08 km².\nThe small glacial lake was enlarged by a dam on the moraine already in the 16th century. In 1699, Vauban had it refurbished to supply canals for the building of Neuf-Brisach. The remainders of this dam were destroyed by flooding in 1740 and 1778.\n\nIn 1869, manufacturers dug a gallery to the lake bottom to increase the usable water height. Until 1955, the rock ground became leaky.\n\n1966–1968 the lake was tightened, the dam heightened again, with a flood spillway at the left end. The old gallery was backfilled, a new bottom outlet with a valve tower built.\nIn 2000, the dam and the lake shore were masoned, the dam top fixed with concrete.\n\nThe lake provides fresh water supply and flood protection for the Lauch valley and the town of Guebwiller.\n"}
{"id": "236338", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=236338", "title": "List of diseases (E)", "text": "List of diseases (E)\n\nThis is a list of diseases starting with the letter \"E\".\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nEpiderma\nEpidermo\nEpidermod–Epidermoi\nEpidermol\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33501614", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33501614", "title": "Medical Mission Sisters", "text": "Medical Mission Sisters\n\nThe Medical Mission Sisters (MMS) are a religious congregation of women in the Roman Catholic Church founded in 1925 and dedicated to providing the poor of the world better access to health care. They were formerly officially known as the \"Society of the Catholic Medical Missions\".\n\nThe congregation grew out of the experiences of Dr. Anna Dengel, a native of Austria. Dr. Dengel had served for several years as a medical missionary to the poor of what was then Northern India and today is the nation of Pakistan. She had experienced firsthand the unnecessary sickness and death of countless Muslim women and children, whose customs kept them cut off from medical care administered by male physicians.\n\nAfter months of traveling to give talks about the conditions in India, and speaking with many members of the clergy, Dr. Dengel became convinced that only a group of Religious Sisters who had been professionally trained as physicians could reach these women, who were cut off from adequate medical care by cultural and religious traditions. Such a project, however, was contrary to canon law of the time, which prohibited members of religious institutes from practicing medicine.\n\nNevertheless, she drew up a Constitution for the Community she had in mind and wrote that the members were “to live for God…to dedicate themselves to the service of the sick for the love of God and …to be properly trained according to the knowledge and standards of the time in order to practice medicine in its full scope, to which the Sisters were to dedicate their lives.”\n\nPermission was granted on June 12, 1925, to begin the new Congregation and, on September 30, 1925, the “First Four”—Dr. Anna Dengel of Austria, Dr. Johanna Lyons of Chicago, Evelyn Flieger, R.N., originally from Britain, and Marie Ulbrich, R.N., of Luxemburg, Iowa—came together in Washington, D.C., to begin the Medical Mission Sisters.\n\nThe “First Four” were unable to profess religious vows officially because the Catholic Church had yet to approve Sisters working in the medical field, yet they lived as professed Sisters just the same. Finally, in 1935, after the Medical Mission Sisters had grown, the Catholic Church changed its regulations and approved Sisters’ working in medicine and all of its branches. The Medical Mission Sisters then made their public, canonical vows, and they began to establish communities around the world.\n\nThe North American headquarters for the Congregation came to be established in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania in 1964 when, like The Singing Nun (Soeur Sourire) had done a year earlier - the Sisters began singing their own homegrown brand of spiritually-themed folk music as an aide to the medical health and wellness they professed.\n\nIn 1965 one of the most prolific of these composers, Sister Miriam Therese Winter had composed what would become a Grammy-award-winning worldwide hit \"Joy is Like the Rain\". Response was so strong to the song that other songs were written and a marathon eight-hour recording session was commissioned in Philadelphia in early 1966, at which this song was recorded along with dozens of others which would make up their first five albums.\n\nIn 1965, at the request of the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Addis Ababa in Ethiopia, Mother Anna made a visit to that nation to investigate the possibilities of starting a hospital for the people of that nation. Two Medical Mission Sisters arrived in Ethiopia in 1967 to start the groundwork for this mission. A few more Sisters came in 1969, and their work was able to begin. As of 2008, there were a dozen Sisters serving there, both foreigners and native Ethiopians.\n\nAs of 2010, there are about 600 Sisters in the congregation, serving in 17 nations around the globe. The four first Sisters of the Congregation were from three different nations. In keeping with this heritage of internationality among the \"First Four\", the Sisters in the Congregation today come from 23 nations.\n\nThe Sisters serve in a wide variety of ways. Among them, through: health care and education; wholeness and wellness programs; the development of women; work for justice; worship and spirituality; and music and song. They also have 80 Associates, women and men of many nations who share their values and have committed themselves to live the mission of the Society, which is \"to be a healing presence at the heart of a wounded world.\"\n\nAs examples of the range of services the Sisters do in different countries: \n\nMedical Mission Sisters website \n\n"}
{"id": "5023197", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5023197", "title": "Men's role in childbirth", "text": "Men's role in childbirth\n\nThe role of men in childbirth in the Western world has become more participatory than it was in the past. More Western women want their male partners to give active assistance during pregnancy and childbirth.\n\nUntil the concluding decades of the 19th century, an experienced nurse midwife, who was considered to be knowledgeable about the birth process, typically helped to deliver a woman's baby. Birth typically took place in the home, and it was considered to be an event for females. It was a time for female friends and relatives to come into the home and care for the mother, her household, provide reassurance, and offer guidance. Birth was not considered to be a private event, but more of a social one, that also could create a strong bond among the participants and supporting attendees.\n\nPhysicians there warned that it was dangerous not to receive modern medical attention while delivering children. They also stated one in every thirty women was expected to die because of a lack of medical attention. Due to these warnings, many women favored going into labor with a physician as opposed to a midwife. Physicians typically prohibited friends and relatives from participating or observing. The birth process may have been regarded as private or even embarrassing to the patient or the doctor and there were issues of preventing infection. Around 1910, some states began to outlaw the midwifery practice. Others enacted regulatory requirements which were difficult for many midwives to complete.\nSince the 1920s, physician assistance has been predominant during childbirth. However, since the 1960s midwifery has returned and grown in popularity and societal acceptance. Even during childbirth with a physician, it is now common for women to have their families, particularly their partners, in the delivery room with them. \n\nTo help their wives prepare for childbirth, many male partners participate in specialized childbirth classes, such as Lamaze or Bradley method of natural childbirth. Men may give active assistance during childbirth by simply being present during his wife's labor or by coaching during childbirth. Many women find their partners' presence in the delivery room to be comforting. If he is present the man may be able to assist in making decisions that may be required at various junctures in the childbirth process (for example, regarding the use of epidural, accelerating delivery, dealing with medical problems and other matters).\n\nUntil the early 1960s men were typically excluded from the labour room. However, during this decade there was an increasing pressure on hospitals to allow men into the labour room to provide support for their partners. It was only by the 1980s that it became common and expected that men would be present when their partners gave birth. The contemporary Australian experience is that men are expected to be present and support their partners.\n\nMany women find it soothing to have someone assist them during their pregnancies, making it more common for a woman's male partner to support her both before and during childbirth. The type and quality of a relationship between a man and a woman is what determines how, and if, the man will be active during his partner’s pregnancy.\n\nSome contend that when men are fearful or anxious regarding birth that they actually make the birth more difficult for their partner. Their fear may be 'transmitted' to their partner and this increases her adrenaline levels leading to labor stalling. In some circumstances this may require the use of medications such as oxytocin to restart labor and thus can sometimes lead to a cascade of intervention that can result in a caesarean section.\n\nTwo musicians have played or performed musical works during the delivery of a child of theirs. Mickey Hart recorded \"Music to be Born By\" and played it back during delivery, and Alfredo Rolando Ortiz played Paraguayan harp at the birth of his child.\n\n"}
{"id": "749112", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=749112", "title": "Mind–body interventions", "text": "Mind–body interventions\n\nMind–body interventions are medical and pseudomedical interventions based on the idea of the mind influencing the physical body. The category was introduced in September 2000 by the United States National Center for Complementary and Integrative Health (NCCIH), so encompasses alternative medicine interventions. It excludes scientifically validated practices such as cognitive behavioural therapy.\n\nThe NCCIH defines mind-body interventions as those practices that \"employ a variety of techniques designed to facilitate the mind's capacity to affect bodily function and symptoms\", and include guided imagery, guided meditation and forms of meditative praxis, hypnosis and hypnotherapy, prayer, as well as art therapy, music therapy, and dance therapy.\n\nAll mind-body interventions focus on the interaction between the brain, body, and behavior and are practiced with intention to use the mind to alter physical function and promote overall health and well-being.\n\nHowever, the NCCIH does not consider mind-body interventions as within the purview of complementary and alternative medicine when there is sufficient scientific evidence for the benefit of such practices along with their professional application in conventional medicine. One such practice that the NCCIH defines as a mind-body intervention because it utilizes the mind's capacity to affect bodily function and symptoms, but for which there is sufficient scientific evidence and mainstream application for it to fall outside the purview of complementary and alternative medicine is cognitive behavioral therapy.\n\nSince 2008, authors documenting research conducted on behalf of the NCCIH have used terms \"mind and body practices\" and \"mind-body medicine\" interchangeably with \"mind-body interventions\" to denote both therapeutic as well as physical and mental rehabilitative practices that \"focus on the relationships between the brain, mind, body, and behavior, and their effect on health and disease.\" and have furthermore attested requisite professional competence among those administering such practices, stating that \"mind and body practices include a large and diverse group of procedures or techniques administered or taught by a trained practitioner or teacher\".\n\nThe current list of example mind-body interventions provided by the NCCIH is as follows:\n\nMind-body Interventions are the most commonly used form of complementary and alternative medicine in the United States, with yoga and meditation being the most popular forms.\n\nThere are documented benefits of several mind-body interventions derived from scientific research firstly into their use in contributing to the treatment a range of conditions including headaches, coronary artery disease and chronic pain; secondly in ameliorating disease and the symptoms of chemotherapy-induced nausea, vomiting, and localized physical pain in patients with cancer; thirdly in increasing the perceived capacity to cope with significant problems and challenges; and fourthly in improving the reported overall quality of life. In addition, there is evidence supporting the brain and central nervous system's influence on the immune system and the capacity for mind-body interventions to enhance immune function outcomes, including defense against and recovery from infection and disease.\n"}
{"id": "12854119", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12854119", "title": "National Breast Cancer Awareness Month", "text": "National Breast Cancer Awareness Month\n\nBreast Cancer Awareness Month (BCAM), also referred to in America as National Breast Cancer Awareness Month (NBCAM), is an annual international health campaign organized by major breast cancer charities every October to increase awareness of the disease and to raise funds for research into its cause, prevention, diagnosis, treatment and cure. The campaign also offers information and support to those affected by breast cancer.\n\nBreast cancer awareness month is a yearly campaign that intend educate people about the importance of early screening, test and more. This campaign starts on October 1st and ends on October 31st every year.\n\nNBCAM was founded in 1985 in October as a partnership between the American Cancer Society and the pharmaceutical division of Imperial Chemical Industries (now part of AstraZeneca, producer of several anti-breast cancer drugs). The aim of the NBCAM from the start has been to promote mammography as the most effective weapon in the fight against breast cancer.\n\nIn 1993 Evelyn Lauder, Senior Corporate Vice President of the Estée Lauder Companies, founded The Breast Cancer Research Foundation and established the pink ribbon as its symbol, though this was not the first time the ribbon was used to symbolize breast cancer: a 68-year-old California woman named Charlotte Haley, whose sister, daughter, and granddaughter had breast cancer, had distributed peach-color ribbons to call attention to what she perceived as inadequate funding for research. In the fall of 1991, the Susan G. Komen Foundation had handed out pink ribbons to participants in its New York City race for breast cancer survivors.\n\nIn 2010, Delta Air Lines painted N845MH,a Boeing 767-432ER in \"Breast Cancer Research Foundation\" special colors. In September 2015, a newer version of the livery was repainted on the same plane.\n\nA variety of events around the world are organized in October, including walks and runs, and the pink illumination of landmark buildings. In the United States, the National Football League promotes breast cancer awareness by incorporating pink on and off the field, and comic strip artists use pink on one day in October.\n\nIn October 1983 the Race for the Cure was held for the first time in Dallas, Texas, where 800 people participated. According to the organizers, by 2002 the number of participants reached 1.3 million and the event was held in over 100 US cities. The event is also being organized in several other parts of the world.\n\nThere are various two-day-long walks to raise money for breast cancer research institutes. Avon sponsors a 39-mile (60-km) walk. A walk in Atlanta offers varying lengths of up to 30 miles. Canada's large \"Weekend to End Breast Cancer\" features a 60-km walk. St. Louis, MO offers a one-day-long breast cancer walk. This walk consists of three miles.\n\nThis 60-mile fundraising walk, which is spread across 3 days, raises money for breast cancer research. This walk, which benefits Susan G. Komen, occurs in seven cities in the United States. \n\nMale breast cancer, which is rare, is generally overlooked. In 2009 the male breast cancer advocacy groups Out of the Shadow of Pink, A Man's Pink, and the Brandon Greening Foundation for Breast Cancer in Men joined together to globally establish the third week of October as \"Male Breast Cancer Awareness Week\".\n\nInspiration for the foundation of NBCAM came from Zeneca Inc. in 1989 when they began a breast cancer screening program within their company. In 1996, with the screening program and study complete, Zeneca Inc. analyzed the total monetary amounts lost due to the increase in health care provided compared with the total monetary amounts lost if the company was to scrap the program were compared. The total costs to the company of running the early detection program were estimated to be $400,000. Total costs to the company if they chose not to run the program were estimated to be around $1.5 million.\n\nPezzullo (2003) \"(Astra)Zeneca’s initial justification for NBCAM was one of basic accounting, not a critique of how women’s healthcare has been assessed or implemented nor a desire to prevent women from developing breast cancer; instead, it was cost-effective for a company to detect cancer in its employees during the disease’s earlier stages.\"\n\nCritics have said that \"the BCAM idea 'was conceived and paid for by a British chemical company that both profits from this epidemic and may be contributing to its cause...'\".\n\nSometimes referred to as \"National Breast Cancer Industry Month\", critics of NBCAM point to a conflict of interest between corporations sponsoring breast cancer awareness while profiting from diagnosis and treatment. The breast cancer advocacy organization, Breast Cancer Action, has said repeatedly in newsletters and other information sources that October has become a public relations campaign that avoids discussion of the causes and prevention of breast cancer and instead focuses on \"awareness\" as a way to encourage women to get their mammograms. The term \"pinkwashing\" has been used by Breast Cancer Action to describe the actions of companies which manufacture and use chemicals which show a link with breast cancer and at the same time publicly support charities focused on curing the disease. Other criticisms center on the marketing of \"pink products\" and tie-ins, citing that more money is spent marketing these campaigns than is donated to the cause. According to \"The New York Times\" in October 2015, fine print disclaimers on pink products sold by Dick's Sporting Goods reveal that in some instances, no money at all is donated to breast cancer research. Other companies cap the amount they give to research during each October's \"pink\" campaign, but do not tell consumers when that cap has been reached.\n\nPresident Donald Trump proclaimed National Breast Cancer Awareness Month on September 30, 2017.\n\nIn 1985, \"National Breast Cancer Awareness Month\" (NBCAM) was created as a collaborative effort between the American Academy of Family Physicians, AstraZeneca Healthcare Foundation, CancerCare, Inc., and a variety of other sponsors to raise awareness and gain funding for research for a cure.\" \n\n\n"}
{"id": "50364516", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50364516", "title": "Optomyography", "text": "Optomyography\n\nOptomyography (OMG) was proposed in 2015 as a technique that could be used to monitor muscular activity. It is possible to use OMG for the same applications where Electromyography (EMG) and Mechanomyography (MMG) are used. However, OMG offers superior signal-to-noise ratio and improved robustness against the disturbing factors and limitations of EMG and MMG.\nThe basic principle of OMG is to use active near-infra-red optical sensors to measure the variations in the measured signals that are reflected from the surface of the skin while activating the muscles below and around the skin spot where the photoelectric sensor is focusing to measure the signals reflected from this spot.\n\nGenerating proper control signals is the most important task to be able to control any kind of a prosthesis, computer game or any other system which contains a human-computer interaction unit or module. For this purpose, surface-Electromyographic (s-EMG) and Mechanomyographic (MMG) signals are measured during muscular activities and used, not only for monitoring and assessing these activities, but also to help in providing efficient rehabilitation treatment for patients suffering from disabilities as well as in constructing and controlling sophisticated prostheses for various types of amputees and disabilities. However, while the existing s-EMG and MMG based systems have compelling benefits, many engineering challenges still remain unsolved, especially with regard to the sensory control system.\n"}
{"id": "10566005", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10566005", "title": "Overactive let-down", "text": "Overactive let-down\n\nOveractive let-down (OALD) is the forceful ejection of milk from the breast during breastfeeding. In some women it occurs only with the first let-down in a feeding, occasionally women may have multiple strong letdowns during a feeding. OALD can make breastfeeding difficult and can be the source of some breastfeeding complications. It may also be known as hyper milk-ejection. A woman may have OALD in addition to an oversupply of breastmilk. (Often called foremilk-hindmilk imbalance, hyperlactation syndrome, oversupply colic syndrome, and other near synonyms.) \nThe physical or medical cause of an overactive let-down is still unknown. Whether mothers with OALD have a higher overall milk volume – or a strong reaction to the hormone oxytocin (which causes the let-down reflex) also remains to be seen.\n\nThe forceful spray of milk can cause the baby to consume too much milk too quickly as well as to swallow air during the period of rapid swallowing following the let-down. The speed of the flow of milk into the mouth can cause the baby to react with reduced nursing times and aversion to nursing often described by mothers as \"fussiness\", \"colicky\", \"dislikes nursing\", or \"is weaning\". Some babies, especially those of approximately 2–4 months of age, become increasingly upset with the spray of milk which may increase their aversion to nursing to the point of refusing the breast (a nursing strike).\n\nOveractive let-down can be a part of a constellation of symptoms that make up oversupply syndrome or oversupply colic. Babies coping with OSS, gain weight quickly in the early months, even while nursing for short period. Some OSS babies sleep for surprisingly long periods of time and depth, possibly due to an over-full feeling, while others have very disturbed sleep, possibly due to gastrointestinal pain.\n\nThere are effective remedies for overactive let-down, and oversupply syndrome, however aggressive treatment should be watched carefully by someone familiar with the condition as the mother is at a higher risk for plugged ducts, mastitis and other breast infections.\n\nOveractive let-down can take a long time to control and can be frustrating for the mother and baby, but when controlled effectively a long and satisfying breastfeeding relationship is possible. Mothers with this condition are often given various incorrect rationales for their concerns such as \"having weak milk\", or \"bad milk\", it's \"just colic\", the baby will \"grow out of it\", or the child is \"allergic to your milk\", or a food in the mother's diet.\n\nThere are no valid reasons to stop breastfeeding due to this condition.\n\nA strong letdown reflex often coincides with overactive milk production, engorgement, and problems with the sucking/breathing pattern of the baby. \n\nRemedies for Engorgement include:\n\nRemedies for OALD include:\n\n\nPumping off milk should be done only with the guidance of an experienced breastfeeding counselor, as part of a unilateral ad lib protocol.\n\n"}
{"id": "22140663", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22140663", "title": "Quality of life (healthcare)", "text": "Quality of life (healthcare)\n\nIn general, quality of life (QoL or QOL) is the perceived quality of an individual's daily life, that is, an assessment of their well-being or lack thereof. This includes all emotional, social and physical aspects of the individual's life. In health care, health-related quality of life (HRQoL) is an assessment of how the individual's well-being may be affected over time by a disease, disability or disorder.\n\nEarly versions of healthcare-related quality of life measures referred to simple assessments of physical abilities by an external rater (for example, the patient is able to get up, eat and drink, and take care of personal hygiene without any help from others) or even to a single measurement (for example, the angle to which a limb could be flexed).\n\nThe current concept of health-related quality of life acknowledges that subjects put their actual situation in relation to their personal expectation. The latter can vary over time, and react to external influences such as length and severity of illness, family support, etc. As with any situation involving multiple perspectives, patients' and physicians' rating of the same objective situation have been found to differ significantly. Consequently, health-related quality of life is now usually assessed using patient questionnaires. These are often multidimensional and cover physical, social, emotional, cognitive, work- or role-related, and possibly spiritual aspects as well as a wide variety of disease related symptoms, therapy induced side effects, and even the financial impact of medical conditions. Although often used interchangeably with the measurement of health status, both health-related quality of life and health status measure different concepts.\n\nBecause health problems can interfere with even the most basic aspects of daily living (for example, breathing comfortably, quality of sleep, eliminating wastes, feeding oneself, dressing, and others), the health care professions have codified the concepts of activities of daily living (ADLs) and instrumental activities of daily living (IADLs). Such analysis and classification helps to at least partially objectify quality of life. It cannot eliminate all subjectivity, but it can help improve measurement and communication by quantifying and by reducing ineffability.\n\nSimilar to other psychometric assessment tools, health-related quality of life questionnaires should meet certain quality criteria, most importantly with regard to their reliability and validity. Hundreds of validated health-related quality of life questionnaires have been developed, some of which are specific to various illnesses. \nThe questionnaires can be generalized into two categories:\n\n\"Generic instruments\"\n\"Disease, disorder or condition specific instruments\" \n\nA variety of validated surveys exist for healthcare providers to use for measuring a patient’s health-related quality of life. The results are then used to help determine treatment options for the patient based on past results from other patients, and to measure intra-individual improvements in QoL pre- and post-treatment.\n\nWhen it is used as a longitudinal study device that surveys patients before, during, and after treatment, it can help health care providers determine which treatment plan is the best option, thereby improving healthcare through an evolutionary process.\n\nThere is a growing field of research concerned with developing, evaluating, and applying quality of life measures within health related research (e.g. within randomized controlled studies), especially in relation to Health Services Research. Well-executed health-related quality of life research informs those tasked with health rationing or anyone involved in the decision-making process of agencies such as the Food and Drug Administration, European Medicines Agency or National Institute for Clinical Excellence. Additionally, health-related quality of life research may be used as the final step in clinical trials of experimental therapies.\n\nThe understanding of Quality of Life is recognized as an increasingly important healthcare topic because the relationship between cost and value raises complex problems, often with high emotional attachment because of the potential impact on human life. For instance, healthcare providers must refer to cost-benefit analysis to make economic decisions about access to expensive drugs that may prolong life by short amount of time and/or provide a minimal increase to quality of life. Additionally, these treatment drugs must be weighed against the cost of alternative treatments or preventative medicine. In the case of chronic and/or terminal illness where no effective cure is available, an emphasis is placed on improving health-related quality of life through interventions such as symptom management, adaptive technology, and palliative care.\n\nIn the realm of elder care, research indicates that improvements in quality of life ratings may also improve resident outcomes, which can lead to substantial cost savings over time. Research has also shown that quality of life ratings can be successfully used as a key-performance metric when designing and implementing organizational change initiatives in nursing homes.\n\nResearch revolving around Health Related Quality of Life is extremely important because of the implications that it can have on current and future treatments and health protocols. Thereby, validated health-related quality of life questionnaires can become an integral part of clinical trials in determining the trial drugs' value in a cost-benefit analysis. For example, the Center for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) is using their health-related quality of life survey, Healthy Day Measure, as part of research to identify health disparities, track population trends, and build broad coalitions around a measure of population health. This information can then be used by multiple levels of government or other officials to \"increase quality and years of life\" and to \"eliminate health disparaties\" for equal opportunity.\nThe quality of life ethic refers to an ethical principle that uses assessments of the quality of life that a person could potentially experience as a foundation for making decisions about the continuation or termination of life. It is often used in contrast to or in opposition to the sanctity of life ethic.\n\nIt is not considered uncommon for there to be some statistical anomalies during data analysis. Some of the more frequently seen in health-related quality of life analysis are the ceiling effect, the floor effect, and response shift bias.\n\nThe ceiling effect refers to how patients who start with a higher quality of life than the average patient do not have much room for improvement when treated. The opposite of this is the floor effect, where patients with a lower quality of life average have much more room for improvement. Consequentially, if the spectrum of quality of life before treatment is too unbalanced, there is a greater potential for skewing the end results, creating the possibility for incorrectly portraying a treatment's effectiveness or lack thereof.\n\nResponse shift bias is an increasing problem within longitudinal studies that rely on patient reported outcomes. It refers to the potential of a subject’s views, values, or expectations changing over the course of a study, thereby adding another factor of change on the end results. Clinicians and healthcare providers must recalibrate surveys over the course of a study to account for Response Shift Bias. The degree of recalibration varies due to factors based on the individual area of investigation and length of study.\n\nIn a study by Norman et al. about health-related quality of life surveys, it was found that most survey results were within a half standard deviation. Norman et al. theorized that this is due to the limited human discrimination ability as identified by George A. Miller in 1956. Utilizing the Magic Number of 7 ± 2, Miller theorized that when the scale on a survey extends beyond 7 ± 2, humans fail to be consistent and lose ability to differentiate individual steps on the scale because of channel capacity.\n\nNorman et al. proposed health-related quality of life surveys use a half standard deviation as the statistically significant benefit of a treatment instead of calculating survey-specific “minimally important differences\", which are the supposed real-life improvements reported by the subjects. In other words, Norman et al. proposed all health-related quality of life survey scales be set to a half standard deviation instead of calculating a scale for each survey validation study where the steps are referred to as \"minimally important differences\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2449968", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2449968", "title": "Rasch model estimation", "text": "Rasch model estimation\n\nEstimation of a Rasch model is used to estimate the parameters of the Rasch model. Various techniques are employed to estimate the parameters from matrices of response data. The most common approaches are types of maximum likelihood estimation, such as joint and conditional maximum likelihood estimation. Joint maximum likelihood (JML) equations are efficient, but inconsistent for a finite number of items, whereas conditional maximum likelihood (CML) equations give consistent and unbiased item estimates. Person estimates are generally thought to have bias associated with them, although weighted likelihood estimation methods for the estimation of person parameters reduce the bias.\n\nThe Rasch model for dichotomous data takes the form:\n\nwhere formula_2 is the ability of person formula_3 and formula_4 is the difficulty of item formula_5.\n\nLet formula_6 denote the observed response for person \"n\" on item \"i\". The probability of the observed data matrix, which is the product of the probabilities of the individual responses, is given by the likelihood function\n\nThe log-likelihood function is then\n\nwhere formula_9 is the total raw score for person \"n\", formula_10 is the total raw score for item \"i\", \"N\" is the total number of persons and \"I\" is the total number of items.\n\nSolution equations are obtained by taking partial derivatives with respect to formula_11 and formula_12 and setting the result equal to 0. The JML solution equations are:\n\nwhere formula_15. \n\nThe resulting estimates are biased, and no finite estimates exist for persons with score 0 (no correct responses) or with 100% correct responses (perfect score). The same holds for items with extreme scores, no estimates exists for these as well. This bias is due to a well known effect described by Kiefer & Wolfowitz (1956). It is of the order formula_16, and \na more accurate (less biased) estimate of each formula_11 is obtained by multiplying the estimates by formula_16.\n\nThe conditional likelihood function is defined as\n\nin which\n\nis the elementary symmetric function of order \"r\", which represents the sum over all combinations of \"r\" items. For example, in the case of three items,\n\nSome kind of expectation-maximization algorithm is used in the estimation of the parameters of Rasch models. Algorithms for implementing Maximum Likelihood estimation commonly employ Newton-Raphson iterations to solve for solution equations obtained from setting the partial derivatives of the log-likelihood functions equal to 0. Convergence criteria are used to determine when the iterations cease. For example, the criterion might be that the mean item estimate changes by less than a certain value, such as 0.001, between one iteration and another for all items.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41164835", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41164835", "title": "Robert G. Bernreuter", "text": "Robert G. Bernreuter\n\nRobert Gibbon Bernreuter (1901–1995) was an American psychologist. In 1931 he developed the Bernreuter Personality Inventory.\n\nHe was born in 1901 in Tampico, Illinois.\n\nHe received his Ph.D. from Stanford University in 1931, for his thesis he developed the Bernreuter Personality Inventory. He worked at Pennsylvania State University from 1931 to his retirement in 1966.\n\nHe married Shirley Buell (1902-2005) of Howard, Pennsylvania in 1931.\n"}
{"id": "18139733", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18139733", "title": "Sanyukai", "text": "Sanyukai\n\nSanyukai Nonprofit Organization Inc. () is an official nonprofit organization dedicated to the aid of the homeless population in Tokyo, Japan. Sanyukai's services include a free clinic, as well as an outreach program which distributes food and clothing to the homeless in the area.\n\nSanyukai is located in the San'ya district in Tokyo, Japan. The building has three floors, and includes the free Sanyu clinic, a kitchen where food is prepared for the Outreach Program, and an office where free legal advice is offered. Sanyukai also hosts events in an effort to bring the community together in aiding the homeless.\n\nLocated on the first floor of the Sanyukai building, Sanyu Clinic is one of the only free clinics in all of Tokyo. Homeless members of society can receive consultations with professional doctors and nurses. Depending on the diagnosis, the patient may receive medical advice, free prescription medication, or a ride to the hospital for intensive care. Most of the clinic staff are medical professionals volunteering on their time off. At this point, Sanyu clinic hosts 9 doctors, 1 chiropractor, 4 acupuncturists and 6 nurses. Working full-time at Sanyukai is one registered nurse who is also the clinic coordinator; another nurse works part-time.\n\nCentered around the kitchen on the second floor, the Outreach Program strives to provide the homeless with free meals and decent clothing. Several times a week, Sanyukai will prepare individually wrapped meals and go on patrol in the area. Concentrating in parks and riverside areas where homeless individuals tend to frequent, these patrols provide free meals and conversation. This Program works to not only provide the homeless with daily needs, but also establish Sanyukai as a place of safety and help for them. While providing food, the patrol also takes note of everyone's health, sometimes recommending a visit to the Sanyu Clinic. The Outreach Program works to establish and maintain connections with the homeless in the area, to more effectively aid those in need.\n\nAnother aspect of Sanyukai is how it functions as a gathering place for the homeless in the area. Everyday, a large group of people can be found in front of the building, joking and socializing. Most of the homeless people in the area are middle aged or elderly men who are out of work and have no real family. Sanyukai functions as a place where these people can relax and socialize. The volunteers provide green tea and other basic things at the Sanyukai entrance that help these people on a daily basis. The homeless are provided with toothbrushes, shaving razors, towels, hand soap and laundry detergent, to help them maintain their hygiene and health. Once a month a barber volunteers his services and spends a day giving as many free haircuts as he can. Overall, Sanyukai is not only a place where the homeless go when they are sick or starving, but rather a landmark where they are welcomed and taken care of.\n\n"}
{"id": "46803362", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46803362", "title": "Scarlet Ribbons: A Priest with AIDS", "text": "Scarlet Ribbons: A Priest with AIDS\n\nScarlet Ribbons: A Priest with AIDS is a biography written by Rosemary Bailey about the life of her brother, Simon Bailey who was an Anglican priest and writer.\n\nSimon Bailey became more known to the public after the airing of a BBC Everyman documentary programme, called \"Simon's Cross\". The documentary aired\non 15 January 1995. After the broadcast his sister, Rosemary Bailey wrote an article for The Independent called \"A Parish Learns to be Positive\". Subsequently after the documentary and article Rosemary Bailey wrote her brother's biography, \"Scarlet Ribbons: A Priest with AIDS\".\n"}
{"id": "33141293", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33141293", "title": "Shalamar Institute of Health Sciences", "text": "Shalamar Institute of Health Sciences\n\nShalamar Institute of Health Sciences (abbreviated as SIHS), named after Shalimar Gardens, Lahore, is a medical complex and organization providing health care and medical services. It consists of Shalamar Hospital, Shalamar Nursing College and Shalamar Medical and Dental College, all of which are situated on Shalimar Link Road, Lahore in Shalimar Town.\n\nShalamar Nursing College, established in 2006, is a nursing school accredited by the Pakistan Nursing Council and affiliated with the University of Health Sciences, Lahore (UHS). The college provides undergraduate 4 years B.Sc Nursing and 2 years Post RN B.Sc Nursing degrees.\n\nIt was established in 2009. It is accredited by the Pakistan Medical and Dental Council, affiliated with the College of Physicians and Surgeons Pakistan and University of Health Sciences, Lahore for postgraduate training and undergraduate degrees respectively.\n\nShalamar Hospital, established in 1982, is a 350-bedded private teaching hospital is attached with Shalamar Institute of Health Sciences for clinical training of its students. The hospital provides consultation, diagnostic and treatment services for almost all medical and surgical specialties through its hospital based clinical services and community program.\n"}
{"id": "22401716", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22401716", "title": "Sloan letters", "text": "Sloan letters\n\nSloan letters, designed by Louise Sloan in 1959, are a set of optotypes used to test visual acuity generally used in Snellen charts and logMAR charts.\n\nThis set of optotypes consists of ten specially formed \"letters\", C, D, H, K, N, O, R, S, V and Z. These letters, unlike the ones used in older Snellen charts, are designed to give acuity testing results that are comparable to tests made using Landolt broken rings. \n\nComputer fonts for Macintosh and Windows operating systems are available for research purposes. The fonts are based on Louise Sloan’s design, which has been designated the US standard for acuity testing by the National Academy of Sciences, National Research Council, Committee on Vision (1980, Adv Ophthalmol, 41, 103-148).\n\n"}
{"id": "23610727", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23610727", "title": "Strategic grain reserve", "text": "Strategic grain reserve\n\nA strategic grain reserve is a government stockpile of grain for the purpose of meeting future domestic or international needs. In the United States, such programs have included the Farmer-Owned Grain Reserve (1977–1996), Food Security Wheat Reserve (1980–1996), Food Security Commodity Reserve (1996–1998), and most recently the Bill Emerson Humanitarian Trust (1998–).\n"}
{"id": "3413476", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3413476", "title": "Stratum intermedium", "text": "Stratum intermedium\n\nThe stratum intermedium in a developing tooth is a layer of two or three cells between the inner enamel epithelium and the newly forming cells of the stellate reticulum. It first appears during the early bell stage of tooth development, at around the 14th week of intrauterine life. The stratum intermedium has a notably high alkaline phosphatase activity. This layer, along with the inner enamel epithelium, is responsible for the tooth enamel formation. It is a part of the dental (enamel) organ.\n\n"}
{"id": "2991803", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2991803", "title": "Treatment Advocacy Center", "text": "Treatment Advocacy Center\n\nThe Treatment Advocacy Center (TAC) is a national U.S. nonprofit organization dedicated to researching issues around lack of access to mental healthcare . They research issues around barriers to treatment and propose solutions to improve access to care for those severe mental illnesses such as schizophrenia, bipolar disorder and major depressive disorder. Towards this end, the organization publicizes research as well as proposing laws, policies and practices for implementing treatment. The organizations provides education around personal barriers to treatment such as anosognosia-the neurological deficit leading to lack of awareness that one has a mental illness and needs treatment. They also publish reports comparing states and ranking access, adequacy and other issues around quality mental healthcare. They focus on as assisted outpatient treatment laws (AOT), the criminalization of those with mental illness and the negative impacts of deinstitutionalization of those with mental illness without increasing community based services.\n\nE. Fuller Torrey, M.D. founded the Treatment Advocacy Center in 1998 as a function of the National Association on Mental Illness (NAMI). For nearly 10 years in the decade after the widespread elimination of psychiatric hospital beds in the U.S., Torrey had been a psychiatrist at St. Elizabeths Hospital for the treatment of serious and persistent mental illness in Washington, D.C. Torrey also believed that the migration of individuals who would have been hospitalized prior to the closing of state psychiatric hospitals (a trend known as \"deinstitutionalization\") into jails and prisons was best explained by behaviors that resulted from their non-treatment. With the support of entrepreneur Theodore Stanley and his wife Vada, the Treatment Advocacy Center separated from NAMI shortly after its founding to focus entirely on promoting the legal changes to enable treatment for those who are most ill. Operating without funding from the pharmaceutical industry, the Treatment Advocacy Center has evolved into one of the nation's largest source of research on issues regarding untreated severe mental illness. The organization operates with the support of the closely affiliated Stanley Medical Research Institute, the largest nongovernment source of funding for research into bipolar disorder and schizophrenia in the United States, and many individual donors and foundations. Torrey continues to serve as a member of the Treatment Advocacy Center's board and is executive director of the Stanley Medical Research Institute.\n\nThe Treatment Advocacy Center engages in a wide range of activities and projects including:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20028168", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20028168", "title": "Vegetable carving", "text": "Vegetable carving\n\nVegetable carving is the art of carving vegetables to form beautiful objects, such as flowers or birds.\n\nThe origins of vegetable carving are disputed: some believe it to have begun in Japan in ancient times, others believe it to have begun in Sukothai, Thailand 700 years ago, while still others believe that vegetable carving originated in the time of the Tang dynasty (AD 618-906) and the Song dynasty (AD 960-1279) in China.\n\nJapan has also been referred to as the root of the art of fruit and vegetable carving, called Mukimono in Japanese. According to the book \"Japanese Garnishes, The Ancient Art of Mukimono\", by Yukiko and Bob Haydok, Mukimono's origins began in ancient times when food was served on unglazed clay pottery. These rough platters were covered with a leaf before the food was plated. Artistic chefs realized that the cutting or folding of the leaf in different ways created a more attractive presentation. Mukimono did not become popular until the sixteenth century, the Edo period, when Mukimono gained official recognition. At this time, street artists created clever garnishes upon request. From these beginnings the art has developed into a very important part of every Japanese chef's training.\n\nAnother popular theory of the history of vegetable and fruits carving is that it originates in Thailand. It started during the Loi Krathong festival in the 14th century. During Loi Krathong, rafts are individually decorated using many objects, including banana leaves and flowers.\n\nIn the year 1364, one of King Phra Ruang’s servants, Nang Noppamart, had the desire to create a unique decoration for her raft. Nang carved a flower from a vegetable using a real flower as a pattern. She carved a bird as well and set it beside the flower. Using these carvings, she created a raft that stood out above the rest. King Phra Ruang was impressed by the grace and beauty of the carving and decreed that every woman should learn this new art.\n\nMoreover, in the central Thailand, people usually used banana stalk to decorate a bier. Banana stalks were carved by artists into the form of art that called Thaeng yuak art. \n\nAs the centuries passed, enthusiasm for this art waxed and waned. In 1808, King Rama II loved vegetable carving so much so that he wrote poetry about it. However, during the 1932 revolution in Thailand, appreciation for vegetable carving died down. In order to revive interest, it is taught from the age of 11 in primary schools through secondary school in Thailand. Optional courses are also offered in universities throughout Thailand.\n\nRegardless of its origins, vegetable carving is flaunted in many different Asian restaurants, cruises, hotels, and other various places.\nIn the mid-20th century, the art of vegetable carving began to grow outside Asia. Since then other cultures have slowly come to appreciate the beauty and culture associated with the practice. Today, one can marvel at vegetable carving throughout the world.\n\nThe products of vegetable carving are generally flowers or birds; however, the only limit is one’s imagination. The techniques of vegetable carving vary from person to person, as does the final result. Some carvings present more artistic detail, while others have simple, yet beautiful shapes. Vegetable carving is generally used as a garnish, but it can also be used for flower arranging.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47814085", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47814085", "title": "Vuse", "text": "Vuse\n\nVuse Digital Vapor Cigarette, commonly known as Vuse (rhymes with \"news\"), is an electronic cigarette produced by R. J. Reynolds Vapor Company, a subsidiary of Big Tobacco company Reynolds American. In 2015, it was the most popular e-cigarette in the United States with 33 percent market share in Nielsen-tracked channels (a declining proportion of the total). Also in 2015, it was the best selling e-cigarette device in convenience stores in the US. However, Vuse lost its top position in 2017, when JUUL overtook it to become the most popular e-cigarette in the US. , Vuse controls 9.6 percent of the American e-cigarette market, compared to JUUL's 72.1 percent market share, according to Nielsen data.\n\nVuse has a nicotine content of 4.8 percent, which is high compared to other e-cigarettes.\n\nR.J. Reynolds launched Vuse in a June 2013 press conference, the first time R.J. Reynolds launched a product with a press conference in two decades. R.J. Reynolds promoted Vuse with print, direct mail, and TV advertising, the latter of which is highly unusual for tobacco products in the United States. Vuse was launched in Colorado, but it quickly become available across the rest of the United States. In 2015, Jerod Harris filed a lawsuit against Vuse for \"[failure] to inform customers of the potential health risks incurred by using the products; specifically, inhalation of the carcinogens formaldehyde and acetaldehyde,\" a violation of California state law.\n\nIn April 2018, R.J. Reynolds Vapor Company issued a recall of Vuse Vibe devices. It stated that the batteries of Vuse Vibe vaporizers were malfunctioning and overheating after injuries were reported. The cause of the malfunction has not been disclosed.\n\nIn August 2018, Vuse launched the Vuse Alto, a pod mod-type vaporizer, which is the variant of e-cigarette that JUUL is. The Alto is marketed as a direct competitor to JUUL.\n"}
{"id": "2134626", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2134626", "title": "Warren Fellows", "text": "Warren Fellows\n\nWarren Fellows (born 13 September 1953) is an Australian former drug courier who was sentenced to life imprisonment in Thailand in 1978 for his role in a heroin trafficking operation that took place from Perth to Bangkok. In his best-selling book \"The Damage Done\", Fellows describes the violence and harsh conditions he experienced in Thailand prisons.\n\nFellows was born in Sydney, Australia. His father Bill Fellows, was a champion jockey and horse trainer who won the 1949 Melbourne Cup on Foxzami. He was the youngest of three children, but his two-year-old sister Gail, died in 1950 from a \"bowel complication\". His older brother Gary died when he was 36 years old. Gary was living with his wife Carole and two sons Brett and Rodney. He also had a son named Adrian Simon who wrote \"Milk-Blood\". Fellows was educated at De La Salle College, a Catholic school for boys in Ashfield, New South Wales. Fellows claims he was nearly expelled from the school when he was caught running a horse betting operation from his school desk. Warren \"left\" De La Salle College and went to Randwick North High School.\n\nFellows worked in various jobs, including as a barman and an apprentice hairdresser in Double Bay. It was through his bar work that he first became involved with drug trafficking, successfully importing hash from India with a friend. On his return to Australia he married and had a child. Word got out about the successful drug run and a customer in the bar where Fellows worked employed him to travel to Los Angeles, Hawaii and South America to smuggle cocaine into Australia. Fellows came to know drug dealer William Sinclair, who took him to Bangkok, Thailand where he was introduced to Neddy Smith and made his first successful attempt at smuggling heroin into Australia.\n\nAfter returning to Australia, Neddy Smith who was impressed with his smuggling skills, contacted Fellows and offered him a job. Smith did not have the notoriety he had later, but was already a major and feared figure in the Sydney criminal world. Fellows claims he became involved with Smith because he was \"young and impressionable\" and flattered that he \"was liked by a man most people were terrified of\". Fellows worked for Smith as a drug courier, domestically and internationally.\n\nIn October 1978, Smith instructed Fellows to again travel to Bangkok, this time in the company of Smith's brother-in-law Paul Hayward. Hayward played professional rugby league with the Newtown Jets and had been selected to represent Australia as a boxer at the 1976 Summer Olympics in Montreal, Quebec, Canada. Hayward had done \"favours\" for Smith, but this was his first international job. Fellows and Hayward became best friends. Prior to leaving Australia, Fellows was tipped off by a friend with a police contact at Manly, that the Commonwealth Police believed he was involved in a large drug importation operation and had him under surveillance. Fellows reported this to Smith who dismissed it, claiming that he would have been informed if it were true. Smith insisted they continue with the job.\n\nHayward and Fellows became increasingly apprehensive, but after Smith lost his patience with them and made implied threats, they reluctantly agreed to go through with the trip. Fellows was particularly anxious about returning to Bangkok. During his last trip in February 1978, he had been forced to abandon a package of heroin he had been attempting to ship back to Australia and feared that Thai police may have found it and been able to trace the drugs back to him. So Fellows procured a false passport through a friend, in the name of a deceased child Gregory Hastings Barker. Smith later said that Fellows got done because he booked his flight using Smith's telephone, although Fellows says that he can not remember whether he booked it with Smiths phone or not.\n\nOn arriving in Thailand, Fellows and Hayward met William Sinclair by chance. Sinclair now lived in Bangkok and owned the Texas Bar. Sinclair took them to his bar, and in a drunken state, attempted to obtain information from them about their trip. Unbeknown to them, the trio were under surveillance and the meeting appeared to police to incriminate Sinclair, even though according to Fellows, he was not involved. Fellows claims that there were many warning signs and that the night before they were arrested he had a \"moment of clarity\" and resolved to wash the heroin down the bath drain. But he fell asleep and was woken in the morning by police.\n\nOn 12 October 1978, the rooms occupied by Fellows and Hayward at the Montien Hotel in Bangkok were raided by Thai police. The pair were arrested when 8.5 kilograms of heroin was found in a suitcase in Hayward's room. Fellows alleges they were subjected to physical and psychological abuse at the hands of Thai Narcotics Suppression Unit officers who demanded they sign statements which they could not read because they were written in Thai. The officers demanded Fellows and Hayward make statements incriminating Sinclair. Fellows claims they resisted because Sinclair was innocent, but he eventually relented when officers informed them they were to be executed without trial under Article 27 of the military law and dragged Hayward outside for execution. Fellows and Hayward agreed to sign the statement and Sinclair was arrested and charged.\n\nThe three men were sent to Bambat remand centre at Klong Prem Central Prison, but after plotting an escape attempt were moved to \"Maha Chai\" the Special Bangkok Metropolitan Prison on Maha Chai Road (now the Bangkok Corrections Museum). They spent three years in Maha Chai before they were convicted of heroin trafficking. Sinclair and Fellows were sentenced to life imprisonment and Hayward was sentenced to 30 years' jail. They were sent to the Lard Yao prison but after five days there when Sinclair attempted to bribe the wrong guard, they were transferred to Bangkwang. Two years later, Sinclair's conviction was overturned on appeal in 1983. Hayward was later returned to Lard Yao, and later received a royal pardon and was released from Lard Yao on 7 April 1989. Fellows received a royal pardon and was released from Bangkwang on 11 January 1990.\n\nWhilst imprisoned in Thailand, Fellows attempted suicide several times, one he recalls was when he was locked into a darkroom he wrapped a sarong around his neck and tied it to a hook on the ceiling; however, he claimed as he felt his bowels fall the sarong snapped, causing him to fall, saving him. Fellows became addicted to heroin. He claimed that heroin was easily available in Thai prisons and was the only form of escape from the appalling conditions. In his autobiography \"The Damage Done\", he expressed great sympathy for those afflicted by addiction to drugs. He writes that it was \"an outstanding case of poetic justice\" that he should become addicted himself.\n\nOn his return to Australia, he spent two weeks in a hospital being treated for malnutrition and pneumonia. He expressed concern regarding his and Paul Hayward's ability to adapt back into society, an issue which he claims played a part in Hayward's death in 1992 from a heroin overdose. Fellows explains how he still has hallucinations of strange abnormal creatures hovering over him and watching him. Furthermore, Fellows claims that he has the same nightmare once a month, regarding him lying on a beach with two beautiful women feeling free and happy, however as he begins to walk off into the sunset he turns around and notices that the two girls have disappeared and that he is back in the Thailand Prison where a guard is calling his name telling him to go in his cell. Fellows says that although he is released from Bangkwang he will never be free from the tortures in his mind. In the late 2000s, Fellows commented in the media on the cases of the Bali Nine and Schapelle Corby.\n\nSheffield four-piece band Harrisons penned a song entitled \"Simmer Away\" after reading \"The Damage Done\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10225922", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10225922", "title": "Water Framework Directive 2000", "text": "Water Framework Directive 2000\n\nThe Water Framework Directive 2000/60/EC is an EU directive which commits European Union member states to achieve good qualitative and quantitative status of all water bodies (including marine waters up to one nautical mile from shore) by 2015. It is a framework in the sense that it prescribes steps to reach the common goal rather than adopting the more traditional limit value approach. The Directive's aim for 'good status' for all water bodies will not be achieved, with 47% of EU water bodies covered by the Directive failing to achieve the aim.\n\nThe Directive aims for 'good status' for all ground and surface waters (rivers, lakes, transitional waters, and coastal waters) in the EU.\n\nThe ecological and chemical status of surface waters are assessed according to the following criteria:\n\nThe Water Framework Directive stipulates that groundwater must achieve \"good quantitative status\" and \"good chemical status\" (i.e. not polluted) by 2015. Groundwater bodies are classified as either \"good\" or \"poor\".\n\nArticle 14 of the directive requires member states \"to encourage the active involvement of interested parties\" in the implementation of the directive. This is generally acknowledged to be an assimilation of the Aarhus Convention.\n\nOne important aspect of the Water Framework Directive is the introduction of River Basin Districts. These areas have been designated, not according to administrative or political boundaries, but rather according to the river basin (the spatial catchment area of the river) as a natural geographical and hydrological unit. As rivers often cross national borders, representatives from several Member States have to co-operate and work together for the management of the basin (so-called transboundary basins). They are managed according to River Basin Management Plans, which should provide a clear indication of the way the objectives set for the river basin are to be reached within the required timescale. They should be updated every six years.\n\nTo facilitate data recoding, each stretch of water is given a \"Water Framework Directive ID\" (\"WFDID\" or \"Waterbody ID\"). For example, the stretch of the River Tame, in the West Midlands of England, from the River Blythe to River Anker is referred to as GB104028046440.\n\nThe Ebro River Transfer, a project from the Spanish National Hydrological Plan of 2001 was highly criticised as being contrary to the principles of the EU Water Framework Directive, and later put on hold. The project planned to transfer huge amounts of water from the Ebro River to the south-east of Spain with the construction of 120 dams.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38547758", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38547758", "title": "Xylospongium", "text": "Xylospongium\n\nThe xylospongium (greek) or tersorium (roman), also known as \"sponge on a stick\", was a hygienic utensil used by ancient Romans to wipe their anus after defecating, consisting of a wooden stick (Greek: ξύλον, \"Xylon\") with a sea sponge (Greek: Σπόγγος, \"Spongos\") fixed at one end.\n\nThe tersorium was shared by people using public latrines. To clean the sponge, they simply washed it in a bucket with water and salt or vinegar. This became a breeding ground for bacteria, causing the spread of disease in the latrine.\n\nIn the classical antiquity a \"xylospongium\" might be used in the same way as we use a toilet brush.\n\nIn the \"baths of the seven sages\" in Ostia, a fresco from the 2nd century contains the Inscription \"(u)taris xylosphongio\" which is the first known mention of the term.\nAlso in the early second century a papyrus letter of Claudius Terentianus to his father Claudius Tiberianus uses the term \"xylospongium\" in a phrase.\n\nIn the middle of the first century Seneca reported that a Germanic gladiator had committed suicide with a sponge on a stick. The German hid himself in the latrine of an amphitheater and pushed the wooden stick into his gullet and choked to death.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46507095", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46507095", "title": "Yog gram", "text": "Yog gram\n\nYog gram is a naturopathy treatment centre situated in Haridwar, India. It was inaugurated by former Chief Minister of Uttarakhand Mr. B C Khanduri on 8 June 2008. It is a type of village where the environment is completely pure and natural. It provides physical, mental and spiritual health to the patients suffering from incurable disease through the integrated therapy of Ayurveda.\n\nThe concept yog gram is of yoga guru Baba Ramdev and his associate Acharya Balkrishna.\n\nYog gram have been described as Adarsh village, where following facilities are available.\n\n\nBaba Ramdev has started work to expand of Yog gram.This work will be the beginning of the first Tirupati. Very soon plan to build an Ayurvedic and Yog gram center in Tirupati. The number of patients coming in Yog Gram for treatment is increasing. Therefore, the capacity of Yog Gram has expanded to serve 600 patients.Earlier we have able to cater to 300 patients.\n\n"}
