{"id": "22946117", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22946117", "title": "Afro-Chileans", "text": "Afro-Chileans\n\nAfro-Chileans are citizens of Chile, descended from Africans who were brought to the New World with the arrival of the Spaniards toward the end of the slave trade\n\nA specific group of blacks in Chilean history are the members of the 8th Regiment of The Andean Liberation Army that fought the Spaniards in Chacabuco. That was the Army organized in Argentinian territory and led by San Martin to liberate Chile and later allow the liberation of Peru. San Martin demanded black slaves as contribution to the Liberation Army by the Mendoza landowners, because in his opinion blacks were the only people capable of participating in the infantry component of the Army, and included them in the forces commanded later by O'Higgins. They were included in the Andean Liberation Army and received their freedom after the crossing of the Andes and the fight against the Spaniards. As members of the infantry they were exposed to higher risks during battle. This episode of the history of Chile is very seldom mentioned and the group of blacks has never received any recognition for their contribution to the liberation of Chile.\n\nThe African minority that lived in Santiago, Quillota or Valparaiso began to mix with gypsies, and Europeans, shaping a whole new ethnic and cultural identity for Chile.\n\nChile banned slavery in 1811 through the \"Liberty of womb\" law made by Manuel de Salas, seven years after he had read the following announcement in a newspaper: \"For sale: 22 to 24-year-old mulatto, nice condition, good price.\" Thanks to this ban, dictated in 1823, Chile became the second country in Latin America to prohibit slavery, after Haiti.\n\nDespite the gradual emancipation of most black slaves in Chile, slavery continued along the Pacific coast of South America throughout the 19th century, as Peruvian slave traders kidnapped Polynesians, primarily from the Marquesas Islands and Easter Island, and forced them to perform physical labour in mines and in the guano industry of Peru and Chile.\n\nFinally, there was one more event that added the African inheritance to the Chilean blood. When the city of Arica was finally integrated to Chile, in 1929, a lot of Afro-descendants began living under the Chilean law. They are part of the \"Black Arica\", and they work daily to promote their traditions and culture, proving that their influence goes beyond the \"cueca\" or \"zamacueca\".\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24905696", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24905696", "title": "Al-Hadi Ghalib", "text": "Al-Hadi Ghalib\n\nAl-Hadi Ghalib (1823 - September 30, 1885) was an Imam of the Zaidi state in Yemen who ruled in 1851-1852, and made subsequent periodical claims to the imamate up to the Ottoman intervention in 1872.\n\nGhalib bin Muhammad bin Yahya was the son of Imam al-Mutawakkil Muhammad. When his father was imprisoned and murdered in 1849, Ghalib managed to escape. He took refuge with the Dhu Muhammad and Dhu Husayn tribes. In the following years a number of claimants to the position of imam appeared in the Yemeni highlands. In order to settle the uneasy matter a meeting was convened in 1851 at Al Rawdah, north of the capital San'a. The claimants agreed to accept whoever was appointed. Ghalib was one of those present, and was appointed under the name al-Hadi Ghalib. During his short imamate he entertained contacts with the Ottomans, who occupied the Yemeni lowlands (Tihamah). He took a submissive position vis-à-vis the Porte.\n\nHis reign was turbulent, since fighting broke out with a rival called Abbas. They each held a part of San'a. In view of the civil strife, many ulema left for other cities. In 1852, finally, al-Hadi Ghalib had to leave San'a and the inhabitants chose a governor (\"wali\"), the shaykh Ahmad al-Haymi. According to the British political agent R.L. Playfair, he was once again acknowledged in name around 1858. Governor al-Haymi was counted as his wazir.\n\nNevertheless, when al-Hadi Ghalib tried to enter San'a in 1857/58, the gates were closed in his face. The imam and his followers besieged San'a, but governor al-Haymi thwarted his ambitions. In the following year, al-Haymi, increasingly impopular among the city dwellers, was forced to flee San'a. The city was subsequently governed by another \"wali\", Muhsin Mu'id, in 1860-1872. By the early 1870s Muhsin Mu'id expelled the current imam al-Mutawakkil al-Muhsin and once again elevated al-Hadi Ghalib to the dignity.\n\nIn the meantime, the opening of the Suez Canal in 1869 gave a new impetus to the Turks to take a steadier grip on Yemen, in order to counter British influence among the tribes of the region. The new imam and Muhsin Mu'id found reason to take on a welcoming attitude to the Turks, who marched into San'a in April 1872. With these events the Zaidi state founded in 1597 was terminated, although it arose again several decades later. Turkish administration was introduced and the impoverished imam was forbidden to mix with the chiefs. He subsequently lived on a monthly salary provided by the Ottoman authorities, until his death in Al Rawdah, just to the north of San'a, in 1885.\n\n"}
{"id": "4109446", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4109446", "title": "Aloisiuskolleg", "text": "Aloisiuskolleg\n\nThe Aloisiuskolleg is a co-educational, Jesuit (Catholic), University-preparatory school in Bonn-Bad Godesberg, Germany, which includes boarders. It is named for Saint Aloysius Gonzaga. It has an excellent reputation and is considered one of the most prestigious boarding schools in Germany. Since early 2010 the school has been investigated for cases of child abuse.\n\nSince 1921 the Jesuits have operated a boarding school for boys in Bonn Bad-Godesberg. Ninety-four percent of its budget is provided by German North Rhine-Westphalia, even though the college is non-governmental, run by the Jesuits. The remaining 6% is covered by the Archdiocese of Cologne. The school is open to everyone. The State conducts the school-leaving examination (called the Abitur, the equivalent of A-levels in the UK) and proposes the subjects of instruction. In turn, the school is recognized by the State, and a successfully completed Abitur by any graduate allows admission to a German university. Lodging, food, and boarding run about €14,000 per year, while students from impoverished families are sponsored by the Jesuits or by the charge for other boarders.\n\nThe Aloisiuskolleg (AKO) ranks high each year at regional, national, and even international school competitions in sports, as well as in subjects like physics, chemistry, biology, mathematics, music, art, and computer sciences, and has won several awards. A PISA study ranked the school 4th in Germany and among the best in Europe. Also in other OECD studies the school is usually ranked highly.\n\nThe College attaches importance to international contacts, and has promoted cultural exchange with other countries since its founding. Since 1997 this has included the European Union's COMENIUS program which promotes co-operation among European schools. Partnerships exist with Clongowes Wood College (Ireland), Eton College and Maidenhead (both in England), and Georgetown Prep in Washington, D.C., United States.\n\nAs a consequence of the Kulturkampf, the State of Prussia took over by law the supervision of all Jesuit schools in 1872. On 12 August 1900 the German province of the Society of Jesus opened the Aloisiuskolleg in Sittard, Netherlands, as an all-boys school with boarding facilities. This started with German nationals, 43 internal and 38 external pupils on 29 September 1900 with a pre-class and 5th and 6th grades. This was the beginning of the Aloisiuskollegs.\n\nThe law against Jesuits (\"Jesuitengesetz\") was repealed in 1917 and new schools opened again in Germany. The Aloisiuskolleg moved to Bonn in 1921. In 1927 the Jesuits also acquired a nearby villa owned by the banker August Karl Baron von der Heydt, son of August von der Heydt, and turned it into \"Stella Rheni\", a boys' home.\n\nDuring the Nazi period, the school and the Jesuits opposed the regime and the school was closed in 1938. The active resistance by the Jesuits and the pupils plays an important role in the contemporary self-understanding of the College. Well-known resistors to the Nazis were Georg Freiherr von Boeselager and his brother Philipp. The Jesuits reopened the Aloisiuskolleg in 1946, after the end of World War II.\n\nFrom early 2010 the school was at the centre of investigations into the abuse of pupils, resulting in the resignation of Chairman Theo Schneider who was accused of complicity. The progress report by the commission investigating cases of abuse counted 45 victims and 18 perpetrators, 15 of whom were members of the Jesuit order, since the 1950s. The interim report highlighted the \"latent psychological violence\" in the punishment methods, the compulsive exhibitionism, and crossing the line with paedo-erotic acts of the late chairman, P. Ludger Stüper, S.J. who apparently approved of photographing child nudity, even when they were uncomfortable with it. A 2011 report concludes that \"only in one case can a co-operation of religious, provincial, and school leaders be recognized to cover up sexual abuse... at the beginning of the sixties.\"\n\nIn the 1980s, the Aloisiuskolleg along with nearby Clara Fey High School became co-educational in the upper classes: all students had their choice of either school. After 2002 the Aloisiuskolleg accepted girls in the lower classes, then in 2005 a separate boarding facility was built for girls.\n\nThe school is a U-shaped, three-storey building from the 1920s. In addition to classrooms it houses two rooms each for chemistry, physics, computers, and music along with a language laboratory and a library. Workmen's equipment is located under the gyms and includes welding devices, a joinery, and printing presses.\n\nBetween the school building and the newer boarding houses is the \"Fathers Tower\", a five-storey square tower in which the fathers lived since improvements in the 1970s. Prior to this, boarding schools with the youngest pupils were accommodated on the two upper floors, which gave the building the nickname \"boys silo\".\n\nThe sports facilities include two gymnasiums next to the school building. In front of the gyms is a basketball court. The school yard also contains a basketball and handball court. Beyond the school yard on the way to Stella there is a football field, a tartan track, five tennis courts, and a half-court (wall-court).\n\nIn 1891-1893 the Elberfeld banker Baron Karl von der Heydt commissioned the \"Castle on the Juniper\" by the architect Heinrich Plange in neoclassical architecture and gave it the name \"Stella Rheni\" (Latin for \"Star of the Rhine\"). From this strictly geometrical building in yellow sandstone, you can enjoy a view over the Rhine valley and Siebengebirge. who also landscaped Charlottenburg laid out the extensive park. Since 1927, the Jesuit Villa has been used as a boarding school for young and middle-class boys.\n\nThe \"Jägerhaus\", formerly belonging to the Heydts, is a highly romantic miniature version of a hunting castle and lies about 200 meters below the Stella. Here the primary students used to live on their own, without supervision.\n\nThe new building was built together with the school building in the 1960s and was connected to the Fathers' Tower. It was L-shaped and was renovated in 2006. In the renovation a part of it was demolished and replaced by a newly-built rotunda: the classic L-shape was not retained. From the new building there is direct access to the rotunda.\n\nThe girls' house was finished in September 2005 after a year of construction on the former fruit orchards opposite the school, by the office of architects Pilhatsch & Partner. The girls' house opened in the summer of 2006, since in the transitional period the building was used for the boys who were boarding, who had to leave the old \"new building\" temporarily because of renovation work.\n\nAn octagonal church was built in the early 1980s, on the site of a dilapidated church from the 1960s. The showpiece of the church is a bronze sculpture of an angel by Ewald Mataré.\n\nFormer pupils of the school can remain connected through the alumni network. Former pupils of the Aloisiuskolleg, Kolleg St. Blasien, and the Canisius-Kolleg Berlin College can find addresses at Stellaner webpage. For alumni of the Aloisiuskolleg there is a special association, found at Aloisiuskolleg Alumni.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45660513", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45660513", "title": "Aronson Prize", "text": "Aronson Prize\n\nThe Aronson Prize () is a prize awarded for achievements in microbiology and immunology. It was established by the will of the pediatrician and bacteriologist Hans Aronson and has been awarded since 1921. Aronson bequeathed a large part of his estate to the establishment of the prize. The prize is awarded biannually on 8 March, the date of Aronson's death.\n\nIn 1969, the foundation that awarded the prize was dissolved on the initiative of its last chairman Georg Henneberg, and the responsibility for the prize and the remaining capital was transferred to the (West) Berlin government, in order to safeguard the existence of the prize. Since 1970, the prize has been awarded by the Senate of Berlin.\n\nThe first laureate was August von Wassermann. Among the Aronson laureates are several scientists who later were awarded the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine, such as Karl Landsteiner and Gerhard Domagk.\n"}
{"id": "8988828", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8988828", "title": "Asian American Legal Defense and Education Fund", "text": "Asian American Legal Defense and Education Fund\n\nThe Asian American Legal Defense and Education Fund (AALDEF) is a New York-based national organization founded in 1974 that protects and promotes the civil rights of Asian Americans. By combining litigation, advocacy, education, and organizing, AALDEF works with Asian American communities across the country to secure human rights for all.\n\nIn 1974, a small group of lawyers, activists and students in Lower Manhattan came together to create a new organization focused on the legal needs of the Asian American community. AALDEF was the first nonprofit organization on the East Coast to focus specifically on defending the civil rights of the Asian American community.\n\nThe 1970s\n\nSome early AALDEF advocacy efforts included: calling for the hiring of Chinese American construction workers at Confucius Plaza in Manhattan's Chinatown and mounting a campaign to stop the deportation of Filipino doctors, who had been recruited to fill the shortage of medical personnel in the United States. AALDEF volunteer attorneys represented Chinese Americans arrested in a protest against police brutality in Manhattan's Chinatown and joined a rally to support an innocent bystander, Peter Yew, who was beaten by police after complaining about their mishandling of a minor traffic incident. In 1977, AALDEF organized free legal advice clinics at Hamilton-Madison House, Korean Senior Citizens Society, and other community agencies in New York City. In an early affirmative action case, AALDEF intervened on behalf of the Asian American Law Students Association in \"Doherty v. Rutgers Law School\", defending the inclusion of Asian Americans in minority admissions programs in a lawsuit brought by rejected white law school applicant. AALDEF also filed an \"amicus\" brief in the U.S. Supreme Court in \"Fullilove v. Kreps\", supporting the public works set-aside provision of minority businesses, including Asian American enterprises.\n\nThe 1980s\n\nEconomic justice was a primary focus in the 1980s. AALDEF represented the Chinese immigrant waiters at Silver Palace restaurant in Manhattan's Chinatown. The workers, who were fired for protesting against the employer who stole their tips, later formed the first independent Chinatown restaurant workers' union in the nation. At the first-ever rally of 15,000 Chinese garment workers at New York Chinatown's Columbus Park, who went on strike for a new Local 23-25 ILGWU union contract, AALDEF was the only community organization invited to speak at this rally because it took a clear stand in support of the labor rights of low-wage immigrant workers. AALDEF also filed amicus briefs in the U.S. Supreme Court supporting the rights of undocumented immigrants to receive a public education (\"Plyler v. Doe\") and to organize under the National Labor Relations Act (\"Sure-Tan v. NLRB\").\n\nAALDEF was active in two national campaigns generating broad pan-Asian American support across the country. The first involved a demand for the federal civil rights prosecution of the murderers of Vincent Chin, the Chinese American engineer beaten to death by two unemployed auto workers in Detroit. The second was the movement for redress for Japanese Americans, who were incarcerated during World War II solely because of their race and national origin. AALDEF testified in support of Japanese American redress before the U.S. Commission on Wartime Relocation and Internment of Civilians, which led to the passage of the Civil Liberties Act of 1988. Civil rights hero Fred Korematsu made his first public appearance in New York City for AALDEF's 10th anniversary celebration at Lincoln Center, featuring the East Coast premiere of Steven Okazaki's film,\" Unfinished Business\", about the Japanese American redress movement.\n\nOn a local level, AALDEF represented Dr. Kaushal Sharan, one of several South Asians attacked in Jersey City by a hate group named the \"dotbusters.\" Although federal civil rights charges against his assailants were dropped, AALDEF then worked to secure passage of a hate crimes law in New Jersey and testified before the U.S. House Judiciary Subcommittee on Civil and Constitutional Rights about the rise in anti-Asian violence. AALDEF participated in the formation of the Coalition Against Anti-Asian Violence (now called CAAAV: Organizing Asian Communities), which organized the first educational forum in New York City on hate violence against Asian Americans.\n\nAs to housing and environmental justice, AALDEF launched a fight against gentrification and the displacement of low-income immigrant tenants in Manhattan's Chinatown. AALDEF organized the first Chinatown housing fair in New York City, designed to educate residents about rent control and other rent regulation laws and the prohibitions against tenant harassment. In \"Jin v. Board of Estimate,\" AALDEF filed an \"amicus\" brief in NY state court, arguing that English-language notices of zoning changes violated the due process rights of Chinese-speaking tenants. This favorable decision was later reversed on appeal. AALDEF then litigated \"Chinese Staff and Workers' Association v. City of New York,\" and won a landmark New York Court of Appeals case . The state's high court ruled for the first time that new residential developments that may displace low-income tenants and small businesses are subject to environmental review. This decision blocked the construction of a proposed high-rise luxury condominium tower in Chinatown until an environmental assessment statement was prepared.\n\nIn 1985, the North Star Fund presented AALDEF with the Frederick Douglass Award for \"outstanding contributions to the struggle for political, social and economic justice.\"\n\nThe 1990s\n\nIn 1993, when the Golden Venture freighter ran aground in Far Rockaway, Queens, AALDEF was among the first legal groups to gain access to the Varick Street detention center where hundreds of Chinese nationals were being held. AALDEF later represented Chinese immigrants seeking political asylum.\n\nIn 1990, AALDEF supported Actors' Equity Association to protest the casting of a white British actor in a lead Asian role in the Broadway musical, \"Miss Saigon.\" AALDEF worked with the New York City Human Rights Commission to organize hearings on the discriminatory hiring practices of Broadway theater producers.\n\nIn 1992, AALDEF was the only Asian American group invited to testify before the U.S. House Judiciary Committee on expanding minority language assistance under the Voting Rights Act, affecting 200,000 Asian Americans nationwide.\n\nAALDEF led the advocacy efforts to secure the first fully translated Chinese-language voting machine ballots in New York City under the Voting Rights Act in 1994. Despite initial opposition by the NYC Board of Elections, the Board changed its position after receiving a letter from the U.S. Department of Justice denying preclearance of its language assistance program under the Voting Rights Act.\n\nThe 2000s\n\nAfter 9/11/01 AALDEF, located just eight blocks from the World Trade Center, convened a series of emergency meetings with Chinatown and Lower Manhattan advocates to begin the rebuilding process and address the environmental health, housing, and employment problems of displaced residents and workers. As part of the Beyond Ground Zero Network, AALDEF helped to establish a free clinic at Bellevue Hospital to provide treatment for residents and workers with 9/11-related health problems. AALDEF also defended the rights of South Asians, Arabs, Jews, Iranians, and Muslims who were detained without any criminal charges or evidence of wrongdoing. AALDEF challenged the unfair enforcement of post-9/11 immigration laws and counseled hundreds of immigrants facing deportation at legal clinics.\n\nIn 2005, AALDEF launched its Anti-Trafficking Initiative to provide legal assistance to Asian women and girls who are survivors of human trafficking. In a 2009 case, AALDEF represented a Filipino woman who sued her employer, a consular official, when she was forced to work as a domestic worker for $100 per month and prevented from leaving the residence. She overcame her employer's defense of diplomatic immunity to her claims of human trafficking, involuntary servitude, and forced labor, and the case was resolved.\n\nWith respect to educational equity, AALDEF filed several civil rights complaints on behalf of Asian immigrant students subjected to racial violence and harassment at Lafayette high School and at South Philadelphia High School.\n\nThe 2010s\n\nIn 2012, AALDEF won a $1.2 million judgment in a human trafficking civil suit on behalf of a Filipina domestic worker subjected to involuntary servitude and forced labor in Rhode Island.\n\nAALDEF represents individuals and community groups that are most directly affected by racial and economic injustice: immigrants, the working poor, and persons not yet proficient in English. From Chinese take-out delivery workers in New York and Nepalese domestic workers in New Jersey, to Vietnamese American youth in Louisiana and Bangladeshi voters in Michigan, AALDEF addresses the legal needs of diverse Asian American groups.\n\nAALDEF has litigated several precedent-setting cases on behalf of low-wage Asian immigrant workers, winning millions of dollars in back wages and overtime pay owed to these workers in the restaurant, and nail salon industries. By working in multiracial coalitions, AALDEF has brought Asian American perspectives to policy debates and organized campaigns to stop hate violence, police misconduct and human trafficking. After the September 11 attacks on the World Trade Center, AALDEF defended the civil liberties of South Asians, Arabs, Jews, Iranians, and Muslims who were the targets of racial and ethnic profiling. AALDEF has worked with grassroots groups to promote educational equity and youth rights and to ensure that Asian Americans have a greater voice in the political process. AALDEF has trained hundreds of young lawyers and students through its internship programs, encouraging Asian Americans to use their legal skills to serve the community.\n\nAALDEF has a 14-person staff, including six attorneys. The organization works with more than 300 volunteers, including pro bono attorneys, community workers, and students. AALDEF receives financial support from foundations, corporations, individual contributions and special fundraising events. AALDEF receives no government funds.\n\nThere is relatively little data about the voting patterns of Asian Americans. Asian American voters often are overlooked by the mainstream media and by candidates for political office. As a result, mainstream exit polls typically report racial breakdowns for whites, African Americans, Latinos and \"others.\" When the media neglect the Asian American vote, candidates often follow suit.\n\nMultilingual exit polls give a fuller and more accurate portrait of Asian American voters than polls conducted in English. AALDEF conducted its first exit poll in 1988 in New York City. In the 2008 elections, AALDEF's Asian American Exit Poll reported on the preferences of almost 17,000 Asian American voters in 11 states and Washington, D.C. In the 2009 New York City elections, AALDEF's exit poll found that Asian American voters overwhelmingly supported Asian American candidates.\n\nIn the 2012 elections, AALDEF polled 9,096 Asian American voters in 14 states and Washington, D.C.\n\n\"The Asian American Vote in 2016\" is AALDEF's most recent report on the 2016 multilingual exit poll of 13,846 Asian American voters in 14 states. One news report suggested that Asian American support for President Trump was overstated in national exit polls, which did not survey voters in multiple Asian languages.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "71644", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=71644", "title": "Association of State Green Parties", "text": "Association of State Green Parties\n\nThe Association of State Green Parties was an organization of state Green Parties in the United States between 1996 and 2001. In 2001, it evolved into the Green Party of the United States.\n\nIn the aftermath of the first Green presidential campaign in 1996, 62 Greens from 30 states gathered over the weekend of November 16–17, 1996 to found the Association of State Green Parties (ASGP). The meeting was held at the historic Glen-Ora Farm in Middleburg, Virginia where Jack Kennedy had his weekend retreat in his administration's early days (rented to the president by the mother of ASGP meeting host and Nader supporter Elaine Broadhead.)\n\nGreen Parties from 13 states were the founding members, and approved an initial set of bylaws that set out the ASGP's purpose: (1) Assist in the development of State Green Parties and (2) Create a legally structured national Green Party. The founding meeting also established a national newsletter Green Pages, which carries forward today as the newspaper of the GPUS. The founding editor was Mike Feinstein.\n\nSubsequent ASGP meetings occurred in Portland, OR (April 5–6, 1997), Topsham, ME (October 3–5, 1997),Santa Fe, NM (April 24–26, 1998), Moodus, CT (June 5–6, 1999) and Hiawassee, GA (December 8–10, 2000). Ralph Nader appeared in Moodus to talk about running for president the next year.\n\nThe concept of the ASGP came out of the 1991 national Greens Gathering in Elkins, West Virginia, where a committee was tasked with examining what an eventual Green Party might look it. The committee produced a report with contributions from six authors, among them Greg Gerritt from Maine. Gerritt's suggestion was for the creation of an Association of State Green Parties based on sovereign state parties, essentially as he argued, how all parties end up structured in the US. The reaction within the GPUSA was, according to Gerritt, to throw him out of the GPUSA. But that did not kill the concept. Instead it was shared by those involved in the establishment of the Green Politics Network in 1992, and what was founded in 1996 in Middleburg very closely reflected the proposal Gerritt originally submitted.\n\nThe ASGP was predominantly focused on establishing state Green Parties and running and electing Greens for public office, even while its member state parties and the individual Greens involved remained involved in issue activism. From 1997 to 1999, as more state Green Parties continued to form, a highly competitive environment between the ASGP and the Greens/Green Party USA (G/GPUSA) began to develop in terms of who would affiliate with which organization, and ultimately who would become the definitive national Green Party. To some extent this divide reflected philosophical differences within U.S. Greens that went back to the late 1980s and early 1990s, around how a Green political party should be organized - based upon state parties, or upon dues-paying local Green groups.\n\nIn December 1999, Santa Monica, CA Green City Councilmember Mike Feinstein and New York Green Howie Hawkins met in New Platz, New York during the state meeting of the Green Party of New York State and crafted the 'Plan for a Single National Green Party, which was more generally known as the Feinstein/Hawkins Proposal, meant to create a single national Green Party from among the ASGP and GPUSA by Earth Day, April 2000. The proposal found quick support within the ASGP, but not within the Greens/GPUSA in time for Earth Day.\n\nInstead it would be in October 2000 that the Feinstein/Hawkins proposal was revisited, negotiated further and renamed the 'Boston Proposal' or 'Boston Agreement' (so named because it was negotiated in Boston on October 1–2 in the days before the first 2000 presidential debate).\n\nThe negotiators for the Association of State Green Parties were Tony Affigne, David Cobb, Robert Franklin, Greg Gerritt, Anne Goeke, Stephen Herrick, and Tom Sevigny; and for the Greens/Green Party USA: Starlene Rankin, John Stith, Jeff Sutter, Steve Welzer, Rich Whitney, and Julia Willebrand.\nThe Boston Proposal was approved was by the ASGP at its December 2000 meeting in Hiawasee, GA, but did not pass at the July 2001 G/GPUSA Congress in Carbondale, CO. This caused a schism in G/GPUSA membership from which it never recovered. The next week on July 29 in Santa Barbara, CA the ASGP voted to become the Green Party of the United States, held a press conference in Santa Monica on July 30 to announce it, and was subsequently recognized as having National Committee status by the Federal Election Commission.\n\nText of the Boston Proposal: JOINT PROPOSAL OF NEGOTIATING COMMITTEES OF THE ASSOCIATION OF STATE GREEN PARTIES and THE GREENS/GREEN PARTY USA\n\nThe Negotiating Committees of the Association of State Green Parties and the Greens/Green Party USA, meeting on October 1–2, 2000, have agreed unanimously to recommend to their respective organizations the following proposal for the creation of a new national Green Party, to be called \"Green Party of the United States,\" and a National Committee of the Green Party, which will apply to the Federal Election Commission for official recognition as a national political party.\n\n1. The Greens/Green Party USA may continue as an independent organization but will cease functioning as a political party and will adopt a new name that will omit the word, \"party.\" It will relinquish the domain name, \"www.greenparty.org\" to the new party.\n\n2. The Green Party shall leave the question of state dues entirely to the state parties and shall neither encourage state parties to collect dues nor discourage state parties from collecting dues.\n\n3. The new Green Party shall have a paid \"sustaining members\" category of membership and shall encourage members of all state parties to become sustaining members of the national organization.\n\n4. State parties in the new Green Party shall have written democratic by-laws and at least one convention a year (whether it be a general membership assembly or a delegate assembly elected by locals and members-at-large).\n\n5. State Green Parties shall make a good faith effort, where reasonable, to have delegates to the National Committee elected by clusters of local groups. The basis of representation to the National Committee shall be one person, one vote, and in the United States, Congressional Districts are a reasonable approximation of equal population areas. Local groups within a Congressional District or Districts shall come together for the purpose of electing delegates. (Statement of intent: The exact number of delegates and the size of the areas to be used for selecting these delegates is currently under study and will be determined by the ASGP.)\n\n6. Representation to the National Committee shall be based on the principle of one delegate per specified number of Congressional Districts, provided that there is a requisite level of Green Party activity, electoral and/or non-electoral, being conducted in those Congressional Districts.\n\n7. The Accreditation Criteria of the Green Party National Committee shall include the following in addition to the criteria currently used by the ASGP:\na. Evidence of commitment to, and good faith efforts to achieve, gender balance in party leadership and representation.\nb. Evidence of good faith efforts to empower individuals and groups from oppressed communities, through, for example, leadership responsibilities, identity caucuses and alliances with community-based organizations, and endorsements of issues and policies.\n\n8. The Green Party National Committee shall reserve seats for representatives of nationally organized caucuses for traditionally disempowered groups, provided that each caucus shall demonstrate a total membership of at least 100 people, from at least 15 member states, use democratic procedures and choose to send representatives to the National Committee.\n\n9. The G/GPUSA Negotiating Committee recommends to the affiliates of G/GPUSA that a mail referendum of the Green Congress be initiated. The referendum shall ask the Congress to authorize the G/GPUSA National Committee to certify whether the ASGP, at its December 2000 meeting, amends its bylaws to reflect the terms of this joint proposal. The mail referendum will also authorize the G/GPUSA National Committee to (a) adopt a new name that will omit the word \"party\"; (b) relinquish the domain name \"www.greenparty.org\" to the new party; and (c) support the request of the ASGP for an advisory opinion on the national committee status of the new party, provided that it does in fact certify that the ASGP has amended its bylaws in accordance with this proposal.\n\nIn September 1998, the New Mexico Green Party proposed that an ASGP Presidential Exploratory Committee be established for the 2000 elections. The ASGP Coordinating Committee passed the proposal on October 30, and on December 20 the ASGP Steering Committee appointed a seven-person committee, chaired by then Texas Green David Cobb. On February 22, 1999 the Committee sent a letter and questionnaire to prospective presidential and vice presidential candidates, asking if they were interested in running on the Green Party ticket in 2000 and if so, how would they envision conducting the campaign: Wendell Berry, Jerry Brown, Lester Brown, Noam Chomsky, Ron Daniels, Ron Dellums, Lani Guinier, Dan Hamburg, Woody Harrelson, Paul Hawken, Jim Hightower, Molly Ivins, Winona LaDuke, Bill McKibben, Cynthia McKinney, Toni Morrison, Ralph Nader, Ron Ouellette (requested the questionnaire), John Robbins and Jan Schlichtmann. On May 10 the committee also sent the letter and questionnaire to: Harry Belafonte, Julian Bond, Joycelyn Elders, Kurt Schmoke, Studs Terkel, Myrlie Evers-Williams and Gen. George Lee Butler.\n\nBrown, McKibben, Chomsky, Guinier, Hawken, Miller wrote back declining, but all graciously thanking the ASGP for its outreach, and offering sympathetic statements of support for the Green Party project.\n\nNader also replied: \"If I seek the nomination - a decision that will not be made until next year- and receive that designation, I will pursue a dedicated and thorough campaign that meets the Federal Election Commission requirements. Such an active campaign will have the objective of strengthening our nation’s democracy by strengthening the Green Party movement at the local, state and national levels; by emphasizing the problems of, and remedies for, the excessive concentration of corporate power and wealth in our country, by highlighting the important tools of democracy needed for the American people as voters/citizens, workers, consumers, taxpayers, and small savers/investors. If there are Greens who support my seeking the nomination, I encourage them to expand the number of volunteers and increase the time spent working to build the Green Party this year in order to advance the Party’s “Key Values” and to increase the likelihood of ballot access in all fifty states.\"\n\nIn April 2001, the ASGP was represented at the founding congress of the Global Greens by Mike Feinstein, Annie Goeke and John Rensenbrink. The ASGP was also a founding member party of the Federacíon de Partidos Verdes de las Americas in 1998.\n"}
{"id": "7036217", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7036217", "title": "Baghdad Jewish Arabic", "text": "Baghdad Jewish Arabic\n\nBaghdad Jewish Arabic () is the Arabic dialect spoken by the Jews of Baghdad and other towns of Southern Iraq. This dialect differs from the dialect spoken by the Jews in Northern Iraq, such as Mosul and 'Ana. The Baghdadi and Northern dialects may be regarded as subvarieties of Judeo-Iraqi Arabic. As with most Judeo-Arab communities, there are likely to be few, if any, speakers of the Judeo-Iraqi Arabic dialects who still reside within Iraq. Rather these dialects have been maintained or are facing critical endangerment within respective Judeo-Iraqi diasporas, namely those of Israel and the United States. In 2014, the film \"Farewell Baghdad\" (Arabic: مطير الحمام; Hebrew: מפריח היונים, lit. \"The Dove Flyer\"), which is performed mostly in Jewish Baghdadi Arabic dialect, became the first film to be almost completely performed in Judeo-Iraqi Arabic.\n\nBaghdad Jewish Arabic (and Baghdadi Christian Arabic) resemble the dialect of Northern Iraq, and more distantly that of Syria, rather than the Baghdad Arabic spoken by the Muslims. The Muslim dialect is classified as a \"gilit\" dialect (from their pronunciation of the Arabic word for \"I said\") while the others are \"qeltu\" dialects. Another resemblance between Baghdad Jewish Arabic and North Mesopotamian Arabic is the pronunciation of \"ra\" as a uvular. This peculiarity goes back centuries: in medieval Iraqi Judaeo-Arabic manuscripts the letters \"ra\" and \"ghayn\" are frequently interchanged. It is thought that the \"qeltu\" dialects represent the older Arabic dialect of Mesopotamia while the \"gilit\" dialect is of Bedouin origin. Another factor may be the northern origins of the Jewish community of Baghdad after 1258 (see below under History). Like Northern Mesopotamian and Syrian Arabic, Jewish Baghdadi Arabic shows some signs of an Aramaic substrate. Violette Shamosh records that, at the Passover Seder, she could understand some of the passages in Aramaic but none of the passages in Hebrew.\n\nThe Mongol invasion wiped out most of the inhabitants of Mesopotamia. Later, the original qeltu Baghdadi dialect became extinct as a result of massive Bedouin immigrations to Lower Mesopotamia and was replaced by the Bedouin influenced Gelet dialect. The Jews of Baghdad are a largely indigenous population and they also preserve the pre-Mongol invasion dialect of Baghdad in its Jewish form, which is similar but a bit different from the general pre-Mongol Baghdadi dialect due to the linguistic influences of Hebrew and Judeo-Babylonian Aramaic, instead of the general Babylonian Aramaic that existed before the Islamic invasion.\n\nAs with other respective religious and ethnic communities coexisting in Baghdad, the Jewish community had almost exclusively spoken as well as written in their distinctive dialect, largely drawing their linguistic influences from Hebrew and Judeo-Aramaic and even non-linguistic influences from languages such as Sumerian, Akkadian, Persian and Turkish. Simultaneous fluency and literacy in the Arabic used by the dominant Muslim communities had also been commonplace.\n\nWith waves of persecution and thus emigration, the dialect has been carried to and until recently used within respective Judeo-Iraqi diaspora communities, spanning Bombay, Calcutta, Singapore, Hong Kong, Manchester and numerous other international urban hubs. After the mass emigration of Jews from Iraq to Israel between the 1940s and 1960s, Israel came to hold the single largest linguistic community of Judeo-Iraqi Arabic speakers. With successive generations being born and raised in Israel, it is mainly the older people who still actively or passively speak Judeo-Baghdadi and other forms of Judeo-Iraqi Arabic. Israelis of Iraqi descent in turn are largely unilingual Israeli Hebrew speakers.\n\nThe Jews of Baghdad also have a written Judeo-Arabic that differs from the spoken language and uses Hebrew characters. There is a sizeable published religious literature in the language, including several Bible translations and the \"Qanūn an-nisā\"' ( of the hakham Yosef Hayyim.\n\nThe following method of describing the letters of the Hebrew alphabet was used by teachers in Baghdad until quite recently:\nJB is relatively conservative in preserving Classical Arabic phonemes. Classical Arabic has remained as an uvular (or post-velar) stop, like Christian Baghdad Arabic, but unlike in Muslim Baghdad Arabic where it is pronounced as . is retained as , like in Christian Baghdadi, but unlike the Muslim dialect where it is sometimes . Classical Arabic interdental are preserved, like in Muslim Baghdadi Arabic (Christian Baghdadi Arabic merges them into ). has merged into .\n\nThere are a few rare minimal pairs with (e.g. \"wáḷḷa\" 'by God! (an oath)' vs. \"wálla\" 'he went away', \"ḅāḅa\" 'father, dad' vs. \"bāba\" 'her door'). In other words, there are velarized segments which cannot be demonstrated to be phonemic, but which cannot be substituted, e.g. \"ṃāṃa\" 'mother, mummy'. There is a certain degree of velarization harmony.\n\nThe consonants were originally of foreign origin, but have pervaded the language to the extent that native speakers do not perceive or even realize their non-native origin.\n\nStress is usually on the ultimate or penultimate syllable, but sometimes on the antipenultimate (mostly in loans or compound words).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14658232", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14658232", "title": "Bayads", "text": "Bayads\n\nThe Bayad (Mongol: Баяд/Bayad, \"lit. \"the Riches\"\") is the third largest subgroup of the Mongols in Mongolia and they are a tribe in Four Oirats. Bayads were a prominent clan within the Mongol Empire. Bayads can be found in both Mongolic and Turkic peoples. Within Mongols, the clan is spread through Khalkha, Inner Mongolians, Buryats and Oirats.\n\nThe Bayid are originated from Bayaud (Bayagud) tribes called Jida Bayagud (Bayaud of Jida river), Bayaud Duklas, Kheeriin Bayaud, who were inhabitants of eastern valleys of Selenge River. The Bayad Mongols were inhabitants of the , Selenge River valleys and Russian Kyakhtinsky District but they moved to the southwest in the 17th century.\n\nThey played influential roles in the Mongol Empire, later becoming part of the Four Oirat confederation.\n\n\nToday, Bayads are settled in the districts of Khyargas, Malchin, Tes, Züüngovi, Baruunturuun and Naranbulag in the province of Uvs. According to the census taken in 2000, 50,824 Bayads currently live in Mongolia. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "4981317", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4981317", "title": "Braccae", "text": "Braccae\n\nBraccae is the Latin term for \"trousers\", and in this context is today used to refer to a style of trousers, made from wool. According to the Romans, this style of clothing originate from the Gauls.\n\nBraccae were typically made with a drawstring, and tended to reach from just above the knee at the shortest, to the ankles at the longest, with length generally increasing in tribes living further north.\n\nWhen the Romans first encountered the braccae, they thought them to be effeminate (Roman men typically wore tunics, which were one-piece outfits terminating at or above the knee). \n\nThe word originates from the Gaulish \"bhrāg-ikā,\" after going through a process of syncopation it gave rise to \"braca\" 'trouser, pants'.\n\nThe word is cognate with the English \"breeches\". It appears to derive from the Indo-European root *\"bhrg\"- 'break', here apparently used in the sense 'divide', 'separate', as in Scottish Gaelic or in Breton and in Welsh. The Celtic form may have first passed to the Etruscans, who did not distinguish between the \"c\" and \"g\" sounds. Transition through the Etruscans accounts for the Greek being rendered as Latin , Greek () as Latin .\n\n"}
{"id": "55433499", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55433499", "title": "Coronation of the Bulgarian monarch", "text": "Coronation of the Bulgarian monarch\n\nThe Bulgarian Monarchs used the titles: Khan, Prince (Knyaz), Tsar and King.\n\nWhen acceding to the throne in the First and Second Bulgarian Empire the occasion was marked with a coronation. The coronation was conducted by the Bulgarian Orthodox Church. During the Third Bulgarian State accession was marked by a oath on the constitution.\n\nEastern Orthodox Christianity entered Bulgaria during the reign of Prince Boris I. He converted to Orthodoxy in 864. His godfather was Emperor Michael III and Boris accepted the name Michael as his Christian name. His title was changed from the pagan Khan to the Christian Prince.\n\nPrince Simeon I was the first Bulgarian ruler to be crowned in the Orthodox Faith. He was crowned outside the city of Constantinople by Patriarch Nicholas I Mystikos in 913. He assumed the title \"Tsar of the Bulgarians and the Romans\".\n\nThe rulers of the Second Bulgarian Empire were crowned in Tarnovo.\n\n\nThe Bulgarian rulers of the Third Bulgarian Tsardom were not crowned.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53327427", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53327427", "title": "Dambazawa", "text": "Dambazawa\n\nThe Dambazawa (or Danbazawa) are a Fulani clan residing mainly in Kano State, Nigeria. They were among the key promoters, planners and executors of the Fulani Jihad in Kano, which took place between 1804 and 1807 under the leadership of Shehu Usuman dan Fodiyo. The clan was said to be the top financier of the jihad because it was extremely wealthy at the time of the jihad. Other Fulani Clans that participated in the Jihad included: the Jobawa, the Yolawa, the Sullubawa, the Danejawa and others, as well as a contingent of the local Hausa people lead by Malam Usuman bahaushe. Together they formed a formidable force and toppled the 158 year Kutumbawa dynasty led by its last ruler Muhammad Alwali dan Yaji dan Dadi bakutumbe who ruled between 1781 and 1806.\n\nThe origin of the Dambazawa is as unclear as that of the Fulani race itself, but sources within the clan believe it to be of a \"Dayebe\" Fulani group. It was at the time of Sundiata Keita (c. 1217–1255 A.D.) the Fulbe of that era began adopting surnames that conformed to their socioeconomic groups. During that era, the socioeconomic group of a \"Pullo\" could easily be identified by considering his/her surname. It is unclear how this process came to be, but it is true that all Fulbe belong to one of four tribes: The Ururbe (Ba, Diakite), Dialloube (Diallo), Ferrobe (Sow) and Dayebe (Barry, Sangare). The Ba are considered to be a warrior group; the Diallo's geniuses; the Sow's, known to be religious, the guardians of the temple; the Barry were the nobility of the Fulbe.\n\nThe Dambazawa clan believes they migrated from Futa Tooro in what is now Senegal, with their whole clan consisting of their leaders, clerics, peasants and vocation castes \"(leyyi)\" that included; \"Jaawamɓe\" (courtesans/advisers), \"Maabuɓe\"(weavers), \"Wayilɓe Baleeɓe /sayakooɓe\" (blacksmiths/goldsmiths), \"Buurnaaɓe\" (ceramists), \"Sakkeeɓe\" (tanners), \"Lewɓe\" (woodworkers), \"Awluɓe\" (laudators), \"Wambaaɓe\" (guitarists) and \"Maccuɓe\" (slaves). Their sojourn eastward, took them through the Republics of Mali, Niger, Chad and Cameroun. Their migratory drift was characterized by settling in an area for months or years before moving on. They would raise their cattle, transact business, gain and disseminate Islamic knowledge in the areas they settled or passed through. For over two centuries they kept roaming until they arrived at the Kanem Empire in (Borno-Nigeria) and settled there. By the early 16th century, they left Borno and settled for a while in Damban in present-day Bauchi, Nigeria). From Damban they moved to Gasakoli (a place in Jigawa, Nigeria), then to an area in what was then the eastern part of the Kano Kingdom—known today as Dambazau in Takai. They remained in that area for a while. From there, they continued their westward movement, avoiding Kano city and settling in an area north of the Kano city wall. Today this area is also known as Dambazau. After Kano city fell to the Fulani forces in 1806, their nobility, clerics and most of their \"Jaawando\" and \"Maccube\" moved into the walled city. There they occupied the House of Sarkin Bai, a compound north of the city, behind the city market called Jakara. Today that compound is also called Dambazau within the city wall. After the clan settled permanently in Kano, some of its members moved out to other areas. Wherever they settled they tended to name that area Dambazau.\n\nThe Dambazawa have a tradition of leaving behind some of their clan members and herds, whenever they decided to leave an area they have settled. Most of the time that area is named Dambazau meaning: \"The abode of the Dambazawa\". The Dambazawa believed that wherever they lived, in Nigeria or beyond, the area is called Dambazau. Today in Nigeria alone there are Dambazau villages in Kano, Katsina, Sokoto, Bauchi, Gombe and Muri (Taraba) states.\n\nKano has always been the most populous and wealthiest of the Hausa Kingdoms, and its capital was almost certainly the greatest city in the Sudan at the end of the 18th century. Kano's weather is well suited for cattle rearing. Kano had already been settled by a number of Fulani clans, which had already established themselves centuries before the Jihad. According to the \"Kano Chronicle\", the first wave of Fulani people arrived in Kano during the reign of the 19th ruler of Kano, Sarki Yakubu Dan Abdullahi Bar-ja who ruled between 1452 and 1463. Kano Fulani settlements were scattered throughout the Kingdom of Kano in such a way that they formed a ring round the walled capital city. The settlement of the Dambazawa was situated north of the city wall and their leader at the end of the 18th century was Modibbo Muhammadu (Dabo) Yunusa \"bii\" Ummaru popularly called Dabon Dambazau.\n\nThe Fulani of Kano had already been in contact with Shehu (Usman dan Fodiyo) long before his breach with the Gobir King Yunfa (reign: 1802-1808), The leader of the Dambazawa alongside two other prominent Fulani clan members, Modibbo Sulemanu \"bii\" Abuhama of the Mundubawa clan, and Modibbo Muhammadu Ummaru popularly called Mallam Bakatsine of the Jobawa clan, were already studying under Shehu and were with him at the time of his flight to Gudu, after which, he sent them back to Kano with the task of rallying the faithful. The first thing Malam Dabo did after his return from Gudu was to rally his Dambazawa clan, and then proceeded, together with other Fulani clan leaders, to rally the Kano, Fulani and Hausa faithful.\n\nThe Dambazawa participated fully in all the major battles of the Jihad in Kano from its beginnings in 1804 to its end in 1807, contributing in every way, especially in terms of military logistics and intelligence. The entire Jihad force camped in the northern part of the Kingdom of Kano (i.e. Tomas—an area with a water pond presently in Danbatta district) for almost a year before the final assault was made on the walled capital city of Kano in 1806. This part of the kingdom (Danbatta) happens to be an area the Dambazawa were very conversant with because their settlement Dambazau was located there.\n\nThe Dambazawa were said to be a very united Fulani clan and were extremely devoted to their leader Malam Dabo. They followed, obeyed and protect him anywhere, anytime. After the jihad was successful, the Fulani consolidated their power by defeating the remnants of the Kano forces under the leadership of the ousted king (King Alwali) in the walled town of Burumburum in 1807. For almost three years (1806–1808/9) Kano was without central leadership (an Emir). It was administered collegially by the leaders of the Kano Jihad; Malam Jibir of the Yolawa Clan, Malam Bakatsine of the Jobawa clan, Malam Jamo of the Sullubawa Clan, Malam Usman Bahaushe of the Hausa faithful and Malam Dabo of the Dambazawa Clan. By late 1808 or early 1809, the Kano Fulani decided to visit Shehu Usman and raised the issue of leadership in Kano. They were to meet with Shehu at Birnin Gada in Zamfara, but Shehu was unable to make the journey and was represented by his son Sheik Muhammadu Bello (who later became sultan after the death of Shehu in 1817) who appointed Modibbo Sulemanu of the Mundubawa clan as the Amir of Kano. Though Sulemanu belonged to the Mundubawa Clan, and was said to be with Shehu at the time of his flight to Gudu, he did not make the Hijra to Kwazazzabon ´yar-kwando (also called Fagoje: a place west of Kano city, where the Fulani made camp before starting the jihad in Kano). Nor did he participate in the Kano Jihad struggles. He lived for the whole time within Kano city as an Imam. His appointment did not go down well with the Kano Jihadists. After their return from Birnin Gada, things were calm for a while, but the style of Amir Sulemanu's leadership of Kano did not sit well with most of the prominent Fulani clan leaders, who saw his actions/omissions as undermining the successes achieved by the Jihadists in Kano. They opposed many of his policies and Malam Dabo became the embodiment of that opposition.\n\nMalam Dabo later asked the hand in marriage of Shehu's daughter and it was given. This deepened the already complicated relationship between the Dambazawa and Emir Sulemanu. Sulemanu saw this as an affront to his authority by Dabo, as he was also said to be married to another of Shehu's daughters. At the height of this conflict, Sulemanu imprisoned Malam Dabo in the royal prison, but the Dambazawa went to the prison by nightfall and freed him. Again Emir Sulemanu, acting upon the advice of former Kano rulers' (Alwali) advisers, started disseminating propaganda that Malam Dabo would be killed on a certain date. But that date came and passed with nothing happening to Malam Dabo. The another day would be announced. This series of pronouncements terrified most of the Dambazawa, but Dabo was unperturbed and kept calming them saying \"nothing would happen\". But their fear kept increasing by the day, so they continued to urge him to leave for Sokoto (to Shehu). They later prevailed over him and Dabo left Kano for Sokoto. Upon hearing that Dabo left for Sokoto, Emir Sulemanu rode after him to Sokoto, fearing what Dabo might tell Shehu. After they both arrived before Shehu, he reconciled and made peace between them, and they returned to Kano. This happened between 1810-1811 A.D. From that day, Dabo and the Dambazawa removed themselves from the activities of the Emirate, but Dabo retained his seat at the council of Ulama (Clerics) which consisted of all clan the leaders.\n\nShehu Usman retired from administering the caliphate in 1815 and handed over the administration to his brother Abdullahi Fodiyo and son Muhammadu Bello. He later died in 1817 A.D. and upon his death Muhammadu Bello succeeded him as the commander of the faithful (Sultan). Emir Sulemanu died in 1819, but not before he wrote a letter to Sultan Muhammadu Bello requesting the appointment of Modibbo Ibrahim Dabo from the Sullubawa clan as Emir in the event of his death. In his letter, he accused Malam Dabon Dambazau of haughtiness and Malam Dikko (of the Jobawa clan) of oppressive tendencies and urged Sultan Bello not to appoint either of them in the event of his death. He recommended the appointment of Malam Ibrahim Dabo of the Sullubawa, who happened to be his student at one time. Their parents, Modibbo Abuhama and Modibbo Mahmudu (known as Malam mai dan gwado) were very close friends.\n\nBy the time Emir Sulemanu died in 1819, the Dambazawa had already established themselves as a force to be reckon with. They were gunning for their leader to be appointed the next Amir of Kano and had the backing of not only the majority of the Fulani clans but also the Hausa peasants. But as fate would have it, when the Emir's seat became vacant the name of Dabon Dambazau was forwarded to the Sultan, Muhammed Bello, but he had already made up his mind to grant the wish of the late Emir Sulemanu by appointing Malam Ibrahim Dabo of the Sullubawa clan as his successor. The sultan overlooked Malam Dabo and said that Malam Dabo should be \"Sarkin Baya\". To date, no one knows precisely what the sultan meant by this because the phrase has different meanings in the Hausa language. This was the reason Malam Dabo's supporters and admirers were calling him \"Sarkin Baya\" or \"Sarkin bai\" (as both \"baya\" and \"bai\" roughly have the same meaning in the Hausa language) which roughly translates as; \"The Emir to come after\" (i.e. after Ibrahim Dabo). Although his adversaries, and those who loathed him, also called him \"Sarkin bai\", but they called him that as a mockery, as it can also mean; \"The Emir who came last\" (i.e. who lost being selected to be crowned as emir) or \"The King of slaves\" (as \"Bai\" can also mean \"slave\" in classical Hausa language).\n\nWhen Malam Ibrahim Dabo ascended the emirship of Kano, he decided not to have any conflict with the Dambazawa. He adopted a different approach from that of Emir Sulemanu. He officially appointed Dabo to the office of Sarkin bai, and placed him in charge of all the territories ranging from between Ungogo north of Kano city to Kunchi near the northwestern boundaries of the Kano Emirate with the Katsina and Daura Emirates and Babura near the northeastern boundary of Kano with Damagaran (now Zinder in the Niger Republic) as their fiefdom. He restored Danbatta and Kunya, which Emir Sulemanu had seized from him during their disagreement, to him. To formalise the new situation with the Dambazawa, he appointed his daughter Fatsumatu Zara (daughter of his senior wife Shekara) to the title of \"Magajiya\" ( the first Fulani Magajiya in Kano). He then gave Fatsumatu to Dabo as a bride, together with Kunchi as a marriage gift, thus publicly demonstrating his reconciliation with the Dambazawa. \n\nThe fiefdom of the Dambazawa happens to include Danbatta town, which at that time was the headquarters of a rebelious Fulani clan leader named Ibrahim Dan Tunku of the Yarimawa Fulani clan of Shiddar. Dan Tunku began rebelling against the Emirate of Kano during the reign of Emir Sulemanu. Conquering and harassing villages in northern Kano, he carved out a sizable Kingdom for himself at the expanse of the Kano Emirate. The Dambazawa were the vanguard that fought Dan Tunku and kept him at bay. The forces of Kano were busy fighting revolts that broke out in other areas of the Kano Emirate after the appointment of Ibrahim Dabo as Emir. After they were subdued the Kano forces, lead by Emir Ibrahim Dabo himself, joined the Dambazawa forces and then proceeded to plan and executed a final assault on Dan Tunku at Danbatta town, where they defeated him. But, Dan Tunku was able to escape through the northern gate of Danbatta Town. Kano forces pursued him until they reached a pond that separated Danbatta and the plains of Kazaure. The Emir dismounted from his horse and ordered a camp to be set up. A local legend has it that while the Emir was napping in his tent, he dreamed of Shehu Usman, and in that dream Shehu told him that \"this pond is the border between you and Dan Tunku\". When the Emir awoke, he asked his forces to withdraw to Danbatta, whereupon Dantunku's house was razed to the ground. The Emir then left for Kano and the Dambazawa left some of their clan members to bring the town to order. They built a house beside the destroyed house of Dan Tunku and appointed Dantunku's brother (who had earlier surrendered) as \"Sarkin Fulanin Danbatta\". Dambazawa then made Danbatta the capital of their larger fiefdom and their military base against Dan Tunku. It was Kano's northern fortress where they governed and defended Kano from all northern aggression. To date, the Dambazawa are those controlling Danbatta and its environs, though they no longer control the whole of the northern Kano emirate. They still operate as the fief owners of Danbatta and Makoda. Modibbo Muhammadu Yunusa Ummaru Ba-dambaje died in 1845 and was buried under a date palm tree at his house at Dambazau, inside the walled city of Kano. He died one to three months earlier than Emir Ibrahim Dabo (Ibrahim Dabo died in 1846) and did not live to become the Emir of Kano. After his death, his son Muhammadu Kwairanga was appointed \"Sarkin Bai\" of Kano and continued operating as the fief owner of Northern Kano.\n\nMuhammadu Kwairanga, after becoming the Sarkin bai of Kano and leader of the Dambazawa clan, decided to choose ten people from the Dambazawa to help him administer the fiefdom. He gave them titles and offices and called them \"Yan goma\" (the ten councilors). The titles include: Waziri, Galadima, Madaki, Makama, Wanbai, Ciroma, Tafida, Muqaddas, Dawaki and Santali.\n\nToday, the Dambazawa are those controlling the districts of Danbatta and Makoda. Their leader, who always holds the title of \"Sarkin Bai\", is a permanent member of the Kano State Emirate Council and the secretary of the Kano King Makers Council (i.e. Kano Emirate Electoral College) which consist of Madakin Kano from the \"Ba'awa\" (Yolawa) clan as chairman of the Council, Sarkin Ban Kano from the Dambazawa clan as secretary, Makaman Kano from the Jobawa clan and Sarkin Dawaki mai Tutar Kano from the main body of the Sullubawa clan (who were the descendants of Malam Jamo the leader of the Sullubawa during the Jihad and the custodian of the Kano Jihad flag) as members. This council is responsible for choosing a new Emir whenever the seat becomes vacant. They forward his name to the Kano State Executive Council for subsequent approval.\n\n\"Sarkin Bai\" is a title in Kano Emirate that is reserved exclusively for the leader of the Dambazawa Fulani Clan. Whoever is chosen as Sarkin Ban Kano automatically becomes the leader of the Danbazawa clan, the Secretary of the Kano King makers Council and District head of Danbatta local Government.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5105637", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5105637", "title": "Dawa (Tibetan phrase)", "text": "Dawa (Tibetan phrase)\n\nIn Tibetan culture and Sherpa culture, Dawa (; also written ) is a word meaning \"moon\" or \"month\". It is often used as a name for children born on a Monday. The name can be given to either a girl or a boy. Other people in the Himalayan region such as the Ladakhis, the Sikkimese of Northeast India and the Bhutanese people also use the name Dawa in the same sense as the Tibetans.\n"}
{"id": "2560072", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2560072", "title": "Environmental mitigation", "text": "Environmental mitigation\n\nEnvironmental mitigation, compensatory mitigation, or mitigation banking, are terms used primarily by the United States government and the related environmental industry to describe projects or programs intended to offset known impacts to an existing historic or natural resource such as a stream, wetland, endangered species, archeological site, paleontological site or historic structure. To \"mitigate\" means to make less harsh or hostile. Environmental mitigation is typically a part of an environmental crediting system established by governing bodies which involves allocating debits and credits. Debits occur in situations where a natural resource has been destroyed or severely impaired and credits are given in situations where a natural resource has been deemed to be improved or preserved. Therefore, when an entity such as a business or individual has a \"debit\" they are required to purchase a \"credit\". In some cases credits are bought from \"mitigation banks\" which are large mitigation projects established to provide credit to multiple parties in advance of development when such compensation cannot be achieved at the development site or is not seen as beneficial to the environment. Crediting systems can allow credit to be generated in different ways. For example, in the United States, projects are valued based on what the intentions of the project are which may be to preserve, enhance, restore or create (PERC) a natural resource.\n\nEnvironmental mitigation and crediting systems are often praised for the following reasons:\n\nMitigation is a more development-friendly alternative to strict environmental laws because it allows development to occur where environmental laws might prohibit it.\n\nMitigation inevitably creates a \"mitigation industry\". By requiring those who impact natural resources to purchase credits, a demand for mitigation credit is formed. Businesses related to environmental work typically benefit from such a system.\n\nMitigation has the potential to save and restore the most valuable environmental resources at the least cost, assuming that regulation 1) protects health and welfare as defined by the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) and 2) assures that a credit accurately represents measurable ecological value. Buyers are typically looking for mitigation credits that are both cheap and the most likely to meet regulatory requirements for compensatory mitigation. Regulators must therefore find a balance between protecting the long term public interest and ensuring that buyers have the proper incentives to participate in the environmental marketplace.\n\nMitigation systems place the environmental costs of development mostly on the individuals or entities that are impacting the environment. Without environmental mitigation, costs of alleviating environmental damage caused by development could be placed in the hands of the government which would in turn pass costs on to taxpayers not responsible for environmental impacts.\n\nLand previously unused or impractical for development is given greater monetary value under a mitigation system. For instance, land in floodplains may be impractical for commercial or residential development but conducive for mitigation activities. Land in rural areas with very little potential for growth are more valuable when given the opportunity to be used for mitigation credits.\n\nThe following are criticisms of environmental mitigation and crediting systems:\n\nMitigation regulations may not properly take into account the total ecological losses and gains associated with environmental impacts or mitigation when allocating debits and credits. Governing bodies are primarily responsible for prescribing the ecological criteria required to attain credits for mitigation. They are also responsible for valuation of credit. Therefore, it is evident that problems with the allocation and valuation of credits and debits might stem from the complexity of assessing the current comparative value of ecological resources (aka ecosystem services), ecosystem change over time, and/or a lack of understanding about what is beneficial or harmful to the environment overall. To address these uncertainties regulators often assign 'coverage ratios' to compensatory mitigation agreements. Coverage ratios of, for example, 3:1 require 3 compensatory mitigation credits for every 1 unit of ecological disturbance.\n\nMitigation could be seen as contributing to the increasing cost of land because some mitigation work requires that large amounts of land be purchased or put into conservation easements. Mitigation can therefore compete with other rural land uses such as agriculture and residential development. This suggests that land owners must be alert to find the highest and best use for their properties given the potential market value that mitigation credits represent.\n\nCommitment of lands to compensatory mitigation must be done 'in perpetuity', meaning permanently into the future. Otherwise, the long-term public interest could not be served via compensatory mitigation programs. This means that properties must continue to be managed with ecosystem values in mind, sometimes preventing landowners from transforming the landscape to meet changing needs. For example, future large scale development projects would not likely be permitted on previously dedicated mitigation properties.\n\n"}
{"id": "378561", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=378561", "title": "Eric Harris and Dylan Klebold", "text": "Eric Harris and Dylan Klebold\n\nEric David Harris (April 9, 1981 – April 20, 1999) and Dylan Bennet Klebold (; September 11, 1981 – April 20, 1999) were two American mass murderers who killed 13 people and wounded 24 others armed with firearms, explosives and knives on April 20, 1999, at Columbine High School in Columbine, Colorado. They were twelfth grade (senior) students at the high school. The shooting rampage came to be known as the Columbine High School massacre. Harris and Klebold committed suicide in the library, where they had killed 10 of their victims.\n\nHarris was born in Wichita, Kansas. The Harris family relocated often, as Eric's father, Wayne Harris, was a U.S. Air Force transport pilot. His mother, Katherine Ann Poole, was a homemaker. The family moved from Plattsburgh, New York, to Littleton, Colorado, in July 1993, when Wayne Harris retired from military service.\n\nThe Harris family lived in rented accommodations for the first three years that they lived in the Littleton area. During this time, Eric met Dylan Klebold. In 1996, the Harris family purchased a house south of Columbine High School. Eric's older brother attended college at the University of Colorado Boulder.\n\nKlebold was born in Lakewood, Colorado, to Thomas and Susan Klebold. His parents were pacifists and attended a Lutheran church with their children. Both Dylan and his older brother attended confirmation classes in accordance with the Lutheran tradition. As had been the case with his older brother, Dylan was named after a renowned poet – in Dylan's case, the playwright Dylan Thomas.\n\nAt the family home, the Klebolds also observed some rituals in keeping with Klebold's maternal grandfather's Jewish heritage. Klebold attended Normandy Elementary in Littleton, Colorado for the first two grades before transferring to Governor's Ranch Elementary and became part of the CHIPS (\"Challenging High Intellectual Potential Students\") program. He found the transition to Ken Caryl Middle School difficult.\n\nAt Columbine High, Harris and Klebold were active in school play productions, operated video productions and became computer assistants maintaining the school's computer server.\n\nAccording to early accounts of the shooting, Harris and Klebold were very unpopular students and targets of bullying. While sources do support accounts of bullying directed toward the pair, accounts of them being outcasts have been reported to be false.\n\nHarris and Klebold were initially reported to be members of a group that called themselves the \"Trenchcoat Mafia\", although in fact they had no particular connection with the group, and did not appear in a group photo of the Trenchcoat Mafia in the 1998 Columbine yearbook. Harris's father stated that his son was \"a member of what they call the Trenchcoat Mafia\" in a 911 call he made on April 20, 1999. Klebold attended the high school prom three days before the shootings with a classmate named Robyn Anderson.\n\nHarris and Klebold linked their personal computers on a network and both played many games over the Internet. Harris created a set of levels for the game \"Doom\", which later became known as the 'Harris levels'. Harris had a web presence under the handle \"REB\" (short for Rebel, a nod to the nickname of Columbine's sports teams) and other cyber aliases, including \"Rebldomakr\", \"Rebdoomer\", and \"Rebdomine\", while Klebold went by the names \"VoDKa\" and \"VoDkA\". Harris had various websites that hosted \"Doom\" and \"Quake\" files, as well as team information for those he gamed with online. The sites openly espoused hatred for the people of their neighborhood and the world in general. When the pair began experimenting with pipe bombs, they posted results of the explosions on the websites. The website was shut down by America Online after the shootings and was preserved for the FBI.\n\nThe two boys got into trouble with the law for breaking into a locked van and stealing computers. In January 1998, they were charged with mischief, breaking and entering, trespassing, and theft. They both left good impressions on the juvenile officers, who offered to expunge their criminal records if they agreed to attend a diversionary program to include community service, received psychiatric treatment, and obeyed the law. Harris was required to attend anger management classes where, again, he made a favorable impression. They were so well-behaved that their probation officer discharged them from the program a few months earlier than the due date. Of Harris, it was remarked that he was \"a very bright individual who is likely to succeed in life\", while Klebold was said to be intelligent, but \"needs to understand that hard work is part of fulfilling a dream.\" On April 30, Harris handed over the first version of a letter of apology he wrote to the owner of the van, which he completed the next month. In the letter, Harris expressed regret about his actions; however, in one of his journal entries dated April 12, he wrote: \"Isnt america supposed to be the land of the free? how come, If im free, I cant deprive some fucking dumbshit from his possessions If he leaves them sitting in the front seat of his fucking van in plain sight in the middle of fucking nowhere on a fri-fucking-day night? Natural selection. Fucker should be shot. \".\n\nIn December 1998, Harris and Klebold made \"Hitmen for Hire\", a video for a school project in which they swore, yelled at the camera, made violent statements, and acted out shooting and killing students in the hallway of their school as \"Hitmen for Hire\". They both displayed themes of violence in their creative writing projects for school; of a \"Doom\"-based story written by Harris on January 17, 1999, Harris's teacher said: \"Yours is a unique approach and your writing works in a gruesome way — good details and mood setting.\"\n\nOn April 20, 1999, while smoking a cigarette at the start of lunch break, Brooks Brown saw Harris arrive at school. Brown had severed his friendship with Harris a year earlier because Harris had thrown a chunk of ice at his car windshield; Brown patched things up with Harris just prior to the shooting. Brown scolded Harris for skipping his morning classes, because Harris was always serious about schoolwork and being on time. Harris reportedly said, \"It doesn't matter anymore\" and also said, \"Brooks, I like you now. Get out of here. Go home.\" Brown quickly left the school grounds. At 11:19 a.m., he heard the first gunshots after he had walked some distance away from the school, and he informed the police via a neighbor's cell phone.\n\nBy that time, Dylan Klebold had already arrived at the school in a separate car, and the two boys left two gym bags, each containing a 20-pound propane bomb, inside the school cafeteria. When these devices failed to detonate, Harris and Klebold launched a shooting attack against their classmates. It was the deadliest attack ever perpetrated at an American high school until the Stoneman Douglas High School shooting on February 14, 2018. Harris was responsible for eight of the thirteen confirmed deaths (Rachel Scott, Daniel Rohrbough, a teacher identified as Dave Sanders, Steve Curnow, Cassie Bernall, Isaiah Shoels, Kelly Fleming, and Daniel Mauser), while Klebold was responsible for the remaining five (Kyle Velasquez, Matthew Kechter, Lauren Townsend, John Tomlin, and Corey DePooter). There were 24 wounded, most in critical condition.\n\nAt 12:02 p.m., Harris and Klebold returned to the library. This was 20 minutes after their lethal shooting spree had ended, leaving 12 students dead, one teacher dying, and another 24 students and staff injured. Ten of their victims had been killed in the library. Harris and Klebold went to the west windows and opened fire on the police outside. Six minutes later, they walked to the bookshelves near a table where Patrick Ireland lay badly wounded and unconscious. Student Lisa Kreutz, injured in the earlier library attack, was also in the room, unable to move.\n\nAt 12:08 p.m., art teacher Patti Nielson, who had locked herself inside a break room with student Brian Anderson and library staff, overheard Harris and Klebold shout out in unison: \"One! Two! Three!\" followed immediately by the sound of gunfire. Harris had fired his shotgun through the roof of his mouth, and Klebold had shot himself in the left temple with his TEC-9 semi-automatic handgun.\n\nBecause Harris and Klebold were both underage at the time, Robyn Anderson (with whom Klebold attended the prom three days before the shooting), an 18-year-old Columbine student and old friend of Klebold's, made a straw purchase of two shotguns and a Hi-Point carbine for the pair. In exchange for her cooperation with the investigation that followed the shootings, no charges were filed against Anderson. After illegally acquiring the weapons, Klebold sawed off his Savage 311-D 12-gauge double-barrel shotgun, shortening the overall length to approximately , a felony under the National Firearms Act, while Harris's Savage-Springfield 12-gauge pump shotgun was sawed off to around .\n\nThe shooters also possessed a TEC-DC9 semi-automatic handgun, which had a long history. The manufacturer of the TEC-DC9 first sold it to Miami-based Navegar Incorporated. It was then sold to Zander's Sporting Goods in Baldwin, Illinois in 1994. The gun was later sold to Thornton, Colorado, firearms dealer Larry Russell. In violation of federal law, Russell failed to keep records of the sale, yet he determined that the purchaser of the gun was twenty-one years of age or older. He was unable to identify the pictures of Klebold, Anderson, or Harris shown to him by police after the shooting. Two men, Mark Manes and Philip Duran, were convicted of supplying weapons to the two.\n\nThe bombs used by the pair varied and were crudely made from carbon dioxide canisters, galvanized pipe, and metal propane bottles. The bombs were primed with matches placed at one end. Both had striker tips on their sleeves. When they rubbed against the bomb, the match head would light the fuse. The weekend before the shootings, Harris and Klebold had purchased propane tanks and other supplies from a hardware store for a few hundred dollars. Several residents of the area claimed to have heard glass breaking and buzzing sounds from the Harris family's garage, which later was concluded to indicate they were constructing pipe bombs. The two boys purchased six more propane tanks on the morning of the attack.\n\nMore complex bombs, such as the one that detonated on the corner of South Wadsworth Boulevard and Ken Caryl Avenue, had timers. The two largest bombs built were found in the school cafeteria and were made from small propane tanks. Only one of these bombs went off, only partially detonating. It was estimated that if any of the bombs placed in the cafeteria had detonated properly, the blast could have caused extensive structural damage to the school and would have resulted in hundreds of casualties.\n\nThere was controversy over whether the perpetrators should be memorialized. Some were opposed, saying that it glorified murderers, while others argued that the perpetrators were also victims. Atop a hill near Columbine High School, crosses were erected for Harris and Klebold along with those for the people they killed, but the father of Daniel Rohrbough cut them down, saying that murderers should not be memorialized in the same place as victims.\n\nHarris and Klebold wrote much about how they would carry out the massacre, but less about why. A journal found in Harris's bedroom contained almost every detail that the boys planned to follow after 5:00 a.m. on April 20, 1999. In journal entries, the pair often wrote about events such as the Oklahoma City bombing, the Waco siege, the Vietnam War and other similar events, including blurbs and notes on how they wished to \"outdo\" these events, focusing especially on what Timothy McVeigh did in Oklahoma City. They mentioned how they would like to leave a lasting impression on the world with this kind of violence.\n\nMuch speculation occurred over the date chosen for their attack. The original intended date of the attack may have been April 19; Harris required more ammunition from Mark Manes, who did not deliver it until the evening of April 19.\n\nHarris and Klebold were both avid fans of KMFDM, an industrial band led by German multi-instrumentalist Sascha Konietzko. It was revealed that lyrics to KMFDM songs (\"Son of a Gun\", \"Stray Bullet\", \"Waste\") were posted on Harris' website, and that the date of the massacre, April 20, coincided with both the release date of the album \"Adios\" and the birthday of Adolf Hitler. Harris noted the coincidence of the album's title and release date in his journal.\n\nThe media was quick to jump on the apparent connection of the massacre to violent entertainment and Nazism. In response, Konietzko issued a statement:\n\nFirst and foremost, KMFDM would like to express their deep and heartfelt sympathy for the parents, families and friends of the murdered and injured children in Littleton. We are sick and appalled, as is the rest of the nation, by what took place in Colorado yesterday.\n\nKMFDM are an art form—not a political party. From the beginning, our music has been a statement against war, oppression, fascism and violence against others. While some of the former band members are German as reported in the media, none of us condone any Nazi beliefs whatsoever.\n\nThe attack occurred on Hitler's birthday, which led to speculation in the media. Some people, such as Robyn Anderson, who knew the perpetrators, stated that the pair were not obsessed with Nazism nor did they worship or admire Hitler in any way. Anderson stated, in retrospect, that there were many things the pair did not tell friends. Dave Cullen, author of the 2009 book \"Columbine\", cites evidence that Harris did revere the Nazis. He praised them often in his journal, and some of his friends grew irritated at his frequent Nazi salutes and quotations in the months leading up to the shooting. At a certain point, Harris realized he needed to reduce this behavior, for fear of revealing his plans. He commented in his journal about how hard it was to wait until April to express all his hatred for the human race. In his journal, Harris mentioned his admiration of what he imagined to be natural selection, and wrote that he would like to put everyone in a super \"Doom\" game and see to it that the weak die and the strong live. On the day of the massacre, Harris wore a white T-shirt with the words \"Natural selection\" printed in black.\n\nOne of Harris' last journal entries read: \"I hate you people for leaving me out of so many fun things. And no don't … say, 'Well that's your fault,' because it isn't, you people had my phone number, and I asked and all, but no. No no no don't let the weird-looking Eric KID come along.\"\n\nDylan Klebold said on the Basement Tapes, \"You've been giving us shit for years. You're fucking gonna pay for all the shit! We don't give a shit. Because we're gonna die doing it.\"\n\nAccounts from various parents and school staffers describe bullying at the school as \"rampant.\" Nathan Vanderau, a friend of Klebold, and Alisa Owen, Harris's eighth-grade science partner, reported that Harris and Klebold were constantly picked on. Vanderau noted that a \"cup of fecal matter\" was thrown at them. \"People surrounded them in the commons and squirted ketchup packets all over them, laughing at them, calling them faggots,\" Brooks Brown says. \"That happened while teachers watched. They couldn't fight back. They wore the ketchup all day and went home covered with it.\" In his book, \"No Easy Answers: The Truth Behind Death at Columbine\", Brown wrote that Harris was born with mild chest indent. This made him reluctant to take his shirt off in gym class, and other students would laugh at him.\n\n\"A lot of the tension in the school came from the class above us,\" Chad Laughlin states. \"There were people fearful of walking by a table where you knew you didn't belong, stuff like that. Certain groups certainly got preferential treatment across the board. I caught the tail end of one really horrible incident, and I know Dylan told his mother that it was the worst day of his life.\" That incident, according to Laughlin, involved seniors pelting Klebold with \"ketchup-covered tampons\" in the commons.\n\nHarris began keeping a journal in April 1998, a short time after the pair was convicted of breaking into a van, for which each received ten months of juvenile intervention counseling and community service in January 1998. They began to formulate plans then, as reflected in their journals.\n\nHarris wanted to join the United States Marine Corps, but his application was rejected shortly before the shootings because he was taking the drug fluvoxamine, an SSRI antidepressant, which he was required to take as part of court-ordered anger management therapy. According to the recruiting officer, Harris did not know about this rejection. Though some friends of Harris suggested that he had stopped taking the drug beforehand, the autopsy reports showed low therapeutic or normal (not toxic or lethal) blood-levels of Luvox (fluvoxamine) in his system, which would be around 0.0031-0.0087 mg%, at the time of death. After the shootings, opponents of contemporary psychiatry like Peter Breggin claimed that the psychiatric medications prescribed to Harris after his conviction may have exacerbated his aggressiveness.\n\nIn April 2009, Professor Aubrey Immelman, Ph.D of the College of Saint Benedict and Saint John's University, published a personality profile of Eric Harris, based on journal entries and personal communication. Immelman's profile believes the materials suggested behavior patterns consistent with a \"malignant narcissism ... pathological narcissistic personality disorder with borderline and antisocial features, along with some paranoid traits, and unconstrained aggression\". The report notes that such a profile should not be construed as a direct psychiatric diagnosis, which is based on face-to-face interviews, formal psychological testing, and collection of collateral information.\n\nIn his journal, Klebold wrote about his view that he and Harris were \"god-like\" and more highly evolved than every other human being, but his secret journal records self-loathing and suicidal intentions. Page after page was covered in hearts, as he was secretly in love with a Columbine student. Although both had difficulty controlling their anger, Klebold's anger had led to his being more prone to serious trouble than Harris. Klebold was known to swear at teachers and fight with his boss at Blackjack Pizza. After their arrest, which both recorded as the most traumatic thing they had ever experienced, Klebold wrote a letter to Harris, saying how they would have so much fun getting revenge and killing cops, and how his wrath from the January arrest would be \"god-like\". On the day of the massacre, Klebold wore a black T-shirt which had the word \"WRATH\" printed in red. It was speculated that revenge for the arrest was a possible motive for the attack, and that the pair planned on having a massive gun battle with police during the shooting. Klebold wrote that life was no fun without a little death, and that he would like to spend the last moments of his life in nerve-wracking twists of murder and bloodshed. He concluded by saying that he would kill himself afterward in order to leave the world that he hated and go to a better place. Klebold was described as being \"hotheaded, but depressive and suicidal.\"\n\nSome of the home recorded videos, called \"The Basement Tapes\", have reportedly been destroyed by police. Harris and Klebold reportedly discussed their motives for the attacks in these videos and gave instructions in bomb making. Police cite the reason for withholding these tapes as an effort to prevent them from becoming \"call-to-arms\" and \"how-to\" videos that could inspire copycat killers. Some people have argued that releasing the tapes would allow psychologists to study them and would help identify characteristics of future killers.\n\nInitially, the shooters were believed to be members of a clique that called themselves the \"Trench Coat Mafia\", a small group of Columbine's self-styled outcasts who wore heavy black trench coats. Early reports described the members as also wearing German slogans and swastikas on their clothes. Additional media reports described the Trench Coat Mafia as a cult with ties to the Neo-Nazi movement which fueled a media stigma and bias against the Trench Coat Mafia. The Trench Coat Mafia was a group of friends who hung out together, wore black trench coats, and prided themselves on being different from the 'jocks' who had been bullying the members and who also coined the name Trench Coat Mafia. The trench coat inadvertently became the members' uniform after a mother of one of the members bought it as an inexpensive present.\n\nInvestigation revealed that Harris and Klebold were only friends with one member of the group, Kristin Thiebault, and that most of the primary members of the Trench Coat Mafia had left the school by the time that Harris and Klebold committed the massacre. Most did not know the shooters, apart from their association with Thiebault, and none were considered suspects in the shootings or were charged with any involvement in the incident.\n\nMarilyn Manson was blamed by the media in the wake of the Columbine shooting, and responded to criticism in an interview with Michael Moore, in which he was asked, \"If you were to talk directly to the kids at Columbine and the people in the community, what would you say to them if they were here right now?\", to which he replied, \"I wouldn't say a single word to them—I would listen to what they have to say, and that's what no one did.\"\n\nOne report suggested that Harris was a psychopath and Klebold was severely depressed, and consequently that Harris was influenced by sadism, whereas Klebold was influenced by revenge. This report suggested that all of the reasons the boys gave for the shooting were justifications in order to present themselves as killers with a cause.\n\nAlthough early media reports attributed the shootings to a desire for revenge on the part of Harris and Klebold for bullying that they received, subsequent psychological analysis indicated Harris and Klebold harbored serious psychological problems. According to Supervisory Special Agent Dwayne Fuselier, the FBI's lead Columbine investigator and a clinical psychologist, Harris exhibited a pattern of grandiosity, contempt, and lack of empathy or remorse, distinctive traits of psychopaths that Harris concealed through deception. Fuselier adds that Harris engaged in mendacity not merely to protect himself, as Harris rationalized in his journal, but also for pleasure, as seen when Harris expressed his thoughts in his journal regarding how he and Klebold avoided prosecution for breaking into a van. Other leading psychiatrists concur that Harris was a psychopath.\n\nSue Klebold, mother of Dylan Klebold, spoke about the Columbine High School massacre publicly for the first time in an essay that appeared in the October 2009 issue of \"\". In the piece, Klebold wrote: \"For the rest of my life, I will be haunted by the horror and anguish Dylan caused\", and \"Dylan changed everything I believed about myself, about God, about family, and about love.\" Stating that she had no clue of her son's intentions, she said, \"Once I saw his journals, it was clear to me that Dylan entered the school with the intention of dying there.\" In Andrew Solomon's 2012 book \"Far from the Tree\", she acknowledged that on the day of the massacre, when she discovered that Dylan was one of the shooters, she prayed he would kill himself. \"I had a sudden vision of what he might be doing. And so while every other mother in Littleton was praying that her child was safe, I had to pray that mine would die before he hurt anyone else.\" \n\nIn February 2016, Klebold published a memoir, titled \"A Mother's Reckoning\", about her experiences before and after the massacre. It was co-written by Laura Tucker and included an introduction by National Book Award winner Andrew Solomon. It received very favorable reviews, including from the \"New York Times Book Review\". It peaked at #2 on the \"New York Times\" bestseller list.\n\nOn February 2, 2017, Klebold posted a TED Talk titled, \"My son was a Columbine shooter. This is my story.\" By February 4, it had 286,000 views. The site listed Klebold's occupation as \"activist\", and stated: \"Sue Klebold has become a passionate agent working to advance mental health awareness and intervention.\"\n\nIn April 2001, the families of more than 30 victims were given shares in a $2,538,000 settlement by the families of the perpetrators, Mark Manes, and Phillip Duran. The Harrises and the Klebolds contributed $1,568,000 to the settlement from their own homeowners' policies, the Manes contributed $720,000, and the Durans contributed $250,000. The Harrises and the Klebolds were ordered to guarantee an additional $32,000 be available against any future claims. The Manes were ordered to hold $80,000 against future claims, and the Durans were ordered to hold $50,000. One family had filed a $250-million lawsuit against the Harrises and Klebolds in 1999 and did not accept the 2001 settlement terms. A judge ordered the family to accept a $366,000 settlement in June 2003. In August 2003, the families of five other victims received undisclosed settlements from the Harrises and Klebolds.\n\nIn the 1999 black comedy, \"Duck! The Carbine High Massacre\", which is inspired by the Columbine shooting, the two shooters are played by William Hellfire and Joey Smack, who also co-wrote, directed and produced the film. The shooters are named \"Derrick and Derwin\", a play on Harris' and Klebold's first names.\n\nThe 2002 Michael Moore documentary film \"Bowling for Columbine\" focuses heavily on a perceived American obsession with handguns, its grip on Jefferson County, Colorado, and its role in the shooting.\n\nThe 2003 Gus Van Sant film \"Elephant\" depicts a fictional school shooting, though some of its details were based on the Columbine massacre, such as one scene, in which one of the young killers walks into the evacuated school cafeteria and pauses to sip from someone's glass, as Harris himself did during the shooting. In the film, the killers are called \"Alex and Eric\" after the actors who portray them, Alex Frost and Eric Deulen.\n\nIn the 2003 Ben Coccio film \"Zero Day\", which was inspired by the Columbine shooting, the two shooters are played by Andre Kriegman and Cal Gabriel and called \"Andre and Calvin\" after their actors.\n\nAlso in 2003, the Uwe Boll film \"Heart of America: Home Room\" was released. The film's main plot focuses on two bullied students, Daniel Lynn and Barry Shultz, who plan to carry out a school shooting on the last day of school after being tortured by the school jocks. Barry, the main character, has second thoughts and quits at the last minute, while Daniel carries out the plan with a female accomplice, Dara McDermott. Barry is played by Michael Belyea, Daniel is played by Kett Turton, and Dara is played by Elisabeth Rosen. The film is believed to have been inspired by several shootings that are listed before the credits, Columbine being among them.\n\nIn 2004, the shooting was dramatized in the documentary \"Zero Hour\", in which Harris and Klebold were played by Ben Johnson and Josh Young, respectively.\n\nIn 2007, the massacre was documented in an episode of the National Geographic Channel documentary series, \"The Final Report\".\n\nIn the 2009 film \"April Showers\", which was written and directed by Andrew Robinson, who was a senior at Columbine High School during the shooting, the single shooter, Ben Harris, is played by Benjamin Chrystak.\n\nThe 2016 biographical film \"I'm Not Ashamed\", based on the journals of Rachel Scott, includes glimpses of Eric Harris' and Dylan Klebold's lives and of interactions between them and other students at Columbine High School.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28493167", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28493167", "title": "Glenn Michael Souther", "text": "Glenn Michael Souther\n\nGlenn Michael Souther (January 30, 1957, Hammond, Indiana to June 22, 1989, Moscow, Soviet Union), also known as Mikhail Yevgenyevich Orlov, was a U.S. Navy photographer who gave up U.S. citizenship to become a Soviet citizen in 1986. At first, when he asked for Soviet citizenship, Soviet counter-intelligence was confused, suspecting him of being a CIA-plant, sent on an espionage mission. However, after Soviets found out that there was no secret plot behind his endeavour, they quickly promoted him from NCO up to the Major's rank. He settled down in the USSR, married a Russian woman, who taught English in one of the Moscow universities. Three years after his defection he committed suicide, aged 32.\n\nAfter graduating from high school in 1975 in Cumberland, Maine, Souther enlisted in the United States Navy and was trained as a photographer. He served on the USS Nimitz (CVN-68) from July 1976 to November 1978. From April 1979 to 1982, he was stationed with the United States Sixth Fleet in Italy, where he married an Italian woman. In Italy in 1980, he was recruited as a Soviet spy by experienced KGB officer Boris Aleksandrovich Solomatin, who had earlier recruited and handled John Anthony Walker. According to Solomatin, Souther was an ideological spy and not motivated by money.\n\nIn 1982, Souther was given an honorable discharge from the Navy with a rank of petty officer first class to study Russian literature in Old Dominion University. Simultaneously, he worked as a reservist at the Atlantic fleet intelligence center in Norfolk, where he was assigned to a laboratory processing satellite-reconnaissance photos and also may have been privy to sensitive communications intercepts. In 1981, his estranged wife approached a Navy officer to report that Souther was a spy. These allegations were not taken seriously until John Anthony Walker's arrest in 1985. Thereafter, he was interrogated by the FBI but not charged due to a lack of evidence. Soon afterwards, in May 1986, Souther asked for the Soviet citizenship. \n\nHe did not publicly resurface until July 20, 1988, when a television interview program with a segment about him was broadcast on Soviet Central Television. In the program, he spoke about his own disillusionment with American nuclear policies and his love for the works of Russian poet Vladimir Mayakovsky. He also discussed and criticized several American intelligence operations in which he took part, including the 1986 bombing of Libya and the analysis of the Chernobyl disaster. While in the Soviet Union, he married a Russian woman named Lena and had a daughter. He was awarded an Order of Friendship of Peoples and was one of the few foreign agents and defectors given officer rank in the KGB, where he was made a major after his defection.\n\nOn June 22, 1989, at the age of 32, Souther reportedly committed suicide by asphyxiation after sealing himself in his garage and starting his car. Russian newspapers suggested he had been depressed by living far from his birthplace. His death was announced by the \"Red Star\" newspaper, and he was eulogized by KGB chairman Vladimir Kryuchkov, who considered him to be very important agent. He was buried in Kuntsevo Cemetery.\n\nHis suicide note contained the following text:\n\nDespite some expressions which make it clear that it has been written by a foreigner, such as \"as it was always,\" which is unusual for native Russian-speakers, who use the shortened form \"as always,\" the note itself has been written in coherent, literary Russian.\n\nIn his earlier notes of 1988 he claimed that Russia was his Dreamland, the land which astonished him, despite the loneliness he suffered while living far from the places he was born to.\n"}
{"id": "40072989", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40072989", "title": "Husa knife", "text": "Husa knife\n\nA Husa knife, also sometimes called Achang knife, is traditional forged weapon of the Achang people of China. The Achang live mainly in the village of \"Husa\", and smaller villages nearby, in Longchuan County, Dehong Autonomous Prefecture in Yunnan Province, near the border between China and Burma.\n\nHusa is well known for its knife and sword makers, who have sold their products to Burma and regions along Nu River since ancient times. The Achang craftsmen make a variety of types of blades.\n\nHusa knives are made with a special process which gives the metal a pure texture, and a really sharp and durable blade. The handles and sheaths are also inscribed with various traditional patterns, such as \"flying dragon and phoenix\", \"tiger roaring\", \"eastern sunrise\", making each knife a work of art.\n\nEach Achang family keeps at least one knife of high quality. When the young Achang men get married, they carry back knives to show their heroic vitality. This ethnic custom has continued to the present time.\n\nForging techniques have been passed down through the generations of the Achang people since the Tang Dynasty. \nAccording to historical records, around 600 years ago, during the \"Hongwu\" period in Ming Dynasty, soldiers from the army of Mu Ying, a general of the Ming government, were settled in this area. The soldiers brought military techniques of weapon making, gathered during their campaigns against Mongolia, Tibet, the Hui and the Yi, to the local Achang people. Husa village become the \"arsenal\" of Ming government armies. Achang people absorbed the Ming government army’s weapon manufacturing technology and evolved a unique Husa knife forge craftsmanship, which matured during the late Ming Dynasty and early Qing Dynasty (around 1600-1680), reached a its peak in early twentieth Century.\n\nIn the fight against Napoleon's army, those sabers, forged by the Husa were highly prized by the soldiers.\n\nDuring the First World War, British forces set up a \"Jingpo\" nationality army in Burma and every soldier was equipped with a special Husa saber, called \"Geleka\". \n\nIn 1990, the master forgers in Husa created a \"Nine dragons\" commander's sword. This sword is worn by the honor guard of Chinese People's Liberation Army, guarding the Chinese national flag on Tian'anmen Square.\n\nHusa knives have long been in demand by nearby Han, Dai, Jingpo, Lisu, Tibetan, Bai and other ethnic people. Recently, Husa knives have been sold widely from Yunnan Province to Beijing, Tibet, Qinghai, Xinjiang, Gansu, Inner Mongolia and other places, and exported to Burma, Thailand, India and other countries.\n\nUnder the pressure of the modern culture and the social economy, the Husa knife, forged by traditional techniques and devices, faces heavy competition from less expensive knives made by modern machinery and raw materials. As the traditional masters age, apprentices are rare, and the techniques of Husa knife creation face the danger of extinction.\n\nMany variations of the Husa knife have been developed during its long history. Some of these are: back swords (cane knives), machetes, broadswords, Tibetan knives (specifically made for Tibetans), daggers, and sabers. The best known types are the back sword (long blade) and Tibetan knife, and these are made with particularly elaborate quality and style. The Tibetan knife has wide and thick blade, and is made in various lengths, with delicate inscription \"tiger roaring\", \"swallow flying\" and other traditional patterns on the handle and sheath. Many Tibetan people wear the knife as their essential tool and ornament.\n\nThe production process of Husa knife has 10 steps:\nSpecial technique is especially important in the process of quenching. Through heat treatment, the quenching optimizes the hardness and toughness of the blade. In historical records, the blades are described as \"flexible enough to be bent, one hair blown on the blade, cut two, just can chop iron\".\n\nThe tools to make Husa knives include a wooden bellows, a clay-made stove, as well as hammers, clamps, and iron pillows. Raw iron with high carbon content is selected by an experienced old master from specific locations around Baoshan, Tengchong regions, the traditional mine areas in Yunnan. Younger craftsmen, put the selected raw iron into the stove, heating, forging repeatedly, to purify the texture and form different shapes. The resulting metal is ground into blade blanks; and after all these lengthy processes, comes the most important and subtlest process: quenching. Quenching technology requires special know-how. The quality of a knife, largely depends on the quenching skills. There is a kind of thin blade Husa back sword which can bend its blade as a cycle. It can only be built after repeatedly and precisely water quenching and oil tempering.\nThe knife production comes under a model of co-operation between each \"Zhai\"(small stockaded village) in Husa. Each \"Zhai\" has its \"fist\" product. The whole Husa \"Bazi\"(small plain), likes a handicraft factory, and each \"Zhai\" is one workshop, which is famous for one special product. \nLaifu \"Zhai\" has well-known black cane knife, Mangdong \"Zhai\" has broadsword and dagger, Lajie \"Zhai\" has sharp sickles, Xin \"Zhai\" has back knife and Mangsuo \"Zhai\" has delicate sheaths.\n"}
{"id": "43715069", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43715069", "title": "ICloud leaks of celebrity photos", "text": "ICloud leaks of celebrity photos\n\nOn August 31, 2014, a collection of almost 500 private pictures of various celebrities, mostly women, and with many containing nudity, were posted on the imageboard 4chan, and later disseminated by other users on websites and social networks such as Imgur and Reddit. The images were initially believed to have been obtained via a breach of Apple's cloud services suite iCloud, or a security issue in the iCloud API which allowed them to make unlimited attempts at guessing victims' passwords. However, access was later revealed to have been gained via spear phishing attacks.\nThe event, which media outlets and Internet users referred to under names such as \"The Fappening\" (a portmanteau of the words \"fap\"—a slang term for masturbation—and the film \"The Happening\") and \"Celebgate\", was met with a varied reaction from the media and fellow celebrities. Critics felt that the distribution of the images was a major invasion of privacy for their subjects, while some of the allegedly depicted subjects questioned their authenticity. The leak also prompted increased concern from analysts surrounding the privacy and security of cloud computing services such as iCloud—with a particular emphasis on their use to store sensitive, private information.\n\nThe images were obtained via the online storage offered by Apple's iCloud platform for automatically backing up photos from iOS devices, such as iPhones. Apple later reported that the victims' iCloud account information was obtained using \"a very targeted attack on user names, passwords and security questions\", such as phishing and brute-force guessing. It was initially believed that the images were obtained using an exploit in the Find My iPhone service. Court documents from 2014 indicated that one user created a fake email account called \"appleprivacysecurity\" to ask celebrities for security information. The photos were being passed around privately for at least a couple of weeks before their public release on August 31. There are claims that unreleased photos and videos exist. The \"Daily Mail\" cited anonymous posters from 4chan and Deadspin who stated that a ring of hackers, traders, and sellers had been operating for months leading up to the mass release.\n\nThe hacker responsible for the leak, who described themselves as being a \"collector\", distributed the leaked images on the image boards 4chan and Anon-IB in exchange for Bitcoin. Ultimately, the images were widely circulated online via other channels, including Imgur and Tumblr. Celebrity gossip blogger Perez Hilton also re-posted some of the photos on his blog, but soon took them down and issued an apology, saying \"he had acted in bad taste\".\n\nA major center of activity was the link-sharing website Reddit, where a subreddit was created for sharing the photos; in a single day, it amassed over 100,000 followers. Reddit administrators were criticized for allowing this to take place in an alleged violation of their anti-doxing rules. As McKayla Maroney claimed to be under 18 at the time the photos of her were taken, Reddit staff took photos of her down and warned that anyone re-posting them, or underage photos of Liz Lee which had been circulating prior to this incident, would be permanently banned from the site and could be prosecuted for distributing child pornography. On September 7, citing copyright issues, Reddit banned its \"TheFappening\" subreddit, also saying the workload of dealing with them had become too much. Reddit banned another subreddit named \"Fappening\" on the same day.\n\nThe original release contained photos and videos of more than 100 individuals that were allegedly obtained from file storage on hacked iCloud accounts, including some the leakers claimed were A-list celebrities. Shortly after the photos were leaked, several affected celebrities issued statements to either confirm or deny the photos' authenticity. Celebrities who have confirmed the photos' authenticity include Jennifer Lawrence (confirmed by her publicist), Kate Upton and her boyfriend Justin Verlander (confirmed by Upton's lawyer), Mary Elizabeth Winstead (confirmed on Twitter), Jessica Brown Findlay (confirmed by spokesman), Kaley Cuoco (confirmed via Instagram), and Kirsten Dunst, who also criticized the iCloud service. Jill Scott confirmed on Twitter that one of the leaked photos was of her while stating that another was fake.\n\nCelebrities who have denied the photos' authenticity include Ariana Grande and Yvonne Strahovski. Olympic gymnast McKayla Maroney initially denied the images' authenticity on Twitter, then later confirmed that the photos were legitimate while also stating she was underage at the time they were taken. Victoria Justice denied that the photos were authentic but later stated on Twitter that she was pursuing legal actions and found the leak to be a massive invasion of not just her privacy, but of the privacy of all the celebrities affected by the leak. Reports in October indicated that Nick Hogan was the first male star to be directly targeted by hackers, however Hogan denied the pictures' authenticity.\n\nAccording to security expert Nik Cubrilovic, in addition to the photographs, other personal information such as text messages, calendars, address books, phone call logs and any other data stored on their phones and backed up to the service were also likely stolen.\n\nOn September 20, 2014, a second batch of similar private photos of additional celebrities was leaked by hackers. On September 26, a third batch was also leaked, which was dubbed as \"The Fappening 3\".\n\nWriter Van Badham condemned the photo leaks and the people who shared the photos. Actress Lena Dunham pleaded on Twitter for people not to view the pictures, saying doing so \"violat[es] these women over and over again. It's not okay.\" Actress Emma Watson condemned not only the release of the photos, but also \"the accompanying comments [on social media] that show such a lack of empathy.\" Actors Seth Rogen and Lucas Neff also spoke out against the hackers and people who posted the pictures. Justin Verlander, then a pitcher for the Detroit Tigers, told the media prior to a game against the Cleveland Indians that he keeps his private life private and would rather focus on the Tigers' race with the Kansas City Royals for the AL Central title than be a distraction to his teammates. Security analysts have stated that the breach could have been prevented through the use of two-factor authentication, while a \"Forbes\" writer recommended turning off the iCloud \"Photo Stream\" feature (which uploads photos taken with an iOS device to iCloud servers automatically) entirely.\n\nThe incident has been given many names, including \"The Fappening\" (a portmanteau of \"The Happening\" and \"fap\", an internet slang term for male masturbation) and \"Celebgate\" (a reference to the Watergate scandal). The term \"The Fappening\" has received criticism from journalists like Radhika Sanghani of \"The Daily Telegraph\" and Toyin Owoseje of \"The International Business Times\", who said that the term not only trivialized the leak, but also, according to Sanghani, \"[made] light of a very severe situation\"; both articles used the term extensively to describe the event, including in the headlines.\n\nIn an interview with \"The Wall Street Journal\", Apple CEO Tim Cook stated that in response to the leaks, the company planned to take additional steps to protect the privacy and security of iCloud users in the future. Notifications will be provided whenever data is restored to a device via iCloud and after logging into iCloud via a web browser, in addition to existing notifications when a user's iCloud password is changed. Additionally, Apple will broaden and encourage the use of two-factor authentication in future versions of its software and operating systems, such as the then-upcoming IOS 8. In conclusion, he emphasized that \"we want to do everything we can do to protect our customers, because we are as outraged if not more so than they are.\"\n\nJennifer Lawrence contacted authorities and her publicist has stated that the authorities will prosecute anyone who posts leaked images of her. \"Forbes\" columnist Joseph Steinberg questioned whether the reactions by law enforcement and technology providers indicated that celebrities were being treated differently from ordinary Americans, which, in the case of law enforcement, may be illegal.\n\nOn October 1, 2014, Google was threatened with a lawsuit by lawyer Martin Singer for $100 million on behalf of unnamed victims of the leaks, alleging that Google had refused to respond to requests for the images to be removed from its platforms (including Blogger and YouTube), \"[failing] to act expeditiously, and responsibly to remove the images\", and \"knowingly accommodating, facilitating, and perpetuating the unlawful conduct\".\n\nIn an interview with \"Vanity Fair\", Lawrence called the leak a \"sex crime\" and a \"sexual violation\" and added, \"anybody who looked at those pictures, you're perpetuating a sexual offense and you should cower with shame\". This view was contrasted by another victim of the hack, Emily Ratajkowski, who told \"GQ\", \"A lot of people who were victims of [the hack] said anyone who looks at these pictures should feel guilty, but I just don't think that's fair\", and \"I'm not sure that anyone who Googles it is necessarily a criminal. I think the people who stole the photos are\".\n\nThe FBI said that it was \"aware of the allegations concerning computer intrusions and the unlawful release of material involving high profile individuals, and is addressing the matter.\" Similarly, Apple stated that it had been investigating whether a security breach of the iCloud service was responsible for the leaked photographs, as per the company's commitment to user privacy. On September 2, 2014, Apple reported that the leaked images were the result of compromised accounts, using \"a very targeted attack on user names, passwords and security questions, a practice that has become all too common on the Internet\".\n\nIn October 2014, FBI searched a house in Chicago and seized several computers, cell phones and storage drives after tracking the source of a hacking attack to an IP address linked to an individual named Emilio Herrera. A related search warrant application mentioned eight victims with initials A.S., C.H., H.S., J.M., O.W., A.K., E.B., and A.H., which supposedly point to stolen photos of Abigail Spencer, Christina Hendricks, Hope Solo, Jennette McCurdy, Olivia Wilde, Anna Kendrick, Emily Browning, and Amber Heard. According to law enforcement officials, Herrera was just one of several people under investigation and the FBI carried out various searches across the country. Herrera pleaded guilty to one count of unauthorized access to a protected computer to obtain information in October 2017, and was sentenced to 16 months in jail in March 2018.\n\nIn March 2016, 36-year-old Ryan Collins of Lancaster, Pennsylvania agreed to plead guilty to one count of unauthorized access to a protected computer to obtain information resulting in a 18-month sentence. While no victims were named in the court documents, numerous media outlets connected Collins' case to The Fappening. During the investigation, it was found that Collins phished by sending e-mails to the victims that looked like they came from Apple or Google, warning the victims that their accounts might be compromised and asking for their account details. The victims would enter their passwords, and Collins gained access to their accounts, downloading e-mails and iCloud backups. In October 2016, Collins was sentenced to 18 months in prison.\n\nIn August 2016, 28-year-old Edward Majerczyk of Chicago, Illinois agreed to plead guilty to a similar phishing scheme, although authorities believe he worked independently and he was not accused of selling the images or posting them online. On January 24, 2017, Majerczyk was sentenced to nine months in prison and was ordered to pay $5,700 in restitution to cover the counseling services of one unnamed celebrity victim.\n\nIn April 2018, 26-year-old George Garofano of North Branford, Connecticut pleaded guilty to one count of unauthorized access to a protected computer to obtain information. \nOn August 29, 2018, a federal court sentenced Garofano to eight months in prison.\n\nOn October 22, 2018, Christopher Brannan, a former Virginia teacher, became the fifth man to be convicted in relation to the hacking. Brannan pled guilty to federal charges of aggravated identity theft and unauthorized access to a protected computer. Through a phishing expedition, he hacked more than 200 people. In addition to his celebrity victims, Brannan targeted his underage sister-in-law, as well as teachers and students at the school he used to teach at.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9532900", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9532900", "title": "I Even Met Happy Gypsies", "text": "I Even Met Happy Gypsies\n\nI Even Met Happy Gypsies is a 1967 Yugoslav film by Serbian director Aleksandar Petrović. Its original Serbian title is Skupljači perja, which means \"The Feather Gatherers\". The film is centered on Romani people's life in a village in northern Vojvodina, but it also deals with subtler themes such as love, ethnic and social relationships. Beside Bekim Fehmiu, Olivera Vučo, Bata Živojinović and Mija Aleksić, film features a cast of Romani actors speaking the Romani language. \"I Even Met Happy Gypsies\" is considered one of the best films of the Black Wave in Yugoslav cinema.\n\nThe protagonist, Beli Bora Perjar (Bekim Fehmiu), is a charming but mean-spirited gypsy, while his former affair, the kafana singer Lenče (Olivera Katarina), is submissive. Bora is in love with the younger Tisa (Gordana Jovanović), who is being offered in marriage by her step-father. The two get themselves in trouble and eventually have to flee. Tisa rejects her husband and she and Bora get married in the church. Tisa tries to get to Belgrade, while Bora stabs a man in a knife fight. They are both, therefore, exiled from their Romani camp, yet their adventures continue.\n\nRest of cast listed alphabetically:\n\nAt the 1967 Cannes Film Festival it was nominated for the Palme d'Or and won the Special Grand Prize of the Jury and the FIPRESCI Prize.\n\nThe film was nominated for the 1967 Academy Award for Best Foreign Language Film (event in April 1968) and for the Golden Globe Award for Best Foreign Language Film. Bata Živojinović also won a Golden Arena award for Best Actor at the 1967 Pula Film Festival for his portrayal of Mirta.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1769273", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1769273", "title": "Indian Singaporeans", "text": "Indian Singaporeans\n\nIndian Singaporeans or Singaporean Indians (, \"Ciṅkappūr Intiyarkaḷ\") – defined as persons of South Asian ancestry – constitute 9.0% of the country's citizens, making them the third largest ethnic group in Singapore.\n\nWhile contact with ancient India left a deep impact on Singapore's indigenous Malay culture, the mass migration of Indians to the island only began with the founding of modern Singapore by the British in 1819. Initially, the Indian population was transient, mainly comprising young men who came as workers, soldiers and convicts. By the mid-20th century, a settled community had emerged, with a more balanced gender ratio and a better spread of age groups.\n\nSingapore's Indian population is notable for its class stratification, with large elite and lower income groups. This has grown more visible since the 1990s with an influx of both well-educated and unskilled migrants from India, which has created new contradictions.\n\nSingapore Indians are linguistically and religiously diverse, with ethnic Tamils and nominal Hindus forming majorities. The local Indian culture has endured and evolved over almost 200 years. By the 1990s, it had grown somewhat distinct from contemporary South Asian cultures, even as Indian elements became diffused within a broader Singaporean culture. Since then, new immigrants have increased the size and complexity of the local Indian population. Low-cost carriers, cable television and the Internet now connect the local Indian community with the culture of India and the Indian diaspora.\n\nSeveral in-depth studies have been conducted and published in the recent years on the Indian communities in Singapore such as Rajesh Rai's, Indians in Singapore, 1819 -1945: Diaspora in the Colonial Port City, Anitha Devi Pillai's, From Kerala to Singapore: Voices from the Singapore Malayalee Community and Mathew Mathews, The Singapore Ethnic Mosaic amongst others.\n\nProminent Indian individuals have long made a mark in Singapore as leaders of various fields in national life. Indians are also collectively well represented, in areas such as politics, education, diplomacy and the law.\n\nThe Singapore Department of Statistics defines 'Indians' as a 'race' (or 'ethnic group'), comprising \"persons of Indian, Pakistani, Bangladeshi or Sri Lankan origin such as Tamils, Malayalis, Punjabis, Bengalis, Sinhalese etc.\"\n\nIndians 'in Singapore' may be further defined in terms of nationality and residency status. Most ethnic Indians are Singapore citizens, known as 'Singaporean Indians', or 'local Indians'. They are usually the locally born second, third, fourth or even fifth generation descendants of immigrants from the Indian subcontinent. In addition, there are many ethnic Indian immigrant workers in Singapore. Citizens of the Republic of India are called 'Indian nationals', or even 'Indian Indians'. Foreign Indians may be distinguished in terms of residency status.\n\nWell educated professionals or entrepreneurs with a high earning capacity are granted renewable Employment Passes. These entitle the holder’s spouse, children and parents to Dependents Passes. Students may enter on Students Passes. Pass holders may apply for Permanent Residence, which lets them live in Singapore on a long term-basis. As part of Singaporean nationality law, they are also eligible to apply for Singapore Citizenship. In contrast, unskilled foreign workers enter Singapore with Work Permits. They are rarely allowed to stay in Singapore for more than two years and are never allowed to bring dependents with them. Nor are they eligible to apply for either Permanent Residence or Citizenship.\n\nDemographic statistics are generally restricted to 'Singapore residents', defined as both Singapore citizens and Permanent Residents. Many of the statistics about Indians in Singapore in this article are restricted to this group. Scholars have noted \"(o)fficial figures for workers on temporary contracts are difficult to obtain because the Ministry of Manpower in Singapore considers the information sensitive.\" Consequently, there is limited information about short-term or 'non-resident' Indians in Singapore. Note that use of the term 'non-resident' Indian should not be confused with the concept of the Non Resident Indian or NRI, which the government of the Republic of India uses to describe its citizens living abroad. In Singapore, an NRI may be statistically non-resident (in the case of work permit or pass holders) or he/she may be considered a Singapore resident (in the case of permanent residents).\n\nSingaporean Indians are grouped according to their respective ethnolinguistic backgrounds in the Indian subcontinent, or 'dialect group'. Most Indians in Singapore have ancestral links to southern India and Sri Lanka, with substantial groups from northern India and western India accounting for most of the remainder. These are generally the descendants of both free and indentured immigrants from India during the 19th and early half of the 20th century.\n\nIn 2010, the Singapore census categorised 237,473 Singaporeans and 110,646 permanent residents into a number of 'dialect' groups. However, these groups included Sikhs, who are a religious rather than linguistic group. Virtually all of the Sikhs are Punjabi, which was also captured as a separate 'dialect' category (comprising mainly Hindu Punjabis). Given their small absolute and relative numbers, the following table adapts the 2010 census data by combining the 'Sikh' (12,952) and 'Punjabi' (5,672) category under 'Punjabi'.\n\nThe percentages in the table refer to the proportion of each language group within the larger Resident Indian community in Singapore.\n\nSingapore's Indian community is characterised by an ethnic Tamil majority (54.18%) and a large number of smaller groups. Ethnic Tamils in Singapore include both Tamils from India and Sri Lankan Tamils (sometimes referred to as 'Ceylonese'). Malayalees from Kerala in southern India form the second largest community, making up 7.57% of the Indian population. Tamils and Malayalees are the two main south Indian communities in Singapore, forming two-thirds of the Indian population. Meanwhile, the three main north Indian groups in Singapore (the Punjabi, Gujarati, and Sindhi communities) constitute 7.67% of all Indians. The remaining 29.68% comprises many smaller groups from both southern India (such as the Telugus and Kannadigas), eastern India (such as the Bengalis), and northern India (Hindustanis).\n\nAncient India exerted a profound influence over Southeast Asia through trade, religious missions, wars and other forms of contact. Pre-colonial Singapore was part of 'Indianised Kingdoms' like Srivijaya and the Majapahit, which formed part of a cultural region known as Greater India.\n\nPrior to the spread of Islam, Singapore and the rest of the Malay World, was Hindu-Buddhist. One of the most extensive and enduring Indian influence in Malay culture is the vast number of Indian loan words in the Malay language.\n\nIndian influence is also seen in symbols and mythology associated with ancient Singapore. . The Sejarah Melayu or Malay Annals describe the Indian prince who founded Singapore – Sang Nila Utama – as being a descendant of Alexander the Great and an Indian Princess. Meanwhile, the royal and sacred associations of Fort Canning Hill, the seat of ancient rulers, are related to the Hindu Mount Meru concept.\n\nArchaeological digs have unearthed Hindu-Buddhist artefacts from the pre-colonial period. In 1822, John Crawfurd documented the ruins of a Hindu or Buddhist temple on Fort Canning Hill. Singapore's two most important pre-colonial artefacts are the Singapore Stone, which is inscribed with an Indic script, and a gold armlet bearing the motif of a Hindu 'kala' head.\n\nFollowing the Portuguese colonisation of Malacca (Malaysia) in 1511, the Portuguese government encouraged their explorers to bring their married Indian women who were converted already to Roman Catholic Christianity, under a policy set by Afonso de Albuquerque, then Viceroy of India. These people were Goan Catholics (Konkani Catholics) and East Indians (Catholics of Marathi descent). Kuparis who were of mixed Samvedic Brahmin, Goan and Portuguese descent also arrived. Sinhalese and their children from Portuguese that include Portuguese Burghers from Portuguese Ceylon also came later. Their children already intermarried with Malay population, losing their ethnic identities. Indian contact was rekindled from 1819 to World War II, when both India and Singapore were under British colonial rule. Unlike earlier forms of contact, this led to mass migration and, eventually, the formation of a large, settled and distinct population. By 1824, Singapore's first census counted 756 Indian residents, or about 7% of the total population. In 1826, official figures give a total population of 13,750, of which 1,021 are Indians – 244 from Bengal and 777 from the Coromandel Coast, most of whom were males.\n\nInitially, Indian immigrants were predominantly adult men who came from India to find work, serve military duties or prison sentences for several years before returning home. There was a constant flow of Indians in and out of the city, keeping the local community fairly transient. A minority of Indians were also wealthy merchants who settled in Singapore and built local commercial and social institutions. Best known amongst them was Naraina Pillai, the earliest Indian community leader and the island's first building contractor. In 1827, he also founded the Sri Mariamman Temple, Singapore oldest Hindu place of worship.\n\nThe influx of Indians in the half century after 1819 led to a brief period when Indians, for the only time, overtook the Malays to become the second largest ethnic group. In 1860, they formed 16% of the population. However, their number then fell from 13,000 that year to 12,000 in 1880, or 8.7% of the population. Following this, Indians slowly began to settle permanently in greater numbers and the relative size of the community in colonial Singapore became stable, fluctuating between 7.7% and 9.4%.\n\nScholars have characterised the Indian community in colonial times as being diverse and highly stratified along class lines. According to Dr Rajesh Rai, the social hierarchy comprised four main groups: the educated professional elite (over 0.5% of the Indian community), mercantile groups (under 10%), the white collar middle class (5–7%) and the uneducated labourers (over 80%).\n\nEconomic class and job functions were also aligned with the ethnic origins of immigrants. For example, Sri Lankan Tamils and Malayalees formed the core of the English educated upper middle class. Mercantile families tended to be Sindhi, Gujarati, and Tamil Muslim. South Indian upper caste Hindus tended to perform traditional skilled jobs, such as moneylenders (Chettiars) and priests (Brahmins). Sikhs were often policemen or private security guards. Most of these migrants were voluntary migrants who entered and left Singapore freely on their own resources. Unskilled coolies tended to be landless Tamil peasants from the Shudra caste as well as Adi Dravidas or 'Untouchables'. These were often indentured labourers who were brought through various labour recruitment systems to work on rubber plantations in Malaya. Many later came to work in Singapore once free of their bonds. Another group which was less than free was the military. The first Indians in Singapore were 120 sepoys in the Bengal Native Infantry and a 'bazaar contingent' of washermen, servants and others who came with Stamford Raffles on his first visit in 1819. Throughout the colonial period, military personnel came from all over India. Most returned home after their service without settling in Singapore.\n\nFinally, there were the convicts. In the 19th century, the British shipped Indian convicts to Singapore to relieve overcrowded Indian jails. These men (and some women) were used as labour to build public buildings and roads in Singapore. Like the sepoys, they came from all parts of India. While some returned to India, several settled in Singapore after serving their sentences.\n\nFrom the 19th century, Hindu reform movements emerged in India as part of a broader cultural modernisation. These movements sought to promote what they saw as a more authentic form of Hinduism while addressing social abuses, such as the Hindu caste system. These movements spread to overseas Indian communities, including Singapore. Groups like the Ramakrishna Mission, Arya Samaj and Sree Narayana Mission were active conduits of this reform movement. Traditional religious practices, especially among lower caste Hindus, centred around various rural folk traditions, esoteric rituals and superstitions. In contrast, the new movement appealed to better educated urban Hindus, by conducting religious education classes for children and adults, and interpreting the values, concepts and principals behind the religion for lay people. These groups also encouraged a more direct relationship with God, unmediated by Brahmin priests and rituals, through individual devotion (stemming from the Bhakti movement), chanting Bhajans, or hymns, as well as through yoga. Charitable service was also promoted. The Ramakrishna Mission in Singapore set up a home for boys from troubled homes, while the Sree Narayana Mission set up a home of the destitute elderly.\n\nAnother social reform movement was the Self-Respect Movement, which emerged in Tamil Nadu in the 1920s to liberate Dravidian people, and especially Adi Dravidas and lower caste Tamils from what was seen as Brahmin oppression. This movement sought inspiration from Tamil history and culture. In Singapore, groups like the Tamil Reform Association were inspired by this movement. They imported publications from India that promoted the movement, and they also hosted visiting leaders of the Self-Respect Movement from Tamil Nadu when they visited Singapore. The Singapore groups focussed on moral, social and religious reform. For example, they campaigned against caste distinctions and alcohol abuse. These groups also promoted the use of the Tamil language, and the development of Tamil literature in Singapore, through the establishment of Tamil newspapers and schools. They were also involved in the union activism, especially in those work sectors dominated by Tamils. Tamil-educated journalists and teachers were at the forefront of this movement. Leaders like Thamizhavel G. Sarangapani were especially instrumental in championing the rights of Tamils and Indians, by encouraging Indians to register for Singapore citizenship in the 1950s, and by campaigning to make Tamil one of Singapore's official languages.\n\nThe 1915 Singapore Mutiny, also known as the 1915 Sepoy Mutiny, was an incident concerning 850 sepoys (Indian soldiers) who mutinied against the British on 15 February 1915 in Singapore, as part of the 1915 Ghadar Conspiracy (not to be mistaken for the Indian Mutiny of 1857). The mainly Muslim sepoys mutinied because they believed they were being sent to fight for the British against Muslim Turks, as part of the First World War. This mutiny lasted nearly 7 days, and resulted in the deaths of 47 British soldiers and local civilians. The mutineers were later rounded up and executed. In general, the mutiny was restricted to the Muslim sepoys, and did not involve the wider Indian population. While the mutiny was a significant event in the history of Singapore, and one of the most important ones specifically involving the Indian community, it was somewhat distinct from the mainstream development of Indian nationalist sentiments in the local Indian population, which emerged most prominently around the time of the Second World War.\n\nNationalist movements in India established branch organisations in Singapore to draw on local Indian support for Indian independence. The Indian Independence League was a political organisation operated from the 1920s to the 1940s to organise those living outside of India to remove the British from India. Founded in 1928 by Indian nationalists Subhas Chandra Bose and Jawaharlal Nehru, the organisation was active in Singapore and Malaya following Japan's successful Malayan Campaign in the Second World War.\n\nThe Indian National Army (INA) was an armed force formed by Indian nationalists in 1942 in South east Asia, also during World War II. Their aim was to overthrow the British Raj in colonial India, with Japanese assistance. Many Indian soldiers and civilians were recruited in Singapore and Malaya to join the INA during the Japanese occupation. Many of them died fighting alongside the Japanese against the British in Burma during the war.\n\nIndian nationalist sentiments in Singapore and Malaya were paralleled by the rise of Chinese nationalism amongst the overseas Chinese in these territories. As these colonies progressed towards independence, Indians and Chinese in Malaya organised themselves along the lines of ethnic political parties. For instance, the Indian Association in Singapore, today a social and recreational club, was one of a network of such clubs in early 20th century Malaya which came together to form what would become the Malaysian Indian Congress (MIC), the current ethnic Indian party within Malaysia's ruling Barisan National coalition government.\n\nUnlike Malaysia's delicate ethno-demographic balance, Singapore had a large Chinese majority. This rendered ethnic-based politics less viable, and tended to support class-based politics instead. For example, several Indian professionals supported the more conservative pro-British parties, as they had been beneficiaries of the colonial system. In contrast, the ruling People's Action Party (PAP) espoused an ideology of social democracy which gained the support of Indian union workers. S. Rajaratnam was one of the founding members of the PAP, and he worked to define and champion its vision of a multi-racial country, in contrast to the Malaysian model.\n\nMore left-leaning Indian leaders and intellectuals, such as C.V. Devan Nair and James Puthucheary initially supported more radically left-wing groups. They had been imprisoned by the British for their radical union activism. Later, some of these men join the more moderate wing of the PAP. Devan Nair went on to build the modern trades union movement in Singapore, the National Trades Union Congress. Consequently, Indians in Singapore tended to align themselves, both individually and as groups, with parties advocating specific political or economic ideologies, rather than along purely racial lines. This basic difference between the Indian communities of Singapore and Malaysia has endured to the present day.\n\nScholars have identified two phases in the development of the Indian community after Singaporean independence in 1965. The first phase, from 1965 to the early 1990s, saw a decline in the proportion of the community from 9% in 1957 to a low of 6.4% in 1980. One reason was the withdrawal of British military forces in the early 1970s, which led to the repatriation of many Indian base workers. Another factor was the retirement of older men, who chose to return to families in India. Meanwhile, post-1965 immigration restrictions ended new migration from India. Furthermore, there was a rise in the emigration of Indian Singaporeans to the West in the late 1980s. During this time, the Indian population continued to grow in absolute terms due to natural increase. Even as it grew proportionally smaller, the community also became more settled, with several new generations born locally.\n\nFrom the 1960s to 1980s, the People's Action Party government tried to cultivate a shared national identity and to end the historical tendency of Singaporeans to identify with the national – and often nationalistic – politics of their ancestral homelands. While different ethnic groups were allowed, and sometimes encouraged to retain their cultural identities, they were also pushed to integrate socially, politically and economically across ethnic lines. The government pursued policies to integrate the races in public housing estates and national schools. Young men underwent two years of compulsory national service in ethnically mixed military or police camps. Traditional family businesses were superseded by government agencies or foreign multi-national corporations, which hired multi-ethnic workforces on the basis of meritocratic ability rather than kinship or ethnicity. Consequently, \"the cultivation of a Singaporean identity has been largely successful in converting Indian migrants into Indian-Singaporeans.\" In general, Indian social patterns and political activities became aligned and integrated within the national mainstream from the 1960s.\n\nAlthough the Singapore government championed public policies and a political discourse of racial integration and national identity, it came to recognise that important differences in the socio-economic profiles of the three main races continued to endure in the post-colonial period. Initially, it had set up Mendaki, a quasi-autonomous Malay community self-help group to promote educational advancement within that community to address underperformance by Malay students. In the 1980s, this approach – which was initially seen as an exceptional measure taken in the case of the Malay community – became entwined with the rhetoric of Asian values, which saw the promotion of a greater consciousness and pride in each citizen's own ethnic heritage, as a bulwark against the supposedly negative influence of Western culture. Consequently, the government established the Singapore Indian Development Association (SINDA) in 1991 to address the educational and social problems of the Indian community. Shortly after, a similar body was set up for the majority Chinese community.\n\nApart from ethnic self-help groups like SINDA (which remain controversial in Singapore), the government has in the main pursued policies emphasising racial integration and national identity. It is against this backdrop that immigration policies were liberalised in the 1990s, leading to an influx of foreigners in Singapore, particularly Indian nationals. This led to a new phase in the history of the Indian community in Singapore.\n\nA second phase began in the early 1990s, when immigration policies were liberalised to attract foreign professionals to boost the size and skills of the local workforce. The government was keen to draw in well educated migrants from Asian countries who, it was hoped, would be both keen and able to settle permanently. This also addressed the problem of Singapore's extremely low fertility rates. In addition to these professionals, unskilled foreign workers were recruited as low cost manual labour for construction sites and the cleaning sector, albeit without the prospect of permanent settlement. As a result of these policies, the Indian population grew faster than other groups. The proportion of Indian citizens and permanent residents rose from 6.4% in 1980 to 9.23% in 2010. This was mainly due to rapid growth in the number of Indian nationals who acquired Singapore citizenship or permanent residency.\n\nFor some years now, the Department of Statistics has stopped providing ethnic data about the short-term or 'non-resident' foreign citizens living in Singapore (i.e. those without Singapore Permanent Residence). As of end June 2007, there were 1,005,500 such persons, or 21.5% of the total population. This group includes two-year work permit holders as well as those holding renewable Employment, Dependant and Student Passes. In 2005, Dr Rajesh Rai from the National University of Singapore has observed that \"independent surveys approximate the number of South Asians on work permits to be… approximately 90,000–100,000.\" In November 2007, a cabinet minister said \"more than 20,000 Indian professionals had set up home\" in Singapore, although it is unclear if this referred only to Employment Pass holders, or if it included Permanent Residents, Student Pass and/or Dependant Pass holders. Based on these figures, the number of short-term or 'non-resident' Indians in Singapore in 2007 is likely to be in the region of 100,000. As such, the proportion of Indians in the total population is likely to range from 9% to 10% (suggesting 89,000 to 135,000 'non-resident' Indians).\n\nThe advance release figures from Singapore's 2010 Census show, for the first time, the number of ethnic Indian Singapore citizens, and ethnic Indian Singapore Permanent Residents, separately – instead of combining the two. As of 2010, there were 237,473 Indian Singapore citizens, or 7.35% of the citizen population. There were 110,646 Indian PRs, or 20.45% of the PR population. In total, ethnic Indians formed 348,119, or 9.23% of the 'resident' population of citizens and PRs.\n\nAlongside other ethnic groups, Indians from all social backgrounds have achieved significant advances in their educational levels, income, life expectancy and other social indicators. Singapore's extraordinary economic growth from the 1960s to 1990s lifted many out of poverty and created a broad middle class. In the process, many Indians experienced upward social mobility for the first time. Despite this progress, Indians remain somewhat stratified in terms of class relative to other ethnic groups. With the influx of highly qualified Indian Permanent Residents, the socio-economic indicators of the Indian community have improved, arguably masking the under-achievement of some Indians. In 2005, both the average and median monthly income for Indian Residents (S$3,660 and $2,480 respectively) exceeded those for all Residents (S$3,500 and S$2,410 respectively). In the same year, 25% of Indian Residents had a university degree as their highest qualification attained. In contrast the national average was only 17%.\n\nOther educations statistics are less positive. In 2004, only 73% of Indians among the Primary One cohort were admitted to a post-secondary institution, compared with 86% for the Chinese, and 75% for the Malays. In the same year, 73.7% of Indian students received 5 or more passes in the Singaporean GCE 'O' Level examinations, compared with 86.5% of Chinese students and 59.3% of Malays. Given their performance in the 'O' level examinations, it would appear Indians would have been under represented among students who sat for the 'A' level examination. However, those Indians who did reach the 'A' level and sat for this exam marginally outperformed the national average. 93% of Indians received 2 'A' and 2 'AO' level passes, compared with 92.6% among Chinese students, and 92.3% nationally. The socio-economic problems, and especially educational under-performance, facing Singapore Indians is addressed by the community through Singapore Indian Development Association (SINDA), the national self-help group for the Indian community.\n\nSingapore has the following international schools for expatriate Indians:\n\nThe official languages of Singapore are English, Malay, Chinese (Mandarin) and Tamil. The national language of Singapore is Malay for historical reasons, and it is used in the national anthem, \"Majulah Singapura\".\n\nPersons of ethnic Tamil ancestry form about 60% of Singapore's Indian residents. Minority Indian groups include Malayalees, Telugu, Punjabis, Sindhis, Gujaratis, Sinhalese, and Hindi-speaking people, among others. In terms of actual daily language use, 39% of Indian residents speak mainly English at home, and a similar number use Tamil. The remainder speak either Malay (11%) or other languages, including other Indian languages and Kristang (11%).There are about 3000 families which speak Marathi at home.\n\n3.1% of all Singapore residents speak mainly Tamil at home and it is one of the country's four official languages. Tamil is taught as a second language in most public schools. Tamil content (produced locally or abroad) is available on free-to-air and cable television as well as radio channels, and in libraries, cinemas, theatres and bookshops. Tamil is used in temples, mosques and churches catering to the community. Some business and non-profit groups, especially those in the Little India neighbourhood, use Tamil on a daily basis.\n\nMany Indian loan words are found in Malay, and, to a lesser extent, in English. The influence of Indian vocabulary, syntax and pronunciation are also found in Singlish, the local English dialect. At the same time, Singapore Tamil is slightly distinct from the versions spoken in India and Sri Lanka, with its closest cousin being the Malaysian Tamil spoken across the border. Local usage includes some words from English, Malay and other languages. Meanwhile, certain Tamil words or phrases that are archaic in India and Sri Lanka are still used in Singapore.\n\nIndian Singaporeans are a religiously heterogeneous group. According to the 2015 census, 270,200 Singaporeans and permanent residents aged 15 years and above belonged to the following religious groups:\n\nIn the year 2010, 5.1% of the resident population aged above 15 years, were Hindu. Almost all Hindus in Singapore were ethnic Indians. The majority of Singapore's ethnic Indians (58.9%) are Hindu.\nIn the year 2015, 4.96% of the resident population aged above 15 years, were Hindu and Singapore's ethnic Indians (59.88%) are Hindu.\n\nThere are approximately 35 temples serving Hindus in Singapore. Most are built in the South Indian Dravidian style. Specific communities have established their own temples. For instance, the Sri Lankan Tamil community built the Sri Senpaga Vinayagar Temple at Ceylon Road, while the Chettiar community set up the Sri Thandayuthapani Temple at Tank Road. The North Indian community also established the Sri Lakshminarayan Temple, built in the North Indian style. Two Hindu temples have been gazetted as National Monuments of Singapore.\n\nAlthough temples may be historically associated with certain communities, Hindu temples in Singapore are open to all regardless or language, caste or religion (non-Hindus may visit the temples). A unique feature of Hinduism in Singapore is the fact that a noticeable number of non-Indians, usually Buddhist Chinese, do participate in a variety of Hindu activities, including praying to Hindu deities, donating money to the temple funds and participating in Hindu festivals like the fire-walking ceremony, and Thaipusam.\n\nThe most visible Hindu festivals in Singapore are Deepavali and Thaipusam. Minor celebrations include the Fire walking festival, Holi and Hindu temple chariot processions. Deepavali is a national public holiday in Singapore. For a month before it, the Little India district is decorated with ornamental fairy lights. Bazaars are held in different parts of the district, with stalls selling religious paraphenilia, greeting cards, food, decorations, clothes, etc. Deepavali day itself is marked with a ritual bath and prayers in the morning, followed by feasting and visits to family and friends.\n\nThaipusam is celebrated prominently in Singapore, Malaysia and other countries with large Tamil populations. As a penance, participants carry 'kavadis' along a processional route. Some men carry kavadis attached to their bodies via hooks and spears that pierce their skin. Thaipusam is the only time when major Singapore roads are closed for a religious procession. The festival is a major religious and urban event, drawing thousands of devotees, supporters and onlookers.\n\nSingapore's 9,733 Sikhs formed 0.4% of the Resident population aged above 15 years. As a long-established community in Singapore, Sikhs have also been given special space by the state, in the form of special exemptions from having to wear motorcycle helmets or standard military headgear (including caps, berets and helmets), due to their religious requirement to wear turbans. Likewise, Sikh schoolboys are allowed to wear turbans in national public schools, which otherwise maintain a strict policy of standardised uniforms. Like other religious communities, Sikhs have built several places of worship in Singapore, the oldest of which is the Central Sikh Temple, founded in 1912.\n\nAmong Muslim Singapore Residents, 12.4% were Indian, with most of the remainder being Malay; Indian Muslim Singaporeans easily intermarried with Malays. predate the Islamic period (c. 570-632 AD), or the birth of Islam. In reality, Indonesians and Malays came to know about Islam through the merchants of South India and not through Arab missionaries. Among Christian Singapore Residents, 6.0% were Indian, with most of the remainder being Chinese. Within the Christian community, Indians formed 10.3% of Roman Catholics (including Kristangs of part-Indian descent), and 3.9% of Non-Catholic Christians (mainly Protestants).\n\nWithin the wider Muslim and Christian communities, Indians have established their own places of worship, where sermons, services and prayers are conducted in Indian languages. Consequently, there are a substantial number of 'Indian' churches, mosques and Buddhist temples in Singapore. For example, the Masjid Jamae, built in 1826, is the oldest Tamil mosque in Singapore, and a National Monument. In 1888, the Tamil Catholic community set up the Church of Our Lady of Lourdes, Singapore's oldest Tamil Catholic Church, as well as a National Monument. The Sakya Muni Buddha Gaya Temple is a Theravada temple, built in a mix of Chinese, Indian, Sri Lankan and Thai styles, and is quite different from most Chinese Buddhist Mahayana temples in Singapore. The small Indian Buddhist community (mainly Sri Lankan Sinhalese) in Singapore often frequents this temple, which is located in Little India.\n\nMany of the clubs and associations established by and for Indians in Singapore are defined along narrower linguistic, religious or other sub-ethnic lines. The following groups are among the more important national Indian organisations in Singapore that cater to all Indians, regardless or cultural background.\n\n\nThe great variety of Singapore food includes Indian food, which tends to be Tamil cuisine and especially local Tamil Muslim cuisine, although North Indian food has become more visible recently. Indian dishes have become modified to different degrees, after years of contact with other Singapore cultures, and in response to locally available ingredients as well as changing local tastes. The local forms of Indian food may be seen as localised or even regional variations of Indian food, or in some cases, a form of hybrid Indian-Singaporean cuisine. Popular 'Indian' dishes and elements of Indian cuisine (although sometimes prepared and sold by non-Indians) include achar, curry (such as laksa and Fish head curry), Indian rojak, Indian mee goreng, murtabak, nasi biryani, roti john, roti prata and teh tarik.\n\nOther dishes were popular during the colonial period, when Indian ingredients and other culinary influences spread with the Empire to places like Singapore. Many of them endure in some homes and restaurants. Some of these dishes include mince, mulligatawny soup, fish moolie, curry tiffin, pork vindaloo and spiced Mutton chop.\n\nThere are also many other Indian foods that are less widely available foods, but which can still be found in several areas serving a more specifically Indian clientele, especially in and around Little India, Singapore. These include appam, bhatura, chutney, sambar, idli, muruku, putu mayam, samosa, tandoori, thosai, upma and various sweets, including jalebi, halva, laddu, paayasam and gulab jamun.\n\nThe Indian imprint on Singapore's urban landscape can be seen most prominently in the form of the Little India neighbourhood. On 7 July 1989, at the start of architectural conservation in Singapore, this area was gazetted for conservation, which makes its buildings legally protected from unauthorised modifications and demolition. Bounded by Serangoon Road, Sungei Road and Jalan Besar, the area is recognised as the hub of the Indian community in Singapore. It contains mainly two-storey shophouses of the Early, Transitional, Late and Art Deco Shophouse Styles, as well as several places of worship for different faiths. Apart from serving the social, cultural and commercial needs of the Indian community, the area is established as one of the more historic urban districts in Singapore, with a colourful personality that makes it an indelible part of the national landscape and identity. In 2004, it was also Singapore's third most popular free-access tourist attraction, after Orchard Road and Chinatown.\n\nBecause of their linguistic and religious diversity, Singapore Indians use a variety of naming conventions. Traditionally, most Tamil Hindus place their father's name after their given name, linked by 's/o' (son of) or 'd/o' (daughter of), e.g. 'Ravi s/o Govindasamy'. Similarly, Tamil Muslims have names in the form 'Abdul s/o Rahman' (in contrast to Malay Muslims, who use the connector 'bin' (son of) or 'binte / bte' (daughter of) instead). Likewise, a Tamil Christian name might be Daryl s/o David. The use of these connectors arose during the colonial period. However, this format is somewhat rare today.\n\nOften, an individual will reduce their father's name to an initial, hence 'G. Ravi'. This approach is popular among many Singapore politicians, as it simplifies names that, to non-Indian Singaporeans, can be very long, complicated and difficult to pronounce. Thus, the late Senior Minister Sinnathamby Rajaratnam was known as S. Rajaratnam, while former President Sellapa Ramanathan is known as S.R. Nathan. Likewise, other prominent Indians include S. Dhanabalan, S. Jayakumar and J.B. Jeyaratnam (also known simply as 'JBJ'). Likewise, Tamil Muslims and Christians also use initials in a similar way. It should be noted that this convention is regularly used in South India.\n\nAnother popular approach is to omit the 's/o' or 'd/o' connector altogether, e.g. 'Ravi Govindasamy'. While the name appears to conform to a Western format, the last name (Govindasamy) technically remains the father's name, and is not the family surname. As such, the individual should properly be addressed as 'Mr Ravi', rather than 'Mr Govindasamy'. However, some people use their father's name as a surname, i.e. Ravi calls himself 'Mr Govindasamy' and uses it as a surname for his children. Instead of naming his son 'Arun (s/o) Ravi', he would name him 'Arun Govindasamy' (or even 'Arun Govind'). This approach is also adopted among several Tamil Christians. Some new surnames have been created in this way.\n\nSeveral South Indians use caste names as surnames in the Western mode. Common examples of such names in Singapore include Iyer and Pillay/mudaliyar (Tamil), Nair and Menon (Malayalee) or Naidu (Telugu). Mention should also be made of some Tamil Christian families that have retain Indian names (as given and/or 'family' names) either instead of or alongside Western or Christian names, e.g. Vivian Balakrishnan.\n\nSome West and East Indian groups, such as the Gujaratis, Marathis and Bengalis, use family surnames, although the Gujaratis may choose whether to merge their father's name with the surname. Sikh men invariably adopt 'Singh' as their surname, while Sikh women adopt 'Kaur', as is their traditional practice. However, some Sikhs have also re-introduced supplementary family or clan names, thus instead of simply 'Charanjit Singh', an individual might adopt the name 'Charanjit Singh Siddhu' for himself or his son.\n\nIndian Singaporeans have made their mark nationally and even internationally in a variety of arenas.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18610308", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18610308", "title": "Iranians in France", "text": "Iranians in France\n\nIranians in France comprise immigrants from Iran to France, and their French-born descendants of Iranian national background.\n\nIranians from within the modern-day or previous borders of disestablished Iranian empires have a relatively long history in France. Jean Althen (Hovhannès Althounian), a Persian-Armenian agronomist from Nakhchivan, is known to have introduced madder to southern France in the 1750s. A statue of him was erected in Avignon expressing the city's gratefulness to him. The emergence of a genuine Iranian community in France can perhaps be traced back to 1855-6, when Farrok Khan Ḡaffārī, Amīn-al-Molk, later Amīn-al-Dawla was sent to Paris as the shah’s envoy. During his embassy, a group of forty-two Persian students, who became known as \"les enfants de Perse\" (Thieury, p. 39) and who were chosen mostly from the graduates of the recently founded Dar al-fonūn, were sent to France. Meanwhile, in the course of the latter part of the 19th century, the Persian upper classes gradually began to send their sons to Europe and especially to France to pursue higher studies.\n\nFrance was a popular destination for Persian (Iranian) international students in the early 20th century. The first government-sponsored Persian students, a group of 20, all went to France in 1926. In 1932, the Pahlavi government drew up a competitive examination to determine the distribution of government scholarships to aspiring international students; 110 out of the 125 students who passed the examination went to France, making them the overwhelming majority of all Persian students abroad. Another 66 chose France as their destination the following year. Aside from government-sponsored students, there were also 537 privately financed Persian students living in France in 1934, nearly half of the total 1,165 privately financed international students. However, in 1938, a governmental decree prohibited students from going abroad on private funds to pursue degrees. The Iranian students in France lived in dormitories on their school campuses, unlike Iranian students in Germany who rented private accommodations by themselves; this meant that they were often subject to surveillance by officials from the Iranian embassy, and prevented the growth of anti-Pahlavi activism among them. Germany, rather than France, would thus become the major European centre of Iranian dissent in the 1930s.\n\nNotable Iranians who studied in France include Mehdi Bazargan, the first Iranian to pass the entrance examination to any of the \"grandes écoles\"; he went on to become prime minister of Iran after the 1979 Iranian Revolution.\n\nToday, Iranians in France consist primarily of \"political emigrants\", who left Iran immediately after the revolution, because their association with communists, monarchists, or other opposition groups put them in danger, and \"socio-cultural emigrants\"—especially women and youths—who had little political affiliation but left Iran more slowly in the years following the revolution due to despair over the future of Iranian society. France expelled some of the political migrants, including Massoud Rajavi and his People's Mujahedin of Iran, in an effort to improve relations with Iran and secure the release of French hostages held by pro-Iranian forces in Lebanon.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2849675", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2849675", "title": "Japanese management culture", "text": "Japanese management culture\n\nJapanese management culture refers to working philosophies or methods in Japan. It included concepts and philosophies such as Just in Time, Kaizen and Total Quality Management.\nThe Japanese term \"hourensou\" (also rendered as “Ho-Ren-So”) refers to frequent reporting, touching base and discussing -- important attributes that are said to characterize collaboration and information flow within effective Japanese corporate culture. Hou’ stands for ‘Houkoku’, the Japanese word for ‘reporting’. ‘Ren’ comes from ‘Renraku’, the word for ‘informing’. ‘Sou’ is derived from ‘Soudan’, the word for ‘consulting’. refers to \"getting your hands dirty\", to identify or solve immediate problems and leaders are not exempt from this. Aspects of these principles are often mistaken by western managers \"micromanagement.\" In contrast, these principles are used as tools to shepherd processes.\n\nMohammed Ala and William Cordeiro (1999) described the Japanese decision-making process of “ringiseido.” “Ringiseido” provides the opportunity for equal ranking managers or employees of a group within a company to partake in an individual’s idea. The process adheres to the Japanese cultural desire of harmony among people. The physical action of “ringiseido” is referred to as the “ringi decision-making process.” It fosters an environment of support and agreement for a decision once a higher ranking manager has reviewed and accepted the recommended decision.\n\nThe term of “ringi” has two meanings. The first meaning being of “rin,\" ‘submitting a proposal to one’s supervisors and receiving their approval,’ and \"gi\" meaning ‘deliberations and decisions.’ Corporate policy is not clearly defined by the executive leadership of a Japanese company. Rather, the managers at all levels below executives must raise decisions to the next level except for routine decisions. The process of “ringi decision-making” is conducted through a document called a “ringisho.”\n\nThe “ringisho” is created and circulated by the individual who created the idea. As the “ringisho” reaches a peer for review, the peer places his or her “personal seal (hanko) right side up” to agree, “upside down” to disagree, and sideways to indicate being undecided. Once all peers have reviewed the “ringisho” the peers’ manager reviews the “ringisho” and places his or her hanko on it. The upper level manager’s decision is final and the “ringisho” is sent back to the originator who either initiates the idea or re-evaluates, based on the “hanko” of the upper level manager.\n\nTony Kippenberger (2002) elaborates on the leadership values that are deeply rooted in the Japanese business culture. These values were created by Konosuke Matsushita, the prominent deceased entrepreneur of Matsushita’s Electric Company, who cared deeply for the employees of his company as if they were family. Matsushita firmly believed that a business as large as his was responsible to help all of society prosper, and not simply for those that owned and ran the company to prosper. \n\nIn 1933 Matsushita, during the great depression, created seven “guiding principles\":\n\nThe “guiding principles” were “remarkable for their time.” The seven principles are used by Matsushita’s company today and serve as principles for other Japanese companies. Because the “guiding principles” are such powerful statements and an extension of the Japanese cultural into business, the principles have been renamed the “Seven Spirits of Matsushita\" to honor Matsushita.\n\nIn smaller companies, an entirely different corporate culture developed. Similar to the \"Meister\" system of Germany, new recruits are placed under skilled senior specialists and spend years learning every technique that they have. They are trained to develop deeper understanding of specific areas of skills instead of the broader and less deep training that those in a larger corporation receive. They learn to produce work of high quality using few simple tools and few or no advanced industrial tools.\n\nAs the modern cultures of the world continue to advance, cultural concepts either lose presence or evolve with the modern concepts. Japan is experiencing such an evolution in regard to women in the workplace and in management roles. While a main reason for this evolution is the adoption of western influence on Japanese society, Japan is being forced to support this evolution because it is grappling with a declining population and lower birth rate which will lead to a smaller workforce. \n\nAccording to “Cloud, or Silver Linings?” published in the \"Economist\" (2007), it was reported that in 2006 Japan’s birth rate was 1.32 and has been below 2.1 since the 1970s. A birthrate of 2.1 is necessary to successfully maintain current population numbers. The article described that the OECD has proven there is a “positive correlation between fertility and female employment.” Thus, if an effort is made to support females work ambitions and family desires, then women will be more willing and likely to want to have children and families and not have to sacrifice their career in the process. Japanese officials are not taking this information lightly. During his last year in office, Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi (2002-2007) began legislation to foster “financial support for families with young children and an expansion of child-care facilities (p.27).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7905363", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7905363", "title": "Jeff Shreve", "text": "Jeff Shreve\n\nJeff Shreve is an American public address announcer for the Cleveland Browns of the National Football League, University of Akron football and men's basketball, the Canton Charge of the NBA Development League and the former public address announcer of the Cleveland Cavaliers of the National Basketball Association.\n\nShreve began duties as full-time public address announcer at the beginning of the second season of existence of Gund Arena in the 1995-96 NBA season. He was the voice of the 1997 NBA All-Star Game, as well as the \"NBA at 50\" halftime ceremony honoring the 50 Greatest Players in NBA History. He was replaced by Ronnie Duncan after the 2004-05 NBA season as part of the team overhaul by new owner Dan Gilbert.\n\nDuring a memorable game in 2003, Shreve told the arena crowd in Cleveland to stay calm after Ron Artest (then of the Indiana Pacers) made obscene gestures to the audience. When Shreve advised the crowd not to throw anything onto the court, Artest, who was sitting on the scorers table, patted Shreve on the back. \n\nIn 1999, Shreve was hired as the Internal Public Address Announcer for the Cleveland Browns, and replaced Jim Mueller as the full-time stadium announcer in 2000.\n\nShreve served as the Public Address announcer for the Cleveland Rockers of the WNBA for all of their seven seasons (1997-2003). He has also been the announcer for the Mid-American Conference men's and women's basketball tournaments since 2000, and the Mid-American Conference Football Championship game since 2012.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14843120", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14843120", "title": "Juma people", "text": "Juma people\n\nThe Juma are an Indigenous people of Brazil, who live in Amazonas, along the Mucuim River, a tributary of Rio Açuã.\n\nThe Juma are also known Arara, Kagwahibm, Kagwahiph, Kagwahiv, Kavahiva, Kawahip, Kawaib, and Yumá people.\n\nIn 1998, there were only four Juma people. The Juma numbered 300 in 1940. In the 18th century, the Juma numbered between 12,000–15,000 people.\n\nJuma people speak the Juma language, which belongs to Subgroup VI of the Tupi-Guarani languages.\n"}
{"id": "3792022", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3792022", "title": "Kel Ajjer", "text": "Kel Ajjer\n\nKel Ajjer (also Kel Azjar, Kel Azjer) is a Tuareg confederation inhabiting western Libya and eastern Algeria. Their main stronghold was Ghat, followed by Ubari. The Kel Ajjer speak Tamahaq, or Northern Tuareg.\n\n"}
{"id": "6323650", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6323650", "title": "Kosov (Hasidic dynasty)", "text": "Kosov (Hasidic dynasty)\n\nKosov is the name of a Hasidic dynasty founded by Rabbi Menachem Mendel Hager of Kosiv, a town in Galicia, presently in Ukraine.\n\nThe Kosov Hasidic dynasty, Rabbi Mendel of Kosov's descendants, founded the many Kosov Hasidic sects. The Vizhnitz dynasty is the best known branch of the original Kosover dynasty. Other branches include Seret.\n\nAmong the many contemporary descendants of the Kosov dynasty, two are called \"the Kosover Rebbe\": Rabbi Shraga Feivish Hager of Borough Park, Brooklyn, where he has a substantial following and presides at his tish, and Rabbi Menachem Monderer of Jerusalem (died 2013). There is also a historic Kosover synagogue in Tzfas (Safed), Israel, which, however, is run by followers of the Biala Rebbe of Lugano, Switzerland.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31663392", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31663392", "title": "Languages of New Caledonia", "text": "Languages of New Caledonia\n\nNew Caledonia, a part of the French Republic, uses French as its official language, following the constitutional law 92-554 (June 1992). The thirty New Caledonian languages form a branch of the Southern Oceanic languages. Their speakers are known as Kanaks.\n\nAt the time of colonization, native speakers used their native language to communicate, and, in case of need, they used Bislama, an Anglo-Melanesian language whose lexical basis is essentially English. This language allowed them to communicate with shopkeepers or with the other Melanesian populations. Those native languages have been favoured by some of the missionaries to evangelize the population, the Catholic missionaries preferred the usage of French.\n\nThus, there were three languages used: French, English, and Bislama.\n\nIn 1853, a decree imposed the teaching of French in every school of the colony, and in 1863, only the teaching of French was allowed because the colonizers did not want the other languages to compete with French.\n\nNew Caledonia is constituted of numerous populations, but the vast majority is represented by Kanaks or Europeans. Nowadays, there are about 30 Melanesian languages present, and also other languages peculiar to the immigrant populations (Javanese, Vietnamese, Indonesian, Chinese, Flipino and others). Those populations have immigrated to New Caledonia during the nickel rush. The native languages of New Caledonia are part of the Austronesian family. This family extends from the island of Madagascar, Taiwan, Southeast Asia and covers almost all of the Pacific. Those languages have great differences between them (in grammar, phonetic ).\nEnglish (as a foreign language) is also present in New Caledonia, as everywhere in the world.\n\nThe forty native languages of New Caledonia form two branches of the Southern Oceanic languages, part of the Austronesian family; West Uvean is Polynesian. Their speakers are known as Kanaks. The most important are: Drehu, Nengone, Paicî, Ajië, and Xârâcùù. The other languages are spoken by a few hundred to couple thousand people and are endangered. Many Kanaks do not know their native languages very well because of the wide usage of French.\n\n\"Whites\" or \"Europeans\" from New Caledonia speak French, but as said previously, Kanaks also speak a dialect of French, the New Caledonian French, which is characterized by some phonetic particularities and some specific grammatical constructions based on native languages. Thus, this is a \"regional French\", which differs from standard French, the official language used in administration, tribunals, schools, media...\n\nThese languages have to be taken into account too because of the numerous number of immigrants in New Caledonia (Polynesians, Vietnamese, Indonesians, Filipinos ...). Nevertheless, these languages are a minority, mainly spoken in the capital, Nouméa.\n\nNew Caledonia being a part of French Republic, its official language is French, following the constitutional law 92-554 (June 1992). This law is applicable to every field (justice, tribunals, administration, schools...).\nAt the level of legislation and justice, on some occasions they may have recourse to a Melanesian language (in spoken conversation, for example).\nA series of decrees and clauses allow the usage of Melanesian languages in education in some cases. The more important law to that purpose is the \"Loi d’orientation d’Outre-Mer\" (law 2000-1207, December 2000) which stipulates that we have to respect these native languages which are a part of New Caledonian culture.\n\nSecondary school is under State authority (as opposed to nursery and primary school, which are under Provincial authority), therefore, the language in application is French. Some schools give optional native languages lessons, but it is still very rare. Nevertheless, four languages are proposed at the baccalaureate: Ajië, Drehu, Nengone and Paicî.\nThere has been controversy about the educational system, as it has been claimed, that the programs are not adjusted to the population. As a French overseas department New Caledonia is almost exclusively under the administrative control of France at the educative level and the textbooks are tailored to European students. Moreover, French is only a second language for significant minority of New Caledonians. This situation has been described as a major cause for the high rate of illiteracy and academic failure by New Caledonian students. The success rate at the baccalaureate is very low.\nSome have advocated to increase the importance of native languages as a teaching medium in school, while reducing the status French to that of a second language. Critics have pointed out, that proposal denies reality as French is the predominant native language among New Caledonian students.\n"}
{"id": "56137566", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56137566", "title": "Lewu language", "text": "Lewu language\n\nLewu 乐舞 is an unclassified extinct Loloish language of Jingdong Yi Autonomous County, Yunnan, China. The Lewu are officially classified by the Chinese government as ethnic Yao people.\n\nAccording to the \"Jingdong County Almanac\" (1994:519), ethnic Yao numbered 3,889 individuals in 1990, and lived mainly in Chaqing 岔箐 and Dasongshu 大松树 Villages of Taizhong Township 太忠乡. Yao language speakers, known as the Lewu Yao 乐舞瑶族, are found in Puya Village 普牙村, Chaqing Township 岔箐乡 (\"Jingdong County Ethnic Gazetteer\" 2012:144).\n\nLewu may have been related to the Lawu language of Xinping County, Yunnan, but classification remains uncertain due to the paucity of data.\n\nA word list of the Lewu Yao language is transcribed using pinyin in the \"Jingdong County Ethnic Gazetteer\" (2012:144-145). The language is already extinct, and was recorded in 1985 from 85-year-old Zhu Zhaojin 祝兆金 of Puya Village 普牙村, who could remember only some words.\n\n"}
{"id": "9947244", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9947244", "title": "Masks among Eskimo peoples", "text": "Masks among Eskimo peoples\n\nMasks among Eskimo peoples served a variety of functions. Masks were made out of driftwood, animal skins, bones and feathers. They were often painted using bright colors. There are archeological miniature maskettes made of walrus ivory, coming from early Paleo-Eskimo and from early Dorset culture period.\n\nDespite some similarities in the cultures of the Eskimo peoples, their cultural diversity makes it hard to generalise how Eskimos and Inuit used masks. The sustenance, mythology, soul concepts, even the language of the different communities were often very different.\n\nArcheological masks have been found from early Paleo-Eskimo and from early Dorset culture period. It is believed that these masks served several functions including being in rituals representing animals in personalized form; being used by shaman in ceremonies relating to spirits (as in the case of a wooden mask from southwestern Alaska); it is also suggested that they could be worn during song contest ceremonials.\n\nAlthough beliefs about unity between human and animal did not extend to that of absolute interchangeability, several Eskimo peoples had sophisticated soul concepts (including variants of soul dualism) that linked living humans, their ancestors, and their prey. Besides synchronical beliefs, there were also notions of unity between human and animal, and myths about an ancient time when the animal could take on human form at will. Traditional \"transformation mask\"s reflected this unity. Ritual ceremonies could enable the community to enact these stories with the help of masks, sometimes with the masked person representing the animal.\n\nThe Yup'ik are Eskimos of Western Alaska whose masks vary enormously but are characterised by great invention. They differ in size from forehead and finger 'maskettes' to enormous constructions that dancers need external supports to perform with. Many of these masks were used almost as stage props, some which imbued the dancer with the spirit that they represented - and most were often destroyed after use. Others represented animal people, \"(yuit)\", and insects, berries, plants, ice and objects of everyday life.\n\nEskimo groups comprise a huge area stretching from Siberia through Alaska and Northern Canada (including Nunatsiavut in Labrador and Nunavik in Quebec) to Greenland. The term \"Eskimo\" has fallen out of favour in Canada and Greenland, where it is considered pejorative and the term \"Inuit\" has become more common. However, \"Eskimo\" is still considered acceptable among Alaska Natives of Yupik and Inupiat (Inuit) heritage, and is preferred over \"Inuit\" as a collective reference.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15673643", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15673643", "title": "Nehanda Abiodun", "text": "Nehanda Abiodun\n\nCheri Laverne Dalton (born 1950 in New York City), also known as Nehanda Isoke Abiodun, is a black American rap music activist and fugitive from justice, currently living in Cuba. Dalton is wanted by the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) for Violation of RICO Statute; Interference with Interstate Commerce by Robbery; Obstruction of Justice; Armed Bank Robbery; Bank Robbery Killings; and Aiding and Abetting.\n\nThe United States government also charged Dalton in connection with convicted murderer Assata Shakur's escape from prison, along with Susan Rosenberg.\n\nDalton was active in the New African independence struggle in the U.S. and considered herself a citizen of the Republic of New Afrika.\n\nBorn Cheri Dalton in New York City in 1950, she began her activist work as a child. At the age of ten, she was a tenant organizer. Dalton graduated from Columbia University in New York in 1972.\n\nIn 1978, Dalton began using the alias \"Nehanda Abiodun.\" She has also used the aliases Nahanda Abiodun, Nahanda Obafemi, Nahanda Obatemi, Cheri Cotton, Betty Carter, Betty W. Carter, Elizabeth Carter, Laverne Dalton, Laverne Cheri Dalton, and \"Flame\".\n\nShe later worked with the National Black Human Rights Coalition, and later to help heal drug addicts at the Black Acupuncture Association of North America with Mutulu Shakur.\n\nShe was later sued for malpractice, and a warrant was put out for her arrest.\n\nDalton is among those linked by U.S. authorities to Assata Shakur's 1979 escape from prison. She is also wanted for a string of robberies, including the robbing of a Brink's Armored Car in New York in 1981.\n\nShe has lived in Havana, Cuba since about 1990. She is a rap music activist there. She has given advice about African-American history, poetry, and world politics to up-and-coming Cuban hip-hop artists such as Yosmel Sarrias and Maigel Entenza Jaramillo of Anónimo Consejo.\n\nShe states \"rap music is...the voice of protest...[with which] we can educate and organize around the world. It puts a whole different light on the word globalization...Wherever you go...in the world, from New Zealand to Timbuktu, there are rappers. Wherever you go! And once you step out of the U.S., a large part of that global community of hip hoppers are progressive. Seriously, because most of it comes from the indigenous people of that particular place\".\n"}
{"id": "24549287", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24549287", "title": "Ngcoya clan", "text": "Ngcoya clan\n\nThe Ngcoya people are part of the Pondo (Mpondo) people of the Eastern Cape in South Africa.\n"}
{"id": "28978421", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28978421", "title": "Nobility", "text": "Nobility\n\nNobility is a social class in aristocracy, normally ranked immediately under royalty, that possesses more acknowledged privileges and higher social status than most other classes in a society and with membership thereof typically being hereditary. The privileges associated with nobility may constitute substantial advantages over or relative to non-nobles, or may be largely honorary (e.g., precedence), and vary by country and era. The Medieval chivalric motto \"noblesse oblige\", meaning literally \"nobility obligates\", explains that privileges carry a lifelong obligation of duty to uphold various social responsibilities of, e.g., honorable behavior, customary service, or leadership roles or positions, that lives on by a familial or kinship bond.\n\nMembership in the nobility and the prerogatives thereof have been historically acknowledged or regulated by a monarch or government and thereby distinguished from other sectors of a nation's upper class wherein wealth, lifestyle, or affiliation may be the salient markers of membership. Nobility per se has nonetheless rarely constituted a closed caste; acquisition of sufficient power, wealth, military prowess, or royal favour has enabled commoners with varying frequency to ascend into the nobility.\n\nThere is often a variety of ranks within the noble class. Legal recognition of nobility has been more common in monarchies, but nobility also existed in such regimes as the Dutch Republic (1581–1795), the Republic of Genoa (1005–1815), the Republic of Venice (697–1797), and the Old Swiss Confederacy (1300–1798), and remains part of the legal social structure of some non-hereditary regimes, e.g., Channel Islands, San Marino and the Vatican City in Europe.\n\nHereditary titles often distinguish nobles from non-nobles, although in many nations most of the nobility have been un-titled, and a hereditary title need not ipso facto indicate nobility (e.g., vidame). Some countries have had non-hereditary nobility, such as the Empire of Brazil or life peers in the United Kingdom.\n\nThe term derives from Latin \"nobilitas\", the abstract noun of the adjective \"nobilis\" (\"well-known, famous, notable\"). In ancient Roman society, \"nobiles\" originated as an informal designation for the political governing class who had allied interests, including both patricians and plebeian families \"(gentes)\" with an ancestor who had risen to the consulship through his own merit (see \"novus homo\", \"new man\").\n\nIn modern usage, \"nobility\" is applied to the highest social class in pre-modern societies, excepting the ruling dynasty. In the feudal system (in Europe and elsewhere), the nobility were generally those who held a fief, often land or office, under vassalage, i.e., in exchange for allegiance and various, mainly military, services to a suzerain, who might be a higher-ranking nobleman or a monarch. It rapidly came to be seen as a hereditary caste, sometimes associated with a right to bear a hereditary title and, for example in pre-revolutionary France, enjoying fiscal and other privileges.\n\nWhile noble status formerly conferred significant privileges in most jurisdictions, by the 21st century it had become a largely honorary dignity in most societies, although a few, residual privileges may still be preserved legally (e.g., Netherlands, Spain, UK) and some Asian, Pacific and African cultures continue to attach considerable significance to formal hereditary rank or titles. (Compare the entrenched position and leadership expectations of the nobility of the Kingdom of Tonga.)\n\nNobility is a historical, social and often legal notion, differing from high socio-economic status in that the latter is mainly based on income, possessions or lifestyle. Being wealthy or influential cannot \"ipso facto\" make one noble, nor are all nobles wealthy or influential (aristocratic families have lost their fortunes in various ways, and the concept of the 'poor nobleman' is almost as old as nobility itself).\n\nVarious republics, including former Iron Curtain countries, Greece, Mexico, and Austria have expressly abolished the conferral and use of titles of nobility for their citizens. This is distinct from countries which have not abolished the right to inherit titles, but which do not grant legal recognition or protection to them, such as Germany and Italy, although Germany recognizes their use as part of the legal surname. Still other countries and authorities allow their use, but forbid attachment of any privilege thereto, e.g., Finland, Norway and the European Union, while French law also protects lawful titles against usurpation.\n\nAlthough many societies have a privileged upper class with substantial wealth and power, the status is not necessarily hereditary and does not entail a distinct legal status, nor differentiated forms of address.\nNot all of the benefits of nobility derived from noble status \"per se\". Usually privileges were granted or recognised by the monarch in association with possession of a specific title, office or estate. Most nobles' wealth derived from one or more estates, large or small, that might include fields, pasture, orchards, timberland, hunting grounds, streams, etc. It also included infrastructure such as castle, well and mill to which local peasants were allowed some access, although often at a price. Nobles were expected to live \"nobly\", that is, from the proceeds of these possessions. Work involving manual labour or subordination to those of lower rank (with specific exceptions, such as in military or ecclesiastic service) was either forbidden (as derogation from noble status) or frowned upon socially. On the other hand, membership in the nobility was usually a prerequisite for holding offices of trust in the realm and for career promotion, especially in the military, at court and often the higher functions in the government, judiciary and church.\n\nPrior to the French Revolution, European nobles typically commanded tribute in the form of entitlement to cash rents or usage taxes, labour or a portion of the annual crop yield from commoners or nobles of lower rank who lived or worked on the noble's manor or within his \"seigneurial\" domain. In some countries, the local lord could impose restrictions on such a commoner's movements, religion or legal undertakings. Nobles exclusively enjoyed the privilege of hunting. In France, nobles were exempt from paying the \"taille\", the major direct tax. Peasants were not only bound to the nobility by dues and services, but the exercise of their rights was often also subject to the jurisdiction of courts and police from whose authority the actions of nobles were entirely or partially exempt. In some parts of Europe the right of private war long remained the privilege of every noble.\n\nDuring the early Renaissance, duelling established the status of a respectable gentleman, and was an accepted manner of resolving disputes.\n\nSince the end of World War I the hereditary nobility entitled to special rights has largely been abolished in the Western World as intrinsically discriminatory, and discredited as inferior in efficiency to individual meritocracy in the allocation of societal resources. Nobility came to be associated with social rather than legal privilege, expressed in a general expectation of deference from those of lower rank. By the 21st century even that deference had become increasingly minimised.\n\nIn France, a \"seigneurie\" (lordship) might include one or more manors surrounded by land and villages subject to a noble's prerogatives and disposition. \"Seigneuries\" could be bought, sold or mortgaged. If erected by the crown into, e.g., a barony or countship, it became legally entailed for a specific family, which could use it as their title. Yet most French nobles were untitled (\"seigneur of Montagne\" simply meant ownership of that lordship but not, if one was not otherwise noble, the right to use a title of nobility, as commoners often purchased lordships). Only a member of the nobility who owned a countship was allowed, \"ipso facto\", to style himself as its \"comte\", although this restriction came to be increasingly ignored as the \"ancien régime\" drew to its close.\n\nIn other parts of Europe, sovereign rulers arrogated to themselves the exclusive prerogative to act as \"fons honorum\" within their realms. For example, in the United Kingdom royal letters patent are necessary to obtain a title of the peerage, which also carries nobility and formerly a seat in the House of Lords, but never came without automatic entail of land nor rights to the local peasants' output.\n\nNobility might be either inherited or conferred by a \"fons honorum\". It is usually an acknowledged preeminence that is hereditary, i.e. the status descends exclusively to some or all of the legitimate, and usually male-line, descendants of a nobleman. In this respect, the nobility as a class has always been much more extensive than the primogeniture-based titled nobility, which included peerages in France and in the United Kingdom, \"grandezas\" in Portugal and Spain, and some noble titles in Belgium, Italy, the Netherlands, Prussia and Scandinavia. In Russia, Scandinavia and non-Prussian Germany, titles usually descended to all male-line descendants of the original titleholder, including females. In Spain, noble titles are now equally heritable by females and males. Noble estates, on the other hand, gradually came to descend by primogeniture in much of western Europe aside from Germany. In Eastern Europe, by contrast, with the exception of a few Hungarian estates, they usually descended to all sons or even all children\n\nIn France, some wealthy \"bourgeois\", most particularly the members of the various \"parlements\", were ennobled by the king, constituting the \"noblesse de robe\". The old nobility of landed or knightly origin, the \"noblesse d'épée\", increasingly resented the influence and pretensions of this \"parvenu\" nobility. In the last years of the \"ancien régime\" the old nobility pushed for restrictions of certain offices and orders of chivalry to noblemen who could demonstrate that their lineage had extended \"quarterings\", i.e. several generations of noble ancestry, to be eligible for offices and favors at court along with nobles of medieval descent, although historians such as William Doyle have disputed this so-called \"Aristocratic Reaction\". Various court and military positions were reserved by tradition for nobles who could \"prove\" an ancestry of at least \"seize quartiers\" (16 quarterings), indicating exclusively noble descent (as displayed, ideally, in the family's coat of arms) extending back five generations (all 16 great-great grandparents).\nThis illustrates the traditional link in many countries between heraldry and nobility; in those countries where heraldry is used, nobles have almost always been armigerous, and have used heraldry to demonstrate their ancestry and family history. However, heraldry has never been restricted to the noble classes in most countries, and being armigerous does not necessarily demonstrate nobility. Scotland, however, is an exception. In a number of recent cases in Scotland the Lord Lyon King of Arms has controversially (vis-à-vis Scotland's Salic law) granted the arms and allocated the chiefships of medieval noble families to female-line descendants of lords, even when they were not of noble lineage in the male line, while persons of legitimate male-line descent may still survive (e.g. the modern Chiefs of Clan MacLeod).\n\nIn some nations, hereditary titles, as distinct from noble rank, were not always recognised in law, e.g., Poland's \"Szlachta\". European ranks of nobility lower than baron or its equivalent, are commonly referred to as the petty nobility, although baronets of the British Isles are deemed titled gentry. Most nations traditionally had an untitled lower nobility in addition to titled nobles. An example is the landed gentry of the British Isles. Unlike England's gentry, the \"Junkers\" of Germany, the \"noblesse de robe\" of France, the \"hidalgos\" of Spain and the \"nobili\" of Italy were explicitly acknowledged by the monarchs of those countries as members of the nobility, although untitled. In Scandinavia, the Benelux nations and Spain there are still untitled as well as titled families recognised in law as noble.\n\nIn Hungary members of the nobility always theoretically enjoyed the same rights. In practice, however, a noble family's financial assets largely defined its significance. Medieval Hungary's concept of nobility originated in the notion that nobles were \"free men\", eligible to own land. This basic standard explains why the noble population was relatively large, although the economic status of its members varied widely. Untitled nobles were not infrequently wealthier than titled families, while considerable differences in wealth were also to be found within the titled nobility. The custom of granting titles was introduced to Hungary in the 16th century by the House of Habsburg. Historically, once nobility was granted, if a nobleman served the monarch well he might obtain the title of baron, and might later be elevated to the rank of count. As in other countries of post-medieval central Europe, hereditary titles were not attached to a particular land or estate but to the noble family itself, so that all patrilineal descendants shared a title of baron or count (cf. peerage). Neither nobility nor titles could be transmitted through women.\n\nSome con artists sell fake titles of nobility, often with impressive-looking documentation. This may be illegal, depending on local law. They are more often illegal in countries that actually have nobilities, such as European monarchies. In the United States, such commerce may constitute actionable fraud rather than criminal usurpation of an exclusive right to use of any given title by an established class.\n\n\"Aristocrat\" and aristocracy, in modern usage, refer colloquially and broadly to persons who inherit elevated social status, whether due to membership in the (formerly) official nobility or the monied upper class.\n\n\"Blue blood\" is an English idiom recorded since 1834 for noble birth or descent; it is also known as a translation of the Spanish phrase \"sangre azul\", which described the Spanish royal family and other high nobility who claimed to be of Visigothic descent, in contrast to the Moors. The idiom originates from ancient and medieval societies of Europe and distinguishes an upper class (whose superficial veins appeared blue through their untanned skin) from a working class of the time. The latter consisted mainly of agricultural peasants who spent most of their time working outdoors and thus had tanned skin, through which superficial veins appear less prominently.\n\nRobert Lacey explains the genesis of the blue blood concept:\nIt was the Spaniards who gave the world the notion that an aristocrat's blood is not red but blue. The Spanish nobility started taking shape around the ninth century in classic military fashion, occupying land as warriors on horseback. They were to continue the process for more than five hundred years, clawing back sections of the peninsula from its Moorish occupiers, and a nobleman demonstrated his pedigree by holding up his sword arm to display the filigree of blue-blooded veins beneath his pale skin—proof that his birth had not been contaminated by the dark-skinned enemy.\nEuropean nobility originated in the feudal/seignorial system that arose in Europe during the Middle Ages. Originally, knights or nobles were mounted warriors who swore allegiance to their sovereign and promised to fight for him in exchange for an allocation of land (usually together with serfs living thereon). During the period known as the Military Revolution, nobles gradually lost their role in raising and commanding private armies, as many nations created cohesive national armies.\nThis was coupled with a loss of the socio-economic power of the nobility, owing to the economic changes of the Renaissance and the growing economic importance of the merchant classes, which increased still further during the Industrial Revolution. In countries where the nobility was the dominant class, the \"bourgeoisie\" gradually grew in power; a rich city merchant came to be more influential than a nobleman, and the latter sometimes sought inter-marriage with families of the former to maintain their noble lifestyles.\n\nHowever, in many countries at this time, the nobility retained substantial political importance and social influence: for instance, the United Kingdom's government was dominated by the nobility until the middle of the 19th century. Thereafter the powers of the nobility were progressively reduced by legislation. However, until 1999, all hereditary peers were entitled to sit and vote in the House of Lords. Since then, only 92 of them have this entitlement, of whom 90 are elected by the hereditary peers as a whole to represent the peerage.\n\nThe countries with the highest proportion of nobles were Castile (probably 10%), Polish–Lithuanian Commonwealth (15% of an 18th-century population of 800,000), Spain (722,000 in 1768 which was 7–8% of the entire population) and other countries with lower percentages, such as Russia in 1760 with 500,000–600,000 nobles (2–3% of the entire population), and pre-revolutionary France where there were no more than 300,000 prior to 1789, which was 1% of the population (although some scholars believe this figure is an overestimate). In 1718 Sweden had between 10,000 and 15,000 nobles, which was 0.5% of the population. In Germany 0.01%.\n\nIn the Kingdom of Hungary nobles made up 5% of the population. All the nobles in 18th-century Europe numbered perhaps 3–4 million out of a total of 170–190 million inhabitants.\n\n \nMany peoples and nations have had noble or aristocratic classes of various kinds: these are so diverse that there may be no clear equivalents in other cultures' histories, and care in translation and context is important to minimize misconstrual, in particular when contrasting concepts and terminology with those derived from Western feudalism.\n\nIn East Asia the system was often modelled on imperial China, the leading culture. Emperors conferred titles of nobility. Imperial descendants formed the highest class of ancient Chinese nobility, their status based upon the rank of the empress or concubine from which they descend maternally (as emperors were polygamous). Numerous titles such as \"Taizi\" (crown prince), and equivalents of \"prince\" were accorded, and due to complexities in dynastic rules, rules were introduced for Imperial descendants. The titles of the junior princes were gradually lowered in rank by each generation while the senior heir continued to inherit their father's titles.\n\nIt was a custom in China for the new dynasty to ennoble and enfeoff a member of the dynasty which they overthrew with a title of nobility and a fief of land so that they could offer sacrifices to their ancestors, in addition to members of other preceding dynasties.\n\nChina had a feudal system in the Shang and Zhou dynasties, which gradually gave way to a more bureaucratic one beginning in the Qin dynasty (221 BC). This continued through the Song dynasty, and by its peak power shifted from nobility to bureaucrats.\n\nThis development was gradual and generally only completed in full by the Song dynasty. In the Han dynasty, for example, even though noble titles were no longer given to those other than the Emperor's relatives, the fact that the process of selecting officials was mostly based on a vouching system by current officials as officials usually vouched for their own sons or those of other officials meant that a de facto aristocracy continued to exist. This process was further deepened during the Three Kingdoms period with the introduction of the Nine-rank system.\n\nBy the Sui dynasty, however, the institution of the Imperial examination system marked the transformation of a power shift towards a full bureaucracy, though the process would not be truly completed until the Song dynasty.\n\nTitles of nobility became symbolic along with a stipend while governance of the country shifted to scholar officials.\n\nIn the Qing dynasty titles of nobility were still granted by the emperor, but served merely as honorifics based on a loose system of favors to the Qing emperor.\n\nUnder a centralized system, the empire's governance was the responsibility of the Confucian-educated scholar-officials and the local gentry, while the literati were accorded gentry status. For male citizens, advancement in status was possible via garnering the top three positions in imperial examinations.\n\nThe Qing appointed the Ming imperial descendants to the title of Marquis of Extended Grace.\n\nThe oldest held continuous noble title in Chinese history was that held by the descendants of Confucius, as Duke Yansheng, which was renamed as the Sacrificial Official to Confucius in 1935 by the Republic of China. The title is held by Kung Tsui-chang. There is also a \"Sacrificial Official to Mencius\" for a descendant of Mencius, a \"Sacrificial Official to Zengzi\" for a descendant of Zengzi, and a \"Sacrificial Official to Yan Hui\" for a descendant of Yan Hui.\n\nThe bestowal of titles was abolished upon the establishment of the People's Republic of China in 1949, as part of a larger effort to remove feudal influences and practises from Chinese society.\n\nIn some Islamic countries, there are no definite noble titles (titles of hereditary rulers being distinct from those of hereditary intermediaries between monarchs and commoners). Persons who can trace legitimate descent from Muhammad or the clans of Quraysh, as can members of several present or formerly reigning dynasties, are widely regarded as belonging to the ancient, hereditary Islamic nobility. In some Islamic countries they inherit (through mother or father) hereditary titles, although without any other associated privilege, e.g., variations of the title \"Sayyid\" and \"Sharif\". Regarded as more religious than the general population, many people turn to them for clarification or guidance in religious matters.\n\nIn Iran, historical titles of the nobility including \"Mirza\", \"Khan\", \"ed-Dowleh\" and \"Shahzada\" (\"Son of a Shah), are now no longer recognised. An aristocratic family is now recognised by their family name, often derived from the post held by their ancestors, considering the fact that family names in Iran only appeared in the beginning of the 20th century.\nSultans have been an integral part of Islamic history .\n\nDuring the Ottoman Empire in the Imperial Court and the provinces there were many Ottoman titles and appellations forming a somewhat unusual and complex system in comparison with the other Islamic countries. The bestowal of noble and aristocratic titles was widespread across the empire even after its fall by independent monarchs. One of the most elaborate examples is that of the Egyptian aristocracy's largest clan, the Abaza family.\n\nMedieval Japan developed a feudal system similar to the European system, where land was held in exchange for military service. The \"daimyō\" class, or hereditary landowning nobles, held great socio-political power. As in Europe, they commanded private armies made up of \"samurai\", an elite warrior class; for long periods, these held the real power without a real central government, and often plunged the country into a state of civil war. The \"daimyō\" class can be compared to European peers, and the samurai to European knights, but important differences exist.\n\nFeudal title and rank were abolished during the Meiji Restoration in 1868, and was replaced by the \"kazoku\", a five-rank peerage system after the British example, which granted seats in the upper house of the Imperial Diet; this ended in 1947 following Japan's defeat in World War II.\n\nLike other Southeast Asian countries, many regions in the Philippines have indigenous nobility, partially influenced by Hindu, Chinese, and Islamic custom. Since ancient times, \"Datu\" was the common title of a chief or monarch of the many pre-colonial principalities and sovereign dominions throughout the isles; in some areas the term \"Apo\" was also used. With the titles \"Sultan\" and \"Rajah\", \"Datu\" (and its Malay cognate, \"Datok\") are currently used in some parts of the Philippines, Indonesia, Malaysia and Brunei. These titles are the rough equivalents of European titles, albeit dependent on the actual wealth and prestige of the bearer.\n\nUpon the islands' Christianisation, the datus retained governance of their territories despite annexation to the Spanish Empire. In a law signed 11 June 1594, King Philip II of Spain ordered that the indigenous rulers continue to receive the same honours and privileges accorded them prior their conversion to Catholicism. The baptised nobility subsequently coalesced into the exclusive, landed ruling class of the lowlands known as the \"Principalía\".\n\nOn 22 March 1697, King Charles II of Spain confirmed the privileges granted by his predecessors (in Title VII, Book VI of the Laws of the Indies) to indigenous nobilities of the Crown colonies, including the Principales of the Philippines, and extended to them and to their descendants the preeminence and honors customarily attributed to the Hidalgos of Castile.\n\nThe Laws of the Indies and other pertinent Royal Decrees were enforced in the Philippines and benefited many indigenous nobles. It can be seen very clearly and irrefutably that, during the colonial period, indigenous chiefs were equated with the Spanish Hidalgos, and the most resounding proof of the application of this comparison is the General Military Archive in Segovia, where the qualifications of “Nobility” (found in the Service Records) are attributed to those Filipinos who were admitted to the Spanish Military Academies and whose ancestors were caciques, encomenderos, notable Tagalogs, chieftains, governors or those who held positions in the municipal administration or government in all different regions of the large islands of the Archipelago, or of the many small islands of which it is composed. In the context of the ancient tradition and norms of Castilian nobility, all descendants of a noble are considered noble, regardless of fortune.\n\nAt the \"Real Academia de la Historia\", there is a substantial number of records providing reference to the Philippine Islands, and while most parts correspond to the history of these islands, the \"Academia\" did not exclude among its documents the presence of many genealogical records. The archives of the \"Academia\" and its royal stamp recognized the appointments of hundreds of natives of the Philippines who, by virtue of their social position, occupied posts in the administration of the territories and were classified as \"nobles\". The presence of these notables demonstrates the cultural concern of Spain in those Islands to prepare the natives and the collaboration of these in the government of the Archipelago. This aspect of Spanish rule in the Philippines appears much more strongly implemented than in the Americas. Hence in the Philippines, the local nobility, by reason of charge accorded to their social class, acquired greater importance than in the Indies of the New World.\n\nWith the recognition of the Spanish monarchs came the privilege of being addressed as Don or Doña. - a mark of esteem and distinction in Europe reserved for a person of noble or royal status during the colonial period. Other honors and high regard were also accorded to the Christianized Datus by the Spanish Empire. For example, the Gobernadorcillos (elected leader of the Cabezas de Barangay or the Christianized Datus) and Filipino officials of justice received the greatest consideration from the Spanish Crown officials. The colonial officials were under obligation to show them the honor corresponding to their respective duties. They were allowed to sit in the houses of the Spanish Provincial Governors, and in any other places. They were not left to remain standing. It was not permitted for Spanish Parish Priests to treat these Filipino nobles with less consideration.\n\nThe Gobernadorcillos exercised the command of the towns. They were Port Captains in coastal towns. They also had the rights and powers to elect assistants and several lieutenants and \"alguaciles\", proportionate in number to the inhabitants of the town.\n\nThe recognition of the rights and privileges accorded to the Filipino Principalía as Hijosdalgos of Castile seems to facilitate entrance of Filipino nobles into institutions of under the Spanish Crown, either civil or religious, which required proofs of nobility. However, to see such recognition as an approximation or comparative estimation of rank or status might not be correct since in reality, although the principales were vassals of the Crown, their rights as sovereign in their former dominions were guaranteed by the Laws of the Indies, more particularly the Royal Decree of Philip II of 11 June 1594, which Charles II confirmed for the purpose stated above in order to satisfy the requirements of the existing laws in the Peninsula.\n\nIt must be recalled that ever since the beginning of the colonialization, the conquistador Miguel López de Legazpi did not strip the ancient sovereign rulers of the Archipelago (who vowed allegiance to the Spanish Crown) of their legitimate rights. Many of them accepted the Catholic religion and were his allies from the very beginning. He only demanded from these local rulers vassalage to the Spanish Crown, replacing the similar overlordship, which previously existed in a few cases, e.g., Sultanate of Brunei's overlordship of the Kingdom of Maynila. Other independent polities which were not vassals to other States, e.g., Confederation of Madja-as and the Rajahnate of Cebu, were more of Protectorates/Suzerainties having had alliances with the Spanish Crown before the Kingdom took total control of most parts of the Archipelago. An interesting question remains after the cessession of the Spanish rule in the Philippines, that is, what is the equivalent of the rank of the Filipino Principalía, freed from vassalage yet not able to exercise their sovereignty within the democratic society in the Archipelago?\n\nOne logical conclusion would be their ancient Royal and noble title as Datu — the historical title of local nobles of ancient domains respected and protected by the Indigenous Peoples' Rights Act of 1997, the existing pertinent law of the Philippines; and by a related international legislation, the Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples. Retaining as a subsidiary title the Hidalguía of Castile — their former protector State — without prejudice to their ancestral title, appears most suitable to the hispanized Filipino nobles. Besides, as stated in the above-mentioned Royal Decree of Charles II, the ancient nobility of the Filipino Principales \"is still retained and acknowledged\".\n\nJust like the deposed royal families elsewhere in the world, which still lay claim to their hereditary rights as pretenders to the former thrones of their ancestors, the descendants of the Principalía have the same de iure claims to the historical domains of their forebears.\n\nAfrica has a plethora of ancient lineages in its various constituent nations. Some, such as the numerous \"sharifian\" families of North Africa, the Keita dynasty of Mali, the Solomonic dynasty of Ethiopia and the Sherbro Tucker clan of Sierra Leone, claim descent from notables from outside of the continent. Most, such as those composed of the descendants of Shaka and Moshoeshoe of Southern Africa, belong to peoples that have been resident in the continent for millennia. Generally their royal or noble status is recognized by and derived from the authority of traditional custom. A number of them also enjoy either a constitutional or a statutory recognition of their high social positions.\n\nEthiopia has a nobility that is almost as old as the country itself. Throughout the history of the Ethiopian Empire most of the titles of nobility have been tribal or military in nature. However the Ethiopian nobility resembled its European counterparts in some respects; until 1855, when Tewodros II ended the \"Zemene Mesafint\" its aristocracy was organised similarly to the feudal system in Europe during the Middle Ages. For more than seven centuries, Ethiopia (or Abyssinia, as it was then known) was made up of many small kingdoms, principalities, emirates and imamates, which owed their allegiance to the \"nəgusä nägäst\" (literally \"King of Kings\"). Despite its being a Christian monarchy, various Muslim states paid tribute to the emperors of Ethiopia for centuries: including the Adal Sultanate, the Emirate of Harar, and the Awsa sultanate.\n\nEthiopian nobility were divided into two different categories: \"Mesafint\" (\"prince\"), the hereditary nobility that formed the upper echelon of the ruling class; and the \"Mekwanin\" (\"governor\") who were appointed nobles, often of humble birth, who formed the bulk of the nobility (\"cf.\" the \"Ministerialis\" of the Holy Roman Empire). In Ethiopia there were titles of nobility among the \"Mesafint\" borne by those at the apex of medieval Ethiopian society. The highest royal title (after that of emperor) was \"Negus\" (\"king\") which was held by hereditary governors of the provinces of Begemder, Shewa, Gojjam, and Wollo. The next highest seven titles were \"Ras\", \"Dejazmach\", \"Fit'awrari\", \"Grazmach\", \"Qenyazmach\", \"Azmach\" and \"Balambaras\". The title of \"Le'ul Ras\" was accorded to the heads of various noble families and cadet branches of the Solomonic dynasty, such as the princes of Gojjam, Tigray, and Selalle. The heirs of the \"Le'ul Rases\" were titled \"Le'ul Dejazmach\", indicative of the higher status they enjoyed relative to \"Dejazmaches\" who were not of the blood imperial. There were various hereditary titles in Ethiopia: including that of \"Jantirar\", reserved for males of the family of Empress Menen Asfaw who ruled over the mountain fortress of Ambassel in Wollo; \"Wagshum\", a title created for the descendants of the deposed Zagwe dynasty; and \"Shum Agame\", held by the descendants of \"Dejazmach\" Sabagadis, who ruled over the Agame district of Tigray. The vast majority of titles borne by nobles were not, however, hereditary.\n\nDespite being largely dominated by Christian elements, some Muslims obtained \"entrée\" into the Ethiopian nobility as part of their quest for aggrandizement during the 1800s. To do so they were generally obliged to abandon their faith and some are believed to have feigned conversion to Christianity for the sake of acceptance by the old Christian aristocratic families. One such family, the Wara Seh (more commonly called the \"Yejju dynasty\") converted to Christianity and eventually wielded power for over a century, ruling with the sanction of the Solomonic emperors. The last such Muslim noble to join the ranks of Ethiopian society was Mikael of Wollo who converted, was made \"Negus\" of Wollo, and later King of Zion, and even married into the Imperial family. He lived to see his son, Iyasu V, inherit the throne in 1913—only to be deposed in 1916 because of his conversion to Islam.\n\nThe nobility in Madagascar are known as the \"Andriana\". In much of Madagascar, before French colonization of the island, the Malagasy people were organised into a rigid social caste system, within which the \"Andriana\" exercised both spiritual and political leadership. The word \"Andriana\" has been used to denote nobility in various ethnicities in Madagascar: including the \"Merina\", the \"Betsileo\", the \"Betsimisaraka\", the \"Tsimihety\", the \"Bezanozano\", the \"Antambahoaka\" and the \"Antemoro\".\n\nThe word \"Andriana\" has often formed part of the names of Malagasy kings, princes and nobles. Linguistic evidence suggests that the origin of the title \"Andriana\" is traceable back to an ancient Javanese title of nobility. Before the colonization by France in the 1890s, the \"Andriana\" held various privileges, including land ownership, preferment for senior government posts, free labor from members of lower classes, the right to have their tombs constructed within town limits, etc. The \"Andriana\" rarely married outside their caste: a high-ranking woman who married a lower-ranking man took on her husband's lower rank, but a high-ranking man marrying a woman of lower rank did not forfeit his status, although his children could not inherit his rank or property (\"cf.\" morganatic marriage).\n\nIn 2011, the Council of Kings and Princes of Madagascar endorsed the revival of a Christian \"Andriana\" monarchy that would blend modernity and tradition.\n\nContemporary Nigeria has a class of traditional notables whose titles are tied to those of its reigning monarchs, the Nigerian traditional rulers. Though their functions are largely ceremonial, their titles are often centuries old and are usually vested in the members of historically prominent families in the various subnational kingdoms of the country.\n\nMembership of initiatory societies that have inalienable functions within the kingdoms is also a common feature of Nigerian nobility, particularly among the southern tribes, where such figures as the \"Ogboni\" of the \"Yoruba\", the \"Nze na Ozo\" of the \"Igbo\" and the \"Ekpe\" of the \"Efik\" are some of the most famous examples. Although many of their traditional functions have become dormant due to the advent of modern governance, their members retain precedence of a traditional nature and are especially prominent during festivals.\n\nOutside of this, many of the traditional nobles of Nigeria continue to serve as privy counsellors and viceroys in the service of their traditional sovereigns in a symbolic continuation of the way that their titled ancestors and predecessors did during the pre-colonial and colonial periods. Many of them are also members of the country's political elite due to their not being covered by the prohibition from involvement in politics that governs the activities of the traditional rulers.\n\nHolding a chieftaincy title, either of the traditional variety (which involves taking part in ritual re-enactments of your title's history during annual festivals, roughly akin to a British peerage) or the honorary variety (which does not involve the said re-enactments, roughly akin to a knighthood), grants an individual the right to use the word \"chief\" as a pre-nominal honorific while in Nigeria.\n\nIn addition to a variety of indigenous peoples (such as the \"Aymara\" and the \"Quechua\", who have long traditions of being led by nobles called \"Apu Mallkus\" and \"Mallkus\"), tribal connections exist among a number of other groups. Peerage traditions dating to the colonial period of such countries as Brazil, Cuba and Mexico have left noble families in each of them that have ancestral ties to those nations' native tribes, while such figures as the Afro-Bolivian king and the high priestess of the \"Ile Maroia Laji\" sect of Brazilian \"Candomblé\" trace their ancestries to and derive their prestige from ancient monarchs and nobles of the pre-colonial African continent.\n\nThe nobility in Brazil began during the colonial era with the Portuguese nobility. When Brazil became a united kingdom with Portugal in 1815, the first Brazilian titles of nobility were granted by the King of Portugal, Brazil and the Algarves.\n\nWith the independence of Brazil in 1822 as a constitutional monarchy the titles of nobility initiated by the King of Portugal were continued and new titles of nobility were created by the Emperor of Brazil. However, according to the Brazilian Constitution of 1824, the Emperor conferred titles of nobility, which were personal and therefore non-hereditary, unlike its Portuguese and Portuguese-Brazilian predecessor, being inherited exclusively to the royal titles of the Brazilian Imperial Family.\n\nDuring the existence of the Empire of Brazil 1211 noble titles were acknowledged. \nWith the proclamation of the First Brazilian Republic, in 1889, the Brazilian nobility was extinguished. It was also prohibited, under penalty of accusation of high treason and the suspension of political rights, to accept noble titles and foreign decorations without the proper permission of the State. In particular, the nobles of greater distinction, by respect and tradition, were allowed to use their titles during the republican regime. The Imperial Family also could not return to the Brazilian soil until 1921, when the Banishment Law was repealed.\n\nAmongst the Polynesians of the Pacific the \"Ali'i\" occupied the traditional place of an Aristocratic class. The Kingdoms of Hawaii, Tahiti and presently the Kingdom of Tonga were all ruled by a ruling class known as the \"Ali'i\"\n\nThe \"Ali'i\" routinely provided the kings and nobles of various Polynesian Kingdoms; including the Kingdom of Hawaii prior to its dissolution 1893, and have served as a bastion of Native Hawaiian revivalism since its occurrence. In Tonga, after contact with Western nations, the traditional system of chiefs was developed into a Western-style monarchy with a hereditary class of \"barons\", the Tongans even adopting that English title as a synonym for chief.\n\nA list of noble titles for different European countries can be found at Royal and noble ranks.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8825225", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8825225", "title": "Norwegian Travellers", "text": "Norwegian Travellers\n\nNorwegian Traveller is a term that might refer to one of two ethnic minority groups in Norway:\n\n"}
{"id": "23982320", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23982320", "title": "Pnar language", "text": "Pnar language\n\nPnar (also known as Jaintia) is an Austroasiatic language spoken in India and Bangladesh.\n\nPnar has 30 phonemes: 7 vowels and 23 consonants. Other sounds listed below are phonetic realizations.\nSyllables in Pnar can consist of a single nucleic vowel. Maximally, they can include a complex onset of two consonants, a diphthong nucleus, and a coda consonant. A second type of syllable contains a syllabic nasal/trill/lateral immediately following the onset consonant. This syllabic consonant behaves as the rhyme. (Ring, 2012: 141-2)\n"}
{"id": "509246", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=509246", "title": "Public holidays in Latvia", "text": "Public holidays in Latvia\n\nThis is a list of holidays in Latvia.\n\n"}
{"id": "3100028", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3100028", "title": "Reichswald", "text": "Reichswald\n\nA Reichswald or imperial forest was a historic woodland under imperial protection and usage in the Holy Roman Empire. Notable \"Reichswälder\" include:\n\n"}
{"id": "26105", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26105", "title": "Remembrance of the Dead", "text": "Remembrance of the Dead\n\nRemembrance of the Dead () is held annually on May 4 in the Netherlands. It commemorates all civilians and members of the armed forces of the Kingdom of the Netherlands who have died in wars or peacekeeping missions since the beginning of the Second World War.\n\nSince 2011 the official text of the Memorandum for Remembrance Day on 4 May is as follows:\n\nLocal committees apply their own interpretation to the commemorations and also bear responsibility for that interpretation.\n\nUntil 1961 the commemoration only related to the Dutch victims of World War II. Since 1961, the victims of other military conflicts (such as the Indonesian National Revolution in Indonesia) and peacekeeping missions (such as in Lebanon or Bosnia) are remembered on May 4 as well.\n\nTraditionally, the main ceremonies are observed in Amsterdam at the National Monument on Dam Square. This ceremony is usually attended by members of the cabinet and the royal family, military leaders, representatives of the resistance movement and other social groups. At 20:00 two minutes of silence is observed throughout the Netherlands. Public transport is stopped as well as all other traffic. Radio and TV only broadcast the ceremonies from 19:00 until 20:30. Since 4 May 1994 flags, having hung at half-mast from 18:00, are then hoisted to the music of the Wilhelmus, the Dutch national anthem. Since 2001 the new protocol says it is allowed to let the flag hang at half-mast.\n\nThe main commemorations in Amsterdam are broadcast by the public broadcasting company NOS and there are ceremonies in other cities and places as well. Especially notable are those at the Waalsdorpervlakte near The Hague where many Dutch resistance fighters were executed during the war, and at the war cemetery Grebbeberg, which are broadcast by the commercial broadcasting companies. In many towns, before or after the two minutes of silence, people gather around a monument, listen to speeches, and lay down flowers to remember the dead.\n\nThe next day, on May 5, people celebrate the liberation of the nation from the German occupation of 1940 to 1945.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21381280", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21381280", "title": "Remunicipalization", "text": "Remunicipalization\n\nRemunicipalisation commonly refers to the return of previously privatised water supply and sanitation services to municipal authorities. It also encompasses regional or national initiatives.\n\nThe concept is broadly used to cover:\n\nRemunicipalisation happens at many levels:\n\nAt least 234 cases of water remunicipalisation in 37 countries were recorded between 2000 and March 2015, including high profile cases in Europe, the Americas, Asia and Africa. By then, the total number of people served by remunicipalised water services had grown to exceed 100 million. Cases are more concentrated in high-income countries, where 183 remunicipalisations took place in the last 15 years, compared to 51 cases in middle- and low-income countries. Two countries, France with 94 cases and the US with 58 cases, account for the greatest majority of cases in high-income countries. Analysts also signal that the pace of remunicipalisation has doubled in the 2010-2015 period compared with the first decade of the millennium.\n\nVery often, utility managers, bureaucrats and politicians are the ones to recognise problems with water privatisation. Labour involvement is critical for the success of remunicipalisation because frontline workers have important insights into operational challenges and opportunities. Civil society movements have proven key to promoting remunicipalisation as a policy option, as well framing it as an opportunity to build socially desirable and environmentally sustainable public water models to benefit present and future generations. Researchers have been playing a role in international exchange of expertise on how to achieve transparent, accountable and effective public water management following remunicipalisation.\n\nDirect experience with common problems of private water management has persuaded many communities and policy makers that the public sector is better placed to provide quality services to citizens and promote the human right to water. These problems with water privatisation include: \n\nAt the global level, 92 of the 234 cases of remunicipalisation recorded followed contractual termination, while 69 cases were non-renewals of private contracts after expiry. In the great majority of cases private contracts proved to be unsustainable. Local governments, then, opted to remunicipalise even though they knew that they may have to pay compensation, because they evaluated that it would be less costly than continuing with privatisation in the long run.\nDavid McDonald puts remunicipalisation debates in a historical perspective: \n“Most contemporary water services around the world started as private enterprises (as early as the mid-1800s), but as the inefficiency of private sector providers became increasingly evident, and as private companies denied water services to the poor (contributing to outbreaks of cholera and other illnesses), local governments began to municipalise these services for the first time.”\n\nFinancially, there have been direct savings from remunicipalisation for most of the municipalities – around €35 million in the first year in Paris, and about C$6 million in the first three years of remunicipalisation in Hamilton – some of which was realised immediately when profit-taking fees for private management were removed. As a result, some new public operators significantly increased investments in the water systems, such as in Grenoble (France), Buenos Aires (Argentina) and Arenys de Munt (Spain). In turn, such longer term infrastructure development helps avoid future cost burdens associated with the types of health and environmental hazards experienced under privatisation, much of which was borne by the state in the past.\n\nFurther, the social benefits of water remunicipalisation have been visible in Arenys de Munt (Spain), where the local government and the new public operator restructured the tariff system to guarantee equitable access to water for low-income households. In Buenos Aires, Argentina, achieving universal access to water became a top priority for the new public operator AySA. The utility increased investment in infrastructure dramatically, and extended training programmes for employees who work with poor neighbourhood residents to expand services.\n\nRemunicipalisation also allows strengthening accountability and transparency. In Paris and Grenoble (France), the new public water operators have introduced advanced forms of public participation. This allows civil society to partake in decisions on the management of this basic public service, and to make operations responsive to the interests of local communities.\n\nWith remunicipalisation, the perspective often changes from a narrow, profit-oriented one to broader social and political objectives. Many remunicipalised water entities have demonstrated their ability to think beyond their sector to be more holistic in their planning and action. Intergovernmental coordination is often essential on issues such as watershed management for example.\n\nResearch on Buenos Aires and Hamilton has shown that public water employees became more engaged in the planning and operation of water services than they were in the past and more committed to public water services beyond the narrow financial and technocratic concerns that dominate private water management.\n\nSuccessful remunicipalisation requires careful planning and assessment of external risks, even more so for countries of the South which are under the grips of multilateral agencies. Each privatisation experience leaves significant structural, financial and ideological legacies that shape the direction of remunicipalisation and often constrain the potential for public sector success.\n\nEven where political will is strong and financial and technical capacity exists, reverting to public ownership and management is fraught with difficulties. There is institutional memory lost, degraded assets, communication and accounting systems that do not mesh with public sector systems, and so on. The deep asset deficit left by many private water companies means that municipalities are working with decrepit equipment and collapsing infrastructure that can be more expensive to repair than to replace and build anew. Private firms have also demonstrated that they can be politically difficult, sabotaging transition efforts to try and undermine the public provider. In many cases the private companies refuse to release critical operational information, attempt to take the municipalities to court for breach of contract, or initiate PR campaigns in an effort to undercut the credibility of the remunicipalisation initiatives.\n\nWhen a private contract is terminated before its expiry date, private companies can sue local governments to receive compensation for the full profits granted under the contract. A private concessionaire in Arenys de Munt, Spain obstructed fiercely the remunicipalisation process by filing complaints against the city council. The city of Indianapolis, US was forced to pay a $29-million fee to French multinational Veolia to terminate the 20-year contract over a decade early. Berlin residents have had to accept very high costs to buy back the shares held by two private operators. Private concessionaires sued Tucuman and Buenos Aires, Argentina before an international arbitration tribunal to obtain compensation. The risk of having to pay hefty compensation can distort the decision-making process of local governments who are considering termination and remunicipalisation (e.g. Jakarta, Indonesia; Szeged, Hungary; Arezzo, Italy). But in other cases the potential benefits are so clear that local authorities are ready to face such risks.\n\nFinally, it must be noted that donor funding cannot be relied on for remunicipalisation efforts. After decades of generous (and ongoing) political and financial support for privatisation from international financial institutions and bilateral donors, these development organisations have effectively ignored the remunicipalisation trend. Support for the implementation of remunicipalisation is practically non-existent (with the exception of limited funding for public-public partnerships from UN-Habitat ). In some cases international donors even have attempted to undermine remunicipalisation efforts, making the transition to public services an even more difficult one (such as the World Bank’s attempts to block remunicipalisation in Dar es Salaam and Lagos).\n\nExperiments with public participation in water services planning, worker cooperatives, community water systems and other innovative models of service delivery are challenging older models of public water delivery. Proponents argue that remunicipalisation cannot be an unquestioned return to what was offered before privatisation; it must be an improvement on what is meant by public and an expansion of the democratic terms of engagement.\nNonetheless, entrenched neoliberal beliefs in market-based incentives, ring-fenced accounting, cost-reflexive pricing, and competition within and between government departments (commonly defined as corporatization) has transformed the ways in which people think about and manage public services, raising questions about the potential for deep reform in the public sector.\n\nPublic-public partnerships\n\nPublic water operators and national or regional associations are increasingly helping each other through the remunicipalisation process. In Spain, the regional public company Aguas del Huesna (Andalusia) facilitated remunicipalisation for 22 municipalities. The remunicipalised water operators from Paris and Grenoble played a key role in helping other local authorities in France and elsewhere to remunicipalise and improve their water services. French local authorities and public water operators have benefited from the exchange of experience and knowledge on remunicipalisation that has been facilitated by associations of local governments and public enterprises. The regional institution CONGIAC in Catalonia also played a key role in Arenys de Munt’s remunicipalisation process from decision making to implementation. There are other such examples across boundaries. After failed public-private partnerships (PPPs), the Mozambican government entered into a not-for-profit partnership with a Dutch public water company focusing on local capacity building. Cooperation between public water companies as part of public-public partnerships is a viable alternative to costly PPPs and the most effective way to assist public water authorities in improving services.\n\nOther sectors\n\nHospitals and electricity services have also been taken back into public hands, at all levels of government, and there are vibrant debates around the world about how various services can be returned to public ownership and control. Each service sector offers its own managerial, technical, geographic and political challenges, but there is much to be learned from inter-sectoral debate and dialogue.\n\nCorporate Europe Observatory and the Transnational Institute have jointly developed a tracker to showcase cities, regions and countries that have rolled back privatisation and embarked on securing public water for all. This initiative mirrors the private water industry practice of listing upcoming privatisations and public-private partnerships as opportunities for commercial expansion. Cases focus on understanding why and how the remunicipalisation process took place as well as the obstacles encountered and the results achieved. In many cases, more detailed information is available through links. To provide a more realistic overview of the trend, the tracker also includes ongoing campaigns advocating for the remunicipalisation of water services.\n\nCorporate Accountability International (2014) Troubled Waters: Misleading Industry PR and the Case for Public Water. White paper, http://www.stopcorporateabuse.org/sites/default/files/resources/cai_troubledwaters_whitepaper_webres.pdf\n\nFood & Water Watch (2010) The Public Works: How Remunicipalization of Water Services Saves Money, http://documents.foodandwaterwatch.org/doc/Remunicipalization.pdf\n\nHall, D. (2012) Re-municipalising Municipal Services in Europe. PSIRU Report commissioned by the European Federation of Public Service Unions (EPSU), May (revised November) (http://www.psiru.org/sites/default/files/2012-11-Remun.docx).\n\nHall, D., Lobina, E. and Terhorst, P. (2013) Re-municipalisation in the early 21st century: Water in France and energy in Germany, International Review of Applied Economics, 27(2): 193-214.\n\nKishimoto, S. Lobina, E. & Petitjean, O, eds. 2015. Our public water future. The global experience with\nremunicipalisation, Published by Transnational Institute (TNI), Public Services International Research Unit (PSIRU),\nMultinationals Observatory, Municipal Services Project (MSP) and the European Federation of Public Service Unions\n(EPSU).Amsterdam, London, Paris, Cape Town and Brussels. Available at\nhttp://www.tni.org/sites/www.tni.org/files/download/ourpublicwaterfuture-1.pdf\n\nLobina, E., Kishimoto, S. and Petitjean, O. 2014. Here to stay: Water remunicipalisation as a global trend. Report by PSIRU, Transnational Institute, and the Multinationals Observatory, November http://psiru/sites/default/files/2014-11-W-HeretoStay.pdf.\n\nMunicipal Services Project, TNI and CEO. 2013. Remunicipalisation: Putting Water Back into Public Hands. Video (5 minutes; English, Spanish, French, Italian, Portuguese, German, Turkish, Greek). https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BlSM1TPm_k8\n\nPigeon, M., McDonald, D.A., Hoedeman, O.and Kishimoto, S. (eds.). 2012. Remunicipalisation: Putting Water Back into Public Hands (English, Spanish, Italian). Amsterdam: Transnational Institute. http://www.tni.org/briefing/remunicipalisation?context=599\n\nA global list of remunicipalisations (as of October 2014) is available at: http://www.tni.org/briefing/here-stay-water-remunicipalisation-global-trend\n\nThis participatory initiative allows water campaigners to update cases and add new ones: http://www.remunicipalisation.org\n"}
{"id": "37742084", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37742084", "title": "Slavery in Mali", "text": "Slavery in Mali\n\nSlavery in Mali exists today, with as many as 200,000 people held in direct servitude to a master. Since 2006, a movement called \"Temedt\" has been active in Mali struggling against the persistence of slavery and the discrimination associated with ex-slaves. There were reports that in the Tuareg Rebellion of 2012, ex-slaves were recaptured by their former masters.\n\nSlavery in Mali existed across different ethnic groups of Pre-Imperial Mali before the Muslim conquest. Slavery increased in importance with the Arab slave trade across the Sahara during the Middle Ages. Following the collapse of the Mali Empire (c. 1600 AD), slave raiding increased and the slave trade became a key part of the economy in the Tuareg, Mandé, and Fula communities which would eventually be the major ethnic groups in the country of Mali.\n\nWhen the area came under French colonial control in 1898, as French Sudan, the French authorities formally abolished slavery in 1905. Despite this declaration, traditional patterns of servitude persisted. Although some slaves left their positions of servitude following the declaration of 1905, many remained and in much of the country, slavery continued more or less unimpeded. With the political opening of the creation of the French Fourth Republic in 1946, large number of slaves left their positions and the slavery issue became a key political issue for the Sudanese Union – African Democratic Rally (US-RDA) party.\n\nWhen the Republic of Mali achieved independence in 1960, the government tried to further undermine the institution of slavery but efforts were largely stalled when the military dictatorship of Moussa Traoré took over the country from 1968 until 1991.\n\nInside the borders of present-day Mali, slavery existed for many centuries in the Mali Empire and the surrounding communities and kingdoms. Slavery continued to exist after the fall of the Mali Empire being a significant part of the economies of Tuareg, Mandé, and Fula communities. With the chaos at the fall of the Mali Empire, slave raiding and the slave trade increased significantly throughout the region.\n\nThe sale and trade of slaves in the 19th century was often regulated by Islamic legal codes allowing trade between different communities in the area. Slavery was not practiced in a uniform way and a variety of forms of servitude existed with distinctions often made between different types of slaves: for example between people bought or captured and those born into a household and also a distinction between those who tended herds and those who dealt with household tasks.\n\nSlavery was not as important in some communities with some in the southern part of present-day Mali having few or no slaves. However, in many parts of present-day Mali, slave labor was a key pillar of the economic system and relied on extensively. This reliance on slave labor was noted by early French administrators of the territory when the French were taking control of the area in the 1890s as a critical issue.\n\nThe French took control over the region in the 1890s and established a limited administration as part of French West Africa. Eventually the area would be organized and called the French Sudan colony, but administration was often linked to other colonies in the region for much of the early 1900s. In 1903, French administrators were instructed to not use slave as an administrative category anymore: functionally, slave status could not be used anymore to decide legal or property issues.\n\nThis was followed in 1905 when the French issued a formal decree ending slavery throughout French West Africa, including the area to become the country of Mali. Throughout French West Africa almost a million slaves responded to this by moving away from their masters and settling elsewhere, with the French supporting this effort by creating settlements around the Niger River and digging wells for communities elsewhere to engage in agriculture away from their former masters.\n\nThis process impacted the Southern and Western parts of present-day Mali most significantly, but in the Northern and Eastern parts of the colony large numbers of slaves remained in relationships of servitude to their masters. Throughout the area of present-day Mali, rough estimates say that about one-third moved away and ended the slavery relationship while two-thirds remained with their masters. In the 1920s, most Tuareg households still had slaves who tended to the house and animals.\nAlthough slavery persisted, some aspects of the relationship changed with the French administration. Slaves who escaped their masters could find official protection by French authorities in the cities for limited amounts of time. Slaves were sometimes able to renegotiate the terms of their servitude in the changed political situation. Some were willing to agree to maintain servitude status if they received control over their family life and were given some land to pass to their children. In addition, the French administration actively worked to end slave raiding and the most clear manifestations of the slave trade greatly reducing those means of acquiring slaves.\n\nThe efforts of the French administration on slave issues was largely connected to policies regarding the Tuareg areas. The Tuareg people had actively resisted French rule in the area until 1903 and were the cause of frequent revolts for many of the early decades of the 1900s (namely the Kaocen Revolt of 1916-1917). French administration largely sought to replace the political power of Tuareg society by undermining what they saw as a rigid hierarchy and caste system.\n\nThe French saw Tuareg society divided into groups of nobles, vassals, and slaves and decided to largely support the vassals in order to undermine the power of the nobles. In this effort, slaves were not considered a crucial aspect. The caste system was similarly imputed to have a racial dimension with vassals and nobles being defined as white and slaves defined as black.\n\nAs a result of the continued persistence of large numbers of slaves in Tuareg societies and the focus on vassals rather than slave populations, French administrators in the French Sudan reported incorrectly that slavery did not exist in Tuareg society so that the 1905 declaration ending slavery was largely being adhered to. Thus, for many decades after the 1905 abolition of slavery, the practice continued to exist in much of French Sudan.\n\nThe situation changed with a large number of slaves resiting their status starting in 1946. In that year, the French Fourth Republic was founded and a key part of the new constitution was direct elections for positions in the colonies. Along with these efforts, a political party came to prominence in the French Sudan, called the Sudanese Union – African Democratic Rally (US-RDA), which had a strong political base in the south of the colony. As a result of both its socialist ideology and to gain a political base in the north, the US-RDA encouraged slaves to resist their masters and become free. As a result, large numbers of slaves in the country began claiming ownership over their herds and land or simply moving to other areas where employment opportunities were available (mainly to the cities of Gao or Timbuktu or to other colonies like the Gold Coast).\n\nLarge scale emancipation and many slave revolts occurred throughout the colony. One prominent example in 1955 in the town of Norben in the Gourma-Rharous Cercle. With encouragement from the US-RDA, slaves in the area took the entire herds they cared for and moved away from their master's land. The master then organized a violent raiding party on the slaves to attempt and take back the animals. The case came to the French administrator in the area who ruled that the slaves would be given independent status from their master and that they would receive more than half of the herd.\n\nDespite these efforts by the French administration, the institution of slavery persisted through much of the colony and it was still possible in 1958 to purchase a slave in Timbuktu.\n\nSince independence in 1960, slavery continues to persist in Mali. In recent years there has been a movement trying to fight the continued practice of slavery and discrimination against ex-slaves. Although slavery is illegal, slave relationships continue to persist throughout Mali in every ethnic group in the country, although mainly in Tuareg communities.\n\nIn addition, there are reports that the status of ex-slaves and restrictions on their behavior exists in the Malian diaspora living in other countries. Some in the government claim that since there is freedom to leave the situations are not properly defined as slavery. The anti-slavery Malian organization \"Temedt\" contributed to a report claiming that up to two million people continue to be held in passive and active slave relationships, with as many as 200,000 people forcibly held as slaves.\n\nIn the early 1960s the first President of Mali, Modibo Keïta, and the US-RDA party made ending slavery a main issue for the party. Slavery was formally outlawed in the country and some efforts were made to continue the French efforts to resettle ex-slave populations. The US-RDA encouraged every slave in the country to leave their masters and many did. However, many returned within a year or two as a result of limited economic opportunities provided for ex-slaves in the country. Even these limited efforts were largely halted with the dictatorship of Moussa Traoré from 1968 until 1991.\n\nAlthough legally allowed to leave, economic and social issues have kept many people in situations that are defined as slavery. In addition, even when freed, discrimination and political power is wielded over ex-slaves in many instances. Democratization in the 1990s did not necessarily entail emancipation and there are examples of former masters pressuring and forcing ex-slaves to vote for the candidates they prefer; however, there have also been examples of resistance to this pressure.\n\nSome people who were formerly slaves or whose parents or grandparents were have risen to political prominence in post-dictatorship Mali (including Amadou Toumani Touré who was the President of Mali from 2002 until 2012). The discussion of their slave origins is largely suppressed and kept as a public secret to avoid the stigma attached with that history.\n\nThere are efforts by social movements to criminalize slavery and struggle against the stigma attached to ex-slaves. News reports about youth from Mali being involved in forcible work conditions in neighboring countries caused the government to introduce migration restrictions on all teenage Malians.\n\nIn 2002, New York Times writer Michael Finkel was fired from his job for creating a composite fictional character in reports of a child slave in Mali.\n\nWith the Tuareg Rebellion of 2012, the anti-slavery organization Temedt reported that the first people punished under the sharia system implemented were former slaves and some Tuareg families used the chaos to recapture slaves which had resisted in recent years.\n\nTemedt is a social movement which tries to end slavery throughout Mali and fight against negative stereotypes and discrimination against ex-slaves. It develops out of two efforts in the 1990s and today has over 30,000 members.\n\nIn the 1990s, Ibrahim Ag Idbaltanant (the current President of Temedt) founded the Groupement des Artisans Ruraux d’Intadeyni (GARI) which organized around providing education and micro-credit for people of slave descent in Tuareg areas. Similarly in 1994, Mohammed Ag Akeratane (the former President of Temedt) founded a movement known as Tazolt, a reference to the black paint that is sometimes added under the eyes of Tuareg people. These movements resulted in the creation of Temedt, meaning genealogy or solidarity, in 2006 in the city of Essakane.\n\nThe organization brings together intellectuals with a slave lineage to publicly challenge the practice and stigma of slavery. To protect themselves at their meetings, they invite government officials, other nongovernmental organizations, and Tuareg leaders to the events.\n\nTemedt is involved in public awareness campaigns, assisting legal challenges to slavery, and political pressure on the government to improve attention to the issue. The public awareness campaigns include parades and folklore presentations as well as other efforts to end discrimination against ex-slaves. The organization also provides key lawyers to help with the prosecution of slave cases, and with assistance from the American Bar Association, have provided key legal efforts on a number of cases.\n\nOne prominent case occurred in October 2011 when the first person in Mali was prosecuted on allegations of slavery for exploiting Iddar Ag Ogazide. Temedt pressured for the case and provided financial assistance to Ag Ogazide's family during the difficult period. After a first hearing in which the accused claimed that he had paid Ag Ogazide for his work, the trial was delayed when the judge had to flee Gao for his safety. With the Tuareg Rebellion and the military coup, the case has been delayed further. The organization also pushes the government to further criminalize slavery and add additional sanctions against the practice and works with anti-slavery organizations in other countries and with Anti-Slavery International to coordinate efforts.\n\nIn 2012, the organization received the yearly prize from Anti-Slavery International for their efforts against slavery.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1043598", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1043598", "title": "Socialist emulation", "text": "Socialist emulation\n\nSocialist competition or socialist emulation (социалистическое соревнование, \"sotsialisticheskoye sorevnovanie\", or \"соцсоревнование\", \"sotssorevnovanie\") was a form of competition between state enterprises and between individuals practiced in the Soviet Union and in other Eastern bloc states. \n\nThe first variant is a literal translation of the Russian term, commonly used by Western authors. The second form is an official Soviet translation of the term, intended to put distance from the \"capitalist competition\", which in its turn was translated as \"капиталистическая конкуренция\", \"kapitalisticheskaya konkurenciya\". \n\nImplied was that \"capitalist competition\" only profited those that won, while \"socialist emulation\" benefited all involved.\n\nIn Soviet practice, according to Victor Kravchenko and Mikhail Heller, the competition between workers and industries was, however, not voluntary and much fiercer than the Western one. It was enforced by the collective pressure orchestrated by state security services (KGB) and local communist party representatives using collective responsibility and laws on dronery or wrecking. The race between teams and team members for overcompletion of the plans led to increasingly unrealistic targets, which could be only satisfied with cheating, double accounting, hoarding of resources, and \"shturmovshchina\" (last-minute cramming)—which, in the long term, led to a collapse of the supply chain in the economy. This was the dark side of Stakhanovism, udarniki, and the subbotnik. In 1987, Soviet economist Nikolai Shmelov estimated that out of 450 billion roubles worth of inventories of raw materials and parts, around 170 billion was kept as surplus, with the sole purpose of securing the successful completion of plans.\n\nSocialist emulation was nominally voluntary everywhere where people worked or served: in industry, in agriculture, in offices, institutions, schools, hospitals, army, etc. With the natural exception of the armed forces, committees of the trade unions were in charge of managing the socialist emulation. \n\nAn important component of socialist emulation was \"socialist self-obligations\" (социалистические обязательства). While the production plan was the major benchmark, employees and work collectives were supposed to put forth \"socialist self-obligations\" and even \"enhanced socialist self-obligations\" (повышенные соцобязательства) beyond the plan. \n\nDeadlines for tallying up the results of a socialist emulation were usually set at major Socialist and Communist holidays or notable dates, like the birthday of Vladimir Lenin or the anniversary of the October Revolution.\n\nWinners were awarded both materially and morally. Material awards were money, goods, or perks specific to Socialist systems, such as tickets to resorts, authorizations for a trip abroad, right to obtain a dwelling, or a car outside the main queue, etc. Moral awards were honorary diplomas, honorary badges, and/or putting winners' portraits on the \"Board of Honor\" (Доска Почета); work collectives were awarded with the \"Transferrable Red Banner of the Socialist Emulation Winner\" (Переходящее знамя победителя в социалистическом соревновании).\n\nVladimir Lenin was the originator and promoter of the idea of socialist emulation as a means for organising \"the majority of working people into a field of labour in which they can display their abilities, develop the capacities, and reveal those talents\". His milestone article was \"How to organize the emulation?\" (\"Как организовать соревнование?\"), in which among the important goal of the emulation was discovery of persons with organizational and management skills, to replace tsarist-era specialists. Also, he was the first to set \"socialist emulation\" against \"capitalist competition\".\nLater, Joseph Stalin wrote in his streamlined style: \n\nWhile criteria of socialist emulation were easy to set, understand, and quantify in production areas, it was not so in non-production areas: medicine, education, work of clerks, etc., where significant formalism took place and among the criteria a significant weight was attributed to \"social activism\", not related to the work done.\n\n"}
{"id": "10788330", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10788330", "title": "Statoil corruption case", "text": "Statoil corruption case\n\nThe Statoil corruption case (Norwegian: Statoils Horton-sak) refers to Norwegian oil company Statoil’s misconduct and extensive use of corruption in Iran in 2002/2003 in an attempt to secure lucrative oil contracts for the company in that country. This was mainly achieved by hiring the services of Horton Investments, an Iranian consultancy firm owned by Mehdi Hashemi Rafsanjani, son of former Iranian President Hashemi Rafsanjani. Horton Investments was paid US$15.2 million by Statoil to influence important political figures in Iran to grant oil contracts to Statoil. The corruption scandal was uncovered by Norwegian paper \"Dagens Næringsliv\" on September 3, 2003. Although this case became infamous in the western media and Statoil was found guilty by the Norwegian courts no verdict was reported by the Iranian side regarding Mehdi Hashemi Rafsanjani's bribery case.\n\nOn June 29, 2004 Statoil was found guilty of corruption by the Norwegian courts and ordered to pay NOK 20 million in fines. The Director for international operations Richard John Hubbard was also ordered to pay NOK 200,000 in fines for his involvement in the case. The uncovering of the corruption scandal also led to the resignation of Statoil Chairman Leif Terje Løddesøl, Statoil CEO Olav Fjell and Director for international operations Richard John Hubbard. The charges against Olav Fjell were dropped owing to insufficient evidence. Statoil agreed to pay the fines, but insisted that this did not imply any admittance of guilt on its part.\n\nOn October 13, 2006 Statoil reached a settlement with US authorities for its involvement in the case and was ordered by a US court to pay US$21 million in fines. As part of the settlement agreement, Statoil had to agree to the following counts:\n\n1. Statoil agreed that it had paid bribes to an Iranian public servant in June 2002 and January 2003, with the aim of securing contracts for Statoil in the development of stage 6,7,8 of the South Pars gas field in Iran.\n\n2. Statoil agreed that bribes were paid to secure other contracts in the country, and to get hold of confidential information.\n\n3. Statoil agreed that it had used wrong accounting procedures in order to hide the bribes from its records.\n\nThe settlement also stipulated that no Statoil employee or representative for the company could make any statements to the media that contradicted the verdict for the next three years.\n\nFormer Iranian ambassador to Norway, and defector, Perviz Khazai, criticized Statoil strongly for its business methods in Iran. In a statement he said that,\n\n\"This smells to high heavens of corruption. And this incident can contribute to the tarnishing of Norway's reputation.\"\n\nHe also went on record to say that the Rafsanjani family were known for their close links to corruption.\n\nJan Borgen of Transparency International Norway was also highly critical of Statoil's conduct in Iran. When asked to make a comment on the case by Norwegian newspaper Aftenposten, he said,\n\n\"It is true that you can hardly get into these countries without using agents or advisers. But here, like anywhere else, you should know your agents. It is always dangerous to get involved with a consultant who has close contacts to the political elite.\".\"\n\nHelge Lund, who succeeded Olav Fjell as CEO of Statoil, has also publicly admitted that the corruption scandal tarnished Statoil and Norway's reputation abroad.\n\n"}
{"id": "45505013", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45505013", "title": "Sumanth Ashwin", "text": "Sumanth Ashwin\n\nSumanth Ashwin, born Mantena Sumanth Ashwin Varma, is a Tollywood actor and son of Film producer and director M. S. Raju. He made his debut in 2012 with \"Tuneega Tuneega\" under his father's direction and later starred in the successful \"Kerintha\" and \"Columbus\" movies.\n\nBefore entering the film industry, Sumanth Ashwin used to work with his father in his production house Sumanth Art Productions. His grandfather, M. Rayapa Raju, was a famous Producer in Telugu Film Industry. Raju's cousin is Roja Movies' Proprietor M. Arjuna Raju.\n\nSumanth Ashwin made his debut in 2012 with \"Tuneega Tuneega\" under his father's direction. The movie failed at the box-office. His second film, directed by Mohan Krishna Indraganti, was successful at the box-office and the film was nominated for Best film at the International Indian Film festival in South Africa. Sumanth Ashwin got his first commercial break with the movie \"Lovers\" the film was co-produced by Director Maruthi. His Fourth Film \"Chakkiligintha\" was directed by one of Director Sukumar's associates, Vema Reddy' MS Raju had planned to remake this film in Kannada with Sumanth Ashwin himself playing the lead again, but the remake rights of the film for Kannada had been sold before the film's Telugu release.\n\nSumanth Ashwin's recent hit movie \"Kerintha\" is a romantic entertainer in which he played a role of college-goer; the film was directed by Sai Kiran Adivi and produced by Dil Raju under Sri Venkateswara Creations. The film received positive reviews all over. He is also enjoying success of \"Columbus\" which is directed by debutante R. Samala, Run Raja Run-fame Seerat Kapoor and Chinnadana Nee Kosam fame Mishti Chakraborty appear opposite him. The producers of the film released the movie on 22 October 2015.\n"}
{"id": "6324350", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6324350", "title": "Taron people", "text": "Taron people\n\nThe Taron or Trone (တရုမ်း, ta. rum:) are a small ethnic group in the Himalayan foothills of northern Kachin, Myanmar, whose population is declining to the point where they are in danger of disappearing entirely. They have been referred to as the \"Asian pygmies\". They are allegedly descended from an ethnic group concentrated in China known as Derung who migrated to Burma from Tibet in the 1880s.\n\nLike the Pygmies of Central Africa and the Negritos of Southeast Asia, the Tarons are very small, averaging less than 129.5 cm (4 feet and 3 inches).\n\nThe Tarons have received their name from their original homeland, the headwaters of the Taron River. Leaving their original homeland around 200 years ago, the Tarons moved into Burma territory through the Thalalarkha mountain pass. \nThey settled in Kachin State, in the lower Adunlaung River valley in the Naung Mun Township of Putao District. The landscape is dense forests and difficult terrain, with torrential streams and snow-clad mountains that are home to rare wild animals such as the blue sheep and the leaf deer.\n\nIn the 1960s, a Burmese research expedition found over 50 pure-blood pygmies, and although cases of cretinism, mental retardation, goiter, and other physical and mental ailments were noted, they felt as though the community would sustain itself.\n\nA 1997 field trip commissioned by the Kachin State Peace and Development Council revealed that only eight individuals of pure Taron stock remained. It makes the Taron one of the most highly endangered human populations in the world today.\n\nAlan Rabinowitz visited their village to learn about the Taron pygmies in the late 1990s, and discovered the fate of the tribe. Dawi, age 39, the youngest remaining Taron pure-blood, explained that Taron babies were being born with increasingly severe birth defects, without any known cause. The Taron elders decided that rather than risk any more misshapen children, their race would go extinct. As a child, Dawi's father demanded that he would not marry or have children. Rabinowitz's visit was followed by anthropologist P. Christiaan Klieger of the California Academy of Sciences in 2003. Then, Dawi announced he would travel to Tibet or Yunnan in order to search for a wife, since many Taron/Dulong people lived there.\n\nIt has been proposed by Richard D. Fisher that the Taron people are descended from the Derung people who are based in the Dulong Valley in Yunnan, China. There are currently approximately 5,000 ethnic Derung people living in six designated villages within the valley. This is based on Klieger's work. Derung is simply a Chinese term for Taron or T'rung.\n\nGenetic similarities between the two ethnic groups have been observed, and it has been purported that all the Taron people were derived from three Derung people who migrated from Tibet to Myanmar in the 1880s.\n\n"}
{"id": "69418", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=69418", "title": "Tiberius Gracchus", "text": "Tiberius Gracchus\n\nTiberius Sempronius Gracchus (Latin: ; born c. 169–164 – 133 BC) was a Roman populist and reformist politician of the 2nd century BC. He was a son of Tiberius Gracchus the Elder and Cornelia Africana. As a plebeian tribune, Tiberius Gracchus caused political turmoil in the Republic with his reforms of agrarian legislation that sought to transfer land from wealthy, predominantly patrician landowners to poorer citizens. He was murdered, along with many of his supporters, by members of the Roman Senate and supporters of the conservative \"Optimate\" faction. A decade later, his younger brother, Gaius Gracchus, attempted similar legislation, and suffered a similar fate.\n\nTiberius was born between 169 and 164 BC (his birth-date cannot be confirmed);\n\nHis family, the Gracchi branch of the gens Sempronia, was one of the most politically connected in Rome. Tiberius' maternal grandparents were Publius Cornelius Scipio Africanus and Aemilia Paulla, Lucius Aemilius Paulus Macedonicus' sister, and his own sister Sempronia was the wife of Publius Cornelius Scipio Aemilianus, another important general and politician. Tiberius was raised by his mother, with his sister and his brother Gaius Gracchus. Later he married Claudia Pulchra, daughter of Appius Claudius Pulcher.\n\nTiberius' military career started in the Third Punic War, as military tribune appointed to the staff of his brother in law, Scipio Aemilianus. During his tenure as military tribune under Aemilianus, Tiberius became known for his bravery and discipline, recorded as the first to scale the enemy walls. In 137 BC he was appointed quaestor to consul Gaius Hostilius Mancinus and served his term in Numantia (Hispania province). The campaign was part of the Numantine War and was unsuccessful; Mancinus's army suffered major defeats and Mancinus himself had tried disgracefully to withdraw at night and caused his rearguard to be cut to pieces and the Roman camp looted.\n\nTiberius, as quaestor, saved the army from destruction by signing a peace treaty with the Numantines, an action generally reserved for a Legate. In the negotiations, Tiberius recalled the exploits of his father Tiberius, who had also waged war in Spain but had struck a peace agreement with the Numantines. The Numantines so respected Tiberius that when they learned he had lost his ledgers when they had despoiled the Roman camp, they invited him back to their city, offering him a banquet and allowing Tiberius to take back not only his ledgers but anything else he wanted from the spoils. Tiberius, however, refused to take anything else save some incense used for sacrificial rituals.\n\nTiberius' actions stirred up a frenzy in Rome; his opponents argued that Tiberius' negotiation made Rome appear weak and the losers of the war, while his proponents maintained that the general Mancinus was several times defeated and had tried to ignobly retreat and Tiberius' actions saved the lives of many citizen-soldiers.\n\nThe people voted to have Mancinus sent back to the Numantines in chains, a proposition Mancinus himself accepted, though later the Numantines refused to accept him as a prisoner. Scipio Aemilianus played a significant role in supporting Tiberius and his officers, but failed to prevent further punishment meted out to Mancinus nor did he support the ratification of Tiberius' treaty. Despite this, Plutarch mentions that this caused little friction between the two men, and even posits that Tiberius would have never fallen victim to assassination had Scipio not been away campaigning against the very same Numantines given the amount of political clout that Scipio wielded in Rome.\n\nRome's internal political situation was not peaceful. In the last hundred years, there had been several wars. Since legionaries were required to serve in a complete campaign, no matter how long it was, soldiers often left their farms in the hands of wives and children. Small farms in this situation often went bankrupt and were bought up by the wealthy upper class, forming huge private estates.\n\nFurthermore, some lands ended up being taken by the state in war, both in Italy and elsewhere. After the war was over, much of this conquered land would then be sold to or rented to various members of the populace. Much of this land was given to only a few farmers who then had large amounts of land that were more profitable than the smaller farms. The farmers with large farms had their land worked by slaves and did not do the work themselves, unlike landowners with smaller farms.\n\nAccording to Plutarch, \"when Tiberius on his way to Numantia passed through Etruria and found the country almost depopulated and its husbandmen and shepherds imported barbarian slaves, he first conceived the policy which was to be the source of countless ills to himself and to his brother.\"\n\nWhen the soldiers returned from the legions, they had nowhere to go, so they went to Rome to join the thousands of unemployed who roamed the city. As only men who owned property were allowed to enroll in the army, the number of men eligible for army duty was therefore shrinking; and hence the military power of Rome. Plutarch noted, \"Then the poor, who had been ejected from their land, no longer showed themselves eager for military service, and neglected the bringing up of children, so that soon all Italy was conscious of a dearth of freemen, and was filled with gangs of foreign slaves, by whose aid the rich cultivated their estates, from which they had driven away the free citizens.\"\n\nIn 133 BC Tiberius was elected tribune of the people. Soon he started to legislate on the matter of the homeless legionaries. Speaking before a crowd at the Rostra, Tiberius said, \"The wild beasts that roam over Italy have their dens, each has a place of repose and refuge. But the men who fight and die for Italy enjoy nothing but the air and light; without house or home they wander about with their wives and children.\"\n\nSeeking to improve the lot of the poor, Tiberius Gracchus proposed a law known as the Lex Sempronia Agraria. The law would reorganize control of the ager publicus, or public land, meaning land conquered in previous wars that was controlled by the state. Previous agrarian law specified that no citizen would be allowed to possess more than 500 jugera (that is, approximately 125 hectares) of the ager publicus and any land that they occupied above this limit would be confiscated by the state. However, this law was largely ignored and rich landowners continued to acquire land through fictitious tenants initially before transferring the land directly to themselves. They then began to work it with slave labour, giving rise to latifundia, alienating and impoverishing free Roman citizens.\n\nThe 500 jugera limit was a reiteration of previous land laws, such as the Licinian Laws passed in 367 BC, which had been enacted but never enforced. As it stood in Tiberius Gracchus's time, a good deal of this land was held in farms far in excess of 500 iugera by large landholders who had settled or rented the property in much earlier time periods, even several generations back. Sometimes it had been leased, rented, or resold to other holders after the initial sale or rental.\n\nTiberius saw that reform was needed. He met with three prominent leaders: Crassus, the Pontifex Maximus, the consul and jurist Publius Mucius Scaevola, and Appius Claudius, his father-in-law. Together, the men formulated a law which would have fined those who held more than their allotted land and would require them to forfeit illegal possessions to the ager publicus, for which they would be compensated. The people simply wanted assurances of future protection, but the senatorial elites opposed the law, claiming Tiberius was seeking a redistribution of wealth, thereby shaking the foundations of the Republic and inciting social revolution. He proposed his law in 134 BC, and to mollify these landowners, they would be allowed to own their land rent-free, and would be entitled to 250 jugera per son above the legal limit. They would also be paid for the land they had to forfeit.\n\nFurthermore, Tiberius Gracchus called for the redistribution of the re-confiscated public land to the poor and homeless in Rome, giving them plots of 30 iugera upon which to support themselves and their families, not to mention that the redistributed wealth would make them eligible for taxation and military service. Thus the law sought to solve the twin problems of increasing the number of men eligible for military service (thereby boosting Rome's military strength) and also providing for homeless war veterans.\n\nThe Senate and its conservative elements were strongly against the Sempronian agrarian reforms, with most of their hostility due to Tiberius’ highly unorthodox method of passing the reforms. Because Tiberius clearly knew the Senate wouldn’t approve his reforms, he sidestepped the Senate altogether by going straight to the Concilium Plebis (the Plebeian Assembly) which supported his measures. This measure, together with the unprecedented removal of the Tribune Marcus Octavius, who had vetoed the measure, insulted the Senate and alienated Senators who otherwise might have shown support.\n\nHowever, any tribune could veto a proposal, preventing it from being laid before the Assembly. In an effort to stop Tiberius, the Senate persuaded Marcus Octavius, another tribune, to use his veto to prevent the submission of the bills to the Assembly. Gracchus then moved that Octavius should be immediately deposed, arguing that Octavius as a tribune acted contrary to the wishes of his constituents. Octavius, Tiberius reasoned, violated a basic tenet of the office of the tribune, which was to ensure the protection of the people from any political or economic oppression by the Senate. Octavius remained resolute. The people began to vote to depose Octavius, but he vetoed their actions as was his legal right as tribune. Tiberius, consigning himself to the worst situation, had him forcibly removed from the meeting place of the Assembly and proceeded with the vote to depose him.\n\nThese actions violated Octavius' right of sacrosanctity and worried Tiberius' supporters, and so instead of moving to depose him, Tiberius commenced to use his veto on daily ceremonial rites in which Tribunes were asked if they would allow for key public buildings, for example the markets and the temples, to be opened. In this way he effectively shut down the entire city of Rome, including all businesses, trade and production, until the Senate and the Assembly passed the laws. The Assembly, fearing for Tiberius's safety, formed a guard around Tiberius and frequently escorted him home.\n\nTiberius justified the expulsion of Octavius by stating that a tribune was\n\nsacred and inviolable, because he was consecrated to the people and was a champion of the people... If, then he should change about, wrong the people, maim its power, and rob it of the privilege of voting, he has by his own acts deprived himself of his honourable office by not fulfilling the conditions on which he received it; for otherwise there would be no interference with a tribune even though he should try to demolish the Capitol or set fire to the naval arsenal. If a tribune does these things, he is a bad tribune; but if he annuls the power of the people, he is no tribune at all... And surely, if it is right for him to be made tribune by a majority of the votes of the tribes, it must be even more right for him to be deprived of his tribuneship by a unanimous vote.\nAppian presents a slightly different version of events. Tiberius Gracchus only moved to have Marcus Octavius removed from office after a vote was put to the Assembly. In Appian's version, after 17 of the 35 tribes voted in favor of Tiberius, Tiberius implored Octavius to step aside lest he be deprived of his office. When Octavius refused, the 18th tribe voted in favor of Tiberius, giving him the majority and the resolution, which included both his land law and the abrogation of Octavius' office. It was only after this, according to Appian, that Octavius slinked away unnoticed and was replaced as tribune by Quintus Memmius. This version effectively mitigates the accusation that Tiberius ever laid hands on an inviolate person such as Octavius, instead showing that Tiberius won his support with full legality.\n\nHaving passed his law, Tiberius was lauded as a founding hero not just of a single city or race, but as the founding hero of all the Italians, who had come to endure immense poverty and deprivation, denied of their rightful land because of their military service and having lost work because of the influx of slaves, who were loyal to no man while citizens were loyal to the state. In Appian's account, Tiberius Gracchus is seen as a popular hero, and there is no account given of Tiberius' justification for deposing Octavius.\n\nThe Senate gave trivial funds to the agrarian commission that had been appointed to execute Tiberius' laws. This commission was composed entirely of members of Tiberius' family, including Appius Claudius, his father-in-law, Tiberius and his brother Gaius. This, of course, did little to soothe the bitterness between the Gracchi and the Senate, and the Senate and conservatives took every opportunity to hamper, delay and slander Tiberius. However, late in 133 BC, king Attalus III of Pergamum died and left his entire fortune (including the whole kingdom of Pergamum) to Rome. Tiberius saw his chance and immediately used his tribunician powers to allocate the fortune to fund the new law. This was a direct attack on Senatorial power, since the Senate was traditionally responsible for the management of the treasury and for decisions regarding overseas affairs. The opposition of the Senate to Tiberius Gracchus' policies increased. Quintus Pompeius addressed the Senate and said that he \"was a neighbour of Tiberius, and therefore knew that Eudemus of Pergamum had presented Tiberius with a royal diadem and a purple robe, believing that he was going to be king in Rome.\" Pompeius's fears were reflective of a growing number of senators who were afraid that Tiberius was claiming too much power for himself. They feared that Tiberius was seeking to become King of Rome, a loathed office which had been dismantled with the ousting of the Tarquins and the establishment of the Republic. Such fears tipped the Senate from hatred and paranoia into committing the first outright bloodshed in Republican politics.\n\nTiberius Gracchus' overruling of the tribunician veto was considered illegal, and his opponents were determined to prosecute him at the end of his one-year term, since he was regarded as having violated the constitution and having used force against a tribune. In one standoff between Tiberius and Titus Annius, a renowned orator, Annius argued that if a colleague of Tiberius stood to defend him and Tiberius disapproved, he would simply in a passion physically remove the man. Tiberius realized that his actions against Octavius had won him ill repute among the Senate and even among the People.\n\nAfter the death of a friend of Tiberius, rumors circulated that the man had been poisoned. Seizing the opportunity to win sympathy with the People, Tiberius dressed in mourning clothes and paraded his children in front of the Assembly, pleading for the protection of him and his kin. He sought to repair the perception of his error against Octavius by arguing that the office of the tribune, a sacrosanct position, could be acted upon if the holder violated his oath. To support this he posited that other sacrosanct office holders were seized when they violated their duties, such as Vestal Virgins or the Roman kings, done so the state would benefit from their removal. To protect himself further, Tiberius Gracchus stood for re-election to the tribunate for 132 BC, promising to shorten the term of military service, abolish the exclusive right of senators to act as jurors and include other social classes, and admit allies to Roman citizenship, all moves popular with the Assembly. Tiberius continued to plead with the People, lamenting that he feared for his safety and that of his family, and moved them so much that many camped outside his house to ensure his protection.\n\nWhen the People assembled on the Capitol, Tiberius set out, despite many inauspicious omens. While the tribes were being assembled, a skirmish broke out on the outskirts of the crowd as Tiberius' supporters were attempting to block a group of his opponents from entering into the area to mingle about. A sympathetic senator, Fulvius Flaccus, was able to make his way to Tiberius to warn him that the Senate was seated and plotting to kill him, having armed slaves and their men since they could not convince the consul to do the deed. Tiberius' men then armed themselves with clubs and staves, prepared to meet any violence in kind. Tiberius, trying to shout above the din, gestured to his head to signal his life was in danger, but his opponents took this as a sign requesting for a crown and ran back to the Senate to report the signal.\n\nWhen the Senate heard this, outrage spread among them. Tiberius' cousin, Publius Cornelius Scipio Nasica, the newly elected Pontifex Maximus, saying that Tiberius wished to make himself king, demanded that the consul take action. When he refused, Nasica girded his toga over his head, shouting \"Now that the consul has betrayed the state, let every man who wishes to uphold the laws follow me!\" and led the senators up towards Tiberius. In the resulting confrontation, Tiberius was beaten to death with clubs and staves made from benches which lay strewn about. His fellow tribune, Publius Satyreius, dealt the first blow to his head. More than 300 supporters, including Tiberius, were slain by stones and staves, but none by sword, and their bodies thrown into the Tiber. Such an act denied them a proper funeral. This, according to Plutarch, was the first outbreak of civil strife in Rome.\n\nFollowing the massacre, many of Tiberius' supporters were sent into exile without a trial, while others were arrested and executed, including being sewn up in a bag with poisonous vipers. The Senate attempted to mollify the People by allowing the agrarian law to go into effect and a vote to replace Tiberius on the commission; the job fell to Publius Crassus, father-in-law of Tiberius' brother Gaius. When threatened with impeachment, Nasica was reassigned to Asia to remove him from the city. The People made no attempt to conceal their hatred of him, accosting him publicly, cursing him and calling him a tyrant. Nasica wandered, despised and outcast, until he died shortly later near Pergamum. Even Scipio Africanus the Younger, who had formerly enjoyed the love of the People, incurred their wrath when he said he disapproved of Tiberius' politics, and was thereafter frequently interrupted when giving speeches, causing him to only lash out more at them.\n\nLater, following the murder of his brother, statues of both were placed throughout the city in prominent locations, where they were worshiped as heroes of the People, sometimes even being sacrificed to as if they were gods.\n\nThe Senate sought to placate the plebeians by consenting to the enforcement of the Gracchan laws. An increase in the register of citizens in the next decade suggests a large number of land allotments. Nonetheless, the agrarian commission found itself faced with many difficulties and obstacles.\n\nTiberius' heir was his younger brother Gaius, who shared Tiberius' fate a decade later, while trying to apply even more revolutionary legislation.\n\nThe French revolutionary François-Noël Babeuf took up the name \"Gracchus Babeuf\" in conscious emulation of the Roman brothers, and published a newspaper, \"Le tribun du peuple\" (\"the tribune of the people\"). Ultimately he, like them, met a violent end.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25119400", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25119400", "title": "Timoto–Cuica people", "text": "Timoto–Cuica people\n\nTimoto–Cuica people were an indigenous group composed primarily of two tribes, the Timote and the Cuica, that inhabited in the Andean region of western Venezuela. They were closely related to the Muisca of the Andes, who spoke Muysccubun, a version of Chibcha. The Timoto-Cuicas were not only composed of the Timoto and the Cuica tribes, but also the Mucuchíes, the Migures, the Tabayes, and the Mucuñuques.\n\nPre-Columbian Venezuela had an estimated indigenous population of one million, with the Andean region being the most densely populated area. The two tribes lived in what are today the states of Mérida, Trujillo, and Táchira.\n\nTimoto-Cuica society was complex with pre-planned permanent villages, surrounded by irrigated, terraced fields. They also stored water in tanks. Their houses were made primarily of stone and wood with thatched roofs. They were peaceful, for the most part, and depended on growing crops. Regional crops included potatoes and ullucos.\n\nThey left behind works of art, particularly anthropomorphic ceramics, but no major monuments. They spun vegetable fibers to weave into textiles and mats for housing. They are credited with having invented the arepa, a staple in Venezuelan and Colombian cuisine.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39467198", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39467198", "title": "Transitional housing", "text": "Transitional housing\n\nTransitional housing provides temporary housing for the certain segments of the homeless population, including working homeless making insufficient wages who have trouble affording long-term housing, and is set up to transition their residents into permanent, affordable housing. It is not in an emergency homeless shelter but usually a room or apartment in a residence with support services.\n\nThe transitional time can be short, for example one or two years, and in that time the person must file for and get permanent housing and usually some gainful employment or income, even if Social Security or assistance. Sometimes, the transitional housing residence program charges a room and board fee, maybe 30% of an individual's income, which is sometimes partially or fully refunded after the person procures a permanent place to live in. In the USA, federal funding for transitional housing programs was originally allocated in the McKinney–Vento Homeless Assistance Act of 1986.\n"}
{"id": "9715522", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9715522", "title": "Turn construction unit", "text": "Turn construction unit\n\nA turn construction unit (TCU) is the fundamental segment of speech in a conversation, as analyzed in conversation analysis.\n\nThe idea was introduced in (Sacks, Schegloff, & Jefferson 1974) and is meant to describe pieces of conversation which may comprise an entire turn. The end of a TCU, called a \"transition relevance place\" (TRP), marks a point where the turn may go to another speaker, or the present speaker may continue with another TCU.\n\nA Turn Construction Unit (TCU) is a building component of a turn in a conversation. It is a unit of conversation that completes a communicative act.\n\nThere are four types of TCU categorized by the roles they play in the utterance:\n\n1. Lexical TCU: e.g. \"Yes\", \"There\"\n2. Phrasal TCU: e.g. \"In the basket\", \"out of here\"\n3. Clausal TCU: e.g. \"When I am free\", \"If I got the job\"\n4. Sentential TCU: e.g. \"I am working on my thesis\", \"He has got my car\"\n\nA general rule to identify a TCU would be to look for a possible completion in an ongoing utterance. There are three criteria to determine what constitutes a TCU:\n1. Intonationally Complete: This means the utterance is at a possible point of completion with the hint of a falling tone, signaling the possible ending of the utterance.\n2. Grammatically Complete: This means the utterance is at a possible point of completion with a hint of its syntactic completeness, i.e. it signals the end of a sentence in terms of its grammatical structure.\n3. Pragmatically Complete: This means the utterance is seen to have possibly accomplished its purpose in response to the situation during a conversation. For example, the utterance \"She is really\" can be seen as pragmatically complete in response to the exclamation, \"That girl is really pretty!\", in the sense that it functions as an agreement to the previous comment.\n\nScholars in the field of conversation analysis have debated over the relative significance of the above three criteria as signifiers of the end of an utterance. There are, however, no conclusive answer to the discussion, and one can classify a TCU as such when observing either one (or more) of the above features.\n\nTransition Relevance Place (or TRP) is a point of possible completion (or potential end) of an utterance (hence a TCU) where speaker change is a possible next action.\n\nSacks H, Schegloff E A, Jefferson G. \"A simplest systematics for the organization of turn-taking for conversation.\" \"Language\" 50 (1974) pp. 696–735\n\n"}
{"id": "12219152", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12219152", "title": "Vietnamese people in the Czech Republic", "text": "Vietnamese people in the Czech Republic\n\nVietnamese people in the Czech Republic, including residents and citizens, form the largest immigrant community in the country, as well as the third largest ethnic minority overall (after Slovaks and Ukrainians), numbering more than 83,000 people according to 2011 census. \n\nIt is the third largest Vietnamese diaspora in Europe, after France and Germany, and one of the most populous Vietnamese diasporas of the world.\n\nAccording to the 2001 census, there were 17,462 ethnic Vietnamese in the Czech Republic. The Vietnamese population has grown very rapidly since then, with the Czech Statistics Office estimating that there were 61,012 Vietnamese residing in the Czech Republic in October 2009. Nguyen, the most common Vietnamese surname, is now the 9th most common surname in the entire country.\n\nVietnamese immigrants began settling in Czechoslovakia during the Communist period, when they were invited as guest workers by the Czechoslovak government. Migration was encouraged by the Vietnamese authorities, with the intention that the migrants would return with skills and training. \n\nFollowing the collapse of communism in Czechoslovakia, many Vietnamese decided to remain in the country rather than return home. This first generation of immigrants has traditionally made a living as vendors in street markets or stalls. In recent years, however, a significant number have moved towards establishing their own businesses and integrating more broadly into society, similar to the experience of other overseas Vietnamese in Western countries. However, the small business sector remains the key economic domain of first-generation Vietnamese people in the Czech Republic.\n\nVietnamese immigration continued in the 1990s and 2000s (decade), with Vietnam being one of the countries targeted by the Czech Republic's skilled migration programme.\n\nThe majority of Vietnamese (over 10,000 people as of 2011) live in Prague, and 2% of the population of Karlovy Vary Region have Vietnamese citizenship, with the border town of Cheb being a main centre for Vietnamese people. Also the northernmost part of Bohemia – around the town Varnsdorf – has a significant Vietnamese population.\n\nIn the Czech Republic, national minorities are afforded classic national minority rights, including government funding for the protection of their language and culture. In recent years, the Vietnamese community has sought recognition as a national minority. In 2004, however, the Government Council for National Minorities, the advisory body of the Czech Government on the issues of national minorities, concluded that the Vietnamese do not constitute a \"national minority\", as this term only applies to indigenous minorities who have inhabited the Czech territory for a long period of time. Eventually in 2013, a representative of the Vietnamese was accepted as a member of the Government Council for National Minorities, which in the absence of precise legal criteria, has been understood as an official recognition of the Vietnamese ethnic minority as a national minority by both authorities and the public. In Prague, which has the largest community of Vietnamese, a Vietnamese representative had been a member of the city's National Minority Council and Vietnamese had been included in Prague's policy for national minorities before this happened at the national level.\n\nIn some regions, such as Northern Bohemia, Vietnamese lead the statistics of crimes committed by foreigners, being second only to Slovaks. In drugs related crimes, Vietnamese are the most common foreigner group. Also, 60% of Czech Police drug crime detectives, that generally suffer from lack of personnel, are focused on the Vietnamese drug crime, leaving them short when it comes to investigation of other ethnic criminal groups, such as Turkish gangs specialized in heroin.\nVietnamese criminal gangs in the Czech Republic usually have a three-level structure. The kingpin is usually a well-established man, who came to the country as a student in 1980s. The second level consists of his close friends from studies or family members, while the third level comprises \"soldiers\", who are often in the country illegally and are fully dependent on the criminal organization.\nCriminal activities of Vietnamese gangs in the country consist mainly of tax evasion, infringement of intellectual property rights, smuggling and frauds, but include also racketeering, robbery and murders. \nWhile traditionally specializing in counterfeit goods, during the 2000s Vietnamese people dominated the production and sale of illegal drugs, especially marijuana, methamphetamine and heroin, in many regions of the Czech Republic.\nDramatic rise in metamphetamine use in the neighboring Bavaria and Sachsen led in 2013 to German pressure for change of Czech drug laws, under which for example possession of up two grams of metamphetamine or up to fifteen grams of mariujana are not a criminal offense. According to the German authorities, the high legal threshold allows easy purchase for German drug users. However, Czech addiction experts refused lowering of the threshold, saying, that this would merely lead to criminalization of addicts and would not solve the issue. Instead, Czech authorities intensified international cooperation and investigation.\n\nIn April 2013, the Czech Republic and Vietnam announced a new bilateral treaty, under which policemen from Vietnam were to join Czech teams fighting Vietnamese drug mafia, while convicted Vietnamese were to be repatriated to the home country and serve their sentences there.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33948", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33948", "title": "Walloons", "text": "Walloons\n\nWalloons (; , ; ) are a Romance ethnic people native to Belgium, principally its southern region of Wallonia, who speak French and Walloon. Walloons are a distinctive ethnic community within Belgium. Important historical and anthropological criteria (religion, language, traditions, folklore) bind Walloons to the French people.\n\nMore generally, the term is also extended to refer to the inhabitants of the Walloon region in general, regardless of ethnicity or descent. Besides French and Walloon, a minority of Walloons also speak various regional Romance languages and dialects such as Picard and Lorrain. Walloons are described as being descendants of Gallo-Romans with Germanic Frankish admixture, in this regard similar to the French.\n\nThe term \"Walloon\" is derived from \"*walha\", a Proto-Germanic term used to refer to Celtic and Latin speakers.\n\n\"Walloon\" originated in Romance languages alongside other related terms, but it supplanted them. Its oldest written trace is found in Jean de Haynin's \"Mémoires de Jean, sire de Haynin et de Louvignies\" in 1465, where it refers to Roman populations of the Burgundian Netherlands. Its meaning narrowed yet again during the French and Dutch periods and, at Belgian independence, the term designated only Belgians speaking a Romance language (French, Walloon, Picard, etc.) The linguistic cleavage in the politics of Belgium adds a political content to \"the emotional cultural, and linguistic concept\". The words \"Walloon\" and \"Wallons\" can be seen in the book of Charles White, \"The Belgic Revolution\" (1835): \"The restless Wallons, with that adventurous daring which is their historical characteristic, abandoned their occupations, and eagerly seizing the pike and the musket marched towards the centre of the commotion.\". The Spanish terms of Walon and Walona from the 17th century referred to a Royal Guard Corps recruited in the Spanish Flanders. They were involved in many of the most significant battles of the Spanish Empire. The French word \"Wallons\" in English is also used in the \"Encyclopædia Britannica\".\n\nAlbert Henry wrote that although in 1988 the word \"Walloon\" evoked a constitutional reality, it originally referred to Roman populations of the Burgundian Netherlands and was also used to designate a territory by the terms \"provinces wallonnes\" or Walloon country (Pays wallon), from the 16th century to the Belgian revolution, and later Wallonia. The term 'Walloon country' was also used in Dutch viz. \"Walsch land\". The term existed also in German, perhaps \"Wulland\" in Hans Heyst's book (1571) where \"Wulland\" is translated by Wallonia in English (1814). In German it is however generally \"Wallonenland\" : \"Le païs de Valons, Belgolalia, Wallonenland, in \"Le Grand Dictionnaire Royal\" Augsbourg, 1767\"; \"The name of the churches' consecration is in Touraine \"assemblées\", in Brittany \"pardons\", in the northern Departments sometimes \"kermesses\", sometimes as in the Walloon country, \"ducasses\" (from dedicatio) \" In English, it is Walloon country (see further James Shaw). In French (and France (Wand)), it is \"le Pays wallon\": \"The Walloon country included the greatest part of to-day's Belgium, the Province of Flandre orientale, the Province of Flandre occidentale both named \"Flandre wallonne\", the Province of Namur, the Hainaut, the Limbourg, the pays de Liège and even the Luxembourg\" For Félix Rousseau, Walloon country is, after \"le Roman pays\" the old name of the country of the Walloons and the nickname \"Romande\" was commonly used to describe Walloons until the late 19th century. \n\nThe term \"state reform\" in the Belgian context indicates a process towards finding constitutional and legal solutions for the problems and tensions among the different segments of the Belgian population, mostly Dutch-speakers of Flanders and French-speakers of Wallonia. In general, Belgium evolved from a unitary state to a federal state with communities, regions and language areas.\n\nThe extent of Wallonia, the area defined by the use of the language, has shifted through the ages. The low-lying area of Flanders and the hilly region of the Ardennes have been under the control of many city-states and external powers. Such changing rule brought variations to borders, culture, and language. The Walloon language, widespread in use up until the Second World War, has been dying out of common use due to growing internationalisation. Although official educational systems do not include it as a language, the French government continues to support the use of French within the \"Francophonie\" commonwealth.\n\nThis is complicated by the federal structure of Belgium, which splits Belgium into three communities with the privilege of using their own tongues in official correspondence, but also into three autonomous regions. The communities are: French community (though not Walloon, but sometimes controversially called \"Wallonia-Brussels\"), Flemish community (which uses Dutch), and German-speaking community. The division into political regions does not correspond with the communities: Flemish Region, Walloon Region (including the German community but generally called Wallonia), and the bilingual (French-Dutch) Brussels-Capital Region.\n\nMany non-French-speaking observers (over)generalize \"Walloons\" as a term of convenience for all Belgian French-speakers (even those born and living in the Brussels-Capital Region). The mixing of the population over the centuries means that most families can trace ancestors on both sides of the linguistic divide. But, the fact that Brussels is around 85% French-speaking, but is located in Dutch-speaking Flanders, has led to friction between the regions and communities. The local dialect in Brussels, \"Brussels Vloms\", is a Brabantic dialect, reflecting the Dutch heritage of the city.\n\nWalloons are historically credited with pioneering the industrial revolution in Continental Europe in the early 19th century. In modern history, Brussels has been the major town or the capital of the region. Because of long Spanish and minor French rule, French became the sole official language. After a brief period with Dutch as the official language while the region was part of the United Kingdom of the Netherlands, the people reinstated French after achieving independence in 1830. The Walloon region, a major coal and steel-producing area, developed rapidly into the economic powerhouse of the country. Walloons (in fact French-speaking elites who were called \"Walloons\") became politically dominant. Many Flemish immigrants came to work in Wallonia. Between the 1930s and the 1970s, the gradual decline of steel and more especially coal, coupled with too little investment in service industries and light industry (which came to predominate in Flanders), started to tip the balance in the other direction. Flanders became gradually politically and economically dominant. In their turn, Walloon families have moved to Flanders in search of jobs. This evolution has not been without political repercussions.\n\nThe heartland of Walloon culture are the Meuse river and Sambre valleys, Charleroi, Dinant, Namur (the regional capital), Huy, Verviers, and Liège.\n\nThe Walloon language is an element of Walloon identity. However, the entire French-speaking population of Wallonia cannot be culturally considered Walloon, since a significant portion in the west (around Tournai and Mons) and smaller portions in the extreme south (around Arlon) possess other languages as mother tongues (namely, Picard, Champenois, Luxembourgish, and Lorrain). All of them can speak French as well or better.\n\nA survey of the \"Centre liégeois d'étude de l'opinion\" pointed out in 1989 that 71.8% of the younger people of Wallonia understand and speak only a little or no Walloon language; 17.4% speak it well; and only 10.4% speak it exclusively. Based on other surveys and figures, Laurent Hendschel wrote in 1999 that between 30 and 40% people were bilingual in Wallonia (Walloon, Picard), among them 10% of the younger population (18–30 years old). According to Hendschel, there are 36 to 58% of young people have a passive knowledge of the regional languages. On the other hand, Givet \"commune\", several villages in the Ardennes \"département\" in France, which publishes the journal \"Causons wallon\" (Let us speak Walloon); and two villages in Luxembourg are historically Walloon-speaking.\n\nSince the 11th century, the great towns along the river Meuse, for example, Dinant, Huy, and Liège, traded with Germany, where \"Wallengassen\" (Walloons' neighborhoods) were founded in certain cities. In Cologne, the Walloons were the most important foreign community, as noted by three roads named \"Walloonstreet\" in the city. The Walloons traded for materials they lacked, such as copper, found in Germany, especially at Goslar.\n\nIn the 13th century, the medieval German colonization of Transylvania (central and North-Western Romania) also included numerous Walloons. Place names such as \"Wallendorf\" (Walloon Village) and family names such as \"Valendorfean\" (Wallon peasant) can be found among the Romanian citizens of Transylvania.\n\nIn 1572 Jean Bodin made a funny play on words which has been well known in Wallonia to the present:\nTranslation: \"We are called \"Walloons\" by the Belgians because when the ancient people of Gallia were travelling the length and breadth of the earth, it happened that they asked each other: 'Où allons-nous?' [Where are we going? : the pronunciation of these French words is the same as the French word \"Wallons\" (plus 'us')], i.e. 'To which goal are we walking?.' It is probable they took from it the name \"Ouallons\" (\"Wallons\"), which the Latin speaking are not able to pronounce without changing the word by the use of the letter G.\" One of the best translations of his (humorous) sayings used daily in Wallonia is \"These are strange times we are living in.\"\n\nShakespeare used the word Walloon: \"A base Walloon, to win the Dauphin's grace/Thrust Talbot with a spear in the back.\" A note in \"Henry VI, Part I\" says, \"At this time, the Walloons [were] the inhabitants of the area, now in south Belgium, still known as the 'Pays wallon'.\" Albert Henry agrees, quoting Maurice Piron, also quoted by A.J. Hoenselaars: \"'Walloon' meaning 'Walloon country' in Shakespeare's 'Henry VI'...\"\n\nStarting from the 1620s, numerous Walloon miners and iron-workers, with their families, settled in Sweden to work in iron mining and refining. Walloon methods of iron production were incorporated into Swedish practice, to supplement the existing German techniques. Many Walloon workers settled around the mine at Dannemora producing Öregrund iron which represented 15 per cent of Sweden's iron production at that time.\n\nThey were originally led by the entrepreneur Louis de Geer, who commissioned them to work in the iron mines of Uppland and Östergötland. The wave of migration continued substantially into the 18th century. Walloons became gradually integrated into Swedish society, but it was not until the end quarter of the 20th century when they were fully integrated, when the Swedish legislation allowed Catholics to become civil servants. Walloon ancestry is traceable through Walloon surnames. Some people of Walloon descent belong to the \"Sällskapet Vallonättlingar\" (Society of Walloon Descendants).\n\nA 1786 history of the Netherlands noted, \"[The] Haynault and Namur, with Artois, now no longer an Austrian Province, compose the Walloon country. The Walloon name and language are also extended into the adjacent districts of the neighbouring Provinces. A large part of Brabant, where that Province borders on Haynault and Namur, is named Walloon Brabant. The affinity of language seems also on some occasions to have wrought a nearer relation.\"\n\nThe Belgian revolution was recently described as firstly a conflict between the Brussels municipality which was secondly disseminated in the rest of the country, \"particularly in the Walloon provinces\". We read the nearly same opinion in Edmundson's book: The royal forces, on the morning of September 23, entered the city at three gates and advanced as far as the Park. But beyond that point they were unable to proceed, so desperate was the resistance, and such the hail of bullets that met them from barricades and from the windows and roofs of the houses. For three days almost without cessation the fierce contest went on, the troops losing ground rather than gaining it. On the evening of the 26th the prince gave orders to retreat, his troops having suffered severely. The effect of this withdrawal was to convert a street insurrection into a national revolt. The moderates now united with the liberals, and a Provisional Government was formed, having amongst its members Rogier, Van de Weyer, Gendebien, , Félix de Mérode and Louis de Potter, who a few days later returned triumphantly from banishment. The Provisional Government issued a series of decrees declaring Belgium independent, releasing the Belgian soldiers from their allegiance, and calling upon them to abandon the Dutch standard. They were obeyed. The revolt, which had been confined mainly to the Walloon districts, now spread rapidly over Flanders. Jacques Logie wrote: \"On the 6th October, the whole Wallonia was under the Provisional Government's control. In the Flemish part of the country the collapse of the Royal Government was as total and quick as in Wallonia, except Ghent and Antwerp.\" Robert Demoulin who was Professor at the Université de Liège wrote: \"Liège is in the forefront of the battle for liberty\", more than Brussels but with Brussels. He wrote the same thing for Leuven. According to Demoulin, these three cities are the \"républiques municipales\" at the head of the Belgian revolution. In this chapter VI of his book, \"Le soulèvement national\" (pp. 93–117), before writing \"On the 6th October, the whole Wallonia is free\", he quotes the following municipalities from which volunteers were going to Brussels, the \"centre of the commotion\", in order to take part in the battle against the Dutch troops : Tournai, Namur, Wavre (p. 105) Braine-l'Alleud, Genappe, Jodoigne, Perwez, Rebecq, Grez-Doiceau, , Nivelles (p. 106), Charleroi (and its region), Gosselies, Lodelinsart (p. 107), Soignies, Leuze, Thuin, Jemappes (p. 108), Dour, Saint-Ghislain, (p. 109) and he concluded: \"So, from the Walloon little towns and countryside, people came to the capital..\" The Dutch fortresses were liberated in Ath ( 27 September), Mons (29 September), Tournai (2 October), Namur (4 October) (with the help of people coming from Andenne, Fosses, Gembloux), Charleroi (5 October) (with people who came in their thousands).The same day that was also the case for Philippeville, , Dinant, Bouillon. In Flanders, the Dutch troops capitulated at the same time in Brugge, Ieper, Oostende, Menen, Oudenaarde, Geeraardsbergen (pp. 113–114), but nor in Ghent nor in Antwerp (only liberated on 17 October and 27 October).\nAgainst these interpretation, in any case for the troubles in Brussels, John W. Rooney Jr wrote: It is clear from the quantitative analysis that an overwhelming majority of revolutionaries were domiciled in Brussels or in the nearby suburbs and that the aid came from outside was minimal. For example, for the day of 23 September, 88% of dead and wounded lived in Brussels identified and if we add those residing in Brabant, it reached 95%. It is true that if you look at the birthplace of revolutionary given by the census, the number of Brussels falls to less than 60%, which could suggest that there was support \"national\" (to different provinces Belgian), or outside the city, more than 40%.But it is nothing, we know that between 1800 and 1830 the population of the capital grew by 75,000 to 103,000, this growth is due to the designation in 1815 in Brussels as a second capital of the Kingdom of the Netherlands and the rural exodus that accompanied the Industrial Revolution. It is therefore normal that a large part of the population of Brussels be originating provinces. These migrants came mainly from Flanders, which was hit hard by the crisis in the textile 1826-1830. This interpretation is also nationalist against the statements of witnesses: Charles Rogier said that there were neither in 1830 nor nation Belgian national sentiment within the population. The revolutionary Jean-Baptiste Nothomb ensures that \"the feeling of national unity is born today.\" As for Joseph Lebeau, he said that \"patriotism Belgian is the son of the revolution of 1830..\" Only in the following years as bourgeois revolutionary will \"legitimize ideological state power.\n\nA few years after the Belgian revolution in 1830, the historian Louis Dewez underlined that \"Belgium is shared into two people, Walloons and Flemings. The former are speaking French, the latter are speaking Flemish. The border is clear (...) The provinces which are back the Walloon line, i.e.: the Province of Liège, the Brabant wallon, the Province of Namur, the Province of Hainaut are Walloon [...] And the other provinces throughout the line [...] are Flemish. It is not an arbitrarian division or an imagined combination in order to support an opinion or create a system: it is a fact...\" Jules Michelet traveled in Wallonia in 1840 and we can read many times in his \"History of France\" his interest for Wallonia and the Walloons pp 35,120,139,172, 287, 297,300, 347,401, 439, 455, 468 (this page on the Culture of Wallonia, 476 (1851 edition published online)\n\nThe Walloon Region institutionally comprises also the German-speaking community of Belgium around Eupen, in the east of the region, next to Germany which ceded the area to Belgium after the First World War. Many of the 60,000 or so inhabitants of this very small community reject being considered as Walloon and – with their community executive leader Karl-Heinz Lambertz want to remain a federating unit, and to have all the powers of the Belgian Regions and Communities. Even if they do not want them absolutely and immediately (10 July 2008, official speech for the Flanders' national holiday).\n\n\nThe Manifesto for Walloon culture in 1983 was a major event of the History of Wallonia quoted in the important books about the region's history.\n\nThis list includes people from the region before it became known as Wallonia.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39734749", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39734749", "title": "Women in Vatican City", "text": "Women in Vatican City\n\nWomen comprise approximately 5% of the citizenry of Vatican City. According to the \"Herald Sun\" in March 2011, there were only 32 females out of 572 citizens issued with Vatican passports. One of them was a nun. On February 26, 2013, \"Worldcrunch\" reported that there were around 30 women who were citizens of Vatican City. In 2003, \"Worldcrunch\" had reported that there were 2 South American women, 3 Swiss women, 2 Polish women, and some Italian women. As of February 2013, the majority of the women were from Italy.\n\nAmong the women who lived in Vatican City was one of the daughters of an electrician, who later got married and \"lost her right to live\" in the city. Another woman who lives in Vatican City was Magdalena Wolińska-Riedi, who is a Polish translator and wife of one of the Swiss Guards.\n\nAmong the women who have citizenship in Vatican City, there is one officer in the military, two teachers (one teaches in high school, the other teaches in kindergarten), and one academic. Women obtain Vatican City citizenship by marriage (as a baptized Catholic) to their husbands; however such citizenship \"lasts only for the duration of their stay\" in Vatican City.\n\nIn the past, women were not allowed to open a bank account in Vatican City, but, during the leadership of Pope John Paul II and Pope Benedict XVI, the value of women in the city was highlighted. One of Pope Benedict XVI's assistant editors and confidential adviser was a woman. Her name is Ingrid Stampa. On April 21, 2013, \"The Telegraph\" reported that Pope Francis will be appointing \"more women to key Vatican\" positions. In addition to this, the \"L'Osservatore Romano\" - the daily newspaper in Vatican City - is now publishing supplementary pages that address women's issues. Women are not allowed to be ordained to the presbyterate or episcopate, though a commission is currently studying the question of whether women can serve as un-ordained female deacons (deaconesses).\n\nWomen (and men) visiting St. Peter's Basilica, the Sistine Chapel or the Vatican Museums in Vatican City are expected to wear appropriate attire. Low cut or sleeveless clothing, shorts, miniskirts and hats (for men, indoors) are not allowed. Women may or may not wear the traditional \"black hat or veil\". Dress code for Papal audiences is somewhat more formal. Women cannot wear clothing that does not cover the shoulders and the knees.\n\nNo elections are held in Vatican City, and consequently, neither male nor female citizens or residents have voting rights. The Pope, who serves as the head of state, is elected by the College of Cardinals of the Catholic Church. The College is part of the Holy See, which forms a separate sovereign entity from Vatican City. Cardinals in the Catholic Church are required, as of now, to be male, with voting Cardinals generally always Bishops, and only men are eligible to be elected Pope. With that being said, however, the cardinalate is a privilege and office bestowed by the Pope; it is not a separate, fourth degree of Holy Orders, along with deacon, priest, and Bishop, though it ranks above them, so theoretically, the laws could be amended to allow for women to be Cardinals, though that is very unlikely currently. Members of the Pontifical Commission for Vatican City State, which forms the legislature of Vatican City, are appointed by the Pope and must be cardinals.\n\nAs women are unable to vote, or hold any executive or legislative position in either the City State or the Holy See, Vatican City is the only country remaining with no voting or electoral rights for women.\n\nVatican City is one of two sovereign states that do not allow divorce, the other being the Republic of the Philippines.\n\nVatican City is one of six countries worldwide that ban abortion completely, even if the mother's life is in danger.\n\nIn September 2016, the High Authority of the Vatican approved the creation of \"Donne in Vaticano\", the first women-only association of the Vatican. The members of the association are journalists, theologians, and economists.\n\n"}
{"id": "13742587", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13742587", "title": "Yeyi people", "text": "Yeyi people\n\nThe WaYeyi (also: \"Yeyi\" or \"Bayei\", autoethonym: \"Mayeyi\") are Bantu-speaking people of north-western Botswana and north-eastern Namibia. The Yeyi immigrated to the area in the 18th century from the north, and lived in close cooperation with the San people, or \"Basarwa,\" who had lived in the area previously. They speak ShiYeyi, a language that was influenced by the San and exhibits the characteristic clicks.\n\nAccording to oral tradition, the baYei emigrated from the kingdom of the Lozi people in the 18th century, and were led into Ngamiland by the skilled fisherman and hunter Hankuzi. When the baYei met the baKhakwe people, Hankuzi married one of their women, possibly as a guarantee of peace. A number of immigration waves followed. The baYei learned many of the baKhakwe's survival skills, including new fishing techniques, while the baYei are credited with bringing the canoe-building technology to Ngamiland. The baYei also had connections to the Lozi in the north, and traded tobacco for iron with them. Iron was important in the baYei economy for producing spearheads and tools.\n\nIn the early 19th century the baTswana tribe known as baTawana arrived in the Ngamiland. After the arrival, many of the baYei became serfs, or \"batlhanka\", of the baTawana. Initially the servitude was voluntary in many cases, as it offered protection to attach oneself to a powerful household.\n\nIn Namibia, the Mayeyi were first recognised as an independent tribe in 1992; before they were covered under the Mafwe traditional authority. The seat of their \"khuta\" (royal homestead) is the settlement of Sangwali in the Judea Lyaboloma Constituency of the Zambezi Region. This is also the place where \"Batsara Batsapi\", the annual cultural festival of the Mayeyi people, is conducted.\n\nThe baYei had a matrilineal succession, i.e. the inheritor of a kingdom is the son of a sister to the king.\n\nThe baYei believed in a creator god who lived among the humans. One day the god became angry with the humans for their wickedness and went to heaven. He does not interfere much in the world, except for throwing down the occasional thunderbolt. The baYei also venerate ancestor spirits.\n\nCrops that are important for the baYei culture includes sorghum and tobacco.\n"}
