{"id": "20781814", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20781814", "title": "2nd parallel south", "text": "2nd parallel south\n\nThe 2nd parallel south is a circle of latitude that is 2 degrees south of the Earth's equatorial plane. It crosses the Atlantic Ocean, Africa, the Indian Ocean, Southeast Asia, Australasia, the Pacific Ocean and South America.\n\nStarting at the prime meridian and heading eastwards, the parallel 2° south passes through:\n\n"}
{"id": "8916288", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8916288", "title": "Allan Pred", "text": "Allan Pred\n\nAllan Richard Pred (1936 – 2007) was an internationally known American geographer and professor at the University of California at Berkeley \nHe wrote more than 20 books and monographs, translated into seven languages, and over 70 articles and book chapters.\n\nPred was born in the Bronx, New York City, in 1936. He enrolled at Antioch College in 1953, at age 16, and graduated first in his class in 1957. He received his Ph.D. in 1962 from the University of Chicago, and then became an Assistant Professor at Berkeley, and was appointed full professor in 1971 at the age of 34. He served as the chair of the UC Berkeley Department of Geography between 1979 and 1988, and was made a Professor of the Graduate School in 2005, the most senior Berkeley position.\n\nHe met his wife Hjördis, in San Francisco in 1962; they moved between Berkeley and Sweden on a yearly basis, raising bi-lingual children, Michele Pred and Joseph Pred. He has one grandchild, Linnea Allana Morlan Pred.\n\nHis books are required reading in multiple college courses.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46960817", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46960817", "title": "Andre G. Journel", "text": "Andre G. Journel\n\nAndré Georges Journel is a French American engineer who excelled in formulating and promoting geostatistics in the earth sciences and engineering, first from the Centre of Mathematical Morphology in Fontainebleau, France and later from Stanford University.\n\n\nAndré joined the Paris School of Mines research group at Fontainebleau, under the direction of Georges Matheron, as a Mining Project Engineer in 1969, moving to Head of Research four years later. He remained active primarily teaching courses, doing consulting work for mining companies around the world, and simultaneously formulating new methods often to solve pressing problems. From these days are his contributions to kriging with a trend and to stochastic simulation. The book with Charles Huijbregts is a culmination to his endeavors as mining geostatistician from his native country.\n\nJournel accepted a position as an Assistant Professor at the Department of Applied Earth Sciences in 1978. The physical relocation was shortly followed by a reorientation of his research from mining to petroleum engineering. He was promoted to full professor in 1986 and within the year appointed Chairman of the Department, serving for a period of 6 years. He was the mentor of several generations of students and enthusiastic promoter of joint research with industry through the Stanford Center for Reservoir Forecasting that he founded also in 1986, remaining as its Director until 2007. Among his numerous research interest and accomplishments, it is worth mentioning his contributions to non-parametric geostatistics, non-Gaussian geostatistics, training-image based simulation and probabilistic data integration. André has been an Emeritus Professor since 2010.\nAndré's accomplishments made him the recipient of prestigious awards, including the William Christian Krumbein Medal from the International Association for Mathematical Geosciences (1989), the Stanford University School of Earth Sciences Teaching Award (1995), and the Lucas Gold Medal from the Society of Petroleum Engineers (1998).<br> Most notable honors are his appointment as Director of the NATO Institute of Geostatistics (1983); selection as the Keynote Speaker at the 23rd APCOM Congress (1992), Geostatistics for the Next Century Symposium (1993) and the Fifth International Geostatistics Congress (1996), promotion to the Donald and Donald M. Steel Professor of Earth Sciences at Stanford University (1994); and election as member of the National Academy of Engineering (1998).\n\n"}
{"id": "3212723", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3212723", "title": "Antokolsky", "text": "Antokolsky\n\nAntokolsky (spelling variations: Antokolskiy, Antokolski) () is a Russian surname. It derives from the Polish form Antokol of the toponym Antakalnis, a neighborhood of Vilnius, Lithuania. The notable bearers of this surname were:\n"}
{"id": "617117", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=617117", "title": "Aram-Naharaim", "text": "Aram-Naharaim\n\nAram-Naharaim ( \"’Aram Naharayim\"; Aramaic: ארם נהריים) is the biblical term for a region in Upper Mesopotamia along elbow of the Euphrates River. It is mentioned five times in the Hebrew Bible or Old Testament. In Genesis, it is used somewhat interchangeably with the names \"Paddan Aram\" and \"Haran\" to denote the place where Abraham stayed briefly with his father Terah's family after leaving Ur of the Chaldees, while \"en route\" to Canaan (Gen. 11:31), and the place from which later patriarchs obtained wives, rather than marry daughters of Canaan.\n\nBoth Josephus and the Septuagint translate the name as \"Mesopotamia\". Ancient writers later used the name \"Mesopotamia\" for all of the land between the Tigris and Euphrates. However, the usage of the Hebrew name \"Aram-Naharaim\" does not match this later usage of \"Mesopotamia\", the Hebrew term referring to a northern region within Mesopotamia.\n\nThe translation of the name as \"Mesopotamia\" was not consistent - the Septuagint also uses a more precise translation \"Mesopotamia of Syria\" as well as \"Rivers of Syria\".\n\n"}
{"id": "48824840", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48824840", "title": "Atlantic Shield", "text": "Atlantic Shield\n\nThe Atlantic Shield is large geological shield located in eastern South America. The shield is made up of the cratons of São Luís, São Francisco, Luís Alves and Río de la Plata.\n"}
{"id": "14889231", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14889231", "title": "Azraq Wetland Reserve", "text": "Azraq Wetland Reserve\n\nThe Azraq Wetland Reserve is a nature reserve located near the town of Azraq in the eastern desert of Jordan. An oasis for migratory birds, Azraq was established in 1978 and covers . The natural springs dried up in 1992 and most migratory birds subsequently moved away from the area. Artificial springs are maintained today in order to keep the site a tourist destination.\n\nThe wetlands were created some 250,000 years ago as a result of being fed by aquifers that corresponded with geological changes. Azraq has, since ancient times, been the crossroads of both human trade routes and bird migrations. Millions of cubic meters of freshwater attracted camels caravans carrying spices and herbs traveling between Arabia, Mesopotamia, and Syria. Millions of migrating birds stopped in Azraq between Africa and Europe. However, in the 1960s, water began to be pumped to support Amman's booming population. In 1978, the Royal Society for the Conservation of Nature established Azraq as a wetlands reserve. By 1992, however, the springs dried up, and the aquifers that had once gushed ceased to provide. All the water buffalos of Azraq died, and many migrating birds went to the Sea of Galilee instead.\n\nThe Azraq wetlands have been described as in the state of \"ecological collapse\". RSCN continues to fight an uphill battle against rising population and a growing demand for water. The of water per year provided by the Jordanian Ministry of Water to maintain Azraq is only sufficient to restore Azraq to 10% of its original size. Today, there are more than 500 illegal wells still pumping water from Azraq. In just 37 years the numbers of migrant birds have reduced from 347,000 on February 2, 1967 to 1200 birds on February 2, 2000. Azraq provides drinking water for one-quarter of Amman. once covered by wetlands have now dried up.\n\nRSCN maintains an Azraq Lodge several kilometers away from the wetlands which features a gift shop, restaurant, 16 rooms in a 1940s British military hospital, and a reception area.\n\n The Marsh Trail is a raised platform going through the reserve that is approximately . Sections of the trail are on land going through the reeds. Halfway through the trail is the mud-brick \"rustic bird hide\", overlooking one of the reserve's lagoons, which is used for bird watching\n\nMigratory birds come from Anatolia, Scandinavia, Siberia, and Africa, stopping in Azraq during the long journey. The partial restoration of the wetlands by RSCN have resulted in the return of several migratory species, such as the hoopoe lark, Cetti's warbler, the desert finch, and the marsh harrier. Among the 280 recorded migratory species in Azraq are the ruff, avocet, little stint, and the little ringed plover. Additionally, several birds of prey stop in Azraq, such as the European honey buzzard and Montagu's harrier.\n\nFrom ancient times, Azraq, ecologically, was a continuation of Africa. In this time period, many animals often characterized as African lived in Azraq. Among these species were the Syrian wild ass, wild camel, rhinoceros, hippopotamus, Asian elephant, gazelle, aurochs, Asiatic cheetah, Syrian ostrich, Asiatic lion, and Arabian oryx. All of these animals, except the gazelle, are now extinct in Azraq, and Jordan alike.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1132278", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1132278", "title": "Beagle Channel", "text": "Beagle Channel\n\nBeagle Channel () is a strait in Tierra del Fuego Archipelago on the extreme southern tip of South America between Chile and Argentina. The channel separates the larger main island of Isla Grande de Tierra del Fuego from various smaller islands including the islands of Picton, Lennox and Nueva; Navarino; Hoste; Londonderry; and Stewart. The channel's eastern area forms part of the border between Chile and Argentina and the western area is entirely within Chile.\n\nThe Beagle Channel, the Straits of Magellan to the north, and the open-ocean Drake Passage to the south are the three navigable passages around South America between the Pacific and Atlantic Oceans. However, most commercial shipping uses the open-ocean Drake Passage.\n\nThe Beagle Channel is about long and is about wide at its narrowest point. It extends from Nueva Island in the east to Darwin Sound and Cook Bay of the Pacific Ocean in the west. Some from its western end it divides into two branches, north and south of Gordon Island. The southwest branch between Hoste Island and Gordon Island enters Cook Bay. The northwest branch between Gordon Island and Isla Grande enters Darwin Sound connecting to the Pacific Ocean by the O'Brien Channel and the Ballenero Channel. The biggest settlement on the channel is Ushuaia in Argentina followed by Puerto Williams in Chile. These are two of the southernmost settlements of the world.\n\nAlthough it is navigable by large ships, there are safer waters to the south (Drake Passage) and to the north (Strait of Magellan). Under the Treaty of Peace and Friendship of 1984 between Chile and Argentina, ships of other nations navigate with a Chilean pilot between the Strait of Magellan and Ushuaia through the Magdalena Channel and the Cockburn Channel to the Pacific Ocean, then by the Ballenero Channel, the O'Brien Channel and the northwest branch of the Beagle Channel.\n\nThe Beagle Channel develops between several islands; to the north lies Argentine-Chilean Isla Grande de Tierra del Fuego, to the south Hoste, Navarino, and Picton and Nueva, which were claimed by Argentina until 1984. The latter two lie at the bi-national eastern entrance to the channel while the western entrance is wholly inside Chile. The western entrance of Beagle Channel is divided by Gordon Island into two channels. Some minor islands exist inside the channel among them Snipe Islet and Gable Island. Except for eastern Isla Grande de Tierra del Fuego and Gable Island all islands mentioned here belong to Chile.\n\nThe Yaghan peoples settled the islands along the Murray Channel approximately 10,000 years before present. There are notable archaeological sites indicating such early Yaghan settlement at locations such as Bahia Wulaia on Isla Navarino, site of the \"Bahia Wulaia Dome Middens\".\n\nThe channel was named after the ship HMS \"Beagle\" during its first hydrographic survey of the coasts of the southern part of South America which lasted from 1826 to 1830. During that expedition, under the overall command of Commander Phillip Parker King, \"Beagle\"'s captain Pringle Stokes committed suicide and was replaced by captain Robert FitzRoy. The ship continued the survey in the second voyage of \"Beagle\" under the command of captain FitzRoy, who took Charles Darwin along as a self-funding supernumerary, giving him opportunities as an amateur naturalist. Darwin had his first sight of glaciers when they reached the channel on 29 January 1833, and wrote in his field notebook \"It is scarcely possible to imagine anything more beautiful than the beryl-like blue of these glaciers, and especially as contrasted with the dead white of the upper expanse of snow.\"\n\nSeveral small islands (Picton, Lennox and Nueva) up to the Cape Horn were the subject of the long-running Beagle conflict between Chile and Argentina; by the terms of a Treaty of Peace and Friendship of 1984 between Chile and Argentina they are now part of Chile. From the 1950s to 1970s several incidents involving the Chilean and Argentine Navy occurred in the waters of the Beagle Channel, for example the 1958 Snipe incident, the 1967 \"Cruz del Sur\" incident and the shelling of \"Quidora\" the same year. See List of incidents during the Beagle conflict.\n\nBeagle Channel is a prominent area to watch rare, endemic dolphins, and the less-studied pygmy right whales.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44227968", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44227968", "title": "Bernouilli Conservation Reserve", "text": "Bernouilli Conservation Reserve\n\nBernouilli Conservation Reserve is a protected area located in the Australian state of South Australia in the gazetted locality of Cape Jaffa about south west of the township of Kingston SE in the state's Limestone Coast region. The conservation reserve was proclaimed under the \"Crown Land Management Act 2009\" in 1993. The name is derived from Cap Bernouilli, the former name of the headland of Cape Jaffa. The conservation reserve is classified as an IUCN Category VI protected area.\n\n"}
{"id": "3275537", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3275537", "title": "Boxen (C. S. Lewis)", "text": "Boxen (C. S. Lewis)\n\nBoxen is a fictional world that C. S. Lewis (\"Jack\") and his brother W. H. Lewis (\"Warren\") created as children. The world of Boxen was created when Jack's stories about Animal-Land and Warnie's stories about India were brought together. In \"Surprised by Joy\", Jack explains that the union of Animal-Land and India took place \"sometime in the late eighteenth century (their eighteenth century, not ours)\".\n\nDuring a time when influenza was ravaging many families, the Lewis brothers were forced to stay indoors and entertain themselves by reading. They read whatever books they could find, both those written for children and adults. Influenced by Beatrix Potter's animals, C.S. Lewis wrote about Animal-Land, complete with details about its economics, politics/government, and history, as well as illustrations of buildings and characters.\n\nThe stories were published posthumously as \"Boxen: The Imaginary World of the Young C. S. Lewis\" Edited by Walter Hooper and first published by London: Collins May 28, 1985. First American edition: San Diego: Harcourt, Brace, Javanovich, October 17, 1985. (republished as \"Boxen: Childhood Chronicles Before Narnia\").\n"}
{"id": "47316382", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47316382", "title": "China–Vietnam border", "text": "China–Vietnam border\n\nThe border between China and Vietnam is the line that limits the territories of China and Vietnam.\n\nThe land border measures about . It starts at the Tripoint with Laos , and goes to the Gulf of Tonkin , passing in essentially mountainous areas inhabited by ethnic minorities. Whilst both sides agree on land borders, the territorial dispute over the Spratly and Paracel Islands has left maritime borders between the two nations undefined.\n\nIn several areas, the land border between the two countries runs along rivers. In particular, the border follows the Red River on its section from the mouth of the Longbao River (near Wudaokou village in Hekou County) to the mouth of the Nanxi River (between downtown Hekou and Lào Cai. The lower sections of the Longbao and Nanxi are border rivers as well.\n\nThe border between China and Vietnam (which then part of French Indochina) was demarcated pursuant to the Treaty of Tientsin (1885), after the end of the Sino-French War.\n\nDuring the Chinese Civil War, China used the border near Vietnam as a refueling station while also giving aid to the Vietnamese who were fighting the French in the First Indochina War.\n\nA number of crossing points for vehicular and pedestrian traffic operate on the border. There are two railway crossings: between Hekou and Lào Cai (where the narrow-gauge Kunming–Hai Phong Railway crosses the Nanxi River over a bridge), and between Pingxiang and Đồng Đăng (Friendship Pass), where standard-gauge trains can cross the border on the Nanning-Hanoi line.\n\n"}
{"id": "43450431", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43450431", "title": "Comanagement in Canada", "text": "Comanagement in Canada\n\nComanagement, also called community-based management, community-based resource management, cooperative management, joint management, and collaborative management, in the broadest terms refers to the administration of a particular place being shared between two entities. In Canada, it usually refers to agreements between government agencies and representatives of Aboriginal peoples in Canada to jointly make land use and resource management decisions about a tract of government-controlled land or a fishery.\n\nParks Canada co-manages several Canadian national parks with local Aboriginals has the result of land claims agreements. Ivvavik National Park in the Yukon was created in 1984 and is part of the Inuvialuit Final Agreement. Likewise, the Labrador Inuit Land Claims Agreement dictates co-management of Torngat Mountains National Park in Labrador, created in 2005. Proposals for new parks, such as Thaydene Nene National Park (proposed) in the Northwest Territories typically involve some kind of negotiations over co-management. Not only national parks, but also provincial ones also are subject to co-management; the Hay-Zama Lakes wetlands complex in Alberta is an example. A separate but related phenomenon is the joint management of parks by two governments without an Aboriginal partner. For example thefederal government and a province can jointly manage a park such as the Saguenay–St. Lawrence Marine Park in Quebec, as can two provinces such as Cypress Hills Interprovincial Park in Alberta and Saskatchewan.\n\nThe West Coast of Vancouver Island Aquatic Management Board is an example of co-management in fisheries. It consists of two members appointed by each of the Government of Canada, Province of British Columbia, the Nuu-chah-nulth Tribal Council, the regional districts, as well as eight non-government members jointly appointed by the levels of government from the wider community.\n"}
{"id": "932042", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=932042", "title": "Dufourspitze", "text": "Dufourspitze\n\nThe Dufourspitze is the highest peak of Monte Rosa, a huge ice-covered mountain massif in the Alps. Dufourspitze is the highest mountain peak of both Switzerland and the Pennine Alps and is also the second-highest mountain of the Alps and Europe outside the Caucasus. It is located between Switzerland (Canton of Valais) and Italy (Piedmont and Aosta Valley).\n\nFollowing a long series of attempts beginning in the early nineteenth century, Monte Rosa's summit, then still called \"Höchste Spitze\" (), was first reached on 1 August, the Swiss National celebration day, in 1855 from Zermatt by a party of eight climbers led by three guides: Matthäus and Johannes Zumtaugwald, Ulrich Lauener, Christopher and James Smyth, Charles Hudson, John Birkbeck and Edward Stephenson.\n\nThe peak is distinguished by the name \"Dufourspitze\" (in German, lit. \"Dufour Peak\"; , ). This replaced the former name \"Höchste Spitze\" () that was indicated on the Swiss maps before the Federal Council, on January 28, 1863, decided to rename the mountain in honor of Guillaume-Henri Dufour. Dufour was a Swiss engineer, topographer, co-founder of the Red Cross and army general who led the Sonderbund campaign. This decision followed the completion of the Dufour Map, a series of military topographical maps created under the command of Dufour.\n\nThe point just east of the Dufourspitze and only 2 metres lower, the Dunantspitze, was renamed in 2014 in honor of Henry Dunant, the main founder of the Red Cross.\n\nThe Dufourspitze of Monte Rosa is the most elevated point of Valais and Switzerland, although it is not the most prominent of the country, that distinction belonging to the Finsteraarhorn, nor the most isolated, that distinction belonging to Piz Bernina. The Swiss national map gives an elevation of for the summit, which is 4,441 metres above Lake Maggiore, Switzerland's lowest point. The height difference between the summit and the plains of northern Italy, from where Monte Rosa is well visible, reaches over . Monte Rosa has a topographic prominence of , the Great St Bernard Pass being the lowest col between it and the culminating point of the Alps. A 2000 survey, involving universities and the offices of cartography of Italy and Switzerland and part of the TOWER project (Top of the World Elevations Remeasurement), was made in order to record a more precise elevation for Monte Rosa. The result was from the Italian side and from the Swiss side, with a margin of error of 0.1 m. Monte Rosa succeeded the Finsteraarhorn as the highest summit of Switzerland in 1815, when Valais joined the Swiss Confederation.\n\nThough the Mediterranean can hardly be visible from the summit of Monte Rosa because of intervening mountains, the view to the south extends to the Apennines, the mountains of Corsica and the Maritime Alps. On the north side the view extends to the Jura and further to the Vosges, the Swiss Plateau being mostly hidden by the high range of the Bernese Alps.\n\nMonte Rosa could be seen from many places on the south side of the Alps and it had been mentioned in many travel diaries. At the end of the 15th century some outlines of the mountain may possibly have been painted by Leonardo da Vinci into the background of the Madonna of the Rocks or other pictures. Da Vinci explored the Italian side of the mountain and made some observations, though there is but scanty evidence that he had climbed even a minor summit in the neighbourhood. He was intringued by the permanent snow lying on the mountain and the darkness of the sky above him, he wrote:\n\nAt the end of the eighteenth century, the people of the Italian valleys believed that a lost valley existed, hidden away between the glaciers of the great chain. The discovery of the valley was due to Joseph Beck of Gressoney-Saint-Jean. He put together a party, including his brother Valentin, and the Gressoney mountain guides Sebastian Linty, Joseph Zumstein, Nicolas (Niklaus) Vincent, François Castel and Étienne Lisco. They set out on a Sunday of August 1778. They started from their sleeping places at midnight, and roped carefully. They had furnished themselves with climbing irons and alpenstocks. At the head of the glacier, they encountered a slope of rock devoid of snow, which they climbed.\n\nThe valley, in fact, was none other than the upper valley of Zermatt, and the pass, which these early explorers had reached, was the Lysjoch, where, to this day, the rock on which they rested bears the name that they gave it, the \"Entdeckungsfels\" (German: \"Rock of Discovery\"). Beck's party thus reached a height of 4,178 metres (13,707 ft), probably a record in the Alps at that times.\n\nCount Morozzo of Turin was inspired by the view of Monte Rosa and in 1787 he tried to reach its summit from the east face. However he did not go very high, and the mountain looked much too inaccessible to encourage him to proceed further. He reached the place of the actual Marinelli hut, 1,500 m below the summit. The route on the east face was opened only in 1872. In 1789, following the recommendation of the Count, Horace-Bénédict de Saussure went to Macugnaga to explore the mountain. He climbed Pizzo Bianco, a 3215 m summit facing the mountain from the east and measured the altitude of Monte Rosa. He found a height of 2430 toises.\n\nA first serious attempt was made in 1801 by a doctor of Alagna, Pietro Giordani. He reached alone a great height when climbing a 4,046 metres high point on the south-east ridge of the Vincent Pyramid, later named \"Giordanispétz\" or \"Punta Giordani\" in his honour. He arrived too late to proceed to the Vincent Pyramid summit and night drove him away. He had to sleep in a cleft of ice at about 14,000 feet. He wrote an account of his exploit: After an eloquent description of the view, he expresses his annoyance at the lack of scientific instruments, and the lateness of the hour which prevented him from ascending \"Monte Rosa\" itself.\n\nThe 4215 m Vincent Pyramid summit was eventually successfully climbed on 15 August 1819 by Johann Niklaus and Joseph Vincent from Gressoney, after whom the peak has been named. The brothers Vincent tried to reach the highest summit again the next year, together with Joseph Zumstein, and guides and porters. On August 1, 1820, they reached a 4,563 metres high secondary summit, later named \"Zumsteinspitze\". The climb was dangerous, as the party had to traverse under threatening walls of ice; they also had great difficulties on descent, because the afternoon sun had melted the snow on the slopes. They used mules to carry their equipment as far as the snow-line. During the expedition they thought they had climbed the true highest peak, but when they reached the summit they found out it was only a subpeak of Monte Rosa. Zumstein was anxious to return later and reach the highest summit, but his desire did not materialize.\n\nThe first approaches to the summit were made from the northern slopes over the Gorner glacier via the Silbersattel (4,510 m). This pass was first reached on August 12, 1847, by Matthias and Johann zum Taugwald (guides from Zermatt whose name is also written \"Zumtaugwald\"), Johann Brantschen and Joseph Moser guiding the French professors Victor Puisieux and Edouard Ordinaire. Precisely a year later (12 August 1848), Johann Madutz from Matt, Glarus, and Matthias Zumtaugwald guided the Swiss theologian to the pass for an ascent of the highest summit. Ulrich had to give up, but the guides proceeded to climb to what they thought to be the Eastern summit of the Dufourspitze (\"Ostspitze\", since 2014 Dunantspitze, 4632 m) and established a new altitude record in Switzerland. The descent over the same route was so tricky that Madutz at places had to lower down Zum Taugwald by rope. Three years later, on 22 August 1851, Johann Zumtaugwald returned, with Peter Taugwalder and Peter Inderbinen and the Swiss botanist brothers Adolf and Hermann Schlagintweit to repeat this ascent. They did not dare to traverse to the western summit, which the Schlagintweits estimated to be 7 meters higher. In 1891, W.A.B. Coolidge analyzed these ascents and concluded that both parties had reached the 4,618 m Grenzgipfel instead, which is a mere 50 meters to the east of Ostspitze. He transferred the honor of first climbing the Ostgipfel to Ulrich Lauener from Lauterbrunnen and the brothers Christopher, Edmund and James G. Smyth from Great Yarmouth, who reached the Ostspitze on September 1, 1854 from the Silbersattel. Some sources have the Zumtaugwald brothers also among this party. Zumtaugwald brothers returned twice more to the East summit, Johann and Matthias 10 days later (11 Sep 1854) with Edward Shirley Kennedy and Benedict Leir, and Matthias and Stephan later again with Edward Levi Ames. On these five occasions they never tried the difficult traverse to the western summit, also because the summits were both mapped as 4,638 m high at the time. Partially with the technical difficulty (UIAA III) of the route from Silbersattel in mind, many consider the Madutz and Zumtaugwald ascent in 1849 the true first ascent of Monta Rosa.\nThe first ascent of the western summit finally took place on August 1, 1855, by the above guides Matthias and Johann zum Taugwald and Ulrich Lauener and two of the Smyth brothers (James Greenville and Christopher). They were joined by the English gentlemen John Birkbeck, Charles Hudson and Edward Stephenson. Deeming the approach from the east summit unfeasible, the guides devised a route over the junction of the Monte Rosa and Grenz glaciers and over the west ridge directly to the west summit. Not two weeks later, on 13 August 1855, Johann and his brother Peter zum Taugwald guided eight more people, including Johann Jakob Weilenmann, to the summit over the same route. The west ridge route immediately became very popular and is still the normal route to the Dufourspitze.\n\nThe Irish physicist John Tyndall was guided to the summit in a group led by Ulrich Lauener in August 1858, but returned the next day (or week?) to make the first solo ascent of Dufourspitze on 17 August 1858, which he described in his account, \"Glaciers of the Alps\".\n\nAfter encountering a party of climbers guided by Lauener, Tyndall reached alone the summit:\nAmong mountain guides, the eastern wall had the reputation of being unconquerable. Ferdinand Imseng was convinced that the long snow couloir in the middle of the face could be ascended. He succeeded in convincing other climbers and, on 22 July 1872, Richard Pendlebury, William and Charles Taylor, Ferdinand Imseng, Gabriel Spechtenhauser and Giovanni Oberto began the ascent from Macugnaga. They were aware of the objective dangers of the wall but they decided to go as high as possible, without compromising their lives. After a bivouac on the actual Marinelli hut emplacement, they headed towards the Grenzsattel. Suddenly, when they arrived near the Grenzsattel, an avalanche started and rivers of snow began to flow everywhere around the climbers. They were able to reach the safe rocks of the Grenzgipfel just in time to save their lives. They finally reached the summit and descended to Riffelalp on the other side, concluding an 18-hour journey.\n\nThis ascent made Ferdinand Imseng a famous mountain guide. He lost his life in 1881 on the east wall during the third ascent with Damiano Marinelli and guide Battista Pedranzini. On 8 August, they were caught by an avalanche and brought 1,200 metres down. The accident was reported by a porter who survived. The couloir was then named \"Canalone Marinelli\".\n\nIn 1889 Achille Ratti, who became later Pope Pius XI, made the first traverse from Macugnaga to Zermatt by the Zumsteinjoch. After climbing the Dufourspitze, he spent the night on the summit with his companions.\n\nVisiting Zermatt in 1894, the young Winston Churchill insisted on an ascent of Monte Rosa rather than of the Matterhorn, not only because of its superior height but also because the guides' fee was substantially less.\n\nMore recently, on August 1 (which happens to be the Swiss National Day), 2005, the Swiss Minister of Treasure Joseph Deiss climbed the Dufourspitze. The expedition marked the 150th anniversary of the first ascent.\n\nThe Monte Rosa Hut (2,883 m) is the only mountain hut in the massif owned by the Swiss Alpine Club. It is situated on the \"Plattje\", a rocky island between the Gorner and Grenz glaciers. It is accessible from Rotenboden, a station on the Gornergratbahn line. The hut was inaugurated in 1894 and rebuilt in 1940. In 2009, a new high technology mountain hut was inaugurated. The five-story crystal-shaped building is designed to obtain 90 per cent of its power needs from the sun and will be used as a research station.\n\nThe other huts are owned by the Italian Alpine Club, among them the Regina Margherita Hut located at 4,559 metres on the Signalkuppe. Inaugurated in 1893 and replaced in 1979, it is still the highest construction in Europe, which include a laboratory and observatory.\n\nOther huts owned by the Italian Alpine Club are the Marinelli Hut (3,036 m), used for the ascent of the east face, and the Bivacco Città di Gallarate (3,960 m), located near the summit of the Jägerhorn.\n\nThe start from the Monte Rosa Hut. The normal route is mainly a glacier itinerary on the west slopes of Monte Rosa (Monte Rosa Glacier), with the final rocky west ridge to the summit. Although the itinerary itself is not difficult, it requires physical endurance and a good acclimatization.\n\nThe route starts from the Marinelli Hut and follows the steep Marinelli couloir on the east face. It is a long and dangerous route and has to be ascended very early in the morning on cold days in order to decrease the risk of avalanches.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24633961", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24633961", "title": "El Malpais National Conservation Area", "text": "El Malpais National Conservation Area\n\nThe El Malpais National Conservation Area is a federally protected conservation area in the U.S. state of New Mexico. The El Malpais National Conservation area was established in 1987 and is managed by the Bureau of Land Management as part of the National Landscape Conservation System. The adjoining El Malpais National Monument was established at the same time and is managed by the National Park Service.\n\nThe El Malpais NCA includes two wilderness areas — the West Malpais Wilderness and Cebolla Wilderness Area — covering almost .\n\nEl Malpais translates to \"the badlands\" in Spanish and is pronounced Mal-(rhymes with wall)-pie-ees. The El Malpais National Conservation Area was established to protect nationally significant geological, archaeological, ecological, cultural, scenic, scientific, and wilderness resources surrounding the Grants Lava Flows.\n\nIn addition to the two wilderness areas, the NCA includes dramatic sandstone cliffs, canyons, La Ventana Natural Arch, the Chain of Craters Back Country Byway and the Narrows Picnic Area. There are many opportunities for photography, hiking, camping and wildlife viewing within this unique NCA.\n\nThere are two visitor centers that serve the NCA, both off of I-40. El Malpais Visitor Center, operated jointly with the National Park Service, is located on the south side of exit 85. The Bureau of Land Management Ranger Station is located about 8 miles south of exit 89 on State Highway 117.\n\nFor more than 10,000 years people have interacted with the El Malpais landscape. Historic and prehistoric Cultural landscape sites provide connections to past times. More than mere artifacts, these cultural resources are kept alive by the spiritual and physical presence of contemporary Indian groups, including the Puebloan peoples of Acoma, Laguna and Zuni, and the Ramah Navajo. These tribes continue their ancestral uses of El Malpais including gathering plant materials, paying respect, and renewing ties.\n\n"}
{"id": "6097413", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6097413", "title": "Frenchman's Pass", "text": "Frenchman's Pass\n\nFrenchman Pass is a narrow passage on the island of Aruba, between coral cliffs above the area known as Spanish Lagoon. From the pass one can see the remains of the Balashi Gold Mill.\n\nLegend has it that French pirates tried to invade Aruba in the early 17th century and were confronted by Indians in this narrow passage above Spanish Lagoon. After this encounter, the passage became known as “Franse Pas” or “Rooi Frances” in Papiamento, which translates to “Frenchman Pass” in English. Many Indians were killed during the invasion, and today inhabitants near \"Frenchman pass\" claim they hear crying noises from the Indians during the evening. Some say the Indian ghosts are awake and haunting the area known as Spanish Lagoon.\nThis early period of Aruba’s history is not well documented, so history depends on legend and stories that are passed down from generation to generation.\n"}
{"id": "31199415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31199415", "title": "Geology of Taiwan", "text": "Geology of Taiwan\n\nTaiwan is active geologically, formed on a complex convergent boundary between the Yangtze Subplate of the Eurasian Plate to the west and north, the Okinawa Plate on the north-east, the Philippine Plate on the east and south, and the Sunda Plate to the southwest. Subduction changes direction at Taiwan.\nThe upper part of the crust on the island is primarily made up of a series of terranes, mostly old island arcs which have been forced together by the collision of the forerunners of the Eurasian Plate and the Philippine Sea Plate, which is moving to the northeast. These have been further uplifted as a result of the detachment of a portion of the Eurasian Plate as it was subducted beneath remnants of the Philippine Sea Plate, a process which left the crust under Taiwan more buoyant.\n\nSouth of Taiwan, the Philippine Sea Plate is subducting under the Sunda Plate, forming the Luzon Volcanic Arc (including Green Island and Orchid Island). The east and south of the island are a complex system of belts formed by, and part of the zone of, active collision between the North Luzon Trough portion of the Luzon Volcanic Arc and the Eurasian Plate, where accreted portions of the Luzon Arc and Luzon forearc form the eastern Coastal Range and parallel inland Taitung Longitudinal Valley of Taiwan respectively.\n\nTo the northeast, the Philippine Sea Plate is subducting under the Okinawa Plate, forming the Ryukyu Volcanic Arc.\n\nThe Haian Range or Coastal Range terrane belongs to the Luzon Volcanic Arc (呂宋島火山弧), and is on the Philippine Sea Plate (菲律賓海板塊). West of this is the Longitudinal Valley or Huatung Valley, an active depositional zone in a rift valley. West of this is the Eastern Central Range terrane, part of the continental base that has been upturned. The western side of the range is the Western Central Range terrane, which is metamorphosed earlier Tertiary clastic sediments. The Lishan Fault separates the Hsuehshan Range terrane Eocene to Oligocene sandstone and shale. The Chukou Fault (觸口斷層) provides the boundary for the Western Foothills terrane, which is shallow marine detritus from Miocene to Pleistocene. A deformation front forms the boundary with the undeformed coastal plains alluvium, which is still depositing.\n\nThe Eastern Central Range terrane can be divided into the Tailuko belt on the west with greenschist metamorphism and the Yuli belt on the east with blueschist metamorpism. The two metamorphic belts are possibly separated by a fault called Shoufeng fault, but this is unproven.\n\nThe oldest exposed rocks are heavily metamorphosed and found in the Central Mountains. Poor quality fossil evidence suggests an origin in the Permian Period. They form a band of rock from Nan'ao in the north to inland of Jinfeng on the eastern flank of the Central Mountain Range. The band is 30 km wide in the north and narrows to the south. These earlier rocks are heavily metamorphosed. They also occur as a basement beneath the western part of the island. They make up the Danana'ao Group or Tananao Schist. This group consists of the Kainanagang Gneiss, Tailuge Marble, and Changchun Schist.\n\nThe Yuli Schist is Cretaceous in age and consists of black schist and some greenschist, glaucophane schist, and spotted slate. It is the easternmost part and extends from Chian southwards to the west of the Chihpen hot springs in a belt about 150 km long. Although the dark colour of the black schist is due to carbon, carbon is less than 2% of the content. The minerals found are quartz, mica, chlorite, albite, sphene, and graphite.\n\nThe Changchun Schist being mostly greenschist is found on the western side and forms thick beds. It is found along with smaller amounts of chert, and black schist. The rock is foliated dark green rock containing chlorite, epidote, quartz, calcite, biotite, albite and actinolite. They are derived from mafic volcanic rocks. These rocks can host copper sulfide ores.\n\nSiliceous schists are coloured grey, they are metamorphosed sandstone, rich in quartz. Quartzite and chert bands can be found, and they are commonly associated with the black schist.\n\nThe Chiuchu Formation or Tailuge Marble forms a band from Tailuko in the north to a point between Wulu and Kuanshan in the south. The limestone is mined in quarries south of Suao for cement manufacture. Although the colour is usually a shade of grey, there are also black or white limestone, which is chopped into blocks for building purposes. Dolomite is also found along with the limestone particularly at Chingchangshan, Hopingchi, and Mukuashan.\n\nThe Kainangan Gneiss or Kanagan Formation occurs in several elongated bodies. The gneiss derived from sedimentary rocks contains coarse grained quartz, biotite, and albitic plagioclase. There is also orthogneiss derived from granite. This is light grey and contains sodic plagioclase, quartz, biotite, and muscovite. Within the gneiss there are pegmatite dikes containing quartz, feldspar and mica.\nOther igneous rocks found in the old metamorphic belt are amphibolite and dolerite dikes. Serpentinite is found 5 km west of Fengtien (奉天). It contains exploited deposits of nephrite, talc and asbestos. Wanjung Station (萬榮) is close to more outcrops of serpentenite. Tamayenshan block northwest of Juisui (瑞穗) and the Tsenghuanshan block 10 km west of Juisui are significant ultramafic outcrops.\n\nGreen serpentinite from near Yuli makes a good quality building stone. A band of ultramafic rocks extends for 25 km north of Litao, Taitung (離島).\n\nThe area was subjected to the Nanao Orogeny around 85 Ma which involved the granite intrusion and regional metamorphism. Rifting that opened the South China Sea around 40 Ma may be connected with some dolerite intrusions. The Penglai Orogeny started about 10 Ma and continues at the present time.\n\nThe most recently added part of the island is the Coastal Range on the east coast from Taitung City in the south to Hualien City in the north. The range is the continuation of the Luzon arc. The age is Neogene and the rock consist of melange and volcaniclastics. The rock units are firstly Chimei Volcanics Miocene andesite. Next is the Tuluanshan Formation, consisting of tuff, then Takangou Formation, consisting of sediments such as shale and sandstone that contain volcanic particles. The Lichi Formation consists of melange. It is made of mud containing blocks of other stone such as sandstone and ophiolite. It is found on the southern half of the west side of the Coastal range. When this erodes, badlands are formed. Because it is a mixture of stone, the Lichi Formation is hard to date, but is likely to be from Pliocene.\n\nThe Pinanshan conglomerate is found on Pinanshan Hill and along the Pinantachi stream north of Taitung (台東). The constituents are 5–15 cm cobbles erodes by freshwater from the Central Range. It formed somewhere from middle to late Pleistocene, and indicates the plate collision had taken place.\n\nThe Milun Conglomerate is to the north of Hualien. This has also gone under the names of Beiron Conglomerate Formation and Milunpi Conglomerate. It is tilted at 30°. It is undated but is likely from Pleistocene.\n\nShibachongxi Formation is from the Eocene consisting of slate and then beds of metamorphosed sandstone. The total thickness is up to 1000 m.\n\nDajian Formation consists of sandstone from the upper Eocene, up to 2700 meters thick.\n\nXichun Formation slate and phyllite is from the lower Oligocene. The thickness is from 0.6 to 3 km.\n\nSiling Formation coarse sandstone in thick beds is from the Oligocene.\n\nShuichungliu Formation form the Oligocene contains argillaceous slate and graywacke.\n\nBilushan Formation contains slate and phyllite from the Eocene.\n\nLushan Formation from the Miocene contains shale slate and sandstone.\n\nAodi Formation contemporary\n\nSule Formation slate and sandstone from the later Miocene.\n\nThe west part of the island exposes deformed and metamorphosed Cenozoic sediments, overlaid by Quaternary piedmont region in the flat plains on the west coast.\n\nCretaceous, Paleocene and Eocene deposits are not exposed on the surface, but are buried. They have been discovered by drilling.\n\nThe Yunlin Formation is from the Cretaceous and only known from boreholes. The rocks are siltstone, basalt, shale and limestone.\n\nThe Paleocene Wangong Formation consisting of volcaniclastics, sandstone, shale and limestone is over 1046 meters thick.\n\nIn the Eocene the Shuangji Formation formed mostly from volcanic particles in the form of tuff and tuffaceous sandstone. These beds are from 100 m to 3 km thick.\n\nIn the Oligocene the Wuzhishan Formation or Wuchihshan Formation (五指山組) formed thick beds of sandstone. The total thickness is 0.9 to 1.2 km.\n\nThe Yeliu Group from the Miocene is fine grained sandstone, with some beds of shale, basaltic tuff and three seams of coal. Possibly including Wushan Formation, Piling Shale, Peiliao Formation, Talu shale, Shihti Formation, Kuanyiongshan sandstone.\n\nThe Ruifang Group contains beds of sandstone, siltstone, shale and six thin coal beds. These beds are 0.8 to 1.6 km thick.\n\nThe Sangxia Group starts with medium grained sandstone, but in the upper layers increases shale. Eight thin coal seams are included. The total thickness of the deepest beds exceeds 5 km. This includes the Kueichulin Formation with the Yutengping Sandstone, Shihliufen Shale, Kuantaoshan Sandstone; the Nanchuang Formation including Shangfuchi Sandstone and Tungkeng Formation.\n\nThe Jinshui Formation or Chinshui Formation from the Pliocene is mostly shale interbedded with some mudstone and sandstone is between 80 and 400 m thick.\n\nThe Zhuolan Formation or Cholan Formation (卓蘭層) starts in the Pliocene and extends into the first stage of the Pleistocene. It consists of fine grained sandstone. This is 1.5 to 2.5 km thick.\nAt the same time on the southern tip of the island, the Kending Formation or Kenting Formation (墾丁組) was formed consisting of mudstone with ophiolite melange. The ophiolite melange contains pebbles and blocks of Miocene age consisting of basic and ultrabasic rock from the ocean floor. The interpretation is that a wedge of seafloor was pushed above sea level, eroded and dropped fragments into the mud.\n\nThe Toukoshan Formation (Toukeshan) (頭嵙山層) commenced with fine sandstone with thin beds of conglomerate, and continued into mainly conglomerate with sandstone beds. This was formed in stage 1 and 2 of the Pleistocene. It is from 0.4 to 3 km thick.\n\nThe Szekou Formation is a light bluish gray siltstone, with shale and fine grained sandstone. The Maanshan Formation is very similar. It is overlain by Hengchun Limestone and may interfinger.\n\nThe Hengchun Limestone was formed after the Penglai movement in the third Pleistocene stage. Also at this time laterite (紅土) and gravel on river terraces was formed. Holocene mud sand and coral form a wide belt on the west side of the island.\n\nThe Tatun Volcano Group is found on the northern tip of Taiwan. Chihsingshan is the highest point of the volcanoes at 1120 meters. The volcanoes have formed the rounded shape of the northern cape of Taiwan. The volcanic rock also occur on Huaping Isle, Mienhua Isle, Pengchia Isle and Huangwei Isle just to the north of Taiwan. The rocks are aluminium rich andesite, tuff and breccia. The rocks are poor in sodium and magnesium, but rich in iron, potassium, rubidium and strontium and strong in rare earth elements. The magma was derived by melting of the underthrust sea plate behind the Ryukyu Volcanic Arc during the Pleistocene.\n\nThe Caolingshan Basalt consists of olivine and pyroxene, with crystals of biotite and plagioclase. This is rich in K, Rb, Mg, Sr, Cr, and Ni, but poor in Na, Al, and Fe. Rare earth elements are strongly enriched. The magma was derived by deep mantle melting of the underthrust sea plate behind the Ryukyu Volcanic Arc during the Pleistocene.\n\nThe volcanoes on Chilungshan, Penshan, Caoshan, Chilung Island (Keelung Islet) and Gueishan Island date from the Pleistocene period and later. The eruption were explosive tholeiitic andesite and dacite. The main mineral is calcium rich plagioclase. The magma source is the western extremity of the Ryukyu Volcanic Arc formed when the subducting Philippines Sea Plate was compressed below the edge of the Eurasian Plate at about 20 to 30 km deep. The magma was contaminated with continental crust material. Geochemistry of the rock shows that iron, aluminium, titanium, potassium, rubidium and strontium are enriched, but sodium, magnesium and nickel are impoverished.\n\nAlkaline volcanic rocks from north west Taiwan are found at the Shihmen Reservoir, Chiaopanshan, Taoyuan and Fuxing. The rocks are picrite, alkaline basalt and trachyandesite. The commons minerals are albite, olivine, clinopyroxene and oxides of iron and titanium. The elements enriched are sodium and titanium, and magnesium and calcium are reduced. The rock dates from the Miocene. The magma was formed under tension conditions on the continental margin from deep down in the mantle.\n\nVolcanoes on the Coastal Range and Green Island erupted tholeiite andesite, and volcanic explosive fragments. The volcanoes erupted from the Pliocene to Pleistocene period. It is part of the Luzon Volcanic Arc. Magma was formed from subducting oceanic crust under compression about 25 km deep. The andesite rock contains some visible crystals of pyroxene or amphibole. The geochemistry of the rock shows it is enriched in potassium, strontium and rubidium and light rare earth elements. Chromium and nickel are depleted. The Chimei Volcanic Complex, near the Hsiukuluanchi River, has an age from 9 to 22.2 Ma. It is associated with copper porphyry mineralisation. It covers an area of 22 km.\n\nPleistocene basalt and tholeiite is found in the Penghu Islands. The lava erupted from fissures in a flood. The rock is enriched in titanium and poor in aluminium, rubidium and strontium. The alkaline basalt contains olivine and analcite. The tholeiite contains plagioclase and pyroxene. The magma originated in the upper mantle under tension conditions on the continental margin.\n\n\nThe Philippines Sea Plate is converging with the continent at 7 cm per year in the west north west direction. It has compressed Cenozoic sediments by around 200 km in the last 4 Ma. The piled up sediment is rising into mountains at the rate of 5 mm per year.\n\nThe major seismic faults in Taiwan correspond to the various suture zones between the various terranes. As a result, Taiwan has numerous mud volcanoes and hot springs. These faults have produced several major quakes throughout the history of the island, including the 1951 East Rift Valley earthquakes on the East Rift Valley (花東縱谷) and 1964 Baihe earthquake on the Chukou Fault. The 1946 Hsinhua earthquake ruptured the Hsinhua fault (新化斷層). The most lethal was 1935 Hsinchu-Taichung earthquake shifting on a fault at Emei Township, Hsinchu County. The second deadliest was a 7.3 quake that ruptured the Chelongpu Fault (車籠埔斷層) on 21 September 1999, known as the \"921 earthquake\". On 4 March 2010 at about 01:20 UTC, a magnitude 6.4 earthquake hit southern Taiwan. The seismic hazard map for Taiwan by the USGS shows 9/10 of the island as the highest rating (most hazardous).\n\nThe offshore features include the Kaoping Slope extending off the southwest coast of Taiwan into the South China Sea. This is emerging from the sea over time to extend the island.\nThe Henchung Ridge extends south from the Hengchun Peninsula (恆春半島), and is the submarine part of the Central Range. The Southern Longitudinal Trough is the southern underwater extension of the Longitudinal Valley. The Huatang Ridge extends south off the coast from Taitung City. The Taitung Trough lies to the east behind the Luzon Arc. The Luzon Arc comes to the surface on the islands of Lüdao and Lanyu. A submarine canyon, the Taitung Canyon, cuts through the arc between the two islands linking the Taitung Trough to the Huatung Basin. The canyon cuts across the Huatung Basin bending to the north and reaching the Ryukyu Trench. A 5.5 magnitude earthquake struck at 08:00 GMT on 20 March 2011, near the canyon breaking segments C and D of the East Asia Crossing undersea cable. The Huatung Basin lies east of Taiwan south of the city of Hualien. It extends west till the Gagua Ridge about 110 km offshore.\n\nThe Taiwan Banks are a shallow part of the main continental shelf off mainland China lying to the south and south west of Penghu Islands. The Taixinan Basin (台西南盆地) is located between Taiwan Banks and the Central Mountains.\n\nThe Okinawa Trough, the back-arc basin behind the Ryukyu Islands, shows up on the coastline as a bay between Dome Point north to Sanshokiaku (easternmost point of Taiwan) (24.6° to 25°N).\n\nTaiwan has a very strong, positive Bouguer gravity anomaly in the Coastal Range, at over +4x10 ms. A local low below -2x10 ms is on the western side centered near Zhoulan. The gravity low is due to a mass deficit in the Taiwan Strait which is a flexural basin.\n\nPositive magnetic variations are found in narrow strips, west-southwest oriented of the west coast, and east-northeast off the northern coast, and south-north offshore from the Coastal Range heading south. These are of the order of 200 nT.\n\nThe Crustal thickness is around 30 km, with over 2 km of thickening under the Central Range, and thinning off the east coast. Taiwan is on the edge of the continental shelf, so the thickness of the crust is constant through the Taiwan Strait to the mainland.\n\nHeat flow is greatest to west of the Longitudinal Valley at rates exceeding 240 mWm.\n\nMany of the rocks in Taiwan have low pore space and have little ground water.\n\nThere are several hot springs in Taiwan, with most around the northern volcanic region. The Chingshui geothermal region is named after the Cingshuei River 13 km south west of Yilan.\n\nRivers in Taiwan transport a large amount of sediment to the sea. The south end of the Longitudonal Valley discharges the Peinan River with 88,000,000 tons of sediment per year. East flowing rivers move 17, 15 31 and 22 megatons per year of sediment. The Cho Shiu shifts 54 MT per year. Rivers running south from the Central Range move over 100 MT of sediment per year.\n\nThe first geological map of Taiwan was made in 1898 by Y. Ishii titled \"A Map of Geology and Mineral Resources of the Island of Taiwan\". It was at a scale of 1:800,000 and showed six items in its legend. Japan needed oil and coal for the war against Russia in 1904, so study began on the coal fields in the north part of Taiwan, more detailed maps were made, and the next one was published in 1911 by Y. Deguchi and G. Hosoya at a scale of 1:300,000. A third map was produced in 1926 titled: \"Geological Map of Taiwan showing Mineral Distribution\" by Y. Ichikawa and H. Takahashi. It showed 19 rock units. A 1935 coloured map by Y. Ichikawa had a scale of 1:500,000. In 1953 the Geological Survey of Taiwan (台灣地質調查所) published a map compiled by L.S. Chang at a 1:300,000 scale. A 1974 map had two scales 1:250,000 and 1:500,000. A second edition was printed in 1986 along with notes.\n"}
{"id": "4995608", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4995608", "title": "Glacial boundary", "text": "Glacial boundary\n\nA glacial boundary is a line on a map representing the farthest advance of a glacier that has retreated. It generally refers to the extent of continental, rather than alpine, glaciers.\n\nIn the northern hemisphere, glaciers advanced from the north during the Pleistocene epoch. The glacial boundary thus represents the farthest southern extent of the glaciers at that time.\n\nIn North America, the boundary from the most recent ice sheet passes through the states of New York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Ohio, Kentucky, Indiana, Illinois, Missouri, Kansas, Nebraska, South Dakota, Montana, and Washington. It also crosses the Canada–US border in several locations.\n\nSee Timeline of glaciation.\n\nSee the U.S. National Atlas for a map of the boundary in North America.\n"}
{"id": "2583036", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2583036", "title": "Hubble Deep Field South", "text": "Hubble Deep Field South\n\nThe Hubble Deep Field South is a composite of several hundred individual images taken using the Hubble Space Telescope's Wide Field and Planetary Camera 2 over 10 days in September and October 1998. It followed the great success of the original Hubble Deep Field in facilitating the study of extremely distant galaxies in early stages of their evolution. While the WFPC2 took very deep optical images, nearby fields were simultaneously imaged by the Space Telescope Imaging Spectrograph (STIS) and the Near Infrared Camera and Multi-Object Spectrometer (NICMOS).\n\nThe rationale behind making another Deep Field image was to provide observatories in the southern hemisphere with a similarly deep optical image of the distant universe as had been provided to those in the northern hemisphere.\n\nThe field chosen was in the constellation of Tucana at a right ascension of and declination of . As with the original Hubble Deep Field (referred to hereafter as the 'HDF-N'), the target area was selected to be far from the plane of the Milky Way's galactic disk, which contains a large amount of obscuring matter, and to contain as few galactic stars as possible. However the field is closer to the galactic plane than the HDF-N, meaning that it contains more galactic stars. It also has a nearby bright star, as well as a moderately strong radio source close by, but in both cases it was decided that these wouldn't compromise follow-up observations.\n\nAs with the HDF-N, the field lies in Hubble's Continuous Viewing Zone (CVZ), this time in the south, allowing twice the normal observing time per orbit. At specific times of year, the HST can observe this zone continuously, without it being eclipsed by the Earth. Viewing this field, however, has some issues due to passages through the South Atlantic Anomaly and also with scattered earthshine during daylight hours; the latter can be avoided by using instruments with larger sources of noise, for example from the CCD reading process, at those times. The survey again used Director's Discretionary Time.\n\nThe field was imaged briefly on October 30–31, 1997 to make sure that the guide stars in the field were acceptable; these guide stars would be required to keep the HST accurately pointing on the region during the observations proper.\n\nThe observing strategy for the HDF-S was similar to that of the HDF-N, with the same optical filters used for the WFPC2 images (isolating wavelengths at 300, 450, 606 and 814 nanometres), and similar total exposure times. The observations were made over 10 days in September and October 1998, a total of 150 orbits, and had a total exposure time of over 1.3 million seconds. While the WFPC2 took very deep optical images, the fields were simultaneously imaged by the Space Telescope Imaging Spectrograph (STIS) and the Near Infrared Camera and Multi-Object Spectrometer (NICMOS). A number of flanking fields were also observed for shorter periods of time.\n\nThe WFPC2 image is 5.3 square arcminutes, whilst the NICMOS and STIS images are only 0.7 square arcminutes.\n\nAs with the HDF-N, the images were processed using a technique known as 'drizzling', in which the direction the telescope was aimed was changed by a very small amount between exposures, and the resulting images combined using sophisticated techniques to achieve a higher angular resolution than would otherwise be possible. Translational changes were fine during the imaging parts of the observation; however, the telescope had to be rotated by small amounts instead of repointed during the spectroscopic work, such that the centre of the STIS instrument was kept on the central quasar. The HDF-S final image had a pixel scale of 0.0398 arcseconds.\n\nThe cosmological principle states that at the largest scales, the universe is homogeneous and isotropic, meaning that it should look the same in any direction. The HDF-S would thus be expected to strongly resemble the HDF-N, and this was indeed the case, with large numbers of galaxies visible displaying a similar range of colours and morphologies to those seen in the HDF-N, and very similar numbers of galaxies in each of the fields.\n\nOne difference with the HDF-N was that the HDF-S included a known quasar with a redshift value of 2.24, J2233-606, discovered during the search for the target field. The quasar provides a probe of the gas along the line of sight where the foreground objects are also observed, allowing an investigation into the association of galaxies with absorption features. Including a quasar in the field of view was originally considered for the HDF-N, but was decided against due to concerns about increased numbers of galaxies associated with the quasar might skew the galaxy number counts, and because there was not a favourably located quasar. For the Southern field, however, such a skewed count wasn't a concern due to the known counts from the HDF-N.\n\nAs with the HDF-N, the HDF-S provided rich pickings for cosmologists. Many studies of the HDF-S confirmed results found from the HDF-N, such as star formation rates over the lifetime of the universe. The HDF-S was also extensively used in studies of how galaxies evolve over time, both due to internal processes and encounters with other galaxies.\n\nFollowing Hubble's observations of the HDF-S field, the field was also surveyed in the UV/optical/infrared frequency range by the Anglo-Australian Observatory, the Cerro Tololo Interamerican Observatory and the European Southern Observatory. At mid-infrared it was observed by the Infrared Space Observatory, and radio observations were made by the Australia Telescope National Facility.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "521388", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=521388", "title": "ISO 3166-2:GT", "text": "ISO 3166-2:GT\n\nISO 3166-2:GT is the entry for Guatemala in ISO 3166-2, part of the ISO 3166 standard published by the International Organization for Standardization (ISO), which defines codes for the names of the principal subdivisions (e.g., provinces or states) of all countries coded in ISO 3166-1.\n\nCurrently for Guatemala, ISO 3166-2 codes are defined for 22 departments.\n\nEach code consists of two parts, separated by a hyphen. The first part is , the ISO 3166-1 alpha-2 code of Guatemala. The second part is two letters.\n\nSubdivision names are listed as in the ISO 3166-2 standard published by the ISO 3166 Maintenance Agency (ISO 3166/MA).\n\n\"Click on the button in the header to sort each column.\"\n\nThe following changes to the entry have been announced in newsletters by the ISO 3166/MA since the first publication of ISO 3166-2 in 1998:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "250515", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=250515", "title": "Landform", "text": "Landform\n\nA landform is a natural feature of the solid surface of the Earth or other planetary body. Landforms together make up a given terrain, and their arrangement in the landscape is known as topography. Typical landforms include hills, mountains, plateaus, canyons, and valleys, as well as shoreline features such as bays, peninsulas, and seas, including submerged features such as mid-ocean ridges, volcanoes, and the great ocean basins.\n\nLandforms are categorized by characteristic physical attributes such as elevation, slope, orientation, stratification, rock exposure, and soil type. Gross physical features or landforms include intuitive elements such as berms, mounds, hills, ridges, cliffs, valleys, rivers, peninsulas, volcanoes, and numerous other structural and size-scaled (i.e. ponds vs. lakes, hills vs. mountains) elements including various kinds of inland and oceanic waterbodies and sub-surface features.\n\nOceans and continents exemplify the highest-order landforms. Landform elements are parts of a high-order landforms that can be further identified and systematically given a cohesive definition such as hill-tops, shoulders, saddles, foreslopes and backslopes.\n\nSome generic landform elements including: pits, peaks, channels, ridges, passes, pools and plains.\n\nTerrain (or \"relief\") is the third or vertical dimension of \"land surface\". Topography is the study of terrain, although the word is often used as a synonym for relief itself. When relief is described underwater, the term bathymetry is used. In cartography, many different techniques are used to describe relief, including contour lines and TIN (Triangulated irregular network).\n\nElementary landforms (segments, facets, relief units) are the smallest homogeneous divisions of the land surface, at the given scale/resolution. These are areas with relatively homogeneous morphometric properties, bounded by lines of discontinuity. A plateau or a hill can be observed at various scales ranging from few hundred meters to hundreds of kilometers. Hence, the spatial distribution of landforms is often scale-dependent as is the case for soils and geological strata.\n\nA number of factors, ranging from plate tectonics to erosion and deposition, can generate and affect landforms. Biological factors can also influence landforms— for example, note the role of vegetation in the development of dune systems and salt marshes, and the work of corals and algae in the formation of coral reefs.\n\nLandforms do not include man-made features, such as canals, ports and many harbors; and geographic features, such as deserts, forests, and grasslands. Many of the terms are not restricted to refer to features of the planet Earth, and can be used to describe surface features of other planets and similar objects in the Universe. Examples are mountains, hills, polar caps, and valleys, which are found on all of the terrestrial planets.\n\nThe scientific study of landforms is known as geomorphology.\n\nLandforms may be extracted from a digital elevation model using some automated techniques where the data has been gathered by modern satellites and stereoscopic aerial surveillance cameras. Until recently, compiling the data found in such data sets required time consuming and expensive techniques involving many man-hours. The most detailed DEMs available are measured directly using LIDAR techniques.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31533078", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31533078", "title": "List of Czech laureates of international music awards", "text": "List of Czech laureates of international music awards\n\nGrand Prix du disque de l'Académie Charles Cros\nCannes Classical Awards\n\n"}
{"id": "51078217", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51078217", "title": "List of Tasmanian government agencies", "text": "List of Tasmanian government agencies\n\nGovernment in Tasmania is delivered by a number of agencies, grouped under areas of portfolio responsibility. Each portfolio is led by a government minister who is a member of the Parliament of Tasmania, appointed by the Governor as the representative of the Crown.\n\nThe agencies are principally grouped as eight departments, each led by a secretary or director-general and comprising a number of portfolios covering specific policy areas across the department and allocated statutory authorities, trading enterprises, boards, councils and other public bodies.\n\nAgencies have varying levels of operational autonomy, and deliver one or more of frontline public services, administrative functions and law enforcement. Some are structured as for-profit corporations. Where there are multiple portfolios within a department, directors-general may be accountable to a number of ministers.\n\nAll agencies are identifiable by their corporate logo, which features in agency advertising, publications and correspondence, pictured right.\n\nA list of articles on Tasmanian government agencies sorted alphabetically is available at . The Tasmanian government maintains a list of agencies and their contact details at its website.\n\nThe Department of Education (DoE) is the lead agency of the portfolio headed by the Minister for Education and Training, presently the Hon. Jeremy Rockliff MP.\n\nThe Department is led by its Secretary, Jenny Gale.\n\nThe Department of Education is responsible for the following statutory and non-statutory bodies:\n\nThe Department of Health and Human Services (DHHS) is the lead agency of the portfolio headed by the Minister for Health, presently the Hon. Michael Ferguson MP; supported by the Minister for Human Services and the Minister for Women, presently the Hon. Jacquie Petrusma MP.\n\nThe Department is led by its Secretary, currently acting in the role, Michael Pervan.\n\nThe Department of Health and Human Services is responsible for the following statutory and non-statutory bodies:\n\nThe Department of Justice (DoJ) is the lead agency of the portfolio headed by the Attorney-General, the Minister for Justice, and the Minister for Corrections, presently the Hon. Vanessa Goodwin MLC; and the Minister for Planning and Local Government and the Minister for Building and Construction, presently the Hon. Peter Gutwein MP.\n\nThe Department is led by its Secretary, Simon Overland.\n\nThe Department of Justice is responsible for the following statutory and non-statutory bodies:\n\nThe Department of Police, Fire and Emergency Management (DPFEM) is the lead agency of the portfolio headed by the Minister for Police and Emergency Management, presently the Hon. Rene Hidding MP. The Department does not have a lead Secretary, with each agency reporting directly to the Minister.\n\nThe Department of Police, Fire and Emergency Management is responsible for the following statutory and non-statutory bodies:\n\nThe Department of Premier and Cabinet (DPAC) is the central agency of the Tasmanian Government. The Department provides a broad range of services to Cabinet, other members of Parliament, Government agencies and the community. DPAC is headed by the Premier, the Minister for Sport and Recreation, and the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, presently the Hon. Will Hodgman MP; supported by the Parliamentary Secretary to the Premier, presently Guy Barnett MP; the Minister for Planning and Local Government, presently the Hon. Peter Gutwein MP; the Minister for Environment, Parks and Heritage, presently the Hon. Matthew Groom MP; the Minister for Information Technology and Innovation, presently the Hon. Michael Ferguson MP; and the Minister for Women, presently the Hon. Jacquie Petrusma MP.\n\nThe Department is led by its Secretary, Jenny Gale.\n\nThe Department of Primary Industries, Parks, Water and the Environment (DPIPWE) is the lead agency of the portfolio headed by the Minister for Primary Industries and Water, and the Minister for Racing, presently the Hon. Jeremy Rockliff MP; supported by the Minister for Environment, Parks and Heritage, presently the Hon. Matthew Groom MP.\n\nThe Department is led by its Secretary, John Whittington.\n\nThe Department of Primary Industries, Parks, Water and the Environment is responsible for the following statutory and non-statutory bodies:\n\nThe Department of State Growth is the lead agency of the portfolio headed by the Minister for State Growth and the Minister for Energy, presently the Hon. Matthew Groom MP; supported by the Minister for Tourism, Hospitality and Events, presently the Hon. Will Hodgman MP; the Minister for Information Technology and Innovation, presently the Hon. Michael Ferguson MP; the Minister for the Arts, presently the Hon. Dr Vanessa Goodwin MLC; the Minister for Planning and Local Government, the Minister for Forestry, and the Minister for Building and Construction, presently the Hon. Peter Gutwein MP; the Minister for Infrastructure and the Minister for Mining, presently the Hon. Rene Hidding MP; and the Parliamentary Secretary for Small Business, presently the Hon. Guy Barnett MP.\n\nThe Department is led by its Secretary, Kim Evans.\n\nThe Department of State Growth is responsible for the following statutory and non-statutory bodies:\n\nThe Department of Treasury and Finance is the lead agency of the portfolio headed by the Treasurer, presently the Hon. Peter Gutwein MP.\n\nThe Department is led by its Secretary, Tony Ferrall.\n\nThe Department of Treasury and Finance is responsible for the following statutory and non-statutory bodies:\n\n"}
{"id": "330125", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=330125", "title": "List of islands of Africa", "text": "List of islands of Africa\n\nThis is a list of islands of Africa.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1128647", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1128647", "title": "List of mountains in Taiwan", "text": "List of mountains in Taiwan\n\nTaiwan is a mountainous island. The island has the largest number and density of high mountains in the world. There are 286 mountain summits over above sea level on the island, with Yushan being the tallest mountain in both Taiwan and East Asia. Mountaineering is one of the most popular activities for many Taiwanese. A list of 100 Peaks of Taiwan was created in 1971, which lists the one hundred mountains over 3,000 m for mountaineering on the island. Climbing all of the one hundred mountains listed is considered the greatest challenge for Taiwanese climbers.\n\nThere are five mountain ranges in the main island of Taiwan\n\nNotes:\n\nNote:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24973179", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24973179", "title": "List of non-marine molluscs of Mayotte", "text": "List of non-marine molluscs of Mayotte\n\nThe non-marine molluscs of Mayotte are a part of the molluscan fauna of Mayotte.\n\nPomatiidae\n\nCyclophoridae\n\nCerastidae\n\nStreptaxidae\n\n"}
{"id": "5533562", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5533562", "title": "List of pharmacy associations", "text": "List of pharmacy associations\n\nThe following is a list of organizations for professionals involved in the practice of pharmacy. Such organizations are typically professional societies, as opposed to trade associations.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43707762", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43707762", "title": "List of television stations in South Asia", "text": "List of television stations in South Asia\n\nThis is a list of television stations in South Asia.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3267210", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3267210", "title": "List of tourist attractions in Helsinki", "text": "List of tourist attractions in Helsinki\n\nThis is a list of popular tourism sights in Helsinki, the capital of Finland.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20210945", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20210945", "title": "List of tourist attractions in the Isle of Wight", "text": "List of tourist attractions in the Isle of Wight\n\nThe following is a list of tourist attractions on the Isle of Wight.\n"}
{"id": "14386811", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14386811", "title": "List of wars involving Argentina", "text": "List of wars involving Argentina\n\nThis is a list of wars involving the Argentine Republic from 1810 to present day:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58679595", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58679595", "title": "Monarch Watch", "text": "Monarch Watch\n\nMonarch Watch is a volunteer-based citizen science organization that tracks the fall migration of the monarch butterfly. It is self-described as \"a nonprofit education, conservation, and research program based at the University of Kansas that focuses on the monarch butterfly, its habitat, and its spectacular fall migration.\" \n\nThe informal organization is largely supported by teachers and students participating in \"classroom projects, collaborative research\" among other opportunities. Its founder and director is Orley R. \"Chip\" Taylor, a \"world-renowned expert on butterflies and their migration patterns.\" The organization creates and distributes tags to place on monarch butterflies in order to track their migration path from Canada and the United States to south-central Mexico. The tagging method used is derived from the one that was developed by Canadian scientist, Fred Urquhart. The tagging process was adapted by Orley Taylor to minimize the damage to the butterflies. Color-coded tags are glued to a monarch butterfly's wing. Volunteers have tagged over 1.5 million monarchs in the last 26 years from Colorado to Canada.\n\nThe monarch butterfly is also known as the milkweed butterfly due to its subsistence on the milkweed plant for its habitat. Largely due to commercial farming practices, the habitats of monarch butterflies have declined. In an effort to mitigate the destruction of the monarch butterflies natural habitat, Monarch Watch has called for volunteers to plant milkweed wherever possible. Milkweed is essential to the life-cycle of the monarch butterfly as they lay their eggs on the underside of the plant's leaves. It is possible to register and certify a site that is designated as a \"Monarch Waystation.\" These sites can also be added to an interactive map that is monitored by Monarch Watch. The program also offers free milkweed plugs to people that engage in the creation of habitats for monarchs and pollinators. Primary consideration is given to non-profits and schools. There is an application process to receive the milkweed from Monarch Watch.\n\nMonarch Watch is not only focused on tracking the fall migration of monarchs, but also on the conservation of the monarch butterfly through the preservation and restoration of monarch habitats. The destruction of habitats has negatively affected the monarch butterfly population as well as that of other pollinators. Habitat shrinkage has resulted in the extinction of several species of pollinators over the last 50 years. The monarch butterfly is also affected by parasites and the \"declining winter habitat in Mexico.\" Monarch Watch's efforts in this arena are specifically referred to at the \"Bring Back the Monarchs Campaign.\" The Bring Back the Monarchs Campaign is an offshoot of the Monarch Waystation Program.\n\nBeyond offering free milkweed plugs, Monarch Watch also offers a shop by which an individual can purchase milkweed for the purpose of creating monarch habitats. The milkweed species offered to the buyer is contingent on the buyer's zip code, in an effort to ensure that only native milkweed is planted in the appropriate regional areas.\n"}
{"id": "34050543", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34050543", "title": "Orcus Patera", "text": "Orcus Patera\n\nOrcus Patera is a region on the surface of the planet Mars first imaged by Mariner 4. It is a depression about 380 km long, 140 km wide, and about 0.5 km (500 meters) deep but with a relatively smooth floor. It has a rim up to 1.8 km high. Orcus Patera is west of Olympus Mons and east of Elysium Mons. It is about halfway between those two volcanoes, and east and north of Gale crater.\n\nIt has experienced aeolian processes, and has some small craters and graben structures. However, it is not known how the patera originally formed. Theories include volcanic, tectonic, or cratering events. A study in 2000 that incorporated new results from Mars Global Surveyor along with older Viking data, did not come out clearly in favor of either volcanic or cratering processes.\n\nMars Express observed this region in 2005, yielding a digital terrain model and color pictures.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55027190", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55027190", "title": "Oskar Schmieder", "text": "Oskar Schmieder\n\nOskar Schmieder (January 27, 1891 in Bonn, Germany - February 12, 1980 in Schleswig) was a German geographer and expert in the regional geography of Latin America. He spent his early career with Carl O. Sauer at the University of California at Berkeley, where he was an Associate Professor from 1926 to 1930.\n\nSchmieder studied geography at the University of Bonn, University of Königsberg, and the University of Heidelberg. His dissertation on the Sierra de Gredos was supervised by Alfred Hettner. Although focusing on physical geography, the final conclusions of his dissertation already include a certain notion of the social and cultural-historical forces that are decisive for the genesis of the landscape (later known as the cultural-genetic method); a point of view influenced by Hettner. In 1914 he undertook his first private field trip to Peru, but cancelled his trip in Chile to participate in the First World War.\n\nHis first travel to Latin America was crucial for his later career. After his \"Habilitation\" under Alfred Philippson in Bonn in 1919, with a study on the settlement geography of Ávila in central Spain, he travelled again to Latin America. Before arriving in Peru and Chile, however, he became a professor of mineralogy and geology at the Universidad Nacional de Córdoba, Argentina, where he remained from 1920 to 1925. Influenced by his mentor Alfred Hettner, who worked on the Colombian Andes, his regional focus was appreciated at the University of California at Berkeley where he worked with Carl O. Sauer as a Visiting Professor (1925) and Associate Professor (until 1930) (replacing Richard Russel), and contributed the Latin Americanist focus—and probably German geographic methodology—to the development of the Berkeley School. Together, they carried out research in Baja California. During this time, he taught courses in Latin American regional geography visited by Fred B. Kniffen, Samuel N. Dicken, and Julian Steward, among others. Although Sauer offered him the position of a Full Professor, Schmieder decided to go back to Germany. After Schmieder's departure, Sauer himself began to offer seminars on Latin America, yet followed more or less the Länderkunde format of Schmieder, as James J. Parsons lines out: \n\nBack to Germany in 1930, he became a professor of geography at the University of Kiel, where he continued his work on Latin America with his disciple and assistant Herbert Wilhelmy. He soon adopted the then dominating nationalist/national socialist mode of thinking, became an admirer of the colonial policies of Fascist Italy, contributed to national socialist \"Lebensraum\" research, and became a member of the NSDAP in 1941. \n\nAfter a period at the University of Halle, he went back to Kiel. In the 1950s, he was a Visiting Professor at the University of Karachi and the University of Chile. In a 1967 volume of the Pakistan Geographical Review he was described as \"one of the very senior geographers, a chapter in German geography, an image of Hettner, and a successful writer. He is one of the associates of Berkeley school of geography, founded by Carl Sauer\". Schmieder was a convinced representative of \"Länderkunde\" regional geography.\n\n"}
{"id": "16611532", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16611532", "title": "Outline of Australia", "text": "Outline of Australia\n\nThe following outline is provided as an overview of and topical guide to Australia:\n\nAustralia refers to both the continent of Australia and to the Commonwealth of Australia, the sovereign country. Australia, the world's smallest continent, is in the Southern Hemisphere and borders both the Indian Ocean and the Pacific Ocean.\n\nThe Commonwealth of Australia comprises the mainland of the Australian continent, plus the major island of Tasmania, and other nearby islands. The neighbouring countries are Indonesia, East Timor, and Papua New Guinea to the north, the Solomon Islands, Vanuatu, and New Caledonia to the north-east, and New Zealand to the south-east.\n\nThe Australian mainland has been inhabited for more than 60,000 years by Indigenous Australians. After sporadic visits by fishermen from the north and then European discovery by Dutch explorers in 1606, the eastern half of Australia was later claimed by the British in 1770 and initially settled through penal transportation as part of the colony of New South Wales, commencing on 26 January 1788. As the population grew and new areas were explored, another five largely self-governing Crown colonies were established during the 19th century.\n\n\nGeography of Australia\n\nEnvironment of Australia\n\n\n\n\nStates and territories of Australia\n\n\n\nLocal government in Australia\n\nDemographics of Australia\n\n\nGovernment of Australia\n\nSeparation of powers in Australia\n\n\nJudiciary of Australia\n\nAustralian Defence Force\n\n\nThe Commonwealth of Australia is a member of the:\n\nLaw of Australia\n\n\nLocal government in Australia\n\n\n\nCulture of Australia\n\n\n\nSport in Australia\n\nEconomy of Australia\n\n\n\n\nAustralia\n"}
{"id": "3349877", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3349877", "title": "Philippus Brietius", "text": "Philippus Brietius\n\nPhilippus Brietius (in French, Philippe Briet) (1601–1668) was a seventeenth-century French Jesuit historian and cartographer.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2820378", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2820378", "title": "Podunk", "text": "Podunk\n\nThe terms podunk or Podunk Hollow in American English denote or describe an insignificant, out-of-the-way, or fictitious town. It is often used in the upper case as a placeholder name, to indicate insignificance and lack of importance.\n\nThe word \"podunk\" is of Algonquian origin. It denoted both the Podunk people and marshy locations, particularly the people's winter village site on the border of present-day East Hartford and South Windsor, Connecticut. Podunk was first defined in an American national dictionary in 1934, as an imaginary small town considered typical of placid dullness and lack of contact with the progress of the world.\n\nThe earliest citation in the \"Dictionary of American Regional English\" is from Samuel Griswold Goodrich's 1840 book, \"The Politician of Podunk:\" \n\nThe book portrays Waxtend as being drawn by his interest in public affairs into becoming a representative in the General Assembly, finding himself unsuited to the role, and returning to his trade. It is unclear whether the author intended to evoke more than the place near Ulysses, New York by the name \"Podunk\". Possibly the term was meant to exemplify \"plain, honest people\", as opposed to more sophisticated people with questionable values. An 1875 description said:\n\nIn American discourse, the term podunk came into general colloquial use, through the wide national readership of the \"Letters from Podunk\" of 1846, in the \"Daily National Pilot\" of Buffalo, New York. These represented \"Podunk\" as a real place but one insignificant and out of the way. The term gained currency as standing for a fictional place. For instance, in 1869, Mark Twain wrote the article, \"Mr. Beecher and the Clergy,\" defending his friend, Thomas K. Beecher, whose preaching had come under criticism. In it he said:\nAt the time he was living in Buffalo, moving to Hartford, Connecticut in 1871, in a home within of the Podunk River. Elmira, where Twain had lived earlier, is within of Podunk, New York, so it is not clear to which village Twain was referring.\n\nThe United States Board on Geographic Names lists places named \"Podunk\":\n\nOther areas known as Podunk include:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1464304", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1464304", "title": "Pole of Cold", "text": "Pole of Cold\n\nThe Poles of Cold are the places in the southern and northern hemispheres where the lowest air temperatures have been recorded.\n\nIn the southern hemisphere, the Pole of Cold is currently located in Antarctica, at the Russian (formerly Soviet) Antarctic station Vostok at . On July 21, 1983, this station recorded a temperature of . This is the lowest naturally occurring temperature ever recorded on Earth. Vostok station is located at the elevation of above sea level, far removed from the moderating influence of oceans (more than from the nearest sea coast), and high latitude that results in almost three months of civil polar night every year (early May to end of July), all combine to produce an environment where temperatures rarely rise above during summer and frequently fall below in winter. By comparison, the South Pole, due to its lower elevation, is, on average, warmer than Vostok, and the lowest temperature ever recorded at the South Pole is .\n\nIt is generally thought that Vostok is not the coldest place in Antarctica, and there are locations (notably, Dome A) that are modestly colder on average. The now inactive Plateau Station, located on the central Antarctic plateau, recorded an average yearly temperature that was consistently lower than that of Vostok Station during the 37-month period that it was active in the late 1960s, with its average for the coldest month being several degrees lower than the same statistic for Vostok. Plateau Station never recorded a temperature that surpassed the record low set at Vostok. However, temperatures at Plateau Station were only recorded during the 37 months that it was active. Had a lower temperature than the Vostok record occurred there at a later date, it would never have been recorded.\n\nMonitoring stations in Antarctica are few and far between; prior to 1995, Vostok was the only research station on the Antarctic Plateau above the elevation of 3,000 m (with the exception of Plateau Station during the brief period that it was active in the 1960s), with no other stations for several hundred kilometers in any direction. Temperatures below , if they did occur elsewhere, would not have been recorded. The automatic weather station at Dome A was only installed in 2005, and has recorded as the coldest so far (2010). However a review of satellite measurements taken between 2010–2013 found several places located along a ridge between Dome A and Dome F which recorded even lower temperatures of , with the lowest reliable temperature being recorded in 2010, at , at an elevation of . The extreme low temperatures are found in hollows slightly below the peak of the ice ridge, where cold air gets trapped as it flows downhill, and since the same low temperature ranges were detected at several different sites along the ridge across multiple years, it is thought this may be the lowest temperature achievable under local atmospheric conditions.\n\nIn the northern hemisphere, there are two places in the Sakha Republic (Yakutia), Siberia, Russia that vie for the honour of being considered the \"Pole of Cold\" in winter. These are Verkhoyansk (located at ) and Oymyakon (located at ).\n\nIn December 1868 and then in February 1869 made the discovery of the Northern Pole of Cold by measuring a record temperature of in Verkhoyansk. Later, on January 15, 1885, a temperature of was registered there by . This measurement was published in the \"Annals of the General Physical Observatory\" in 1892; by mistake it was written as , which was later corrected. One can still find this incorrect value in some literature. The coldest reliably measured temperature in Verkhoyansk was on February 5 and 7 of 1892.\n\nIn 1924, Russian scientist Sergey Obruchev registered the lowest temperature .\nOn February 6, 1933, a temperature of was recorded at Oymyakon's weather station. This is the coldest reliably measured temperature for the Northern Hemisphere. The weather station is in a valley between Oymyakon and Tomtor. The station is at and the surrounding mountains at , causing cold air to pool in the valley: recent studies show that winter temperatures in the area \"increase\" with elevation by as much as .\n\nThe small rural locality of Delyankir, also in the Sakha Republic, has a lower average temperature throughout all winter months than either Oymyakon or Verkhoyansk, as well as a lower yearly average. Its record low temperature of is slightly higher than the record lows set at Oymyakon and Verkhoyansk, however.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55471307", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55471307", "title": "Polje, Croatia", "text": "Polje, Croatia\n\nPolje is a village in Croatia, under the Slunj township, in Karlovac County.\n"}
{"id": "491806", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=491806", "title": "Position line", "text": "Position line\n\nA position line is a line that can be identified both on a nautical chart or aeronautical chart and by observation out on the surface of the earth. The intersection of two position lines is a fix that is used in position fixing to identify the navigator's location.\n\nThere are several types of position line:\n\n"}
{"id": "37401198", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37401198", "title": "RV Rachel Carson (2008)", "text": "RV Rachel Carson (2008)\n\nRV \"Rachel Carson\" is a research vessel owned and operated by the University of Maryland's Center for Environmental Science, named in honor of the marine biologist and writer Rachel Carson.\n\nThe 81-foot aluminum-hulled vessel is an extended and modified Challenger class fast research vessel, designed by marine architect Roger Long. It is equipped with twin 1,200 horsepower diesel engines and water jet drives which give a maximum speed of 24 knots. A dynamic positioning system automatically maintains the vessel's position.\n\nThe ship was built by Hike Metal Products of Wheatley, Ontario, at a cost of $4.6 million, and christened by Katie O'Malley on November 16, 2008, at Annapolis.\n\nThe \"Rachel Carson\" has operated in Chesapeake Bay since early 2009, teaching estuarine sampling techniques, carrying out water quality surveys, plankton collection, box coring operations, and deploying instrument packages.\n"}
{"id": "32823999", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32823999", "title": "Telephone numbers in the Marshall Islands", "text": "Telephone numbers in the Marshall Islands\n\nCountry Code: +692<br>\nInternational Call Prefix: 00\n\nNational Significant Numbers (NSN): seven-digits\n\nFormat: +692 yyy xxxx or +692 yyyy xxx\n\n"}
{"id": "38586281", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38586281", "title": "Timeline of Addis Ababa", "text": "Timeline of Addis Ababa\n\nThe following is a timeline of the history of the of Addis Ababa, Oromia Region, Ethiopia.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\"This article incorporates information from the German Wikipedia and the Italian Wikipedia.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "667383", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=667383", "title": "Trindade (São Tomé and Príncipe)", "text": "Trindade (São Tomé and Príncipe)\n\nTrindade (Portuguese for the Trinity) is a town located on São Tomé Island, which is part of the island nation of São Tomé and Príncipe. Its population is 1,586 (2012 census). It is the seat of Mé-Zóchi District. It lies 7 km southwest of the capital São Tomé. Nearby places include Diogo Simão to the northeast, Lemos to the east, Cruzeiro to the south and Piedade to the west. There is a secondary school in Trindade, opened in 2011, with a capacity of 720 students.\n\nDuring the Batepá massacre, a brutally crushed rebellion in February 1953, hundreds of inhabitants of Trindade and nearby Batepá were killed.\n\n"}
{"id": "912225", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=912225", "title": "University of Edgestow", "text": "University of Edgestow\n\nThe University of Edgestow is a fictional university which appears in the novel \"That Hideous Strength\" by C. S. Lewis. It is a small collegiate institution, dating back to at least the 14th Century. It has four colleges:\n\n\nSome commentators have suggested that it may be based on Durham University, to which it bears certain similarities. However, Lewis denied any connection with Durham (a university of which he was fond) and close examination show the similarities to be superficial: Edgestow is a medieval foundation, a third \"Oxbridge\" university, while Durham was founded in the early 19th Century (though some of its buildings are indeed medieval). Bracton College (where much of the novel's story takes place) is a fellows-only institution, which was probably based on All Souls College, Oxford.\n\nThe University has an ancient history, some details of which are lost. It suffered during the English Civil War, when Roundheads killed at least one Royalist don. Less clear details, from further back in history, indicate that Bragdon Wood – the grounds of Bracton College – is the location of the grave of Merlin.\n\nThe novel begins after the Second World War, when the British government establishes the National Institute of Co-ordinated Experiments (N.I.C.E.), which is intended to bring to the problems of peace the same scientific organization which had won the war. Bracton College is keen to persuade the N.I.C.E. to base itself in Edgestow, and succeeds in selling them a site including a large part of Bragdon Wood – an action which attracts some controversy. Extensive building works cause more disruption than had been anticipated, and disorder leads to the appointment of Lord Feverstone, a leading N.I.C.E. official and fellow of Bracton College, as Emergency Commissioner.\n\nAt the climax of the novel, a large part of the town, including the whole of Bracton College, is destroyed in a freak natural disaster. The exact nature of this disaster remains unspecified, but the description includes earthquakes and subterranean explosions. Extraordinary numbers of residents leave shortly before this happens, for reasons ranging from coincidental (one resident receives a telegram from a relative) to portentous (various residents report animals telling them to leave). Lord Feverstone, however, dies in the disaster.\n\nThe Sub-warden of Bracton, Dr. Curry, has a narrow escape from the disaster. As the only surviving fellow (aside from Mark Studdock who was deemed to have resigned) he anticipates becoming the new Warden of Bracton College and playing a key role in the rebuilding of the university. However, it is unknown whether any of these ambitions are actually fulfilled, as the story ends shortly after the Edgestow disaster.\n"}
{"id": "7121573", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7121573", "title": "Urban cluster (France)", "text": "Urban cluster (France)\n\nIn France, a pôle urbain is a statistical area defined by INSEE (France's national statistics office) for the measurement of contiguously built-up areas. It shares the same definition as a \"unité urbaine\" (\"urban area\"), but differing in that it is not contained within the \"couronne périurbaine\" (commuter belt) of any other \"pôle urbain\"; in other words, a \"pôle urbain\" is an urban area that is a core of demographic growth. Please see \"unité urbaine\" and \"aire urbaine\" for more detail.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16130469", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16130469", "title": "Ute meridian", "text": "Ute meridian\n\nThe Ute meridian, also known as the Grand River meridian, was established in 1880 and is a principal meridian of Colorado. The initial point lies inside the boundaries of Grand Junction Regional Airport, Grand Junction, Colorado.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16798804", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16798804", "title": "Vehicle registration plates of the United States Virgin Islands", "text": "Vehicle registration plates of the United States Virgin Islands\n\nThe U. S. unincorporated territory of the United States Virgin Islands first required its residents to register their motor vehicles and display license plates in 1917.\n\n"}
{"id": "15895301", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15895301", "title": "Ågestasjön", "text": "Ågestasjön\n\nÅgestasjön (Swedish for \"Lake of Ågesta\") is a small lake in Huddinge Municipality south of Stockholm, Sweden.\n\nÅgestasjön forms part of the Tyresån Lake System and, with a biodiversity unique in the Stockholm region, is highly popular among birdwatchers and ornithologists. The lake also forms part of the Orlången Nature Reserve and one of the green wedges stretching into central Stockholm.\n\nThe lakes receives water from Lake Trehörningen and in its northern end empties into Magelungen. For a brief history of the area see Trehörningen.\n\nThe lake and the wetlands around it was transformed into a bird protection area in 1976, which means the area is inaccessible to the public from April 15 to July 15 and hunting, hunting equipment, and dogs are prohibited all seasons. Most of the area within a radius of 300 metres from the lake is subject to special restrictions.\n\nExcept for birdwatchers, the lake and its surrounding also attracts open-air lovers who use the area for walking, tour skating, and cross-country skiing. Due to the restrictions on visiting the lake in summer, and to the considerable amount of aquatic plants, bathing is not possible in the lake. Additionally, motorboats and fishing are not allowed on the lake.\n\nThe lake is surrounded by agricultural lands and a variety of forests, including precious deciduous forest. Near the lake is a golf course and a riding school. Part of the biodiversity in the area is due to the bait animals kept around the lake.\n\nÅgestasjön receives nutrients and contaminants from both lakes upstream, the Orlången and Trehörningen, and Ågestasjön's proper catchment area which is rich in nutrients. In the northern end of the lake superficial sediments (0–2 cm) contain high levels of copper, zinc, nickel, lead, cadmium, and Manganese; while the southern part of the lake show high levels of Chromium in deeper sediments (20–22 cm). Overall, levels of heavy metals are considered moderate.\n\nIn 1998, a wide range of aquatic plants were documented in the lake: reed, common club-rush, common bulrush, lesser bulrush, yellow iris, alisma, branched bur-reed, water hemlock, marsh calla, water-soldier, yellow water-lily, white water-lily, broad-leaved pondweed, blunt-leaved pondweed, whorled water-milfoil, rigid hornwort, common bladderwort, pondweed, bog-bean, frogbit, lesser duckweed, greater duckweed, and ivy-leaved duckweed.\n\nCommon fishes in the lake includes pike, roach, rudd, tench, bleak, silver bream, carp bream, crucian carp, perch, and ruffe. Of these tench and crucian carp represent the majority of biomass in the lake, while roach and perch dominated in numbers. Large fishes dominate in the lake, which is considered as a sign of presence of carnivores. A considerable variation in sizes of roaches indicates the lake is an important breeding locale for this species. In contrast, perches show a small variation in scale, which is a sign of the lake being dominated by a single generation as individuals fail to reach carnivorous adulthood.\n\nSome 240 bird species have been reported by the lake, which is an important locale for both resting and breeding species. The lake is dominated by some 500 couples of black-headed gulls together with mallards and coots.\n5 couples of great crested grebe, 5-10 couples of teal and goldeneye, 5 couples of tufted duck and pochard, a few couples of moorhen and water rail, and single couples of shoveler, gadwall, garganey. A presence of whooper swan dates back to 2004, while regular visitors include marsh harrier (2-3 couples), snipe, and Eurasian woodcock. Occasionally Eurasian bittern and spotted crake are seen by the lake.\n\nThere are a dozen couples of northern lapwing and eastern yellow wagtail, together with couples of meadow pipit, whinchat, red-backed shrike, bearded reedling, goshawk, spotted nutcracker, Eurasian wryneck, European honey buzzard, thrush nightingale, long-tailed tit, lesser spotted woodpecker, wood warbler, hawfinch, and Eurasian hobby. In the night time sedge warbler and reed warbler are regularly heard, while grasshopper warbler, river warbler, marsh warbler, and great reed warbler are reported now and then. Osprey are regularly seen fishing in the lake. Uncountable numbers of resting species are reported by the lake, including various swans, hawks, eagles, cormorants, and sparrows.\n\nBoth the lakes upstream and downstream suffered of crayfish plague in the late 1970s, which makes it likely Ågestasjön was affected too. As signal crayfish was introduced in the neighbouring lakes recently, it is assumed they are also present in Ågestasjön. Amphibians are represented by moor frog, common frog, true toad, and smooth newt. There are several bats present by the lake: northern bat, Daubenton's bat, common noctule, and whiskered bat. Otters were present in the lake until the 1960s and were spotted nearby in 2003.\n\n\n\n"}
