{"id": "30763478", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30763478", "title": "12th Planet (musician)", "text": "12th Planet (musician)\n\nJohn Dadzie, better known by his musical aliases 12th Planet and Infiltrata is a Los Angeles based dubstep and drum and bass producer and DJ.\n\nBorn John Christopher Dadzie, he grew up in South Los Angeles, the youngest of four children. He was first introduced to the electronic music scene in high school. After forming Imperial Recordings with DJ Lith, he launched his production skills on his own terms, originally producing drum and bass under the alias Infiltrata. In 2006, he decided that he was going to make dubstep. It was then that his new alias 12th Planet was created, in reference to Zecharia Sitchin's book, 12th Planet. All production under the name 12th Planet is original. As one of the first individuals to bring the dubstep culture to America (in one of the USA's electronic meccas, Los Angeles) 12th Planet has frequently been cited as the General of the Riddim Gang.\n\n12th Planet worked frequently with Orange County producer Flinch and LA Local Skrillex (on tracks \"Needed Change\" And \"Burst\" Along with Kill The Noise). He has also collaborated with various dubstep producers including Datsik, Doctor P, Plastician, Virtual Riot and Skream. Many well-known dubstep DJs (such as Rusko, Skream, Skrillex and more) use 12th Planet's productions and remixes in their live DJ sets.\n\nAs a DJ, 12th Planet has toured globally in London, Sydney, Auckland, and across the US. He has also played at many American dance festivals such as Electric Daisy Carnival, Together As One, SXSW, Coachella Valley Music and Arts Festival, Ultra Music Festival, Nocturnal, and Beyond Wonderland. He is represented by AM Only, one of the largest agencies in the electronic music industry.\n\nIn 2007, 12th Planet helped in the re-launch and re-branding of SMOG Records, which was previously an event production company, and has since been its head. In 2009, 12th Planet was listed as one of URB.com's \"Next 100\", and had a special feature in their 25 Now! supplemental issue. 2010 marked the release of his music video for \"Reasons\", presented by Scion A/V, which was premiered and cycled on MTV 2. Diplo’s label Mad Decent included 12th Planet’s remix of Little Jinder's \"Youth Blood\" on their dubstep compilation \"Blow Your Head\", released in November. 12th Planet has also been described by Skrillex as Skrillex's Mentor at a show at Ultra Music\n\n12th Planet finished in 20th place in the 2013 America's Best DJ competition-a vote and promotion to find out the country's most popular DJ conducted by \"DJ Times\" magazine and \"Pioneer DJ\".\n\nIn 2017, he signed with Myro and Dodge & Fuski's Disciple Recordings, becoming the head of the sub-label Disciple Round Table.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38055778", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38055778", "title": "Abassa", "text": "Abassa\n\nAbassa (also known as Abbasa) (born 765 – died after 803) was an Arabian noblewoman.\n\nShe was the daughter of Al-Mahdi. Her mother was a concubine by the name of Rahim. She was the half-sister of Al-Hadi, Harun al-Rashid, Ulayya, and Ibrahim ibn al-Mahdi. Harun al-Rashid was known for being unhappy with the fact that he was a relative of Abassa's, as he was attracted to her. To keep Abassa in his life, he had her marry Ja'far ibn Yahya. The marriage was supposed to be one of convenience, but Abassa fell in love with her arranged husband. At night, a slave woman would be sent to Ja'far's bedroom, and Abassa took the slave woman's place one evening. Her husband was surprised. Abassa would get pregnant and give birth to twin boys in secret. The twins would be raised in Mecca. Harun eventually found out about the relationship, and had Ja'far killed. Abassa was either killed, or, sent into exile.\n"}
{"id": "3862041", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3862041", "title": "Abd al-Qadir (Sokoto)", "text": "Abd al-Qadir (Sokoto)\n\nAbd al-Qadir also known as Abdulkadir, was Sokoto Grand Vizier (1842–1859). He was preceded by his father, Gidago dan Laima (1817–1842) and succeeded by Ibrahim Khalilu (1859-c. 1874). Prior to his appointment as vizier, Abdulkadir participated in 25 raids under Sultan Muhammed Bello and four raids with his uncle, Abu Bakr Atiku. He was a close confidant of Sultan Ali and a son of Nana Asma'u\n\nHis reign as vizier was effective but it had some limitations. Abdulkadir was involved in removing Umar Nagwamatse as ruler of Katuru, Umar's reputation was that of a high living, independent and successful prince but was proving unsuitable as ruler. Umar later moved southwards and founded a Fulani emirate in Kontagora. However, there were limitations to his power. When Bukhari, the Emir of Hadejia obtained power by force, Abdulkadir was charged to deal with the situation. He proceeded to Katagum and summoned Bukhari but the latter threatened him with his troops, Bukhari was declared a rebel and his brother, Ahmad was appointed Emir. Bukhari sought help from Bornu. But two expeditions, one led by Ahmad, Abdulkadir's brother and the second by Abdulkadir himself were unsuccessful, meanwhile, Bukhari later killed his brother and took charge of Hadejia.\n\nAbdulkadir's role also included recommending the appointment of Emirs to the Sultan. During this period, presents presented to the vizier and also to the Sultan were regularized as taxes.\n"}
{"id": "28084921", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28084921", "title": "Ablabius (consul)", "text": "Ablabius (consul)\n\nFlavius Ablabius also known as Ablabius or Ablavius (flourished 4th century, died 338) was a high official of the Roman Empire.\n\nAblabius was a Greek from the island of Crete and a man of humble birth. When his mother was pregnant with him, she allegedly received a prophecy from an Egyptian astrologer about him, that she would almost have borne an Emperor. \n\nHis date of birth is unknown, the identities of his parents are unknown, and it is unknown whether he had any siblings or relatives and his early life is largely a mystery. Ablabius was of a non-aristocratic and non-senatorial background, \n\nHe was at birth a pagan who converted later to Christianity. Ablabius became one of the officials of the Roman Governor of Crete. At some point, Ablabius left Crete and travelled to Constantinople to make his fortune.\n\nAfter arriving at Constantinople, Ablabius by chance acquired great influence over the Roman emperor Constantine I and became one of the most important senators of Constantinople. \n\nAblabius served as \"vicarius\" of the Diocese of Asia, held the praetorian prefecture of the East from 329 to 337/338, and served as ordinary consul in 331. Ablabius was active in the Roman East and West and during his political career, he was based at Antioch.\n\nConsidering his provincial background, Ablabius seemed to be attached to Constantine I, making him one of a small number of Easterners who held high offices throughout the Roman Empire. \n\nAblabius convinced Constantine that the failure of grain supplies to arrive at Constantinople had been caused by the magical arts of the pagan sage Sopater of Apamea, who had verbally attacked the Emperor and Ablabius for their dissolute behavior. Constantine followed the advice of Ablabius and had Sopater put to death. In 333 Constantine addressed a letter to Ablabius which is still preserved, in which he decreed that each party in a trial could appeal to a bishop’s judgment. \n\nIn 336, Constantine ordered a Greek inscription carved on a pedestal of a statue representing himself in Antioch, where Ablabius is named with his fellow senators Lucius Papius Pacatianus, Valerius Felix, Annius Tiberianus and Nestorius Timonianus. Constantine also made Ablabius tutor and preceptor of his son Constantius II. When Constantine died in May 337, Constantius succeeded him. Later in 337, Ablabius sided with Athanasius of Alexandria, the Nicene Bishop of Alexandria who had powerful enemies at the court of the pro-Arian Constantius. Due to Ablabius’ support for Athanasius, Constantius dismissed him from the imperial court, and Ablabius retired to his estates in Bithynia. In 338, Constantius condemned Ablabius to death following false accusations of intending to usurp the throne; the emperor had him executed in front of his own house. His house in Constantinople later belonged to the Empress Galla Placidia.\n\nAblabius had married an unnamed noblewoman by whom he had two known children: \n\n"}
{"id": "159231", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=159231", "title": "Agape", "text": "Agape\n\nAgape (Ancient Greek , \"agapē\") is a Greco-Christian term referring to love, \"the highest form of love, charity\" and \"the love of God for man and of man for God\". The word is not to be confused with philia, brotherly love, as it embraces a universal, unconditional love that transcends and persists regardless of circumstance. The noun form first occurs in the Septuagint, but the verb form goes as far back as Homer, translated literally as affection, as in \"greet with affection\" and \"show affection for the dead\". Other ancient authors have used forms of the word to denote love of a spouse or family, or affection for a particular activity, in contrast to eros (an affection of a sexual nature).\n\nWithin Christianity, \"agape\" is considered to be the love originating from God or Christ for mankind. In the New Testament, it refers to the covenant love of God for humans, as well as the human reciprocal love for God; the term necessarily extends to the love of one's fellow man. Some contemporary writers have sought to extend the use of \"agape\" into non-religious contexts.\nThe concept of \"agape\" has been widely examined within its Christian context. It has also been considered in the contexts of other religions, religious ethics, and science.\n\nThere are few instances of the word agape in polytheistic Greek literature. Bauer's Lexicon mentions a sepulchral inscription, most likely to honor a polytheistic army officer held in \"high esteem\" by his country.\n\nA journalist in \"Time\" magazine describes as \"one of the most famous and well-known Bible verses. It has been called the 'Gospel in a nutshell' because it is considered a summary of the central doctrines of Christianity.\"\n\nThe word \"agape\" received a broader usage under later Christian writers as the word that specifically denoted Christian love or charity (), or even God himself. The expression \"God is love\" (ὁ θεὸς ἀγάπη ἐστίν) occurs twice in the New Testament: 1 John . \"Agape\" was also used by the early Christians to refer to the self-sacrificing love of God for humanity, which they were committed to reciprocating and practicing towards God and among one another (see \"kenosis\").\n\n\"Agape\" has been expounded on by many Christian writers in a specifically Christian context. C. S. Lewis uses \"agape\" in \"The Four Loves\" to describe what he believes is the highest level of love known to humanity: a selfless love that is passionately committed to the well-being of others.\n\nThe Christian use of the term comes directly from the canonical Gospels' accounts of the teachings of Jesus. When asked what was the great commandment, \"Jesus said unto him, Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy mind. This is the first and great commandment. And the second \"is\" like unto it, Thou shalt love thy neighbour as thyself. On these two commandments hang all the law and the prophets.\" () In Judaism, the first \"love the thy God\" is part of the Shema.\nIn the Sermon on the Mount, Jesus said:\n\nTertullian remarks in his 2nd century defense of Christians that Christian love attracted pagan notice: \"What marks us in the eyes of our enemies is our loving kindness. 'Only look,' they say, 'look how they love one another' \" (\"Apology\" 39).\n\nAnglican theologian O.C. Quick writes that this \"agape\" within human experience is \"a very partial and rudimentary realization,\" and that \"in its pure form it is essentially divine.\" \n\nIn the New Testament, the word \"agape\" is often used to describe God's love. However, other forms of the word are used in a negative context, such as the various forms of the verb \"agapaō\". Examples include:\n\n\nKarl Barth distinguishes \"agape\" from \"eros\" on the basis of its origin and unconditional character. In \"agape\", humanity does not merely express its nature, but transcends it. \"Agape\" identifies with the interests of the neighbor \"in utter independence of the question of his attractiveness\" and with no expectation of reciprocity.\n\nThe word \"agape\" is used in its plural form (\"agapai\") in the New Testament to describe a meal or feast eaten by early Christians, as in Jude and 2nd Peter .\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4288753", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4288753", "title": "Bat-fowling", "text": "Bat-fowling\n\nBat-fowling is an archaic method of catching birds at night, while they are at roost. The process involves lighting straw or torches near their roost. After awakening them from their roost, the birds fly toward the flames, where, being amazed, they are easily caught in nets, or beaten with bats. The phrase \"beating about the bush\" is said to be derived from this practice as the trapper's accomplices would go around the bushes to disturb the birds. The practice was also called lanciatoia in Italy and a variation was called low-belling. The low-belling process involves approaching birds with bright lights and using cow bells, which the birds were accustomed to, to approach the birds up close and capture them with a long-handled net.\n\n"}
{"id": "33948767", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33948767", "title": "Biomarkers of aging", "text": "Biomarkers of aging\n\nBiomarkers of aging are biomarkers that could predict functional capacity at some later age better than will chronological age. Stated another way, biomarkers of aging would give the true \"biological age\", which may be different from the chronological age.\n\nValidated biomarkers of aging would allow for testing interventions to extend lifespan, because changes in the biomarkers would be observable throughout the lifespan of the organism. Although maximum lifespan would be a means of validating biomarkers of aging, it would not be a practical means for long-lived species such as humans because longitudinal studies would take far too much time. Ideally, biomarkers of aging should assay the biological process of ageing and not a predisposition to disease, should cause a minimal amount of trauma to assay in the organism, and should be reproducibly measurable during a short interval compared to the lifespan of the organism.\n\nAlthough graying of hair increases with age, hair graying cannot be called a biomarker of ageing. Similarly, skin wrinkles and other common changes seen with aging are not better indicators of future functionality than chronological age. Biogerontologists have continued efforts to find and validate biomarkers of aging, but success thus far has been limited. Levels of CD4 and CD8 memory T cells and naive T cells have been used to give good predictions of the expected lifespan of middle-aged mice.\n\nAdvances in big data analysis allowed for the new types of \"aging clocks\" to be developed. The epigenetic clock is a promising biomarker of aging and can accurately predict human chronological age. Basic blood biochemistry and cell counts can also be used to accurately predict the chronological age. Further studies of the hematological clock on the large datasets from South Korean, Canadian, and Eastern European populations demonstrated that biomarkers of aging may be population-specific and predictive of mortality.\nIt is also possible to predict the human chronological age using the transcriptomic clock. \n\nA broader acceptance of biomarkers of aging, however, will depend on a better understanding of the observed correlations to the incidence of specific diseases, improved transferability of the models across populations and reduction of costs of the studies. The recent introduction of low-power and compact sensors, based on micro-electromechanical systems (MEMS) has led to a new breed of the wearable and affordable devices providing unparalleled opportunities for the collecting and cloud-storing personal digitized activity records. \nConsequently, modern deep learning techniques could be used to produce a proof-of-concept digital biomarker of age in the form of all-causes-mortality predictor from a sufficiently large collection of one week long human physical activity streams augmented by the rich clinical data (including the death register, as provided by, e.g., the NHANES study).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1606856", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1606856", "title": "Body bag", "text": "Body bag\n\nA body bag, also known as a cadaver pouch or human remains pouch (HRP), is a non-porous bag designed to contain a human body, used for the storage and transportation of corpses. Body bags can also be used for the storage of corpses within morgues. Before purpose-made body bags were available, cotton mattress covers were sometimes used, particularly in combat zones during the Second World War. If not available, other materials were used such as bed sheets, blankets, shelter halves, ponchos, sleeping bag covers, tablecloths, curtains, parachute canopies, tarpaulins, or discarded canvas—“sealed in a blanket”—slang. However, the subsequent rubber (and now plastic) body bag designs are much superior, not least because they prevent leakage of body fluids, which often occurs after someone dies. The dimensions of a body bag are generally around 36 inches by 90 inches (91 cm by 229 cm). Most have some form of carrying handles, usually webbing, at each corner and along the edges.\n\nIn modern warfare, body bags have been used to contain the bodies of dead soldiers. Disaster agencies typically have reserves of body bags, both for anticipated wars and natural disasters. During the Cold War, vast reserves of body bags were built up in anticipation of millions of fatalities from nuclear war. This was the subject of Adrian Mitchell's protest poem \"Fifteen Million Plastic Bags\".\n\nBody bags are sometimes portrayed in films and television as being made of a heavy black plastic. Lightweight white body bags have since become popular because it is much easier to spot a piece of evidence that may have been jostled from the body in transit on a white background than on a black background. Even so, black body bags are still in general use. Other typical colors include orange, blue, or gray. Body bags used in the Vietnam War were heavy-duty black rubberized fabric. Regardless of their color, body bags are made of thick plastic and have a full-length zipper on them. Sometimes the zipper runs straight down the middle. Alternatively, the path of the zipper may be J-shaped or D-shaped. Depending on the design, there are sometimes handles (two on each side) to facilitate lifting. It is possible to write information on the plastic surface of a body bag using a marker pen, and this often happens—either in situ (particularly when a large number of bodies are being collected) or at the mortuary, before being stored in refrigerated cabinets. Alternatively, some designs of body bags have transparent label pockets as an integral part of the design, into which a name-card can be inserted. In any case, a conventional toe tag can easily be tied to one of the lifting handles if required. Body bags are not designed to be washed and re-used. Aside from the obvious hygiene concerns, re-use of body bags could easily contaminate evidence in the case of a suspicious death. As a result, body bags are routinely discarded and incinerated after one use. In Afghanistan US forces have used body bags to deliver ammunition, medical supplies, and rations to troops in the field. Fifty or so pounds of supplies are packed loose in a body bag and pulled out of the helicopter delivering them to be easily and rapidly dragged to cover by one or two soldiers.\n\nAlthough body bags are most often used for the transport of human remains from their place of discovery to a funeral home or mortuary, they can also be used for temporary burials such as in a combat zone. In such situations, proper funerals are impossible because of imminent enemy attack. This was the situation during the Falklands War of 1982, during which British dead were placed in gray plastic body bags and then laid in mass graves. Some months after the conflict ended, all remains were exhumed from their temporary graves to receive a conventional funeral service with full military honors.\n\nThe term \"body bag\" is sometimes used for fashion or other bags worn on the body (\"sling body bag\" or \"across body bag\") and this sense has no connection with either of the two above senses.\n\nWith the addition of provision for breathing, specially adapted body bags are also used for the BDSM practice of mummification.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "634140", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=634140", "title": "Breeder", "text": "Breeder\n\nA breeder is a person who selectively breeds carefully selected mates, normally of the same breed to sexually reproduce offspring with specific, consistently replicable qualities and characteristics. This might be as a farmer, agriculturalist, or hobbyist, and can be practiced on a large or small scale, for food, fun, or profit.\n\nA breeder can breed purebred pets such as cats or dogs, livestock such as cattle or horses, and may show their animals professionally in assorted forms of competitions In these specific instances, the breeder strives to meet standards in each animal set out by organizations. A breeder may also assist with the breeding animals in the zoo. In other cases, a breeder can be referred to an animal scientist who has the capabilities of developing more efficient ways to produce the meat and other animal products humans eat.\n\nEarnings as a breeder vary widely because of the various types of work involved in the job title. Even in breeding small domestic animals, the earning differ. It mostly depends on the type of animal being bred and whether or not the breeder has a reputation of breeding champions. The US Bureau of Labor Statistics reports that large animal breeders that work as veterinarians earned a median annual income of $61,029 in 2006. The other individuals employed in the field of animal science earned $47,800.\n\nTo breed small and domestic animals, no formal training or credentials are required, though it is recommended they familiarize themselves with the desired and standard characteristics of the breed they work with. For those who are seeking to breed more exotic animals, such as those in a zoo, a bachelor's degree in veterinary science is needed. It is also recommended that an individuals also goes onto graduate school and specializes in zoology. To breed agricultural animals, a 4-year degree in agricultural science is needed for most entry-level positions.\n\n"}
{"id": "536789", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=536789", "title": "Cabbit", "text": "Cabbit\n\nA cabbit is a fictional hybrid between a cat and a rabbit. They have appeared in fiction and fantasy stories including Japanese anime and manga, and have also been dubiously purported to have been observed in the wild. Most if not all observations are attributable to either misidentified Manx cats or outright hoaxes.\n\nA cat-rabbit hybrid creature was first incorrectly documented by Joseph Train of Castle Douglas, Galloway, Scotland, in his \"An Historical and Statistical Account of the Isle of Man\", where he opined that the local Manx cat was such a hybrid: \"My observations on the structure and habits of the specimen in my possession, leave little doubt on my mind of its being a \"mule\", or cross between the female cat and the buck rabbit.\" Train also refers to the tufty tail on the posterior of the \"Manks\" cat as being a \"fud\" (), \"or brush like that of a rabbit.\" Scientific study has determined that such a hybrid is genetically impossible.\n\nThe portmanteau term \"cabbit\" is used for such imagined hybrids. The exact year of coinage is uncertain. The term was used in 1977 to describe a specimen found in New Mexico and exhibited in Los Angeles. The specimen was showcased on The Tonight Show and was later determined to be a cat with a deformed pelvis.\n\nManx cats and other cats with tailless or bobtailed mutations account for many alleged cabbit sightings. The mutation that causes taillessness can also cause skeletal and/or nerve abnormalities that result in the cat's using a hopping motion. This was once accepted by breeders as a feature of the Manx's look, but is now considered a serious fault in the show-ring and does not form part of the modern Manx standard of points. Modern breeders of the Manx are careful to breed only from cats that have normal locomotion. The relatively long hind legs of the Manx, combined with taillessness or a very short tail, give the impression of a rabbit.\n\nIn 1947, Grace Cox-Ife wrote: \"There are several points about a Manx that make it anything but ordinary. The chief one is, of course, its taillessness; but this is not quite the whole story. Not only must a Manx have no tail but it should really be a further joint or more short on the spinal column; that is to say there should be a hollow where the tail would normally begin. Then there is the gait – a rabbity hop rather than a walk- which is caused by the height of the hindquarters: according to the Manx Cat Club these \"cannot be too high, and the back cannot be too short, while there must be great depth of flank. The head should be round and large, but not of the snubby or Persian type.\n\nRose Tenent wrote: \"No cat is more fascinating than the tailless Manx, with its rabbit-like hoppity gait [...] . The hind legs are considerably longer than the front ones, thus giving the cat its peculiar hopping gait; incidentally, also the reason for the reasonable theory held in some quarters that the Manx cat is the result of a cross-mating between a cat and a rabbit.\"\n\nOccasionally the flap of loose skin from the belly to the haunches is absent, enhancing the visual similarity to a rabbit.\n\nCats with radial hypoplasia (abnormal short forelegs) may also adopt a rabbit-like gait.\n\n"}
{"id": "2482593", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2482593", "title": "Cairo Gang", "text": "Cairo Gang\n\nThe Cairo Gang was a group of British intelligence agents who were sent to Dublin during the Irish War of Independence to conduct intelligence operations against prominent members of the Irish Republican Army (IRA) – according to Irish intelligence with the intention of assassinating them. Twelve men including British Army officers, Royal Irish Constabulary officers and a civilian informant were killed on the morning of 21 November 1920 by the Irish Republican Army in a planned series of simultaneous early-morning strikes engineered by Michael Collins. The events were the first killings of Bloody Sunday.\n\nSome Irish historians (such as Tim Pat Coogan and Conor Cruise O'Brien) dispute assertions of a common history of service in the Middle East as the reason for the unit's \"nom de guerre\". It has been suggested that they received the name because they often held meetings at Cafe Cairo at 59 Grafton Street in Dublin. Earlier books on the 1919–1923 period do not refer to the Cairo Gang by that name.\n\nBy 1920, the IRA's Dublin headquarters, under the direction of Michael Collins had effectively eliminated, through targeted assassination and intelligence penetration, the G Division of the Dublin Metropolitan Police, previously the mainstay of the Crown's intelligence operations against Irish Republicans. In response the Dublin Castle administration, the then headquarters of the British government in Ireland were forced to look for external intelligence support.\n\nIn January 1920, the British Army Intelligence Centre in Ireland stood up a special plainclothes unit of 18–20 demobilized ex-army officers and some active-duty officers to conduct clandestine operations against the IRA. The officers received training at a school of instruction in London, most likely under the supervision of Special Branch, which had been part of Britain's Directorate of Home Intelligence since February 1919. They may also have received some training from MI5 officers and former officers working for Special Branch. Army Centre, Dublin, hoped these officers could eventually be divided up and deployed to the provinces to support its 5th and 6th Division intelligence staffs, but it decided to keep it in Dublin under the command of the Dublin District Division, General Gerald Boyd, commanding. It was known officially as the Dublin District Special Branch (DDSB) and also as \"D Branch\". In May 1920, Lieutenant Colonel Walter Wilson arrived in Dublin to take command of D Branch.\n\nFollowing the events of Bloody Sunday, 21 November 1920, when twelve D Branch officers were assassinated by the Irish Republican Army under the command of Michael Collins, D Branch was transferred to the command of Brigadier-General Sir Ormonde Winter in January 1921. Winter had been placed in charge of a new police intelligence unit, the Combined Intelligence Service, in May 1920, and his charter was to set up a central intelligence clearing house to more effectively collate and coordinate army and police intelligence. Those members of D Branch who survived Bloody Sunday were very unhappy to be transferred from army command to CIS command, and for the next six months, until the Truce of July 1921, D Branch continued to maintain regular contact with Army Intelligence Centre while undertaking missions for Winter's CIS.\nThe famous photograph that is widely accepted as showing members of the Cairo Gang is lodged in the National Library of Ireland photographic archive Piaras Béaslaí collection (five copies). An inscription describes the men as \"the special gang F company Auxiliaries\". There are no names or details on the back of the photos. Three other photos in the collection show Auxiliaries posing on vehicles in the grounds of Dublin Castle. These three photos are similarly numbered.\n\nThe Cairo Gang members lived unobtrusively at nice addresses, in boarding houses and hotels across Dublin while preparing a hit list of known Republicans. However, the IRA Intelligence Department (IRAID) was one step ahead of them and was receiving information from numerous well-placed sources, including Lily Merin, who was the confidential code clerk for British Army Intelligence Centre in Parkgate Street, and Sergeant Jerry Mannix, stationed in Donnybrook. Mannix provided the IRAID with a list of names and addresses for all the members of the Cairo Gang. In addition, Michael Collins's case officers on the intelligence staff—Liam Tobin, Tom Cullen and Frank Thornton—were meeting with several D Branch officers nightly, pretending to be informers. Another IRA penetration source participating in the nightly repartee with the D Branch men at Cafe Cairo, Rabiatti's Saloon and Kidds Back Pub was Detective Constable David Neligan, one of Michael Collins's penetrations of G-Division, the secret detectives of the Dublin Metropolitan Police. Additionally, the IRA had co-opted most of the Irish servants who worked in the rooming houses where the D Branch officers lived, and all of their comings and goings were meticulously recorded by servants and reported to Collins's staff.\n\nAll the members of the gang were kept under surveillance for several weeks, and intelligence was gathered from sympathisers (for example, concerning people who were coming home at strange hours, which would indicate that they were being allowed through the military curfew). The IRA Dublin Brigade and the IRAID then pooled their resources and intelligence to draw up their own hit list of suspected gang members and set the date for the assassinations to be carried out on 21 November 1920 at 9:00 am.\n\nThe operation was planned by several senior IRA members, including Michael Collins, Dick McKee, Liam Tobin, Peadar Clancy, Tom Cullen, Frank Thornton and Oscar Traynor. The killings were planned to coincide with a Gaelic football match between Dublin and Tipperary, because the large crowds around Dublin would allow easier movement for the Volunteers and make it more difficult for the British to detect Collins's Squad members as they carried out the assassinations.\n\nClancy and McKee were picked up by Crown forces on the evening of Saturday, 20 November. They were tortured and later shot dead \"while trying to escape\".\n\nTortured and killed with them was Conor Clune (the nephew of Archbishop Clune of Perth, who had been senior chaplain to the Catholic members of the Australian Imperial Force in World War I). Clune was manager of the seed and plant nursery owned by Edward MacLysaght near Quin, and Clune and MacLysaght travelled to Dublin on the morning of Saturday, 20 November 1920, bringing with him the books of the Raheen Co-op for its annual audit. Clune was arrested in a raid on Vaughan's Hotel in Dublin, where he was a registered guest.\n\nThe operation began at 9:00 am, when members of the Squad entered 28 Pembroke Street. The first British agents to die were Major Charles Milne Cholmeley Dowling and Captain Leonard Price. Andy Cooney of the Dublin Brigade removed documents from their rooms.\n\nThree more members of the Gang were shot in the same house: Captain Brian Christopher Headlam Keenlyside, Colonel Wilfrid Woodcock, and Lieutenant-Colonel Hugh Montgomery. Woodcock was not connected with intelligence and had walked into a confrontation on the first floor of the Pembroke Street house as he was preparing to leave to command a regimental parade at army headquarters. He was in his military uniform, and, when he shouted to warn the other five British officers living in the house, he was shot in the shoulder and back, but survived. As Keenlyside was about to be shot, a struggle ensued between his wife and Mick O'Hanlon. The leader of the unit, Mick Flanagan, arrived, pushed Mrs Keenlyside out of the way and shot her husband.\n\nAt 117 Morehampton Road, Donnybrook, 2.3 km from the scene of the first shootings, another member of the Cairo Gang, Lieutenant Donald Lewis MacLean, along with suspected informer TH Smith and MacLean's brother-in-law, John Caldow, were taken into the hallway and about to be shot, when MacLean asked that they not be shot in front of his wife. The three were taken to an unused bedroom and shot. Caldow survived his wounds and fled to his home in Scotland.\n\nJust 800 metres away, at 92 Lower Baggot Street, another member, Captain William Frederick Newberry, and his wife heard their front door come crashing down and blockaded themselves into their bedroom. Newberry rushed for his window to try to escape but was shot while climbing out by Bill Stapleton and Joe Leonard after they finally broke the door down.\n\nTwo key members of the Gang, Lieutenant Peter Ashmun Ames and Captain George Bennett, were made to stand facing the wall on a bed in a downstairs rear bedroom and shot by Vinny Byrne and others in his squad. A maid had let the attackers into 38 Upper Mount Street and indicated, at gunpoint, the rooms occupied by the two targeted men. Despite many accounts to the contrary, Byrne was not involved in the killings in Morehampton Road that morning.\n\nSergeant John J Fitzgerald, of the Royal Irish Constabulary, also known as \"Captain Fitzgerald\" or \"Captain Fitzpatrick\", whose father was from County Tipperary, was killed a kilometre away at 28 Earlsfort Terrace. He had survived a previous assassination attempt when a bullet grazed his head. This time he was shot twice in the head. The documents found in his house detailed the movements of senior IRA members.\n\nAn IRA unit led by Tom Keogh entered 22 Lower Mount Street to kill Lieutenant Henry Angliss, \"alias\" Patrick Mahon, and Lieutenant Charles Ratsch Peel. The two intelligence specialists in the Gang, Angliss and Peel, had been recalled from Russia to organise British intelligence operations in the South Dublin area. Angliss had survived a previous assassination attempt when he had been shot at in a billiard hall. He was targeted for killing Sinn Féin fundraiser John Lynch, mistaken for General Liam Lynch, Divisional Commandant of the 1st Southern Division, IRA. Angliss was shot as he reached for his gun.\n\nPeel, hearing the shots, managed to block his bedroom door and survived even though more than a dozen bullets were fired into his room. When members of Fianna Éireann on lookout reported that the Auxiliary Division were approaching the house, the unit of eleven men split up into two groups, the first leaving by the front door, the second through the laneway at the back of the house.\n\nAt 119 Baggot Street, a three-man unit killed Captain Geoffrey Thomas Baggallay, a barrister who had been employed as a prosecutor under the Restoration of Order in Ireland Act 1920 regulations, and who had been a member of military courts that sentenced IRA volunteers to death.\n\nCaptain Patrick McCormack and Lieutenant Leonard Wilde were in the classy Gresham Hotel in O'Connell Street. The IRA unit gained access to their rooms by pretending to be British soldiers with important dispatches. When the men opened their doors they were shot and killed. A \"Times\" listing for McCormack and Wilde does not list any rank for the latter. McCormack's killing was a mistake. He was a member of the Royal Army Veterinary Corps and was in Ireland to buy horses for the British Army. He was shot in bed and Collins himself later acknowledged the error. Unlike the other British officers, McCormack, a Catholic from Castlebar, was buried in Ireland, at Glasnevin Cemetery, Dublin.\n\nCaptain John Scott Crawford, in charge of motor repair of the British Army Service Corps, narrowly escaped death after the IRA entered a guesthouse in Fitzwilliam Square where he was staying, looking for a Major Callaghan. On not finding their target, they debated whether or not to shoot Crawford. They decided not to shoot him as he was not on their list; instead they gave him 24 hours to leave Ireland, which he promptly did.\n\nIn the Eastwood Hotel at 91 Lower Leeson Street the IRA failed to find their target, Captain Thomas Jennings. Other targets who escaped were Captain Jocelyn Hardy and Major William Lorraine King, a colleague of Hardy who was missing when Joe Dolan burst into King's room. According to the prim Todd Andrews, Dolan took revenge by giving King's half-naked mistress \"a right scourging with a sword scabbard\", and setting fire to the room afterwards.\n\nMajor Frank Murray Maxwell Hallowell Carew, an intelligence officer who with Captain Price had almost cornered 3rd Tipperary Brigade commander Seán Treacy a month before, was on the list. (Treacy had been killed by G men as he tried to shoot his way out of a trap on 14 October, a week before the day of the Cairo Gang assassinations.)\n\nWhen the IRA came calling for Murray, he had moved to an apartment across the street. He heard the gunfire at his former lodging and fired his revolver at an IRA sentry outside. The sentry was hit and took cover inside the house. The Volunteers moved on.\n\nSeveral IRA men carried sledgehammers with them the morning of 21 November, as they expected to encounter bolted doors. They did not find any, but T Ryle Dwyer claims that they used them to smash the skulls and faces of some of the officers they had shot.\n\nTwo members of the Auxiliary Cadet Division, Temporary Cadets Frank Garniss, aged 34, and Cecil Augustus Morris, aged 24, were among a patrol of Auxiliaries who responded to the scene of one of the attacks, armed with .45 calibre Webley revolvers and a carbine. Garniss and Morris were shot and killed as they sought to cordon off the rear of one of the scenes of assassination.\n\nA \"Times\" listing of killed and wounded reports that in addition to Caldow, Captain Brian Keenlyside, Colonel Hugh Montgomery, Major (Wilfrid) Woodcock, and Lieutenant Randolph Murray were wounded, but not killed. Montgomery died 10 December 1920 of the wounds he received on Bloody Sunday.\n\nNineteen men were shot. Fourteen were killed on 21 November; Montgomery died later, making fifteen in all. Five were wounded (including King's mistress). Ames, Angliss, Baggallay, Bennet, Dowling, Fitzgerald, McCormack, MacLean, Montgomery, Newberry, Price, Wilde, Smith, Morris and Garniss were killed. Keenlyside, Woodcock, Murray and Caldow were wounded. Peel and others escaped.\nThe dead included members of the \"Cairo Gang\", British Army Courts-Martial officers, the two Auxiliaries and a civilian informant.\n\nOf the IRA men involved, only Frank Teeling was captured during the operation. He was court-martialled and sentenced to hang, but escaped from Kilmainham Gaol before the sentence could be carried out. Patrick Moran and Thomas Whelan were arrested later and, despite their protestations of innocence and witnesses attesting to alibis, were hanged for murder in connection with the killings on 14 March 1921.\n\nThe remaining Cairo Gang members, along with many other spies, fled to either Dublin Castle or England, fearing they were next on the IRA's hit list. Another member committed suicide in Dublin Castle. The deaths and flights dealt a severe blow to British intelligence gathering in Ireland.\n\nEventually another group of intelligence operatives led by Head Constable Eugene Igoe from Mayo took the fight to the IRA. Officially known as the Identification Branch of the Combined Intelligence Service (CIS), Igoe reported to Colonel Ormonde Winter.\n\nThe Igoe Gang consisted of RIC personnel drawn from different parts of Ireland who patrolled the streets of Dublin in plain clothes, looking for wanted men. The Igoe Gang posed a serious threat to Collins's apparatus and in fact caught a Volunteer whom Collins had brought to Dublin to identify Igoe. They were never penetrated by the IRA. Igoe later conducted secret service operations for Special Branch over many years in other countries, but never returned to his farm in Mayo out of fear of reprisal. Brigadier General Winter appeared on Igoe's behalf to obtain an increase in his pension in view of his many services to the Crown in Ireland and elsewhere.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "419952", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=419952", "title": "Calcium metabolism", "text": "Calcium metabolism\n\nCalcium metabolism refers to the movements and regulation of calcium ions (Ca) \"in\" and \"out\" of various body compartments, such as the gastrointestinal tract, the blood plasma, the extracellular and intracellular fluids, and bone tissue. An important aspect of calcium metabolism is plasma calcium homeostasis, the regulation of calcium ions in the blood plasma within narrow limits. In this process, bone tissue acts as a calcium storage center for deposits and withdrawals as needed by the blood, via continual bone remodeling. Derangement of this mechanism leads to hypercalcemia or hypocalcemia, both of which can have consequences for health. The level of the calcium in humans' plasma is regulated by calcitonin and parathyroid hormone (PTH); calcitonin is released by the thyroid gland once its plasma level is above its set normal point (in order to lower calcium level); PTH is released by the parathyroid glands when calcium level falls below set point (in order to raise it).\n\nCalcium is the most abundant mineral in the human body. The average adult body contains in total approximately 1 kg, 99% in the skeleton in the form of calcium phosphate salts . The extracellular fluid (ECF) contains approximately 22 mmol, of which about 9 mmol is in the plasma. Approximately 10 mmol of calcium is exchanged between bone and the ECF over a period of twenty-four hours. The concentration of calcium ions inside the cells (in the intracellular fluid) is more than 7,000 times lower than in the blood plasma (i.e. at <0.0002 mmol/L, compared with 1.4 mmol/L in the plasma)\n\nCalcium has several main functions in the body. It readily binds to proteins, particularly those with amino acids whose side chains terminate in carboxyl (-COOH) groups (e.g. glutamate residues). When such binding occurs the electrical charges on the protein chain change, causing the protein's tertiary structure (i.e. 3-dimensional form) to change. Good examples of this are several of the clotting factors in the blood plasma, which are functionless in the absence of calcium ions, but become fully functional on the addition of the correct concentration of calcium salts. The voltage gated sodium ion channels in the cell membranes of nerves and muscle are particularly sensitive to the calcium ion concentration in the plasma. Relatively small decreases in the plasma ionized calcium levels (hypocalcemia) cause these channels to leak sodium into the nerve cells or axons, making them hyper-excitable (positive bathmotropic effect), thus causing spontaneous muscle spasms (tetany) and paraesthesia (the sensation of \"pins and needles\") of the extremities and round the mouth. When the plasma ionized calcium rises above normal (hypercalcemia) more calcium is bound to these sodium channels having a negative bathmotropic effect on them, causing lethargy, muscle weakness, anorexia, constipation and labile emotions.\n\nBecause the intracellular calcium ion concentration is extremely low (see above) the entry of minute quantities of calcium ions from the endoplasmic reticulum or from the extracellular fluids, cause rapid, very marked, and readily reversible changes in the relative concentration of these ions in the cytosol. This can therefore serve as a very effective intracellular signal (or \"second messenger\") in a variety of circumstances, including muscle contraction, the release of hormones (e.g. insulin from the beta cells in the pancreatic islets) or neurotransmitters (e.g. acetylcholine from pre-synaptic terminals of nerves) and other functions.\n\nCalcium acts structurally as supporting material in bones as calcium hydroxyapatite (Ca(PO)(OH)).\n\nIn skeletal and heart muscle calcium ions, released from the sarcoplasmic reticulum (the endoplasmic reticulum of striated muscles) binds to the troponin C protein present on the actin-containing thin filaments of the myofibrils. The troponin's 3D structure changes as a result, causing the tropomyosin to which it is attached to be rolled away from the myosin-binding sites on the actin molecules that form the back-bone of the thin filaments. Myosin can then bind to the exposed myosin-binding sites on the thin filament, to undergo a repeating series of conformational changes called the cross-bridge cycle, for which ATP provides the energy. During the cycle, each myosin protein ‘paddles’ along the thin actin filament, repeatedly binding to myosin-binding sites along the actin filament, ratcheting and letting go. In effect, the thick filament moves or slides along the thin filament, resulting in muscle contraction. This process is known as the sliding filament model of muscle contraction.\n\nThe plasma \"total calcium\" concentration is in the range of 2.2-2.6 mmol/L (9-10.5 mg/dL), and the normal \"ionized calcium\" is 1.3-1.5 mmol/L (4.5-5.6 mg/dL). The amount of total calcium in the blood varies with the level of plasma albumin, the most abundant protein in plasma, and therefore the main carrier of protein-bound calcium in the blood. The biologic effect of calcium is, however, determined by the amount of \"ionized calcium\", rather than the total calcium. It is therefore the plasma ionized calcium level which is tightly regulated to remain within very narrow limits by homeostatic negative feedback systems.\n\nBetween 35-50% of the calcium in plasma is protein-bound, and 5-10% is in the form of complexes with organic acids and phosphates. The remainder (50-60%) is ionized. The ionized calcium can be determined directly by colorimetry, or it can be read off from nomograms, though the usefulness of the latter is limited when the pH and protein content of the plasma deviate widely from the normal.\n\nNot all the calcium in the diet can be readily absorbed from the gut. The calcium that is most readily absorbed is found in dairy product and eggs, as well as in tinned fish products. The calcium contained in vegetable matter is often complexed with phytates, oxalates, citrate and other organic acids, such as the long-chained fatty acids (e.g. palmitic acid), with which calcium binds to form insoluble calcium soaps.\n\nAlthough calcium flow to and from the bone is neutral, about 5–10 mmol is turned over a day. Bone serves as an important storage point for calcium, as it contains 99% of the total body calcium. Calcium release from bone is regulated by parathyroid hormone in conjunction with calcitriol manufactured in the kidney under the influence of PTH. Calcitonin (a hormone secreted by the thyroid gland when plasma ionized calcium levels are high or rising; not to be confused with \"calcitriol\" which is manufactured in the kidney) stimulates incorporation of calcium into bone.\n\nThe normal adult diet contains about 25 mmol of calcium per day. Only about 5 mmol of this is absorbed into the body per day (see below).\n\nCalcium is absorbed across the intestinal epithelial cell's brush border membrane and is immediately bound to calbindin, a vitamin D-dependent calcium-binding protein. Calbindin transfers the calcium directly into the epithelial cell's endoplasmic reticulum, through which the calcium is transferred to the basal membrane on the opposite side of the cell, without entering its cytosol or intracellular fluid. From there protein-coding gene TRPV6 and calcium pumps (PMCA1) actively transport calcium into the body. Active transport of calcium occurs primarily in the duodenum portion of the intestine when calcium intake is low; and through passive paracellular transport in the jejunum and ileum parts when calcium intake is high, independently of Vitamin D level.\n\nThe active absorption of calcium from the gut is regulated by the calcitriol (or 1,25 dihydroxycholecalciferol, or 1,25 dihydroxyvitamin D) concentration in the blood. Calcitriol is a cholesterol derivative. Under the influence of ultraviolet light on the skin, cholesterol is converted to previtamin D which spontaneously isomerizes to vitamin D (or cholecaliferol). It is then converted from cholecaliferol to calcifediol in the liver. Under the influence of parathyroid hormone, the kidneys convert calcifediol into the active hormone calcitriol, which acts on the epithelial cells (enterocytes) lining the small intestine to increase the rate of absorption of calcium from the intestinal contents. In short the cycle is following:\n\nLow PTH levels in the blood (which occur under physiological conditions when the plasma ionized calcium levels are high) inhibit the conversion of cholecalciferol into calcitriol, which in turn inhibits calcium absorption from the gut. The opposite happens when the plasma ionized calcium levels are low: parathyroid hormone is secreted into the blood and the kidneys convert more calcifediol into the active calcitriol, increasing calcium absorption from the gut.\n\nSince about 15 mmol of calcium is excreted into the intestine via the bile per day, the total amount of calcium that reaches the duodenum and jejunum each day is about 40 mmol (25 mmol from the diet plus 15 mmol from the bile), of which, on average, 20 mmol is absorbed (back) into the blood. The net result is that about 5 mmol more calcium is absorbed from the gut than is excreted into it via the bile. If there is no active bone building (as in childhood), or increased need for calcium during pregnancy and lactation, the 5 mmol calcium that is absorbed from the gut makes up for urinary losses that are only partially regulated.\n\nThe kidney filters 250 mmol of calcium ions a day in pro-urine (or glomerular filtrate), and resorbs 245 mmol, leading to a net average loss in the urine of about 5 mmol/d. The quantity of calcium ions excreted in the urine per day is partially under the influence of the plasma parathyroid hormone (PTH) level - high levels of PTH decreasing the rate of calcium ion excretion, and low levels increasing it. However, parathyroid hormone has a greater effect on the quantity of phosphate ions (HPO) excreted in the urine. Phosphates form insoluble salts in combination with calcium ions. High concentrations of HPO in the plasma, therefore, lower the ionized calcium level in the extra-cellular fluids. Thus, the excretion of more phosphate than calcium ions in the urine raises the plasma ionized calcium level, even though the total calcium concentration might be lowered. The kidney influences the plasma ionized calcium concentration in yet another manner. It processes vitamin D into calcitriol, the active form that is most effective in promoting the intestinal absorption of calcium. This conversion of vitamin D into calcitriol, is also promoted by high plasma parathyroid hormone levels.\n\nMost excretion of excess calcium is via the bile and feces, because the plasma calcitriol levels (which ultimately depend on the plasma calcium levels) regulate how much of the biliary calcium is reabsorbed from the intestinal contents. Urinary excretion of calcium is relatively modest (about 5 mmol/day) in comparison to what can be excreted via the feces (15 mmol/day).\n\nThe plasma ionized calcium concentration is regulated within narrow limits (1.3–1.5 mmol/L). This is achieved by both the parafollicular cells of the thyroid gland, and the parathyroid glands constantly sensing (i.e. measuring) the concentration of calcium ions in the blood flowing through them. \n\nWhen the concentration rises the parafollicular cells of the thyroid gland increase their secretion of calcitonin (a proteinaceous hormone) into the blood. At the same time the parathyroid glands reduce their rate of parathyroid hormone (or PTH, also a proteinaceous hormone) secretion into the blood. The resulting high levels of calcitonin in the blood stimulate the skeleton to remove calcium from the blood plasma, and deposit it as bone.\n\nThe reduced levels of PTH inhibit removal of calcium from the skeleton. The low levels of PTH have several other effects: they increase the loss of calcium in the urine, but more importantly inhibit the loss of phosphate ions via that route. Phosphate ions will therefore be retained in the plasma where they form insoluble salts with calcium ions, thereby removing them from the ionized calcium pool in the blood. The low levels of PTH also inhibit the formation of calcitriol (not to be confused with calcitonin) from cholecalciferol (vitamin D) by the kidneys. \n\nThe reduction in the blood calcitriol concentration acts (comparatively slowly) on the epithelial cells (enterocytes) of the duodenum inhibiting their ability to absorb calcium from the intestinal contents. The low calcitriol levels also act on bone causing the osteoclasts to release fewer calcium ions into the blood plasma.\n\nWhen the plasma ionized calcium level is low or falls the opposite happens. Calcitonin secretion is inhibited and PTH secretion is stimulated, resulting in calcium being removed from bone to rapidly correct the plasma calcium level. The high plasma PTH levels inhibit calcium loss via the urine while stimulating the excretion of phosphate ions via that route. They also stimulate the kidneys to manufacture calcitriol (a steroid hormone), which enhances the ability of the cells lining the gut to absorb calcium from the intestinal contents into the blood, by stimulating the production of calbindin in these cells. The PTH stimulated production of calcitriol also causes calcium to be released from bone into the blood, by the release of RANKL (a cytokine, or local hormone) from the osteoblasts which increases the bone resorptive activity by the osteoclasts. These are, however, a relatively slow processes\n\nThus fast short term regulation of the plasma ionized calcium level primarily involves rapid movements of calcium into or out of the skeleton. Longer term regulation is achieved by regulating the amount of calcium absorbed from the gut or lost via the feces.\n\nHypocalcemia (low blood calcium) and hypercalcemia (high blood calcium) are both serious medical disorders. Osteoporosis, osteomalacia and rickets are bone disorders linked to calcium metabolism disorders and effects of vitamin D. Renal osteodystrophy is a consequence of chronic renal failure related to the calcium metabolism.\n\nA low calcium intake may be a risk factor in the development of osteoporosis in later life. In one meta-analysis, the authors found that in fifty out of the fifty-two studies that they reviewed, a diet adequately rich in calcium reduced calcium loss from bone with advancing (post-menopausal) age. A diet with sustained adequate amounts of calcium reduced the risk of osteoporosis.\n\nThe role that calcium might have in reducing the rates of colorectal cancer has been the subject of many studies. However, given its modest efficacy, there is no current medical recommendation to use calcium for cancer reduction.\nSeveral epidemiological studies suggest that people with high calcium intake have a reduced risk of colorectal cancer. These observations have been confirmed by experimental studies in volunteers and in rodents. One large scale clinical trial shows that 1.2 g calcium each day reduces, modestly, intestinal polyps recurrence in volunteers. Data from the four published trials are available. Some forty carcinogenesis studies in rats or mice, reported in the Chemoprev.Database, also support that calcium could prevent intestinal cancer.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58001579", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58001579", "title": "Calcutta (1798 EIC ship)", "text": "Calcutta (1798 EIC ship)\n\nCalcutta was launched in 1798 as an East Indiaman. She made four voyages for the British East India Company (EIC), and disappeared while homeward bound from Bengal on her fifth voyage.\n\nCaptain William Maxwell acquired a letter of marque on 1 May 1798. He sailed from Portsmouth on 8 June 1798, bound for St Helena, Bengal, Bombay, and Madras. \"Calcutta\" reached St Helena on 19 August and arrived at Diamond Harbour on 21 December. She was at Saugor on 28 January 1799, Cannanore on 7 March, Bombay on 26 April, and Madras on 4 July. She returned to Diamond Harbour on 18 August. Homeward bound, she was at Saugor on 23 September and Madras again on 21 October and the Cape of Good Hope on 31 December. She reached St Helena on 27 January 1800 and arrived at Long Reach on 2 June.\n\nCaptain Maxwell sailed from Portsmouth on 31 March 1801, bound for Madras and Bengal. \"Calcutta\" reached Madras on 26 July and arrived at Diamond Harbour on 20 August. Homeward bound, she was at Saugor on 13 January 1802 and Madras on 7 February. She reached St Helena on 14 May and arrived at Long Reach on 19 July. \n\nCaptain Maxwell sailed from Portsmouth on 12 April 1803, bound for Madras and Bengal. The Peace of Amiens had failed and war with France had resumed. Maxwell received a letter of marque on 2 July.\n\n\"Calcutta\" reached Madras on 4 August and Vizagapatam on 22 August before she arrived at Diamond Harbour on 29 August. She was at Kedgeree on 24 September and Saugor on 14 October, before returning Kedgeree on 24 December. Homeward bound, she was at Saugor on 22 January 1804, reached St Helena on 28 June, and arrived at Long Reach on 16 October. \n\nCaptain John Reddie acquired a letter of marque on 9 February 1805. He sailed from Portsmouth on 8 March 1805, bound for St Helena, Bengal and Madras. \"Calcutta\" reached St Helena on 5 June and arrived at Diamond Harbour on 27 September. She was at Saugor on 29 October and Bencoolen on 22 December before she returned to Diamond Harbour on 13 May 1806 and Calcutta on 18 June.\n\nAs \"Calcutta\" was leaving Bengal in July, she grounded. It was expected that she would have to return to the dock to repair. \n\nHomeward bound, she was at Saugor on 30 August, Madras on 7 October, Trincomalee on 18 October, and the Cape on 30 December. She reached St Helena on 23 January 1807 and arrived at Long Reach on 15 April.\n\nCaptain William Maxwell sailed from Portsmouth on 5 March 1808, bound for Madras and Bengal.\n\nOn 14 March 1809 \"Calcutta\", , , and , parted company with the main homeward bound convoy of East Indiamen off Mauritius in a gale. \"Lloyd's List\" reported on 26 September 1809 that they had not been heard of since parting from the fleet.\n\nThe four ships were never heard of again. The hull of one of them was sighted overturned off Mauritius the following October, but sank before it could be identified. The EIC valued the cargo that it lost on \"Calcutta\" at £124,452.\n\nCitations\n\nReferences\n"}
{"id": "13526929", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13526929", "title": "Compositional pattern-producing network", "text": "Compositional pattern-producing network\n\nCompositional pattern-producing networks (CPPNs) are a variation of artificial neural networks (ANNs) that have an architecture whose evolution is guided by genetic algorithms.\n\nWhile ANNs often contain only sigmoid functions and sometimes Gaussian functions, CPPNs can include both types of functions and many others. The choice of functions for the canonical set can be biased toward specific types of patterns and regularities. For example, periodic functions such as sine produce segmented patterns with repetitions, while symmetric functions such as Gaussian produce symmetric patterns. Linear functions can be employed to produce linear or fractal-like patterns. Thus, the architect of a CPPN-based genetic art system can bias the types of patterns it generates by deciding the set of canonical functions to include.\n\nFurthermore, unlike typical ANNs, CPPNs are applied across the entire space of possible inputs so that they can represent a complete image. Since they are compositions of functions, CPPNs in effect encode images at infinite resolution and can be sampled for a particular display at whatever resolution is optimal.\n\nCPPNs can be evolved through neuroevolution techniques such as neuroevolution of augmenting topologies (called CPPN-NEAT).\n\nCPPNs have been shown to be a very powerful encoding when evolving the following:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18645314", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18645314", "title": "Death of Kenton Joel Carnegie", "text": "Death of Kenton Joel Carnegie\n\nKenton Joel Carnegie (February 11, 1983 – November 8, 2005) was a 22-year-old Canadian geological engineering student from Ontario on a work term from the University of Waterloo who died in a predatory animal attack while he was walking in the snow near Points North Landing. Subsequent investigations did not reach a consensus about whether his death was caused by wolves or black bears.\n\nPoints North Landing in the province of Saskatchewan is a service centre for uranium mines. Timber wolves and bears fed on camp refuse and were seen nearby. Ten months prior to Carnegie's death, a lone wolf attacked a fifty-five-year-old uranium miner named Fred Desjarlais who was jogging home from work in Key Lake. He wrestled with it until a busload of his colleagues arrived to rescue him by frightening the wolf away. They subsequently took Desjarlais to a nearby medical facility. A few hours later, an air ambulance took Desjarlais to Saskatoon's Royal University Hospital where he had a series of rabies treatments. After the assault on Desjarlais, Cameco built an electric fence around Key Lake's landfill to prevent further predatory animal assaults on miners. Authorities hunted and shot the wolf that attacked Desjarlais. They tested the wolf's body for rabies, but the test was negative. On November 4, 2005, one naturalist who reviewed photographs taken during an incident in which wolves that were supposed to have menaced two walkers other than Carnegie, said it appeared to be consistent with animals having a food-conditioned lack of fear in proximity to humans. It was suggested that one wolf's posture indicated it was aroused and capable of an attack. Another expert disputed the characterisation of the wolf's attitude.\n\nCarnegie was on his autumn cooperative term in his third year of geological engineering at University of Waterloo. He and a colleague were in the Athabasca basin performing airborne surveying work for Ottawa-based Sander Geophysics. Carnegie told colleagues he was going for a walk. According to official statements made to RCMP, he was \"implored\" not to go. His family say that Carnegie was known to be interested in the geology around the lake, and he was given permission.\n\nOn 8 November at 5:30 P.M., Carnegie left, saying to his geophysicist Chris Van Galder that he would return by 7:00 for supper. His bush pilot Todd Svarckopf warned him to not walk in the snow and play hockey in the airport's hangar instead, but Carnegie disregarded the warning. He went for a walk in the snow, but did not return to the surveyor camp. At 7:30, a search was mounted. The camp's co-owner Mark Eikel drove out in a truck with Van Galder and Svarckopf searching for him. Carnegie's tracks were followed to the lake shore. On noticing wolf tracks on the shore, the three searchers went back for a rifle before continuing. Carnegie's body was found a little further on, but there were no wolves in sight at that time. Using a flashlight, the body was viewed from about 10 m (32 ft), many wolf tracks were visible around the body. Later, when the body was being recovered, two sets of eyes were seen glowing in the dark close by. In addition, party searchers heard a wolf pack howling around the camp's vicinity.\n\nRosalie Tsannie-Burseth, the province’s local coroner who had arranged the removal of Carnegie's body, gave a hypothetical reconstruction of what happened. Her reconstruction was based on tracks of people and animals she observed near the site of the attack the day after the event occurred. She speculated that Carnegie had walked from the camp and by the time he was a kilometer away near Lake Wollaston, a wolf began following his tracks. One wolf stalked Carnegie from the forest and another wolf stalked him from the lake. Boot prints in the snow showed that Carnegie quickened his pace, as two more wolves approached him from the sides. The first apparent struggle occurred 2.2 metres (7 ft) from where the chase began. Four more scuffle sites were found leading to where his body was discovered. Tsannie-Burseth believed that Carnegie probably fought hard before finally succumbing.\n\nBefore Carnegie's death, there had been at least one verified case of a fatal wolf attack on a person in North America, namely Canada, where Patricia Wyman died on April 18, 1996. More than 300 occurrences of black bears behaving aggressively toward humans have been documented in the province, including three fatal attacks. The main evidence against a bear attack was that Carnegie's body was surrounded by the tracks of wolves, while no bear tracks were found near his body.\n\nCarnegie's interment was at Thornton Cemetery in Oshawa, Ontario.\n\nThe RCMP determined that Kenton Carnegie's death was not the result of a homicide. The official Government of Saskatchewan investigation was headed by internationally renowned carnivore biologist and behavioral ecologist Dr. Paul Paquet and RCMP forensic anthropologist Dr. Ernest Walker, who oversaw Carnegie's autopsy, which was performed by Dr. N. Brits in Prince Albert, Saskatchewan. Brits stated that Carnegie's injuries were consistent with those expected in a predatory animal attack. Paquet and Walker concluded that the only likely candidates were wolves and black bears, as coyotes, grizzly bears, and pumas were not known to frequent the Points North Landing area. The report, however, was equivocal as to which predator was responsible, noting that most of the evidence, all of which was circumstantial, was unavoidably confounded by search and recovery efforts. Conservation Officers who investigated the accident site two days after the event and several snowfalls, wrote in their report \"Officers investigated the site and found numerous wolf tracks in the area. No other large animal tracks could be found.\" Bears had not been sighted at Points North Camp for over a month, and the death occurred during what some suggest is their annual hibernation cycle.\n\nIt is unusual for wolves, and typical for bears, to drag the carcass of a prey animal in the way Carnegie's body was dragged. Among the photographed injuries present on the body, was a bite mark on the right side of Carnegie’s right calf/shin which some authorities considered consistent with the wolf bite marks researchers commonly observe on ungulate prey carcasses. Paquet and Walker identified the mark as occurring post mortem and indistinguishable from those left by black bears.\n\nA naturalist retained by the Carnegie family reviewed accounts of 80 events in Alaska and Canada where wolves closely approached or attacked people, found 39 cases of aggression by apparently healthy wolves, and 29 cases of fearless behavior by non-aggressive wolves. After examining photographs of Carnegie's body and the area around it, a naturalist concluded that the argument in favour of a bear culprit was weak: many black bears may have been hibernating, an active bear would have concentrated on an ample food supply from the nearby landfill 2 km from the kill site, and none of the camp employees saw bears or bear tracks, either the month before or after the attack occurred. A bruise on Carnegie’s right lower leg (measured 4 × 2.5 cm), with what appeared to be bite mark impressions associated with the bruising was said to be consistent with injuries observed in 13 survivors of wolf attacks in Alaska and Canada. In many of these cases, the initial bites were fleeting and occurred in the hands or legs, and left only torn clothing, scratched skin, or minor puncture wounds. A photo, featuring the injured lower back of a six-year-old Alaskan boy attacked by a wolf near Icy Bay showed bite marks ½-3 cm in length; many of which were similar to those found near the nose, eyes, and right arm of Carnegie’s body.\n\nHowever, as Carnegie was their first human victim, it would have been impossible to extrapolate normal, specific feeding behaviours. A reconstruction of the attack suggested that Carnegie repeatedly broke free and struggled to his feet after being taken down. Bears are adept at pinning prey.\n\nThe Chief Coroner's confidential investigative report was completed in the summer of 2006 and given to the Carnegie family for review. The report determined Carnegie was killed by either wolves or a black bear, and that the poorly conducted initial investigation and uncertainty of circumstantial evidence precluded a definitive conclusion. An Inquest date of February 2007 was then called by the Chief Coroner, but was rescheduled for 29 October 2007.\n\nThe Province of Saskatchewan chose not to present an affirmative case supporting the findings of the Chief Coroner. Accordingly, the lawyer representing the crown did not carry out in depth examinations of witnesses. Further, judicial inquests in Saskatchewan apply a much lower standard for determining cause of death (balance of probabilities or 51%) than do determinations by the Chief Coroner (reasonable doubt or 95%). On 1 November 2007, following three days of testimony and examination of photographs of Carnegie's body and the site of the incident, a six-member jury concluded that wolves were responsible for Carnegie's death.\n\nA scholarship fund at the University of Waterloo was established as a memorial. Dr. L. David Mech, an internationally recognized wolf expert, stated; \"Mr. Carnegie's death is a terrible tragedy but one fatal wolf attack in the recorded history of North America does not warrant widespread alarm\".\n\nAccording to Carnegie's family, the official investigation was too focused on establishing Carnegie’s cause of death, while ignoring wider policy issues. Further criticism concerned an alleged failure of some biologists to notice that an unnatural garbage-scavenging lifestyle meant wolves around the camp had flourished only to the extent they lacked fear of humans, and a proliferation of wolves thus selected was depleting the local deer population. Carnegie's father expressed concern that Saskatchewan's response was inadequate and that there was no real action being taken to tackle the circumstances which he believed had led to the attack.\n\nAfter Carnegie's death, an electric fence was built around Points North Landing's landfill to prevent future predatory animal incidents. Eleven years later, a lone timber wolf attacked a young male twenty-six-year-old worker in Cigar Lake. The worker was on his midnight break when it jumped and mauled him less than one hundred meters from the main camp. A nearby female security guard frightened the wolf away. She administered first aid and called for an air ambulance, which airlifted him six hundred and seventy-five kilometres to a hospital in Saskatoon, where he recovered. After the attack, authorities ordered that wolves in the area be tracked down and shot. In addition, authorities required food disposal systems and inspected the fence around Cigar Lake's landfill, as well as providing more education to the mining staff members.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25012415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25012415", "title": "Echoes of a Summer", "text": "Echoes of a Summer\n\nEchoes of a Summer is a 1976 Canadian/American film directed by Don Taylor, based on the Broadway play \"Isle of Children\" by Robert L. Joseph, who also adapted the screenplay.\n\nThe eleven-year-old Deirdre (Jodie Foster) suffers from an incurable heart condition. For two years, her parents Eugene (Richard Harris) and Ruth (Lois Nettleton) have consulted heart specialists - but without any success. Now they have gone to Mahone Bay, Nova Scotia to ensure that her last days are as pleasant as possible. The nine-year-old neighbour boy Phillip (Brad Savage) is the only one who brings a little happiness into the home, since Deirdre knows exactly what is wrong with her. After she suffers from an acute attack and the end comes faster than everybody had thought, Deirdre and Phillip succeed anyway in celebrating the twelfth birthday of the girl as a day of joy.\n\n"}
{"id": "33682948", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33682948", "title": "Francis Mitchell (British Army officer)", "text": "Francis Mitchell (British Army officer)\n\nMajor-General Francis Neville Mitchell CB CBE DSO (1904–1954) was a British Army officer who commanded 6th Armoured Division.\n\nBorn the eldest son of Admiral Francis Mitchell and a cousin of Patrick Mitchell KCVO, Mitchell graduated from the Royal Military Academy Sandhurst and was commissioned into the 15th/19th The King's Royal Hussars in 1924. \n\nHe served in World War II as an Instructor at the Staff College, Camberley from 1940, as a General Staff Officer with 9th Armoured Division from 1941 and as Commanding Officer of 1st Royal Gloucestershire Hussars from 1942. He was appointed Commander of 26th Armoured Brigade in Italy in 1944 and Assistant Deputy Adjutant-General at Allied Forces Headquarters in 1945. At the end of the War he was appointed CBE.\n\nHe went on to be Commander of 22nd Armoured Brigade in 1947, Brigadier Royal Armoured Corps for the British Army of the Rhine in 1949 and Chief of Staff for I (British) Corps in Germany in 1951. His last appointment was as General Officer Commanding 6th Armoured Division in 1953 before his sudden death in a horse riding accident in Germany in 1954.\n\nIn 1935 he married Ann Christian Livingstone-Learmouth.\n"}
{"id": "14981627", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14981627", "title": "Future map (organizational planning)", "text": "Future map (organizational planning)\n\nThe future map is a method for building scenarios based on the collection of anticipated events.\n\nThe concept is based on the idea that a group of people who integrate the partial visions of its members into a common, shared, discussed, large enough, collection of anticipated events it can eventually reveal its own \"shared future\".\n\nBecause the FutureMap methodology is dynamic and implemented on a wiki-platform the Future projected by the group is constantly under revision. By process, the community learns how to adapt to future changes and increases its ability to face \"unexpected events\", it improves what the author calls its future-readiness.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "97098", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=97098", "title": "Gabrielle d'Estrées", "text": "Gabrielle d'Estrées\n\nGabrielle d'Estrées, Duchess of Beaufort and Verneuil, Marchioness of Monceaux (; 1573 – 10 April 1599) was a mistress, confidante and adviser of Henry IV of France. She persuaded Henry to renounce Protestantism in favour of Catholicism in 1593. Later she urged French Catholics to accept the Edict of Nantes, which granted certain rights to the Protestants. It was legally impossible for the king to marry her, because he was already married to Margaret of Valois, but he acknowledged Gabrielle as the mother of three of his children, and as \"the subject most worthy of our friendship\".\n\nShe was born at either the Château de la Bourdaisière in Montlouis-sur-Loire, in Touraine, or at the château de Cœuvres, in Picardy.\n\nIn November 1590, Henry IV fell in love with Gabrielle d'Estrées. She became one of his many mistresses in the middle of his bitter struggle with the Catholic League. Although he was married to Margaret of Valois, Henry and Gabrielle were openly affectionate with each other in public. Fiercely loyal, Gabrielle accompanied Henry during his campaigns. Even when heavily pregnant, she insisted on living inside his tent near the battlefield, making sure his clothing was clean and that he ate well after a battle, handling the day to day correspondence while he fought. As she was an intelligent and practical woman, Henry confided his secrets to her and followed her advice. When the two were apart, Henry frequently wrote her letters while on his sojourn trips at war camps.\nBorn a Catholic, Gabrielle knew that the best way to conclude the religious wars was for Henry himself to become a Catholic. Recognizing the wisdom in her argument, on 25 July 1593 Henry declared that \"Paris is well worth a Mass\" and permanently renounced Protestantism. This enabled him to be crowned King of France on 27 February 1594. Henry also arranged for Gabrielle's marriage to Liancourt to be annulled the same year. \n\nOn 7 June 1594, their first child was born, a son, César de Bourbon, future Duke of Vendôme. On 4 January 1595, Henry IV officially recognized and legitimized his son in a text validated by the \"Parlement de Paris\". In that text, he also recognized Gabrielle d'Estrées as the mother of his son and as \"the subject the most worthy of our friendship\"; in other words, Henry IV had the \"Parlement de Paris\" officially ratify Gabrielle's position as his mistress. In 1596, he made her \"marquise de Monceaux\" and, the following year, \"duchesse de Beaufort\".\n\nHenry IV also recognized and legitimized two more children he had with Gabrielle: Catherine-Henriette de Bourbon, a daughter born in 1596, and Alexandre de Bourbon, a son born in 1598. The relationship between Henry and Gabrielle did not sit well with some members of the French aristocracy, and malicious pamphlets circulated that blamed the new duchess for many national misfortunes. One of the most vicious nicknames ascribed to Gabrielle was \"la duchesse d'Ordure\" (\"the Duchess of Filth\").\n\nGabrielle became Henry's most important diplomat, using her female friends amongst the various Catholic League families to bring about peace. In March 1596, Henry gave both Gabrielle and his sister Catherine a set of gold keys which bestowed upon them seats on his council. This gift pleased Gabrielle so much that she took to wearing the little keys on a chain around her neck.\n\nIn 1598, Henry issued the Edict of Nantes, which gave the Huguenots certain rights while deferring to Catholics. Joining forces, the Huguenot Catherine and Catholic Gabrielle went to work overriding the objections of powerful Catholics and Huguenots and forcing compliance with the edict. Henry was so impressed with her efforts that he wrote \"My mistress has become an orator of unequaled brilliance, so fiercely does she argue the cause of the new Edict.\"\n\nAfter applying to Pope Clement VIII for an annulment of his marriage and authority to remarry, in March 1599 Henry gave his mistress his coronation ring. Gabrielle, so sure that the wedding would take place, stated, \"Only God or the king's death could put an end to my good luck\". A few days later, on 9 April, she suffered an attack of eclampsia and gave birth to a stillborn son. King Henry was at the Château de Fontainebleau when news arrived of her illness. The next day, 10 April 1599, while Henry was on his way to her, she died in Paris.\n\nThe King was grief-stricken, especially given the widely held rumor that Gabrielle had been poisoned. He wore black in mourning, something no previous French monarch had done. He gave her the funeral of a queen; her coffin was transported amidst a procession of princes, princesses, and nobles to the Saint-Germain-l'Auxerrois church in Paris, for a requiem mass. Remembered in French history and song as \"La Belle Gabrielle\", she was interred at the Notre-Dame-La-Royale de Maubuisson Abbey in Saint-Ouen-l'Aumône (Val-d'Oise, Île-de-France).\n\nA publication after her death called the \"Mémoires secrets de Gabrielle d'Estrée\" (“The Secret Memoirs of Gabrielle d’Estrée”) is believed to have been written by one of her friends.\n\nHer four children by Henry were:\n\nShe is the presumed subject of the painting \"Gabrielle d'Estrées et une de ses sœurs\" by an unknown artist (c. 1594). Gabrielle sits up nude in a bath, holding (presumably) Henry's coronation ring, whilst her sister sits nude beside her and pinches her right nipple. Henry gave Gabrielle the ring as a token of his love shortly before she died. The painting is in the Louvre Museum in Paris.\n\nJ. M. W. Turner painted a watercolour of \"The Palace of the Fair Gabrielle\" at Bougival (private collection, United States).\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44210651", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44210651", "title": "Gardening Leave (charity)", "text": "Gardening Leave (charity)\n\nGardening Leave is a British registered horticultural therapy charity that focuses on the mental health of British Armed Forces veterans. It supports veterans with a wide range of mental health conditions including depression, anxiety and posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD).\n\nThrough horticultural therapy sessions, the charity aims to maximise a veteran’s physical, psychological and social strength, and enhance general health and well-being.\n\nGardening Leave was founded in March 2007 and opened its headquarters and first project at Auchincruive, Scotland. On 3 September 2007, Lance Sergeant (then Lance Corporal) Johnson Beharry VC, opened the Poppy Collection at the Ayr site.\n\nThe organisation now also runs projects at Erskine Hospital (near Glasgow), Royal Hospital Chelsea (London) and an outreach project in East Acton (London). It has announced plans to open a new project in Dundee in 2015.\n\n\"Horticultural therapy is a professionally conducted client-centred treatment modality that utilises horticultural activities to meet specific therapeutic or rehabilitative goals of its participants. The focus is to maximise social, cognitive, physical and/or psychological functioning and/or to enhance general health and wellbeing.\"\n\nIn 2014 Gardening Leave launched an Honesty campaign, using the honesty plant seed head as its emblem, to raise awareness of stigma surrounding veterans' mental health.\n\nAs of October 2014, the chairman of Gardening Leave is Luke Borwick and the chief executive officer is Heather Budge-Reid.\n\n"}
{"id": "14516619", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14516619", "title": "Hallvard Aamlid", "text": "Hallvard Aamlid\n\nHallvard Aamlid (born 25 January 1973) is a Norwegian politician for the Liberal Party.\n\nHe served as a deputy representative to the Norwegian Parliament from Oslo during the term 1997–2001.\n\nOutside politics he works for the publishing house Universitetsforlaget.\n"}
{"id": "20934175", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20934175", "title": "Harry Brown (footballer, born 1897)", "text": "Harry Brown (footballer, born 1897)\n\nHarold Archer \"Harry\" Brown (1897–1958) was an English footballer who played as a centre forward for various clubs in the 1920s, including Sunderland and Queens Park Rangers.\n"}
{"id": "47200518", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47200518", "title": "Holon (sculpture)", "text": "Holon (sculpture)\n\nHolon, also known as Hōlon, is an outdoor stone sculpture by Donald Wilson, located in the South Park Blocks in Portland, Oregon, United States. It was originally commissioned in 1978–1979 and re-carved in 2003–2004. It is part of the City of Portland and Multnomah County Public Art Collection courtesy of the Regional Arts & Culture Council, which administers the work.\n\nDonald Wilson's \"Holon\" was originally commissioned in 1978–1979 and dedicated to the late Dr. Gordon Hearn, the first dean of Portland State University's School of Social Work. Its name comes from the Greek \"holos\", which means \"whole, entire, complete in all its parts – something that has integrity and identity at the same time as it is a part of a larger system\". The sculpture was carved from white Indiana Limestone. It measured approximately x x and rested on a brick base that measured around x x . When the Smithsonian Institution surveyed the sculpture for its \"Save Outdoor Sculpture!\" program in April 1993, the organization categorized the piece as abstract, its condition as \"treatment needed\", and noted that Wilson had removed graffiti previously.\n\nThe sculpture was re-carved from granite in 2003–2004 and installed in Portland's South Park Blocks, between Southwest Harrison and Southwest Hall streets in front of the Branford Price Millar Library, in 2004. The Regional Arts & Culture Council, which administers the work, describes it as reflective of the university's \"holistic\" design. The sculpture measures x x . Its base includes a plaque that reads, \"\" The work is part of the City of Portland and Multnomah County Public Art Collection courtesy of the Regional Arts & Culture Council.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29653060", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29653060", "title": "Horse Isle (video game)", "text": "Horse Isle (video game)\n\nHorse Isle is a browser-based MMORPG first released in 2007. The game is developed and published independently by American duo Joe and Miranda Durbin. In May 2010, a second version of the game was released with completely different gameplay and graphics: Horse Isle: Legend of the Esrohs.\n\n\"Horse Isle\" is set in a fictional world that centers on horses. The focus is on individual player's capture and care of horses, mini games, arena competitions and the dozens of horse breeds the game offers. The game is geared to include gamers of all ages so it has parental filters in place. In 2010, the game had a player base of around 10,000. One of the biggest features of the game is that it is completely browser based, but is a fully graphical online RPG. The artwork in Horse Isle has a 2D style with hand drawn images.\n\nThe \"Horse Isle\" series uses educational elements involved in progressing through the games. These focus around reading comprehension, spelling, mathematics, science, and problem solving.\n\nLife Cycle\n\n\"Horse Isle\" also introduced a new version of Legend of the Esrohs called Life Cycle in 2012. The game has the same virtual world but the focus is now on breeding. In Life Cycle your horses can age, breed and die. This is the only difference between the two servers.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1962927", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1962927", "title": "Imperial ban", "text": "Imperial ban\n\nThe imperial ban () was a form of outlawry in the Holy Roman Empire. At different times, it could be declared by the Holy Roman Emperor, by the Imperial Diet, or by courts like the League of the Holy Court (\"Vehmgericht\") or the \"Reichskammergericht\".\n\nPeople under imperial ban, known as \"Geächtete\" (from about the 17th century, colloquially also as \"Vogelfreierei\", lit. \"free as a bird\"), lost all their rights and possessions. They were legally considered dead, and anyone was allowed to rob, injure or kill them without legal consequences. The imperial ban automatically followed the excommunication of a person, as well as extending to anyone offering help to a person under the imperial ban.\n\nThose banned could reverse the ban by submitting to the legal authority. The \"Aberacht\", a stronger version of the imperial ban, could not be reversed.\n\nThe imperial ban was sometimes imposed on whole Imperial Estates. In that case, other estates could attack and seek to conquer them. The effect of the ban on a city or other Estate was that it lost its Imperial immediacy and in the future would have a second overlord in addition to the emperor.\n\nFamous people placed under the imperial ban included:\n\n\nThe imperial ban imposed by the Emperor Rudolf II on the city of Donauwörth after an anti-Catholic riot was one of the incidents leading to the Thirty Years' War.\n\n"}
{"id": "48253596", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48253596", "title": "John Blithe (MP)", "text": "John Blithe (MP)\n\nJohn Blithe (died 1410) of Wells, Somerset, was an English politician.\n\nHe married Christine Plomer. After Blithe's death, she married another Wells MP, Richard Setter.\n\nHe was a Member (MP) of the Parliament of England for Wells in 1388, 1393 and 1399.\n"}
{"id": "17188", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17188", "title": "KL-ONE", "text": "KL-ONE\n\nKL-ONE (pronounced \"kay ell won\") is a well known knowledge representation system in the tradition of semantic networks and frames; that is, it is a frame language. The system is an attempt to overcome semantic indistinctness in semantic network representations and to explicitly represent conceptual information as a structured inheritance network.\n\nThere is a whole family of KL-ONE-like systems. One of the innovations that KL-ONE initiated was the use of a deductive classifier, an automated reasoning engine that can validate a frame ontology and deduce new information about the ontology based on the initial information provided by a domain expert. \n\nFrames in KL-ONE are called concepts. These form hierarchies using subsume-relations; in the KL-ONE terminology a super class is said to subsume its subclasses. \nMultiple inheritance is allowed. Actually a concept is said to be well-formed only if it inherits from more than one other concept. All concepts, except the top concept (usually THING), must have at least one super class. \n\nIn KL-ONE descriptions are separated into two basic classes of concepts: primitive and defined. Primitives are domain concepts that are not fully defined. This means that given all the properties of a concept, this is not sufficient to classify it. They may also be viewed as incomplete definitions. Using the same view, defined concepts are complete definitions. Given the properties of a concept, these are necessary and sufficient conditions to classify the concept.\n\nThe slot-concept is called roles and the values of the roles are role-fillers. There are several different types of roles to be used in different situations. The most common and important role type is the generic RoleSet that captures the fact that the role may be filled with more than one filler.\n\n"}
{"id": "8731629", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8731629", "title": "Life Sciences Greenhouse of Central Pennsylvania", "text": "Life Sciences Greenhouse of Central Pennsylvania\n\nLife Sciences Greenhouse of Central Pennsylvania (LSGPA) is a biotechnology initiative and non-profit organization based in Harrisburg, Pennsylvania specializing in the advancement of life sciences through technology to improve the healthcare and enhanced economic opportunity of Pennsylvanians. The initiative began in 2001, funded with money from the state's settlement with the tobacco industry. Other life sciences greenhouses in Philadelphia and Pittsburgh also received seed money from the settlement. The LSGPA partners with a range of institutions, including local research universities, colleges, medical centers, economic development agencies and companies both small and large, to identify needs and opportunities. The organization then works to help transfer technologies, to develop new companies, to provide support for existing companies (particularly those seeking to expand or relocate), and to ensure that the infrastructure necessary to support a thriving life sciences industry keeps pace with development.\n\nCentral Pennsylvania has three large research universities which contribute to the initiative. Collectively, these three institutions attract more than $600 million in sponsored research funding annually. They are:\n\n"}
{"id": "8792882", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8792882", "title": "List of Holocaust films", "text": "List of Holocaust films\n\nThis is an index of films that deal with the Holocaust in Europe. Films dealing with the subject of the Holocaust include both documentary and narrative films. These films were produced from the early 1940s before the extent of the Holocaust was widely known and have continued to be made since then. \n\nThe films span multiple genres, with documentary films including footage filmed both by the Germans for their propaganda purposes and by the Allies, compilations, survivor testimonies and docudramas, and narrative films including war films, action films, love stories, psychological dramas and even comedies. \n\n"}
{"id": "41620788", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41620788", "title": "List of cemeteries in Massachusetts", "text": "List of cemeteries in Massachusetts\n\nThis is a list of cemeteries in Massachusetts.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21627726", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21627726", "title": "List of victims and survivors of Auschwitz", "text": "List of victims and survivors of Auschwitz\n\nThis is the fragmentary list of all of the victims and survivors of Auschwitz concentration camp. This list represents only a sample portion of the 1.1 million victims and some survivors of the Auschwitz death camp and is not intended to be viewed as a representative count by any means.\n\nThe following victims who were male are signified by the background. The female victims are marked by the background.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55914007", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55914007", "title": "Marie Rose Cavelan", "text": "Marie Rose Cavelan\n\nMarie Rose Cavelan (1752-unknown) was a French-Afro-Grenadian or possibly French-Amerindian-African-Grenadian planter and revolutionary. A free woman of color, she married Julien Fédon, a French Catholic, like herself of mixed ancestry. Together, she and her husband bought a plantation and engaged as planters and slave owners in the colonial period. Grenada changed hands between the French and British several times during the couple's life, causing persecution for the couple when the British were in authority. Cavelan was arrested in 1787 and forced to provide evidence of her free status, though she was well known to the British, having conducted numerous business transactions with British business men. Though large landowners, Cavelan and her husband were increasingly denied the right to engage in public affairs. In the 1790s they began manumitting their slaves and in 1795 staged a revolt against British rule. Branded traitors, they led a revolt which lasted nearly two years, but were never captured by the British. Cavelan's whereabouts after the rebellion ended are unknown.\n\nMarie Rose Cavelan was born around 1752 in the French colony, Le Grenade to Marianne Lemico and Michel Cavelan. Her father had immigrated from Martinique and moved to Le Grenade around 1750. Her mother was originally from the Sainte Rose Parish of Le Grenade. Documents of her heritage are conflicting, as some refer to her as a \"mulatresse libre\", free mulatto woman and others show her to be \"femme mestive\", a woman of mixed Amerindian and mulatta descent. \n\nAt the end of the Seven Years' War in 1763, the French ceded La Grenade to the British. The British regime allowed free persons of colour to own land and weapons, marry, and exercise free movement, all of which had been restricted under the French governors. During this volatile time, three of the Cavelan sisters, Elizabeth, Marguerite and Marie Rose, would marry brothers of the Fédon family. In 1774, Cavelan married Julien Fédon in an English ceremony, as the British forbade them a Catholic ceremony. In 1779, the French recaptured Grenada, and the following year, the couple remarried under French authorities on 31 January 1780 in a Catholic ceremony. Later, they had a daughter born in December of that year. \n\nIn 1784, the British retook the island and an exodus of French planters to Trinidad ensued. Repressive laws passed by the British towards French Catholics, between 1784 and 1795, increasingly closed free blacks from participating in the public affairs of the colony. Originally, the laws were aimed at curtailing French Catholic autonomy, but as the place the French planters had occupied was taken over by free people of colour, the laws began being applied to them as well. Cavelan and Fédon initially lived in Grand Pauvre (now Saint Mark Parish), where they ran a small plantation, known as \"Lancer\". In February 1787, Cavelan was arrested under a law passed the previous year, which required her to show evidence of her status as a \"free coloured\" to the authorities in the capital, St. George's. She was well known to the authorities, as the owner of the plantation, \"Lancer\", who had transacted business in her own name, and as the wife of Fédon. When the law was passed, she saw no reason to travel the fourteen miles from her home to the capital to register her free status, as the legal intent was ostensibly to curtail vagabonds. \n\nThe law supposedly applied to all free coloureds but was typically enforced only upon women, as a means of discouraging miscegenation and reinforcing white superiority. If Cavelon was unable to prove her free status within six weeks, the authorities were empowered to sell her into slavery. Fédon used his network, contacting Joseph Verdet, who had served as best man at their wedding and François Philip, who was a wealthy white planter, to vouch for her status. John Hay, the acting justice of the peace, accepted their oaths and released Cavelan after several weeks of incarceration, issuing her a certificate of freedom.\n\nThe French Revolution broke out in 1789, spawning revolts across the wider French Caribbean. In 1790, Fédon, along with thirty-five other Frenchmen, predominantly free coloured, signed a \"Public Declaration of Loyalty\", which professed that though French, their loyalty lay with Britain. That same year, Cavelan and Fédon relocated to Saint John Parish. Selling \"Lancer\", which contained 38.5 acres of land and ten slaves for three thousand one hundred and fifty pounds (₤3,150). They simultaneously bought the \"Belvidere Estate\", a cacao and coffee plantation from James Campbell, \"a Senior Member of the Council and former Acting Governor\" of the colony. For the price of fifteen thousand pounds (₤15,000), the purchase included 450 acres of land and the buildings, 16 cows, 5 horses, and 80 slaves. Beginning in 1790, the couple began to manumit the slaves that they owned, releasing Guillaume La Grange; Louis; and Mary Jeanne from Cabresse Island along with her children, Francois Louis, Edward and Rose in 1791. The acquisition of such a large estate, evidences that the couple had moved from nominally successful to part of the emerging free coloured elite.\n\nThe appointment of the ultra-Protestant planter, Ninian Home, as Lieutenant Governor in 1793, ensured that none of the colonists of French descent would be allowed to participate in the Legislative Assembly. The following year, the French National Convention abolished slavery and extended citizenship to all former slaves in all of the French colonies. The Convention sent out emissaries to make contact with those colonies, which had long-standing ties to France, to regain loyalties in the eastern Caribbean. By the time the agents reached Grenada, a revolt was already well-organized, with Fédon as the leader of the insurgents, which included free coloureds, slaves and maroons. The French agents offered to provide military assistance and guidance, which included the use of Jacobin terror tactics.\n\nFédon's rebellion started at the beginning of March 1795. Taking the British by surprise, the rebels quickly captured Governor Home on 2 March and within two days had forty-three prisoners secured at \"Belvidere\". Cavelan was as deeply invested as her husband in the revolt, as attested by eyewitness testimonies, which place both she and her daughters at the Battle of Mt. Qua-Qua. Fédon sent a demand for surrender to the British, who rejected the demands, instead promising amnesty to those who gave up the fight. Fédon was named in the September Act of Attainder which declared the insurgents traitors. The British officially extinguished the revolution on 19 June 1796 and thereafter the Fédon estates were confiscated. Rumors surfaced that Fédon had escaped to Cuba, but record of Cavelan after 8 April 1795 has not been found. \n\n"}
{"id": "55707768", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55707768", "title": "Mary Channing", "text": "Mary Channing\n\nMary Channing was a Dorset women convicted of poisoning her husband and burnt at the stake.\n\nMary Brooks was born in early May 1687 to Richard and Elizabeth Brooks of Dorchester. The lack of proper parental control is said to have lowered her character. She soon established a friendship with a young neighbour to whom she often presented lavish gifts and together they spent their evenings outside. After receiving frequent complaints from neighbours, Brook's parents decided that she should be married; they thought a husband would have more control over her than they commanded. So she married, albeit reluctantly, a grocer named Thomas Charring on 15 January 1704. Even after being married, she continued meeting her lover. Channing is said to have poisoned her husband's milk. \n\nBefore dying on 21 April, Thomas Channing wrote his will, leaving everything to his father except a shilling for Mary. Her father-in-law grew suspicious and upon post-mortem of Channing's body, he was found to have been poisoned. Mary fled Dorchester and was on the run until she found a distant relative she could stay with.\n\nWhen apprehended, Channing denied having killed her husband and asked the examining committee headed by Dorchester mayor to let her touch her deceased husband's body. If it did not bleed, she should be deemed innocent. Her trial began on 28 July 1705 at Dorchester Assizes and she conducted her own defence. Channing was declared guilty but the sentence was suspended when she was found to be pregnant. In prison she gave birth to a son on 19 December.\n\nChanning was burnt at Maumbury Rings on 21 March 1706. Her execution was witnessed by about 10,000 people.\n\nThomas Hardy was somewhat \"fascinated\" by and \"obsessed\" of Channing's execution. Critic David Musselwhite points out that Nance Mockridge, Mother Cuxsom and Mrs. Goodenogh, three character's in Hardy's \"The Mayor of Casterbridge\", were an \"avatar or surrogate of Channing. The Ring at Casterbridge mentioned in the novel was actually in Maumbury. In his article published in \"The Times\" (1908), Hardy noted the lack of evidences in proving that Channing poisoned her husband. Two of Hardy's poems \"The Mock Wife\" and \"The Bridge-Night Fire\" make references to her. David James' play \"White Mercury, Brown Rice\" (1995) enacted the trial of Channing. \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50976111", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50976111", "title": "Mourad Abdelouahab", "text": "Mourad Abdelouahab\n\nMourad Abdelouahab (died August 2008) was an Algerian football manager.\n\nAbdelouahab managed the Algerian national team, as well as club side USM Alger.\n"}
{"id": "1581952", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1581952", "title": "Neopets: The Darkest Faerie", "text": "Neopets: The Darkest Faerie\n\nNeopets: The Darkest Faerie is an action-adventure game in the Neopets franchise, developed by Idol Minds and published by Sony Computer Entertainment for the PlayStation 2 in 2005.\n\n\"Neopets: The Darkest Faerie\" is set in \"Neopia\", the land of the Neopets universe, which is inhabited by anthropomorphic versions of various Neopets species. The adventure is based on a story written by Neopets founder Adam Powell.\n\nLong ago, a dark faerie was imprisoned at the bottom of the Maraquan sea as punishment for attempting to take over the realm, her name having been erased from history and the faerie remembered only as 'the Darkest Faerie'. However, after a thousand years, the spell imprisoning the Darkest Faerie has become weak and breaks, and the faerie escapes, returning to the surface intent on taking over the realm of Neopia and exacting revenge upon the Faerie queen Fyora who imprisoned her.\n\nThe game begins with Tormund Ellis (nicknamed \"Tor\"), a young Lupe farm boy who has long dreamed of being a knight in the city of Meridell. After being accepted into the ranks and training under the discipline of the castle's master-at-arms, Torak, Tormund is knighted after saving the village of Cogham from The Ixi Raiders. But when answering a plea to defend the nearby forest glade of Illusen, the earth faerie, from an invading tribe of Werelupes, the mission fails, and Tormund returns to Meridell to discover both it and its inhabitants under a cloud of dark magic and the control of the Darkest Faerie. Though unaffected himself, he is driven out of the castle and city by the faerie's minions.\n\nThe neighboring kingdom of Brightvale notices the dark clouds, and sends a diplomatic envoy to the city of Faerieland, home to the Faerie queen Fyora, to investigate. A young Acara, Roberta, the niece of Brightvale King Hagan, is among the diplomats. The Darkest Faerie attacks Faerieland that night, capturing and binding the Faerie queen and covering the castle in a dark aura. Roberta is able to escape the castle but is pursued and falls to the countryside of Neopia below.\n\nRoberta and Tormund meet each other and then proceed to warn the king of Brightvale about the Faerie. It is revealed that both were given amulets to protect against the Darkest Faerie's power, and upon research discover that the Darkest Faerie was once sealed away by the power of Fyora's magical rod, now lying deep underneath the city of Meridell. After freeing the neighboring regions from control of dark magic, they are able to infiltrate the castle of Meridell and find a way deep underground, recovering Fyora's ancient rod. With its power they are able to drive the darkness out of the city, and then return to Faerieland to stop the Darkest Faerie. It is a trap, however, as the Darkest Faerie seizes the rod and a fight between the two Faeries ensues. Fyora is able to teleport Tormund and Roberta to safety before being captured and imprisoned again.\n\nA PlayStation version of the game was being developed by The Code Monkeys and was cancelled for unknown reasons. It is believed that the protagonists were largely the same and a new antagonist to the series would have been present, who was named Master Nola, and spanned two discs, one for each protagonist.\n\nIn the game, only Roberta can use magic attacks, but each of them has the power to use specials, or motes. When used in a powerup attack, they unveil special effects ranging from poisoning the enemies to creating a beam of light. Magic power does become weaker as more magic is used. However, Purple Juppies, and other fruits/potions, replenish your magic gauge when they're eaten/used.\n\nIn Neopia, there are many motes that assist Tor and Roberta in their fight to bring light to the shadows. These motes can be equipped to Tor and Roberta's weapons, shields, and armor. The motes throughout Neopia include; Light, Sun, Fog, Wind, Fire, Lava, Nova, Supernova, Dark, Shadow, Leaf, Rock, Bubble, and Water.\n\nPlayers can feed a petpet so that he can follow them. When fed, it will follow the character for a certain time depending on food type that it was fed and its inherent species. It will give a range of special effects: seeing the invisible/health restore/etc. After feeding the petpet the same kind of food for too long, it will not accept it.\n\nThe game received \"mixed\" reviews according to the review aggregator website Metacritic.\n\n"}
{"id": "26381314", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26381314", "title": "Norman Jaffe", "text": "Norman Jaffe\n\nNorman Jaffe (April 3, 1932 – August 19, 1993) was an American architect widely noted for his contemporary residential architecture, and his \"strikingly sculptural beach houses\" on Eastern Long Island, in southeastern New York. He is credited with pioneering the \"design of rustic Modernist houses in the Hamptons\", and with being an innovator in using natural materials and passive solar forms of design, and urban design.\n\nNorman Jaffe was born in 1932 in Chicago to poor immigrant parents from Poland and Latvia. During the period of the depression, he was sent to live with relatives in Seattle where he attended high school. After finishing school, he joined the military in 1954, serving with the United States Army Corps of Engineers in Japan during the Korean War.\n\nIn 1956, Jaffe finished his military service and returned to the United States. He began studying architecture at the University of Illinois at Urbana–Champaign, later transferring to the University of California, Berkeley where he received his Bachelor's degree in 1958. Jaffe went on to complete study at Art Students League of New York and Art Institute of Chicago. While at Berkeley, Jaffe studied under noted residential architects William Wurster and Joseph Esherick who co-founded the College of Environmental Design at the University of California, Berkeley. After receiving his degree, Jaffe began working for Esherick and in 1961, he left his wife and son and moved to New York to work for Skidmore, Owings & Merrill, one of the largest architectural firms in the world, and later, for Philip Johnson.\n\nIn 1965, Jaffe's estranged wife, Barbara Cochran, was living in Glen Ellyn, Illinois with their 7-year-old son Miles and her parents when she was killed in a motor vehicle accident. Miles moved to New York to live with his father.\n\nJaffe had begun visiting Long Island in the 1960s, and in 1973 he moved to Bridgehampton where he opened an architectural practice. He became the most prolific architect in the Hamptons at that time, designing more than 50 local houses, from small summer homes to large estates. His work in the Hamptons included a golf club, synagogue and restaurant. The New York Chapter of the American Institute of Architects gave Jaffe an award in 1977 for a beach house he designed on Long Island. Jaffe and Emery Roth & Sons were the architects of the Guardian Life Building, built in the Financial District in 1983.\n\nIn 1985, Jaffe met Sarah Stahl at a Hampton Jitney bus stop. They were married in 1986 and had two sons.\n\nIn 1987, Jaffe donated his services to the Jewish Center of the Hamptons and designed their new synagogue. The Gates of the Grove Synagogue has been described as Jaffe's \"masterpiece...(with) a remarkable blend of material and spiritual substance\", and \"one of the finest examples of modern synagogue design in America\". Jaffe's design won awards for contemporary religious design. Paul Goldberger, a Pulitzer Prize-winning architecture writer from \"The New Yorker\", later described the Gates of the Grove as Jaffe's \"greatest work\" and a \"truly sacred space...\", and architecture historian Alastair Gordon said Jaffe's design for the Gates of the Grove \"was the jewel in the crown of his turbulent career\".\n\nJaffe was inducted as a fellow of the American Institute of Architects in 1991; the Smithsonian Institution honored the occasion by exhibiting his work. It was reported he was \"commanding design fees of as much as half a million dollars.\"\n\nOne of Jaffe's final designs was the office building at 565 Fifth Avenue, Manhattan. It was finished in 1993. Architecture critic Paul Goldberger from \"The New Yorker\", described the building as \"quite remarkable...a stunning modernist object (which) respects the street, and in so doing, it enriches the city.\"\n\nJaffe assisted a number of charities, including medical relief programs in East Africa and local charities on Long Island. He also donated his professional services to charities and completed a design for a children's hospital in Croatia.\n\nEarly in the morning of August 19, 1993, Jaffe disappeared while swimming off a beach in Bridgehampton, New York, where he was known to often swim alone. His clothes and other personal items were found unattended on the beach. He had only learned to swim in his 50s, and his friends and family were reported as saying he was an overconfident but poor swimmer. A month later, fishermen found a human pelvic bone on the beach near where Jaffe disappeared. The Suffolk County, New York, Medical examiner used medical records and x-rays to confirm the remains belonged to Jaffe. His death was presumed to be an accidental drowning. On September 24, 1993, he was buried at Shaare Pardes Accabonac Grove Cemetery. Norman Jaffe was survived by his wife, Sarah Jaffe Turnbull, and three sons.\n\nDuring his 35-year career as an architect, Norman Jaffe built more than 600 projects and received numerous architecture awards. That comes out to one project every three weeks. His work was displayed in museums exhibitions around the United States and overseas, including at the Museum of Modern Art in New York. Between 1967 and his death in 1993 he designed more than 50 houses in the Hamptons.\n\nFrom July 24 to September 18, 2005, the Parrish Art Museum in Southampton, New York, presented \"Romantic Modernist: The Life and Work of Norman Jaffe, Architect\", the first major exhibition examining Jaffe's life and work. The curator of the exhibition was architectural historian Alastair Gordon, who is also the author of the book, \"Romantic Modernist: The Life and Work of Norman Jaffe Architect 1932-1993\". The exhibition included architectural sketches and models, plans, photographs, furniture and a short documentary film featuring Paul Goldberger, architecture critic from \"The New Yorker\", and archive footage of Jaffe himself.\n\nOn December 18, 2008, the Avery Architectural and Fine Arts Library at Columbia University in New York announced it had acquired Jaffe's architectural archives. The collection includes architectural drawings, presentations and photographs from Jaffe's professional practice and covers more than 80 projects from the 1960s to the 1990s.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2343153", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2343153", "title": "Osmunda claytoniana", "text": "Osmunda claytoniana\n\nOsmunda claytoniana, the interrupted fern, is a fern native to Eastern Asia and eastern North America, in the Eastern United States and Eastern Canada.\n\nThe specific epithet is named after the English-born Virginian botanist John Clayton. \"Interrupted\" describes the gap in middle of the blade left by the fertile portions after they wither and eventually fall off.\n\nThe plant is known from fossils to have grown in Europe, showing a previous circumboreal distribution. Fragmentary foliage resembling \"Osmunda claytoniana\" has been found in the fossil record as far back as the Triassic, and is known as †\"Osmunda claytoniites\". \"O. claytoniana\" is a paramount example of evolutionary stasis. Paleontological evidence indicates it has remained unchanged, even at the level of fossilized nuclei and chromosomes, for at least 180 million years.\n\nIn eastern North America it occurs in: the Great Lakes region; eastern Canada – in southern Manitoba, Ontario, Quebec (north to tree line); and east to Newfoundland; eastern United States – upper New England south through the Appalachian Mountains and Atlantic seaboard, into the Southeastern United States in Georgia and Alabama; and west across the Southern United States to Mississippi River, and back up the Mississippi embayment through the Midwestern United States to the Great Lakes.\n\nIn eastern Asia, the fern is found in the subtropical and temperate Asia in: the Eastern Himalaya, South Central China and Eastern China, Taiwan, the Korean Peninsula, the Ryukyu Islands, and Japan.\n\n\"Osmunda claytoniana\" is found in humid zones, mostly in forests, but also in more open habitats and biomes, although rarely in bogs. The interrupted fern is often found alongside ostrich, cinnamon and sensitive ferns.\n\n\"Osmunda claytoniana\" fronds are bipinnate, tall and broad, the blade formed of alternate segments forming an arching blade tightening to a pointed end. The lower end is also slightly thinner than the rest of the frond because the first segments are shorter. Three to seven short, cinnamon-colored fertile segments are inserted in the middle of the length, giving the plant its name.\n\nIn their absence, the plant in all its stages appears similar to \"Osmundastrum cinnamomeum\" (cinnamon fern). The base of the segments distinguishes the two species: where \"O. cinnamomeum\" has typical felt-like hairs, the few hairs present on \"O. claytoniana\" are extremely short, usually requiring a magnifying glass to see well.\n\nLike other species in the family Osmundaceae, it grows a very large rhizome, with persistent stipe bases from previous years. It forms small, dense colonies, spreading locally through its rhizome, and often forming fairy rings.\n\n\"Osmunda × ruggii\", is a hybrid between \"O. claytoniana\" and \"O. spectabilis\" (American royal fern). The hybrid is considered important because it suggests a closer genetic relationship between \"O. claytoniana\" and \"O. spectabilis\" than between \"O. claytoniana\" and \"O. cinnamomeum\" (a fact which has led to moving \"O. cinnamomeum\" out of \"Osmunda\" and into its own genus \"Osmundastrum\"). \"Osmunda\" × \"ruggii\" is sterile and is known from only about two natural populations, despite the many areas in which both \"O. claytoniana\" and \"O. spectabilis\" are found.\n\nThe Iroquois used the plant as treatment for blood disorders and venereal diseases.\n\nUnlike those of the ostrich fern, the interrupted fern's fiddleheads are not readily edible, due to their bitter taste and a tendency to cause diarrhea. The base of the stipe and very young buds are edible. Overuse may kill the crown.\n\n\"Osmunda claytoniana\" is cultivated as an ornamental plant for use in traditional, native plant, and wildlife gardens; for woodlands and natural landscaping; and for habitat restoration projects. Their spreading colonizing habit can be used for some slope stabilization and erosion control measures.\n\n"}
{"id": "25836680", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25836680", "title": "Pokémon Ranger: Guardian Signs", "text": "Pokémon Ranger: Guardian Signs\n\n\"Pokémon Ranger: Guardian Signs\" is an action role-playing game in which gameplay revolves around capturing Pokémon with the Capture Styler by drawing circles around them. If the Pokémon breaks through the drawn circles by using attacks on them, then the styler's health goes down, and runs out of energy. When energy reaches 0, the styler breaks and the game resumes from the last save point. However, if, for example, the Pokémon walks through the styler's line without using an attack, the styler's line will break, but the styler does not take damage. Capturing Pokémon and completing missions increases XP, which can lead to styler upgrades, such as power upgrade and energy upgrade. After a certain point, the styler can be charged in order to be more effective. One of the new features lets you call out your Pokémon for support and to help in captures. The player can use \"Guardian Signs\" (also referred to in the game as \"Ranger Signs\" or \"Emblems\" by drawing certain symbols, to summon Legendary Pokémon like Entei, Raikou, and Suicune and use them outside of battle. Other features include four player cooperative play with unique missions. The game also includes Wi-Fi mission downloads, one of which gives you access to Deoxys, which can be moved to the DS's other Pokémon games.\n\nThe game takes place on the island region of Oblivia. The player, and a friend and fellow Ranger, Ben (Summer, if the player is male), are flying on Staraptors in the clouds, chasing after Pokémon Pinchers after Latias (Latios for male players). The player allows Latios/Latias to escape by distracting the Pinchers. However, when their squad leader, Red Eyes comes in, the player's partner taunts Red Eyes. He responds by shooting a plasma gun. The player moves forward and shields their partner from the blow, and is sent into the sea below, where the player loses and eventually recovers their styler. (The player's partner is then kidnapped.) The player washes up on a beach- the shores of Dolce Island. The player meets a Pichu with a ukulele, who is known throughout the game as the Ukulele Pichu. This Pichu becomes the partner Pokémon of this game. It will join the player as their Partner Pokémon, after they fix its broken ukulele. As a newly recruited \"Pokémon Ranger\", the player would go on various missions and encounter friends, foes, and rivals, not to mention hordes of Pokémon. The new enemy, the Pokémon Pinchers, are controlling Pokémon and using them to their advantage. With newly found Pokémon companions at their side, the player begins their journey to put a stop to the Pokémon Pinchers and restore peace in Oblivia.\n\n\"Pokémon Ranger: Guardian Signs\" was developed by Creatures Inc. for the Nintendo DS. It was first revealed on January 13, 2010 by Japan's CoroCoro Comic, which had first details about the games. On January 15, Nintendo Japan made an official announcement for the game, and provided screenshots and artwork. It was released in Japan on March 6, 2010, North America on October 4, 2010, and Europe on November 5, 2010.\n\nThe game received mixed or average reviews according to the review aggregator Metacritic. \"GamePro\" rated the game 3/5 stars, stating \"\"Guardian Signs\" isn't much of a departure from the last two titles in the series\". \"IGN\"s Kristine Steimer rated the game 7/10, stating the graphics of \"the different environments look really sharp\" and \"The music depicts the mood of the story very well\". \"GamesRadar+\" rated the game 6/10, stating that the \"\"Guardian Signs\" is a great game for small children, but is too simplistic for the rest of us.\" \"GameZone\" rated the game 6.5/10, and commented \"The visuals of \"Guardian Signs\" actually surprised me... both the characters and the world of Oblivia contain more details than the main Pokemon games.\"\n\nIt was the top selling game in Japan for the week of March 1 through March 7, selling 161,000 copies. It stayed at the top the next week, selling 65,000 copies. It continued to stay on the charts, selling 360,000 copies in the game's first month.\n\n"}
{"id": "2287837", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2287837", "title": "Robert Adams (handgun designer)", "text": "Robert Adams (handgun designer)\n\nRobert Adams (1810–1870) was a 19th-century British gunsmith who patented the first successful double-action revolver in 1851. His revolvers were used during the Crimean War, the Indian Mutiny, the U.S. Civil War, and the Anglo-Zulu War.\n\nAdams was the manager for the London arms manufacturers George & John Deane. On August 22, 1851, he was granted a British patent for a new revolver design.\n\nThe .436 Deane and Adams was a five-shot percussion (cap-and-ball) revolver with a spurless hammer, and the first revolver with a solid frame. The revolver used a double-action only system in which the external hammer could not be cocked by thumbing it back, like most other pistols of the era, but instead cocked itself when the trigger was pulled. This made it possible to fire the gun much more rapidly than contemporary single-action revolvers, such as the Colt, which had to be cocked before each shot.\n\nDeane and Adams' revolver was shown at the Great Exhibition of 1851 and subsequently approved by the British Army's Small Arms Committee in addition to being adopted by the East India Company for use by their cavalry. Orders for the revolver were great enough to prompt the Deane brothers to make Adams a partner in their firm, which became Messrs. Deane, Adams, and Deane.\n\nAlthough highly regarded, the hand-crafted Adams revolver was more expensive than Colt's mass-produced guns. It lacked a recoil shield behind the cylinder, which left the shooter's hand subject to powder burns resulting from \"blowback\" caused by the sometimes unpredictable black powder of the era. The lack of a hammer spur was criticized since the longer trigger pull of the Adams made it less accurate than the Colt. Furthermore, the Adams' nipples, upon which the percussion caps were set, were unhardened and sometimes burst upon firing.\n\nAn \"Improved Frame\" model was offered in 1854, presenting both a sleeker look and more comfortable grip. In that same year the British Board of Ordnance reviewed the Adams together with other percussion revolvers with a view to adopting one as an official service sidearm. Concerns about the gas escape between the cylinder and barrel during discharge resulted in no decision being made. Nevertheless, British officers purchased the Adams privately and the gun proved its worth in battle during the Crimean War.\n\nIn 1855 a veteran of the Crimean conflict, Lieutenant Frederick E.B. Beaumont, improved the gun by linking the trigger to a spurred hammer, permitting both single- and double-action fire. A new version of the revolver, the Beaumont–Adams, was produced and became so popular that it is said Samuel Colt was forced to shut down his London manufactory as a result.\n\nAdams had a falling out with the Deane brothers the following year and founded a new arms concern, the London Armoury Company, on February 9, 1856. Another important stockholder was Adams' cousin, James Kerr, who later invented the Kerrs Patent Revolver. The factory was established on the former site of the South-Eastern Railway Company in the Bermondsey section of London.\n\nThe Indian Mutiny of 1857 established the Adams as the official revolver of the British Army. In the bitter fighting it was found that rapid fire was more important than accuracy, and the man-stopping power of the Adams' large caliber bullet was also valued.\nSeveral variations and improvements were made upon the Adams, which was manufactured in Europe and briefly in the United States under license. The majority of British-made Adams guns seem to have been in 54 bore (approximately .44 caliber), but several smaller and at least one larger bore were also offered. In 1857 the U.S. government purchased 100 revolvers in .36 caliber and another 500 from the Adams-licensed Massachusetts Arms Company. The 100 British-made guns were issued to the U.S. Army with the rest held in storage until issued at the outbreak of the U.S. Civil War. In addition Adams revolvers were purchased from the London Armoury prior to and during the war by individual states and the U.S. and Confederate governments.\n\nThe London Armoury Company flourished due to the manufacture of the Adams revolver, however, in 1859 the company's board of directors decided to increase the production of infantry rifles, decreasing revolver production. Adams disagreed with the decision, selling his stock and leaving the company. Kerr then became the armoury's dominant figure and his revolver, together with a large number of rifles, were sold to the Confederate government which became the armoury's principal client. With the fall of the Confederacy the fortunes of the company declined and it went into receivership in 1866.\nAdams owned the rights to his revolver, which the London Armoury Company had only produced under license, and he now manufactured them in Birmingham, with minor improvements keeping his revolvers in competition with other designs.\n\nIn 1867, Robert Adams' brother John Adams patented a breech-loading revolver which was adopted by the British government in place of the Beaumont–Adams. It was a solid frame pistol with six chambers, in .450 caliber. After official acceptance of his pistol, Adams left the London Armoury Company and established his own factory, the Adams Patent Small Arms Company. His pistol was manufactured in three distinct variations (differences related mainly to methods of spent cartridge ejection) between 1867 and about 1880. The models were tested and adopted by the British Army and Navy, with the last, the M1872 Mark III, seeing the widest use.\n\nThe John Adams revolver remained the official sidearm of the British Army until replaced by the Enfield Mark I in 1880.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1105886", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1105886", "title": "Selection (genetic algorithm)", "text": "Selection (genetic algorithm)\n\nSelection is the stage of a genetic algorithm in which individual genomes are chosen from a population for later breeding (using the crossover operator).\n\nA generic selection procedure may be implemented as follows:\n\nFor a large number of individuals the above algorithm might be computationally quite demanding. A simpler and faster alternative uses the so-called stochastic acceptance.\n\nIf this procedure is repeated until there are enough selected individuals, this selection method is called fitness proportionate selection or \"roulette-wheel selection\". If instead of a single pointer spun multiple times, there are multiple, equally spaced pointers on a wheel that is spun once, it is called stochastic universal sampling.\nRepeatedly selecting the best individual of a randomly chosen subset is tournament selection. Taking the best half, third or another proportion of the individuals is truncation selection.\n\nThere are other selection algorithms that do not consider all individuals for selection, but only those with a fitness value that is higher than a given (arbitrary) constant. Other algorithms select from a restricted pool where only a certain percentage of the individuals are allowed, based on fitness value.\n\nRetaining the best individuals in a generation unchanged in the next generation, is called \"elitism\" or \"elitist selection\". It is a successful (slight) variant of the general process of constructing a new population.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "359757", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=359757", "title": "Sharpeville massacre", "text": "Sharpeville massacre\n\nThe Sharpeville massacre was an event which occurred on 21 March 1960, at the police station in the South African township of Sharpeville in Transvaal (today part of Gauteng). \n\nAfter a day of demonstrations against pass laws, a crowd of about 5,000 to 7,000 protesters went to the police station. The South African Police opened fire on the crowd, killing 69 people and injuring 180 others. Sources disagree as to the behaviour of the crowd; some state that the crowd was peaceful, while others state that the crowd had been hurling stones at the police, and that the shooting started when the crowd started advancing toward the fence around the police station. There were 249 casualties in total, including 29 children. Many sustained back injuries from being shot as they fled.\n\nIn present-day South Africa, 21 March is celebrated as a public holiday in honour of human rights and to commemorate the Sharpeville massacre.\n\nSouth African governments since the eighteenth century had enacted measures to restrict the flow of black South Africans into cities. Pass laws intended to control and direct their movement and employment were updated in the 1950s. Under the country's National Party government, black residents in urban districts were subject to influx control measures. Individuals over sixteen were required to carry passbooks, which contained an identity card, employment and influx authorisation from a labour bureau, name of employer and address, and details of personal history. Leading up to the Sharpeville massacre, the National Party administration under the leadership of Dr. Hendrik Verwoerd used these laws to enforce greater racial segregation and, in 1959-1960, extended them to include women. From the 1960s, the pass laws were the primary instrument used by the state to detain and harass its political opponents.\n\nThe African National Congress (ANC) prepared to initiate a campaign of protests against pass laws. These protests were to begin on 31 March 1960, but the rival Pan-Africanist Congress (PAC), led by Robert Sobukwe, decided to pre-empt the ANC by launching its own campaign ten days earlier, on 21 March, because they believed that the ANC could not win the campaign.\n\nOn March 21, a group of between 5,000 and 10,000 people converged on the local police station in the township of Sharpeville, offering themselves up for arrest for not carrying their passbooks. The Sharpeville police were not completely unprepared for the demonstration, as they had already been forced to drive smaller groups of more militant activists away the previous night.\n\nMany of the civilians present attended to support the protest, but there is evidence that the PAC also used intimidating means to draw the crowd there, including the cutting of telephone lines into Sharpeville, the distribution of pamphlets telling people not to go to work on the day, and coercion of bus drivers and commuters.\n\nBy 10:00, a large crowd had gathered, and the atmosphere was initially peaceful and festive. Fewer than 20 police officers were present in the station at the start of the protest. Later the crowd grew to about 20,000, and the mood was described as \"ugly\", prompting about 130 police reinforcements, supported by four Saracen armoured personnel carriers, to be rushed in. The police were armed with firearms, including Sten submachine guns and Lee–Enfield rifles. There was no evidence that anyone in the gathering was armed with anything other than rocks.\n\nF-86 Sabre jets and Harvard Trainers approached to within a hundred feet of the ground, flying low over the crowd in an attempt to scatter it. The protesters responded by hurling stones (striking three policemen) and menacing the police barricades. Tear gas proved ineffectual, and policemen elected to repel these advances with their batons. At about 13:00 the police tried to arrest a protestor, resulting in a scuffle, and the crowd surged forward. The shooting began shortly thereafter.\n\nThe official figure is that 69 people were killed, including 8 women and 10 children, and 180 injured, including 31 women and 19 children. Many were shot in the back as they turned to flee, causing some to be paralyzed.\n\nPolice reports in 1960 claimed that young and inexperienced police officers panicked and opened fire spontaneously, setting off a chain reaction that lasted about forty seconds. It is likely that the police were nervous as two months before the massacre, nine constables had been assaulted and killed, some disembowelled, during a raid at Cato Manor. In addition, few of the policemen present had received public order training. Some of them had been on duty for over twenty-four hours without respite. Lieutenant Colonel Pienaar, the commanding officer of the police reinforcements at Sharpeville, said in his revealing statement that \"the native mentality does not allow them to gather for a peaceful demonstration. For them to gather means violence.\" He also denied giving any order to fire and stated that he would not have done so.\n\nOther evidence given to the Truth and Reconciliation Commission 38 years later in 1998 by two of the victims claimed \"a degree of deliberation in the decision to open fire\".\n\nThe uproar among South Africa's black population was immediate, and the following week saw demonstrations, protest marches, strikes, and riots around the country. On 30 March 1960, the government declared a state of emergency, detaining more than 18,000 people, including prominent anti-apartheid activists who were known as members of the Congress Alliance.\n\nA storm of international protest followed the Sharpeville shootings, including sympathetic demonstrations in many countries and condemnation by the United Nations. On 1 April 1960, the United Nations Security Council passed Resolution 134. Sharpeville marked a turning point in South Africa's history; the country found itself increasingly isolated in the international community. The event also played a role in South Africa's departure from the Commonwealth of Nations in 1961.\n\nThe Sharpeville massacre contributed to the banning of the PAC and ANC as illegal organisations. The massacre was one of the catalysts for a shift from passive resistance to armed resistance by these organisations. The foundation of Poqo, the military wing of the PAC, and Umkhonto we Sizwe, the military wing of the ANC, followed shortly afterwards.\n\nNot all reactions were negative: embroiled in the Civil Rights Movement, the Mississippi House of Representatives voted a resolution supporting the South African government \"for its steadfast policy of segregation and the stanch adherence to their traditions in the face of overwhelming external agitation.\"\n\nSince 1994, 21 March has been commemorated as Human Rights Day in South Africa.\n\nSharpeville was the site selected by President Nelson Mandela for the signing into law of the Constitution of South Africa on 10 December 1996.\n\nIn 1998, the Truth and Reconciliation Commission (TRC) found that the police actions constituted \"gross human rights violations in that excessive force was unnecessarily used to stop a gathering of unarmed people.\"\n\nOn 21 March 2002, the 42nd anniversary of the massacre, a memorial was opened by former President Nelson Mandela as part of the Sharpeville Human Rights Precinct.\n\nUNESCO marks March 21 as the yearly International Day for the Elimination of Racial Discrimination, in memory of the massacre.\n"}
{"id": "52522313", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52522313", "title": "Siming (deity)", "text": "Siming (deity)\n\nSiming () refers to a Chinese deity or deified functionary of that title who makes fine adjustments to human fate, with various English translations (such as, the Master of Fate, Controller of Fate, Deified Judge of Life, Arbiter of Fate, Director of Allotted Life Spans, and Director of Destinies). Siming is both an abstract deity (or title thereof) and a celestial asterism.\n\nSiming, as Director of Destinies, has the bureaucratic function of human lifespan allocation. Siming seems to have roots in the shamanic traditions, then later to have somewhat assimilated with the Kitchen God, as in the Daoist case of the Three Worms, in which Siming becomes a deity to whom home household activities are periodically reported,\n\nAs an asterism, or apparent stellar constellation, Siming is associated with the Wenchang Wang star pattern, near the Big Dipper, in what is more or less Aquarius.\n\nSometimes the term \"Siming\" is qualified by 大 (\"da\", meaning \"big\" or \"greater\") or by 少 (\"shao\", meaning \"small\" or \"lesser\").\n\nThe Siming deity has the bureaucratic function of human lifespan allocation. In bureaucratic terms, \"Si\" (司) is a common term, meaning \"in charge of\", \"a person or department which is in charge of something\", often translated as \"secretary\". Commonly, in real life or in imagined bureaucracies, there were Chief and Assistant Secretaries (\"Dasi\" and \"Shaosi\"). \"Ming\" (命) is a complicated word with a long folk and technical history, basically meaning \"life\" or \"the balance of fate or destiny\", personified as Siming. Often, a deified entity such as Siming receives increased sanctity over time, signified by additional official titles.\n\nAs a deity Siming takes his, her, or their place in a complex cosmological system of Chinese religion and mythology. Over time, this system became a visualization of a complex cosmology including the elaboration of a heavenly bureaucracy, somewhat parallel to the earthly bureaucracy of the Chinese state, and invoking the same sort of explicit hierarchy.\n\nSiming's special concern (and power) is the balancing of yin and yang (Hawkes 2011 (1985), 109). Of particular relevance here is the relation between yin and yang balance and human health, and the importance to individual human health of such balance, as articulated in traditional Chinese medicine. Siming has the power to balance or unbalance yin and yang, and thus to lengthen or shorten human lifespans, or to provide health or prolong illness.\n\nAn idea from Daoism/traditional Chinese medicine relates to the Siming. Also known as the \"sanshi\" (三尸 \"Three Corpses\") or \"sanchong\" (三蟲 \"Three Worms\"), the Three Deathbringers are part of a Daoist physiological belief that demonic creatures live inside the human body, and they seek to hasten the death of their hosts. These three supernatural parasites allegedly enter the person at birth, and reside in the three dantian \"energy centers\" (head, chest, and abdomen). Succeeding the demise of their human host, they become free of the body as malevolent \"ghosts\". However, this process is regulated by Siming, who may or may not permit this process: in this regard, Siming is said to rely on the reports which the Three Deathbringers (and perhaps Kitchen God) provide on specifically regulated dates. Based on these reports, and perhaps other information, Siming alters the fine yin-yang balance of each individual, thus regulating each one's health or sickness, and ultimately each's lifespan. Nevertheless, humans are believed to have various recourses available to alter the judgement of Siming regarding their fates, such as interfering with the reporting process, praying to Siming or his superiors, or following treatment from a doctor to improve the yin-yang balance, and thus extend the lifespan.\n\nOne of the early literary references to Siming as a deity is in a section of the book \"Zhuangzi\", from about 300 BCE (莊子, 至樂: Zhuāngzǐ, Zhì lè).\n\nOne of the great literary figures of China, Zhou of the Zhuang family became known as Master Zhuang, Zhuangzi, to many subsequent generations. Living in about the 3rd century BCE, Zhuangzi's words and anecdotes have since become a central part of philosophy and culture around the globe. One anecdote, presumably relayed by the Master himself is that one day, while traveling down the road, he came upon a skull. After a prolonged and introspective session of speculation on what unhappy events had led to some unknown person's lack of proper burial, in such an inappropriate final resting spot: whose it had been and by what event the skull came to be lying here, abandoned by the wayside. Master Zhuang then became tired, and lay down to sleep, pillowing his head upon \"Mr. Skull\". In his sleep, the skull came and lectured the Master upon the great tranquillity and happiness experienced by the dead. Zhuangzi retorted that he could petition Siming to use his or her powers over Fate and Destiny to restore the skull to be again a living human being, and then he or she could return to both hometown and family. The skull emphatically denies any such desire, and ends the encounter by rhetorically asking why anyone in such a state of unassailable happiness as experienced by the dead would ever wish give this up in exchange for suffering the vicissitudes of the living?\n\nIn ancient times, astrology and astronomy were hardly distinguished. In China, on the one hand, there was the observation of phenomena in the sky, particularly trans-atmospheric phenomena: this observational study of experiential events became differentially known as Chinese astronomy. On the other hand, cerebral and emotional impulses lead to the development of a more philosophic, religious, and sometimes superstitious phenomenon known as Chinese astrology. It is worth emphasizing that the differentiation between the two is relatively modern. The astronomical asterisms of Siming (itself, actually part of asterism 虛, \"Emptiness\") consist of the Deified Judge of Life star group. Sīmìngyī: (24 Aquarii, 司命一) and Sīmìngèr (26 Aquarii, 司命二); that is, Siming One and Siming Two. Astrological considerations appear to have had some influence on the assignment of names.\n\nWenchang Wang (Chinese: 文昌王), also known as Wenchang Dijun (Chinese: 文昌帝君), or simply as Wen Qu, or Wen, is a Taoist god of Culture and Literature. Literally he is King (王) of Flourishing (昌) Culture/Language (文). Wenchang Wang is physically represented by a constellation of six stars near the Big Dipper. The stars traditional names are: Shangjiang (上將), Cijiang (次將), Guixiang (貴相), Siming (司命), Sizhong (司中), and Silu (司祿). Wenchang Wang is often depicted as an elderly scholar accompanied by two attendants, Tianlong (天聾 or Heaven-Deaf) and Diya (地啞 or Earth-Mute). Wenchang has historically been called upon by scholars and writers who need inspiration or help right before an exam, in especial, traditionally, the Imperial examination.\n\nThe ancient poetry text \"Chu Ci\" features to Siming in two titles of the \"Jiu Ge\" (Hawkes 2011 (1985), 95 and following, and 118 and following): the so-called \"Greater Siming\" and the \"Lesser Siming\". The \"Chuci\" poetry anthology (collected late BC - early BCE) has a section \"Nine Songs\" (\"Jiu Ge\"). To of its poems are titled \"Greater Master of Fate\" and \"Lesser Master of Fate\". The \"Greater\" and \"Lesser\" may refer to two different Siming deities, two aspects of the same deity (such as Jin and Chu (state) shamanic cult versions, both of which were prominent at the time the poems were collected and both of which listed Siming as a god), the greater and lesser may refer to the length of the poems, have some seasonal connotation, or perhaps there is some other explanation. (Hawkes 2011 (1985), 110)\n\nTwo Siming are found in \"The Legend of Qin\" film. There are a Greater Siming (大司命), appearing as the Priestess of Death and a Lesser Siming (少司命) as Priestess of Birth.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "850969", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=850969", "title": "Systemic inflammatory response syndrome", "text": "Systemic inflammatory response syndrome\n\nSystemic inflammatory response syndrome (SIRS) is an inflammatory state affecting the whole body. It is the body's response to an infectious or noninfectious insult. Although the definition of SIRS refers to it as an \"inflammatory\" response, it actually has pro- and anti-inflammatory components.\n\nSIRS is frequently complicated by failure of one or more organs or organ systems. The complications of SIRS include:\n\nThe causes of SIRS are broadly classified as infectious or noninfectious. Causes of SIRS include:\n\nOther causes include:\n\nSIRS is a serious condition related to systemic inflammation, organ dysfunction, and organ failure. It is a subset of cytokine storm, in which there is abnormal regulation of various cytokines. SIRS is also closely related to sepsis, in which patients satisfy criteria for SIRS and have a suspected or proven infection.\n\nMany experts consider SIRS to be overly sensitive, as nearly all (>90%) of patients admitted to the ICU meet the SIRS criteria.\n\nManifestations of SIRS include, but are not limited to:\n\nWhen two or more of these criteria are met with or without evidence of infection, patients may be diagnosed with \"SIRS.\" Patients with SIRS and acute organ dysfunction may be termed \"severe SIRS.\" Note: Fever and an increased white blood cell count are features of the acute-phase reaction, while an increased heart rate is often the initial sign of hemodynamic compromise. An increased rate of breathing may be related to the increased metabolic stress due to infection and inflammation, but may also be an ominous sign of inadequate perfusion resulting in the onset of anaerobic cellular metabolism.\n\nThe International Pediatric Sepsis Consensus has proposed some changes to adapt these criteria to the pediatric population.\n\nIn children, the SIRS criteria are modified in the following fashion:\n\nTemperature or white blood cell count must be abnormal to qualify as SIRS in pediatric patients.\n\nSIRS was first described by Dr. William R. Nelson, of the University of Toronto, in a presentation to the Nordic Micro Circulation meeting in Geilo, Norway in February 1983. There was intent to encourage a definition which dealt with the multiple (rather than a single) etiologies associated with organ dysfunction and failure following a hypotensive shock episode. The active pathways leading to such pathophysiology may include fibrin deposition, platelet aggregation, coagulopathies and leukocyte liposomal release. The implication of such a definition suggests that recognition of the activation of one such pathway is often indicative of that additional pathophysiologic processes are also active and that these pathways are synergistically destructive. The clinical condition may lead to renal failure, respiratory distress syndrome, central nervous system dysfunction and possible gastrointestinal bleeding.\n\nCriteria for SIRS were established in 1992 as part of the American College of Chest Physicians/Society of Critical Care Medicine Consensus Conference. The conference concluded that the manifestations of SIRS include, but are not limited to the first four described above under adult SIRS critera.\n\nIn septic patients, these clinical signs can also be seen in other proinflammatory conditions, such as trauma, burns, pancreatitis, etc. A follow-up conference therefore decided to define the patients with a documented or highly suspicious infection that results in a systemic inflammatory response as having sepsis.\n\nNote that SIRS criteria are non-specific, and must be interpreted carefully within the clinical context. These criteria exist primarily for the purpose of more objectively classifying critically ill patients so that future clinical studies may be more rigorous and more easily reproducible.\n\nGenerally, the treatment for SIRS is directed towards the underlying problem or inciting cause (i.e. adequate fluid replacement for hypovolemia, IVF/NPO for pancreatitis, epinephrine/steroids/diphenhydramine for anaphylaxis).\nSelenium, glutamine, and eicosapentaenoic acid have shown effectiveness in improving symptoms in clinical trials. Other antioxidants such as vitamin E may be helpful as well.\n\nSeptic treatment protocol and diagnostic tools have been created due to the potentially severe outcome septic shock. For example, the SIRS criteria were created as mentioned above to be extremely sensitive in suggesting which patients may have sepsis. However, these rules lack specificity, i.e. not a true diagnosis of the condition, but rather a suggestion to take necessary precautions. The SIRS criteria are guidelines set in place to ensure septic patients receive care as early as possible.\n\nIn cases caused by an implanted mesh, removal (explantation) of the polypropylene surgical mesh implant may be indicated.\n\nThe concept of SIRS was first conceived of and presented by Dr. William R. Nelson, of the Department of Surgery of the University of Toronto at the Nordic Micro Circulation meeting in 1983. The presentation followed a decade of research with colleagues including; Dr. J. Vaage of the University of Oslo, Norway, Dr. D. Bigger, the Hospital for Sick Children, Toronto, Dr. D. Sepro of Boston University, and Dr. H. Movat of the Department of Pathology at the University of Toronto. The laboratory experience was borne out in the clinical setting with Canada's first trauma unit for which Nelson was a co-founder. This allowed in the mid 1980s, the concepts of SIRS to be taught by Dr. Miles Johnson of the university of Toronto, Department of Pathology at the undergraduate dental school, as well as to residents in the Department of Surgery of the University of Toronto who rotated through the Regional Trauma Unit at Sunnybrook Medical Center. SIRS was more broadly adopted in 1991 at the American College of Chest Physicians/Society of Critical Care Medicine Consensus Conference with the goal of aiding in the early detection of sepsis.\n"}
{"id": "48756720", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48756720", "title": "Tachyaerobic", "text": "Tachyaerobic\n\nTachyaerobic is a term used in biology to describe the muscles of large animals and birds that are able to maintain high levels or physical activity because their hearts make up at least 0.5-0.6 percent of their body mass and maintain high blood pressures. A reptile displaying equal size to a tachyaerobic mammal does not have the same capabilities. Tachyaerobic animals' hearts beat more quickly, produce more oxygen, and distribute blood at a quicker rate than reptiles.\n\nThe use of tachyaerobic muscles is important to animals such as giraffes that need blood circulated through a large body size quickly.\n\n"}
{"id": "44080832", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44080832", "title": "Technical file", "text": "Technical file\n\nA technical file is a set of documents that describes a product and can prove that the product was designed and according to the requirements of a quality management system.\n\nAll products that have a CE mark must have a technical file which must contain the information that proves that the product conforms with the EU directives for CE-marked products. EU enforcement authorities may demand a copy of the technical file for many years after the last product was made. Customers do not usually have access to the technical file.\n\nA technical file is usually based on a document archive system that ensures longevity of documents and can either be on paper or in electronic files. One document may be named \"technical file\" and list all other documents that are considered part of the technical file.\n\nA technical file includes drawings, specifications, reports, review records, meeting minutes, labels, instructions for use, software source code, etc.\n\nThe sub-clause 4.2.3 of ISO 13485:2016 requires a manufacturer of a medical device to establish a technical file (medical device file).\n\nA similar concept in the USA is the Device Master Record for medical devices.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25550642", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25550642", "title": "The Man Who Came Back (2008 film)", "text": "The Man Who Came Back (2008 film)\n\nThe Man Who Came Back is a 2008 American film directed by Glen Pitre. It stars Eric Braeden, Billy Zane, George Kennedy, and Armand Assante. Set in southern Louisiana, it is loosely based on the 1887 sugar strike in four parishes and violence that erupted in the Thibodaux Massacre.\n\n\"The Man Who Came Back\" is loosely based on the Thibodaux massacre. This was the culmination of the largest strike in the sugar cane industry, when 10,000 workers stopped labor, and the first to be conducted by a formal labor organization, the Knights of Labor. With an estimated 50 or more African-American cane workers killed by white paramilitary forces, it was the second bloodiest labor strike in U.S. history.\n\nFollowing Reconstruction and white Democrats regaining control of the state government, in the late 1880s, freedmen worked hard on sugar cane plantations but were bound by many of the planters' practices. They were sometimes paid only in scrip, redeemable only at the plantation's overpriced store, and the workers struggled to get out of debt and be able to leave a plantation.\n\nIn an attempt to better their lives, the workers strike. This leads to massive retaliation by the most powerful men in the town, including the sheriff (Armand Assante), the preacher (Al Hayter), power-hungry Billy Duke (James Patrick Stuart), and his vigilante group of thugs.\n\nWhite overseer Reese Paxton (Eric Braeden) steps up to demand justice for his workers. Duke's rage turns on Paxton and his family. Despite assistance from a Yankee attorney (Billy Zane), Paxton is convicted in a trial presided by Judge Duke (George Kennedy), Billy's father.\n\nAfter being sent to prison, beaten within inches of his life, and enduring emotional torture, Paxton \"comes back\" to seek revenge.\n\n"}
{"id": "7263108", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7263108", "title": "Tree of Knowledge (Australia)", "text": "Tree of Knowledge (Australia)\n\nThe Tree of Knowledge is a heritage-listed tree in Oak Street, Barcaldine, Barcaldine Region, Queensland, Australia. The town was the headquarters of the 1891 Australian shearers' strike and the 1892 reading of the Labour Party manifesto leading to the formation of the Australian Labor Party (ALP). It was a 200-year-old \"Corymbia aparrerinja\" ghost gum. It was added to the Queensland Heritage Register on 21 October 1992.\n\nThe Tree of Knowledge is a ghost gum located in front of the Barcaldine railway station under which the workers of the 1891 Shearer's Strike met. An icon of the Labor Party and Trades Unions, it symbolises the foundation of the organised representation of labour in Queensland.\n\nBarcaldine sprang up in 1886 as the terminus of the Central Western railway. The area was already settled by pastoralists and had previously been centred on Blackall. Large sheep stations were like small townships with their own working facilities, stores, worker's accommodation and tradesmen such as blacksmiths. The owners and managers of these stations had considerable power to dictate terms to an itinerant workforce of sheep shearers recruited for the shearing season. Poor working conditions, low pay and the threat of competition from cheap foreign labour caused discontent within the industry.\n\nBarcaldine was a natural focus for the development of unionism. As the railhead, the town drew many seasonal and casual workers. Besides shearers and hands there were navvies who had worked on the construction of the railway and carriers who had found their work reduced by it. Difficulties in finding work and financial hardship helped to build a sense of mateship and mutual support amongst sections of them. In 1887 the Central Queensland Carriers Union was formed, and discussions leading up to this are said to have been held under the gum tree which provided shade where carriers waited at the front of the railway station. At the same time, the Queensland Shearers' Union was formed at Blackall. Within a year it had 1300 members, indicating a perceived need for collective bargaining to obtain fair pay and working conditions. In 1888 the Central Queensland Labourers' Union was formed at Barcaldine. These three unions were the driving force behind the strike of 1891.\n\nIn Brisbane, the Trades and Labour Council was formed in 1885 and in 1889 became the Australian Labour Federation. At Barcaldine in the same year the Pastoral Employers' Association was founded in response and moved to reduce pay rates. Many workers now joined the unions, pushing membership of the Shearers Union over 3000 and the Labourer's Union to 2,250. Only severe wet weather in 1890 delayed a confrontation. By January 1891 union representatives had gathered at Barcaldine for meetings and pastoralists were pressing shearers to sign freedom of contract forms. A strike was called and employers began to import non-union labour from the south. Strikers, some of whom were armed, gathered at Barcaldine and set up a camp at Lagoon Creek and other places around the town.\n\nThe Queensland Government dispatched police and soldiers to the area and the strikers responded by drilling and staging torchlight processions in the town. As the non-union labour, police and soldiers usually arrived by rail, strikers would rally outside the railway station to block their arrival and protest. Consequently, the tree in front of the station, the Tree of Knowledge, was the location of many meetings and a focus for protest. In March 1891 the situation escalated as carriers and railway workers went out in sympathy and military reinforcements arrived. Barcaldine became the focus of the whole country's interest and armed conflict was expected. However, heavy rain which limited movement and the arrest of leaders slowed momentum and strikers began to disperse. On 15 June the strike was officially called off. It had failed, but was to have far reaching effects. The following year, T.J. Ryan became the first representative of labour to be elected to the Queensland Parliament. In 1892, at the foot of the tree, the Manifesto of the Queensland Labour Party dated 9 September 1892 was read out, leading to the formation of the Labor Party in Queensland. The manifesto is considered one of the foundation documents of the current Australian Labor Party.\n\nBecause the area beneath the Tree of Knowledge was the scene of actions and decisions which had a profound effect on the future of labour and politics in Australia, it has become an icon of the Labor Party and Trades Unions. It is also important to the people of Barcaldine as a symbol of the town's identity and historical importance. This is reflected by the name chosen for the commemoration committee formed in 1987, the Tree of Knowledge Development Committee, and by the care given to the tree. In 1990 it was discovered that the tree was infested by termites and other insects and had severe health problems. Treatment by a tree surgeon, pest control and flushing of the root system with thousands of litres of water gave the tree a new lease of life. This treatment was completed in late 1993.\n\nIn 1991, there were major celebrations at Barcaldine to mark the centenary of the Shearers' Strike. In preparation for this, the area around the tree was landscaped and a memorial to the strikers erected within the enclosure.\n\nIn 2006, in an act of vandalism, the tree was poisoned with glyphosate (a main ingredient in the herbicide RoundUp). An arborist declared the tree dead on 3 October 2006. The ALP offered a reward of A$10,000 for any information that would help identify those responsible.\n\nThe remains of the tree were removed on 29 July 2007. According to a Queensland Government release the tree is undergoing a process of wood preservation and the remains of the tree – tall and across – are being transferred to a special preservation facility. In 2008 the tree was successfully cloned in by workers at the former Queensland Department of Primary Industries.\n\nSeveral cuttings propagated from the tree before its death are now growing in Barcaldine. A clone of the tree has also been planted at the Ecosciences Precinct in Brisbane.\n\nOn 19 April 2011 Prime Minister Julia Gillard joined ACT Chief Minister Jon Stanhope at the National Arboretum Canberra in a ceremonial planting of a tree grown from an original cutting of the Tree of Knowledge.\n\nA new memorial on the site of the remains of the original tree (costing about A$5M) was designed by m3architecture and Brian Hooper Architect. It was officially opened on 2 May 2009. The memorial won The Lachlan Macquarie Award for Heritage Architecture and a National Commendation for Public Architecture at the 2010 National Architecture Awards of the Australian Institute of Architects.\n\nThe Tree of Knowledge is a ghost gum (Corymbia aparrerinja) situated outside the railway station in the main street of Barcaldine. Early photographys show a wider canopy than existed at the time of the tree's demise. At the foot of the tree is a plaque which says:This plaque commemorates the loyalty, courage, and sacrifice in 1891 of the stalwart men and women of the west from whom, beneath this tree, emerged Australia's labour and political movement.The Tree of Knowledge is protected by a modern metal fence and the area surrounding it is bordered by a low rail composed of evenly spaced lengths of log and is landscaped with flowering shrubs. This area also contains a flagpole and a bronze and granite monument symbolising shear blades which was erected in 1991 to commemorate the centenary of the Shearer's Strike.\n\nTree of Knowledge was listed on the Queensland Heritage Register on 21 October 1992 having satisfied the following criteria.\n\nThe place is important in demonstrating the evolution or pattern of Queensland's history.\n\nThe Tree of Knowledge was a key site during the Shearer's Strike in 1891, a confrontation between capital and labour that was a major event in Queensland's history. The strike was a watershed in the development of the labour movement and the formation of the Australian Labor Party.\n\nThe place has a strong or special association with a particular community or cultural group for social, cultural or spiritual reasons.\n\nThe Tree of Knowledge is closely linked with the cultural identity of Barcaldine and has a strong association with its people.\n\nThe place has a special association with the life or work of a particular person, group or organisation of importance in Queensland's history.\n\nThe Tree of Knowledge has a special association with the history of the Australian Labor Party and with the Trades Union movement in Queensland.\n\nIn 2009 as part of the Q150 celebrations, the Tree of Knowledge was announced as one of the Q150 Icons of Queensland for its role as a \"location\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18468924", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18468924", "title": "Zombie taxon", "text": "Zombie taxon\n\nIn paleontology, a zombie taxon (plural \"zombie taxa\") or the zombie effect refers to a fossil, such as a dinosaur tooth, that was washed out of sediments and re-deposited in rocks and/or sediments millions of years younger. That basic mistake in the interpretation of the age of the fossil leads to its title. The discovered fossil was at some point mobile (or \"walking\") while the original animal or plant had long been dead. When that occurs, the fossil is described as a \"reworked fossil\" or \"remanié\".\n\n\n"}
