{"id": "31479615", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31479615", "title": "2012 California Proposition 29", "text": "2012 California Proposition 29\n\nProposition 29, the California Cancer Research Act, is a California ballot measure that was defeated by California voters at the statewide election on June 5, 2012.\n\nThe measure would have placed a $1 excise on tobacco products into a protected fund to finance medical research on smoking-related illnesses, strengthen California’s smoking prevention and cessation programs, and enforce the state’s existing tobacco laws.\n\nThe independent California Legislative Analyst's Office projected that the measure would have generated approximately $855 million in first year, declining slightly but predictably (about 3% annually due to decrease in the number of smokers) every year thereafter. \n\nThe measure would have created a nine-member committee charged with administering direct revenues. This oversight committee was to be composed of cancer-research medical professionals, University of California Chancellors, and representatives of national disease advocacy groups. The measure restricted administration costs to no more than 2% of its direct tax revenues.\n\nThe California Cancer Research Act was widely supported by cancer advocates, including cancer survivor Lance Armstrong and the American Cancer Society.\n\nAccording to the independent California Legislative Analyst's Office, revenue raised by the measure would have been spent as follows:\n\nThe measure would have created a 9-member governing committee charged with administering the fund. The California Cancer Research Act Oversight Committee was to be composed of:\n\nThe California Secretary of State confirmed that The California Cancer Research Act had qualified for California’s next statewide ballot on August 24, 2010, after its supporting coalition submitted 633,453 voter signatures for verification in June 2010. To qualify, the measure required 433,971 signatures, or more.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49817420", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49817420", "title": "2016 Angola and DR Congo yellow fever outbreak", "text": "2016 Angola and DR Congo yellow fever outbreak\n\nOn 20 January 2016, the health minister of Angola reported 23 cases of yellow fever with 7 deaths among Eritrean and Congolese citizens living in Angola in Viana municipality, a suburb of the capital of Luanda. The first cases (hemorrhagic fever suspected as being yellow fever) were reported in Eritrean visitors beginning on 5 December 2015 and confirmed by the Pasteur WHO reference laboratory in Dakar, Senegal in January. The outbreak was classified as an urban cycle of yellow fever transmission, which can spread rapidly. A preliminary finding that the strain of the yellow fever virus was closely related to a strain identified in a 1971 outbreak in Angola was confirmed in August 2016. Moderators from ProMED-mail stressed the importance of initiating a vaccination campaign immediately to prevent further spread. The CDC classified the outbreak as Watch Level 2 (Practice Enhanced Precautions) on 7 April 2016. The WHO declared it a grade 2 event on its emergency response framework having moderate public health consequences.\n\nAt an emergency committee meeting in Geneva, Switzerland on 19 May 2016, the WHO declared that the outbreak was serious and might continue to spread, but decided not to declare a public health emergency of international concern (PHEIC). On 30 May, Margaret Chan, director-general of WHO published a commentary on the bold action needed to prevent further spread of this important communicable disease that caused many historically significant epidemics that took many lives in previous centuries. On 8 June the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies called for a scale-up in the response because of the lack of vaccine and other limitations amid the continuing spread of the outbreak. On 12 August 2016, Dr. Daniel R Lucey, a ProMED mail consultant, wrote an open letter to Dr. Chan requesting that the WHO emergency committee be reconvened to consider a PHEIC because of the continued spread of the disease in DR Congo, the lack of sufficient vaccine, and concern that it may be spreading into the Republic of the Congo. On 31 August, the decision to not declare a PHEIC was re-confirmed. By 2 September 2016, WHO announced there had been no new cases in either Angola or DR Congo in over a month due to a massive vaccination campaign. On 25 November 2016, WHO announced that four months had passed without a new case. The last case in Angola was on 23 June and the last case in DR Congo was on 12 July. Dr Matshidiso Moeti, WHO Regional Director for Africa, stated: \"The current battle against yellow fever in Angola and the Democratic Republic of the Congo is coming to a close, ... But the broader war against the disease is just getting started.\" ProMED-mail moderator Tom Yuill noted that maintaining vaccination coverage in the two countries will be the next challenge. Approximately 30 million people were vaccinated in the two countries.\n\nBy early February, suspected cases were being reported from southern Huila province, about a 1000 kilometers south, and the provinces of Bié, Benguela, Cunene, Cabinda, Hula, Huambo, Malange, Kwanza Sul, Uige, Zaire and Kwanza Norte. As of 9 March 2016, the WHO reported that there were 65 confirmed cases, 813 suspected cases, and 138 deaths in Angola. On 22 March, WHO reported that cases had occurred in 6 of the 18 provinces of Angola, and that transmission was ongoing. Suspected and confirmed cases totaled 1,132, with 375 cases laboratory confirmed and 168 deaths. The situation report of 28 October 2016 reported the most recent number of suspected cases and laboratory-confirmed cases; total deaths and case fatality rates, with suspected and confirmed cases. Local, or autochthonous, transmission had been reported in 12 provinces as of 28 October. Confirmed cases had been reported in 16 of 18 provinces. No new cases were reported during July. The WHO congratulated the Angolan government on its effort to contain the outbreak.\n\nOn 22 March April 2016, the WHO was notified of 21 deaths from yellow fever in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, some in a province that borders Angola. As of 31 May, 700 suspected cases and 63 deaths had been reported to WHO through the national surveillance system. As of 31 May, 52 cases were laboratory confirmed by the National Institute for Biomedical Research in Kinshasa and the Pasteur Institute in Dakar. Forty-six of the 52 cases were imported from Angola; 2 were classified as autochthonous. Local transmission was still ongoing in urban areas in Angola and DR Congo. WHO classified the outbreak in DR Congo as a Grade 2 Emergency. On 30 May, the GAVI Alliance announced the launch of a mass vaccination campaign in DR Congo, but as of 22 June, vaccine was in short supply. On 20 June, the health minister declared the outbreak of yellow fever in three provinces, including the capital of DR Congo, Kinshasa. Transmission within Kinshasa is of concern because of the large and densely packed population. As of 8 July, WHO was notified of 1798 suspected cases, with 68 confirmed cases (59 imported from Angola) and 85 deaths. In the WHO situation report of 23 September, the last confirmed non-sylvatic or urban case had symptom onset on 12 July.\n\nOn 17 March, two cases, including one death, were reported in Kenya, imported from Angola. On 28 March, a rapid response team was deployed into Uganda, where there was ongoing transmission unrelated to the Angola outbreak. According to WHO, cases had been exported from Angola to China, DR Congo, and Kenya, as of 4 May 2016. One case had been reported in Namibia.\n\nProMED mail reported that as of 3 Aug 2016, 193 cases of yellow fever were suspected in the Republic of the Congo, with 4 cases having tested positive for yellow fever IgM. Further proliferation of the mosquito vector had been expected with the advent of the rainy season, which can begin before the end of September.\n\nOn 13 March 2016, the Chinese government confirmed that a 32-year-old male Chinese citizen who had been in Angola had developed yellow fever on return. The case was the first imported yellow fever case in China in history. Yellow fever has never appeared in Asia even though the mosquito vector is present. Additional cases were later reported in people who first had symptoms while in Luanda. ProMED-mail moderator Jack Woodall warned that \"spread could make the Ebola and Zika epidemics look like picnics in the park!\" and that \"international action should start now.\" Chinese authorities strengthened thermal imaging at airports to detect passengers with elevated body temperatures. A Chinese medical team deployed to Angola vaccinated 120 Chinese nationals as part of epidemic research. More than 250,000 Chinese nationals live in Angola. On 8 April 2016, ten North Korean workers in Angola were reported to have died of yellow fever.\n\nOn 25 March 2016, a case was reported in Fujian Province, in a woman who returned from Angola on 12 March. Fujian is within the predicted distribution of Aedes aegypti, the mosquito that transmits the yellow fever virus to humans. Mosquito-borne diseases can become endemic in a new geographic area when local mosquitoes become infected by feeding on an imported case. Between 18 March and 22 April, the WHO was notified of 11 imported cases in China. Officials in Asia were concerned about the threat of yellow fever.\n\nOn 28 March, ProMED-mail moderators Jack Woodall and Tom Yuill issued a strongly worded warning on the threat of yellow fever for countries that have endemic dengue fever (and thus the mosquito vector of yellow fever and dengue fever, Aedes aegypti), and particularly for countries in Asia, where until recently yellow fever has never appeared. Urban populations and mosquito-infested slums in Asia and Africa are much larger than in the past. A commentary and accompanying article published in May stressed the potential for spread to Asia by international air travel. Other parts of the world where yellow fever is present but usually in the quiescent jungle cycle, and where there is regular air travel, such as Brazil, may also be vulnerable. They stressed that world stocks of 7 million doses of vaccine have been exhausted in the vaccination campaign against the outbreak in Angola. If yellow fever spread to the 18 countries in Asia where the mosquito vector is present, more than 2 billion people would be at risk. They stated: \"Apocalyptic forecasts of the numbers of fatalities from Ebola turned out to be wildly wrong, and we can hope that will again be the case here, but given the way Zika has exploded in the Western hemisphere, we can't count on it.\" CDC said they could not assist as much in the outbreak because all its experts were involved in efforts against the Zika virus outbreak in the Americas. Starting on 26 April, ProMED-mail issued a series of posts on pre-planning information for countries at risk of importation of yellow fever, covering vaccination, mosquito control, quarantine and personal protection measures.\n\nIn an article in \"JAMA\" on 9 May 2016, the Georgetown University Law Center called for the WHO to form an emergency committee to determine whether a public health emergency of international concern should be declared. On 12 May, the European Commissioner for Humanitarian Aid and Civil Protection of the European Union announced plans to send a team of the European Medical Corps to Angola on a two-week mission to help control the outbreak and assess the risk of further spread outside Angola. The medical corps was formed after the Ebola outbreak in West Africa that began in 2013, and the mission to Angola was its first deployment. The team included \"emergency medical teams, public health and medical coordination experts, mobile biosafety laboratories, medical evacuation planes and logistical support teams\".\n\nEfforts to prevent international spread are confounded by the practice of selling falsified yellow fever vaccination certificates. The fake cards are sold to people who are required to have proof of vaccination after travel to areas where yellow fever is endemic. On 11 February 2016, the Pasteur Institute (WHO) in Senegal warned of fake yellow fever vaccine on the international market.\n\nWith help from the World Health Organization (WHO), the Angolan Ministry of Health began a campaign of preventive measures including vector control and vaccination in Viana in the first week of February. However, the minister reported that the government had enough vaccine for routine vaccination, but not enough to contain an outbreak. The WHO was supporting the Angolan government in immunization of 6.7 million people in Luanda province with the aim of vaccinating at least 80% of the population at risk of infection. The vaccine supply began to run low by late March, with the director of the CDC, Tom Friedman, warning that \"It's possible we could run out of vaccine.\" The goal of the vaccination campaign in Luanda province was to vaccinate 88 percent of the population (5 804 475 of 6 583 216); ProMED reported that the total national stock of yellow fever vaccine as of 29 Mar 2016 was 1 032 970 doses. As of 10 April 2016, almost 6 million people had been vaccinated in Luanda. On 19 April, the WHO reported that the campaign had been extended into the provinces of Huambo and Benguela where local transmission was reported. On 23 May, the WHO reported that 7.8 million people (91.1%) had been vaccinated in the three provinces. On 23 May, the WHO announced that coverage of an additional 2.7 million people in 5 provinces had reached 55% after 6 days of vaccination. A second phase of the vaccination campaign in Angola was announced in the situation report of 23 September.\n\nOn June 22, the WHO announced plans to launch a pre-emptive emergency vaccination campaign beginning in July in highly trafficked borders areas of Angola and DR Congo and in densely populated Kinshasa. On 20 July, the DR Congo government launched a campaign to deliver 1 million doses of yellow fever vaccine over 10 days. In August, the WHO with partners including Médecins sans Frontières, International Federation of the Red Cross and UNICEF launched another campaign to vaccinate more than 14 million people in Angola and DR Congo. On 2 September, WHO announced that the campaign to vaccinate the 7.7 million residents of Kinshasa, the capitol of DR Congo, had been completed in record time and before the beginning of the rainy season in September when the mosquito population expands. The campaign required 10 million specialized syringes and training of 40,000 vaccinators, using the dose sparing strategy of 1/5 the usual dose. In the situation report of 23 September, the WHO announced that a pre-emptive vaccination campaign was being planned for the Republic of Congo.\n\nOne million doses of 6 million shipped in February went missing, resulting in shortages to fight the spreading epidemic in DR Congo. The estimated shortage was 22 million doses as of August 2016. Vaccine and syringes might have been diverted for sale in private markets.\n\nIf the epidemic were to spread, particularly into Asia, the global supply of vaccine would have been insufficient to protect the millions of people that would need to be vaccinated to curb an epidemic. As an emergency measure, experts suggested the dose-sparing strategy to extend existing supplies of vaccine, which the WHO could provide under the Emergency Use Assessment and Listing procedure. The WHO agreed to the recommendation, authorizing one-fifth the usual dose during the ongoing outbreak in Angola and DR Congo, but international health regulations still apply to travelers, who must obtain the full dose to quality for the certificate of vaccination.\n\nIn June 2016, a WHO representative in Luanda said that the initial investigation of the outbreak in December was thrown off course because the first cases in December 2015—the sick Eritrean visitors—had what were later identified as fake yellow fever vaccination certificates. All had been to the same restaurant, so food poisoning was initially suspected as the cause of the mystery illness. It was more than a month before blood samples from the Eritreans reached the Pasteur Institute lab and yellow fever was recognized. Public health experts identified that as one factor that delayed the response to the outbreak, which came close to being a much larger disaster, if vaccine supplies had not been successfully raised in time, or the disease had spread to other countries and continents. The concurrent Zika outbreak drew attention away from a potentially far more serious epidemic of yellow fever.\n\n"}
{"id": "27285990", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27285990", "title": "Adjective Check List", "text": "Adjective Check List\n\nThe Adjective Check List (ACL) is a psychological assessment containing 300 adjectives used to identify common psychological traits. The ACL was constructed by Harrison G. Gough and Alfred B. Heilbrun, Jr. with the goal to assess psychological traits of an individual. The ACL measures 37 scales within 5 categories: modus operandi (4 scales), need (15 scales), topical (9 scales), transactional analysis (5 scales), and origence-intellectence (4 scales). To complete the ACL, respondents select the adjectives that they believe describe themselves (or someone else). Any number of items may be selected from the list of adjectives. In this way, the results are customized to include only those adjectives salient to the individual being assessed. The ACL takes between 10-15 minutes to complete and may be administered to individuals, groups, or used by researchers to describe study participants. The ACL is protected by copyright law, published by Consulting Psychologists Press, and distributed by Mind Garden, Inc.\n\nThe ACL was first developed in the early days of the Institute of Personality Assessment and Research at the University of California, Berkeley. It has been used since 1952 by many psychologists worldwide and is one of the 100 most frequently used and cited tests in psychology.\n\n\"The ACL offers several advantages. It is self-administering, may be completed in 10 to 15 minutes, arouses little resistance or anxiety, and has proved useful in studies of highly effective persons in occupations other than politics such as architecture, mathematics, law, medicine, and management.\n\n\"Further, as a multidimensional instrument, which taps several domains of personality, the ACL affords an appraisal of positive as well as negative factors in human behavior, thus avoiding the frequently found preoccupation with psychopathological bases of political activity. Additionally, as an established standardized, and quantitative assessment procedure, the ACL reduces the problems of reliability and comparability entailed in studies relying on interviews or on ad hoc, limited use or abbreviated personality measures” (Constantini & Craik, 1980, p. 645).\n\n\"We propose that the Gough-Heilbrun Adjective Check List is another broad-range instrument with considerable promise as a general cross-cultural research tool. The argument is based on: the nature of the task, which seems appropriate in many cultural settings; the versatility of the method in addressing a variety of research questions; the fact that the instrument has been translated into many different languages; and the successful use of the method in recent cross-cultural studies\" (Williams & Best, 1983, p. 164).\n\nThe ACL scales were realigned in 2012 by Rob Devine in consultation with Gough to highlight how collections of characteristics, skills, and competencies impact success at work. This realignment, called Success Factors at Work, uses 30 of the original 37 ACL scales and assigns each to one of six Work Success Factors which have proven to be central and important to success at work. The six Work Success Factors are:\n\nThe ACL consists of 37 scales within 5 categories: modus operandi (4 scales), need (15 scales), topical (9 scales), transactional analysis (5 scales), and origence-intellectence (4 scales).\n\nThe Modus Operandi Scales assess ways in which the individual approached the task of describing themselves (or someone else).\n\nThe Need Scales assess an individual's psychological needs or wants. These were identified as important in Henry A. Murray's Need-Press Theory of Personality.\n\nThe Topical Scales assess a diverse set of attributes, potentialities, and role characteristics.\n\nThe Transactional Analysis Scales - an Egogram - assess components of ego functioning. These were identified as important by Eric Berne's Transactional Analysis theory of personality.\n\nThe Origence-Intellectence Scales assess the balance between preferences for affective-emotional and rational-realistic models of functioning. These were identified as important by George S. Welsh's creativity and intelligence research.\n"}
{"id": "28146943", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28146943", "title": "Alexander Anderson (botanist)", "text": "Alexander Anderson (botanist)\n\nAlexander Anderson (1748 in Aberdeen, Scotland – 1811 on St. Vincent Island, Caribbean) was a Scottish surgeon and botanist.\n\nAnderson studied at Edinburgh University. Fellow Aberdonian William Forsyth briefly employed him at the Chelsea Physic Garden in London, prior to Anderson's emigration to New York in 1774, where he stayed with his brother John, a printer.\n\nHe was appointed in 1785 superintendent of the government botanic garden at St. Vincent, where he showed much activity. He was a correspondent of Sir Joseph Banks, through whom he contributed to the Royal Society in 1789 an account of a bituminous lake on St. Vincent, which was afterwards published in the \"Philosophical Transactions\" for that year.\n\nIn January 1791 he was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society of Edinburgh, proposed by Daniel Rutherford, John Walker and William Wright. In the same year he went into Guiana on a botanising expedition; the plants he obtained being sent to Banks, are now in the herbarium of the British Museum.\n\nThe Society of Arts voted him a silver medal in 1798 for a paper upon the plants in the garden at St. Vincent. He contemplated the production of a flora of the Caribbean islands, some sheets of which he sent to Banks; but this project was never carried out. He resigned his post in July 1811, and died on 8 September in the same year (the Royal Society of Edinburgh gives his date of death as 10 May 1811).\n\nAnderson was succeeded as superintendent by his friend, the surgeon William Lochhead.\n"}
{"id": "32509230", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32509230", "title": "Alimineti Madhava Reddy Project", "text": "Alimineti Madhava Reddy Project\n\nAlimineti Madhava Reddy Project earlier known as Srisailam Left Bank Canal is an irrigation project located in Nalgonda district in Telangana, India.\n\nThis Project has two following alternatives\n\nWater is fed from the Puttamgandi foreshore pump house located at in to the nearby Puttamgandi tank from Nagarjuna Sagar reservoir. The pump house has ultimate capacity of five pumps each of 600 cusecs pumping capacity. Water is supplied from the Puttamgandi tank by gravity to the entire irrigated area of the project via balancing reservoir called Akkampalli reservoir with 1.5 tmcft storage capacity. From Akkampalli reservoir, water is also pumped to the Hyderabad city for its water needs.\n\nTo eliminate the need of expensive water pumping and facilitate water flow by gravity to the Akkampalli reservoir, it is envisaged to bring water from Srisailam reservoir to the plains of Nalgonda through two tunnels of a total length of . This scheme is known as Srisailam Left Bank Canal (SLBC) project.\n\nPuttamgandi tank water storage can be enhanced manyfolds by enlarging its water area and water depth by constructing earth bunds taking advantage of nearby continuous hillocks on three sides of the tank. The enhanced water storage capacity would serve as 100% reliable and assured water source for water needs of Hyderabad city without depending on water from Srisailam and Nagarjuna Sagar reservoirs during drought years.\n"}
{"id": "40961594", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40961594", "title": "Arnold Maran", "text": "Arnold Maran\n\nArnold George Dominic Maran (16 June 1937 – 10 December 2017) was a Scottish surgeon and writer, of Italian descent. He was President of the Royal College of Surgeons of Edinburgh from 1997 to 2000, and has been described as \"one of the world's leading medical experts on the voice\".\n\nHe was Professor of Otolaryngology at the University of Edinburgh from 1988 to 2000. In 1997 he was elected President of the Royal College of Surgeons of Edinburgh and in 2004 was awarded an honorary degree of D.Sc. by the University of Hong Kong.\n\nThe textbook \"Head and Neck Surgery\" which he co-authored with Philip Stell in 1972 (Heinemann, ) was republished in 2012 as \"Stell & Maran's Textbook of Head and Neck Surgery and Oncology, Fifth Edition\" by John Watkinson and Ralph W Gilbert (CRC Press; ).\n\nHe also wrote books on the physiology of the human voice (\"The Voice Doctor: The Story of Singing\", 2006, Book Guild: ); the Sicilian Mafia (\"Mafia: Inside the Dark Heart\", 2008, Mainstream: ), drawing on an incident involving his great uncles; and an unusual golf game (\"Golf at the North Pole: The Arctic and the Ancient Game\", 2013, Upfront: ).\n\nArnold Maran died on 10 December 2017, aged 80.\n"}
{"id": "43772633", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43772633", "title": "Back labor", "text": "Back labor\n\nBack labor (less commonly called posterior labor) is a term referring to sensations of pain or discomfort that occur in the lower back, just above the tailbone, to a mother during childbirth.\n\nBack labor may be noted when the baby is face up in the birth canal (occiput posterior), and not face down, so that the back of the baby's skull (occiput) is pushed against the mother's sacrum. But back labor can also occur when the baby is not in that position. The discomfort is often noted to be intensely painful, and may not completely abate between contractions. Whether back labor will occur cannot be predicted in advance. Reports of how many mothers experience back labor vary, though estimates in the range of 30% are common.\n\nActions that have been suggested to ameliorate back labor include physical activity, changing positions, back rubbing, water massage, application of hot or cold to the lower back, use of a birthing ball and medication including an epidural. Some research has suggested that injecting sterile water into the lower back may provide pain relief, but there is no consensus that it actually helps.\n\n"}
{"id": "23589593", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23589593", "title": "Backgrounding", "text": "Backgrounding\n\nBackgrounding is an intermediate stage sometimes used in cattle production which begins after weaning and ends upon placement in a feedlot. Background feeding relies more heavily on forage (e.g., pasture, hay) in combination with grains to increase a calf’s weight by several hundred pounds and to build up immunity to diseases before it enters a feedlot. Some cattle operations specialize in backgrounding. \n"}
{"id": "43943599", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43943599", "title": "Barrier nursing", "text": "Barrier nursing\n\nBarrier nursing is a largely archaic term for a set of stringent infection control techniques used in nursing. The aim of barrier nursing is to protect medical staff against infection by patients and also protect patients with highly infectious diseases from spreading their pathogens to other non-infected people.\n\nBarrier nursing was created as a means to maximize isolation care. Since it is impossible to isolate a patient from society and medical staff while still providing care, there are often compromises made when it comes to treating infectious patients. Barrier nursing is a method to regulate and minimize the number and severity of compromises being made in isolation care, while also preventing the disease from spreading.\n\nBarrier nursing started off as a term used by the Centre for Disease Control (CDC) to describe early infection control methods in the late 1800s. From the mid-1900s to early 2000s, 15 new terms had emerged and were also being used to describe infection control. The variety of terms that described infection care led to a misunderstanding of practice recommendations and eventual low adherence to isolation precautions; this eventually forced the CDC to combine all 15 terms into one term called isolation. Nowadays barrier nursing is becoming a less commonly used term and is not even recognized by most reputable databases or online scientific journals. Yet when it is seldom used, it relates mostly to circumstantial protocols for situations regarding isolation health care. The lack of constant use of the term is why there are no systematically reviewed articles on the topic and also why most of the sources that include the topic are from the late 1900s.\n\nSimple barrier nursing is used when an infectious agent is suspected within a patient and standard precautions aren't working. Simple barrier nursing consists of utilizing sterile: gloves, masks, gowns, head-covers and eye protection. Nurses also wear Personalized protective equipment(PPE) to protect their bodies from infectious agents. Simple barrier nursing is often used for marrow transplants, human Lassa virus transmission, viral hemorrhagic fever and other virulent diseases.\n\nStrict barrier nursing, which is also known as \"rigid barrier nursing\", is used for the rarer and more specific deadly viruses and infections: smallpox, Ebola and rabies. Strict barrier nursing is a lot more demanding in terms of safety measure requirements because of the catastrophic effects that can occur if the disease or virus is allowed through the barrier. If patients cannot be isolated from one another completely, they have to at least be isolated from the rest of the patients within the hospital. In strict barrier nursing the patients and staff are usually isolated from the common population, and every attempt is made to establish a barrier between the inside and outside of the ward. The staff going on duty have to remove all outer clothing, pass through an airlock and put on a new set of PPE. When a staff member is going off duty, they are required to take a thorough shower and leave everything that was taken into the room to be disinfected or destroyed. While strict barrier nursing methods cannot always be enforced, especially in lower income areas and countries, any modifications made must be based on sound principles. Since infection can be spread through fomites, clothes or oxygen, all efforts must be made to limit the spread of these vessels. The doctor's or nurse's hands must be thoroughly washed after touching anything in the cubicle. Taps and door-handles should be elbow- or foot-operated. Hands should be washed in the cubicle and dried outside to eliminate contamination from paper or cloth towels. In addition, antiseptic hand-cream, dispensed from a foot-operated wall container would also serve as an additional precaution.\n\n\n\"Although participants understood the importance for Personalized Protective equipment, they still found that its use increased their fear and sense of stigma.\" \n\"Many researchers have indicated that healthcare professionals may regard a patient in source isolation differently from others. In studies regarding barrier nursing of patients with Methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus , medical staff admitted to spending less time with patients in source isolation.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "22016518", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22016518", "title": "Burpee (exercise)", "text": "Burpee (exercise)\n\nThe burpee, or squat thrust, is a full body exercise used in strength training and as an aerobic exercise. The basic movement is performed in four steps and known as a \"four-count burpee\":\nThe exercise was named in the 1930s for American physiologist Royal H. Burpee, who developed the \"burpee test\". He earned a Ph.D. in applied physiology from Teachers College, Columbia University in 1940 and created the \"burpee\" exercise as part of his Ph.D. thesis as a quick and simple way to assess fitness. The exercise was popularized when the United States Armed Services adopted it as a way to assess the fitness level of recruits when the US entered World War II. Consisting of a series of the exercises performed in rapid succession, the test was meant to be a quick measure of agility, coordination, and strength.\n\nThe way to perform a burpee as originally intended has progressed since the 1930s. The up phase of the burpee used to be with the feet landing between the hands while still grounded, which creates unnecessary pressure on the lower back. It's now more common to land the feet on the outside of the hands.\n\nThe burpee is sometimes confused with a sprawl. A sprawl is similar to the burpee with the main difference being that the hips are thrust towards the ground in the plank position.\n\n\nAt 4 pm on May 17, 2014, in Greenwood, SC, Cameron Dorn broke two burpee world records: the most burpees performed in 12 hours with 5,657 and the most burpees completed in 24 hours with 10,105.\n\nAt 6 am on October 21, 2013, in Portland, OR, Lloyd Weema broke the burpee world record: the most chest to ground burpees performed in 72 hours with 9,480.\n\nOn July 23, 2018, in Hobart, Tasmania, Charlie Gard achieved a record 851 burpees in one hour.\n\n"}
{"id": "32592019", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32592019", "title": "Campaign for John Hunt", "text": "Campaign for John Hunt\n\nJohn Hunt (born 16 July 1981) is an Irish citizen who was involuntarily detained as a psychiatric patient. The conditions of Hunt's detention have been the subject of a sustained campaign by his former partner and mother of his child Gráinne Humphrys. He was committed as an involuntary psychiatric patient in 2005 and was detained at a secure psychiatric unit in Cork until August 2011 when he was transferred to the Central Mental Hospital, Dundrum, Dublin. Until 2010 he was not granted leave for any temporary release from the Cork facility to visit his family. As a result of the campaign of his former partner that year the Cork hospital allowed Hunt six hours unsupervised leave every two weeks. However, following a violent altercation with a psychiatric nurse this leave was rescinded and Hunt was transferred to the main Irish forensic psychiatric unit in Dundrum.\n\nAs of 2013, Humphrys is still being quoted in the Irish press about Hunt's apparently ongoing psychiatric detention: \"I am very critical about how his admission was dealt with – it was with the use of force and coercion. He didn’t want to take the medication at the time of his admission and I thought, fair enough. I couldn’t understand why there was not a better method of communication that we could use with him, like open dialogue.\"\n\nAt the time of Hunt's birth, his family lived in the small, coastal town of Greystones in Wicklow, Ireland. His father was a violent alcoholic and his mother had few supports in raising her children. His four-year-old brother drowned when he was eleven years old. Thereafter, Hunt began getting into fights and taking drugs. Humphrys attributes these behaviours to his history of trauma and low self-esteem. His first breakdown occurred shortly after the end of his relationship with his first long-term girlfriend. Humphrys has expressed the view in relation to Hunt's history that, 'trauma and loss, amongst other factors, form the bedrock of John’s problems — his so-called attachment disorder and paranoid schizophrenia.' \n\nJohn Hunt was a resident of Cork, Ireland. He experienced a breakdown while his then partner, Gráinne Humphrys, was pregnant with their child, Joshua. Frightened for his safety, Hunt's mother, Marion Hunt, instigated committal proceedings against her son. As he was deemed a danger to himself, this led to his involuntary committal in 2006 at the Carrig Mór Centre, a Psychiatric Intensive Care Unit (PICU) in Shanakiel, Cork. The Carraig Mór Centre is a two-storey building that was formerly part of the now defunct Our Lady's Hospital (Cork District Mental Hospital). Hunt was under the management of a forensic psychiatric team in an 18-bed unit for involuntary patients deemed to have behavioural difficulties arising from their mental condition. Subsequent to his admission, he received a variety of diagnoses including drug-induced psychosis, bipolar disorder and schizophrenia. Family visits at Carraig Mór were carried out in a small CCTV-monitored room at the facility that has been described as \"cramped\" and \"uninviting\". \n\nSince his committal Hunt has been forcibly medicated with a diverse range of psychoactive drugs including the typical antipsychotics zuclopenthixol and chlorpromazine, the atypical antipsychotic amisulpride, benzodiazepines and sleeping tablets. They have had various adverse side effects and Humphrys expressed the view that he was \"completely over-medicated\". The hospital authorities at Carraig Mór considered Hunt a 'chronic' patient and 'suitable' for long-term hospitalisation.\n\nIn 2007 Humphrys began a campaign seeking to end 'The Incarceration of John'. The Irish Examiner has noted that she gained substantial attention to his case, powerfully portraying him as a lost soul imprisoned against his will and cut off from his family. \n\nIn the summer of 2010 former Green Party Senator, Dan Boyle, visited Hunt at the Carraig Mór facility. Senator Boyle acknowledged that Hunt was 'physically cared for' but expressed concern 'about the overriding culture of excessive medication there'. He also noted that Hunt 'was only allowed minimum contact with the outside world' and that he did not have access to a rehabilitation programme. Humphrys argues that Hunt's treatment at the facility damaged him mentally and physically and she has characterised the mental health system as punitive and fostering dependency in patients. She has also alleged that her former partner suffered in the facility as he has been perceived as non-compliant.\n\nThree days after Senator Boyle's visit to Hunt he called for a debate in the Seanad on 'the culture of mental health and psychiatric care services' in Ireland. In his address Senator Boyle referred to his visit to the Cork psychiatric hospital and the fact that Hunt had only seen his son outside of that institution once in the previous four years.\n\nLater in 2010, following the campaign's expanded media presence and Senator Boyle's visit to Carraig Mór, Hunt was granted day release without supervision. Hunt was allowed a six-hour pass every two weeks and, according to Humphrys, this reconnection with the world outside of the secure psychiatric hospital gave him 'new hope for his future'. Reflecting on Hunt's experience of the mental health system as a patient and her own as the partner and advocate of a psychiatric patient, Humphrys wrote to the medical authorities of the Carraig Mór Centre in early 2011 outlining her grievances, which was reproduced in the press.\n\nHunt's fortnightly passes were rescinded following an incident in June 2011 when he struck a male member of staff. The authorities at the Carraig Mór Centre also barred all visits to Hunt by non-family members. The context and causes of the incident, surrounding an attempted phonecall to his son, and whether it was properly investigated, were highlighted and contested by his family. The authorities at Carraig Mór reported the incident to the Gardaí (the Irish police force) and also sent a report to the Mental Health Commission, who directed that the incident should be addressed by a Mental Health Tribunal. His family and solicitor were not allowed to attend and were not consulted. The tribunal ruled that Hunt should be transferred to the Central Mental Hospital, Dundrum, the main forensic psychiatric facility in Ireland. \n\nThe Irish Health Service Executive has responded that it is the goal of the mental health services to “work in a collaborative way with patients and their families to ensure the best outcome possible for people who need mental health services”. They also stated that, “All patients detained under the Mental Health Act have access to independent legal advice. Their detention under the mental health act is reviewed at regular intervals by an independent mental health review tribunal. This tribunal has the power to end the patient’s detention\".\n\nPrior to his transfer Humphreys stated that she and Hunt's family were apprehensive about the plan to relocate him but that they remained hopeful that better rehabilitative services would be available to him in Dundrum than were accessible at Carraig Mór; she said Hunt was very worried about it but also it may be something new, though he was concerned he would never be released. John McCarthy, a mental health campaigner and the founder of Mad Pride Ireland, likened the facilities of John's detention as a form of \"jail\" where patients were held with \"no judge, jury or release date\".\n\n"}
{"id": "56086050", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56086050", "title": "Cannabis in Mauritania", "text": "Cannabis in Mauritania\n\nCannabis in Mauritania is illegal, but the country serves as a major transit point for Moroccan cannabis en route to Europe.\n\nIn Mauritania, it is illegal to grow, sell, possess, or use cannabis. In 1977, hearings before the US House stated that the Mauritanian Drug Enforcement Administration lacked the staff and training to adequately deal with the cannabis issue in the country. Officials presenting the hearings recommended that the country adopt harsher laws on cannabis.\n\nMauritania is part of a cannabis-trafficking route extending from Morocco through Mauritania and on to Mali, then overland to Egypt and eventually to Europe. Approximately one-third of Moroccan cannabis transits this Sahel route. Morocco chooses to go through Mauritania to export its cannabis to avoid Algerian soils, the two countries being in a feud since the Western Sahara issue.\n\nIn 2011, Mauritania President Mohamed Ould Abdel Aziz stirred a controversy when he reduced the sentence of 5 cocaine smugglers, and a few months later the court released 30 convicted smugglers. In 2012, a smuggling network was dismantled, and it was discovered that it was using a special permit to cross the border delivered by the former head of police of Mauritania.\n\nIn April 2015, Mohamed Ould Abdel Aziz highlighted in a report on Western Sahara submitted to the UN Security Council by Ban Ki-moon that «considerable quantity of cannabis resin» goes from Morocco to eastern Africa through Mauritania. When journalists of \"Al-Bayan\" elaborated on this idea in an article, it caused a diplomatic turmoil, and the chief adviser in the Algerian embassy in Nouakchott was expelled on the basis that Algeria was the source of those «lies and false allegations».\n\nA 2009 UN report on drug trafficking still considered that Mauritania lacked to resources to address its drug issues, and observed that very few drug seizures had been recorded in the country.\n\nIn January 2012, the Mauritanian authorities seized 2 tons of cannabis in Nouadhibou, and 3.6 tons in Timbedra in May 2012.\n\nIn February 2016, the Mauritanian justice charged and jailed 11 people involved in a seizure of 1.3 tons of cannabis. The news report stated that a son of former president Mohamed Khouna Ould Haidalla was involved in the traffick.\n\nIn February 2017, the Moroccan authorities seized 3.13 tons of cannabis in a truck at the Guerguarate crossing point between Morocco and Mauritania. A month later, at the same Guerguarate crossing point, the Moroccan authorities seized 7.42 tons of cannabis in a truck heading to Mauritania.\n\nA 1996 report notes that small cannabis plots, irrigated by a dam on the Senegal river, have been found in Southern Mauritania.\n"}
{"id": "40703649", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40703649", "title": "Carctol", "text": "Carctol\n\nCarctol is an ineffective cancer treatment made by mixing eight Indian herbs.\n\nCarctol has been aggressively marketed as being able to treat cancer and reduce the side-effects of chemotherapy. However, there is no medical evidence that it has any benefits whatsoever for people with cancer.\n\nCarctol is a herbal dietary supplement marketed with claims it is based on traditional ayurvedic medicine. Its ingredients include \"Hemidesmus indicus\", \"Tribulus terrestris\", \"Piper cubeba\", \"Ammani vesicatoria\", \"Lepidium sativum\", \"Blepharis edulis\", \"Smilax china\", and \"Rheum emodi\".\n\nIt was first promoted in 1968 by Nandlal Tiwari. In 2009, Edzard Ernst wrote that it was still promoted in the United Kingdom; public relations companies hired by its sellers had garnered it wide coverage on the web and, according to the British Medical Journal, in the media generally.\n\nCancer Research UK say of Carctol, \"available scientific evidence does not support its use for the treatment of cancer in humans\". Edzard Ernst has written \"the claim that Carctol is of any benefit to cancer patients is not supported by scientific evidence\".\n\nHarriet A. Hall includes Carctol among the biologically-based remedies promoted by naturopaths. Hall laments that frauds and quacks persistently try to take advantage of the vulnerability of cancer patients.\n\n"}
{"id": "10333114", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10333114", "title": "Childhood trauma", "text": "Childhood trauma\n\nChildhood trauma has profound psychological, physiological, and sociological impacts and can have negative, lasting effects on health and well-being. Referred to in academic literature as adverse childhood experiences (ACEs), childhood trauma ranges from sexual abuse to neglect to living in a household where a parent or sibling is treated violently or there is a parent with a mental illness. Kaiser Permanente and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention's 1998 study on adverse childhood experiences determined that traumatic experiences during childhood are a root cause of many social, emotional, and cognitive impairments that lead to increased risk of unhealthy behaviors, risk of violence or re-victimization, chronic health conditions, low life potential and premature mortality. As the number of adverse experiences increases, the risk of problems from childhood through adulthood also rises. Nearly 30 years of study following the initial study has confirmed this. Many states, health providers, and other groups now routinely screen parents and children for ACEs.\n\nTraumatic experiences during childhood causes stress that increases an individual’s allostatic load and thus affects the immune system, nervous system, and endocrine system. Childhood trauma is often associated with adverse health outcomes including depression, hypertension, autoimmune diseases, lung cancer, and premature mortality. Effects of childhood trauma on brain development includes a negative impact on emotional regulation and impairment of development of social skills. Research has shown that children raised in traumatic or risky family environments tend to have excessive internalizing (e.g., social withdrawal, anxiety) or externalizing (e.g., aggressive behavior), and suicidal behavior. Recent research has found that physical and sexual abuse are associated with mood and anxiety disorders in adulthood, while personality disorders and schizophrenia are linked with emotional abuse as adults.\n\nChildhood trauma can increase the risk of mental disorders including posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD), attachment issues, depression, and substance abuse. Sensitive and critical stages of child development can result in altered neurological functioning, adaptive to a malevolent environment but difficult for more benign environments.\n\nChild abuse can leave tracks, not only physically and emotionally, but also in the form of \"epigenetic marks\" on a child's genes. Although these epigenetic marks do not cause mutations in the DNA itself, the chemical modifications-including DNA methylation-change gene expression by silencing (or activating) genes. This can alter fundamental biological processes and adversely affect health outcomes throughout life. A 2013 study found that people who had experienced childhood trauma had different neuropathology than people with PTSD from trauma experienced after childhood. Another recent study in rhesus macaques showed that DNA methylation changes related to early-life adversity persisted into adulthood.\n\nThe social and economic costs of child abuse and neglect are difficult to calculate. Some costs are straightforward and directly related to maltreatment, such as hospital costs for medical treatment of injuries sustained as a result of physical abuse and foster care costs resulting from the removal of children when they cannot remain safely with their families. Other costs, less directly tied to the incidence of abuse, include lower academic achievement, adult criminality, and lifelong mental health problems. Both direct and indirect costs impact society and the economy.\n\nWe can pass our epigenetic marks including de-myelinated neurons to our children. The effects of trauma can be transferred from one generation of childhood trauma survivors to subsequent generations of offsprings. This is known as transgenerational trauma or intergenerational trauma, and can manifest in parenting behaviors as well as epigenetically. Exposure to childhood trauma, along with environmental stress, can also cause alterations in genes and gene expressions. A growing body of literature suggests that children's experiences of trauma and abuse within close relationships not only jeopardize their well-being in childhood, but can also have long-lasting consequences that extend well into adulthood. These long-lasting consequences can include emotion regulation issues, which can then be passed onto subsequent generations through child-parent interactions and learned behaviors. (see also behavioral epigenetics, epigenetics, historical trauma, and cycle of violence)\n\nExposure to maltreatment in childhood significantly predicts a variety of negative outcomes in adulthood. However, not all children who are exposed to a potentially traumatic event develop subsequent struggles with mental or physical health. Therefore, there are factors that reduce the impact of potentially traumatic events and protect an individual from developing mental health problems after exposure to a potentially traumatic event. These are called resiliency factors. \n\nResearch regarding children who showed adaptive development while facing adversity began in the 1970s and continues to this day. Resilience is defined as “the process of, capacity for, or outcome of successful adaptation despite challenging or threatening circumstances.\" The concept of resilience stems from research that showed experiencing positive emotions had a restorative and preventive effect on the experience of negative emotions more broadly with regards to physical and psychological wellbeing in general and more specifically with reactions to trauma. This line of research has contributed to the development of interventions that focus on promoting resilience as opposed to focusing on deficits in an individual who has experienced a traumatic event. Resilience has been found to decrease risk of suicide, depression, anxiety and other mental health struggles associated with exposure to trauma in childhood.\n\nWhen an individual who is high in resilience experiences a potentially traumatic event, their relative level of functioning does not significantly deviate from the level of functioning they exhibited prior to exposure to a potentially traumatic event. Furthermore, that same individual may recover more quickly and successfully from a potentially traumatic experience than an individual who could be said to be less resilient. In children, level of functioning is operationalized as the child continuing to behave in a manner that is considered developmentally appropriate for a child of that age. Level of functioning is also measured by the presence of mental health disorders such as depression, anxiety, posttraumatic stress disorder, and so on.\n\nFactors that affect resilience include cultural factors like socio-economic status, such that having more resources at one’s disposal usually equates to more resilience to trauma. Furthermore, the severity and duration of the potentially traumatic experience affect the likelihood of experiencing negative outcomes as a result of childhood trauma. One factor that does not affect resilience is gender, with both males and females being equally sensitive to risk and protective factors. Cognitive ability is also not a predictor of resilience.\n\nAttachment has been shown to be one of the most important factors to consider when it comes to evaluating the relative resilience of an individual. Children with secure attachments to an adult with effective coping strategies were most likely to endure adverse childhood experiences (ACEs) in an adaptive manner. Secure attachments throughout the lifespan (including in adolescence and adulthood) appear to be equally important in fostering and maintaining resilience. Secure attachment to one’s peers throughout adolescence is a particularly strong predictor of resilience. Within the context of abuse, it is thought that these secure attachments decrease the extent to which children who are abused perceive others as being untrustworthy. In other words, while some children who are abused might begin to view other people as being unsafe and unable to be trusted, children who are able to develop and maintain healthy relationships are less likely to hold these views. Children who experience trauma but also experience healthy attachment with multiple groups of people (in essence, adults, peers, romantic partners, etc.) throughout childhood, adolescence, and adulthood are particularly resilient.\n\nPersonality also affects the development (or lack of development) of adult psychopathology as a result of childhood abuse. Individuals who scored low in neuroticism exhibit fewer negative outcomes, such as psychopathology, criminal activity, and poor physical health, after exposure to a potentially traumatic event. Furthermore, individuals with higher scores on openness to experience, conscientiousness, and extraversion have been found to be more resilient to the effects of childhood trauma.\n\nOne of the most common misconceptions about resilience is that individuals who show resilience are somehow special or extraordinary in some way. Successful adaptation, or resilience, is quite common among children. This is due in part to the naturally adaptive nature of childhood development. Therefore, resilience is enhanced by protecting against factors that might undermine a child's inborn resilience. Studies suggest that resiliency can be enhanced by providing children who have been exposed to trauma with environments in which they feel safe and are able to securely attach to a healthy adult. Therefore, interventions that promote strong parent-child bonds are particularly effective at buffering against the potential negative effects of trauma.\n\nFurthermore, researchers of resilience argue that successful adaptation is not merely an end result but rather a developmental process that is ongoing throughout a person’s lifetime. Thus, successful promotion of resilience must also be ongoing throughout a person’s lifespan.\n\nTrauma affects all children differently (see Stress in early childhood). Some children who experience trauma develop significant and long-lasting problems, while others may have minimal symptoms and recover more quickly. Studies have found that despite the broad impacts of trauma, children can and do recover, and that trauma-informed care and interventions produce better outcomes than “treatment as usual”. Trauma-informed care is defined as offering services or support in a way that addresses the special needs of people who have experienced trauma.\n\nMedical Trauma, sometimes called \"pediatric medical traumatic stress\" refers to a set of psychological and physiological responses of children and their families to pain, injury, serious illness, medical procedures, and invasive or frightening treatment experiences. Medical trauma may occur as a response to a single or multiple medical events.\n\nSeparation trauma is a disruption in an attachment relationship that disrupts neurological development and can lead to death. Chronic separation from a caregiver can be extremely traumatic to a child.\n"}
{"id": "568631", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=568631", "title": "Daydream", "text": "Daydream\n\nDaydreaming is a short-term detachment from one's immediate surroundings, during which a person's contact with reality is blurred and partially substituted by a visionary fantasy, especially one of happy, pleasant thoughts, hopes or ambitions, imagined as coming to pass, and experienced while awake. \n\nThere are many types of daydreams, and there is no consistent definition amongst psychologists, however the characteristic that is common to all forms of daydreaming meets the criteria for mild dissociation.\n\nNegative aspects of daydreaming were stressed after human work became dictated by the motion of the tool. As craft production was largely replaced by assembly line that did not allow for any creativity, no place was left for positive aspects of daydreaming. It not only became associated with laziness, but also with danger.\n\nFor example, in the late 19th century, Toni Nelson argued that some daydreams with grandiose fantasies are self-gratifying attempts at \"wish fulfillment\". Still in the 1950s, some educational psychologists warned parents not to let their children daydream, for fear that the children may be sucked into \"neurosis and even psychosis\".\n\nFreudian psychology interpreted daydreaming as expression of the repressed instincts similarly to those revealing themselves in nighttime dreams. Like nighttime dreams, daydreams, also, are an example of wish-fulfilment (based on infantile experiences), and are allowed to surface because of relaxed censorship. He pointed out that, in contrast to nighttime dreams, which are often confusing and incoherent, there seems to be a process of \"secondary revision\" in fantasies that makes them more lucid, like daydreaming. The state of daydreaming is a kind of liminal state between waking (with the ability to think rationally and logically) and sleeping. They stand in much the same relation to the childhood memories from which they are derived as do some of the Baroque palaces of Rome to the ancient ruins whose pavements and columns have provided the material for the more recent structures.\n\nIn the late 1960s, cognitive psychologists Jerome L. Singer of Yale University and John S. Antrobus of the City College of New York, created a daydream questionnaire. The questionnaire, called the Imaginal Processes Inventory (IPI), has been used to investigate daydreams. Psychologists Leonard Giambra and George Huba used the IPI and found that daydreamers' imaginary images vary in three ways: how vivid or enjoyable the daydreams are, how many guilt- or fear-filled daydreams they have, and how \"deeply\" into the daydream people go.\nHumanistic psychology on other hand, found numerous examples of people in creative or artistic careers, such as composers, novelists and filmmakers, developing new ideas through daydreaming. Similarly, research scientists and mathematicians have developed new ideas by daydreaming about their subject areas.\n\nEric Klinger's research in the 1980s showed that most daydreams are about ordinary, everyday events and help to remind us of mundane tasks. Klinger's research also showed that over 75% of workers in \"boring jobs\", such as lifeguards and truck drivers, use vivid daydreams to \"ease the boredom\" of their routine tasks. Klinger found that fewer than 5% of the workers' daydreams involved explicitly sexual thoughts and that violent daydreams were also uncommon.\n\nIsraeli high school students who scored high on the Daydreaming Scale of the IPI had more empathy than students who scored low. Some psychologists use the mental imagery created during their clients' daydreaming to help gain insight into their mental state and make diagnoses.\n\nOther recent research has also shown that daydreaming, much like nighttime dreaming, is a time when the brain consolidates learning. Daydreaming may also help people to sort through problems and achieve success. Research with fMRI shows that brain areas associated with complex problem-solving become activated during daydreaming episodes.\n\nResearch by Harvard psychologist Deirdre Barrett has found that people who experience vivid dream-like mental images reserve the word for these, whereas many other people when they talk about \"daydreaming\" refer to milder imagery, realistic future planning, review of past memories, or just \"spacing out\".\n\n"}
{"id": "32568039", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32568039", "title": "Dummugudem Lift Irrigation Scheme", "text": "Dummugudem Lift Irrigation Scheme\n\nDummugudem lift irrigation projects are lift irrigation schemes under execution which are located near Dummugudem, Khammam district in Telangana, India. There are three lift irrigation schemes by names Rajiv Dummugudem lift irrigation scheme, Indirasagar Rudrammakota Dummugudem lift irrigation scheme and Dummugudem to Sagar tail pond canal project. Rajiv Dummugudem lift irrigation scheme starting at is planned to supply irrigation water for 200,000 acres in Khammam and Warangal districts drawing Godavari River water from the Dummugudem pond. Indira Dummugudem lift irrigation scheme starting at is planned to supply irrigation water for 200,000 acres in Khammam, Krishna and West Godavari districts drawing Godavari River water from the back waters of Polavaram reservoir.\nDummugudem weir across the Godavari River was constructed nearly 150 years back by the famous British India engineer Sir Arthur Cotton who also constructed Dowleswaram and Prakasam barrages. The purpose of this weir was not for diverting the river water into canals but to use as cross over bridge during lean flow season. This weir has lost its relevance after construction of all weather road bridge near Bhadrachalam town to cross the river. A 24 MW hydroelectric station is constructed to use the level drop available across the Dummugudem weir.\n\nThis project is also called Dummugudem to Sagar tail pond lift canal project. The canal starts from Dummugudem pond at to Nagarjuna Sagar tail pond located across the Krishna River. This lift canal is an inter river basin transfer link by feeding Godavari river water from the Dummugudem pond to Krishna river basin to the extent of 165 tmcft. The total length of the canal is 244 km and the capacity of the canal is 22,000 cusecs to feed 165 tmcft water in three months duration of the monsoon season. Presently, the canal is planned to terminate at by feeding the water into the Halia river to reach the downstream Nagarjuna Sagar tail pond. The required pumping head is 128 meters for the elevation difference of 30 meters between Dummugudem pond (45 MSL) and Nagarjuna Sagar tail pond (75 MSL). Dummugudem pond to Nagarjuna Sagar tail pond link canal is entirely located in Telangana State and needs to be routed through high lands which necessitated more pumping head.\n\nIf this canal were to be terminated in to deep cut portion of Nagarjuna Sagar left canal near , water can reach by gravity to the Nagarjuna Sagar reservoir when its water level is at minimum draw down level of MSL. It is more economical and purposeful to install a pump house drawing water from the deep cut portion of the canal to pump water up to Nagarjuna Sagar full reservoir level at MSL with nearly 27 meters lift. Thus it is a viable project by eliminating the need of lifting water by 80 meters from tail pond to the Nagarjuna Sagar reservoir. This saved pumping head can be used to pump water from the Nagarjuna Sagar reservoir to Srisailam reservoir for supplying irrigation water to Kalwakurthi lift irrigation Scheme, Srisailam left bank canal, Dindi lift irrigation scheme, Palamuru lift canal, Nettampadu lift, Bhima lift, etc located in Telangana with 100% water dependability for all the projects drawing water from the Krishna river.\n\nAn alternative link canal to Nagarjuna Sagar tail pond from Polavaram dam is also economically feasible to transfer Godavari water. This link canal passes entirely through the coastal Andhra region only.\n\n"}
{"id": "28995031", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28995031", "title": "Fit-and-proper-person test", "text": "Fit-and-proper-person test\n\nThe fit-and-proper-person test or director's test is a test aiming to prevent corrupt or untrustworthy people from serving on the board of certain organizations. First introduced in 2004 for owners and directors of major British football clubs, since November 2014 it also applies to the National Health Service in England for board members of NHS Trusts under the Health and Social Care Act 2008 (Regulated Activities) Regulations 2014.\n\nDirectors of NHS Trusts can be deemed unfit if they have been involved in “serious misconduct or mismanagement”. The test is supervised by the Care Quality Commission but decisions are made by individual trusts.\n\nA Trust must be satisfied that its directors are:\n\nA trust must not “appoint or have in place” a director who has been responsible for, privy to, contributed to or facilitated any serious misconduct or mismanagement (whether unlawful or not) in the course of carrying on a regulated activity.\n\nThe CQC received referrals from campaigners and whistleblowers in January 2015 which alleged that more than 20 current and former NHS chief executives, medical directors and senior board level executives were unfit for their roles.\n\nThe test, introduced in 2004, is mandated by the Premier League, the Football League, the National League and the Scottish Premier League. Anybody who takes over a club, runs one, or owns over 30% of its shares must be assessed. The first director known to have failed the test was Dennis Coleman, director of Rotherham United when they went into administration in 2006 and 2008. He claimed:\n\"I came in and in effect saved the club. It is totally unfair for me to be disqualified.\"\n\nIn November 2009, Stephen Vaughan, then owner of Chester City, became the first owner to fail the test, after he was legally disqualified from being a director of any company. This was a result of VAT fraud as owner of Widnes Vikings rugby club. He transferred control of Chester to his son, Stephen Vaughan, Jr.\n\nIn March 2012, Rangers owner Craig Whyte was found not to be a fit and proper person as the result of an independent enquiry.\n\nIn June 2014, Louis Tomlinson, former footballer and member of the boy band One Direction, and John Ryan, businessman and previous Chairman of Doncaster Rovers, launched a bid to buy the club but one month later Ryan was found not to be a fit and proper person due to a lack of funding.\n\nThe Premier League has tighter restrictions than the Football League or National League. In general, a businessman will fail the test if:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48140398", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48140398", "title": "Frihedskæmperne (Denmark)", "text": "Frihedskæmperne (Denmark)\n\nThe Freedom Fighters Party (Frihedskæmperne), founded on 7 July 2007 as the Freedom Party (\"Frihedspartiet\", FP), is a Danish political party.\n\nThe party was founded by Ruth Evensen, former pastor of \"Faderhuset\" evangelical free church, Eivind Fønss and Agner Dalgaard.\n\nOne of the party's core policies is opposition to free abortion, and in fact the party announced its creation on the day that the Christian Democrats announced that they no longer opposed free abortion.\n"}
{"id": "10071447", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10071447", "title": "International Association for Analytical Psychology", "text": "International Association for Analytical Psychology\n\nThe International Association for Analytical Psychology (IAAP) is the international accrediting and regulatory body for all Jungian societies and groups of analytical psychology practitioners, trainees and affiliates. Analytical psychology was founded by Carl Gustav Jung.\n\nThe Association is based in Zurich and was founded in 1955 by C.G. Jung and a group of international analysts. It has member associations/affiliates in 58 countries.\n\nThe main objectives of the IAAP are to advance the understanding and utility of analytical psychology worldwide, and to ensure that the highest professional, scientific and ethical standards are maintained in the training and practice of analytical psychologists among its Member Groups.\n"}
{"id": "36684332", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36684332", "title": "International Day of Happiness", "text": "International Day of Happiness\n\nThe International Day of Happiness is celebrated worldwide every March 20, and was conceptualized and founded by philanthropist, activist, statesman, and prominent United Nations special advisor Jayme Illien to inspire, mobilize, and advance the global happiness movement.\n\nIn 2011, Illien brought the idea and concept of creating a new global day of awareness, the International Day of Happiness, to senior United Nations Officials.\n\nIllien successfully campaigned to unite a global coalition of all 193 United Nations member states, and secured the endorsement of then Secretary-General of the United Nations, Ban Ki moon, to support the concept of establishing a new official international UN calendar day of observance known as the International Day of Happiness.\n\nIllien authored UN resolution 66/281 ”International Day of Happiness”, which was ultimately adopted by the unanimous consensus of all 193 UN member states of the United Nations General Assembly on June 28, 2012. Jayme Illien chose March 20 for its significance as the March equinox, a universal phenomenon felt simultaneously by all of humankind, and which occurs the moment when the plane of Earth's equator passes through the center of the Sun's disk.\n\nOn September 17, 2012, Secretary General Ban Ki moon emphasized the importance of the new international day of happiness in his closing remarks to the 66th session of the UN General Assembly, “Mr. President, during your tenure, the General Assembly also instituted a new observance on the UN calendar: the International Day of Happiness. Let us hope that through our work, including in the new session that begins tomorrow, we can turn that aspiration into reality.”\n\nThe first ever international day of happiness was celebrated on March 20, 2013.\n\nEvery March 20 since 2013, the International Day of Happiness is celebrated in 193 UN Member states, 2 observer states, and 11 territories.\n\nOn the 3rd every international day of happiness, UN Secretary Ban Ki moon said \"Happiness for the entire human family is one of the main goals of the United Nations,\" and called upon all human beings to \"dedicate our efforts to filling our world with happiness.\"\n\nAssembly Resolution A/RES/66/281 states in pertinent part:\n\n2013 The first International Day of Happiness was celebrated and launched with Ndaba Mandela, grandson of the late President of South Africa Nelson Mandela and Chelsea Clinton, daughter of US President Bill Clinton and US Senator and Democratic Presidential candidate Hillary Clinton at the TedXTeen conference in New York, NY. The United Nations and the United Nations Foundation also held ceremonies and celebrations.\n\n2014 The second International Day of Happiness was promoted by Pharrell Williams and the United Nations Foundation with the world's first 24-hour music video to the song \"Happy\". Global citizens around the world were called upon to make their own music video to the song to make the first ever globally crowdsourced 24 hour global music video .\n\n2015 The third International Day of Happiness was promoted by Pharrell Williams, the United Nations and the United Nations Foundation among other global campaigns. Pharrell Williams made a speech at the United Nations General Assembly where he proclaimed \"Happiness is your birthright\" and asked for action on climate change. Google created a home page takeover which received more than 3.5 billion impressions. Google also initiated a campaign where Pharrell would pop up at random and dance in their google hangouts feature.\n\nFounded June 28, 2012 The International Day of Happiness Resolution 66/281 was the result of the effort of United Nations adviser Jayme Illien, who conceptualized the idea for a U.N. Resolution that would recognize the pursuit of happiness as a human right and a \"fundamental human goal.\"\n\nJayme Illien, founder of the International Day of Happiness, and Illien Global Public Benefit Corporation, gained the support for the idea of the new International Day of Happiness from the President of the UN General Assembly and United Nations Secretary General Ban Ki-moon, as well as all 193 UN member states to draft and adopt a new UN resolution to create the new international day, the International Day of Happiness. Jayme Illien authored UN resolution 66/281 and campaigned for its adoption by consensus of all 193 member states.\n\nThirty two years before founding the International Day of Happiness, Jayme Illien was an orphan rescued from the streets of Calcutta India by Mother Teresa’s International Mission of Hope charities. Jayme Illien was later adopted by a then forty five year old single white American woman named Anna Belle Illien. After agreeing to adopt Jayme, Anna Belle Illien founded Illien Adoptions International, Inc, a 501 c non for profit child social welfare and international adoption agency based in Atlanta, GA.\n\nJayme Illien served as Adviser to the United Nations. Jayme Illien is United Nations consultant and representative for Economists for Peace and Security, a United Nations ECOSOC accredited NGO with special consultative status. Economists for Peace and Security achieved notability for exceedingly distinguished and thought leading economic community. The Economists for Peace and Security Board of Trustees has seventeen Nobel peace prize laureates in the prize for economics, including Joseph Stiglitz, Amartya Sen of Harvard University, Lawrence Klein, Óscar Arias, George Akerlof, Kenneth Arrow, Daniel McFadden, Roger Myerson, Thomas Schelling, William F. Sharpe of Stanford University, Robert Solow, Franco Modigliani of Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Sir Clive Granger, Wassily Leontief, Douglass North, Jan Tinbergen, and James Tobin of Harvard University and Yale University. Other notable trustees include Former US Secretary of Labor Robert Reich, Former Prime Minister of Greece George Papandreou, Former US Secretary of Defense Robert McNamara.\n\nUN Resolution 66/281: International Day of Happiness's adoption in 2012 marks a new historical milestone in humankind's ultimate quest for happiness, which dates back to the time of ancient sages and philosophers such as Bhudda, Socrates, Confucius, Aristotle, Plato, Epicurus, Mencius, Abu Hamid al-Ghazali, and religious figures like Jesus, Abraham, Moses, and the prophet Muhammad – all of whom theorized about the purpose and meaning of life, the definition of happiness, and how to achieve it.\n\nOn April 2, 2012, the United Nations hosted the first high-level meeting on happiness and wellbeing: Defining A New Economic Paradigm. At this meeting of heads of state, ministers and high-level delegates from over thirty countries and intergovernmental organizations like the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, the United Nations Secretary General Ban Ki moon stated in pertinent that:\n\n“We need a new economic paradigm that recognizes the parity between the three pillars of sustainable development. Social, economic and environmental well-being are indivisible. Together they define gross global happiness,” \n\nThis UN resolution marked the modern historical milestone of globalizing the Happiness Development Movement that started in 1972.\n\nThe resolution also celebrates a modern legal and constitutional history of humankind which recognizes happiness as a human right and goal.\n\nThe following historical timeline lists happiness development milestones and international happiness initiatives.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46303046", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46303046", "title": "Joel Baines", "text": "Joel Baines\n\nJoel D. Baines is an American virologist who is serving as dean of the School of Veterinary Medicine, Louisiana State University (LSU) since 2014. \n\nBaines received a bachelor's degree in microbiology from Kansas State University in 1979, earned his VMD degree from the University of Pennsylvania in 1983 and PhD in molecular virology from Cornell University in 1988. He did postdoctoral research at the University of Chicago. Baines was a James Law Professor of Virology in the Department of Microbiology and Immunology at Cornell. He was chosen as the sixth dean of LSU School of Veterinary Medicine in 2014 and holds the Dr. Kenneth F. Burns Chair in Veterinary Medicine.\n"}
{"id": "36460823", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36460823", "title": "Journal of Biomedical Semantics", "text": "Journal of Biomedical Semantics\n\nThe Journal of Biomedical Semantics is a peer-reviewed open access scientific journal that covers biomedical semantics. It was established in 2010 and is published by BioMed Central. The editors-in-chief are Dietrich Rebholz-Schuhmann (University of Zurich) and Goran Nenadic (University of Manchester). The journal is abstracted and indexed in Scopus, Science Citation Index Expanded, and BIOSIS Previews.\n"}
{"id": "45029309", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45029309", "title": "Kinesis (magazine)", "text": "Kinesis (magazine)\n\nKinesis was a magazine published from 1974 to 2001, by Vancouver Status of Women, in Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada. Subtitled \"news about women that's not in the dailies\", it was published 10 times each year and carried news with a social change and feminist perspective. It acted as a forum for queer, immigrant, anti-classist, anti-ablecentrist voices.\n\nIt was edited by \n\nFunding issues (Vancouver Status of Women was funded in part by government grants) and changes in editorial direction led to the shuttering of the magazine in 2001.\n\nMany issues of \"Kinesis\" are accessible online in the University of British Columbia Library's Digital Collections.\n"}
{"id": "34507995", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34507995", "title": "L'imitateur", "text": "L'imitateur\n\nL'imitateur is a 1982 Belgian documentary short film written and directed by Jaco Van Dormael. The short film was shot in 1982 in Belgium. \"L'imitateur\" tells the story of two mentally disabled which do a brief intrusion into the world of \"normal people\". The film was awarded the Best Documentary and Best Short Film at the 1983 Brussels Film Festival. In 2011, it appeared at the Sottodiciotto Filmfestival held in Turin in the retrospective dedicated to Van Dormael.\n"}
{"id": "32539540", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32539540", "title": "Land Suitability classification", "text": "Land Suitability classification\n\nThe Land Suitability Classification is a soil evaluation method, developed by FAO.\nFAO stated that Land suitability is the fitness of a given type of land for a defined use. The land may be considered in its present condition or after improvements. The process of land suitability classification is the appraisal and grouping of specific areas of land in terms of their suitability for defined uses. \n\nEach category retains its basic meaning within the context of the different classifications and as applied to different kinds of land use. Pour categories of decreasing generalization are recognized:\n\nLand suitability Orders indicate whether land is assessed as suitable or not suitable for the use under consideration. There are two orders represented in maps, tables, etc. by the symbols S and N respectively.\n\nLand may be classed as Not Suitable for a given use for a number of reasons. It may be that the proposed use is technically impracticable, such as the irrigation of rocky steep land, or that it would cause severe environmental degradation, such as the cultivation of steep slopes. Frequently, however, the reason is economic: that the value of the expected benefits does not justify the expected costs of the inputs that would be required.\n\nLand suitability Classes reflect degrees of suitability. The classes are numbered consecutively, by Arabic numbers, in sequence of decreasing degrees of suitability within the Order. Within the Order Suitable the number of classes is not specified. There might, for example, be only two, S1 and S2. The number of classes recognized should be kept to the minimum necessary to meet interpretative aims; five should probably be the most ever used.\n\nIf three Classes are recognized within the Order Suitable, as can often be recommended, the following names and definitions may be appropriate in a qualitative classification:\nWithin the Order Not Suitable, there are normally two Classes:\n"}
{"id": "2607078", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2607078", "title": "Landolt C", "text": "Landolt C\n\nA Landolt C, also known as a Landolt ring, Landolt broken ring or Japanese vision test, is an optotype, i.e. a standardized symbol used for testing vision. It was developed by the Swiss-born ophthalmologist Edmund Landolt.\n\nThe Landolt C consists of a ring that has a gap, thus looking similar to the letter C. The gap can be at various positions (usually left, right, bottom, top and the 45° positions in between) and the task of the tested person is to decide on which side the gap is. The size of the C and its gap are reduced until the subject makes a specified rate of errors. The minimum perceivable angle of the gap is taken as measure of the visual acuity. It is generally practised in the laboratory.\n\nThe stroke width is 1/5 of the diameter, and the gap width is the same. This is identical to the letter C from a Snellen chart. The Landolt C is the standard optotype for acuity measurement in most European countries. It was standardized, together with measurement procedures, by the German DIN, as DIN 58220 (now EN ISO 8596).\n\nAlthough accepted as a 'gold standard', this optotype has its own inherent problems, possibly due to higher brain function where the gap will appear closed near the limit of resolution, especially when the gap is at the 6 o'clock position. This is not due to the structure of the cornea or lens, nor is it due to astigmatic errors.\n\n"}
{"id": "9389119", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9389119", "title": "Larry E. Beutler", "text": "Larry E. Beutler\n\nLarry E. Beutler ABPP is a clinical psychologist.\n\nBeutler received his PhD from the University of Nebraska and subsequently served on the faculties of Duke University Medical Center, Stephen F. Austin State University, Baylor College of Medicine, the University of Arizona Health Sciences Center, and the University of California at Santa Barbara. He currently is a Distinguished Professor of Psychology, Chair of the Faculty, and Director of Clinical Training at Pacific Graduate School of Psychology. He is also Professor Emeritus at the University of California. He is a diplomate of the American Board of Professional Psychology (ABPP), a fellow of both American Psychological Association (APA) and Association for Psychological Science (APS), a Past President of Division 29 (Psychotherapy) of APA, current President of Division 12 (Clinical) of APA, and a two-term Past President (international) of the Society for Psychotherapy Research (SPR). Among his citations and achievements, he is a recipient of the Distinguished Career award from SPR, the Gold Medal Award from the American Psychological Foundation, and a Presidential citation for achievement from the APA. He has also been honored for his contributions by the States of Arizona and California. He has published over 350 scholarly articles and chapters and is the author or co-author of 15 books on psychotherapy, assessment, and psychopathology.\n\nLater in his career he became involved in the psychology of terrorism and response to terrorist acts. He currently is the director of the National Center on the Psychology of Terrorism in Palo Alto, California.\n\nSystematic treatment selection (STS) is an empirically derived approach to the practice of psychotherapy. It revolves around the use of an expert system to guide the clinician's thinking about how best to approach a particular case. The STS model has been demonstrated to improve treatment outcomes significantly compared to treatment as usual.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36993741", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36993741", "title": "Maldivian Red Crescent", "text": "Maldivian Red Crescent\n\nThe Maldivian Red Crescent (MRC) (Dhivehi: ދިވެހި ރެޑް ކްރެސެންޓް, Dhivehi Red Crescent) is an independent, volunteer, non-profit, humanitarian organization established in the Maldives by virture of the Maldivian Red Crescent Act (Dhivehi: ދިވެހި ރެޑް ކްރެސެންޓްގެ ޤާނޫން, Dhivehi Red Crescent'ge Gaanoonu) Law No: 7/2009 \n\nWith the birth of the national society in the Maldives, all activities in the last quarter of 2009 was focused on its formation (developing its structures, capacities and programmes) and recognition within the community (be responsive to national vulnerabilities). Initially the community engagement was limited as activities implemented were mostly process oriented.\n\nThe vision of the Maldivian Red Crescent is \"to be a model National Society contributing to overcome humanitarian challenges\". The mission statement of the national society is \"to volunteer, participate and partner in delivering humanitarian service to the most vulnerable\".\n\nAs mandated by the Maldivian Red Crescent Law and the Statutes of the National Society, the primary objective of the MRC is \"to prevent and alleviate suffering with complete impartiality, making no discrimination\".\n\nIn addition, the volunteers, members and staff of the national society follow the Fundamental Principles of the International Red Cross and Red Crescent movement;\n\nMaldivian communities were first introduced to the International Red Cross and Red Crescent Movement in the aftermath of the Indian Ocean tsunami of 2004 which brought unprecedented devastation to the countries of the region including the Maldives.\n\nThe International Federation of the Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies (IFRC) along with National Societies from numerous countries were some of the first international responders in the Maldives. Their assistance in the immediate relief and recovery stages of the disaster as well as long term recovery and rehabilitation projects helped numerous Maldivian communities to overcome the effects of the disaster.\n\nLocal individuals realized the importance and the need for having Maldives’ own national society and volunteered for its establishment. With this in mind, the volunteers, with the support of the Government of the Maldives started the process that led to the eventual formation of the Maldivian Red Crescent. This group of volunteers, with assistance from IFRC and partner national societies in the Maldives at the time began formulating the necessary documentation and legal framework for the new national society.\n\nThe Maldivian Red Crescent was officially formed with the holding of its inaugural General Assembly on 16 August 2009. The assembly elected the first governing board of MRC and adopted the National Society’s Statutes and Rules of Procedures.\n\nThe elected governing board approved MRC’s interim development plan and straight after the General Assembly, implementation of the plan took place with hiring of key management and programme staff. This led to an induction of the National Society’s governing board, management team, national advisory council members and programme staff as part of their capacity building. Formation of island units and atoll branches followed.\n\nThe MRC became the 187th member of the Movement at the 18th Federation General Assembly held in Geneva on 23 November 2011, having fulfilled all the conditions necessary, to be recognized as a member.\n\nThe legal foundation and ratification of the MRC Law by the Maldivian President took place in early May 2009. The law gave the legal right for a humanitarian organization – by the name Maldivian Red Crescent – to be established and undertake humanitarian work in the Maldives. As stipulated in the law, the objectives of the national society are;\n\nIn addition, the Law recognizes the role of the MRC as an auxiliary to the public authorities in the humanitarian field. The Law stipulates the exclusive usage of the \"red crescent' emblem by the MRC.\n\nThe Maldivian Red Crescent is a membership driven organization. The members of the national society are registered at the branch level (typically in atolls), whereas activities and volunteers are active at Unit level (typically Islands). Members of the society form the governance structure, with unit boards and branch boards being elected. Each year representatives of the branches convene to hold the national General Assembly, which is the highest decision making authority of the society. In between the Assemblies, the society is governed by the Governing Board, which is elected by the General Assembly for a term of two years. \n\nThe Maldivian Red Crescent headquarters is in the Hulhumale'.\n\nThe organisation mainly focuses on three (3) areas. Areas include Disaster Management, Health and well-being and Youth empowerment. Looking into the services more briefly, it can be classified as First Aid Services, Emergency Response, Bed to Bed patient transportation, Epidemic control and many more.\nMaldivian Red Crescent offers a wide range of training programs to develop its volunteers. The most elite training program is the \"National Emergence Response Team\" Training (NERT). Other programs include \"Emergency Response Team Induction Training\", \"Standard First Aid Training (SFA)\", Epidemic Control for Volunteers, Basic First Aid, Emergence Life Support.\n"}
{"id": "48634802", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48634802", "title": "Medical Anthropology (journal)", "text": "Medical Anthropology (journal)\n\nMedical Anthropology is a bimonthly peer-reviewed academic journal covering medical anthropology published by Routledge. It was established in 1977. The editor-in-chief is Lenore Manderson (University of the Witwatersrand and (Brown University).\n\nThe journal is abstracted and indexed in Anthropological Index Online, Current Contents/Social & Behavioral Sciences, EBSCOhost, European Reference Index for the Humanities, International Bibliography of the Social Sciences, Social Science Citation Index, PsycINFO, and Scopus.\n"}
{"id": "52053792", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52053792", "title": "Medical Council of New Zealand", "text": "Medical Council of New Zealand\n\nThe Medical Council of New Zealand is the peak national standards and assessment body for medical education and training. It is responsible for the registration of doctors and has the power to suspend or remove the right to practise medicine in New Zealand. Its responsibilities are defined by the Health Practitioners Competence Assurance Act 2003 and it is funded by practitioner fees paid by all practising doctors in New Zealand.\n\n"}
{"id": "39407203", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39407203", "title": "Mental health in Southeast Africa", "text": "Mental health in Southeast Africa\n\nMental health in Southeast Africa is a concern, where mental illness is prevalent. Mental health issues in Africa are often viewed as the \"silent crisis\" since they are often given lower priority in a region of Africa where international aid is focused on communicable diseases and malnutrition. Each country in Southeast Africa is consistently confronted with barriers that make mental health policies a challenge to implement, including the lack of policy, social and cultural barriers, the role of traditional medicine, HIV/AIDS, and the stigma surrounding mental health issues.\n\nProfessor Anyang' Nyong'o wrote a letter on June 23, 2011 to the Kenyan National Commission of Human Rights, stating, \"Currently there is a very big gap existing between the mental health needs of Kenyans and the existing mental health services at all levels of the health care services delivery system.\"\n\nAlthough there is a lack of attention to mental health in the healthcare systems, it is a major issue in Southeast African countries. Efforts have been made in some countries to allocate funding to mental health initiatives. Uganda's policies are a prime example of a successful effort to improve mental health in Southeast Africa. In 2006–2007, after undertaking an initial situational analysis of Uganda's mental health system, a new mental health policy was created. The vision for the project in Uganda is to eliminate, mental health issues, neurological disorders, and substance use from the population. From this vision, guiding principles were implemented, key priority areas were identified, policy objectives were selected, and the Uganda Ministry of Health began to make mental health a priority. The World Health Organization (WHO) continues to work with the developing nations of Africa to implement strategies to improve mental health situations and treatment in these countries. The few countries that have mental health policies in place, were created prior to 1990, and are in dire need of updating. Uganda had achieved great success with their new mental health policies and is working in close cooperation with the WHO to finalize their health-care policy. The WHO is working to move other countries' mental health policies forward.\n\nThe Southeast African Great Lakes region has a long-standing tribal history of traditional medicine and practices. Although some slight progress has been made with the availability of mental health resources in these areas, still many people in rural Southeast Africa utilize traditional methods to treat mental illness. According to Vikram Patel, a global mental health expert and professor at the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, the stigmatization of mental illness is due to traditional and cultural methods of dealing with these situations and can only be changed through improved support, education, and greater awareness. In traditional Southeast Africa, when there is a situation in which there is a mental health concern, the patient is usually treated without their consent. For an example, if the patient is violent or destructive, he is sedated by the traditional healer or by family members in order to commence therapy, and people are often isolated or treated against their will in order to prevent patients from hurting themselves or others. In a CNN series, \"African Voices\", leading psychiatrist Frank Njenga, states that when a patient has some form of illness such as depression or schizophrenia, community members and traditional healers often look at it as being possessed by demons or witchcraft.\n\nSome mental illnesses have been linked to an imbalance of chemicals in the brain called neurotransmitters. These neurotransmitters help nerve cells in the brain communicate. If these chemicals are out of balance or are not working properly, messages may not properly transmit through the brain, leading to symptoms of mental illness. In addition, defects in or Traumatic Brain Injury (TBI) to areas of the brain have also been linked to some mental conditions.\n\nMany socioeconomic factors may contribute to mental health. Such as, disease, political unrest, violence, and any kind of addiction. These may all play a role in the high incident of mental illness in Southeast Africa. Adequate care may not be available to sufferers, due to the stigma that surrounds people dealing with mental illness. The reversal of this stigma, is due to the lack of educational resources . In Southeast Africa many people have developed post-traumatic stress disorder relating to genocide, civil war, tribal clashes, and refugee situations. Particularly in Rwanda and Uganda, post-traumatic stress disorder affects a significant number of the population, due to recent conflict, genocide, and crimes against humanity.\n\n"}
{"id": "34470862", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34470862", "title": "Monika Schultz", "text": "Monika Schultz\n\nMonika Karin Schultz (born August 15, 1967 in Pasadena, Texas) is an American engineer. She currently works as a manager in coaching and development at Intertek in the Houston, Texas area. She formerly worked for the United Space Alliance, a NASA contractor. She considers Nassau Bay, Texas her hometown. In April 2005, Schultz served as an aquanaut on the NASA Extreme Environment Mission Operations 8 () crew.\n\nSchultz graduated from Clear Creek High School in League City, Texas in 1985 and earned a Bachelor of Science degree in Electrical Engineering from Rice University in 1990. She earned a Master's Certificate in Project Management (MCPM) from the University of Houston–Clear Lake in 2011.\n\nAfter receiving her engineering degree, Schultz thought she would find work in the Texas Medical Center since her primary interest was biomedical engineering, but then decided that she did not want to spend a great deal of time commuting from her suburban home into Houston, and investigated employment with NASA and aerospace companies instead. From 1990 to 1998, Schultz worked for Rockwell Space Operations Company providing engineering support to the Astronaut Office on Space Shuttle payloads. In 1998, Monika accepted a position with Spacehab, Inc. to provide science mission management for their Spacehab module mission on the Space Shuttle.\n\nFrom 1999 to 2010, Schultz returned to work for United Space Alliance (formerly Rockwell) and the Astronaut Office. She created and managed the Astronaut Expeditionary Training Project, which prepared potential International Space Station astronauts for the unique personal and interpersonal aspects of long duration space flight. Schultz worked with many different people to arrange classroom training, backpacking courses in summer and winter, and NEEMO missions for astronauts. In August 2001, the crew of STS-107, who were killed the following year in the Space Shuttle \"Columbia\" disaster, took part in an expeditionary training exercise in the Wind River Mountains in Wyoming. Schultz was quoted at the time as saying that interpersonal skills became more important as space flights became longer, saying, \"Over time, the little things that didn't bug you before now become more apparent.\" From 2009 to 2010, Schultz served as International Space Station Crew Support Lead.\n\nIn April 2005, Schultz became an aquanaut through her participation in the joint NASA-NOAA, (NASA Extreme Environment Mission Operations) project, an exploration research mission held in Aquarius, the world's only undersea research laboratory. Schultz and her crewmates lived and worked underwater for three days. Schultz commented in a blog entry during NEEMO 8, \"It was an awesome feeling to stand in the wetporch when we first came in and realize that I would be staying here for a while rather than just dropping in for a quick visit.\" Schultz was a member of the topside support teams for multiple NEEMO missions.\n\nSchultz worked as a Test Safety Officer for Anadarko Industries in 2011, performing risk evaluations of spacecraft systems. In November 2011, she began working as a manager for Intertek, a global inspection, product testing and certification company, leading the development of coaching products and services offered to Intertek's clients.\n\nSchultz is married to Sven Eric Schultz and they have one son. She enjoys biking, hiking, sailing, diving, reading, and zymurgy. Schultz is a certified PADI Rescue Diver and has made over 100 open water dives. She is a former emergency medical technician with the Nassau Bay Volunteer Fire Department.\n\n"}
{"id": "36749205", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36749205", "title": "Multiplicity (psychology)", "text": "Multiplicity (psychology)\n\nMultiplicity is the use of multiple personality styles by a person. For example, a woman may adopt a kind, nurturing personality when dealing with her children but change to a more aggressive, forceful personality when going to work as a high-flying executive as her responsibilities change.\n\nRita Carter says evidence for multiplicity abounds and is found in history, and that when an individual states that they have been taken over by a spirit, soul, or ghost, they are saying that they are experiencing another personality. She says that feeling happy and carefree while in the company of your friends, but less so at home with family, is an example of multiple personality styles.\n\nJung proposed: \"The many \"contains\" the unity of the one \"without losing\" the possibilities of the many.\"\n\nPlato described the soul (\"psyche\") as having three parts, calling them Logos (rationality), Eros (erotic love), and Thymus (desire). According to Carter, Shakespeare showed examples of this in his works of literature; characters like Hamlet and Macbeth had distinct personalities that differed throughout their respective works. Carter says that Freud supported the notion of different personalities when he came up with the Id, Ego, and Superego, arguing that there is a split in the conscious and unconscious mind.\n\nCarter says that Italian psychologist Roberto Assagioli developed an approach to psychology called psychosynthesis, and thought many personalities that an individual is not consciously aware of may be present. American psychologist John G. Watkins used hypnosis to bring out different personalities, as a method to study those personalities.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32352873", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32352873", "title": "Nicolai Levashov", "text": "Nicolai Levashov\n\nNicolai or Nikolai Levashov (; February 8, 1961June 11, 2012) was a Russian occultist and psychic healer who wrote several books on life in the universe, Slavic history, the origin of mankind on Earth and other topics. From 1991-2005 he was known in the United States for several causes célèbres involving his patients. One of his books is classified as antisemitic and extreme and banned in Russia. He was a leader of a public organisation \"Renaissance. The Golden Age\" which is considered a destructive cult by the Russian Orthodox Church.\n\nNicolai Levashov was born in 1961 in Kislovodsk. After his graduation from the department of theoretical radiophysics, University of Kharkiv, he spent a couple of years in the Soviet Army. Levashov died on June 11, 2012. According to his website:\n\n\"19-06-2012 – On Monday, June 11, 2012 Nicolai Levashov, a prominent Russian scientist and writer, kind and honourable man, left this world in his Moscow flat. His physical body did not die of old age, illness or any \"comforts\" of our civilization. He was just 51 and in robust good health. He perished on the battle field fighting the Universal Evil, just as Svetlana, his beloved wife, comrade-in-arms and one of his few true friends, did one and a half years ago.\"\n\nToward the end of 1980s Levashov started his public activities. According to his autobiography \"\"The mirror of my soul\", by the summer of 1988 he had begun practicing healing. Having married for a second time, to a psychic, Mzia, he assisted in her stage performances of mentalism and hypnosis. With Allan Chumak and other healers, Levashov was trying to establish a state-run \"Foundation of Alternative Medicine\" asking the Soviet Ministry of Navy for support.\n\nAt the same time Levashov propagated his ideas in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Scott Shane, an American journalist with \"The Baltimore Sun\" in Russia, writes that Levashov claimed he could speak with dolphins, clean polluted city air by his mental power, heal by phone, see internal organs through the skin etc. Shane met Levashov at a briefing in the Ministry concerning the Angolan Civil War, although \"Nikolai Levashov modestly explained that he knew nothing about international relations\"\". Scott Shane believes that the proliferation of pseudoscientists such as Chumak and Levashov was a negative underside of the relaxation of censorship in the Soviet Union.\n\nIn July 1990 Soviet Central Television broadcast a film about the Levashov couple. It was based on assertions by Mzia and Nicolai and on a trial involving four journalists. The trial was carried out in the Institute of Human Brain, a scientific organization, but controversial for its interest in extrasensory perception. Among the four people tested, M. Dekhta was a friend of Levashov, and Ruben Isahakyan was another healer who later founded an alternative medicine company, \"Altimed\".\n\nThe story of the Levashovs was published in the magazine \"Television and Radio\" as well.\n\nBy the time of the broadcast, Nicolai and Mzia were already divorced. In 1990—1991 Levashov performed on tour in Russian cities, practicing faith healing.\n\nIn 1991 Nicolai Levashov and his third wife Svetlana (née Serëgina or Žymantienė) visited the United States and settled in California for 15 years.\n\nNicolai started his healing practice in the \"American College of Traditional Chinese Medicine\", which consisted of two employees in three rooms. He made acquaintance with an Armenian family of Soviet descent, the Orbelians. George Orbelian and his wife Marcia Paulsen-Orbelian supported Levashov, spoke about him on the local TV and translated his books from Russian into English. Levashov was also broadcast on \"Russian Voice Radio\" (San Francisco).\n\nLevashov is mentioned in books and articles by astrologer Jeanne Avery, \"distance healer\" Robert Ginsburg, Reichian therapist Richard Blasband and his alternative medicine clinic \"Center For Functional Research\", and \"healer\" Todd Telford. Barbara Koopman (M.D., Ph.D. in geriatrics), who studies mental healing phenomenon, says that Levashov considers understanding the anisotropy of the universe necessary for creation or dissolution of matter for healing purposes.\n\nScientific skeptics have written about Levashov and his healing practice. Michael Shermer published an article in \"Skeptic\" saying that B. Koopman trusted Levashov because he allegedly cured her friend, actress Susan Strasberg, who had cancer. Nonetheless, in January 1999 Strasberg died of cancer.\n\nAnother case is that of Elisabeth Targ's death. A well-known psychologist who believed in psychics, she was diagnosed with glioblastoma multiforme in her 40s; radiation therapy was prescribed. Targ consulted practitioners of alternative medicine including Levashov. As Po Bronson writes, “\"her bedroom turned into a circus. Healers from everywhere showed up… There was a Lakota sun dancer who burned sage; Nicolai Levashov, a Russian psychic who waved his hands; an acupuncturist with rare Chinese herbs; an energy worker who used methods of the Miwok peoples\"”. Levashov claimed he cured the cancer and persuaded Targ to stop radiation therapy. She became worse, but Levashov insisted it was not the cancer but some necrotic tissues. In three weeks Targ died from glioblastoma. This story was published in \"Wired\" and was used in an article by Vic Stenger for the \"Skeptical Briefs\".\n\nIn 2006, Levashov returned to Russia, where he increased his public activity: he published many books and was invited on TV and radio, including REN TV, Channel One, TV-3, Russia 1 and others. One of his most common claims was that the 2010 Northern Hemisphere summer heat waves were the result of a US \"Climate Change Weapon\", and he said he saved Russia from that weapon. Levashov is a supporter of the HAARP conspiracy theory. He supported the authenticity of the Book of Veles, the extraterrestrial colonization of Earth, a pseudohistorical theory close to the New Chronology (although Levashov does not mention Anatoly Fomenko), and the existence of the \"vanished continent\" of Atlantis. Some of his statements are similar to ideas from the \"Slavic-Arian Vedas\" (a hoax book of Slavic Neopaganism). He opposed vaccination and genetically modified foods. Levashov was an atheist, and aggressively objected to Christianity, although his views were far from materialism.\n\nSome television hosts and newspapers present Levashov as a professional physicist or meteorologist while others criticize him and call him a \"pseudoscientist\".\n\nLevashov wrote some half dozen books available in print and online; 50,000 copies have been printed. One of the books, the antisemitic \"Russian History Viewed through Distorted Mirrors\", was prohibited from being published or distributed in Russia by the Court of Kaluga Region due to its extremism.\n\nWell-known Russian illusionist Yuri Gorny (a former psychic who is now a devoted skeptic) says Levashov picks only the most suggestible people from the audience for his psychic tricks.\n\nIn May 2007 Levashov founded a public organization \"Renaissance. The Golden Age\" () which is considered a destructive cult by the Russian Orthodox Church. The organization has headquarters in Moscow, 18 branches in Russia, and four branches abroad, in Kiev, Chişinău, Minsk, and Kharkiv. It is not registered with the Ministry of Justice.\n\nThe members of \"Renaissance. The Golden Age\"\" disseminate Levashov's statements. They organize rallies supporting Levashov and opposing genetically modified foods and vaccination in many Russian cities, advertise Levashov's books on the Internet and in the press. They conduct seminars in schools and universities popularizing ideas of Levashov and other pseudoscientific theories such as telegony. In Petropavlovsk-Kamchatsky they converted a schoolteacher, O. Shepetovskaya, to their organization; Levashov's ideas were then taught at her school #45.\n\n\nOne book by Levashov's wife Svetlana Levashova was published:\n"}
{"id": "1730242", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1730242", "title": "Nicotine poisoning", "text": "Nicotine poisoning\n\nNicotine poisoning describes the symptoms of the toxic effects of nicotine following ingestion, inhalation, or skin contact. Nicotine poisoning can potentially be deadly, though serious or fatal overdoses are rare. Historically, most cases of nicotine poisoning have been the result of use of nicotine as an insecticide. More recent cases of poisoning typically appear to be in the form of Green Tobacco Sickness, or due to unintended ingestion of tobacco or tobacco products or consumption of nicotine-containing plants.\n\nThe estimated lower limit of a lethal dose of nicotine has been reported as between 500 and 1000 mg. Children may become ill following ingestion of one cigarette; ingestion of more than this may cause a child to become severely ill. The nicotine in the e-liquid of an electronic cigarette can be hazardous to infants and children, through accidental ingestion or skin contact. In some cases children have become poisoned by topical medicinal creams which contain nicotine.\n\nPeople who harvest or cultivate tobacco may experience Green Tobacco Sickness (GTS), a type of nicotine poisoning caused by skin contact with wet tobacco leaves. This occurs most commonly in young, inexperienced tobacco harvesters who do not consume tobacco.\n\nThe of nicotine is 50 mg/kg for rats and 3 mg/kg for mice. 0.5–1.0 mg/kg can be a lethal dosage for adult humans, and 0.1 mg/kg for children. However the widely used human LD estimate of 0.5–1.0 mg/kg was questioned in a 2013 review, in light of several documented cases of humans surviving much higher doses; the 2013 review suggests that the lower limit causing fatal outcomes is 500–1000 mg of ingested nicotine, corresponding to 6.5–13 mg/kg orally. An accidental ingestion of only 6 mg may be lethal to children.\n\nIt is unlikely that a person would overdose on nicotine through smoking alone. The US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) stated in 2013: \"There are no significant safety concerns associated with using more than one [over the counter] OTC [nicotine replacement therapy] NRT at the same time, or using an OTC NRT at the same time as another nicotine-containing product—including a cigarette.\" Ingestion of nicotine pharmaceuticals, tobacco products, or nicotine containing plants may also lead to poisoning. Smoking excessive amounts of tobacco has also led to poisoning; a case was reported where two brothers smoked 17 and 18 pipes of tobacco in succession and were both fatally poisoned. Spilling an extremely high concentration of nicotine onto the skin can result in intoxication or even death since nicotine readily passes into the bloodstream following skin contact.\n\nThe recent rise in the use of electronic cigarettes, many forms of which are designed to be refilled with nicotine-containing \"e-liquid\" supplied in small plastic bottles, has renewed interest in nicotine overdoses, especially in the possibility of young children ingesting the liquids. A 2015 Public Health England report noted an \"unconfirmed newspaper report of a fatal poisoning of a two-year old child\" and two published case reports of children of similar age who had recovered after ingesting e-liquid and vomiting. They also noted case reports of suicides by nicotine. Where adults drank liquid containing up to 1,500 mg of nicotine they recovered (helped by vomiting), but an ingestion apparently of about 10,000 mg was fatal, as was an injection. They commented that \"Serious nicotine poisoning seems normally prevented by the fact that relatively low doses of nicotine cause nausea and vomiting, which stops users from further intake.\" Four adults died in the US and Europe, after intentionally ingesting liquid. Two children, one in the US in 2014 and another in Israel in 2013, died after ingesting liquid nicotine.\n\nHowever, the discrepancy between the historically stated 60-mg dose and published cases of nicotine intoxication has been noted previously (Matsushima et al. 1995; Metzler et al. 2005), but nonetheless, this value is still erroneously accepted without scrutiny and taken as the basis for worldwide safety regulations of tobacco and other nicotine-containing products (like the recent EU wide TPD, set at an insufficient 20mg maximum - which is not enough to wean off the average 'pack-a-day' smoker, only light/occasional smokers). Nicotine is a toxic compound that should be handled with care, but the frequent exaggerated warnings of potential fatalities caused by ingestion of small amounts of tobacco products or diluted nicotine-containing solutions are fear mongering and unjustified and need to be revised in light of overwhelming data indicating that more than 0.5 g (that's 500mg) of oral nicotine is required to kill an average adult.\n\nNicotine poisoning tends to produce symptoms that follow a biphasic pattern. The initial symptoms are mainly due to stimulatory effects and include nausea and vomiting, excessive salivation, abdominal pain, pallor, sweating, hypertension, tachycardia, ataxia, tremor, headache, dizziness, muscle fasciculations, and seizures. After the initial stimulatory phase, a later period of depressor effects can occur and may include symptoms of hypotension and bradycardia, central nervous system depression, coma, muscular weakness and/or paralysis, with difficulty breathing or respiratory failure.\n\nFrom September 1, 2010 to December 31, 2014, there were at least 21,106 traditional cigarette calls to US poison control centers. During the same period, the ten most frequent adverse effects to traditional cigarettes reported to US poison control centers were vomiting (80.0%), nausea (9.2%), drowsiness (7.8%), cough (7.2%), agitation (6.6%), pallor (3.0%), tachycardia (2.5%), diaphoresis (1.5%), dizziness (1.5%), and diarrhea (1.4%). 95% of traditional cigarette calls were related to children 5 years old or less. Most of the traditional cigarette calls were a minor effect.\n\nCalls to US poison control centers related to e-cigarette exposures involved inhalations, eye exposures, skin exposures, and ingestion, in both adults and young children. Minor, moderate, and serious adverse effects involved adults and young children. Minor effects correlated with e-cigarette liquid poisoning were tachycardia, tremor, chest pain and hypertension. More serious effects were bradycardia, hypotension, nausea, respiratory paralysis, atrial fibrillation and dyspnea. The exact correlation is not fully known between these effects and e-cigarettes. 58% of e-cigarette calls to US poison control centers were related to children 5 years old or less. E-cigarette calls had a greater chance to report an adverse effect and a greater chance to report a moderate or major adverse effect than traditional cigarette calls. Most of the e-cigarette calls were a minor effect.\n\nFrom September 1, 2010 to December 31, 2014, there were at least 5,970 e-cigarette calls to US poison control centers. During the same period, the ten most frequent adverse effects to e-cigarettes and e-liquid reported to US poison control centers were vomiting (40.4%), eye irritation or pain (20.3%), nausea (16.8%), red eye or conjunctivitis (10.5%), dizziness (7.5%), tachycardia (7.1%), drowsiness (7.1%), agitation (6.3%), headache (4.8%), and cough (4.5%).\n\nThe symptoms of nicotine poisoning are caused by excessive stimulation of nicotinic cholinergic neurons. Nicotine is an agonist at nicotinic acetylcholine receptor which are present in the central and autonomic nervous systems, and the neuromuscular junction. At low doses nicotine causes stimulatory effects on these receptors, however, higher doses or more sustained exposures can cause inhibitory effects leading to neuromuscular blockade.\n\nIt is sometimes reported that people poisoned by organophosphate insecticides experience the same symptoms as nicotine poisoning. Organophosphates inhibit an enzyme called acetylcholinesterase, causing a buildup of acetylcholine, excessive stimulation of all types of cholinergic neurons, and a wide range of symptoms. Nicotine is specific for nicotinic cholinergic receptors only and has some, but not all of the symptoms of organophosphate poisoning.\n\nIncreased nicotine or cotinine (the nicotine metabolite) is detected in urine or blood, or serum nicotine concentrations increase.\n\nThe initial treatment of nicotine poisoning may include the administration of activated charcoal to try to reduce gastrointestinal absorption. Treatment is mainly supportive and further care can include control of seizures with the administration of a benzodiazepine, intravenous fluids for hypotension, and administration of atropine for bradycardia. Respiratory failure may necessitate respiratory support with rapid sequence induction and mechanical ventilation. Hemodialysis, hemoperfusion or other extracorporeal techniques do not remove nicotine from the blood and are therefore not useful in enhancing elimination. Acidifying the urine could theoretically enhance nicotine excretion, although this is not recommended as it may cause complications of metabolic acidosis.\n\nThe prognosis is typically good when medical care is provided and patients adequately treated are unlikely to have any long-term sequelae. However, severely affected patients with prolonged seizures or respiratory failure may have ongoing impairments secondary to the hypoxia. It has been stated that if a patient survives nicotine poisoning during the first 4 hours, they usually recover completely. At least at \"normal\" levels, as nicotine in the human body is broken down, it has an approximate biological half-life of 1–2 hours. Cotinine is an active metabolite of nicotine that remains in the blood for 18–20 hours, making it easier to analyze due to its longer half-life.\n\n"}
{"id": "9126099", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9126099", "title": "Nicotine withdrawal", "text": "Nicotine withdrawal\n\nNicotine withdrawal is a group of symptoms that occur in the first few weeks upon the abrupt discontinuation or decrease in intake of nicotine. Symptoms include intense cravings for nicotine, anger/irritability, anxiety, depression, impatience, trouble sleeping, restlessness, hunger or weight gain, and difficulty concentrating. A smoking cessation program may improve one’s chance for success in quitting nicotine. Nicotine withdrawal is recognized in both the American Psychiatric Association Diagnostic and Statistical Manual and the WHO International Classification of Diseases.\n\nThe most documented symptoms are cravings for nicotine, anger/irritability, anxiety, depression, impatience, trouble sleeping, restlessness, hunger or weight gain, and difficulty concentrating. Symptoms are usually strongest for the first few days and then dissipate over 2-4 weeks. Withdrawal symptoms make it harder to quit nicotine products and most methods for quitting smoking involve reducing nicotine withdrawal. The most common symptoms are irritability, anxiety and difficulty concentrating. Depression and insomnia are the least common. Other withdrawal symptoms may include constipation, cough, dizziness, drowsiness, headache, impulsivity, fatigue, flu symptoms, mood swings, mouth ulcers, and increased dreaming. Cessation of nicotine usually increases eating and weight, decreases memory, decreases the ability to pay attention and concentrate on tasks, and decreases heart rate. Cessation of tobacco can also require changes in levels of various medications.\n\nThe effect that nicotine-dependent individuals experience after they discontinue or decrease nicotine use. Nicotine is an addictive substance found most commonly in tobacco and tobacco products including cigarettes, cigars, chewing tobacco, pipe tobacco, snus, snuff, nicotine gum and e-liquid. Withdrawal is the body’s reaction to not having the nicotine it had become accustomed to. Withdrawal is most common and intense in cigarette smokers and intermediate in smokeless users. The symptoms of nicotine withdrawal usually appear 2-3 hours after last intake of nicotine and peak in 2-3 days. In a minority of smokers, cravings may last for years. Nicotine withdrawal causes few physical signs and is not life-threatening but associated cravings can be as severe as withdrawal from other drugs. There is some evidence that stopping nicotine may make a prior psychiatric problem worse but this is uncertain. After the initial withdrawal period, anxiety, depression, and quality of life generally improve such that former smokers are better off than continuing smokers.\n\nVarious causes have been proposed to explain the causes of nicotine withdrawal. Nicotine binds to nicotinic receptors in the brain that, in turn, cause an increase in dopamine. Dopamine is the major chemical that stimulates reward centers in the brain. The brain recruits an opposing force to dampen the effects of nicotine and this causes tolerance (the reduction in the effect of nicotine). The onset of this opposing force and the fact that the brain becomes used to and dependent on nicotine to function normally is known as physical dependence. When nicotine intake is decreased, the brain's opposing force is now unopposed and this causes withdrawal symptoms. It also appears that opiate, serotonergic, glutamic, cannabinoid, and corticotrophin receptors may play a role in nicotine withdrawal.\n\nGradually reducing nicotine intake causes less withdrawal than abruptly stopping. Another way to reduce nicotine withdrawal symptoms is to provide the body with an alternative source of nicotine (nicotine replacement therapy) for a temporary period and then taper this new nicotine intake. Other medication used for quitting smoking include bupropion, varenicline, cytisine, nortriptyline, and clonidine. Treatments other than medication, such as increased exercise, can also reduce nicotine withdrawal. Many behavior changes such as avoiding situations where one usually smoked, planning ahead to deal with temptations, and seeking the support of friends and family are effective in helping people quit smoking, but whether this is due to reduced withdrawal is unclear.\n\nMost nicotine users have at least one of the above withdrawal symptoms when they try to stop. These effects are much milder to those who use isolated nicotine over tobacco. Withdrawal can occur in less frequent users, but heavier users and those with a past or current psychiatric disorder tend to have more severe withdrawal. Genetics also influence the severity of withdrawal.\n\n"}
{"id": "13418661", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13418661", "title": "North American Occupational Safety and Health Week", "text": "North American Occupational Safety and Health Week\n\nNorth American Occupational Safety and Health (NAOSH) week is held every year during the first full week of May to raise awareness about occupational safety, health and the environment (SH&E) in an effort to prevent work injuries and illnesses. The American Society of Safety Engineers (ASSE) partners with the Canadian Society of Safety Engineering (CSSE) to raise public awareness about safety in the workplace in North America during NAOSH week. This is one of the major tools that ASSE and its 34,000 occupational safety, health and environmental professional members use throughout the year to increase attention to the importance of keeping all employees injury and illness free in the workplace.\n\nSeveral organizations and government agencies partner with ASSE to support NAOSH Week, including the Department of Labor’s Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) and their alliance partners.\n\nASSE members host various classes, symposiums and work safety fairs, and distribute information on such subjects as catastrophe preparedness, roadway crash prevention and teen worker safety. In addition, ASSE assists charities, provides teen worker safety programs, and donates personal protective equipment (PPE) as part of NAOSH Week.\n\nDuring the months leading up to NAOSH Week, ASSE holds its popular children's \"safety-on-the-job\" poster contest (ages 5–14) which supports Society members, and educates children on the importance of workplace safety. The contest runs annually from September 19 through February 14.\n\nEach year provinces and states, cities and counties support NAOSH week and local ASSE members by sponsoring and passing proclamations and resolutions in support of occupational SH&E practitioners who work to prevent accidents, injuries and occupational diseases, create safer work and leisure environments and develop safer products. \n\nASSE honors its members who have gone above and beyond in supporting NAOSH week and the profession with the annual ASSE North American Occupational Safety and Health (NAOSH) Week Champion. The awards are presented each year at the ASSE Professional Development Conference.\n\n"}
{"id": "35518787", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35518787", "title": "Oliver Wrong", "text": "Oliver Wrong\n\nProfessor Oliver Murray Wrong (7 February 1925 – 24 February 2012) was an eminent academic nephrologist (kidney specialist) and one of the founders of the speciality in the United Kingdom. From a background as a \"salt and water\" physician, he made detailed clinical observations and scientifically imaginative connections which were the basis of numerous advances in the molecular biology of the human kidney. Wrong himself contributed to much of the molecular work after his own \"retirement\". He dictated amendments to his final paper during his final illness in his own teaching hospital, University College Hospital (UCH), London. Though academic in his leanings, he was a compassionate physician who established a warm rapport with patients, a link he regarded as the keystone of his research. He belonged to a generation of idealistic young doctors responsible for the establishment of the UK's National Health Service in the post-War years.\n\nWrong was born in Magdalen College, Oxford, and was one of six children of Edward Murray Wrong and Rosalind Smith. Murray Wrong was a history lecturer and later vice-president of Magdalen, and his own father was the historian George MacKinnon Wrong, head of the department of history at University of Toronto. Rosalind, herself a historian, was the daughter of the Master of Balliol, A.L. Smith. Murray died of heart disease at the age of 38 and Oliver wrote an account of his father's illness, including consultations with Sir William Osler, in a vignette \"Osler and my father\". His father's early death and the Great Depression led to a split in the upbringing of the six children. Oliver was sent to Toronto with two of his sisters and was raised by his grandfather, George MacKinnon Wrong. Another sister was Rosalind Mitchison.\n\nOliver Wrong studied Medicine at Magdalen and completed his clinical studies at the Radcliffe\nHospital, Oxford. His ‘National Service’ – military conscription - was spent with the Royal Army\nMedical Corps in Singapore and Malaysia. This was a geographical region to which he would return\nseveral times in his research. After internships in Toronto and at Massachusetts General\nHospital with Alexander Leaf, he was appointed University Tutor in Medicine at Manchester Royal\nInfirmary. Leaf was a formative influence and an important paper was jointly produced on the role of\nAnti-Diuretic Hormone and the kidney.\n\nIt was at Manchester with Dr. H.E.F. Davies, in 1959, that Wrong wrote a ground-breaking paper\non the mechanisms leading to the excretion of acid in human urine. His clinical analysis of this\nprocess and the impact of kidney disease made this paper a ‘Citation Classic’. Reviewing his time at Manchester, Wrong noted: ‘I realise what an excellent education [my years at Manchester]\nprovided by giving me time to tackle my own problems under a benign yet critical supervision.\nBecause of earlier marriage and the rigidity of our postgraduate medical training programme, few of our present graduates feel able to afford such self indulgence’. After an appointment at UCH,\nWrong became senior lecturer in medicine at the Hammersmith Hospital. This was followed by\nappointment to the Chair of Medicine at Dundee University in 1969 and a return to UCH in 1972 to\nsucceed Professor Charles Dent F.R.S. as a Professor of Medicine.\n\nAt UCH over the following years, and following retirement in 1990, Wrong developed major insights\ninto the physiology and pathophysiology of the human kidney. Wrong had a parallel interest in the\nrole of the large intestine in salt and water balance and developed much of his own experimental\nwork into a short monograph published in 1981. However, it was his renal work, based initially on the\nurine acidification test which he developed with Davies, for which Wrong is best known.\n\nThe original paper by Wrong and Davies examined the effect of the ‘short ammonium chloride loading test’ on acid excretion by the kidney. A key insight was that in the group of diseases termed ‘Renal Tubular Acidosis’ (RTA), urinary excretion of ammonium was relatively well preserved. This was unlike the situation in chronic renal failure. Furthermore, the paper identified a subset of patients with ‘incomplete’ RTA. In large part due to Wrong’s work, it is now recognized that classical ‘distal’ or ‘Type 1 RTA’, due to the disease of the distal tubule, is only one form of the disease. ‘Proximal’ or ‘Type 2 RTA’ is another.\n\nThe identification of several hereditary forms of RTA was developed by Wrong and co-workers and forms the basis of many of the advances of molecular genetics in this area. By rigorous phenotypic classification, Wrong and other workers showed that ‘Type 1 RTA’ could have either dominant (SCL4A1 mutation) or recessive inheritance. It was further shown that there were three forms of recessive RTA distinguished clinically and on the basis of molecular generics divided into disease due to SLC4A1 mutation and either the B1 or a4 subunits of the kidney H+-ATPase due to mutation of the ATP6V1B1 andATP6V0A4 genes respectively. Hereditary ‘Proximal’ or ‘Type 2 RTA’ may be caused by mutation of the SLC4A4 gene and yet a further ‘Type 3 RTA’ with combined features of proximal and distal RTA is due to mutation in the CA2 gene for carbonic anhydrase II. These developments in the molecular biology of the kidney may be traced back in large part, though not exclusively, to Wrong’s original 1959 paper.\n\nNephrocalcinosis was a subject on which Wrong was an international expert and he wrote the relevant chapter on this subject for one of the standard nephrology textbooks. It is a summary of his experience of this finding based on almost his entire professional life.\n\nWrong was unusual in the breadth of his medical interests. His 1981 reference book, The Large Intestine: Its role in Mammalian Nutrition and Homeostasis, summarised research into a part of the human anatomy he felt was neglected due to unprofessional squeamishness on the part of the scientific establishment. \"There is a curious reluctance in the medical profession to handle faeces,\" he said. He began a 1965 paper on the electrolyte content of human waste with the characteristically playful: \"Stool is the Cinderella of electrolyte studies.\"\n\nA great believer in self-experimentation, Wrong invented the \"Wrong bags\", which allow precious \"in vivo\" insights into the colon’s hidden workings. These were rolled-up ribbons of semi-permeable tubing which could be eaten at breakfast and examined on retrieval distended with faecal fluid allowing comparison of gastrointestinal solute transport in normal subjects and those with renal failure. Wrong manufactured 5,000 of these \"bags\" in his laboratory, and while colleagues and family members were recruited as experimental subjects, he swallowed most of them himself.\nIn a major medical insight, Wrong realised that a number of the patients he was seeing in one of his clinics at UCH had an apparently hereditary clinical syndrome very similar to that reported some 20 years earlier by Dent (his predecessor as Professor of Medicine at UCH) and Friedman in 1964. Dent and Friedman originally reported two unrelated patients with the condition they termed ‘Hypercalcuric Rickets’ without identifying any hereditary component. Wrong, based on his own additional clinical work, discovered that this was a new hereditary disease and with his co-workers Norden and Feest reported it as a form of the renal ‘Fanconi Syndrome’.\n\nA very similar hereditary clinical syndrome was reported by Scheinman and colleagues. This clinical work was put on a very firm basis by Thakker, Scheinman and Wrong and colleagues who determined that mutation of the chloride channel gene CLCN5 was the cause of many, though not all, of these disorders including one of the two original patients described by Dent and Friedman. Wrong had already been ‘retired’ for 6 years when this was published. It became clear that several similar clinical conditions were, on the basis of genetic analysis, the same as that which Wrong had originally termed ‘Dent’s Disease’ in honour of his late mentor. This disease is variously termed Dent’s disease or Dent disease. Wrong’s insights, which made this previously relatively neglected disease well-known, have prompted the suggestion that the disease should more properly be termed ‘Dent-Wrong’ disease.\n\nWrong’s identification of Dent and Friedman’s second patient as having ‘clinical’ Dent Disease was expanded when, in 2005, Scheinman’s group identified this patient and his family as having mutations not in CLCN5, the gene mutated in most of the families with Dent disease originally identified, but in a quite different gene OCRL1. This gene had been identified earlier as mutated\nin patients with ‘Lowe Syndrome’. Wrong’s discoveries had led to the identification of two new ‘new’ hereditary diseases, each based on one of Dent and Friedman’s original patients, and one ‘Dent Disease Type 1’ due to CLCN5 mutation and the other, ‘Dent Disease Type 2’ due to OCRL1\nmutation.\n\nWrong, who had been diagnosed with idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis seven years earlier, was working on his final paper when admitted to Intensive Care Unit at UCH, the hospital at which he had spent most of his professional life. The paper, published posthumously, describes a variant of autosomal dominant distal RTA, due to SLC4A1 mutations, originally found in SE Asia. In that final paper, Wrong presented a novel hypothesis to explain the frequency of the mutations in the tropics despite their adverse clinical effects. He suggested that changes in red cell metabolism might protect against malaria, a major killer in the region.\n\nProfessor Wrong's papers are stored at the Wellcome Trust Library, 183\nEuston Road, London.\n\nOliver Wrong married Marilda Musacchio, a primary school teacher from the Val d'Aosta, Italy, in\n1956. They had three daughters, one of whom is the author and journalist Michela Wrong.\n"}
{"id": "10437050", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10437050", "title": "Paroxysmal nonkinesigenic dyskinesia", "text": "Paroxysmal nonkinesigenic dyskinesia\n\nParoxysmal Nonkinesigenic Dyskinesia (PNKD) is an episodic movement disorder first described by Mount and Reback in 1940 under the name \"Familial paroxysmal choreoathetosis\". It is a rare hereditary disease that affects various muscular and nervous systems in the body, passing to roughly fifty percent of the offspring.\n\nThe condition manifests itself as attacks lasting from a few minutes to several hours. Episodes only happen when the individual is awake, and they remain conscious throughout the attack. Symptoms are most severe in youth and lessen with age. Sufferers can have multiple attacks on a daily basis or may have periods of weeks or months between attacks. Symptoms experienced during attacks can vary and include dystonia, chorea, athetosis, ballismus, or a combination.\n\nWhile not the same in all people, there are several common triggers that can precipitate an attack:\nIt has been mapped to chromosome 2q31-36.\n\nIt has been associated with PNKD.\nMost pharmacological treatments work poorly, but the best treatment is a low dosage of clonazepam, a muscle relaxant. Patients may also benefit from other benzodiazepines, phenobarbital, and other anticonvulsants such as valproic acid. Affected individuals have reported garlic to be effective for softening the attacks, but no studies have been done on this.\n"}
{"id": "38672365", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38672365", "title": "Platzspitz park", "text": "Platzspitz park\n\nThe Platzspitz park is a park in Zurich, located next to the Swiss National Museum. \n\nHistory of the park goes back to the Middle Ages. Positioned between the Sihl and Limmat rivers, it was originally used as a hunting and shooting ground in the 14th century, and by the end of the 18th century the park was also adorned with beautiful Baroque architecture.\n\nDuring the 1980s, heroin addicts would frequently gather at the park, and attempts to disperse them merely resulted in them regrouping elsewhere. Thus in 1987 the authorities chose to allow illegal drug use and sales at the park, in an effort to contain Zurich's growing drug problem. Police were not allowed to enter the park or make arrests. Clean needles were given out to addicts as part of the Zurich Intervention Pilot Project, or ZIPP-AIDS program. However, lack of control over what went on in the park caused a multitude of problems. Drug dealers and users arrived from all over Europe, and crime became rampant as dealers fought for control and addicts (who numbered up to 20,000) stole to support their habit. The once-beautiful gardens had degraded into a mess of mud and used needles, and the emergency services were overwhelmed with the number of overdoses, which were almost nightly. Platzspitz, or Needle Park as it was then known, became a source of embarrassment to the Swiss government and in 1992, police moved in to clear up the park.\n\nToday Platzspitz has been cleaned up and restored, and is presented by the authorities as a peaceful, family-friendly garden.\n\nOne structure that stands out is the gazebo that stands just behind the Swiss National Museum. It is very close to Zurich's main railway station. The Gazebo is a vestige of the first Switzerland's National Exhibition of 1883. It was first built to be a musical pavilion, a function it still serves to this day. \n"}
{"id": "27668861", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27668861", "title": "Pocock boundary", "text": "Pocock boundary\n\nThe Pocock boundary is a method for determining whether to stop a clinical trial prematurely. The typical clinical trial compares two groups of patients. One group are given a placebo or conventional treatment, while the other group of patients are given the treatment that is being tested. The investigators running the clinical trial will wish to stop the trial early for ethical reasons if the treatment group clearly shows evidence of benefit. In other words, \"when early results proved so promising it was no longer fair to keep patients on the older drugs for comparison, without giving them the opportunity to change.\"\n\nThe concept was introduced by the medical statistician Stuart Pocock in 1977. The many reasons underlying when to stop a clinical trial for benefit were discussed in his editorial from 2005.\n\nThe Pocock boundary gives a \"p\"-value threshold for each interim analysis which guides the data monitoring committee on whether to stop the trial. The boundary used depends on the number of interim analyses.\n\nThe Pocock boundary is simple to use in that the \"p\"-value threshold is the same at each interim analysis. The disadvantages are that the number of interim analyses must be fixed at the start and it is not possible under this scheme to add analyses after the trial has started. Another disadvantage is that investigators and readers frequently do not understand how the \"p\"-values are reported: for example, if there are five interim analyses planned, but the trial is stopped after the third interim analysis because the \"p\"-value was 0.01, then the overall \"p\"-value for the trial is still reported as <0.05 and not as 0.01.\n\n"}
{"id": "5934544", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5934544", "title": "Shared care", "text": "Shared care\n\nShared care involves the establishment of partnerships between professionals and laymen in which they share a common goal. Examples are an improvement in the health of a patient where there is patient empowerment to take a major degree of responsibility care and arrangements in which the life of a disadvantaged person is improved by the joint efforts of a social service and an outside lay provider. In truly shared care, the partnership is a genuinely equal one with neither partner being subservient or superior.\n\nShared care is a term largely used in health care and social care in Great Britain.\n\nIn a more mainstream health-orientated context, the term can be used for the schemes involving patient empowerment that are targeted at medical problems as substance abuse and diabetes. While generally welcomed, shared care approaches can raise concerns about what is expected from different individuals and, for healthcare professionals, the consequent legal implications of changes in liability.\n\nIn complementary medicine, the term can be used for such therapies as hypnosis or Alexander Technique in which the therapist is an enabler rather than a paternalistic prescriber (Alexander Technique practitioners even call themselves \"teachers\").\n\nShared care is used in a social context to describe the activities of organisations that provide short breaks for disadvantaged children or those helping to enlist families for short term fostering. In each case, there is significant input from the nonprofessional supervised by the professional. The practice is widespread with examples throughout the country of this usage, with clients from all age groups and types of disabilities or social problems.\n\nThe Child Support Agency uses the term for a very specific purpose: \"it refers to each of the separated parents having the children with them part of the time, so that direct expenditure is shared too.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "48188007", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48188007", "title": "Siniša Varga", "text": "Siniša Varga\n\nSiniša Varga (born August 24, 1965) is a Croatian dentist and politician who served as Minister of Health in the centre-left Cabinet of Zoran Milanović from 2014 until 2016.\n\nVarga was born on August 24, 1965 in Zagreb. He graduated in 1990 at the Faculty of Dentistry, University of Zagreb.\n\nFrom 1993 to 1997 he specialized in prosthodontics at the Dental Clinic of the Clinical Hospital Centre Zagreb. As part of his specialized practice in 1995 he worked in Gothenburg (Sweden) at Branemark Implantology Clinic. In 1997, as a specialist in dental prosthetics, he was head of the surgical prosthetics, Clinical Department of Oral Surgery, for surgery of the face and jaw, at University Hospital Dubrava. The center is the only one of its kind in Croatia.\n\nHis special interest in general and health management earned him a degree of international quality systems manager for the International Standard ISO 9001: 2000 from the European Organization for Quality.\n\nFrom 2000 to 2002, he worked as a consultant for the World Bank project on health care reform in the Republic of Croatia. During this period he was an assistant director of the Clinical Hospital Dubrava. In 2004, Varga became responsible for the organization of the teaching module \"Resource Management in Health Care\", study \"Leadership and Management of Health and Science\" at the School of Public Health \"Andrija Štampar\" at University of Zagreb.\n\nIn 2008 he became a consultant on a World Bank project to reform health care in Bosnia and Herzegovina.\n\nHe is a member of the Croatian Dental Society, Croatian Medical Association, where he served as the Secretary-General for two four-year terms. He is a member of the Croatian Society of Volunteers of Croatian Homeland war for independence, the Croatian Society of Quality Managers and the Croatian Standards Institute in two technical committees: dentistry and quality management. Varga is a court expert for prosthodontics and a mentor for education of new experts.\n\nFrom 2002 to 2004 he was an official of the Croatian Government in the Ministry of Health and Social Welfare, as the deputy minister of health for professional medical affairs. The government appointed Varga to a working group for preparation of negotiations for European Union accession in 2007. In 2010 Siniša Varga became a member of the Croatian Social Democratic Party. After directing the Croatian Institute for Health Insurance from April 2012 to June 2014, the government appointed him as Minister of Health.\n\nVarga is married and has two children. He was a volunteer in Croatian War of Independence and holds a memorial of Homeland war. He speaks English and some French. He is an active member of the Rotary Club of Zagreb through which he supports humanitarian actions.\n"}
{"id": "19108848", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19108848", "title": "Slow Food Nation", "text": "Slow Food Nation\n\nSlow Food Nation was an event organized by Slow Food USA, which celebrates slow and sustainable foods. Slow Food Nation attracted an estimated audience of more than 50,000 people. Held over the Labor Day weekend from August 29 to September 1, 2008, the majority of the event took place in either San Francisco's Civic Center and Fort Mason Center. Slow Food Nation's founder is influential chef and author Alice Waters. In addition to a specially-created \"victory garden\" in front of San Francisco City Hall, a marketplace, tastings, photo exhibits , and other events, Slow Food Nation featured panels led by food luminaries such as Michael Pollan and Eric Schlosser, as well as the founder of Slow Food, Carlo Petrini.\n\n"}
{"id": "6165303", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6165303", "title": "Smokeasy", "text": "Smokeasy\n\nA smokeasy (also spelled smoke-easy or smokeeasy) is a business, especially a bar or drinking venue, which allows smoking despite a smoking ban enacted as a criminal law or an occupational safety and health regulation. The term is also used to describe locations and events promoted by tobacco companies to avoid or evade bans on smoking. The word was added to the \"New Oxford American Dictionary\" in 2005, although it was used as early as 1978. It is a portmanteau of \"smoking\" and \"speakeasy\".\n\nSmoking bans have been pejoratively described as a type of sumptuary law, a law that attempts to regulate habits of consumption, like the prohibition of alcohol and drug prohibition. Such prohibitions tend to trigger underground economies. For, when a sector of the population is prohibited by law from consuming a certain good, or consuming a certain good in a certain way, inevitably, some will flout that prohibition and provide the good or the means of consuming the good in a black-market fashion. Thus, just as prohibition in the United States led to the speakeasy (an establishment in which alcohol was sold in contravention of the law), so too have smoking bans led to the smokeasy.\n\nSome smokeasy operators simply operate openly, calculating that the fines they will pay are merely a cost of doing business. Others employ stealth tactics; for example, in Philadelphia, where it is illegal to have an ashtray in the workplace, smokeasy bartenders sometimes will use cups filled with some water to serve as ashtrays. A visit from the city inspector then merely requires getting customers to extinguish their smoking materials and disposing of the cigarette butts.\n\nBecause smokeasies are breaking the law, usually locations are spread by word-of-mouth; they even may involve the swearing of secrecy. Although some smokeasies are underground establishments, others are ordinary bars that covertly permit smoking in the evening.\n\nSometimes businesses choose to openly defy existing smoking bans due to loss of business. There are cases in which establishments risk closure and heavy fines to draw attention to the issue, which includes being documented in the press as a smokeasy.\n\nTobacco companies have used a variety of tactics to encourage the sale and consumption of cigarettes in the presence of smoking bans, and the term smokeasy has commonly been used to describe events and establishments of this kind. Imperial Tobacco hires public venues to promote its Peter Stuyvesant brand. In Chicago, RJ Reynolds established an \"upscale smoking lounge\" serving alcohol and food, but classified as a retail tobacco store.\n\nWithin one month of the passage of New York City's smoking ban in 2003, smokeasies were quickly predicted. Shortly thereafter, some bartenders began to hear word of smokeasies and theorized that some former regulars who were smokers had switched to the smokeasies. Today, both covert and overt smokeasies exist throughout New York City and the whole state of New York. As a result, New York City unexpectedly had to begin a campaign of enforcing its smoking ban: in 2005–2006, the city issued 601 citations to smokeasies, including 232 in Queens, 158 in Manhattan, 126 in Brooklyn, 73 in The Bronx and 12 in Staten Island.\n\nIn Hawaii, a large number of establishments openly defy the statewide smoking ban, one of America's strictest, which went into effect on November 16, 2006. Several bars have disclosed their defiance in local newspapers and have invited television stations to film the unlawful smoking. As of 2010, no bar has been fined, and open defiance continues. Up to half of the bar owners in Honolulu have signed statements claiming losses averaging 30% and expressed open concern at the anti-smoking lobby claim that it would not affect business, a claim that was later reinforced by the Hawaii Department of Health's air quality study and Honolulu Liquor Commission sales data. As a result, proposals currently are before the Hawaii Legislature to exempt bars from the statewide smoking ban by creating a new type of liquor license which permits the licensee to allow smoking.\n\nWith the passing of a 2008 smoking ban, many Dutch cafes had become smokeasies despite facing fines up to 18,500 Euros. The Dutch pub owners viewed their defiance as necessary to stay in business, with the group Save the Small Cafe Owners stating the ban has cost them 1/3 of their business. The same groups also organized a 1500-5000 owner strong public protest of the ban in November, 2008. \n\nAfter two years of continued opposition by bar and cafe owners, in the fall of 2010 the Dutch government repealed the ban for smaller bars and cafes which had complained loudly about loss of business.\n\nSmokeasies have become a noted phenomenon in most jurisdictions with a ban on smoking in bars and/or restaurants, including Alberta, Arizona, Boston, California, Colorado, Columbia, Missouri, Delaware, Dublin, Germany, Illinois, Manitoba, Minnesota, Ohio, Philadelphia, Qatar, Seattle, South Carolina, Toronto, the United Kingdom, Thailand, Utah, and Washington, D.C.\n\n"}
{"id": "12009443", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12009443", "title": "St. John Providence Health System", "text": "St. John Providence Health System\n\nSt. John Providence is a non-profit corporation that owns and operates four hospitals and over 125 medical facilities in the U.S. state of Michigan. Its headquarters are in the St. John Providence Corporate Services Building in Warren in Metro Detroit. The parent company of St. John Providence is Ascension in St. Louis. \n\nThe organization has more than 18,000 employees and operates 2,033 licensed beds.\n\nThe system started in 1999 with the merger of the Providence Health System and the St. John Health System into the St. John Health System due to the merger of the two systems' respective Roman Catholic congregation sponsors, the Daughters of Charity and the Sisters of St. Joseph, into Ascension Health. The St. John Hospital System, under Anthony R. Tersigni, grew from four to ten hospitals. In May 2000 he was appointed as the senior vice president of Ascension Health's Great Lakes Division.\n\nBy 2001, the Emergency Center staff was treating more than 76,400 patients as a major level-two emergency center for the east side community.\n\nIn 2003 the hospital stated that it expected to have a $40 million loss for its 2004 fiscal year. In 2003 the system supported a proposed Michigan law that would allow the state health systems to move more hospital beds from Detroit to the suburbs.\n\nIn 2008 the system had 18,000 employees. On April 8 of that year Patricia A. Maryland, the system CEO, announced that as part of a $85 million cost cutting restructuring, the company planned to lay off 300 non-clinical workers with almost 50 management positions being cut. She also announced that the system would not fill 100 job vacancies, including 40 vacancies for management positions.\n\nIn 2010 St. John Health System was renamed to the St. John Providence Health System. The organization officials stated that \"Providence\" was added to the name in order to reflect the system's \"spiritually centered patient care experience\".\n\nIn 1910 the Providence Hospital opened in Detroit. The Sisters of St. Joseph built St. John Hospital in 1952, with 250 beds and 70 employees on Moross Road at the old Beaupre farm in a section called the “widow’s dower.” Work on the hospital began immediately following the groundbreaking ceremony on March 8, 1948, the feast of St. John of God (who in 1540 established a house to harbor poor and sick persons). Four-and-a-half year old Brenda Kay Earle was the hospital’s first patient on May 15, 1952. Also in that year, Randall John Stewart was the first baby born there. In 2006, there were 4,900 employees and a 700-member medical staff. The hospital’s Emergency Room treated 8,287 patients during 1956, its first year. Fr. Solanus Casey, the first United States-born man to be declared \"venerable\" by the Roman Catholic Church, died on July 31, 1957, in St. John Hospital (in Room 305 of the old wing, which has a plaque outside the door) at the age of 86.\n\nIn the 1960s Providence Hospital moved to Southfield.\n\nThe Men’s Guild began in 1948 and is believed to have been the first men’s hospital fund raising group in the United States. It has 750 members that support its philanthropic efforts, highlighted by the Annual Guild Dinner.\n\nSt. John Providence is a member of the Roman Catholic Ascension Health Care System and operates the following hospitals:\n\n\nIt previously operated the St. John NorthEast Community Hospital in Detroit. It had 295 beds. By 2003 the health system stated that it will remake the hospital into an outpatient center. In 2003 The Holy Cross Foundation made an initial offer to buy the hospital. The St. John System rejected the initial offer and stated that it still planned to remake the hospital, but the Holy Cross Foundation planned to make another offer.\n\nIn 2007 the St. John Riverview Hospital in Detroit closed. In 2011 the system sold the St. John Senior Community Center and the closed Riverview Hospital, both in Detroit, to DRSN, an investment group.\n\nSt. John Hospital’s Neonatal Intensive Care Unit (NICU) opened in 1970. St. John is also a regional referral center for high-risk pregnancies. In 1952 there were 855 births took place in the first delivery rooms back versus 3,893 in 2001 at the St. John Birthing Center. The facility is able to serve 31 mothers, infants and families for labor, delivery, recovery and postpartum care.\n\nSt. John offers diagnostic, surgical and non-surgical cardiac treatment. The first laparoscopic gallbladder removal procedure in Michigan was performed in 1989 at St. John. The Transplant Specialty Center opened in 1990 and in 1992 the first pancreas transplant took place.\nIn 1993, the first kidney removal using a laparoscope was performed. Before the end of 2000, the Transplant Specialty Center had performed its 500th organ transplant.\n\nThe St. John Hospital and Medical Center Oncology Department began in 1968 and is now located in the recently opened Van Elslander Cancer Center (VECC) on the hospital's campus. The facility focuses on offering holistic treatment and conventional cancer therapies.\n\nAffiliated with the University of Michigan Cancer Center Network, the VanElslander Cancer Center, along with the University of Michigan and other St. John Health System hospitals treats more than 14,000 new cancer cases every year.\n\nSt. John Providence teaching hospitals educate new physicians in family medicine, general surgery, internal medicine, OB/GYN, radiology, pathology, pediatrics, podiatric surgery and emergency medicine for physicians' post-medical school training, plus residency in Pharmacy Practices for post-degree students. In addition, St. John serves as a practical training site for students of Nursing, Pharmacy, Medical Laboratory Science, and Physical and Occupational Therapy, among others.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54745677", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54745677", "title": "Tom Blackburn (pharmacologist)", "text": "Tom Blackburn (pharmacologist)\n\nTom Blackburn FBPharmacolS, FRSB (born 1949) is a British industrial pharmacologist.\n\nBlackburn studied at both the University of Nottingham and Manchester University, and worked as a senior manager at ICI Pharmaceuticals, Beecham Pharmaceuticals SmithKline Beecham, Synaptic Pharmaceutical Corporation and Helicon Therapeutics.\n\nHe is the author of over 100 scientific papers, reviews and book chapters and holds over 20 patents. He is President Emeritus of the British Pharmacological Society and is a member of the American College of Neuropsychopharmacology.\n\nHe was elected an Honorary Fellow of the British Pharmacological Society (Hon FBPharmacolS) in 2014 and is a Fellow of the Royal Society of Biology (FRSB).\n\n"}
{"id": "53752564", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53752564", "title": "Toni Antonucci", "text": "Toni Antonucci\n\nToni C. Antonucci is an American psychologist, currently the Elizabeth R. Douvan Collegiate Professor at University of Michigan and formerly President of Gerontological Society of America\n"}
{"id": "52714956", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52714956", "title": "Willy Angerer", "text": "Willy Angerer\n\nWilly Angerer (c. 1905 – July 21, 1936) was an Austrian mountaineer. He was one of four mountaineers who died in the 1936 Eiger north face climbing disaster, along with Toni Kurz, Andreas Hinterstoisser and Eduard Rainer. At twenty-seven Angerer was the oldest of the four climbers who died.\n\nIn the 1930s the mile-high north-face of the Eiger, that in the 1930s was considered to be the \"last great Alpine problem\". In the summer of 1935 two Bavarian climbers died attempting the climb despite a rescue attempt. Four climbers, two Austrians and two Germans, arrived in Alpiglen, a settlement of Grindelwald, in July 1936, intending to climb independently.\n\nThe two Austrians, Angerer and Rainer, reconnoitered the route for a good line on July 6 because the previous attempt by Karl Mehringer and Max Sedlmeyer had taken two days to climb the first 700 meters and their conditions were not good, so retreated. On 18 July Angerer and Rainer returned to the mountain to restart their attempt. A rock fall injured Angerer in the head on 20 July 1936, forcing them to descend. However, when they reached the very difficult \"Hinterstoisser traverse\", now ice covered due to the worsening weather conditions, from which the rope had been removed on the way up, they were unable to retreat through to safety and were forced to descend straight down. They were hit by an avalanche which carried Hinterstoisser away, while Angerer was violently crushed against the wall and strangled to death by the rope around his neck. Rainer, being pressed against the rock wall with the rope tight around his waist, froze to death. The only survivor, Toni Kurz, died the next day, within a few meters above his rescuers, but inaccessible.\n\nKurz was the last to die, hanging in his harness a few meters from a tunnel opening where a rescue team tried in vain to help him. With the mounting deaths on the Eiger's north face, the German press name \"Nordwand\" (North wall) was soon punned in sensational reports as \"Mordwand\" that translates in English as \"murder wall\".\n\nAngerer and his fellow alpinists' tragedy became well known after the publication of Heinrich Harrer's classic 1960 book \"The White Spider.\" The Edward Whymper disaster, during which four alpinists died, on the first ascent of the Matterhorn seventy-one years before, had formerly been the most publicised Alpine disaster. The 1936 event was covered by Joe Simpson's 2007 book (and Emmy-winning TV documentary), \"The Beckoning Silence\", as well as in the 2008 German dramatic movie \"North Face\".\n\n"}
{"id": "36114534", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36114534", "title": "Women's Global Network for Reproductive Rights", "text": "Women's Global Network for Reproductive Rights\n\nWomen's Global Network for Reproductive Rights (WGNRR) is an international non-governmental organization (NGO) that advocates for sexual and reproductive health and rights worldwide. Based in the Global South, they are a membership-driven organization that \"works within the rights, justice and feminist frameworks.\" WGNRR works towards the realization of the full sexual and reproductive health and rights. WGNRR has consultative status with ECOSOC.\n\nWGNRR was founded at the fourth International Women and Health Meeting in 1984. The conference was themed \"No to Population Control... Women Decide!\" and saw the formation of other important international networks including Women Living Under Muslim Laws (WLUML) and Latin American Women and Health Network. In 1987, at another IWHM conference, WGNRR partnered with the Latin America and Caribbean Women’s Health Network to launch a campaign addressing maternal mortality and declared May 28 the International Day of Action for Women's Health. WGNRR was an active participant in the International Conference “Reinforcing Reproductive Rights”, held in Madras, India in 1993. It was this year that WGNRR began campaigning for safe and legal abortion. WGNRR's position on abortion was critical during the International Conference on Population and Development (ICPD) in 1994. According to their website, \"WGNRR was part of a coalition – the Women’s Alliance – to ensure that women’s voices were heard and represented at the conference. that protested the population control theories that abounded at the time. WGNRR was also involved in workshops protesting the use of anti-fertility “vaccines”. WGNRR’s support of the ICPD’s inclusion of right to access of safe abortion was still tempered by its concern over the language and the fear of the misuse of such a document by proponents of coerced population control.\" In 1995, WGNRR undertook campaigns to address the feminisation of poverty and was an active participant in the development of the Programme of Action for the Women’s World Conference in Beijing. Following the Cairo Consensus, WGNRR held a 1996 Regional Members' Meeting in Amsterdam. Between 2003 to 2007, WGNRR collaborated with the People’s Health Movement on the Women’s Access to Health campaign. WGNRR then relocated its main office to the Global South and by 2009, the main office was transferred from the Netherlands to the Philippines.\n\n\nWGNRR has facilitated several international campaigns on a wide range of issues including maternal mortality and morbidity, poverty, forced sterilization and the sexual and reproductive rights of youth. Since its inception, WGNRR has used \"Calls for Action\" to mobilize members. WGNRR's two primary campaigns are the International Day of Action for Women's Health (May 28) and the International Day of Action for Access to Safe and Legal Abortion (September 28).\n\nSeptember 28 was chosen as the date for the Latin American and Caribbean Campaign for the Decriminalization of Abortion in 1990. In 2015, the name of the day was changed to International Safe Abortion Day in an attempt to have a simpler, easier to remember name and to advocate for the day to become an official UN day. \n\nWGNRR works in partnership with and has received recent funding from Oxfam Novib and The Safe Abortion Action Fund (SAAF).\n"}
