{"id": "17114107", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17114107", "title": "Abby", "text": "Abby\n\nAbby or Abbie is generally a nickname for Abigail (name), but can also be a given name in its own right. It may refer to:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1146341", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1146341", "title": "Abdelaziz of Morocco", "text": "Abdelaziz of Morocco\n\nAbdelaziz of Morocco (24 February 187810 June 1943; ), also known as Mulai Abd al-Aziz IV, succeeded his father Hassan I of Morocco as the Sultan of Morocco in 1894 at the age of sixteen and served in that position until he was deposed in 1908. He was a member of the Alaouite dynasty.\n\nBy the action of Ba Ahmad bin Musa, the Chamberlain of Hassan I of Morocco, Abd al-Aziz's accession to the sultanate was ensured with little fighting. Ba Ahmad became regent and for six years showed himself a capable ruler. There were strong rumors that he was poisoned.\n\nOn his death in 1900 the regency ended, and Abd al-Aziz took the reins of government into his own hands and chose an Arab from the south, El Menebhi, as his chief adviser.\n\nAs urged by his Georgian or Circassian mother, the sultan sought advice and counsel from Europe and endeavored to act on it, but advice not motivated by a conflict of interest was difficult to obtain, and in spite of the unquestionable desire of the young ruler to do what was best for the country, wild extravagance both in action and expenditure resulted, leaving the sultan with a depleted exchequer and the confidence of his people impaired. His intimacy with foreigners and his imitation of their ways were sufficient to rouse strong popular opposition.\n\nHis attempt to reorganize the country's finances by the systematic levy of taxes was hailed with delight, but the government was not strong enough to carry the measures through, and the money which should have been used to pay the taxes was employed to purchase firearms instead. And so the benign intentions of Mulai Abd el-Aziz were interpreted as weakness, and Europeans were accused of having spoiled the sultan and of being desirous of spoiling the country.\n\nWhen British engineers were employed to survey the route for a railway between Meknes and Fez, this was reported as indicating the sale of the country outright. The strong opposition of the people was aroused, and a revolt broke out near the Algerian frontier. Such was the state of things when the news of the Anglo-French Agreement of 1904 came as a blow to Abd-el-Aziz, who had relied on England for support and protection against the inroads of France. See also the Ion Perdicaris affair.\n\nOn the advice of Germany, Abdelaziz proposed an international conference at Algeciras in 1906 to consult upon methods of reform, the sultan's desire being to ensure a state of affairs which would leave foreigners with no excuse to interfere in the control of the country and thereby promote its welfare, which he had earnestly desired from his accession to power. This was not, however, the result achieved (see main article), and while on June 18 the sultan nonetheless ratified the resulting Act of the conference, which the country's delegates had found themselves unable to sign, the anarchic state into which Morocco fell during the latter half of 1906 and the beginning of 1907 revealed the young ruler as lacking sufficient strength to command the respect of his turbulent subjects.\n\nIn May 1907 the southern aristocrats, led by the head of the Glaoua tribe Si Elmadani El Glaoui, invited Abdelhafid, an elder brother of Abdelaziz, and viceroy at Marrakech, to become sultan, and the following August Abdelhafid was proclaimed sovereign there with all the usual formalities.\n\nIn the meantime, the deaths of Europeans in Casablanca during a riot incited by European engineers' construction of a railroad over a Moroccan cemetery that June had led to the port's occupation by France. In September Abd-el-Aziz arrived at Rabat from Fez and endeavored to secure the support of the European powers against his brother. From France he accepted the grand cordon of the Legion of Honour, and was later enabled to negotiate a loan. This was seen as leaning to Christianity and aroused further opposition to his rule, and in January 1908 he was declared deposed by the ulema of Fez, who offered the throne to Hafid.\n\nAfter months of inactivity Abdelaziz made an effort to restore his authority, and quitting Rabat in July he marched on Marrakech. His force, largely owing to treachery, was completely overthrown on August 19 when nearing that city, and Abdelaziz fled to Settat, within the French lines around Casablanca. In November he came to terms with his brother, and thereafter took up his residence in Tangier as a pensioner of the new sultan. However the exercise of Moroccan law and order continued to deteriorate under Abdelhafid, leading to the humiliating Treaty of Fez in 1912, in which European nations assumed many responsibilities for the sultanate, which was divided into three zones of influence.\n\nSultan Abdelaziz led a very active social but only semipolitical life in exile. During the Spanish annexation of Tangier in 1940, he acquiesced insofar as the Moroccan palace authorities called the \"makhzen\" played a significant role therein.\n\nAbdelaziz died in Tangier in 1943.\n\nAfter the ex-sultan's sudden death in 1943, his body was transferred to French Morocco as desired by the Sultan Mohammed V.\n\nHe was portrayed by Marc Zuber in the film \"The Wind and the Lion\" (1975), a fictional version of the Ion Perdicaris affair.\n\n\n\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "1596785", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1596785", "title": "Abdul-Halim Sadulayev", "text": "Abdul-Halim Sadulayev\n\nAbdul-Halim Salamovich Sadulayev ( ; Chechen: Сайд-Iелийн Абусаламин кІант Iабдул-Хьалим \"Sadulin Abusalamin-Kant Abdulhalim\", Russian: Абдул-Халим Саламович Сайдулаев \"Abdul-Khalim Salamovich Saydulayev\") (2 June 1966 – 17 June 2006) was the fourth President of the Chechen Republic of Ichkeria. Sadulayev served little more than a full year as President before being killed in a gun battle with FSB and pro-Russian Chechen forces.\n\nSadulayev was the first Chechen rebel leader effectively attempting to unify the Islamic rebel forces outside Chechnya, as he had won pledges of loyalty not only from Chechen separatists, but also from Islamist groups seeking the overthrow of the Kremlin's authority across the North Caucasus; this formation became known as the Caucasian Front. He was also credited with persuading radical warlord Shamil Basayev not to carry out any major terrorist attacks since Beslan.\n\nThere is considerable variation in writing his name in both English and Russian sources. His surname is variously written Sadulaev, Sadulayev, Saidulaev, Saidulayev, Saidullaev, Saidullayev or Saydullayev; the first two of these seem to be favored by insurgent sources, while the others are favored by Russian sources and Western media. His first name is also written Abdul-Khalim, and is sometimes written with or without a hyphen. In Russian his name with surname is written Абдул-Халим Сайдуллаев or Абдул-Халим Сайдулаев or Абдул-Халим Садулаев, with or without the hyphen.\n\nHis full name given by the separatist website Kavkaz Center appears to be Abdul-Halim Abu-Salamovich Sadulayev (Абдул-Халим Абу-Саламович Садулаев).\n\nSadulayev was born into the Biltoy branch of the Ustradoi teip, an influential clan in the town of Argun on the plains of central Chechnya to the east of Grozny.http://www.waynakh.com/eng/2008/05/abdul-khalim-salamovich-sadullayev/ After growing up in Argun, he entered Grozny's university to study Chechen and Russian philology, but had to break off his studies as the First Chechen War with the Russian Federation broke out in 1994. He joined an Argun militia to fight against the Russians as a volunteer fighter.\n\nSadulayev also studied Islam under local Islamic theologians, and from 1996 began appearing regularly on Chechen television speaking about Islam. He lectured across Chechnya, and eventually ended up leading Argun's Muslim community as the town's Imam. Sadulayev made the Hajj pilgrimage to Mecca, the only time he is known to have left his homeland.\n\nSadulayev became the leader of the only Argun \"jamaat\" in his city, which was known to carry out missionary activities, as well as policing the neighborhoods. Apart from their religious & civil functions, most of the jamaats in Chechnya also represented military detachments formed to guard villages and towns against the Russian Military and bandits alike. During a standoff between a group of foreign radicals and Chechen authorities in 1998, Sadulayev sided against Khabib Abdurrakhman, a Jordanian leader of a small Foreign/Chechen jamaat who was amassing a militia & advocating extreme violence against Russian and Non-Islamic Chechen peoples alike. After these events, Abdurrakhman was stripped of his Chechen citizenship and declared persona non grata in Chechnya; he died in 2001 while fighting in one of the jamaats as a regular soldier.\n\nIn 1999, Aslan Maskhadov appointed Sadulayev to a commission for constitutional Sharia reform, a commission then headed by Akhmad Kadyrov, who would later reject the rebels and embrace Moscow. Maskhadov offered Sadulaev the position of the head of the Supreme Sharia Court of Chechnya, but Sadulaev turned down the offer, explaining that he did not have sufficient clerical knowledge to judge other people.\n\nWhen the Second Chechen War started Sadulayev again returned to fighting, commanding the popular militia from Argun. Since 1999, Sadulaev had been one of Maskhadov's most loyal field commanders. In 2002, he was designated by Maskhadov to be his successor as president of Chechen Republic of Ichkeria.\n\nShortly following Maskhadov's death on 8 March 2005, the Chechen rebel council announced that Sadulayev had assumed Maskhadov's position, a move that was quickly endorsed by Shamil Basayev, the Chechens' highest-profile guerrilla commander. After assuming power, Sadulayev called for expanding the Chechnya conflict into a \"decolonization\" of Muslim-dominated adjoining regions and adoption of a constitution based on Islamic law, or Sharia. He also strongly condemned hostage takings and said that after the end of the war the new president should be democratically elected.\n\nSadulayev had not only an ideological commitment to maintaining the conflict, but perhaps a personal one as well. Chechen insurgent sources claim that his wife was kidnapped in 2003 by Russian spetsnaz forces and killed by the FSB when attempts to buy her back failed. He had worked to eliminate terrorist violence and urged Basayev and other warlords to direct attacks on \"legitimate targets\" (including law enforcement officials, federal troops and local civil servants and their offices), and stressed that attacks on such targets should avoid injuring civilians. He appeared to have convinced Basayev, who was enlisted in the formation of the Caucasian Front, that giving up on civilian targets would help spread the insurgency across the North Caucasus.\n\nIn February 2006, Sadulayev announced a cabinet reshuffle targeting several top rebel representatives living abroad, including Akhmed Zakayev, who was dismissed as deputy prime minister. Sadulayev also signed a decree ordering all his ministers to be based in Chechnya.\n\nOn 17 June 2006, Sadulayev was killed in a gun battle with the FSB and pro-Moscow militiamen in Argun. According to the FSB chief Nikolai Patrushev, two members of the federal forces were killed and five were wounded in a firefight in which Sadulayev and his bodyguard were killed, and two other rebels escaped. In August 2006, rebel commander Isa Muskiev said the federals and the \"kadyrovtsy\" lost five men killed in the shootout, one of them shot by Sadulayev personally, and three fighters escaped.\n\nThe body was later moved to Ramzan Kadyrov's hometown of Tsentoroi. Kadyrov said an informant had tipped off police for drug money. Kadyrov said that his paramilitary police had wanted to capture Sadulayev but were forced to kill him when he resisted arrest, and also stated Sadulayev was in Argun organizing \"a big terrorist attack\" to coincide with the Group of Eight summit in St. Petersburg to take place in July. The killing of Sheikh Abdul Halim was mentioned by leaders of the Moscow-backed official government of the province, claiming that the separatist forces there had been dealt a \"decapitating\" blow \"from which they will never recover.\"\n\nThe next day, 18 June, Sadulayev was succeeded as head of the Chechen resistance by the rebel vice-president and an active guerrilla commander Dokka Umarov.\n\nOn 20 June 2006, the Russian human rights organization Memorial posted the findings of its investigation on the \"Kavkazky Uzel\" website. According to Memorial's version, Sadulayev's death was accidental; security officials did not know that he was in the house. Memorial reports that on 17 June, about 10:00 a.m., a group of 12 FSB officers and local policemen approached a possible rebel safe house. They immediately came under gunfire as they entered the yard. Two of the servicemen were killed, and the group retreated after throwing a hand grenade into a window of the house. The grenade blast killed Abdul-Halim. This version is contradicted by the official account.\n\n"}
{"id": "32111438", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32111438", "title": "Abu al-Majd ibn Abi al-Hakam", "text": "Abu al-Majd ibn Abi al-Hakam\n\nAbu al-Majd ibn Abi al-Hakam Ubaydullah Ibn al-Muzaffar al-Bahili (; d. 1174 CE) was an Andalusian-Arab physician, musician and astrologer of the Islamic Golden Age who resided in Damascus, Syria.\n\nWhen Nur ad-Din Zangi founded the Bimaristan in Damascus, he entrusted the medical care of the patients to Abu al-Majd ibn Abi al-Hakam. Of Ibn Abi al-Hakam, the historian Ibn Abi Usaybi'a states that he: \nused to examine the patients at the hospital, take note of their condition and listen to their complaints in the presence of the nurses and porters, who were charged with looking after them. All methods of treatment and prescriptions which he gave were carried out to the letter. After finishing his ward round, he would pass on to a magnificently furnished hall to consult there various scientific works...There all physicians and students gathered round him in order to discuss medical points. When he had asked questions of his pupils and worked for about three hours in the wards and in the library, he would return to his home\".\n"}
{"id": "19748100", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19748100", "title": "Aita Donostia", "text": "Aita Donostia\n\nJosé Gonzalo Zulaica (10 January 1886 in San Sebastián, Spain – 30 August 1956), better known by his pen name Aita Donostia (Father Donostia or Father San Sebastian, because he was a priest born in San Sebastian, Donostia in the Basque language), was a Basque musicologist and composer. He was also known as José Antonio de Donostia.\n\nFrom 1936 to 1943 he was in exile in France.\nHis most popular work is the \"Basque Preludes\", a set of fifteen piano pieces inspired by Basque traditional music, arranged in a very romantic way, that reminds Robert Schumann's and Edvard Grieg's styles.\n\n"}
{"id": "399536", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=399536", "title": "Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani", "text": "Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani\n\nAkbar Hashemi Rafsanjani ( or Hashemi Bahramani, often mistakenly known as \"Ali Akbar\" Hashemi Rafsanjani ; 25 August 1934 – 8 January 2017) was an influential Iranian politician, writer and one of the founding fathers of the Islamic Republic who was the fourth President of Iran from 3 August 1989 until 3 August 1997. He was the head of the Assembly of Experts from 2007 until 2011, when he decided not to nominate himself for the post. He was also the chairman of the Expediency Discernment Council.\n\nDuring the final years of the Iran–Iraq War, Rafsanjani was the \"de facto\" commander-in-chief of the Iranian military. He was elected chairman of the Iranian parliament in 1980, serving until 1989. He played an important role in the choice of Ali Khamenei as Supreme Leader.\n\nRafsanjani became president of Iran after winning the 1989 election. He served another term by winning the election in 1993. In the 2005 election he ran for a third term in office, placing first in the first round of elections but ultimately losing to rival Mahmoud Ahmadinejad in the run-off. He and his family faced political isolation for their support of the opposition in 2009. Rafsanjani entered the race for the 2013 presidential election, but he was disqualified by the Guardian Council. With Hassan Rouhani's election, in which Rafsanjani openly supported him, the Rafsanjani family gradually recovered their political reputation. Rafsanjani died following a heart attack on 8 January 2017 in a hospital in Tehran at the age of 82.\n\nRafsanjani has been described as having been a pragmatic Islamic conservative. \"The Economist\" called him a \"veteran kingmaker\". He supported a free market position domestically, favoring privatization of state-owned industries and a moderate position internationally, seeking to avoid conflict with the United States and the West. He was also founder and one of the Board of Trustees of Azad University. In 2003, \"Forbes\" estimated his personal wealth to be in excess of USD$1 billion.\n\nRafsanjani was born on 25 August 1934 in the village of Bahreman near the city of Rafsanjan in Kerman Province, to a wealthy family of pistachio farmers. He had seven siblings. His father, Mirza Ali Hashemi Behramani, was one of Kerman's famous businessmen and a Pistachio merchant. His mother, Hajie Khanom Mahbibi Hashemi, died at the age of 90 on 21 December 1995. One of his brothers, Mohammad Hashemi is the former director of IRIB. Rafsanjani did not see himself as a peasant from childhood, according to family members.\n\nHe left at the age of 14 to study theology in Qom. There he became acquainted with the ideas of Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini, the most senior dissident cleric who later became the founder of the Islamic Republic, on the political rule of the clergy. He studied theology. His other teachers were Seyyed Hossein Borujerdi, Mohammad-Reza Golpaygani, Mohammad Kazem Shariatmadari, Abdul-Karim Ha'eri Yazdi, Shahab al-Din Mar'ashi Najafi, Nematollah Salehi Najafabadi, Muhammad Husayn Tabataba'i, and Hussein-Ali Montazeri.\n\nWhen he was studying at Qom Seminary, he became interested in politics under Ruhollah Khomeini. He was one of the opposition of Mohammad Reza Shah's White Revolution and accompanied with Khomeini. With Khomeini's exile, Hashemi's role in the fight against the Shah and representing Khomeini in the country was highlighted. This opposition eventually led to his arrest and imprisonment. He was arrested for 7 times from 1960 until 1979 and was in jail for four years and 5 months in total due to his clandestine activities against Pahlavi regime. Despite the anti-Western attitude of revolutionaries, he had traveled to 20 states of the United States. Although individual major pre-revolutionary speeches against Shah regime, But Khomeini acted him as financial manager of revolutionary struggle as well as connector with other revolutionary groups.\n\nAmong the groups that had a deep bond with Hashemi, was the Islamic Coalition Party, which is known as responsible for the assassination of former Prime Minister Hassan Ali Mansur. This communication was another reason for his arrest. In prison, he found the opportunity to become familiar with other groups opposed to the Shah.\n\nAfter the victory of Iranian Revolution, Hashemi became one of the members of Council of Islamic Revolution. He was one of the powerful members of the council from its establishment. He was also deputy interior minister at that time and later became the acting interior minister.\n\nHe was one of the 28 founders of Traditional right-wing Combatant Clergy Association and also one of the members of the central committee of Islamic Republican Party at the first years of the revolution. Years later, it was him that requested IRP's dissolution. His political acumen and Khomeini's full trust helped Rafsanjani as one of the most powerful politicians in Iran at that time. At the time, he was the closest person to the Khomeini and ruled as his \"eyes and ears\". According to the \"Gold\", Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps was established with the help of Hashemi.\n\nAt Iranian hostage crisis in 1980, Hashemi Rafsanjani mentioned it as \"one of the largest manufacturer in the history\". However, on the tenth anniversary of the revolution, he said in an interview that according to the experiences of these years, the hostage was \"wrong\".\n\nHashemi served as one of the Tehran's Friday Prayer Imams (for next thirty years), Representative of Khomeini at Defence High Council (after death of Mostafa Chamran) and Second-in-Command of Iran's Joint Chiefs of Staff in the last year of Iran–Iraq War. He forced Khomeini to accept to end the war. Only three months after his appointment as Iran's deputy commander-in-chief, Iran accepted United Nations Security Council Resolution 598 and eight-year war was ended.\n\nIran's first Election Law was developed with Hashemi's partnership. He nominated as one of the Islamic Republican Party's candidates in the 1980 legislative election in Tehran. He gained 1,151,514 (54%) votes and ranked 15. Rafsanjani was the Speaker of Parliament of Iran for 9 years. He was elected as the speaker in 1980 in the first season of Parliament after the Iranian Revolution. He was also chairman in the second season and first year of the third parliament. After the death of Ruhollah Khomeini, founder of the Islamic Republic and election of then-President Ali Khamenei as new supreme leader, he joined the 1989 presidential race and became the President, leaving Parliament.\n\nHe had a determining role in the dismissal of Abulhassan Banisadr as commander-in-chief of Iranian military and then his impeachment in the parliament as Iran's first president in June 1981. In the summer of 1981, he protested to the veto of the parliament's plan by the Guardian Council and informed it to Ruhollah Khomeini. This led to the establishment of Expediency Discernment Council, which later he chaired the council. He had an active role in Iran–Contra affair, which was divulged by Mehdi Hashemi and failed. Mehdi Hashemi was executed but Rafsanjani was the loser at internal dimension.\nIn October 1981 presidential election, when he voted to Ali Khamenei, he said it's vote of \"Imam (Khomeini), clerics and the parliament\". During differences between Prime Minister Mir-Hossein Mousavi and Khamenei, Hashemi cleverly managed to keep the position favor or against these two perspectives and take the middle position. According to Bahman Bakhtiari, at that time Mousavi was the leader of the left-wing, and Khamenei the right-wing. With the death of Khomeini (one of the supporters of leftists), leftists were weakened. In such circumstances, Hashemi leaped for a powerful presidency.\n\nRafsanjani adopted an \"economy-first\" policy, supporting a privatization policy against more state-owned economic tendencies in the Islamic Republic. Another source describes his administration as \"economically liberal, politically authoritarian, and philosophically traditional\" which put him in confrontation with more radical deputies in the majority in the Majles of Iran.\n\nAs president, Rafsanjani was credited with spurring Iran's reconstruction following the 1980–88 war with Iraq. His reforms, despite attempting to curb the powers of the ultra-conservatives, failed to do so, and the Iranian Revolutionary Guards received increasing power from Khamenei during his presidency. He was also accused of corruption by both conservatives and reformists, and was known for tough crackdowns on dissent.\n\nRafsanjani advocated a free market economy. With the state's coffers full, Rafsanjani pursued an economic liberalization policy. Rafsanjani's support for a deal with the United States over Iran's nuclear program and his free-market economic policies contrasted with Mahmoud Ahmadinejad and his allies, who advocate maintaining a hard line against Western intervention in the Middle East while pursuing a policy of economic redistribution to Iran's poor. By espousing World Bank inspired structural adjustment policies, Rafsanjani desired a modern industrial-based economy integrated into the global economy.\n\nRafsanjani urged universities to cooperate with industries. Turning to the quick pace of developments in today's world, he said that with \"the world constantly changing, we should adjust ourselves to the conditions of our lifetime and make decisions according to present circumstances\". Among the projects he initiated are Islamic Azad University.\nDuring his presidency, a period in which Rafsanjani is described by western media sources as having been the most powerful figure in Iran, people ordered executed by the judicial system of Iran included political dissidents, drug offenders, Communists, Kurds, Bahais, and even Islamic clerics.\n\nThe Iranian Mojahedin were recognized as a terrorist organization by both the Iranian government as well as the United States CIA. Regarding the Mojahedin, Rafsanjani said (\"Ettela'at\", 31 October 1981):\n\nRafsanjani also worked with Khamenei to maintain the stability of government after the death of Khomeini.\n\nFollowing years of deterioration in foreign relations under Khomeini during the Iran–Iraq War, Rafsanjani sought to rebuild ties with Arab states as well as with countries in Central Asia and the Caucasus, including Azerbaijan, Turkmenistan and Kazakhstan. However, relations with European countries and the United States remained poor, even though Rafsanjani had a track record of handling difficult situations and defusing crises.\n\nHe condemned both the United States and Iraq during the Persian Gulf War in 1991. After the war he strove to renew close ties with the West, although he refused to lift Khomeini's fatwa against the British author Salman Rushdie.\n\nRafsanjani said that Iran is ready to assist Iraq, \"expecting nothing in return\", he also said that \"peace and stability\" is a function of the \"evacuation of the occupiers.\"\n\nIran gave humanitarian help to the victims of the conflict. Iran sent truckloads of food and medicine to Iraq, and thousands of Kuwaiti refugees were given shelter in Iran.\n\nRafsanjani voiced support to Prince Abdullah's peace initiative and to \"everything the Palestinians agree to\". He also stated that what he called \"Iran's international interests\" must take precedence over those of Iranian allies in Syria and Lebanon.\n\nAyatollah Rafsanjani is a supporter of Iran's nuclear program. In 2007 Rafsanjani reiterated that the use of weapons of mass destruction was not part of the Islamic Republic culture. Rafsanjani said: \"You [US and allies] are saying that you cannot trust Iran would not use its nuclear achievements in the military industries, but we are ready to give you full assurances in this respect.\" According to \"The Economist\", he is regarded by many Iranians \"as the only person with the guile and clout to strike a deal with the West to end economic sanctions\" imposed upon the country due to its nuclear program.\n\nPost-presidency, Rafsanjani delivered a sermon at Tehran University in the summer of 1999 praising government use of force to suppress student demonstrations.\n\nIn 2000, in the first election after the end of his presidency, Rafsanjani ran again for Parliament. In the Tehran contest, Rafsanjani came in 30th, or last, place. At first, he was not among the 30 representatives of Tehran elected, as announced by the Iranian Ministry of the Interior, but the Council of Guardians then ruled numerous ballots void, leading to accusations of ballot fraud in Rafsanjani's favor.\nIn December 2006, Rafsanjani was elected to the Assembly of Experts representing Tehran with more than 1.5 million votes, which was more than any other candidate. Ahmadinejad's opponents won the majority of local election seats. On 4 September 2007 he was elected Chairman of the Assembly of Experts, the body that selects Iran's supreme leader, in what was considered a blow to the supporters of Mahmoud Ahmadinejad. He won the chairmanship with 41 votes of the 76 cast. His ultraconservative opponent, Ayatollah Ahmad Jannati, received 31 votes. Rafsanjani was re-elected to the position on 10 March 2009, running against Mohammad Yazdi. He received 51 votes compared to Yazdi's 26. On 8 March 2011, he withdrew from the election and Ayatollah Mohammad Reza Mahdavi Kani was elected as his replacement.\n\nRafsanjani has advocated freedom of expression, tolerance and civil society. In a speech on 17 July 2009, Rafsanjani criticized restriction of media and suppression of activists, and put emphasis on the role and vote of people in the Islamic Republic constitution. The event has been considered by analysts as the most important and most turbulent Friday prayer in the history of contemporary Iran. Nearly 1.5 to 2.5 million people attended the speech in Tehran.\n\nDuring the 2009 Presidential election, Rafsanjani's former rival and incumbent president, Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, won a disputed landslide victory over challenger Mir-Hossein Mousavi. His daughter was arrested on 21 June by plain clothes Basij during the subsequent protest and later sentenced to six months in jail on charges of spreading propaganda against the Islamic Republic.\n\nAyatollah Hashemi Rafsanjani was chairman of the Assembly of Experts, which is responsible for appointing or removing the Supreme Leader, who has been rumored to not be in the best of health. After the disputed results of the election were certified by the Supreme Leader, Rafsanjani was reported to have called a meeting of the Assembly of Experts, but it is unknown what the outcome or disposition of this meeting actually was. During this time Rafsanjani relocated from Tehran to Qom, where the country's religious leaders sit. However, for the most part, Rafsanjani was silent about the controversial 12 June election and its aftermath.\nOn 17 July 2009, Rafsanjani publicly addressed the election crisis, mass arrests and the issue of freedom of expression during Friday prayers. The prayers witnessed an extremely large crowd that resembled the Friday prayers early after the revolution. Supporters of both reformist and conservative parties took part in the event. During prayers, Rafsanjani argued the following:\nAll of us the establishment, the security forces, police, parliament and even protestors should move within the framework of law... We should open the doors to debates. We should not keep so many people in prison. We should free them to take care of their families. ... It is impossible to restore public confidence overnight, but we have to let everyone speak out. ... We should have logical and brotherly discussions and our people will make their judgments. ... We should let our media write within the framework of the law and we should not impose restrictions on them. ... We should let our media even criticize us. Our security forces, our police and other organs have to guarantee such a climate for criticism.\n\nHis support for the Green Movement reinvigorated his image among the urban middle-class segments of Iranian society who made up the bulk of the movement and solidified Rafsanjani's role as a backer of factions within Iran that advocated the reform of the system to ensure its survival.\n\nOn 8 March 2011 Rafsanjani lost his post as chairman of the powerful Assembly of Experts, replaced by Ayatollah Mohammad-Reza Mahdavi Kani. Rafsanjani stated that he withdrew from the election for chairman to \"avoid division.\" The loss was said to be the result of intensive lobbying \"in recent weeks\" by \"hardliners and supporters\" of President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, and part of Rafsanjani's gradual loss of power over the years.\n\nOn 11 May 2013, Rafsanjani registered for the 14 June presidential election with just minutes to spare. Former reformist president Mohammad Khatami endorsed him. However, on 21 May 2013, Iran's electoral center, Guardian Council disqualified him from standing in the presidential election. On 11 June 2013, Rafsanjani endorsed moderate Hassan Rouhani in the elections for Iran's presidency saying the candidate was \"more suitable\" than others for presidency.\n\nReformers had enjoyed his support in recent years, helping to tilt the balance of power towards more moderate forces who managed to win the presidential poll in 2013 with the victory of Hassan Rouhani and parliamentary elections in 2016.\n\nRafsanjani could not act as a political horse trader—for example, he could not prevent reformist candidates from being disqualified—but his role in guiding reformist politicians was a crucial one and, up to a point, he was able to influence Khamenei by preventing him from making one-sided decisions. Hardliners now have a chance to completely surround the Supreme Leader and block moderate influences. Rafsanjani played politics the way it was played during the time of Ayatollah Khomeini—or at least, that is what he wanted you to believe—but with his death the so-called \"Imam's Line,\" key figures from the beginning of the Revolution, who were close to Khomeini—is near its end.\n\nHe also kept his traditional connections with the clergy in the holy city of Qom and with conservative forces within the political establishment, which made it difficult for hardliners to form a strong front against moderate forces.\n\nAfter winning reelection to his seat at Assembly of Experts as Tehran district's first person, Rafsanjani announced that it was the last time that he joined an election as a candidate and will be retired from politics at the end of the current term. He also said \"Now I can die with peace of mind\" after seeing election of a moderate parliament in the 2016 legislative election.\n\nRafsanjani died on 8 January 2017, at 19:30 () following a heart attack in Tajrish's \"Shohada-ye Tajrish\" Hospital in north Tehran, as reported by Iranian state-run media. He was 82 years old at the time of his death. The government announced three days of national mourning and a public holiday on his funeral day. Black banners were raised in Tehran and other cities and some posters showed the Supreme Leader and Rafsanjani together smiling. Five days of mourning also observed in the southern province of Kerman, where Ayatollah Rafsanjani's hometown of Rafsanjan is located.\n\nTwo months after his death, a street in Tehran's Sa'adat Abad was renamed in his honour. Many streets in other cities also named Hashemi Rafsanjani. The central building of Azad University also named as Hashemi Building and a statue of him was installed outside of the building. Kerman International Airport was also renamed to Ayatollah Hashemi Rafsanjani Airport.\n\nRafsanjani was sought by the Argentinian government for ordering the 1994 AMIA bombing in Buenos Aires. It was based on the allegation that senior Iranian officials planned the attack in an August 1993 meeting, including Khamenei, the Supreme Leader, Mohammad Hejazi, Khamenei's intelligence and security advisor, Rafsanjani, then president, Ali Fallahian, then intelligence minister, and Ali Akbar Velayati, then foreign minister.\n\nIn 1997 during the Mykonos trial in Germany, it was declared that Rafsanjani, the then president of Iran, alongside Ayatollah Khamenei, Velayati and Fallahian had a role in the assassination of Iran's opposition activists in Europe.\n\nAfter his loss at the presidential elections in 2005, a growing tension between him and President Ahmadinejad arose. Rafsanjani has criticized Ahmadinejad's administration several times for conducting a purge of government officials, slow move towards privatization and recently hostile foreign policy in particular the atomic energy policy. In return Ahmadinejad fought back that Rafsanjani failed to differentiate privatization with the corrupt takeover of government-owned companies and of foreign policies which led to sanctions against Iran in 1995 and 1996. He also implicitly denounced Rafsanjani and his followers by calling those who criticize his nuclear program as \"traitors\".\n\nDuring a debate with Mir-Hossein Moussavi in 2009 presidential election, Ahmadinejad accused Hashemi of corruption. Hashemi released an open letter in which he complained about what he called the president's \"insults, lies and false allegations\" and asked the country's supreme leader, Ali Khamenei, to intervene.\n\nIn his latter years, Rafsanjani had disagreements with Ali Khamenei who has the last say in everything in Iran. Khamenei even indirectly called Rafsanjani a traitor. Khamenei acknowledged that he and Rafsanjani had differences after Rafsanjani's death, and referred to Rafsanjani as Hujjat al-Islam (lower clerical rank than Ayatollah), even though in reality Rafsanjani was of higher clerical rank, as Rafsanjani was an Ayatollah.\n\nAccording to him, the problem of having political party undertook by common sense and people. In other word Islam has not definite opinion on parties. Islam placed the duty of having party on the shoulders of peoples themselves. Islam has not any disagreement with partition. He believes that all parties before Islamic revolution in Iran controlled by Shah Regime and there was no original party in that time. In fact with victory of Islamic revolution, the existence of part becomes necessary for revolution.\n\nBefore Iranian Revolution, Rafsanjani was active in the anti-Shah activities and reportedly associated with the Islamic Coalition's \"shura-ye ruhaniyat\" () and the People's Mujahedin.\n\nAlthough Rafsanjani was a member of the pragmatic-conservative Combatant Clergy Association, he had a close bond to the Executives of Construction Party and Moderation and Development Party. In 2009, Rafsanjani ceased activity in the Combatant Clergy Association, despite remaining a member.\n\nHe was regarded as flip-flopping between conservative and reformist camps since the election of Mohammad Khatami, supporting reformers in that election, but going back to the conservative camp in the 2000 parliamentary elections as a result of the reformist party severely criticizing and refusing to accept him as their candidate. Reformists, including Akbar Ganji, accused him of involvement in murdering dissidents and writers during his presidency. In the end, the major differences between the Kargozaran and the reformists party weakened both and eventually resulted in their loss at the presidential elections in 2005. However, Rafsanjani regained close ties with the reformers since he lost the 2005 presidential elections to Mahmoud Ahmadinejad.\n\nHashemi refers to the point that the Islamic Republican Party established in the early years of revolution in Iran. Ruhollah Khomeini, at first step, was disagree with establishment of Party because he known the establishment of party as something gradually. But After consultation of Hashemi with Khomeini, the opinion of Khomeini has changed. There were many negotiations and consultations on the instructions of Party .somebodies like Yadollah Sahabi and Habibollah Peyman were to communicate but after a while there were no communication with them. Although Mortaza Motahhari had not any disagreement to establishing party but at the same time he hadn't any communication with party. In fact, the idea of establishment of republic party was necessary in order to give the Mullahs an organization and political collection. The party has established formally on 17 February 1979, namely two weeks after the victory of Islamic Revolution. The members of the party even determined their members in Kanoon Touhid in early days. The financial expenses of party originated from the voluntary aids of people. At first, religious scholars or clerics took part in the party. In early days there were no financial problem but after a while the problem appeared. Khomeini tried to give financial aid to the party with giving money. The members primarily chose from revolutionary individuals and believed persons.\n\nFrom his marriage to Effat Marashi in 1958, Rafsanjani had three sons: Mohsen, Mehdi, and Yasser, as well as two daughters, Fatemeh and Faezeh. Only Faezeh Hashemi chose a political life, which led to her becoming a Majlis representative and then the publisher of the weekly newspaper \"Zan\" (meaning \"Woman\" in English), which was closed in February 1999. In 2016, his daughter, Faezeh Hashemi, sparked a debate on religious persecution in Iran by visiting the female leader of the persecuted Bahai religious minority. The two women had met in prison, when Faezeh was serving a six-month sentence for \"spreading propaganda against the system.\" Another Rafsanjani's daughter, Fatemeh is President of Charity Foundation for Special Diseases and Mohsen was chairman of Tehran Metro Organization and now is vice president of Azad University. His wife, Effat is the granddaughter of Mohammed Kazem Yazdi.\n\nThe Rafsanjani family took their name from his great grandfather, whose last name was Hashem. When Akbar Hashemi was born, his father was a rich businessman with a valuable pistachio business.\n\nHashemi and his partners also owned Islamic Azad University, worth an estimated USD$20–25 billion.\n\nOnly months after the revolution, Rafsanjani was shot once in the stomach by gunmen from one of the groups vying for power amid the political turmoil. He was not seriously wounded—and neither was his wife, who jumped in front to shield him from the attack. \"Great men of history do not die,\" Khomeini said in announcing that Rafsanjani had survived.\n\n\nIn addition, the full text of his Friday Prayer sermons and his congress keynote speeches are also published separately. Based on his diary, viewpoints, speeches and interviews, several independent books have been published so far.\nThe book in fact considered as a key to the subjects and concepts of Quran. The book has been written by Hashemi and several other scholars.\n\nAlthough he was a close follower of Ayatollah Khomeini and considered as a central elite during Islamic revolution, at the same time he was fan of reconstruction of shattered country after war and according to this fact, he selected his cabinets from western-educated technocrats and social reformers. His cabinet largely was a reformist one. Rafsanjani acquired both the support of Imam Khomeini in one hand and Majlis in other hand. In fact, he tried to transfer the economy towards the free-market system. There was a gap among Rafsanjani and Khatami and reform agenda because of his partnership with those who were conservative. The first face of reformist movements began by Rafsanjani.\n\n\nOfficial\nOther\n"}
{"id": "1709254", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1709254", "title": "Amadou Hampâté Bâ", "text": "Amadou Hampâté Bâ\n\nAmadou Hampâté Bâ (1900/1901 – 15 May 1991) was a Malian writer and ethnologist.\n\nAmadou Hampâté Bâ was born to an aristocratic Fula family in Bandiagara, the largest city in Dogon territory and the capital of the precolonial Masina Empire. At the time of his birth, the area was known as French Sudan as part of colonial French West Africa, which was formally established a few years before his birth. After his father's death, he was adopted by his mother's second husband, Tidjani Amadou Ali Thiam of the Toucouleur ethnic group. He first attended the Qur'anic school run by Tierno Bokar, a dignitary of the Tijaniyyah brotherhood, then transferred to a French school at Bandiagara, then to one at Djenné. In 1915, he ran away from school and rejoined his mother at Kati, where he resumed his studies.\n\nIn 1921, he turned down entry into the \"école normale\" in Gorée. As a punishment, the governor appointed him to Ouagadougou with the role he later described as that of \"an essentially precarious and revocable temporary writer\". From 1922 to 1932, he held several posts in the colonial administration in Upper Volta, now Burkina Faso, and from 1932 to 1942 in Bamako. In 1933, he took six months' leave to visit Tierno Bokar, his spiritual leader. (See also:Sufi studies)\n\nIn 1942, he was appointed to the Institut Français d’Afrique Noire (IFAN — the French Institute of Black Africa) in Dakar, thanks to the benevolence of Théodore Monod, its director. At IFAN, he made ethnological surveys and collected traditions. For 15 years he devoted himself to research, which would later lead to the publication of his work \"L'Empire peul de Macina\" (\"The Fula Empire of Macina\"). In 1951, he obtained a UNESCO grant, enabling him to travel to Paris and meet with intellectuals from Africanist circles, notably Marcel Griaule.\n\nWith Mali's independence in 1960, Bâ founded the Institute of Human Sciences in Bamako, and represented his country at the UNESCO general conferences. In 1962, he was elected to UNESCO's executive council, and in 1966 he helped establish a unified system for the transcription of African languages.\n\nHis term in the executive council ended in 1970, and he devoted the remaining years of his life to research and writing. In 1971, he moved to the Marcory suburb of Abidjan, Côte d'Ivoire, and worked on classifying the archives of West African oral tradition that he had accumulated throughout his lifetime, as well as writing his memoirs (\"Amkoullel l'enfant peul\" and \"Oui mon commandant!\", both published posthumously). He died in Abidjan in 1991.\n\n(translated into English and published as \"\", Bloomington, Indiana: World Wisdom, 2008)\n\n"}
{"id": "1615295", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1615295", "title": "Andy Payne", "text": "Andy Payne\n\nAndy Hartley Payne (November 17, 1907 – December 3, 1977) was the winner of the International Trans-Continental Footrace in 1928. He ran the route from Los Angeles to New York City, much of it along U.S. Route 66, in 573 hours, 4 minutes, 34 seconds, (23 days) averaging over an 84-day staged run.\n\nPayne, a member of the Cherokee tribe, grew up in Foyil, Oklahoma which was one of the check point towns along the route of the race. His father was a friend of Will Rogers and had worked on the ranch of the latter's family during his youth.\n\nThe footrace was organized to promote U.S. Route 66 which had recently been built as a simple, well-paved route across the country, and dubbed \"the main street of America\". First prize was $25,000 which Payne used to pay off the mortgage on his father's farm.\n\nHe died in December 1977 at the age of 70.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17230238", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17230238", "title": "Br'er Rabbit", "text": "Br'er Rabbit\n\nBr'er Rabbit (Brother Rabbit), also spelled Bre'r Rabbit or Brer Rabbit or Bruh Rabbit, is a central figure as Uncle Remus tells stories of the Southern United States. Br'er Rabbit is a trickster who succeeds by his wits rather than by brawn, provoking authority figures and bending social mores as he sees fit. The Walt Disney Company later adapted this character for its 1946 animated motion picture \"Song of the South\".\n\nIn one tale, Br'er Fox constructs a doll out of a lump of tar and dresses it with some clothes. When Br'er Rabbit comes along he addresses the Tar-Baby amiably, but receives no response. Br'er Rabbit becomes offended by what he perceives as the Tar-Baby's lack of manners, punches it, and in doing so becomes stuck. The more Br'er Rabbit punches and kicks the tar \"baby\" out of rage, the more he gets stuck. When Br'er Fox reveals himself, the helpless but cunning Br'er Rabbit pleads, \"please, Br'er Fox, don't fling me in dat brier-patch,\" prompting Fox to do exactly that. As rabbits are at home in thickets, the resourceful Br'er Rabbit uses the thorns and briers to escape. The story was originally published in \"Harper's Weekly\" by Robert Roosevelt; years later Joel Chandler Harris included his version of the tale in his Uncle Remus stories.\n\nThe Br'er Rabbit stories can be traced back to trickster figures in Africa, particularly the hare that figures prominently in the storytelling traditions in West, Central, and Southern Africa. These tales continue to be part of the traditional folklore of numerous peoples throughout those regions. In the Akan traditions of West Africa, the trickster is usually the spider Anansi, though the plots in his tales are often identical with those of stories of Br'er Rabbit. However, Anansi does encounter a tricky rabbit called \"Adanko\" (Asante-Twi to mean \"Hare\") in some stories. The Jamaican character with the same name \"Brer Rabbit\", is an adaptation of the Ananse stories of the Akan people.\n\nSome scholars have suggested that in his American incarnation, Br'er Rabbit represented the enslaved Africans who used their wits to overcome adversity and to exact revenge on their adversaries, the white slave owners. Though not always successful, the efforts of Br'er Rabbit made him a folk hero. However, the trickster is a multidimensional character. While he can be a hero, his amoral nature and his lack of any positive restraint can make him into a villain as well.\n\nFor both Africans and African Americans, the animal trickster represents an extreme form of behavior that people may be forced to adopt in extreme circumstances in order to survive. The trickster is not to be admired in every situation. He is an example of what to do, but also an example of what not to do. The trickster's behavior can be summed up in the common African proverb: \"It's trouble that makes the monkey chew on hot peppers.\" In other words, sometimes people must use extreme measures in extreme circumstances. Several elements in the Brer Rabbit Tar Baby story (e.g., rabbit needing to be taught a lesson, punches and head butting the rabbit does, the stuck rabbit being swung around and around) are reminiscent of those found in a Zimbabwe-Botswana folktale.\n\nFolklorists in the late 19th century first documented evidence that the American versions of the stories originated among enslaved West Africans based on connections between Br'er Rabbit and \"Leuk\", a rabbit trickster in Senegalese folklore. The stories of Br'er Rabbit were written down by Robert Roosevelt, an uncle of US President Theodore Roosevelt. Theodore Roosevelt wrote in his autobiography about his aunt from the State of Georgia, that \"She knew all the 'Br'er Rabbit' stories, and I was brought up on them. One of my uncles, Robert Roosevelt, was much struck with them, and took them down from her dictation, publishing them in \"Harper's\", where they fell flat. This was a good many years before a genius arose who, in 'Uncle Remus', made the stories immortal.\"\n\nThese stories were popularized for the mainstream audience in the late 19th century by Joel Chandler Harris (1845–1908), who wrote down and published many such stories that had been passed down by oral tradition. Harris also attributed the birth name \"Riley\" to Br'er Rabbit. Harris heard these tales in Georgia. Very similar versions of the same stories were recorded independently at the same time by the folklorist Alcée Fortier in southern Louisiana, where the Rabbit character was known as \"Compair Lapin\" in Creole. Enid Blyton, the English writer of children's fiction, retold the stories for children.\n\nAlthough Joel Chandler Harris collected materials for his famous series of books featuring the character Br'er Rabbit in the 1870s, the Br'er Rabbit cycle had been recorded earlier among the Cherokees: The \"tar baby\" story was printed in an 1845 edition of the \"Cherokee Advocate\", the same year Joel Chandler Harris was born.\n\nRabbit and Hare myths abound among Algonquin Indians in Eastern North America, particularly under the name Nanabozho. The Great Hare is generally worshipped among tribes in eastern Canada.\n\nIn \"That the People Might Live: Native American Literatures and Native American Community\" by Jace Weaver, the origins of Br'er Rabbit and other literature are discussed. To say that a story only originates from one culture and not another can only be true when a group of people exist in complete isolation from others. Although the Cherokee had lived in isolation from Europeans in the remote past, a substantial amount of interaction was to occur among North American tribes, Europeans, and those from the enslaved population during the 18th and 19th centuries. It is impossible to ascertain whether the Cherokee story independently predated the African American story.\n\nIn a Cherokee tale about the briar patch, \"the fox and the wolf throw the trickster rabbit into a thicket from which the rabbit quickly escapes.\" There was a \"melding of the Cherokee rabbit-trickster ... into the culture of African slaves.\"\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "276088", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=276088", "title": "Brat Pack (actors)", "text": "Brat Pack (actors)\n\nThe Brat Pack is a nickname given to a group of young actors who frequently appeared together in teen-oriented in the 1980s. First mentioned in a 1985 \"New York\" magazine article, it is now usually defined as the cast members of two specific films released in 1985—\"The Breakfast Club\" and \"St. Elmo's Fire\"—although other actors are sometimes included. The \"core\" members are considered to be Emilio Estevez, Anthony Michael Hall, Rob Lowe, Andrew McCarthy, Demi Moore, Judd Nelson, Molly Ringwald, and Ally Sheedy.\n\nThe term \"Brat Pack\", a play on the Rat Pack from the 1950s and 1960s, was first popularized in a 1985 \"New York\" magazine cover story, which described a group of highly successful film stars in their early twenties. David Blum wrote the article after witnessing several young actors (Emilio Estevez, Rob Lowe, and Judd Nelson) being mobbed by groupies at Los Angeles' Hard Rock Cafe. The group has been characterized by the partying of members such as Robert Downey Jr., Estevez, Lowe, and Nelson.\n\nHowever, an appearance in one or both of the ensemble casts of John Hughes' \"The Breakfast Club\" and Joel Schumacher's \"St. Elmo's Fire\" is often considered the prerequisite for being a core Brat Pack member. With this criterion, the most commonly cited members include: \n\nAbsent from most lists is Mare Winningham, the only principal member of either cast who never starred in any other films with any other cast members. Estevez was cited as the \"unofficial president\" of the Brat Pack. He and Demi Moore were once engaged. In 1999, McCarthy said he was never a member of the group: \"The media made up this sort of tribe. I don't think I've seen any of these people since we finished \"St. Elmo's Fire\".\"\n\nThe initial \"New York\" article covered a group of actors larger, or more inclusive, than the currently understood meaning of the term \"Brat Pack\". For example, most of the cast members of \"The Outsiders\" were mentioned, including Tom Cruise, C. Thomas Howell, Matt Dillon, Patrick Swayze, and Ralph Macchio, none of whom starred in any other 1980s movies with any \"core\" Brat Packers, besides Patrick Swayze. Charlie Sheen appears in several lists – more for his family relationship to Brat Pack leader Emilio Estevez and his partying than for his collaborative film work with other members.\n\nJames Spader and Robert Downey, Jr. have also been considered members, and performed alongside other Brat Packers: both of them with Andrew McCarthy in \"Less Than Zero\"; Spader with McCarthy in \"Mannequin\" and with McCarthy and Molly Ringwald in \"Pretty in Pink\"; and Downey with Anthony Michael Hall (\"Weird Science\" and \"Johnny Be Good\"; and the cast of \"Saturday Night Live\") and with Molly Ringwald (\"The Pick-up Artist\"). Other actors who have been linked with the group include Kevin Bacon, Matthew Broderick, Jon Cryer, John Cusack, Jami Gertz, Mary Stuart Masterson, Sean Penn, Kiefer Sutherland, and Lea Thompson. In her autobiography, Melissa Gilbert connects herself with the Brat Pack, as her social life centered on Estevez and Lowe (both of whom she was engaged to). Through frequent collaborative work, the actor Harry Dean Stanton, then in his late 50s, became a mentor for the group of young actors.\n\nDavid Blum's \"New York\" story, titled \"Hollywood's Brat Pack\", ran on June 10, 1985. It was originally supposed to be just about Emilio Estevez, but one night, Estevez invited Blum to hang out with him, Rob Lowe, Judd Nelson, and others at the Hard Rock Cafe. It was a typical night out for the group, who had gotten close while filming \"St. Elmo's Fire\". That night, Blum decided to change the article's focus to an entire group of young actors at the time. The \"St. Elmo's Fire\" crew members did not like Blum and sensed that he was jealous of the actors' success.\n\nWhen the piece ran, the actors all felt betrayed, especially Estevez. The article mentioned people in several films but focused on Estevez, Lowe, and Nelson, and portrayed those three negatively. The \"Brat Pack\" label, which the actors disliked, stuck for years afterward. Before the article ran, they had been regarded as talented individuals; after the article, all of them were grouped together and regarded as unprofessional. Interviewed for Susannah Gora's 2010 book \"You Couldn't Ignore Me If You Tried: The Brat Pack, John Hughes, And Their Impact on a Generation\", Blum admitted that he should not have written the article.\n\nWith the increased negative attention to them, the actors soon stopped socializing with one another. On the group's camaraderie, Ally Sheedy later said, \"[The article] just destroyed it. I had felt truly a part of something, and that guy just blew it to pieces.\"\n\nDuring the late 1980s, several of the Brat Pack actors had their careers mildly derailed by problems relating to drugs, alcohol, and in Lowe's case, a sex tape. According to Gora, \"Many believe they could have gone on to more serious roles if not for that article. They were talented. But they had professional difficulties, personal difficulties after that.\" By the 21st century, the term \"Brat Pack\" had lost its negative connotation.\n\nThe films themselves have been described as representative of \"the socially apathetic, cynical, money-possessed and ideologically barren eighties generation.\" They made frequent use of adolescent archetypes, were often set in the suburbs surrounding Chicago, and focused on white, middle-class teenage angst. According to author Susannah Gora, these films \"changed the way many young people looked at everything from class distinction to friendship, from love to sex and fashion to music.\" They are considered \"among the most influential pop cultural contributions of their time.\"\n\nIn 2012, \"Entertainment Weekly\" listed \"The Breakfast Club\" as the best high school movie ever made. On VH1's list of the 100 greatest teen stars, Molly Ringwald was ranked #1, Rob Lowe was ranked #2, Anthony Michael Hall was ranked #4, Ally Sheedy was ranked #34, and Andrew McCarthy was ranked #40.\n\nBeyond the two primary films, there is no generally accepted list of \"Brat Pack\" movies. While Blum's article credits \"Taps\", a 1981 sleeper starring Timothy Hutton with Cruise and Penn, as the first Brat Pack movie, the list of movies below represents the more traditional filmography, with each movie including at least two core members in starring roles:\n\nOther 1980s films, many with similar coming-of-age themes, that starred only one core Brat Pack actor with one or more close contributors include:\n\nSome films have been dubbed \"Brat Pack movies\" despite having no stars from the core membership, including 1984's \"Red Dawn\" with C. Thomas Howell, Jennifer Grey, Charlie Sheen, Harry Dean Stanton, Patrick Swayze, and Lea Thompson, 1990's \"Pump Up The Volume\", 1986's \"Ferris Bueller's Day Off\" which starred Grey and Sheen in supporting roles and 1987's \"The Lost Boys\" with Kiefer Sutherland and Jami Gertz in key roles.\n\nMany of the Brat Pack members have continued to act past the 1980s. Molly Ringwald continued acting in films throughout the 1990s and in 2001, began performing as Sally Bowles in the Broadway revival of \"Cabaret.\" In 2013, she released a jazz record called \"Except Sometimes\"\". She also began starring in television shows such as \"The Secret Life of the American Teenage\"r and \"Riverdale\".\n\nEmilio Estevez and Judd Nelson also continued to act. Nelson has performed on three seasons on the show \"Suddenly Susan\" and \"Bad Kids Go to Hell\". Ally Sheedy has acted in more independent works and shows like Kyle XY and also she teaches at La Guardia High school of Performing Arts. Close contributor Robert Downey Jr. became one of the most successful actors since then. His most acclaimed character is Tony Stark / Iron Man in the 2008 Marvel Studios film \"Iron Man\", a role he later reprised in multiple sequels, several Avengers ensemble films, as well as other standalone superhero films.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1555027", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1555027", "title": "Brian Cant", "text": "Brian Cant\n\nBrian Cant (12 July 1933 – 19 June 2017) was an English actor of stage, television and film, television presenter, voice artist and writer best known for his work in BBC television programmes for children from 1964 onward, most notably \"Play School\".\n\nCant was born in Ipswich and educated at Northgate Grammar School for Boys, a state grammar school, since renamed Northgate High School. He trained with Ipswich Town F.C. youth team. He worked as a printer before starting to act in the late 1950s.\n\nCant was performing in BBC Schools drama television programmes about the Romans for the corporation when he heard that auditions were being held for a new pre-school children's programme which was to be shown on the new BBC 2 channel. This was \"Play School\". At his audition he was asked by programme creator and the series' first producer Joy Whitby to get in a cardboard box and pretend to 'row out to sea'. He pretended to fish from his 'boat' and caught a wellington boot full of custard. He was cast as a presenter and first appeared on the third week in May 1964, and stayed with the programme for 21 of its 24-year run and becoming, according to Whitby, 'Mr Play School'. In an interview, he defended \"Play School\" and similar children's programmes as being designed to encourage children to try out the ideas presented.\n\nHis involvement in \"Play School\" directly led to his work on three linked Gordon Murray puppet series: \"Camberwick Green\" (1966), \"Trumpton\" (1967), and \"Chigley\" (1969). Later he hosted or co-hosted the programmes \"Play Away\" (1971–84), and \"Bric-a-Brac\" (1980–82) for slightly older children. From 1990 to 1999, Cant starred as Brian the farmer in the children's television puppet programme \"Dappledown Farm\", as well as providing the voice for one of the characters, Harry the Heron. Cant was also the storyteller of the UK version of \"Jay Jay the Jet Plane\", and the narrator for the popular Canadian children's show \"Bruno\".\n\nCant also appeared in television series for adults. In the 1960s he appeared in two \"Doctor Who\" stories, in 1965 as Kert Gantry in \"The Daleks' Master Plan\" and in 1968 as Tensa in \"The Dominators\". In 1979 he presented the BBC programme \"The Great Egg Race\", and was one of the guest presenters featured in the 1982 series of the game show \"It's a Knockout\" after Eddie Waring retired. In 1998 Cant parodied his previous contributions as a narrator in 'The Organ Gang', a weekly segment in Lee and Herring's \"This Morning with Richard Not Judy\", a BBC TV Sunday afternoon comedy show. He also made three appearances in the BBC1 daytime drama \"Doctors\", each time as a different character, the last in 2011.\n\nHis film appearances were few but included brief roles in \"The Pleasure Girls\" (1965), \"The Sandwich Man\" (1966), and \"A Feast at Midnight\" (1995), starring Christopher Lee.\n\nIn 2001, Cant appeared in a music video on Orbital's DVD \"The Altogether\". The clip is similar to \"Play School\", featuring Cant in his familiar presenter role. He read the second half of Ann Jungman's \"Vlad the Drac\" books for audiobook, replacing Anthony Daniels.\n\nHe was also the narrator of the UK dub of \"Jay Jay the Jet Plane\".\n\nIn April 2007, Cant was named as the best-loved voice from UK children's television, in a poll of over 1,200 people for \"Underground Ernie\" magazine. Cant came ahead of \"Bagpuss\" and \"Ivor the Engine\" narrator Oliver Postgate in second place, with David Jason (\"Danger Mouse\") polling third. On 28 November 2010, he received the special award at the Children's BAFTAs for his work in children's television. During his acceptance speech he said, \"When I was a child I spake as a child, I understood as a child, I thought as a child. When I became a man I spake as a child, I understood as a child, I thought as a child, and they paid me for it...!\"\n\nCant's theatre credits include \"Still Playing Away\",\"The Railway Children\", \"An Ideal Husband\", \"Habeas Corpus\", \"Gaslight\", \"Side by Side by Sondheim\", \"The Canterbury Tales\" (in which he memorably ad-libbed a reference to his work on \"Play School\"), \"Oh, Coward!\", \"There's No Place Like a Home\" and many more, as well as pantomimes.\n\nCant lived in Chalfont St Giles, Buckinghamshire. He was married twice and had five children. He had two sons from his first marriage to Mary Gibson, including the actor Richard Cant. In 1984, he married writer and director Cherry Britton, sister of TV presenter Fern Britton and actor Jasper Britton. They had three children.\n\nIn 1999, he was diagnosed with Parkinson's disease, referring to this in an interview with \"BBC Breakfast\" which was shown on 24 November 2010. He died on 19 June 2017, at the age of 83, at Denville Hall, in Northwood, London, a retirement home often used by those in the entertainment industry.\n\n"}
{"id": "2187188", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2187188", "title": "Bunny DeBarge", "text": "Bunny DeBarge\n\nEtterlene \"Bunny\" DeBarge (born March 15, 1955) is an American soul singer–songwriter, best known as the lone female sibling of the Motown family group DeBarge. She is also best known as the lead vocalist behind the classic R&B ballad, \"A Dream\" from the group's \"In a Special Way\" album and is also the co-writer of the group's 1982 breakthrough hit, \"I Like It\" and the number-one hit, \"Time Will Reveal\".\n\nEtterlene DeBarge was the eldest of ten children, born to Etterlene (née) Abney and Robert DeBarge, Sr. While spending her initial childhood in Detroit, her family moved to Grand Rapids when she was sixteen. Bunny would later recall years of physical and sexual abuse at the hands of her father, stating that he had started molesting her when she was seven and this carried on until she was thirteen. Bunny also detailed troubles in public school where she and her brothers were constantly bullied and taunted by black schoolmates for their multiracial ethnicity.\n\nBunny found solace in music, singing in her uncle's church as a child. She and her brothers soon participated in several groups together in various times. In 1972, DeBarge dropped out of school and married her first husband, for whom she'd be the mother of two children (they later divorced). Since she wasn't into instruments like her brothers were, Bunny taught herself how to write songs and compose melodies, which later paid off as she got older.\n\nIn 1979, after a couple years watching her brothers Bobby and Tommy ride to musical stardom as members of the band Switch, Bunny teamed up with her three brothers Randy, Mark and El and became the DeBarges. They signed with Motown after their demo tape was passed off by Switch's Gregory Williams to Motown CEO Berry Gordy, who was left impressed by the siblings and soon put the band on a salary.\n\nBetween 1979 and 1981, Bunny and her brothers worked behind the scenes mainly on the works of Switch, with Bunny in particular collaborating with her brother Bobby on songs such as \"Hold On to My Love\", \"Love Over and Over Again\" and \"My Friend in the Sky\". In 1981, Bunny co-produced the DeBarges' self-titled debut album and was featured on lead vocals alongside brother El on \"Share My World\" which they wrote. A year later, in 1982, the group brought along their teenage brother James, and shortened their name to just DeBarge. That year, they released their second album, \"All This Love\", with which the siblings found musical success, particularly with \"I Like It\", for which Bunny wrote parts of the lyrics, alongside her brothers Randy and El.\n\nThe group followed up this success with their third album, \"In A Special Way\", in 1983. The album yielded another hit with Bunny as a lyricist, with the gospel-influenced \"Time Will Reveal\". The album also included several more highlights including two more Bunny-composed ballads, \"Stay with Me\" and \"A Dream\", the last song Bunny took lead vocals on. Like \"All This Love\" before it, \"In a Special Way\" went gold, paving the way for the group's biggest success in 1985 with the \"Rhythm of the Night\" album, with the title track becoming a top five crossover hit. However, the album marked the beginning of the end of Bunny's tenure with the group.\n\nPressured to go solo after numerous arguments with her brothers, Bunny followed brother El out of the group in 1986 and the following year, Bunny put out her debut album, \"In Love\", releasing one single, \"Save the Best for Me\". The album failed to deliver any hits or stay on the charts long and Bunny soon left the label. Besieged by a growing drug addiction that had started during her heyday with DeBarge, she quietly exited from the music business at the end of the 1980s and with the exception of projects involving gospel music, including an album featuring some of her brothers, herself and their mother, Bunny hasn't released any more solo work.\n\nBunny DeBarge has been married twice. In several of DeBarge's albums, she is listed as Etterlene Jordan and is sometimes referred to as either Etterlene Jordan-Knight or Etterlene DeBarge Knight. Bunny is the mother of four children and a grandmother of fifteen and still lives in Michigan, having moved back to Grand Rapids after years living in California. Much like her brothers, Bunny DeBarge has dealt with drug issues, going back to her teen years, which started with marijuana and moving up to prescription medication during her heyday with DeBarge. It soon escalated to usage of cocaine.\n\nBunny entered rehab several times to kick her habit. In 2008, she broke her silence issuing her autobiography, \"The Kept Ones\", in which she talked about her father's abuse towards her and her siblings and her dealings with substance abuse. That year she appeared on the debut episode of the TV One series, \"Unsung\", in which she talked about her childhood and her time with DeBarge, along with brothers Randy and James. The trio again appeared on TV three years later in September 2011, on the show \"Lifechangers\" alongside Bunny's daughter Janae. James entered the rehabilitation program but left a few hours later. Randy left a few days later. Bunny entered the rehabilitation program and completed her entire experience. After leaving the rehabilitation program in West Hollywood, California, Bunny has been touring and focusing on her new album.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50984363", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50984363", "title": "C. Ainsworth Mitchell", "text": "C. Ainsworth Mitchell\n\nCharles Ainsworth Mitchell (20 November 1867 – 5 January 1948) was a British chemist and forensic scientist who made a special study of the microscopic and chemical study of handwriting. He was a Fellow of the Royal Institute of Chemistry and the Chemical Society, and member of the Society of Public Analysts He was editor of \"The Analyst\" for 25 years, president of the Medico-Legal Society (1935–1937), and vice president of the Society of Chemistry (1937–1940).\n\nMitchell was born 20 November 1867 in Thetford, England, the third son of Dr. T. H. Mitchell. He was educated at King William's College, and Exeter College, Oxford, graduating in 1889. In 1899 he married Edith Boyle Keely.\n\nAs a chemist and a scientist, Mitchell's work covered a wide range of topics. He became a fellow of the Royal Institute of Chemistry in 1897 and of the Chemical Society in 1916. In 1907 he advocated using a pinhole camera to photograph the sun in an article in \"Knowledge and Scientific News\", a method which he notes was known as early as 1615 but seemed to have been forgotten. In 1911, he advocated the switch from lead to copper pipes for drinking water. His reasoning was that copper would better be able to alert the drinker to an excess of poisonous sulphates in the water. In 1920, he became editor of \"The Analyst\", a journal of the Chemical Society, and under 25 years of his editorship the journal expanded in scope and increased in reputation.\n\nIn 1911 he was head of the inspection bureau of Scotland Yard. He frequently served as an expert witness. In 1915, he gave testimony about the invisible ink used in the case of German spy, Anton Kuepferle.\n\nIn 1925 he analyzed documents and seals of Mary, Queen of Scots and claimed to show that Mary was innocent of conspiracy to assassinate Queen Elizabeth I of England. He said that William Maitland, Mary's secretary, forged Mary's hand in the documents which led to Mary's execution. In 1929, he was an advocate of the use of fingerprints to determine identity, a method which he traced to Sir William Herschell in 1853, who saw the method used in to document an individuals identity in India, where he was a commissioner. He showed that monkeys may be identified by fingerprints and that the same could be done with the markings on a cow's nose.\n\nHe was hired by Ruth White to analyze the \"Will and Testament of `Abdu'l-Bahá\". White opposed parts of the will that suggested the establishment of a hierarchy in the Bahá'í Faith. His report concluded in agreement with White, that the document was a forgery. White placed Mitchell's signed report on the writing shown on the photographs of the document with the U.S. Library of Congress in 1930.\n\nMitchell's works include:\n"}
{"id": "56177159", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56177159", "title": "Casto Alejandrino", "text": "Casto Alejandrino\n\nCasto Jurado Alejandrino (November 18, 1911 - July 12, 2005) was a Filipino peasant leader and commander of the Hukbalahap. He was the Hukbalahap's vice-commander, second only to its \"Supremo\", Luis Taruc. Alejandrino was one of the few supporters of the Hukbalahap that were also landlords, coming from the Alejandrino family which included former revolutionary general Jose Alejandrino.\n\nAlejandrino was born on November 18, 1911 in Arayat, Pampanga. His family included Jose Alejandrino, the former revolutionary general and Senator. In the 1930s, Alejandrino managed to inherit 68 hectares of land in Arayat with fourteen tenants. He also became an active spokesperson for the peasant group \"Aguman ding Maldang Talapagobra\" and the Socialist Party of the Philippines. In 1938, when the PSP merged with the \"Partido Komunista ng Pilipinas\", Alejandrino held a position in the party's central committee. During the 1940 elections, Alejandrino ran under the AMT-endorsed Popular Front ticket and won a seat as mayor of Arayat.\n\nDuring the Second World War, members of the PKP along with peasant groups such as the AMT and the \"Kalipunang Pambansa ng Magbubukid sa Pilipinas\" convened in Cabiao, Nueva Ecija to discuss organization, strategy, and tactics. A Central Luzon Bureau was formed and Alejandrino was elected as second-in-command of its Military committee, under Luis Taruc. A month later on March 29, 1942, peasant guerrillas and members of the AMT and the KPMP met again in Cabiao to form the Hukbalahap. It was headed by Taruc, Alejandrino, who also served as its vice-commander, Felipa Culala, and Bernardo Poblete.\n\nDuring this time, Alejandrino adopted multiple aliases, such as Guan Yek (GY), Torres, GI, and Tatang. Alejandrino participated in guerrilla activity at this time, commanding Reco 3 in addition to his duties as General HQ vice-commander. The Huks also set up \"provisional governments\" in its liberated areas, and Alejandrino was appointed the governor of Pampanga.\n\nAt the close of the Second World War, American officials began arresting members of the Hukbalahap on charges of sedition. Alejandrino was arrested along with other leaders on February 1945 in San Fernando, Pampanga. A CIC report stated that their arrest was \"the only way to end Huk domination in the area\". They were freed on September 1945. The Hukbalahap was officially disbanded and a Huk Veterans' League, with Alejandrino as its nominal chairman. The purpose of the Veterans' League was to help get the Hukbalahap recognized as a legitimate guerrilla movement. During this time, the relationship between the American forces and the Hukbalahap deteriorated further, owing to its antagonistic relationship with the USAFFE guerrillas. Huk veterans were persecuted and charged with sedition and rebellion, and some veterans chose to not go down from the mountains. This lack of recognition, combined with peasant abuses by the landowning class, and the results of the 1946 elections, added to the growing unrest in Central Luzon. This led to former Huk veterans going back to the mountains, a situation described as a \"spontaneous peasant revolution\".\n\nIn June 1946, veterans of the Hukbalahap met in Candaba, Pampanga to form a contingency plan. The Central Luzon Command and the South Luzon Command were both established. Alejandrino was again elected vice-commander. Two months later, Juan Feleo, a noted peasant activist, was taken and killed by armed men. As a result of this, the peasantry took to arms against the government in open rebellion, reforming the Hukbalahap as the \"Hukbong Mapagpalaya ng Bayan\". Alejandrino would resume his guerrilla activities, commanding Reco 4 from 1949-1951.\n\nOn February 15, 1954, Alejandrino went into talks with the Magsaysay administration, which failed. That April, he arrived in the Bulacan area of the Sierra Madre, carrying an order from the PKP secretariat to arrest Taruc on charges of deviating from the party line, leading to Taruc's surrender to the government. Alejandrino continued the struggle for three more years. In 1957, Alejandrino met up with remnants of the HMB in Zambales and gradually implement the strategy of legal struggle, ending the armed rebellion of the Hukbalahap.\n\nOn October 21, 1960, Alejandrino was arrested in Malabon on charges of violating RA 1700, known as the Anti-Subversion Law, and was imprisoned. He died on July 12, 2005.\n\nAlejandrino was a member of the well-to-do Alejandrino family, who were landowners in Pampanga. Members include General Jose Alejandrino, Pio Valenzuela (through Valenzuela's mother's side), Arayat mayor Bonifacio Emmanuel \"Bon\" Alejandrino, and president of the Hukvets foundation, Carlos Alejandrino. Bon and Carlos are both Casto's nephews.\n\nDuring his time in the guerrilla movement, Alejandrino had a wife and children living in the barrio. He also had two \"forest wives\" while in the field, Teofista Valerio and Belen Bagul-Bagul. Valerio (alias \"Estrella\") was the head of Huk communications in Manila. Valerio and Alejandrino were married in a Huk ceremony on May 26, 1948. Alejandrino and Valerio were separated on August 4, 1949, and would not meet until exactly twenty years later in 1970. They had one daughter. After Valerio's arrest and their separation, Alejandrino met Belen Bagul-Bagul. They were never married, although they had four children.\n"}
{"id": "25677829", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25677829", "title": "Charley Lockhart", "text": "Charley Lockhart\n\nCharley R. Lockhart (August 1876 - 1954) was Texas State Treasurer from 1931 - 1941. He was the shortest Texas elected official at 3'9\" (114 cm) tall.\n\nLockhart born in Dallas County, Texas in August 1876 to John C. R. and Lucretia Lockhart. They moved to Snyder, Texas in 1898.\n\nLockhart was elected Scurry County treasurer in 1900. He was re-elected to the county office eight times. In 1919 he went to Austin to work with the sergeant-at-arms of the Texas House of Representatives.\n\nIn 1930 he was elected state treasurer. In 1931, \"Ripley's Believe It Or Not\" featured a drawing of Lockhart under the caption \"Texas, the largest state in the Union, has the smallest treasurer, Charley Lockhart, 45 inches tall.\" The \"Houston Post\" interviewed Lockhart when he entered the race for the state treasurer's office, and he is quoted as saying, \"I want you to make it perfectly clear that I am fighting this battle on manhood alone,\" he said. \"I don't want the votes that are given me through a feeling that life has not handed me a square deal. Life has been good to me. I have filled public office, earned the confidence and friendship of my fellows and educated my children. . . . I'm simply a little man with big ideas and sufficient experience and ability to carry my ideas out...\"\n\nHe resigned his office on October 24, 1941 and was replaced by his hand-picked Deputy Jesse James.\n\nLockhart died in 1954 and was buried in the Snyder Cemetery.\n\n"}
{"id": "36539225", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36539225", "title": "Choirul Huda", "text": "Choirul Huda\n\nChoirul Huda (2 June 1979 – 15 October 2017) was an Indonesian professional footballer and civil servant.\n\nHuda began his career in Persela Lamongan since 1999 and stayed with the club until his death in 2017. He was dubbed \"The One Man, One Club, One Love\", and became a \"Legend\" for Persela Lamongan.\n\nIndonesian football writer Antony Sutton met Huda a few months ago while researching a book before his death\ndescribed him as :\n\n\"\"He played for his local team, he was living the dream,\". \"He was just happy in his skin and happy in his town.\"\"\n\n\"He's a legend - a one-club man, His ambition was to become his club's goalkeeping coach after he retired.\"\n\n\"He never created a fuss about anything. He loved what he was doing but did it in such an understated way.\"\n\nHe was married and had two children.\n\nHuda was given his first call-up for a 2015 AFC Asian Cup qualification in 1-1 draw against China on 15 October 2013.\nHuda was called-up seven times for Indonesia in his national career but he received no single caps.\n\nHuda died after an incident in the match against Semen Padang at 2017 Liga 1. He collided with a teammate, Ramon Rodrigues, while trying to collect the ball from an opponent and was struck in the chest. Paramedics immediately gave him sideline emergency treatment. A paramedic said that after the incident, he was still conscious and complained of a chest pain, but his condition soon relapsed and he later died from his injuries in a local hospital.\n\nAccording to a doctor in the local hospital, he suffered a collision on his chest and lower jaw, which caused hypoxia that ultimately led to his death. Moreover, due to severe injury, he might also have experienced trauma to his head, neck, and chest.\n\nSource:\n\n"}
{"id": "53274641", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53274641", "title": "Christine Shoecraft Smith", "text": "Christine Shoecraft Smith\n\nChristine Shoecraft Smith (July 1, 1866 – 1954) was an African-American community worker began her career as the assistant principal of the Alabama State Normal and Industrial School. She married an AME minister, who would become a bishop in the church and assisted him as the manager of the press organ of the Sunday School Union. She worked in many clubs and served as the 13th president of the National Association of Colored Women's Clubs (NACWC).\n\nChristine Shoecraft was born on July 1, 1866, in Indianapolis, Indiana, to Mary B. and A. R. Shoecraft. When she was two years old, Shoecraft's mother died and she was raised by her father and grandmother. The family moved to Muncie, when Shoecraft was eight. Though she worked at washing, ironing and in domestic labor during her schooling, she graduated from high school when she was 17. With her savings from working, she was able to buy her graduation dress.\n\nShoecraft was immediately offered a position as assistant principal of the State Normal and Industrial School in Normal, Alabama, serving in that capacity until December, 1887. The following year, in December, 1888, she married Rev. Charles Spencer Smith. Rev. Smith was the founder of the African Methodist Episcopal Church (AME)'s Sunday School Union. It was the largest press owned by African-Americans in the United States. Smith went to work at the press and served as a book-keeper, cashier, and clerk before becoming the assistant manager of the Union, the first woman to hold the post. Her work was not interrupted by the birth of their son, Charles Spencer Smith, Jr. and she founded the Women's Club of Nashville in 1896, aligning it with the National Association of Colored Women's Clubs (NACWC). By 1899, Smith was involved with the NACWC and had been elected as its recording secretary. She continued to serve as the assistant manager of the press through 1900, when Rev. Smith became a bishop of the AME Church. His work required him to travel widely, and Smith established a home in Detroit, Michigan.\n\nSmith was elected president of the Michigan State Association of Colored Women and was an executive member of the Detroit branch of the Urban League. In addition, she served on the executive of the Lucy Thurman YWCA branch and was the residential and maintenance secretary of the Detroit YWCA for six years. In 1916, Smith organized the Young People's Department of the AME Church's Women’s Parent Mite Missionary Society. In 1923, the year that her husband died, she was elected the first vice president of the Mite Society and in 1931 began serving as president of the organization. In that capacity, she traveled to Kingston, Jamaica several times, to make presentations and assist them in their missionary work. The Mite Society was an organization of women who both did social work in their community and raised funds to pay the salaries of those working as missionaries work abroad and build new churches. She served on the executive of numerous clubs and organizations, such as the United Council of Church Women, the Race Relations Commission of the Federal Council of Churches, the Women’s Missionary Society. She was a delegate to all of the biennial meetings of the NACWC and in 1946, was elected its president. As president, she traveled widely throughout the United States and made a to Mexico near the end of her term. For several years she had contributed articles to \"National Notes\" the newsletter of the NACWC, until it was suspended in 1935. Smith revived the publication in 1947 and became its editor-in-chief. Her term ended in 1948 and that same year, she was appointed to the board of the National Council for a Permanent Fair Employment.\n\nSmith died in 1954. Her papers created during her years of service to the NACWC are housed in a microfilm collection compiled by the Women’s Studies Department from the University at Albany, SUNY, Albany, New York.\n\n"}
{"id": "1825319", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1825319", "title": "Coat of arms of Monaco", "text": "Coat of arms of Monaco\n\nThe coat of arms of Monaco refers to the arms of dominion of the Sovereign Prince of Monaco in right of Monaco.\n\nThe shield is blazoned (described in the technical language of heraldry) as \"fusily\" (or \"lozengy\") \"argent\" and \"gules\".\n\nThe monks supporting the shield in the coat of arms allude to the conquest of Monaco in 1297, when François Grimaldi entered the city with soldiers dressed as monks, with swords hidden under their cassocks.\n\nThe collar surrounding the shield represents the Order of Saint-Charles.\n\nThe Grimaldi family's motto, \"Deo Juvante\", is Latin for \"With God's Help\".\n"}
{"id": "58586451", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58586451", "title": "Costantino Carrara", "text": "Costantino Carrara\n\nCostantino Carrara (born April 18, 1997 in Bitonto) is an Italian pianist and composer known for his popular piano arrangements uploaded on YouTube. His most viewed video of all time is his arrangement of \"Let Her Go\" by Passenger.\n\nIn 2016 Carrara set up a crowdfunding campaign for his WildPianos project, which proposes to bring piano music in nature. In the same year, the music brand Yamaha joined the project. Carrara shoot the first video in the series in the Apulian inland.\n\n"}
{"id": "4452048", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4452048", "title": "Daisy Bopanna", "text": "Daisy Bopanna\n\nDaisy Bopanna(born 4 December 1982) is an Indian actress who appears primarily in Kannada cinema. She has worked with actors like Upendra in \"Aishwarya\", Kamal Hassan in \"Rama Shama Bhama\" and Akshay Kumar in \"Garam Masala\".\n\nBopanna's family hails from Kodagu (also known by its Anglicised former name of Coorg). She was born on 4 December 1982. Daisy did her schooling from Aurobindo School, pre-university at Kumarans College and graduated with a Bachelor of Fine Arts degree from Chitrakala Parishat in Bangalore, Karnataka. She is married to Amit Jaju, a partner with the forensic practice of Ernst & Young and son of Prakash Jaju. Her brother is an eminent advertising professional working in Mumbai.\n\nShe started with theater, working for a short time with B. Jayasri's Spandana theatre camp and also contemporary English theatre with Preetam Koilpillai, and never looked back. Her first movie \"Bimba\" (The Image) was sent to the prestigious Berlin & Frankfurt Film Festival, winning international awards. The movie, directed by Kavitha Lankesh, explored the exploitation of child artistes in the film industry. Her later work in \"Bhagavan\" with Darshan earned her the tag of \"Spicy Daisy\".\n\nAfter that Daisy went on to act in many films such as \"Rama Shyama Bhama\", \"Thavarina Siri\", \"Aishwarya\", \"Satyavaan Savitri\", \"Gaalipata\", \"Olave Jeevana Lekkachara\", \"Crazy Loka\" and other films. Daisy proved that she is a good performer in all these films. Daisy event went on to act in Hindi films like \"Garam Masala\", where she was seen opposite Akshay Kumar and John Abraham. Though the film was a hit, Daisy had to wait for another two years to find herself a next project. The next project came in the form of \"United Six\", which was average at the box office.\n\nShe starred in more than 150 regional ads before being cast in the Priyadarshan movie \"Garam Masala\". She has also starred in a Tamil and Telugu film, opposite leading stars like Kamal Hassan,Ravi Teja and Ganesh. Her first ad film was with veteran ad film maker Rajiv Menon.\n\n"}
{"id": "90646", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90646", "title": "Dan Wédo", "text": "Dan Wédo\n\nDan Wédo is a loa of the waters in the form of a great serpent in Vodou.\n\nHe is syncretized with the image of St. Louis IX, a King of France (1226-1270) who died of disease while on crusade. St. Louis is usually depicted in armor and crowned.\n"}
{"id": "13262243", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13262243", "title": "Daryl Holton", "text": "Daryl Holton\n\nDaryl Keith Holton (November 23, 1961 – September 12, 2007) was an American Gulf War veteran and convicted child killer, executed by electrocution by the state of Tennessee on September 12, 2007 in Riverbend Maximum Security Institution in Nashville.\n\nHolton, a Gulf War Veteran, was 36 years old when he shot his three young sons and their half-sister (Stephen Edward Holton (12), Brent Holton (10), Eric Holton (6), and Kayla Marie Holton (4)) with a Chinese-made semi-automatic rifle on November 30, 1997, at the garage where he worked in Shelbyville, Tennessee. Holton was divorced, and his ex-wife had custody of the children. About an hour later, Holton turned himself in to the Shelbyville police; he told investigators that he had killed the children because \"families should stay together; a father should be with his children.\" He said he had also planned to kill his ex-wife and then himself, but had changed his mind.\n\nAt his June 1999 trial, Holton declined to testify on his own behalf, although his attorney sought to convince the jury that Holton was mentally incompetent at the time of the killings. Witnesses for the defense testified that Holton showed signs of carbon monoxide poisoning, although they could not definitively conclude that he had been exposed to carbon monoxide. Psychiatrists for the state and the defense also testified that Holton had major depressive disorder and passive-aggressive personality disorder at the time of the murders. The jury rejected the insanity defense; Holton was found guilty and sentenced to death.\n\nDuring his imprisonment, Holton became an amateur legal expert, and he took steps to ignore the automatic and voluntary appeals process afforded to all condemned men and women under state and U.S. law. He also declined to cooperate with the federally or state-appointed capital defenders who sought to offer him legal assistance and counsel. For this reason, he is often included among the group described as death row \"volunteers.\"\n\nHolton chose to die in the electric chair, rather than by lethal injection, which is now the standard method of execution in Tennessee. Death-row inmates who committed their capital crime when the electric chair was still the official execution method are permitted to choose between the two methods. Holton was the first person to be executed by electrocution in Tennessee in 47 years. Moments before his execution, prison warden Ricky Bell asked Holton if he had any final words. He replied: \"Two words: I do\". He decided against the traditional special last meal before his execution and instead, ate the regular prison meal which consisted of riblets on a bun, mixed vegetables, baked beans, white cake with white icing and iced tea.\n\nHolton's was the fourth execution in Tennessee since 2000 and first by the electric chair since 1960 (the last Pre-Furman execution). It was also the first use of Tennessee's electric chair after it was retrofitted by Fred A. Leuchter and moved to Riverbend from the former Tennessee State Prison. Holton was the third death row inmate executed under administration of Governor Phil Bredesen. He was also the first American put to death by electrocution since July 20, 2006. The last was Brandon Wayne Hedrick in Virginia, who also chose electrocution over injection. His dead body was cremated after his execution. A first hand account of the execution was documented by Holton's attorney, David Raybin.\n\nHis case raised some controversy because of rumors about his history of mental illness. While execution of the mentally retarded was prohibited by the U.S. Supreme Court case \"Atkins v. Virginia\" of 2002, the execution of the mentally ill has never been held to be in violation of the Eighth Amendment.\n\nHolton, his motives, and the ethics of his execution are examined in the documentary film \"Robert Blecker Wants Me Dead\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8280", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8280", "title": "Demon", "text": "Demon\n\nA demon is a supernatural and often malevolent being prevalent in religion, occultism, literature, fiction, mythology and folklore.\n\nThe original Greek word \"daimon\" does not carry negative connotations. The Ancient Greek word \"daimōn\" denotes a spirit or divine power, much like the Latin \"genius\" or \"numen\". The Greek conception of a \"daimōn\" notably appears in the works of Plato, where it describes the divine inspiration of Socrates. \n\nIn Ancient Near Eastern religions and in the Abrahamic traditions, including ancient and medieval Christian demonology, a demon is considered a harmful spiritual entity which may cause demonic possession, calling for an exorcism. \nIn Western occultism and Renaissance magic, which grew out of an amalgamation of Greco-Roman magic, Jewish Aggadah and Christian demonology, a demon is believed to be a spiritual entity that may be conjured and controlled.\n\nThe Ancient Greek word \"daimōn\" denotes a spirit or divine power, much like the Latin \"genius\" or \"numen\". \"Daimōn\" most likely came from the Greek verb \"daiesthai\" (to divide, distribute). The Greek conception of a \"daimōn\" notably appears in the works of Plato, where it describes the divine inspiration of Socrates. To distinguish the classical Greek concept from its later Christian interpretation, the former is anglicized as either \"daemon\" or \"daimon\" rather than \"demon\". The original Greek word \"daimon\" does not carry the negative connotation initially understood by implementation of the Koine (\"daimonion\"), and later ascribed to any cognate words sharing the root.\n\nThe Greek terms do not have any connotations of evil or malevolence. In fact, \"eudaimonia\", (literally good-spiritedness) means happiness. By the early Roman Empire, cult statues were seen, by pagans and their Christian neighbors alike, as inhabited by the numinous presence of the gods: \"Like pagans, Christians still sensed and saw the gods and their power, and as something, they had to assume, lay behind it, by an easy traditional shift of opinion they turned these pagan \"daimones\" into malevolent 'demons', the troupe of Satan... Far into the Byzantine period Christians eyed their cities' old pagan statuary as a seat of the demons' presence. It was no longer beautiful, it was infested.\" The term had first acquired its negative connotations in the Septuagint translation of the Hebrew Bible into Greek, which drew on the mythology of ancient Semitic religions. This was then inherited by the Koine text of the New Testament. The Western medieval and neo-medieval conception of a \"demon\" derives seamlessly from the ambient popular culture of Late Antiquity. The Hellenistic \"daemon\" eventually came to include many Semitic and Near Eastern gods as evaluated by Christianity.\n\nThe supposed existence of demons remains an important concept in many modern religions and occultist traditions. Demons are still feared largely due to their alleged power to possess living creatures. In the contemporary Western occultist tradition (perhaps epitomized by the work of Aleister Crowley), a demon (such as Choronzon, which is Crowley's interpretation of the so-called 'Demon of the Abyss') is a useful metaphor for certain inner psychological processes (inner demons), though some may also regard it as an objectively real phenomenon. Some scholars believe that large portions of the demonology (see Asmodai) of Judaism, a key influence on Christianity and Islam, originated from a later form of Zoroastrianism, and were transferred to Judaism during the Persian era.\n\nBoth deities and demons can act as intermediaries to deliver messages to humans. Thus they share some resemblance to the Greek daimonion. The exact definition of \"demon\" in Egyptology posed a major problem for modern scholarship, since the borders between a deity and a demon are sometimes blurred and the ancient Egyptian language lacks a term for the modern English \"demon\". However, magical writings indicate that ancient Egyptians acknowledged the existence of malevolent demons by highlighting the demon names with red ink. Demons in this culture appeared to be subordinative and related to a specific deity, yet they may have occasionally acted independent from the divine will. The existence of demons can be related to the realm of chaos, beyond the created world. But even this negative connotation cannot be denied in light of the magical texts. The role of demons in relation to the human world remains ambivalent and largely depends on context.\n\nAncient Egyptian demons can be divided into two classes: \"guardians\" and \"wanderers.\" \"Guardians\" are tied to a specific place; their demonic activity is topographically defined and their function can be benevolent towards those who have the secret knowledge to face them. Demons protecting the underworld may prevent human souls from entering paradise. Only by knowing right charms is the deceased able to enter the \"Halls of Osiris\". Here, the aggressive nature of the guardian demons is motivated by the need to protect their abodes and not by their evil essence. Accordingly, demons guarded sacred places or the gates to the netherworld. During the Ptolemaic and Roman period, the guardians shifted towards the role of Genius loci and they were the focus of local and private cults. \n\nThe \"wanderers\" are associated with possession, mental illness, death and plagues. Many of them serve as executioners for the major deities, such as Ra or Osiris, when ordered to punish humans on earth or in the netherworld. Wanderers can also be agents of chaos, arising from the world beyond creation to bring about misfortune and suffering without any divine instructions, led only by evil motivations. The influences of the wanderers can be warded off and kept at the borders on the human world by the use of magic, but they can never be destroyed. A sub-category of \"wanderers\" are nightmare demons, which were believed to cause nightmares by entering a human body.\n\nAccording to the Jewish Encyclopedia, \"In Chaldean mythology the seven evil deities were known as \"shedu\", storm-demons, represented in ox-like form.\" They were represented as winged bulls, derived from the colossal bulls used as protective jinn of royal palaces.\n\nFrom Chaldea, the term \"shedu\" traveled to the Israelites. The writers of the Tanach applied the word as a dialogism to Canaanite deities.\n\nThere are indications that demons in popular Hebrew mythology were believed to come from the nether world. Various diseases and ailments were ascribed to them, particularly those affecting the brain and those of internal nature. Examples include catalepsy, headache, epilepsy and nightmares. There also existed a demon of blindness, \"Shabriri\" (lit. \"dazzling glare\") who rested on uncovered water at night and blinded those who drank from it.\n\nDemons supposedly entered the body and caused the disease while overwhelming or \"seizing\" the victim. To cure such diseases, it was necessary to draw out the evil demons by certain incantations and talismanic performances, at which the Essenes excelled. Josephus, who spoke of demons as \"spirits of the wicked which enter into men that are alive and kill them\", but which could be driven out by a certain root, witnessed such a performance in the presence of the Emperor Vespasian and ascribed its origin to King Solomon. In mythology, there were few defences against Babylonian demons. The mythical mace Sharur had the power to slay demons such as Asag, a legendary gallu or edimmu of hideous strength.\n\nAs referring to the existence or non-existence of demons (\"shedim\" or \"Se'irim\") there are converse opinions in Judaism. There are \"practically nil\" roles assigned to demons in the Hebrew Bible. In Judaism today, beliefs in \"demons\" or \"evil spirits\" are either \"midot hasidut\" (Hebr. for \"customs of the pious\"), and therefore not halachah, or notions based on a superstition that are non-essential, non-binding parts of Judaism, and therefore not normative Jewish practice. In conclusion, Jews are not obligated to believe in the existence of \"shedim\", as posek rabbi David Bar-Hayim points out.\n\nThe Tanakh mentions two classes of demonic spirits, the \"se'irim\" and the \"shedim\". The word \"shedim\" appears only in two places in the Tanakh (, ). The \"se'irim\" are mentioned once in , probably a re-calling of Assyrian demons in shape of goats. The \"shedim\" in return are not pagan demigods, but the foreign gods themselves. Both entities appear in a scriptural context of animal or child sacrifice to \"non-existent\" false gods.\n\nIn the Jerusalem Talmud notions of \"shedim\" (\"demons\" or \"spirits\") are almost unknown or occur only very rarely, whereas in the Babylon Talmud there are many references to \"shedim\" and magical incantations. The existence of \"shedim\" in general was not questioned by most of the Babylonian Talmudists. As a consequence of the rise of influence of the Babylonian Talmud over that of the Jerusalem Talmud, late rabbis in general took as fact the existence of \"shedim\", nor did most of the medieval thinkers question their reality. However, rationalists like Maimonides, Saadia Gaon and Abraham ibn Ezra and others explicitly denied their existence, and completely rejected concepts of demons, evil spirits, negative spiritual influences, attaching and possessing spirits. Their point of view eventually became mainstream Jewish understanding.\n\nIn Kabbalah demons are regarded a necessary part of the divine emanation in the material world and a byproduct of human sin (Qliphoth). However spirits such as the \"shedim\" may also be benevolent and were used in kabbalistic ceremonies (as with the \"golem\" of Rabbi Yehuda Loevy) and malevolent \"shedim\" (\"mazikin\", from the root meaning \"to damage\") were often credited with possession.\n\nAggadic tales from the Persian tradition describe the \"shedim\", the \" mazziḳim\" (\"harmers\"), and the \" ruḥin\" (\"spirits\"). There were also \"lilin\" (\"night spirits\"), \" ṭelane\" (\"shade\", or \"evening spirits\"), \" ṭiharire\" (\"midday spirits\"), and \" ẓafrire\" (\"morning spirits\"), as well as the \"demons that bring famine\" and \"such as cause storm and earthquake\". According to some aggadic stories, demons were under the dominion of a king or chief, either Asmodai or, in the older Aggadah, Samael (\"the angel of death\"), who killed via poison. Stories in the fashion of this kind of folklore never became an essential feature of Jewish theology. Although occasionally an angel is called \"satan\" in the Babylon Talmud, this does not refer to a demon: \"Stand not in the way of an ox when coming from the pasture, for Satan dances between his horns\".\n\nTo the Qumran community during the Second Temple period this apotropaic prayer was assigned, stating: \"And, I the Sage, declare the grandeur of his radiance in order to frighten and terri[fy] all the spirits of the ravaging angels and the bastard spirits, demons, Liliths, owls\" (\"Dead Sea Scrolls\", \"Songs of the Sage,\" Lines 4–5).\n\nIn the Dead Sea Scrolls, there exists a fragment entitled \"Curses of Belial\" (\"Curses of Belial (Dead Sea Scrolls, 394, 4Q286(4Q287, fr. 6)=4QBerakhot)\"). This fragment holds much rich language that reflects the sentiment shared between the Qumran towards Belial. In many ways this text shows how these people thought Belial influenced sin through the way they address him and speak of him. By addressing \"Belial and all his guilty lot,\" (4Q286:2) they make it clear that he is not only impious, but also guilty of sins. Informing this state of uncleanliness are both his \"hostile\" and \"wicked design\" (4Q286:3,4). Through this design, Belial poisons the thoughts of those who are not necessarily sinners. Thus a dualism is born from those inclined to be wicked and those who aren't. It is clear that Belial directly influences sin by the mention of \"abominable plots\" and \"guilty inclination\" (4Q286:8,9). These are both mechanisms by which Belial advances his evil agenda that the Qumran have exposed and are calling upon God to protect them from. There is a deep sense of fear that Belial will \"establish in their heart their evil devices\" (4Q286:11,12). This sense of fear is the stimulus for this prayer in the first place. Without the worry and potential of falling victim to Belial's demonic sway, the Qumran people would never feel impelled to craft a curse. This very fact illuminates the power Belial was believed to hold over mortals, and the fact that sin proved to be a temptation that must stem from an impure origin.\n\nIn Jubilees 1:20, Belial's appearance continues to support the notion that sin is a direct product of his influence. Moreover, Belial's presence acts as a placeholder for all negative influences or those that would potentially interfere with God's will and a pious existence. Similarly to the \"gentiles ... [who] cause them to sin against you\" (Jubilees 1:19), Belial is associated with a force that drives one away from God. Coupled in this plea for protection against foreign rule, in this case the Egyptians, is a plea for protection from \"the spirit of Belial\" (Jubilees 1:19). Belial's tendency is to \"ensnare [you] from every path of righteousness\" (Jubilees 1:19). This phrase is intentionally vague, allowing room for interpretation. Everyone, in one way or another, finds themselves straying from the path of righteousness and by pawning this transgression off on Belial, he becomes a scapegoat for all misguidance, no matter what the cause. By associating Belial with all sorts of misfortune and negative external influence, the Qumran people are henceforth allowed to be let off for the sins they commit.\n\nBelial's presence is found throughout the War Scrolls, located in the Dead Sea Scrolls, and is established as the force occupying the opposite end of the spectrum of God. In Col. I, verse 1, the very first line of the document, it is stated that \"the first attack of the Sons of Light shall be undertaken against the forces of the Sons of Darkness, the army of Belial\" (1Q33;1:1). This dichotomy sheds light on the negative connotations that Belial held at the time. Where God and his Sons of Light are forces that protect and promote piety, Belial and his Sons of Darkness cater to the opposite, instilling the desire to sin and encouraging destruction. This opposition is only reinforced later in the document; it continues to read that the \"holy ones\" will \"strike a blow at wickedness\", ultimately resulting in the \"annihilation of the Sons of Darkness\" (1Q33:1:13). This epic battle between good and evil described in such abstract terms, however it is also applicable to everyday life and serves as a lens through which the Qumran see the world. Every day is the Sons of Light battle evil and call upon God to help them overcome evil in ways small and large.\n\nBelial's influence is not taken lightly. In Col. XI, verse 8, the text depicts God conquering the \"hordes of Belial\" (1Q33;11:8). This defeat is indicative of God's power over Belial and his forces of temptation. However the fact that Belial is the leader of hordes is a testament to how persuasive he can be. If Belial was obviously an arbiter of wrongdoing and was blatantly in the wrong, he wouldn't be able to amass an army. This fact serves as a warning message, reasserting God's strength, while also making it extremely clear the breadth of Belial's prowess. Belial's \"council is to condemn and convict\", so the Qumran feel strongly that their people are not only aware of his purpose, but also equipped to combat his influence (1Q33;13:11).\n\nIn the Damascus Document, Belial also makes a prominent appearance, being established as a source of evil and an origin of several types of sin. In Column 4, the first mention of Belial reads: \"Belial shall be unleashed against Israel\" (4Q266). This phrase is able to be interpreted myriad different ways. Belial is characterized in a wild and uncontrollable fashion, making him seem more dangerous and unpredictable. The notion of being unleashed is such that once he is free to roam; he is unstoppable and able to carry out his agenda uninhibited. The passage then goes to enumerate the \"three nets\" (4Q266;4:16) by which Belial captures his prey and forces them to sin. \"Fornication ..., riches ..., [and] the profanation of the temple\" (4Q266;4:17,18) make up the three nets. These three temptations were three agents by which people were driven to sin, so subsequently, the Qumran people crafted the nets of Belial to rationalize why these specific temptations were so toxic. Later in Column 5, Belial is mentioned again as one of \"the removers of bound who led Israel astray\" (4Q266;5:20). This statement is a clear display of Belial's influence over man regarding sin. The passage goes on to state: \"they preached rebellion against ... God\" (4Q266;5:21,22). Belial's purpose is to undermine the teachings of God, and he achieves this by imparting his nets on humans, or the incentive to sin.\n\nIn the \"War of the Sons of Light Against the Sons of Darkness\", Belial controls scores of demons, which are specifically allotted to him by God for the purpose of performing evil. Belial, despite his malevolent disposition, is considered an angel.\n\nDemons in the Old Testament of the Christian Bible are of two classes: the \"satyrs\" or \"shaggy goats\" (from Hebr. \"se'irim\" \"hairy beings\" and Greek Old Testament σάτυρος \"satyros\", \"satyr\"; , ) and the \"demons\" (from Hebr. \"shedim\", and Koine Greek δαιμόνιον \"daimonion\"; , ).\n\nThe term \"demon\" (from the Greek New Testament δαιμόνιον \"daimonion\") appears 63 times in the New Testament of the Christian Bible.\n\nDemons are sometimes included into biblical interpretation. In the story of Passover, the Bible tells the story as \"the Lord struck down all the firstborn in Egypt\" (Exodus 12:21–29). In the Book of Jubilees, which is considered canonical only by the Ethiopian Orthodox Church, this same event is told slightly differently: \"All the powers of [the demon] Mastema had been let loose to slay all the first-born in the land of Egypt...And the powers of the Lord did everything according as the Lord commanded them\" (Jubilees 49:2–4).\n\nIn the Genesis flood narrative the author explains how God was noticing \"how corrupt the earth had become, for all the people on earth had corrupted their ways\" (Genesis 6:12). In Jubilees the sins of man are attributed to \"the unclean demons [who] began to lead astray the children of the sons of Noah, and to make to err and destroy them\" (Jubilees 10:1). In Jubilees Mastema questions the loyalty of Abraham and tells God to \"bid him offer him as a burnt offering on the altar, and Thou wilt see if he will do this command\" (Jubilees 17:16). The discrepancy between the story in Jubilees and the story in Genesis 22 exists with the presence of Mastema. In Genesis, God tests the will of Abraham merely to determine whether he is a true follower, however; in Jubilees Mastema has an agenda behind promoting the sacrifice of Abraham's son, \"an even more demonic act than that of the Satan in Job.\" In Jubilees, where Mastema, an angel tasked with the tempting of mortals into sin and iniquity, requests that God give him a tenth of the spirits of the children of the watchers, demons, in order to aid the process. These demons are passed into Mastema’s authority, where once again, an angel is in charge of demonic spirits.\nThe sources of demonic influence were thought to originate from the Watchers or Nephilim, who are first mentioned in Genesis 6 and are the focus of 1 Enoch Chapters 1–16, and also in Jubilees 10. The Nephilim were seen as the source of the sin and evil on earth because they are referenced in Genesis 6:4 before the story of the Flood. In Genesis 6:5, God sees evil in the hearts of men. The passage states, \"the wickedness of humankind on earth was great\", and that \"Every inclination of the thoughts of their hearts was only continually evil\" (Genesis 5). The mention of the Nephilim in the preceding sentence connects the spread of evil to the Nephilim. Enoch is a very similar story to Genesis 6:4–5, and provides further description of the story connecting the Nephilim to the corruption of humans. In Enoch, sin originates when angels descend from heaven and fornicate with women, birthing giants as tall as 300 cubits. The giants and the angels' departure of Heaven and mating with human women are also seen as the source of sorrow and sadness on Earth. The book of Enoch shows that these fallen angels can lead humans to sin through direct interaction or through providing forbidden knowledge. In Enoch, Semyaz leads the angels to mate with women. Angels mating with humans is against God's commands and is a cursed action, resulting in the wrath of God coming upon Earth. Azazel indirectly influences humans to sin by teaching them divine knowledge not meant for humans. Asael brings down the \"stolen mysteries\" (Enoch 16:3). Asael gives the humans weapons, which they use to kill each other. Humans are also taught other sinful actions such as beautification techniques, alchemy, astrology and how to make medicine (considered forbidden knowledge at the time). Demons originate from the evil spirits of the giants that are cursed by God to wander the earth. These spirits are stated in Enoch to \"corrupt, fall, be excited, and fall upon the earth, and cause sorrow\" (Enoch 15:11).\n\nThe Book of Jubilees conveys that sin occurs when Cainan accidentally transcribes astrological knowledge used by the Watchers (Jubilees 8). This differs from Enoch in that it does not place blame on the Angels. However, in Jubilees 10:4 the evil spirits of the Watchers are discussed as evil and still remain on earth to corrupt the humans. God binds only 90 percent of the Watchers and destroys them, leaving 10 percent to be ruled by Mastema. Because the evil in humans is great, only 10 percent would be needed to corrupt and lead humans astray. These spirits of the giants also referred to as \"the bastards\" in the Apotropaic prayer Songs of the Sage, which lists the names of demons the narrator hopes to expel.\n\nIn Christianity, demons are corrupted spirits carrying the execution of Satan's desires. They are generally regarded as three different types of spirits:\n\nOften deities of other religions are interpreted or identified as such \"demons\" (from the Greek Old Testament δαιμόνιον \"daimonion\"). The evolution of the Christian Devil and pentagram are examples of early rituals and images that showcase evil qualities, as seen by the Christian churches.\n\nSince Early Christianity, demonology has developed from a simple acceptance of demons to a complex study that has grown from the original ideas taken from Jewish demonology and Christian scriptures. Christian demonology is studied in depth within the Roman Catholic Church, although many other Christian churches affirm and discuss the existence of demons.\n\nBuilding upon the few references to \"daemons\" in the New Testament, especially the poetry of the Book of Revelation, Christian writers of apocrypha from the 2nd century onwards created a more complicated tapestry of beliefs about \"demons\" that was largely independent of Christian scripture.\n\nThe contemporary Roman Catholic Church unequivocally teaches that angels and demons are real beings rather than just symbolic devices. The Catholic Church has a cadre of officially sanctioned exorcists which perform many exorcisms each year. The exorcists of the Catholic Church teach that demons attack humans continually but that afflicted persons can be effectively healed and protected either by the formal rite of exorcism, authorized to be performed only by bishops and those they designate, or by prayers of deliverance, which any Christian can offer for themselves or others.\n\nAt various times in Christian history, attempts have been made to classify demons according to various proposed demonic hierarchies.\n\nIn the Gospels, particularly the Gospel of Mark, Jesus cast out many demons from those afflicted with various ailments. He also lent this power to some of his disciples ().\n\nApuleius, by Augustine of Hippo, is ambiguous as to whether \"daemons\" had become \"demonized\" by the early 5th century:\n\nHe [Apulieus] also states that the blessed are called in Greek \"eudaimones\", because they are good souls, that is to say, good demons, confirming his opinion that the souls of men are demons.\n\nIslam and Islam-related beliefs acknowledges the concept of evil spirits known as malevolent Jinn, Afarit and Shayatin. Unlike the belief in angels, belief in demons is not obligated by the six articles of Islamic faith. However, the existence of several demonic spirits is generally assumed by Islamic theology and further elaborated beliefs persist in Islamic folklore. Furthermore the Quran mentions the \"Zabaniyya\", who torture the damned in hell, who may originated from a class of Arabian demons. However, their execution of punishment is in accordance with Gods order, therefore they are not equalized with Shayatin, who in turn are rebellious against the divine will.\nRather than demonic, Jinn are depicted as close to humans regarded as living in societies, in need of dwelling places, eating and drinking, and although their lifespan exceeds those of humans over centuries, they die and also need to procreate, but because they are created from \"smokeless fire\" in contrast to humans made from \"solid earth\", the latter can not see them. As for humans, Jinn are also subject to temptations of the Shayatin and Satan therefore may either be good or evil. Evil Jinn are comparable to demons, scaring or possessing humans. In folklore some Jinn may also lurk on lonely travelers to dissuade them from their paths and eat their corpses. Although not evil, a Jinni may haunt a person, because it feels offended by him. Islam has no binding origin story of Jinn, but Islamic beliefs commonly assume that the Jinn were created on a Thursday thousands of years before mankind. Therefore Islamic medieval narratives often called them \"Pre-Adamites\".\n\nOtherweise the Shayatin are the Islamic equivalent of \"demons\" in western usage.\nIslam differs in regard of the origin of demons. They may either be a class of heavenly creatures cast out of heaven or the descendants of Iblis. Unlike Jinn and humans, Shayatin are immortal and will just die, then the world perishes, however prayers could dissolve or banish them. However unlike Jinn and human, Shayatin can not attain salvation. Further they are thought to attempt to reach to heaven, but are chased away from the Angels or shooting stars. The Shayatin do not possess people, but \"whisper\" to their minds and seduce them into falsehood and sin. These are called \"waswās\" and may enter the hearts of humans to support negative feelings, especially in states of strong emotion like depression or anger.\n\nAnother demonic spirit is called Ifrit and although there are no descriptions regarding an Iftrits behavior found in Islamic canonical texts, Folk Islam often depicts them with traits of malevolent ghost, returning after death or a subcategory of Shayatin drawn the life-force of those who were murdered. However they are not exactly Shayatin since they differ in their origin.\n\nHindu beliefs include numerous varieties of spirits that might be classified as demigods, including Vetalas, Bhutas and Pishachas. Rakshasas and Asuras are often misunderstood to be as demons. There are no demons in Hinduism as hinduism is not based on good and evil and is not constructed by the principle of duality. \n\nOriginally, \"Asura\", in the earliest hymns of the Rig Veda, meant any supernatural spirit, either good or bad. Since the /s/ of the Indic linguistic branch is cognate with the /h/ of the Early Iranian languages, the word \"Asura\", representing a category of celestial beings, became the word \"Ahura\" (Mazda), the Supreme God of the monotheistic Zoroastrians. Ancient Hinduism tells that Devas (also called \"suras\") and Asuras are half-brothers, sons of the same father Kashyapa; although some of the Devas, such as Varuna, are also called Asuras. Later, during Puranic age, Asura and Rakshasa came to exclusively mean any of a race of anthropomorphic, powerful, possibly evil beings. Daitya (lit. sons of the mother \"Diti\"), Rakshasa (lit. from \"harm to be guarded against\"), and Asura are incorrectly translated into English as \"demon\".\n\nPost Vedic, Hindu scriptures, pious, highly enlightened Asuras, such as Prahlada and Vibhishana, are not uncommon. The Asura are not fundamentally against the gods, nor do they tempt humans to fall. Many people metaphorically interpret the Asura as manifestations of the ignoble passions in the human mind and as a symbolic devices. There were also cases of power-hungry Asuras challenging various aspects of the Gods, but only to be defeated eventually and seek forgiveness—see Surapadman and Narakasura.\n\nHinduism advocates the reincarnation and transmigration of souls according to one's karma. Souls (Atman) of the dead are adjudged by the Yama and are accorded various purging punishments before being reborn. Humans that have committed extraordinary wrongs are condemned to roam as lonely, often mischief mongers, spirits for a length of time before being reborn. Many kinds of such spirits (Vetalas, Pishachas, Bhūta) are recognized in the later Hindu texts.\n\nIn the Bahá'í Faith, demons are not regarded as independent evil spirits as they are in some faiths. Rather, evil spirits described in various faiths' traditions, such as Satan, fallen angels, demons and jinn, are metaphors for the base character traits a human being may acquire and manifest when he turns away from God and follows his lower nature. Belief in the existence of ghosts and earthbound spirits is rejected and considered to be the product of superstition.\n\nWhile some people fear demons, or attempt to exorcise them, others willfully attempt to summon them for knowledge, assistance, or power. The ceremonial magician usually consults a grimoire, which gives the names and abilities of demons as well as detailed instructions for conjuring and controlling them. Grimoires are not limited to demons – some give the names of angels or spirits which can be called, a process called theurgy. The use of ceremonial magic to call demons is also known as goetia, the name taken from a section in the famous grimoire known as the \"Lesser Key of Solomon\".\n\nAccording to Rosemary Ellen Guiley, \"Demons are not courted or worshipped in contemporary Wicca and Paganism. The existence of negative energies is acknowledged.\"\n\nPsychologist Wilhelm Wundt remarked that \"among the activities attributed by myths all over the world to demons, the harmful predominate, so that in popular belief bad demons are clearly older than good ones.\" Sigmund Freud developed this idea and claimed that the concept of demons was derived from the important relation of the living to the dead: \"The fact that demons are always regarded as the spirits of those who have died \"recently\" shows better than anything the influence of mourning on the origin of the belief in demons.\"\n\nM. Scott Peck, an American psychiatrist, wrote two books on the subject, \"People of the Lie: The Hope For Healing Human Evil\" and \"Glimpses of the Devil: A Psychiatrist's Personal Accounts of Possession, Exorcism, and Redemption\". Peck describes in some detail several cases involving his patients. In \"People of the Lie\" he provides identifying characteristics of an evil person, whom he classified as having a character disorder. In \"Glimpses of the Devil\" Peck goes into significant detail describing how he became interested in exorcism in order to debunk the \"myth\" of possession by evil spirits – only to be convinced otherwise after encountering two cases which did not fit into any category known to psychology or psychiatry. Peck came to the conclusion that possession was a rare phenomenon related to evil and that possessed people are not actually evil; rather, they are doing battle with the forces of evil.\n\nAlthough Peck's earlier work was met with widespread popular acceptance, his work on the topics of evil and possession has generated significant debate and derision. Much was made of his association with (and admiration for) the controversial Malachi Martin, a Roman Catholic priest and a former Jesuit, despite the fact that Peck consistently called Martin a liar and a manipulator. Richard Woods, a Roman Catholic priest and theologian, has claimed that Dr. Peck misdiagnosed patients based upon a lack of knowledge regarding dissociative identity disorder (formerly known as multiple personality disorder) and had apparently transgressed the boundaries of professional ethics by attempting to persuade his patients into accepting Christianity. Father Woods admitted that he has never witnessed a genuine case of demonic possession in all his years.\n\nAccording to S. N. Chiu, God is shown sending a demon against Saul in 1 Samuel 16 and 18 in order to punish him for the failure to follow God's instructions, showing God as having the power to use demons for his own purposes, putting the demon under his divine authority. According to the \"Britannica Concise Encyclopedia\", demons, despite being typically associated with evil, are often shown to be under divine control, and not acting of their own devices.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2363799", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2363799", "title": "Felice A. Beato", "text": "Felice A. Beato\n\nFelice A. Beato and Felice Antonio Beato are collective signatures used by the brothers Felice Beato and Antonio Beato, who were both pioneering photographers in the 19th century. They were noted for their depictions of everyday life in Orient.\n\nThe brothers sometimes worked together, signing their photographs collectively. Consequently, it was long assumed that such photographs were the work of one photographer who somehow managed to photograph at the same time in places as distant as Egypt and Japan. It was only in 1983 that the truth of the matter was revealed, in a paper by Italo Zannier. The confusion arising from the signatures continues to cause problems in identifying which of the two photographers was the creator of a given image. Both signatures may refer to either or both photographers.\n\nThe brothers were active in the Middle East and Asia from the early 1850s through to the early 20th century and were among the very first photographers to take photographs of the Orient. At that time, tourist travel to Middle East created strong demand for photographs as souvenirs. The Beato brothers were part of a group of early photographers who made their way to the East to capitalise on this demand. These pioneering photographers included Frenchmen, Félix Bonfils (1831-1885); Gustave Le Gray (1820-1884) and Hippolyte Arnoux, brothers Henri and Emile Bechard and the Greek Zangaki brothers, many of whom were in Egypt at the same time and entered into both formal and informal working partnerships. These early photographers, including the Beato Brothers, were among the first commercial photographers to produce images on a large scale in the Middle East.\n\nFrom time to time, the brothers split up and joined with other pioneering photographers for specific projects. In 1855, one of the brothers, Felix, teamed up with the pair's brother-in-law, James Robertson and travelled to the Crimea where they assumed responsibility for war photography. and made their reputation by depicting the destruction and death associated with the conflict. Their Crimean images dramatically changed the way that war was reported and depicted.\n\nIn July 1858 Antonio joined Felice in Calcutta. Felice had been in India since the beginning of the year photographing the aftermath of the Indian Rebellion of 1857, but Antonio left India the following year for health reasons, and headed for Malta by way of Suez. By the early 1860, Antonio was in Cairo where he opened a photographic studio and went into partnership with the French photographer, Hippolyte Arnoux. In 1864, the brothers were living and working in Japan.\n\nThe Beato Brothers images of Egypt were distinctly different to those of other pioneering photographers working in the Orient. Whereas most photographers focussed on the grandeur of monuments and architecture, the Beatos concentrated on scenes of everyday life.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37354201", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37354201", "title": "Foreign, Comparative, and International Law Librarian", "text": "Foreign, Comparative, and International Law Librarian\n\nForeign, comparative, and international law librarians, also known as FCIL librarians, are law librarian specialists who work specifically with three primary varieties of extra-jurisdictional law. FCIL librarians work with foreign law, comparative law, and international law. Foreign laws are the laws of any international jurisdiction. Comparative laws are “the scholarly study of the similarities and differences between the legal systems of different jurisdictions.” International law is the law of international organizations, such as the United Nations, and the laws between nations, such as those established by treaty.\n"}
{"id": "57732", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57732", "title": "Franc Miklošič", "text": "Franc Miklošič\n\nFranc Miklošič (also known in German as ) (20 November 1813 – 7 March 1891) was a Slovene philologist.\n\nMiklošič was born in the small village of Radomerščak near the Lower Styrian town of Ljutomer, then part of the Austrian Empire. He graduated from the University of Graz with a doctor of philosophy degree.\n\nHe was professor of philosophy at the University of Graz. In 1838, he went to the University of Vienna, where he received the degree of doctor of law. During his studies, he became influenced by the works of the Slovenian philologist and linguist Jernej Kopitar. He abandoned law, devoting most of his later life to the study of Slavic languages.\n\nIn 1844, he obtained a post at the Imperial Library of Vienna, where he remained to 1862. In 1844, he published a review of Franz Bopp's book \"Comparative Grammar,\" which attracted attention from the Viennese academic circles. This publication then launched a long series of works, in which Miklošič showed an immense erudition. His works led to a revolutionary change in the study of Slavic languages.\n\nIn 1849 Miklošič was appointed to the newly created chair of Slavic philology at the University of Vienna, and he occupied it until 1886. He became a member of the Academy of Vienna, which appointed him secretary of its historical and philosophical section, a member of the council of public instruction and of the upper house, and correspondent of the French Academy of Inscriptions and Humanities. His numerous writings deal not only with the Slavic languages, but also with Romanian, Aromanian, Albanian, Greek, and Romani.\n\nFrom 1872-1880, Miklošič published his original survey of Romani dialects, \"Über die Mundarten und Wanderungen der Zigeuner Europas\". This work included a discussion of their origins, migration routes, an historical-comparative grammar, and a lexicon. He identified a substantial Greek element that was shared by the Romani dialects, and thus named a \"Greek-speaking area\" as the \"European homeland of the Gypsies\".\n\nIn the Spring of Nations of 1848, Miklošič, who was 35 at the time, actively engaged in the Slovene national movement. He was the chairman of the political association, called \"Slovenija\" (Slovenia) organized by Slovene students that studied in Graz and Vienna. Together with Matija Majar and Lovro Toman, he was among the authors who elaborated the political demand for a United Slovenia. After the failure of the revolutionary requests, he again turned to an exclusively academic activity.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8789728", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8789728", "title": "Francisco el Hombre", "text": "Francisco el Hombre\n\nFrancisco el Hombre \"(Francisco the Man)\" is a legendary character of Colombian folklore. He is the archetype of a \"juglar\" (roughly translated, jester or minstrel), a traditional player of Vallenato, a traditional Colombian genre of music. It is generally acknowledged that the popularly known story of Francisco el Hombre contains elements of myth, as well as historical fact.\n\nVallenato is a very important part of the Colombian culture as a whole, but especially its region on the Caribbean Coast. It originated in the \"Valle de Upar\" (Valley of Upar), which is also the origin of the genre's name (Vallenato literally translates to 'Born in the Valley' \"Valle=Valley, Nato=Born\"). There are a couple of integral aspects to the traditions surrounding Vallenato that are also important for the legend of Francisco el Hombre. The first is the instruments traditional to the playing of Vallenato, especially the accordion. The second is the concept of the \"piqueria\". A \"piqueria\" is a showdown between two \"juglares\" of Vallenato. They are freestyle competitions where the participating \"juglares\" battle over who has the better accordion-playing skills, as well as who can freestyle sing better verses challenging and insulting the other. The concept of a \"piqueria\" is somewhat comparable to the \"rap battle\" of American hip hop culture, except for the added component of playing the accordion while delivering verses. The famous song, \"La Gota Fría\" (The Cold Sweat) is a good example of a \"piqueria vallenata\".\n\nLegend has it that Francisco travelled throughout Colombia, going from town to town participating in \"piquerias\", which he always emerged victorious from. One night, as he travelled, he pulled out his accordion and began playing some notes and singing to occupy himself as he walked. Suddenly, he realized that every tune he played was answered by a better one from afar. He spent several hours searching for his opponent in the darkness, to no avail. Suddenly, a ray of moonlight burst through the clouds and shone down on his adversary, revealing his identity: it was Satan himself. Upon revealing himself, the devil played a powerful song, so powerful that the light of the moon and stars were snuffed out, leaving his burning eyes as the only source of light in the night. Understanding that this would be his greatest battle, the \"juglar\" fell to his knees, looked up to heaven, signed the cross, and prayed the Apostles' Creed forwards and backwards. He then got up and played the most beautiful melody ever heard. The moon and stars returned to the sky. The devil let out an ear-piercing scream, and fled into the mountains, leaving Francisco as the winner of the duel, and bestowing upon him the moniker of \"el Hombre\" (the Man).\n\nThere is dispute over who (if anyone) the legend of Francisco el Hombre is based on, but it is generally accepted that it was either Francisco Moscote Guerra, or Francisco Rada Batista.\n\nFrancisco Moscote Guerra was a famous Vallenato player from the town of Plato in the administrative department of Magdalena. He is mentioned in the novel One Hundred Years of Solitude as \"an old globe-trotter of almost 200 years who frequently passed by Macondo divulging the songs composed by himself\". The Colombian Ministry of Culture considers him the most probable candidate.\n\nFrancisco Rada Batista, also known as \"Pancho Rada,\" (1907-2003) is also proposed as the legendary figure. He was certainly a legendary Vallenato artist. He is credited with revolutionizing the genre throughout his life, and is also credited with inventing the Vallenato subgenre known as \"son\". the 2000 documentary film \"The Devil's Accordion\" asserts that he is the namesake of the legendary figure.\n\nRegardless of who his true identity may have been, his image has deeply permeated throughout Colombia. The world's largest Vallenato festival, held in the genre's birthplace of Valle Dupar is called \"Festival de la Leyenda Vallenata\" (Festival of the Vallanato Legend). Another large Colombian music Festival is simply called, Festival Francisco el Hombre. Many images, statues, and sculptures of him can also be found over the country.\n"}
{"id": "47313842", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47313842", "title": "Gary White (engineer)", "text": "Gary White (engineer)\n\nGary White is the CEO and co-founder of Water.org and WaterEquity. In 1990, he founded WaterPartners an American nonprofit developmental aid organization focused on universal access to safe drinking water and sanitation for people in developing countries. \nIn July 2009, WaterPartners merged with Matt Damon's H2O Africa Foundation to create Water.org. \nIn his work with Water.org, White was the architect of the WaterCredit initiative, a micro-finance program to assist with water and sanitation projects. White is the founder and CEO of WaterEquity, the social impact investing arm of Water.org.\n\nWhite is a founding member of the Global Water Challenge\n\n, the Millennium Water Alliance\n\n, and Chairman of the Steering Committee for WASH Advocates\n\nin 2009, White was named an adviser to the Clinton Global Initiative and in 2011, White and his co-founder Matt Damon were included in the TIME 100 list of the world's most influential people\n. He was the recipient of the 2012 World Social Impact Award from the World Policy Institute, was named one of the Schwab Foundation Social Entrepreneurs of 2012 and was named one of Missouri University of Science and Technology's 28 Alumni of Influence. In 2017, White was awarded the Forbes 400 Lifetime Achievement Award for Social Entrepreneurship.\n\nWhite earned a B.S. and M.S. in Civil Engineering from Missouri University of Science and Technology in 1985 and 1987, respectively,\n\n"}
{"id": "40181476", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40181476", "title": "George Contant", "text": "George Contant\n\nGeorge C. Contant, aka George Contant Sontag (April 10, 1864 - date of death unknown), was an outlaw of the American West known mostly for train robberies. Like his older brother, John Sontag, he was originally from Mankato, Minnesota.\n\nContant was the younger of two sons of Jacob Contant and the former Maria Bohn. After the death of their father in 1867, John Sontag took the surname of his stepfather, Matthias Sontag, his mother's second husband, a veteran of the Union Army during the American Civil War. George Contant however kept the original name though the two were usually called \"The Sontag Brothers\". The two were frequent partners in crime. After he stole cigars from an employer, George Contant was sent to reform school in St. Paul, Minnesota. After a subsequent conviction for theft, Contant was imprisoned at the Nebraska State Penitentiary in Lincoln. There is a marriage record of George Contant married to Therese Landgraff (1865-1898) on October 11, 1887 in La Crosse, Wisconsin; they had at least one child George Contant (1887-1896).\n\nWith his brother imprisoned in Nebraska, John Sontag came to Fresno, California, and began working for the Southern Pacific Transportation Company. After an industrial accident, he was employed near Visalia, California, by a farmer and livery stable operator, who soon became his partner in crime, Christopher \"Chris\" Evans.\n\nAfter Contant was released from prison in Lincoln, he joined his brother and Chris Evans on a trip to Minnesota, where on July 1, 1892, they attempted to rob a train while riding along the Minnesota River between St. Peter and Kasota. They acquired nothing of much value, but their crime aroused the concern of Pinkerton detectives. A month later, back in California, the trio robbed a train at Collis, now Kerman in Fresno County. This time, they acquired $500 and bags of Mexican and Peruvian coins of no apparent value. Several days after the robbery, law-enforcement officers arrested Contant in connection with the crime, but Sontag and Evans fled as fugitives. A nationally-publicized manhunt culminated in what is known as the Battle of Stone Corral.\n\nFound guilty of train robbery at Collis in October 1892, Contant was incarcerated for fifteen years at Folsom State Prison. The following June 1893, John Sontag died shortly after his 32nd birthday either of gunshot wounds sustained at the Battle of Stone Corral and/or tetanus while in custody in Fresno and is interred at Calvary Cemetery in Fresno. Chris Evans lost an eye and his left arm preceding his surrender. He too was sent to Folsom, where he remained for seventeen years . Evans was paroled in 1911 and died in 1917. George Contant tried to escape in 1893\n\nAfter his release from prison, George Contant wrote an autobiography, \"A Pardoned Lifer,\" in 1909 with Opie L. Warner as the ghostwriter. He spoke out against the danger of living outside the law. His many lecture appearances brought him to Milwaukee, Wisconsin, Minneapolis, and, in his hometown, the Mankato Opera House. <br>In 1912 Conant applied for a US Passport. On June 28, 1913 Conant married to Alice Brown Warbinton in San Francisco. About 1915, Contant produced a film, \"The Folly of a Life of Crime\". There are no remaining copies.\n\nAlice Conant died in 1928 George Contant's last whereabouts are unknown. He was listed in May 1929 in the obituary of his mother as a surviving son residing in San Francisco.\n"}
{"id": "34199452", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34199452", "title": "Gérard Errera", "text": "Gérard Errera\n\nGérard Paul Errera (born 30 October 1943) is a French diplomat and serves as an advisor to a number of American, Chinese and French international firms.\n\nGérard Errera comes from a Jewish family, and was born in Brive-la-Gaillarde, in what was, during World War II, France's Free Zone. The Erreras were hidden and saved by a French family during the German occupation under the Vichy regime. Right after the war, he moved to Paris where he completed his education, and graduated from two French elite institutions, L'Institut d'Etudes Politiques de Paris (Sciences Po), and the Ecole Nationale d'Administration (ENA).\n\nGérard Errera is the brother of Roger Errera (1933–2014), who was a member of the Conseil d'Etat, and director of the Diaspora series (Calmann-Lévy), and whose life and work is remembered through a website: www.rogererrera.fr. \n\nErrera is chairman of the Blackstone Group France, and member of Blackstone International Advisory Board. He is also the Senior Adviser for International Affairs to the French law firm August & Debouzy, and a member of International Advisory Council of Huawei, the leading global information and communications technology provider. In addition, Errera also serves on the advisory committee of the International Capital Conference (ICC), which is an annually held forum gathering China's top entrepreneurs, CEOs and officials with their European counterparts. Errera, a supporter of the arts, is also on the board of directors of the Musee des Arts decoratifs.\n\nErrera served as a member of the supervisory board of Orano (formerly AREVA), the global leader in nuclear energy (2007-2009) and a Director of Electricité de France (EDF, 2007-2009). He is a frequent contributor to the \"Financial Times\" and other international newspapers.\n\nErrera has spent the last two years before joining Blackstone as secretary general of the French Ministry of Foreign Affairs from 2007 to 2009. This is the highest-ranking position in the French Foreign service, and effectively oversaw the foreign policy and all French diplomatic missions, alongside the minister.\n\nDuring that time, Errera was appointed by the French president Sarkozy, as \"Ambassadeur de France\", a lifelong dignity, and the highest title a French career diplomat.\n\nPrior to this Errera was the French ambassador to the United Kingdom for five years, from 2002 to 2007. At a time when Franco-British relationships were particularly tense, Gerard Errera was especially appreciated by the British, being called by the press \"one of the wittiest and wisest diplomats in modern times, a worthy follower in the footsteps of Talleyrand\". Mr Errera was a fierce defender of the principled and moral view not to invade Iraq, and was characterised as a\"model of discretion, and master of the unspoken inference\".\n\nHe also served as the French ambassador to the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) and director general for political affairs. During that time, he was one of the architects of the St Malo Treaty in 1998, which was the founding moment of European defence\n\nHe was the French special representative of President Chirac for strategic dialogue with India during 1998–2002. Before that, Gerard Errera was director for international affairs at the French Atomic Energy Commission and governor for France at the International Atomic Energy Agency. From 1991 to 1995, he served as the French ambassador to the Conference on Disarmament in Geneva.\n\nErrera started his career at the French embassy in Washington, then was appointed as special adviser to the French foreign minister. He also served as the French general consul in San Francisco, at the time of the development of the Silicon Valley, and in Madrid from 1977 to 1980.\n\nHe is married to Virginia Bedoya Calvo, who is Bolivian-Argentinian. They have three children together: Philippe, Emmanuelle and Alexandre. His eldest son, Philippe, is also a diplomat.\n\n"}
{"id": "32347824", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32347824", "title": "Hussein Salem", "text": "Hussein Salem\n\nHussein Salem (; born 11 November 1933) is an Egyptian-Spanish businessman, co-owner of the East Mediterranean Gas Company (EMG), and ally and advisor to former president Hosni Mubarak. He is also the chairman and CEO of HKS Group, a hospitality company that operates Maritim Jolie Ville Resort in Sharm El Sheikh. He has been described as \"one of the most secretive businessmen in Egypt\", a mogul, and Mubarak's close confidant. He was known as the \"Father of Sharm El Sheikh\" due to his resort development activities.\n\nSalem was born on 11 November 1933 in Sinai Peninsula, Egypt. Records of the Egyptian Administrative Control Authority indicate, however, that he was born in the Helwan suburb of Cairo, although \"al-Ahram Weekly\" states the latter location was actually Salem's father's birthplace. His father, Kamal el-Din, worked as a school teacher, but died of typhoid during Salem's childhood. Afterward, his family moved to an apartment in the Korba area of Cairo's Heliopolis district.\n\nHis mother, Hosnia Tabozoda, who was of Turkish origin, encountered great difficulty providing for her children with her late husband's pension, forcing Salem, the eldest of his two siblings to become the family's main provider. He also had five half-siblings from his father's first wife (Hosnia was his second wife,) but was not responsible for them, most of whom were older than Salem. Although it has not been proven, he allegedly has Bedouin origins. Some sources say this was a rumor Salem allegedly spread in order to help him secure future business deals with the Bedouin tribes of the southern Sinai Peninsula. The only known relation Salem had with the Bedouin was through marriage; his half-sibling Samiha married into the Abaydah tribe of Ismailia and Sinai.\n\nDuring his childhood, Salem's sustained an eye injury, disallowing him from entering the mandatory military service. He graduated from the Heliopolis Public High School, but had to repeat his senior year. In 1956, he graduated from Cairo University's Faculty of Commerce. Shortly after receiving his degree, one of Salem's relatives secured a job for him as a clerk in the Textile Support Fund, which then-president Gamal Abdel Nasser had established to alleviate high unemployment rates, particularly among the youth. Later in 1956, Nasser nationalized the Suez Canal Company, prompting a tripartite assault on Egypt by the United Kingdom, France and Israel. Although Salem favored open markets, there has been no indication that he opposed the canal's nationalization, although he resented Nasser's decision to nationalize the holdings of top capitalists in Egypt in 1961.\n\nIn 1959, he married Nazimah Abdel-Hamid Ismail and the couple moved into a three-bedroom apartment in the Golf area of Heliopolis. The monthly rent was nine pounds (Salem's monthly salary was 18 pounds.) The couple's first child, Khaled, was born in 1961, followed by the birth of their daughter, Magda, two years later. According to one of his neighbors at the time, Salem did not own a car or many luxuries for most of the 1960s and early 1970s. He enrolled Khaled into Saint George, a private British school in Heliopolis, an education that Salem had to frequently borrow money to pay for.\n\nDuring the early 1960s Salem had landed a job as the branch director for the Arab Company for External Trade in Casablanca, Morocco which paid 43 pounds per month. A former CEO at the company—which was allegedly a front for the Egyptian Intelligence Services—remembered Salem as a very private employee who traveled abroad often. The CEO believes Salem was supervising arms deals to help nationalist struggles against European colonialism in North Africa, in line with Nasser's foreign policy at the time.\n\nIn Casablanca Salem befriended Amin Howeidi who served as Egypt's ambassador to Morocco at the time. That same year, 1963, Howeidi was appointed ambassador to Iraq and he brought Salem with him to serve as the Arab Company's branch director in Baghdad. Salem began cultivating relationships with the high-ranking staff of the Egyptian embassy in Iraq, particularly Amin Yousri the embassy's press-attache and Ibrahim Yousri the embassy's second secretary. \"Al-Ahram Weekly\" editor Karem Yehia states that the Yousris claim Salem was a \"likable\" person, but not \"intellectually sophisticated\". Howeidi mentored Salem on international politics by enrolling him in study groups particularly after Howeidi was appointed by then-President Gamal Abdel Nasser to the post of Intelligence Director in 1967 following Egypt's defeat in the Six-Day War with Israel.\n\nAccording to Ibrahim Yousri, Salem gained Howeidi's trust primarily because he was able to regularly provide Howeidi with useful intelligence due to his connections with business circles in Iraq which would have otherwise been difficult to attain through the Egyptian embassy. Amin Yousri claims Salem cultivated good relationships with other Egyptian embassy employees by helping them buy Mercedes vehicles at low interest rates offered by the Iraqi Central Bank. Despite his relative success in Baghdad, Salem did not find his work there as particularly fulfilling and requested Howeidi a number of times for transfer to Europe where he said he had \"friends\" who could help him start a private business. Instead, Salem was sent on ambassadorial missions to Arab States of the Persian Gulf. There he succeeded in establishing his own personal networks that would later become useful during his future business ventures in those states.\n\nRelations between Howeidi and Salem deteriorated following Nasser's death in 1970 and the succession of Anwar Sadat to the presidency afterward. Howeidi, an ardent supporter and symbol of Nasser's socialist and nationalist struggles, was imprisoned by Sadat in 1971; Salem, uninterested in Nasser's ideals subsequently abandoned Howeidi, did not visit him in prison and ignored his wife's phone calls. Nonetheless, Salem lost his job in the Intelligence Directorate along with its perks. His half-brother Abdel Hamid later managed to secure Salem a job at Nasr Import and Export Company that same year by petitioning a senior official in Sadat's administration.\n\nUnhappy at the loss of the prestige and perks of his former intelligence job, Salem decided to move to Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates (UAE) in 1972 where he became CEO of the Arab Emirates Trade Company, an importer of food supplies for UAE. He was set up there by former Egyptian economy minister Hassan Abbas Zaki, an economic adviser to the president of the UAE, Sheikh Zayed, at the time. Using his position, between 1972 and 1977 Salem reportedly developed extensive business relations in several Western countries, as well as India and Pakistan. Through these contacts, he gained considerable wealth and began transferring large amounts of cash to Switzerland where he also purchased a number of hotels.\n\nStarting in 1977 Salem's financial situation began to improve considerably. Following then-Egyptian President Anwar Sadat's visit to Israel on 19 November 1977, the UAE downgraded relations with Egypt. Salem had still managed to maintain good relations with Emirati officials, but nonetheless left the UAE that same year. The primary reason behind Salem's departure was not linked to the political situation between the two countries, however. Instead he was said to have been forced out by some Emirati business families who claimed Salem's operations hurt them financially. According to Yehia, some sources say Salem fled hours before his company's headquarters were raided by auditing officials while other sources claim he was actually arrested and spent a number of days in an Emirati jail. Sayed Ali al-Shorafa, Grand High Chamberlain (Director)of the UAE's President's Court, Stated Salem was not charged with a crime and was subsequently pardoned by Sheikh Zayed. He also denied rumors that Salem had amassed $20 million in Abu Dhabi, stating \"These are exaggerations ... We did not have anyone in the Emirates who had more than a million Dirhams at that time.\" Contrarily, Amin Yousri claimed that Salem had directly informed him that he acquired $200 million in the UAE which he transferred to his Swiss bank accounts. He would later relocate half of his money to Spain, according to Yousri, where he gained Spanish citizenship and bought a mansion in Majorca.\n\nSalem returned to Egypt following his business ventures in the UAE. In addition to his history with the Egyptian government, he had established relations with highly influential figures in Egypt by appointing their sons or relatives to positions in his company in the UAE. In late 1977, not long after arriving in Egypt, he met Hosni Mubarak whom Sadat appointed Vice President in 1975. It was only in 1977 that things began to shape up for Salem. After returning to Egypt from a short assignment in the United Arab Emirates, he moved with his family from his Golf area apartment into a new unit in an apartment building he constructed in Saba Emarat area of Heliopolis. For two years Salem lived in his old apartment in Cairo's affluent Heliopolis neighborhood. Although he was a millionaire by then, he took a job as an employee of the economy ministry, tasked with managing commercial deals. He reportedly kept his other business ventures private while working in the government. In 1979, Prime Minister Mustafa Khalil appointed him Commissioned Minister of Trade at the Egyptian embassy in Washington, D.C..\n\nThat same year, Salem became CEO of the Egyptian American Transportation Company (ETSCO), established in Delaware with a branch in Cairo. On 9 October 1982, an article was published by \"The Washington Post\" entailing violations the company committed regarding various arms deals following the singing of the Camp David Accords in 1979. The arms deals involved using money from the Persian Gulf states to fund Mujahideen efforts against the Soviet occupation of Afghanistan and dictatorships in Latin America. Kamal Hassan Ali, the Egyptian minister of foreign affairs at the time, vehemently denied the allegations against ETSCO, calling them \"wicked\". He claimed the Egyptian government found no evidence of foul play on the part of the company during its year-long investigation of the incident. Ali went on to threaten to sue \"anyone who dares to smear his name or any other Egyptian official\" in American courts.\n\nABC News ran a televised documentary in early March 2011 about what it described as corruption that was built in the Camp David Accords and American military aid to Egypt. The network highlighted what it called the role of Hosni Mubarak, Mounir Thabet (Suzanne Mubarak's brother) and the late Field Marshal Abu-Ghazalah in ETSCO’s illegal ventures. The aforementioned men received millions of dollars by maintaining an operation filled with illegal commissions, bribes and bidding violations. Salem paid an $8 million fine to The Pentagon in 1984 to settle the case. However, Amin Yousri would later discover through a memo sent from the Egyptian embassy to the Foreign Ministry in Cairo that Salem actually paid the Pentagon a much larger figure than was publicly announced. The memo mentioned that Salem's lawyers reached a $60 million settlement with the US government. A former partner in ETSCO who was also a CIA agent, Edwin Wilson, told ABC that Salem was a \"front man\" for Mubarak. According to anonymous employees\n\nSadat was assassinated in 1981 and was succeeded, later that year, by his vice president Hosni Mubarak who Salem had befriended and worked with in previous years. By 1987, the southern Sinai Peninsula experienced a boom in real estate investment, particularly in Sharm al-Sheikh. That year, Salem had commissioned the construction of a very large hotel called the Jolie Ville in that city. Suspicions were raised on Salem's acquisitions of property in Sinai since it was notably difficult for locals to acquire small parcels of land there and Salem had little background in construction. High-ranking officials, including Abdel Moneim Said, the governor-general of South Sinai, and Hamid Khodeir, a local council member of the nearby city of el-Tor, claim Salem gained contracts for the land along the southern Sinai coast due to his close friendships with Mubarak and his son Gamal. From 1987 until the early 21st-century, Salem had established tourism empire in Sinai, owning several hotels. Major expansions to his business operations in Sinai included a mass conference hall, a golf course, a luxurious mosque for Mubarak's personal use, and numerous palaces, one of which he sold to Mubarak. In 1997, the Jolie Ville hosted a large conference sponsoring peace in the Middle East related to the Arab–Israeli conflict.\n\nThe local Bedouins who lived along the southern Sinai coast privately criticized Salem for ignoring their community by not building any projects in the local areas. Members of the el-Tor local council complained that his operations further marginalized the Bedouins by not contributing to their welfare, increasing their sense of marginalization. Abdel-Moneim Said agreed, stating \"Salem did not contribute anything that benefited ordinary people in the governorate.\" In 2002, Said claimed that after the local government constructed a strip-like \"Walk\" adjacent to the Jolie Ville Hotel intended for locals to open business along, Mubarak ordered the governor to hand it over to Salem.\n\nIn 1993, following the 1993 Oslo Agreements between the Israelis and Palestinians which Mubarak helped broker, Israel and Egypt began work on a gas pipeline to supply the former with natural gas and to build a petroleum refinery in Sinai, the first privately owned refinery in the Arab Middle East. Mubarak awarded Salem licenses to work on both projects. Salem's relations with Israeli business circles dates back to the 1970s during his tenure at the Washington D.C. embassy, including when the Israelis and Egyptians were negotiating Camp David. In 1996, Salem sold most of his shares in the new refinery company, Midor, and made a substantial profit. In 2007, he sold most of his shares in the East Mediterranean Gas Company, a year before the pipeline actually pumped any gas. According to \"The New York Times\", Israel gained 40% of its gas needs from below-market price Egyptian gas exports. The Israeli newspaper \"Yediot Aharonoth\" described Salem as the \"number one man\" of the normalization process between the two states.\n\nSalem fled Egypt on 3 February 2011 during the Egyptian Revolution of 2011 to Spain, a country in which he holds dual citizenship.<ref name=\"NYT 6/2011\"></ref> A warrant for his arrest was issued by Interpol in May 2011. He was later arrested at his home in La Moraleja, Madrid, Spain on 14 June by Spanish authorities on separate Spanish charges. Salem was accused by Egyptian authorities of corruption on charges he illegally gained public funds by obtaining a monopoly on the sale of gas to Israel, and as a result, squandering $714 million in public funds (independent experts believe the amount squandered is much higher) by selling Egyptian natural gas to Israel at below market prices. Additionally, Egyptian investigators alleged that Salem was permitted by former President Mubarak to buy a large piece of valuable land on the Red Sea coast for development from the Egyptian government at a large discount. In exchange, prosecutors allege that Salem gave Mubarak and his family five luxury villas worth about $4.5 million, including a 161,000-square-foot seaside estate in Sharm el-Sheikh. Following his arrest, Spanish judges set his bail at €27 million (approximately $33 million), €12 million for the Spanish charges and €15 million for the Egyptian charges.<ref name=\"BBC 03/2012\"></ref>\n\nSalem's trial on the charges related to his sale of gas to Israel at deflated prices began in Egypt on 3 August 2011 in absentia. In March 2012, the Spanish National Court ruled that Salem and his son Khaled Salem should be extradited to Egypt to face charges. The Spanish authorities had already frozen $47 million in his accounts and seized homes he owned worth $14 million, including seven in the resort of Marbella. Spain demanded assurances from Egyptian authorities that in exchange for the defendants extradition the two would be heard in front of new juries than the ones currently in trial since the previous August and that the men would have the choice to return to Spain to serve their sentences.<ref name=\"NYT 03/2012\"></ref> Then in June 2012, the Cairo Criminal Court found Salem, in absentia, and former Petroleum Minister Sameh Fahmi guilty and sentenced them each to 15 years in prison.<ref name=\"EI 11/2014\"></ref>\n\nHowever, Salem still resides in Spain due to the Spanish authorities refusal to extradite him.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57774347", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57774347", "title": "Jadon and Anias McDonald", "text": "Jadon and Anias McDonald\n\nJadon and Anias McDonald are a pair of formerly conjoined craniopagus twins. They were separated in a nearly 30 hour surgery on October 14, 2016 at Children's Hospital at Montefiore when they were thirteen months old.\n\nLess than a year after they were separated, they returned home to their house in New York's Orange County to live with parents, Nicole and Chrisitian, and older brother, Aza. Before they were separated, the boys and family lived in the Bronx but they purchased the home in foreclosure while the boys were in rehab at Blythedale Children's Hospital. At home, they will have 20 hours a week of in-home therapy. \n"}
{"id": "584551", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=584551", "title": "Jerry Orbach", "text": "Jerry Orbach\n\nJerome Bernard Orbach (October 20, 1935 – December 28, 2004) was an American actor and singer, described at the time of his death as \"one of the last\" bona fide\" leading men of the Broadway musical and global celebrity on television\" and a \"versatile stage and film actor\".\n\nOrbach's professional career began on the New York stage, both on and off-Broadway, where he created roles such as El Gallo in the original off-Broadway run of \"The Fantasticks\" (1960) and became the first performer to sing that show's standard \"Try To Remember\"; Billy Flynn in the original \"Chicago\" (1975–1977), and Julian Marsh in the original \"42nd Street\" (1980–1985). Nominated for multiple Tony Awards, Orbach won for his performance as Chuck Baxter in \"Promises, Promises\" (1968–1972).\n\nLater in his career, Orbach played supporting roles in films such as \"Prince of the City\" (1981), \"Dirty Dancing\" (1987), \"Crimes and Misdemeanors\" (1989) and Disney's \"Beauty and the Beast\" (1991). He also made frequent guest appearances on television, including a recurring role on \"Murder, She Wrote\" (1985–1991) as private detective Harry McGraw. However, he gained worldwide fame for his starring role as NYPD Detective Lennie Briscoe on the long-running NBC crime drama \"Law & Order\" (1992–2004).\n\nOrbach was born on October 20, 1935, in the Bronx, the only child of Emily (née Olexy), a greeting card manufacturer and radio singer, and Leon Orbach, a restaurant manager and vaudeville performer. His father was a Jewish emigrant from Hamburg, Germany. Orbach stated that his father was descended from Sephardic refugees from the Spanish Inquisition. His mother, a native of Luzerne County, Pennsylvania, was a Roman Catholic of Polish-Lithuanian descent, and Orbach was raised in her faith (a religious background later replicated in his character on \"Law & Order\"). Throughout his childhood, the Orbach family moved frequently, living in Mount Vernon, New York; Wilkes-Barre, Nanticoke, and Scranton, Pennsylvania; Springfield, Massachusetts; and Waukegan, Illinois. Orbach attended Waukegan High School in Illinois and graduated in 1952 (having skipped two grades in elementary school due to his high IQ). He played on the football team and began learning acting in a speech class. The summer after graduating from high school, Orbach worked at the theatre of Chevy Chase Country Club of Wheeling, Illinois, and enrolled at the University of Illinois at Urbana–Champaign in the fall. In 1953, Orbach returned to the Chicago area and enrolled at Northwestern University. Orbach left Northwestern before his senior year and moved to New York City in 1955 to pursue acting and to study at the Actors Studio, where one of his instructors was the studio's founder, Lee Strasberg.\n\nOrbach was an accomplished Broadway and off-Broadway actor. His first major role was El Gallo in the original 1960 cast of the decades-running hit \"The Fantasticks,\" and Orbach became the first to perform the show's signature song and pop standard \"Try To Remember\". He also starred in \"The Threepenny Opera\", \"Carnival!\", the musical version of the movie \"Lili\" (his Broadway debut), in a revival of \"Guys and Dolls\" (as Sky Masterson, receiving a Tony Award nomination for Best Featured Actor in a Musical), \"Promises, Promises\" (as Chuck Baxter, winning a Tony Award for Best Actor in a Musical), the original productions of \"Chicago\" (as Billy Flynn, receiving another Tony Award nomination), \"42nd Street\", and a revival of \"The Cradle Will Rock\". Orbach made occasional film and TV appearances into the 1970s and appeared as a celebrity panelist on both \"What's My Line?\" and \"Super Password\".\n\nIn the 1980s, Orbach shifted to film and TV work full-time. Prominent roles included a superb performance as tough, effective, but \"allegedly corrupt\" NYPD narcotics detective Gus Levy in Sidney Lumet's \"Prince of the City\"; he was the 1981 runner-up for the NSFC Best Supporting Actor award. He also portrayed gangsters in both the action-thriller \"F/X\" and the Woody Allen drama \"Crimes and Misdemeanors\" (the latter of which also featured his future \"Law & Order\" co-star Sam Waterston). In 1985, Orbach became a regular guest star on \"Murder, She Wrote\" as private detective Harry McGraw, which led to him starring in the short-lived spin-off series \"The Law & Harry McGraw\". In 1987, he was featured in the hit film \"Dirty Dancing\" as Dr. Jake Houseman, the father of Jennifer Grey's character \"Baby\". He made further TV appearances on popular shows such as \"The Golden Girls\" (for which he received his first Emmy nomination), \"Who's the Boss?\", and \"Frasier\" (as a guest caller).\nIn 1991, Orbach starred in Disney's Academy Award-winning animated musical \"Beauty and the Beast\", as the voice (both singing and speaking) of the French-accented candelabrum Lumière, which according to Orbach, he played \"halfway between Maurice Chevalier and Pepé Le Pew\". At the 64th Academy Awards, Orbach performed a live-action stage rendition of the Oscar-nominated song, \"Be Our Guest\", that he sang in \"Beauty and the Beast\". He later reprised his voice role of Lumière for the film's direct-to-video sequels, multiple episodes of \"Disney's House of Mouse\", and the previously-deleted song (\"Human Again\") that was added to the \"Beauty and the Beast\" 2002 IMAX re-release. In 1992, Orbach joined the main ensemble cast of \"Law & Order\" as the world-weary, wisecracking, streetwise NYPD homicide detective Lennie Briscoe. He had previously guest-starred as a defense attorney on the series, and was subsequently cast as the new \"senior detective\" following Paul Sorvino's departure. Orbach's portrayal of Detective Briscoe was based on his similar role from \"Prince of the City\" years before, which \"Law & Order\" creator Dick Wolf had personally suggested to him at the time of his casting.\n\nOrbach starred on \"Law & Order\" for 12 years, ultimately becoming the third longest-serving main cast member (behind S. Epatha Merkerson and Sam Waterston) in the show's 20-year-run history, as well as one of its most popular. During Orbach's tenure on \"Law & Order\", the series won the 1997 Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Drama Series among other accolades, made multiple crossover episodes with fellow NBC series \"\", and spawned a franchise that included the TV film \"\", the spin-off series \"\" and \"\" (both of which featured Orbach in guest appearances), and three video games. Orbach himself was nominated for a 2000 Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Lead Actor in a Drama Series (losing to James Gandolfini for \"The Sopranos\"). \"TV Guide\" named Lennie Briscoe one of their top-25 greatest television detectives of all time. Also during his time on \"Law & Order\", Orbach co-starred with Al Pacino in the independent film \"Chinese Coffee\", which was filmed in the summer of 1997 and released three years later.\n\nOrbach was married in 1958 to Marta Curro, with whom he had two sons, Anthony Nicholas and Christopher Benjamin; they divorced in 1975. Elder son Tony is a crossword puzzle constructor for \"The New York Times\" and also guest starred in the \"Law & Order\" episode \"Doubles\" as a reporter. Younger son Chris Orbach, who is an actor and singer, played Lennie Briscoe's nephew Ken Briscoe during the first season of \"Special Victims Unit\". In 1979, Jerry Orbach married Broadway dancer Elaine Cancilla, whom he met while starring in \"Chicago\".\n\nOrbach lived in a high-rise on 53rd Street off Eighth Avenue in Hell's Kitchen and was a fixture in that neighborhood's restaurants and shops. His glossy publicity photo hangs in Ms. Buffy's French Cleaners, and he was a regular at some of the Italian restaurants nearby. As of 2007, the intersection of 8th Avenue and 53rd Street was renamed in honor of Orbach. The plans met with some resistance by local planning boards, but were overcome thanks to his popularity and his love of the Big Apple.\n\nIn January 1994, less than two years into his stint on \"Law & Order\", Orbach was diagnosed with prostate cancer. He initially received radiation therapy as treatment, but by December 1994, the cancer had returned and metastasized. At that point, he went on hormone therapy, on which he remained over the next decade until the treatment ran out in March 2004. Following his departure from \"Law & Order\" that year, Orbach went through chemotherapy, but he ultimately succumbed to his cancer on December 28, 2004, at the Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in New York at age 69. Despite being diagnosed with the cancer more than a decade before his death, Orbach's illness was not revealed to the general public until just weeks before he died. Prior to his death, Orbach was signed to continue in the role of Lennie Briscoe on the new spin-off \"\", which was to accommodate his illness by giving him a lighter schedule than he had had on the original series, but he was only featured in the first two episodes, both of which aired following his death.\n\nThe day after Orbach's death, the marquees on Broadway were dimmed in mourning, one of the highest honors of the American theatre world, while NBC re-aired the \"Law & Order\" episode \"C.O.D.\" (the last episode of the original series to feature Orbach) in honor of him. The \"Criminal Intent\" episode \"View from Up Here\" and the \"Trial by Jury\" episode \"Baby Boom\" were dedicated to Orbach, and the \"Law & Order\" episode \"Mammon\" featured a pictorial memorial of him.\n\nIn addition to his sons, wife, and former wife, Orbach was survived by his mother and two grandchildren, Peter and Sarah Kate Orbach, children of his older son Tony. His mother died on July 28, 2012, at the age of 101. His wife Elaine died in 2009 at age 69, and his former wife Marta died in 2012 at age 79. Having had perfect 20/20 vision his whole life, Jerry Orbach requested that his eyes be donated after his death. His wish was granted when two individuals – one who needed correction for a nearsighted eye and another who needed correction for a farsighted eye – received Orbach's corneas. His likeness has been used in an ad campaign for Eye Bank for Sight Restoration in Manhattan. The interment of his remains was at Trinity Church Cemetery.\n\nIn addition to his Tony Award and nominations, Jerry Orbach is also a member of the American Theater Hall of Fame, having been inducted in 1999. In 2002, Orbach was named a \"Living Landmark\" by the New York Landmarks Conservancy, along with his \"Law & Order\" co-star Sam Waterston. Orbach quipped that the honor meant \"that they can't tear me down.\"\n\nOn February 5, 2005, he was posthumously awarded a Screen Actors Guild Award for Outstanding Performance by a Male Actor in a Drama Series for his longtime role on \"Law & Order\". His wife Elaine accepted the award on his behalf.\n\nOn September 18, 2007, a portion of New York City's 53rd Street near Eighth Avenue was renamed 'Jerry Orbach Way' in his honor.\n\nAlso in 2007, the Jerry Orbach Theatre was named for him in the Snapple Theater Center at 50th Street and Broadway in New York City. The naming occurred as a tribute to him during a revival of \"The Fantasticks\" at the theatre.\n\nAfter \"Law & Order\" was cancelled in 2010, executive producer René Balcer was quoted by \"The Wall Street Journal\": \"I always think about the show as before Jerry and after Jerry... You saw the weariness of 25 years of crime-fighting in New York written on his face.\"\n\nAuthor Kurt Vonnegut was a fan of Orbach, and during an Australian radio interview in 2005, he said, \"People have asked me, you know, 'Who would you rather be, than yourself?',\" and he replied \"Jerry Orbach, without a question... I talked to him one time, and he's adorable.\"\n\n\"New York Times\" writers Ben Brantley and Richard Servero analyzed the breadth and scope of Orbach's career:\n\nWhether singing \"Try to Remember\" as the dashing narrator of \"The Fantasticks\" in 1960 or trading barbs with fellow detectives and reluctant witnesses on television in recent years, Mr. Orbach exuded a wry, ragged masculinity that was all his own. As a star of musicals, he created a new kind of hero who was leagues away from suave, swaggering Adonises like John Raitt, Howard Keel, and Alfred Drake... And he flourished at a time when the Broadway musical hero was fast becoming an endangered species... His rough-edged individuality may account for his endurance on the Broadway stage in an era when other promising musical actors - including Larry Kert, Robert Goulet, and Robert Morse - proved unable to follow through on their breakthrough successes. Mr. Orbach may have been the last of a breed: no male star since has matched the breadth and continuity of his career in musicals... It wasn't until the 1990s, when he started appearing as Lennie Briscoe in \"Law & Order,\" that Mr. Orbach became a familiar name throughout the country. The rough edge that distinguished him on Broadway eased his transition to character roles like Briscoe, the recovered alcoholic who seemed to greet the discovery of each episode's crime with a world-weary shrug.\n\n\"Dirty Dancing\" co-star Patrick Swayze memorialized Orbach after his death:\n\nJerry Orbach has been one of the most successful actors who ever lived to make that transition from musical theatre into real, organic, break-your-heart kinds of reality in his work as a film actor, but transition back and forth seamlessly... it was a very interesting time for me, when I was shooting \"Dirty Dancing\", I think probably the eyes I trusted if I was real, and it worked, and I had nailed it, [were] Jerry Orbach's eyes. I would go over to him and under my breath \"What did you think?\" and he goes \"No, go there further, I think there's more you can get.\" He would say little things like \"courage\", and it gives me goosebumps to say that. I really, really respected that man. I watched his career from the time I was little. I think it was a great loss when he passed.\n\nHis love poems to his wife Elaine were published in \"Remember How I Love You: Love Letters from an Extraordinary Marriage\" (Touchstone, 2009). Another biography, \"Jerry Orbach, Prince of the City: His Way from the Fantasticks to Law & Order\" by John Anthony Gilvey, was published on May 1, 2011.\n\nIn 1963, Orbach released an album with MGM Records titled \"Jerry Orbach: Off Broadway\", which included works from musicals such as \"The Fantasticks\" and \"The Threepenny Opera\". The album was reissued in 2000 by Decca Records for its \"Stars on Decca Broadway\" series.\n\n"}
{"id": "15825", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15825", "title": "John Steinbeck", "text": "John Steinbeck\n\nJohn Ernst Steinbeck Jr. (; February 27, 1902 – December 20, 1968) was an American author. He won the 1962 Nobel Prize in Literature \"for his realistic and imaginative writings, combining as they do sympathetic humour and keen social perception.\" He has been called \"a giant of American letters,\" and many of his works are considered classics of Western literature.\n\nDuring his writing career, he authored 27 books, including 16 novels, six non-fiction books, and two collections of short stories. He is widely known for the comic novels \"Tortilla Flat\" (1935) and \"Cannery Row\" (1945), the multi-generation epic \"East of Eden\" (1952), and the novellas \"Of Mice and Men\" (1937) and \"The Red Pony\" (1937). The Pulitzer Prize-winning \"The Grapes of Wrath\" (1939) is considered Steinbeck's masterpiece and part of the American literary canon. In the first 75 years after it was published, it sold 14 million copies.\n\nMost of Steinbeck's work is set in central California, particularly in the Salinas Valley and the California Coast Ranges region. His works frequently explored the themes of fate and injustice, especially as applied to downtrodden or everyman protagonists.\n\nSteinbeck was born on February 27, 1902, in Salinas, California. He was of German, English, and Irish descent. Johann Adolf Großsteinbeck (1828–1913), Steinbeck's paternal grandfather, shortened the family name to Steinbeck when he immigrated to the United States. The family farm in Heiligenhaus, Mettmann, North Rhine-Westphalia, Germany, is still named \"Großsteinbeck.\"\n\nHis father, John Ernst Steinbeck (1862–1935), served as Monterey County treasurer. John's mother, Olive Hamilton (1867–1934), a former school teacher, shared Steinbeck's passion for reading and writing. The Steinbecks were members of the Episcopal Church, although Steinbeck later became agnostic. Steinbeck lived in a small rural town, no more than a frontier settlement, set in some of the world's most fertile land. He spent his summers working on nearby ranches and later with migrant workers on Spreckels sugar beet farms. There he learned of the harsher aspects of the migrant life and the darker side of human nature, which supplied him with material expressed in such works as \"Of Mice and Men\". He explored his surroundings, walking across local forests, fields, and farms. While working at Spreckels Sugar Company, he sometimes worked in their laboratory, which gave him time to write. He had considerable mechanical aptitude and fondness for repairing things he owned.\nSteinbeck graduated from Salinas High School in 1919 and went on to study English Literature at Stanford University near Palo Alto, leaving without a degree in 1925. He traveled to New York City where he took odd jobs while trying to write. When he failed to publish his work, he returned to California and worked in 1928 as a tour guide and caretaker at Lake Tahoe, where he met Carol Henning, his first wife. They married in January 1930 in Los Angeles, where, with friends, he attempted to make money by manufacturing plaster mannequins.\n\nWhen their money ran out six months later due to a slow market, Steinbeck and Carol moved back to Pacific Grove, California, to a cottage owned by his father, on the Monterey Peninsula a few blocks outside the Monterey city limits. The elder Steinbecks gave John free housing, paper for his manuscripts, and from 1928, loans that allowed him to write without looking for work. During the Great Depression, Steinbeck bought a small boat, and later claimed that he was able to live on the fish and crab that he gathered from the sea, and fresh vegetables from his garden and local farms. When those sources failed, Steinbeck and his wife accepted welfare, and on rare occasions, stole bacon from the local produce market. Whatever food they had, they shared with their friends. Carol became the model for Mary Talbot in Steinbeck's novel \"Cannery Row\".\n\nIn 1930, Steinbeck met the marine biologist Ed Ricketts, who became a close friend and mentor to Steinbeck during the following decade, teaching him a great deal about philosophy and biology. Ricketts, usually very quiet, yet likable, with an inner self-sufficiency and an encyclopedic knowledge of diverse subjects, became a focus of Steinbeck's attention. Ricketts had taken a college class from Warder Clyde Allee, a biologist and ecological theorist, who would go on to write a classic early textbook on ecology. Ricketts became a proponent of ecological thinking, in which man was only one part of a great chain of being, caught in a web of life too large for him to control or understand. Meanwhile, Ricketts operated a biological lab on the coast of Monterey, selling biological samples of small animals, fish, rays, starfish, turtles, and other marine forms to schools and colleges.\n\nBetween 1930 and 1936, Steinbeck and Ricketts became close friends. Steinbeck's wife began working at the lab as secretary-bookkeeper. Steinbeck helped on an informal basis. They formed a common bond based on their love of music and art, and John learned biology and Ricketts' ecological philosophy. When Steinbeck became emotionally upset, Ricketts sometimes played music for him.\n\nSteinbeck's first novel, \"\", published in 1929, is loosely based on the life and death of privateer Henry Morgan. It centers on Morgan's assault and sacking of the city of Panama, sometimes referred to as the 'Cup of Gold', and on the women, fairer than the sun, who were said to be found there.\n\nBetween 1930 and 1933, Steinbeck produced three shorter works. \"The Pastures of Heaven\", published in 1932, consists of twelve interconnected stories about a valley near Monterey, which was discovered by a Spanish corporal while chasing runaway Indian slaves. In 1933 Steinbeck published \"The Red Pony\", a 100-page, four-chapter story weaving in memories of Steinbeck's childhood. \"To a God Unknown\", named after a Vedic hymn, follows the life of a homesteader and his family in California, depicting a character with a primal and pagan worship of the land he works. Although he had not achieved the status of a well-known writer, he never doubted that he would achieve greatness.\n\nSteinbeck achieved his first critical success with \"Tortilla Flat\" (1935), a novel set in post-war Monterey, California, that won the California Commonwealth Club's Gold Medal. It portrays the adventures of a group of classless and usually homeless young men in Monterey after World War I, just before U.S. prohibition. They are portrayed in ironic comparison to mythic knights on a quest and reject nearly all the standard mores of American society in enjoyment of a dissolute life devoted to wine, lust, camaraderie and petty theft. In presenting the 1962 Nobel Prize to Steinbeck, the Swedish Academy cited \"spicy and comic tales about a gang of \"paisanos\", asocial individuals who, in their wild revels, are almost caricatures of King Arthur's Knights of the Round Table. It has been said that in the United States this book came as a welcome antidote to the gloom of the then prevailing depression.\"\n\"Tortilla Flat\" was adapted as a 1942 film of the same name, starring Spencer Tracy, Hedy Lamarr and John Garfield, a friend of Steinbeck. With some of the proceeds, he built a summer ranch-home in Los Gatos.\n\nSteinbeck began to write a series of \"California novels\" and Dust Bowl fiction, set among common people during the Great Depression. These included \"In Dubious Battle\", \"Of Mice and Men\" and \"The Grapes of Wrath\". He also wrote an article series called \"The Harvest Gypsies\" for the \"San Francisco News\" about the plight of the migrant worker.\n\n\"Of Mice and Men\" was a drama about the dreams of two migrant agricultural laborers in California. It was critically acclaimed and Steinbeck's 1962 Nobel Prize citation called it a \"little masterpiece\".\nIts stage production was a hit, starring Wallace Ford as George and Broderick Crawford as George's companion, the mentally childlike, but physically powerful itinerant farmhand Lennie. Steinbeck refused to travel from his home in California to attend any performance of the play during its New York run, telling director George S. Kaufman that the play as it existed in his own mind was \"perfect\" and that anything presented on stage would only be a disappointment. Steinbeck wrote two more stage plays (\"The Moon Is Down\" and \"Burning Bright\").\n\n\"Of Mice and Men\" was also adapted as a 1939 Hollywood film, with Lon Chaney, Jr. as Lennie (he had filled the role in the Los Angeles stage production) and Burgess Meredith as George. Meredith and Steinbeck became close friends for the next two decades. Another film based on the novella was made in 1992 starring Gary Sinise as George and John Malkovich as Lennie.\n\nSteinbeck followed this wave of success with \"The Grapes of Wrath\" (1939), based on newspaper articles about migrant agricultural workers that he had written in San Francisco. It is commonly considered his greatest work. According to \"The New York Times\", it was the best-selling book of 1939 and 430,000 copies had been printed by February 1940. In that month, it won the National Book Award, favorite fiction book of 1939, voted by members of the American Booksellers Association. Later that year, it won the Pulitzer Prize for Fiction and was adapted as a film directed by John Ford, starring Henry Fonda as Tom Joad; Fonda was nominated for the best actor Academy Award.\n\"Grapes\" was controversial. Steinbeck's New Deal political views, negative portrayal of aspects of capitalism, and sympathy for the plight of workers, led to a backlash against the author, especially close to home. Claiming the book was both obscene and misrepresented conditions in the county, the Kern County Board of Supervisors banned the book from the county's publicly funded schools and libraries in August 1939. This ban lasted until January 1941.\n\nOf the controversy, Steinbeck wrote, \"The vilification of me out here from the large landowners and bankers is pretty bad. The latest is a rumor started by them that the Okies hate me and have threatened to kill me for lying about them. I'm frightened at the rolling might of this damned thing. It is completely out of hand; I mean a kind of hysteria about the book is growing that is not healthy.\"\n\nThe film versions of \"The Grapes of Wrath\" and \"Of Mice and Men\" (by two different movie studios) were in production simultaneously, allowing Steinbeck to spend a full day on the set of \"The Grapes of Wrath\" and the next day on the set of \"Of Mice and Men.\"\n\nIn the 1930s and 1940s, Ed Ricketts strongly influenced Steinbeck's writing. Steinbeck frequently took small trips with Ricketts along the California coast to give himself time off from his writing and to collect biological specimens, which Ricketts sold for a living. Their joint book about a collecting expedition to the Gulf of California in 1940, which was part travelogue and part natural history, published just as the U.S. entered World War II, never found an audience and did not sell well. However, in 1951, Steinbeck republished the narrative portion of the book as \"The Log from the Sea of Cortez\", under his name only (though Ricketts had written some of it). This work remains in print today.\n\nAlthough Carol accompanied Steinbeck on the trip, their marriage was beginning to suffer, and ended a year later, in 1941, even as Steinbeck worked on the manuscript for the book. In 1942, after his divorce from Carol he married Gwyndolyn \"Gwyn\" Conger. With his second wife Steinbeck had two sons, Thomas (\"Thom\") Myles Steinbeck (1944–2016) and John Steinbeck IV (1946–1991).\n\nRicketts was Steinbeck's model for the character of \"Doc\" in \"Cannery Row\" (1945) and \"Sweet Thursday\" (1954), \"Friend Ed\" in \"Burning Bright\", and characters in \"In Dubious Battle\" (1936) and \"The Grapes of Wrath\" (1939). Ecological themes recur in Steinbeck's novels of the period.\n\nSteinbeck's close relations with Ricketts ended in 1941 when Steinbeck moved away from Pacific Grove and divorced his wife Carol. Ricketts' biographer Eric Enno Tamm notes that, except for \"East of Eden\" (1952), Steinbeck's writing declined after Ricketts' untimely death in 1948.\n\nSteinbeck's novel \"The Moon Is Down\" (1942), about the Socrates-inspired spirit of resistance in an occupied village in Northern Europe, was made into a film almost immediately. It was presumed that the unnamed country of the novel was Norway and the occupiers the Nazis. In 1945, Steinbeck received the King Haakon VII Freedom Cross for his literary contributions to the Norwegian resistance movement.\n\nIn 1943, Steinbeck served as a World War II war correspondent for the \"New York Herald Tribune\" and worked with the Office of Strategic Services (predecessor of the CIA). It was at that time he became friends with Will Lang, Jr. of \"Time\"/\"Life\" magazine. During the war, Steinbeck accompanied the commando raids of Douglas Fairbanks, Jr.'s Beach Jumpers program, which launched small-unit diversion operations against German-held islands in the Mediterranean. At one point, he accompanied Fairbanks on an invasion of an island off the coast of Italy and helped capture Italian and German prisoners, using a Tommy Gun. Some of his writings from this period were incorporated in the documentary \"Once There Was a War\" (1958).\n\nSteinbeck returned from the war with a number of wounds from shrapnel and some psychological trauma. He treated himself, as ever, by writing. He wrote Alfred Hitchcock's movie, \"Lifeboat\" (1944), and the film, \"A Medal for Benny\" (1945), with screenwriter Jack Wagner about paisanos from \"Tortilla Flat\" going to war. He later requested that his name be removed from the credits of \"Lifeboat,\" because he believed the final version of the film had racist undertones. In 1944, suffering from homesickness for his Pacific Grove/Monterey life of the 1930s, he wrote \"Cannery Row\" (1945), which became so famous that in 1958 Ocean View Avenue in Monterey, the location of the book, was renamed Cannery Row.\n\nAfter the war, he wrote \"The Pearl\" (1947), knowing it would be filmed eventually. The story first appeared in the December 1945 issue of Woman's Home Companion magazine as \"The Pearl of the World.\" It was illustrated by John Alan Maxwell. The novel is an imaginative telling of a story which Steinbeck had heard in La Paz in 1940, as related in \"The Log From the Sea of Cortez\", which he described in Chapter 11 as being \"so much like a parable that it almost can't be\". Steinbeck traveled to Mexico for the filming with Wagner who helped with the script; on this trip he would be inspired by the story of Emiliano Zapata, and subsequently wrote a film script (\"Viva Zapata!\") directed by Elia Kazan and starring Marlon Brando and Anthony Quinn.\n\nIn 1947, Steinbeck made the first of many trips to the Soviet Union, this one with photographer Robert Capa. They visited Moscow, Kiev, Tbilisi, Batumi and Stalingrad, some of the first Americans to visit many parts of the USSR since the communist revolution. Steinbeck's 1948 book about their experiences, \"A Russian Journal\", was illustrated with Capa's photos. In 1948, the year the book was published, Steinbeck was elected to the American Academy of Arts and Letters.\n\nIn 1952 Steinbeck's longest novel, \"East of Eden\", was published. According to his third wife, Elaine, he considered it his \"magnum opus\", his greatest novel.\n\nIn 1952, John Steinbeck appeared as the on-screen narrator of 20th Century Fox's film, \"O. Henry's Full House\". Although Steinbeck later admitted he was uncomfortable before the camera, he provided interesting introductions to several filmed adaptations of short stories by the legendary writer O. Henry. About the same time, Steinbeck recorded readings of several of his short stories for Columbia Records; the recordings provide a record of Steinbeck's deep, resonant voice.\n\nFollowing the success of \"Viva Zapata!\", Steinbeck collaborated with Kazan on \"East of Eden\", James Dean's film debut.\n\"\" is a travelogue of his 1960 road trip with his poodle Charley. Steinbeck bemoans his lost youth and roots, while dispensing both criticism and praise for America. According to Steinbeck's son Thom, Steinbeck made the journey because he knew he was dying and wanted to see the country one last time.\n\nSteinbeck's last novel, \"The Winter of Our Discontent\" (1961), examines moral decline in America. The protagonist Ethan grows discontented with his own moral decline and that of those around him. The book has a very different tone from Steinbeck's amoral and ecological stance in earlier works like \"Tortilla Flat\" and \"Cannery Row\". It was not a critical success. Many reviewers recognized the importance of the novel, but were disappointed that it was not another \"Grapes of Wrath\".\nIn the Nobel Prize presentation speech next year, however, the Swedish Academy cited it most favorably: \"Here he attained the same standard which he set in The Grapes of Wrath. Again he holds his position as an independent expounder of the truth with an unbiased instinct for what is genuinely American, be it good or bad.\"\n\nApparently taken aback by the critical reception of this novel, and the critical outcry when he was awarded the Nobel Prize for Literature in 1962, Steinbeck published no more fiction in the next six years before his death.\n\nIn 1962, Steinbeck won the Nobel Prize for literature for his \"realistic and imaginative writing, combining as it does sympathetic humor and keen social perception.\" The selection was heavily criticized, and described as \"one of the Academy's biggest mistakes\" in one Swedish newspaper. The reaction of American literary critics was also harsh. The \"New York Times\" asked why the Nobel committee gave the award to an author whose \"limited talent is, in his best books, watered down by tenth-rate philosophising\", noting that \"[T]he international character of the award and the weight attached to it raise questions about the mechanics of selection and how close the Nobel committee is to the main currents of American writing. ... [W]e think it interesting that the laurel was not awarded to a writer ... whose significance, influence and sheer body of work had already made a more profound impression on the literature of our age\". Steinbeck, when asked on the day of the announcement if he deserved the Nobel, replied: \"Frankly, no.\" Biographer Jackson Benson notes, \"[T]his honor was one of the few in the world that one could not buy nor gain by political maneuver. It was precisely because the committee made its judgment ... on its own criteria, rather than plugging into 'the main currents of American writing' as defined by the critical establishment, that the award had value.\" In his acceptance speech later in the year in Stockholm, he said:\n\nIn 2012, (50 years later), the Nobel Prize opened its archives and it was revealed that Steinbeck was a \"compromise choice\" among a shortlist consisting of Steinbeck, British authors Robert Graves and Lawrence Durrell, French dramatist Jean Anouilh and Danish author Karen Blixen. The declassified documents showed that he was chosen as the best of a bad lot. \"There aren't any obvious candidates for the Nobel prize and the prize committee is in an unenviable situation,\" wrote committee member Henry Olsson. Although the committee believed Steinbeck's best work was behind him by 1962, committee member Anders Österling believed the release of his novel \"The Winter of Our Discontent\" showed that \"after some signs of slowing down in recent years, [Steinbeck has] regained his position as a social truth-teller [and is an] authentic realist fully equal to his predecessors Sinclair Lewis and Ernest Hemingway.\"\n\nAlthough modest about his own talent as a writer, Steinbeck talked openly of his own admiration of certain writers. In 1953, he wrote that he considered cartoonist Al Capp, creator of the satirical \"Li'l Abner\", \"possibly the best writer in the world today.\" At his own first Nobel Prize press conference he was asked his favorite authors and works and replied: \"Hemingway's short stories and nearly everything Faulkner wrote.\"\n\nIn September 1964, President Lyndon B. Johnson awarded Steinbeck Presidential Medal of Freedom.\n\nIn 1967, at the behest of \"Newsday\" magazine, Steinbeck went to Vietnam to report on the war. He thought of the Vietnam War as a heroic venture and was considered a hawk for his position on the war. His sons served in Vietnam before his death, and Steinbeck visited one son in the battlefield. At one point he was allowed to man a machine-gun watch position at night at a firebase while his son and other members of his platoon slept.\n\nIn May 1948, Steinbeck returned to California on an emergency trip to be with his friend Ed Ricketts, who had been seriously injured when a train struck his car. Ricketts died hours before Steinbeck arrived. Upon returning home, Steinbeck was confronted by Gwyn, who asked for a divorce, which became final in August. Steinbeck spent the year after Ricketts' death in deep depression.\n\nIn June 1949, Steinbeck met stage-manager Elaine Scott at a restaurant in Carmel, California. Steinbeck and Scott eventually began a relationship and in December 1950 Steinbeck and Scott married, within a week of the finalizing of Scott's own divorce from actor Zachary Scott. This third marriage for Steinbeck lasted until his death in 1968.\n\nIn 1962, Steinbeck began acting as friend and mentor to the young writer and naturalist Jack Rudloe, who was trying to establish his own biological supply company, now Gulf Specimen Marine Laboratory in Florida. Their correspondence continued until Steinbeck's death.\n\nIn 1966, Steinbeck traveled to Tel Aviv to visit the site of Mount Hope, a farm community established in Israel by his grandfather, whose brother, Friedrich Großsteinbeck, was murdered by Arab marauders in 1858 in what became known as the Outrages at Jaffa.\n\nJohn Steinbeck died in New York City on December 20, 1968, of heart disease and congestive heart failure. He was 66, and had been a lifelong smoker. An autopsy showed nearly complete occlusion of the main coronary arteries.\n\nIn accordance with his wishes, his body was cremated, and interred on March 4, 1969 at the Hamilton family gravesite in Salinas, with those of his parents and maternal grandparents. His third wife, Elaine, was buried in the plot in 2004. He had written to his doctor that he felt deeply \"in his flesh\" that he would not survive his physical death, and that the biological end of his life was the final end to it.\n\nThe day after Steinbeck's death in New York City, reviewer Charles Poore wrote in \"The New York Times\": \"John Steinbeck's first great book was his last great book. But Good Lord, what a book that was and is: \"The Grapes of Wrath\".\" Poore noted a \"preachiness\" in Steinbeck's work, \"as if half his literary inheritance came from the best of Mark Twain— and the other half from the worst of Cotton Mather.\" But he asserted that \"Steinbeck didn't need the Nobel Prize— the Nobel judges needed him.\"\n\nSteinbeck's incomplete novel based on the King Arthur legends of Malory and others, \"The Acts of King Arthur and His Noble Knights\", was published in 1976.\n\nMany of Steinbeck's works are required reading in American high schools. In the United Kingdom, \"Of Mice and Men\" is one of the key texts used by the examining body AQA for its English Literature GCSE. A study by the Center for the Learning and Teaching of Literature in the United States found that \"Of Mice and Men\" was one of the ten most frequently read books in public high schools. Contra-wise, Steinbeck's works have been frequently banned in the United States. \"The Grapes of Wrath\" was banned by school boards: in August 1939, Kern County Board of Supervisors banned the book from the county's publicly funded schools and libraries. It was burned in Salinas on two different occasions. In 2003, a school board in Mississippi banned it on the grounds of profanity. According to the American Library Association Steinbeck was one of the ten most frequently banned authors from 1990 to 2004, with \"Of Mice and Men\" ranking sixth out of 100 such books in the United States.\n\nThe award of the 1962 Nobel Prize for Literature to Steinbeck was controversial in the United States. The award citation lauded Steinbeck \"for his realistic and imaginative writings, combining as they do sympathetic humour and keen social perception\". Many critics complained that the author's best works were behind him. \"The New York Times\" ran an article by Arthur Mizener titled \"Does a Writer with a Moral Vision of the 1930s Deserve the Nobel Prize?\" that claimed Steinbeck was undeserving of the prestigious prize as he was a \"limited talent\" whose works were \"watered down by tenth-rate philosophizing\". Many American critics now consider these attacks to be politically motivated.\n\nThe British newspaper \"The Guardian\", in a 2013 article that revealed that Steinbeck had been a compromise choice for the Nobel Prize, called him a \"Giant of American Letters\". Despite ongoing attacks on his literary reputation, Steinbeck's works continue to sell well and he is widely taught in American and British schools as a bridge to more complex literature. Works such as \"Of Mice and Men\" are short and easy to read, and compassionately illustrate universal themes that are still relevant in the 21st century.\n\nSteinbeck grew up in California's Salinas Valley, a culturally diverse place with a rich migratory and immigrant history. This upbringing imparted a regionalistic flavor to his writing, giving many of his works a distinct sense of place.\nSalinas, Monterey and parts of the San Joaquin Valley were the setting for many of his stories. The area is now sometimes referred to as \"Steinbeck Country\". Most of his early work dealt with subjects familiar to him from his formative years. An exception was his first novel, \"\", which concerns the pirate Henry Morgan, whose adventures had captured Steinbeck's imagination as a child.\n\nIn his subsequent novels, Steinbeck found a more authentic voice by drawing upon direct memories of his life in California. His childhood friend, Max Wagner, a brother of Jack Wagner and who later became a film actor, served as inspiration for \"The Red Pony\". Later he used actual American conditions and events in the first half of the 20th century, which he had experienced first-hand as a reporter. Steinbeck often populated his stories with struggling characters; his works examined the lives of the working class and migrant workers during the Dust Bowl and the Great Depression.\n\nHis later work reflected his wide range of interests, including marine biology, politics, religion, history and mythology. One of his last published works was \"Travels with Charley\", a travelogue of a road trip he took in 1960 to rediscover America.\n\nSteinbeck's boyhood home, a turreted Victorian building in downtown Salinas, has been preserved and restored by the Valley Guild, a nonprofit organization. Fixed menu lunches are served Monday through Saturday, and the house is open for tours on Sunday afternoons during the summer.\n\nThe National Steinbeck Center, two blocks away at 1 Main Street is the only museum in the U.S. dedicated to a single author. Dana Gioia (chair of the National Endowment for the Arts) told an audience at the center, \"This is really the best modern literary shrine in the country, and I've seen them all.\" Its \"Steinbeckiana\" includes \"Rocinante\", the camper-truck in which Steinbeck made the cross-country trip described in \"Travels with Charley\".\n\nHis father's cottage on Eleventh Street in Pacific Grove, where Steinbeck wrote some of his earliest books, also survives.\n\nIn Monterey, Ed Ricketts' laboratory survives (though it is not yet open to the public) and at the corner which Steinbeck describes in \"Cannery Row\", also the store which once belonged to Lee Chong, and the adjacent vacant lot frequented by the hobos of Cannery Row. The site of the \"Hovden Sardine Cannery\" next to Doc's laboratory is now occupied by the Monterey Bay Aquarium. In 1958 the street that Steinbeck described as \"Cannery Row\" in the novel, once named \"Ocean View Avenue\", was renamed \"Cannery Row\" in honor of the novel. The town of Monterey has commemorated Steinbeck's work with an avenue of flags depicting characters from \"Cannery Row\", historical plaques, and sculptured busts depicting Steinbeck and Ricketts.\n\nOn February 27, 1979 (the 77th anniversary of the writer's birth), the United States Postal Service issued a stamp featuring Steinbeck, starting the Postal Service's Literary Arts series honoring American writers.\n\nOn December 5, 2007, California Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger and First Lady Maria Shriver inducted Steinbeck into the California Hall of Fame, located at the California Museum for History, Women and the Arts. His son, author Thomas Steinbeck, accepted the award on his behalf.\n\nTo commemorate the 112th anniversary of Mr. Steinbeck's birthday on February 27, 2014, Google displayed an interactive doodle utilizing animation which included illustrations portraying scenes and quotes from several novels by the author.\n\nSteinbeck and his friend Ed Ricketts appear as a fictionalized characters in the 2016 novel, \"Monterey Bay\" about the founding of the Monterey Bay Aquarium, by Lindsay Hatton (Penguin Press).\n\nSteinbeck was affiliated to the St. Paul's Episcopal Church and he stayed attached throughout his life to Episcopalianism. Especially in his works of fiction, Steinbeck was highly conscious of religion and incorporated it into his style and themes. The shaping of his characters often drew on the Bible and the theology of Anglicanism, combining elements of Roman Catholicism and Protestantism.\n\nSteinbeck distanced himself from religious views when he left Salinas for Stanford. However, the work he produced still reflected the language of his childhood at Salinas, and his beliefs remained a powerful influence within his fiction and non-fiction work. His Episcopal views are prominently displayed in \"The Grapes of Wrath\", in which themes of conversion and self-sacrifice play a major part in the characters Casy and Tom who achieve spiritual transcendence through conversion.\n\nSteinbeck's contacts with leftist authors, journalists, and labor union figures may have influenced his writing. He joined the League of American Writers, a Communist organization, in 1935. Steinbeck was mentored by radical writers Lincoln Steffens and his wife Ella Winter. Through Francis Whitaker, a member of the Communist Party USA's John Reed Club for writers, Steinbeck met with strike organizers from the Cannery and Agricultural Workers' Industrial Union. In 1939, he signed a letter with some other writers in support of the Soviet invasion of Finland and the Soviet-established puppet government.\n\nDocuments, released by the Central Intelligence Agency in 2012, indicate that Steinbeck offered his services to the Agency in 1952, while planning a European tour, and the Director of Central Intelligence, Walter Bedell Smith, was eager to take him up on the offer. What work, if any, Steinbeck may have performed for the CIA during the Cold War is unknown.\n\nSteinbeck was a close associate of playwright Arthur Miller. In June 1957, Steinbeck took a personal and professional risk by supporting him when Miller refused to name names in the House Un-American Activities Committee trials. Steinbeck called the period one of the \"strangest and most frightening times a government and people have ever faced.\"\n\nIn 1967, when he was sent to Vietnam to report on the war, his sympathetic portrayal of the United States Army led the \"New York Post\" to denounce him for betraying his liberal past. Steinbeck's biographer, Jay Parini, says Steinbeck's friendship with President Lyndon B. Johnson influenced his views on Vietnam. Steinbeck may also have been concerned about the safety of his son serving in Vietnam.\n\nSteinbeck complained publicly about government harassment. Thomas Steinbeck, the author's eldest son, said that J. Edgar Hoover, director of the FBI at the time, could find no basis for prosecuting Steinbeck and therefore used his power to encourage the U.S. Internal Revenue Service to audit Steinbeck's taxes every single year of his life, just to annoy him. According to Thomas, a true artist is one who \"without a thought for self, stands up against the stones of condemnation, and speaks for those who are given no real voice in the halls of justice, or the halls of government. By doing so, these people will naturally become the enemies of the political status quo.\"\n\nIn a 1942 letter to United States Attorney General Francis Biddle, John Steinbeck wrote: \"Do you suppose you could ask Edgar's boys to stop stepping on my heels? They think I am an enemy alien. It is getting tiresome.\" The FBI denied that Steinbeck was under investigation.\n\nIn 1936, Steinbeck published the first of what came to be known as his Dustbowl trilogy, which included \"Of Mice and Men\" and \"The Grapes of Wrath\". This first novel tells the story of a fruit pickers' strike in California which is both aided and damaged by the help of \"the Party,\" generally taken to be the Communist Party, although this is never spelled out in the book.\n\n\"Of Mice and Men\" is a tragedy that was written as a play in 1937. The story is about two traveling ranch workers, George and Lennie, trying to earn enough money to buy their own farm/ranch. As it is set in 1930s America, it provides an insight into The Great Depression, encompassing themes of racism, loneliness, prejudice against the mentally ill, and the struggle for personal independence. Along with \"The Grapes of Wrath\", \"East of Eden\", and \"The Pearl\", \"Of Mice and Men\" is one of Steinbeck's best known works. It was made into a movie three times, in 1939 starring Burgess Meredith, Lon Chaney Jr., and Betty Field, in 1982 starring Randy Quaid, Robert Blake and Ted Neeley, and in 1992 starring Gary Sinise and John Malkovich.\n\nThe \"Grapes of Wrath\" is set in the Great Depression and describes a family of sharecroppers, the Joads, who were driven from their land due to the dust storms of the Dust Bowl. The title is a reference to the Battle Hymn of the Republic. Some critics found it too sympathetic to the workers' plight and too critical of capitalism, but found a large audience of its own. It won both the National Book Award and Pulitzer Prize for fiction (novels) and was adapted as a film starring Henry Fonda and Jane Darwell and directed by John Ford.\n\nSteinbeck deals with the nature of good and evil in this Salinas Valley saga. The story follows two families: the Hamiltons – based on Steinbeck's own maternal ancestry – and the Trasks, reprising stories about the Biblical Adam and his progeny. The book was published in 1952. It was made into a 1955 movie directed by Elia Kazan and starring James Dean.\n\nIn 1960, Steinbeck bought a pickup truck and had it modified with a custom-built camper top – which was rare at the time – and drove across the United States with his faithful 'blue' standard poodle, Charley. Steinbeck nicknamed his truck \"Rocinante\" after Don Quixote's \"noble steed\". In this sometimes comical, sometimes melancholic book, Steinbeck describes what he sees from Maine to Montana to California, and from there to Texas and Louisiana and back to his home on Long Island. The restored camper truck is on exhibit in the National Steinbeck Center in Salinas.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "609523", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=609523", "title": "Joseph C. Wilson", "text": "Joseph C. Wilson\n\nJoseph Charles Wilson IV (born November 6, 1949) is a former United States diplomat best known for his 2002 trip to Niger to investigate allegations that Saddam Hussein was attempting to purchase yellowcake uranium; his \"New York Times\" op-ed piece, \"What I Didn't Find in Africa\"; and the subsequent leaking of information pertaining to the identity of his wife Valerie Plame as a CIA agent. He is the CEO of a consulting firm he founded, JC Wilson International Ventures. In January 2007, Wilson joined Jarch Capital, LLC, as vice chairman.\n\nJoseph C. Wilson, IV, was born in Bridgeport, Connecticut, in 1949 to Joseph Charles Wilson, III, and Phyllis (Finnell) Wilson; he grew up in California and Europe (Wilson, \"The Politics of Truth\" 32–33). He was raised in a \"proud Republican family\" in which \"there [was] a long tradition of politics and service to the farm\" and for which \"[p]olitics was a staple around the table\" (Wilson, \"The Politics of Truth\" 31). His mother's uncle, James \"Sunny Jim\" Rolph, was mayor of San Francisco, California, from 1912 to 1931 and served as California's governor until his 1934 death in office (\"The Politics of Truth\" 31). Wilson's mother's brothers jokingly referred to noted conservative Barry Goldwater as \"a bit liberal\" (31). Military service was also a strong part of his family history. Both of Wilson's grandfathers served in the two world wars, his paternal grandfather receiving both the British Distinguished Flying Cross and the French Croix de Guerre for his service in World War I (32). Wilson's father Joe was a Marine pilot in World War II and narrowly escaped death by taking off immediately before the bombing of the aircraft carrier USS \"Franklin\", in which 700 other American servicemen died (31).\n\nIn 1968, Wilson matriculated at the University of California, Santa Barbara, majoring, he once joked, in \"history, volleyball, and surfing\" and maintaining a \"C\" average (\"The Politics of Truth\" 32). He worked as a carpenter for five years after his 1972 graduation. Later, he became more serious about his education, winning a graduate fellowship and studying public administration. The Vietnam War protests of the late 1960s galvanized Wilson along with much of his generation and \"pitted parents against kids in [his] family just as it did in many households around the country\" (\"The Politics of Truth\" 32).\n\nWilson's first marriage was to his college sweetheart Susan Otchis in 1974 (\"The Politics of Truth\" 33). In 1979, the couple had a set of twins, Sabrina Cecile and Joseph Charles V. The marriage ended in an amicable divorce in 1986, toward the end of his service in Burundi. Wilson married his second wife Jacqueline, a French diplomat, raised in Africa, in 1986 (86–89). Though Wilson and Jacqueline began to live separate lives in the 1990s, they did not divorce until 1998 because Wilson \"was never in one place long enough to complete the process\" (242). Wilson had met Valerie Plame in 1997, while working for President Bill Clinton; they married in 1998, after Wilson's divorce from Jacqueline (242). Wilson lives in Santa Fe, New Mexico, with his wife and their two children, twins Trevor Rolph and Samantha Finnell Diana, born in 2000.\n\nHaving become fluent in French as a teenager, Wilson entered the US Foreign Service in 1976, where he would be employed until 1998.\n\nFrom January 1976 through 1998, he was posted in five African nations; as a general services officer in Niamey, Niger, (his first assignment) he was \"responsible for keeping the power on and the cars running, among other duties\". From 1988 to 1991, he was the Deputy Chief of Mission (to US Ambassador to Iraq April Glaspie) at the US Embassy in Baghdad, Iraq. In the wake of Iraq's 1990 invasion of Kuwait, he became the last American diplomat to meet with Iraqi dictator Saddam Hussein, telling him in very clear terms to leave Kuwait (Wilson, \"The Politics of Truth\" 107–27). When Hussein sent a note to Wilson (along with other embassy heads in Baghdad) threatening to execute anyone sheltering foreigners in Iraq, Wilson publicly repudiated the dictator by appearing at a press conference wearing a homemade noose around his neck and declaring, \"If the choice is to allow American citizens to be taken hostage or to be executed, I will bring my own fucking rope.\"\n\nDespite Hussein's threats, Wilson sheltered more than 100 Americans at the embassy and successfully evacuated several thousand people (Americans and other nationals) from Iraq. For his actions, he was called \"a true American hero\" by President George H. W. Bush. From 1992 to 1995, he served as US ambassador to Gabon and São Tomé and Príncipe.\n\nFrom 1995 to 1997, Wilson served as Political Advisor (POLAD) to the Commander in Chief of US Armed Forces, Europe (EUCOM), in Stuttgart, Germany. From 1997 until 1998, when he retired, he helped direct Africa policy as Special Assistant to President Bill Clinton and as National Security Council Senior Director for African Affairs.\n\nSince retiring from government service in 1998, Wilson has managed JC Wilson International Ventures Corp., an international business development and management company. Early in 2007, Wilson became vice chairman of Jarch Capital, LLC., to advise the firm on expansion in areas of Africa considered \"politically sensitive.\"\n\nWilson serves as a guest speaker and panelist in conferences and other programs devoted to African business policies and political affairs, as well as on the matters pertaining to the CIA leak scandal.\n\nAt the midpoint of his career as a diplomat, Wilson served for a year (1985–1986) as a Congressional Fellow in the offices of Senator Al Gore and Representative Tom Foley; he would later attribute his working for the Democratic Party to \"happenstance.\" That experience helped him gain his position as Special Assistant to President Bill Clinton and Senior Director for African Affairs, National Security Council, in 1997–1998.\n\nOver the years, Wilson has made contributions to the campaigns of Democratic candidates, such as Senator Ted Kennedy of Massachusetts and Congressman Charles B. Rangel of New York, and to Republican Congressman Ed Royce of California. In 2000, he donated funds both to Gore's and Bush's presidential campaigns.(\"The Politics of Truth\" pp. 278–80, 282).\n\nIn 2003, Wilson endorsed John Kerry for president and donated to his campaign; in 2003 and 2004, he served as an advisor to and speechwriter for the campaign (410–12). Wilson endorsed Hillary Clinton in the 2008 US presidential election. He made speeches on her behalf and attended fundraisers for the campaign. After the 2003 invasion of Iraq, Wilson supported activist groups like Win Without War, a nonpartisan coalition of groups united in opposition to the Iraq War Since the invasion and the publication of his memoir, \"The Politics of Truth\", he has spoken frequently in the public media and at colleges and universities.\n\nIn late February 2002, Wilson traveled to Niger at the CIA's request to investigate the possibility that Saddam Hussein had purchased enriched yellowcake uranium. Wilson met with the current US Ambassador to Niger, Barbro Owens-Kirkpatrick (1999–2002) at the embassy and then interviewed dozens of officials who had been in the Niger government at the time of the supposed deal. He ultimately concluded: \"it was highly doubtful that any such transaction had ever taken place.\"\n\nWilson learned that the Iraqis had in fact requested a meeting to discuss \"expanding commercial relations\" but that Niger's Prime Minister Mayaki had declined, due to concern about U.N. sanctions against Iraq.\n\nPresident Bush's 2003 State of the Union Address included these 16 words: \"The British government has learned that Saddam Hussein recently sought significant quantities of uranium from Africa.\"\nIn response, in the July 6, 2003, issue of \"The New York Times\", Wilson contributed an \"op-ed\" entitled \"What I Didn't Find in Africa\", in which he states that on the basis of his \"experience with the administration in the months leading up to the war\", he has \"little choice but to conclude that some of the intelligence related to Iraq's nuclear weapons program was twisted to exaggerate the Iraqi threat.\"\n\nWilson describes the basis for his mission to Niger as follows: \"The vice president's office asked a serious question [about the truth of allegations that Iraq was seeking to purchase uranium yellowcake from Niger]. I was asked to help formulate the answer\".\n\nIn the last two paragraphs of his op-ed, Wilson relates his perspective to the Bush administration's rationale for the Iraq War:\n\nAt a press conference on Monday, July 7, 2003, the day after the publication of the op-ed, Colin Powell said: \"There was sufficient evidence floating around at that time that such a statement was not totally outrageous or not to be believed or not to be appropriately used. It's that once we used the statement, and after further analysis, and looking at other estimates we had, and other information that was coming in, it turned out that the basis upon which that statement was made didn't hold up, and we said so, and we've acknowledged it, and we've moved on.\" He also said: \"the case I put down on the 5th of February [2003], for an hour and 20 minutes, roughly, on terrorism, on weapons of mass destruction, and on the human rights case ... we stand behind\"\n\nIn a July 11, 2003, statement, CIA director George Tenet, stated that the President, Vice President and other senior administration officials were not briefed on Wilson's report (otherwise widely distributed in the intelligence community) because it \"did not resolve whether Iraq was or was not seeking uranium from abroad\". In his 2007 memoir, Tenet writes that Wilson's report \"produced no solid answers\" and \"was never delivered to Cheney. In fact, I have no recollection myself of hearing about Wilson's trip at the time.\"\n\nIn the July 11 statement, Tenet also notes that, according to Wilson's report, a former Niger official interpreted an Iraqi approach as an \"overture as an attempt to discuss uranium sales.\" Asked about this the following October, Wilson said that the official in question had declined the meeting, due to U.N. Security Council sanctions against Iraq, but speculated \"maybe they might have wanted to talk about uranium\".\n\nThere has been substantial disagreement about whether Wilson implies in the Op Ed that he was sent to Niger at the request of the vice president, or his office. The implication that Cheney or his office sent Wilson to Niger, whether made by Wilson or the media, was apparently a cause of consternation to vice-presidential aide I. Lewis Libby, who called NBC's Tim Russert to complain.\nOn July 6, 2003, in a \"Meet the Press\" interview with Andrea Mitchell, Wilson stated: \"The question was asked of the CIA by the office of the vice president. The office of the vice president, I am absolutely convinced, received a very specific response to the question it asked and that response was based upon my trip out there.\"\n\nThe week after the publication of Wilson's \"New York Times\" op ed, Robert Novak, in his syndicated \"Washington Post\" column, disclosed that Wilson's wife, Valerie Plame, worked for the CIA as an agency operative. Subsequently, former Ambassador Wilson and others alleged that the disclosure was part of the Bush administration's attempts to discredit his report about his investigations in Africa and the op-ed describing his findings because they did not support the government's rationale for the 2003 invasion of Iraq. Wilson's allegations led to a federal investigation of the leak by the United States Department of Justice, to the appointment of a Special Counsel Patrick Fitzgerald, to the CIA leak grand jury investigation, and to a major American political scandal variously dubbed by the press \"Plamegate\", the \"Plame affair\", the \"CIA leak scandal\", and other terms relating to the public disclosure or \"leak\" of Mrs. Wilson's then-classified covert CIA identity as \"Valerie Plame\".\n\nIn 2005, retired US Army Major General Paul E. Vallely claimed that former Ambassador Wilson \"mentioned Plame's status as a CIA employee\" in 2002 [one year before she was allegedly \"outed\"] in the Fox News Channel's \"green room\" in Washington, D.C., as they waited to appear on air as analysts.\n\nAlthough no one was \"indicted for actually leaking Plame's identity,\" the investigation resulted in the federal criminal trial \"United States v. Libby\" in which Lewis Libby, the former Chief of Staff to Vice President of the United States, Dick Cheney, was tried on five federal felony counts. He was convicted on four of the counts, involving false statements, perjury, and obstruction of justice, none of which related directly to the Plame revelation but rather to his failure to cooperate with the subsequent investigation into the revelation. Libby was sentenced to 30 months in prison and a fine of $250,000.\n\nLibby's prison sentence was commuted by President Bush, who let the conviction and fine stand. Libby was later granted a full pardon by President Trump.\n\nIn 2004, Wilson published a political and personal memoir entitled \"The Politics of Truth: Inside the Lies that Led to War and Betrayed My Wife's CIA Identity: A Diplomat's Memoir\". The book describes his diplomatic career, his personal life and family, and his experiences during the Valerie Plame affair. Wilson's autobiographical account of over two decades of his life in foreign service includes detailed descriptions of his extensive diplomatic-career experiences, his first marriage and family, briefer references to his second marriage, his meeting of Valerie Plame, their courtship and marriage, and a detailed narrative of the events leading to his decision to go public with his criticisms of the George W. Bush administration and its aftermath.\n\nAn editorial in the \"Wall Street Journal\" published in mid-July 2004, finds some justification for his perspective presented in \"What I Didn't Find in Africa\", but highlights some evidence of Iraq's \"attempts\" at acquiring uranium yellowcake from African nations such as Niger, on which Iraq did not follow through.\n\nBut another editorial published in the July 13, 2005, \"Wall Street Journal\" asserts that Wilson had lied in his \"What I Didn't Find in Africa\" about \"what he'd discovered in Africa, how he'd discovered it, what he'd told the CIA about it, or even why he was sent on the mission.\"\n\nAn editorial headlined \"A Good Leak\" published in the April 9, 2006, \"Washington Post\" claims that \"Mr. Wilson was the one guilty of twisting the truth and that, in fact, his report [to the CIA] supported the conclusion that Iraq had sought uranium.\"\n\nSome commentators and newspaper readers believed that this \"Washington Post\" editorial contradicted a news article in the paper's same issue, which reported that the administration had misrepresented its actual confidence level in the intelligence reports that Hussein was seeking uranium.\n\nComplaints to the \"Washington Post\" ombudsman Deborah Howell about the apparent contradiction between the article and editorial, resulted in her acknowledging \"the high wall between editorial and news\" and also that \"it would have been helpful if the editorial had put statements about Wilson in more context\".\n\nIn their 2006 book \"Hubris\", Michael Isikoff and David Corn assert that it was Richard Armitage, Deputy Secretary of State, who first revealed that Wilson's wife worked for the CIA to Robert Novak sometime before July 8, 2003. In late August 2006, along with advance publicity for the book, news accounts and editorials began focusing on that public revelation: \"Richard L. Armitage, a former deputy secretary of state, has acknowledged that he was the person whose conversation with a columnist in 2003 prompted a long, politically laden criminal investigation in what became known as the C.I.A. leak case, a lawyer involved in the case said on Tuesday [August 29, 2006].\"\n\nWilson and his wife then amended their civil lawsuit (see below) to add Armitage as a defendant along with Vice President Dick Cheney and I. Lewis \"Scooter\" Libby. According to their complaint, Richard Armitage was being sued individually (independently of his White House colleagues) for having nevertheless also violated Plame's right to privacy and property (ability to make a living), while not reducing the culpability of the others as claimed.\n\nIn a column posted in TownHall.com on 14 September 2006, however, Novak disputes details of Armitage's contemporaneous media accounts of their conversations. According to Novak, \"Armitage did not, as he now indicates, merely pass on something he had heard and that he 'thought' might be so. Rather, he identified to me the CIA division where Mrs. Wilson worked, and said flatly that she recommended the mission to Niger by her husband, former Amb. Joseph Wilson. Second, Armitage did not slip me this information as idle chitchat, as he now suggests. He made clear he considered it especially suited for my column.\" He noted that critics would not be able to \"fit Armitage into the left-wing fantasy of a well-crafted White House conspiracy to destroy Joe and Valerie Wilson. The news that he and not Karl Rove was the leaker was devastating news for the Left.\"\n\nIn the \"American Journalism Review\", editor Rem Rieder noted that the disclosure that Armitage was Novak's \"primary source\" was insufficiently covered in the media.\n\nIn response to the verdict on March 6, 2007, finding Lewis Libby guilty of four of the five charges in the Fitzgerald grand jury indictment against him, the Wilsons issued a statement in a press release posted on the website of Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics in Washington. They stated that they respected the jury's verdict and believed justice was done, as well as affirming their commitment to pursuing their civil suit.\n\nWilson criticized President George W. Bush's July 2, 2007, commutation of Lewis Libby's prison sentence, calling it \"a cover-up of the Vice President's role in this matter and quite possibly the role of the President and/or some of his senior White House advisers.\" Wilson also complained that the President's action and others' actions leading to President Bush's commutation of Libby's sentence could seriously damage United States national security by harming its intelligence capability.\n\nOn the evening of the verdict in the Libby trial, Joseph C. Wilson appeared on \"Larry King Live\", during which he announced that he and his wife had \"signed a deal with Warner Bros of Hollywood to offer their consulting services—or maybe more—in the making of the forthcoming movie about the Libby trial\", their lives and the CIA leak scandal. According to an article by Michael Fleming published in \"Variety\" earlier in the week, the feature film, a co-production between Weed Road's Akiva Goldsman and Jerry and Janet Zucker of Zucker Productions with a screenplay by Jez and John Butterworth to be based in part on Valerie Wilson's then still-forthcoming book \"Fair Game\", whose publication, in October 2007, after a delay of two months, was contingent on CIA clearances.\n\nThe film, \"Fair Game\", was released November 5, 2010, starring Naomi Watts and Sean Penn. It is based on two books, one written by Wilson, and the other by his wife.\n\nOn July 13, 2006, a civil suit was filed by Joseph and Valerie Wilson against Vice President Dick Cheney, his former Chief of Staff I. Lewis \"Scooter\" Libby, top Presidential advisor Karl Rove, and other unnamed senior White House officials (among whom they later added Richard Armitage), for their alleged role in the public disclosure of Valerie Wilson's classified CIA status.\nOn September 13, 2006, Joseph and Valerie Wilson amended their original lawsuit, adding Richard Armitage as a fourth defendant. Unlike their charges against Rove, Cheney, and Libby, \"claiming that they had violated her constitutional rights and discredited her by disclosing that she was an undercover CIA operative\", the Wilsons sued Armitage \"for violating the 'Wilsons' constitutional right to privacy, Mrs. Wilson's constitutional right to property, and for committing the tort of publication of private facts.'\"\n\nUnited States District Court for the District of Columbia Judge John D. Bates dismissed the Wilsons' lawsuit on jurisdictional grounds on July 19, 2007, stating that the Wilsons had not shown that the case belonged in federal court. Bates also ruled that the court lacked jurisdiction over the claim because the couple had not yet exhausted their administrative remedies. Bates stated that the lawsuit raised \"important questions relating to the propriety of actions undertaken by our highest government officials\" but also noted that \"there can be no serious dispute that the act of rebutting public criticism, such as that levied by Mr. Wilson against the Bush administration's handling of prewar foreign intelligence, by speaking with members of the press is within the scope of defendants' duties as high-level Executive Branch officials\", even if \"the alleged means by which defendants chose to rebut Mr. Wilson's comments and attack his credibility\" were perhaps \"highly unsavory.\"\n\nOn July 20, 2007, Ms. Sloan and the Wilsons announced publicly that they had filed an appeal of the US District Court's decision to dismiss their lawsuit. On August 12, 2008, in a 2–1 decision, the three-judge panel of the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit upheld the dismissal. Melanie Sloan, of Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics in Washington, which represents the Wilsons, \"said the group will request the full D.C. Circuit to review the case and appeal to the US Supreme Court.\" Agreeing with the Bush administration, the Obama Justice Department argues the Wilsons have no legitimate grounds to sue. On the current justice department position, Sloan stated: \"We are deeply disappointed that the Obama administration has failed to recognize the grievous harm top Bush White House officials inflicted on Joe and Valerie Wilson. The government's position cannot be reconciled with President Obama's oft-stated commitment to once again make government officials accountable for their actions.\" \n\nOn June 21, 2009, the U.S. Supreme Court refused to hear the appeal.\n\nPublic service awards\n\nDecorations\n\nOther awards\n\n\n"}
{"id": "173434", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=173434", "title": "Koxinga", "text": "Koxinga\n\nZheng Chenggong, Prince of Yanping (14 June 1661 – 23 June 1662), better known internationally by his Hokkien honorific Koxinga or Coxinga (), was a Chinese Ming loyalist who resisted the Qing conquest of China in the 17th century, fighting them on China's southeastern coast.\n\nIn 1661, Koxinga defeated the Dutch outposts on Formosa, and established a dynasty, the House of Koxinga, which ruled the island as the Kingdom of Tungning from 1661 to 1683.\n\nZheng Sen was born in 1624 in Hirado, Hizen Province, Japan, to Zheng Zhilong, a Chinese merchant and pirate, and a Japanese woman, recorded only by her surname \"Tagawa\", or probably Tagawa Matsu. He was raised there until the age of seven with the Japanese name , and then moved to Nan'an county in Quanzhou in Fujian province of China.\n\nIn 1638, Zheng became a \"Xiucai\" (a successful candidate) in the imperial examination and became one of the twelve \"Linshansheng\" () of Nan'an. In 1641, Koxinga married the niece of Dong Yangxian, an official who was a \"Jinshi\" from Hui'an. In 1644, Koxinga studied at the Imperial Nanking University, where he met and became a student of the scholar Qian Qianyi.\n\nIn 1644, Beijing fell to rebels led by Li Zicheng and the Chongzhen Emperor hanged himself on a tree at modern-day Jingshan Park in Beijing. Manchu armies aided by Wu Sangui's forces defeated the rebels and took the city. The Ming remnant forces retreated to Nanjing where they put Prince Fu on the throne as the Hongguang Emperor in an attempt to continue the Ming dynasty in the south. The next year, the Manchu armies led by Dodo advanced south and conquered Yangzhou and Nanjing while the Ming leader defending Yangzhou, Shi Kefa, was killed. The Hongguang emperor was captured and executed.\n\nIn 1645, Prince Tang was installed on the throne of the Southern Ming as the Longwu Emperor with support from Zheng Zhilong and his family. The Longwu Emperor established his court in Fuzhou, which was controlled by the Zhengs. In the later part of the year, another Ming Prince Lu proclaimed himself as Regent () in Shaoxing and established his own court there. Although Prince Lu and Longwu's regimes stemmed from the same dynasty, each pursued different goals.\n\nDue to the natural defences of Fujian and the military resources of the Zheng family, the emperor was able to remain safe for some time. The Longwu Emperor granted Zheng Zhilong's son, Zheng Sen, a new given name, \"Chenggong\" (), and the title of \"Koxinga\" (\"Lord of the Imperial Surname\"). One of his cousins also had it.\n\nIn 1646, Koxinga first led the Ming armies to resist the Manchu invaders and won the favour of the Longwu Emperor. The Longwu Emperor's reign in Fuzhou was brief, as Zheng Zhilong refused to support his plans for a counter-offensive against the rapidly expanding forces of the newly established Qing dynasty by the Manchus. Zheng Zhilong ordered the defending general of Xianxia Pass (), Shi Fu (a.k.a. Shi Tianfu, a relative of Shi Lang), to retreat to Fuzhou even when Qing armies approached Fujian. For this reason, the Qing army faced little resistance when it conquered the north of the pass. In September 1646, Qing armies broke through the inadequately defended mountain passes and entered Fujian. Zheng Zhilong retreated to his coastal fortress and the Longwu Emperor faced the Qing armies alone. Longwu's forces were destroyed; he was captured and was executed in October 1646.\n\nThe Qing forces sent envoys to meet Zheng Zhilong secretly and offered to appoint him as the governor of both Fujian and Guangdong provinces if he would surrender to the Qing. Zheng Zhilong agreed and ignored the objections of his family, surrendering himself to the Qing forces in Fuzhou on 21 November 1646. Koxinga and his uncles were left as the successors to the leadership of Zheng Zhilong's military forces. Koxinga operated outside Xiamen and recruited many to join his cause in a few months. He used the superiority of his naval forces to launch amphibious raids on Manchu-occupied territory in Fujian and he managed to take Tong'an in Quanzhou prefecture in early 1647. However, Koxinga's forces lacked the ability to defend the newly occupied territory.\n\nFollowing the fall of Tong'an to Zheng, the Manchus launched a counterattack in the spring of 1647, during which they stormed the Zheng family's hometown of Anping. Koxinga's mother, Lady Tagawa, had come from Japan in 1645 to join her family in Fujian (Koxinga's younger brother, Tagawa Shichizaemon, remained in Japan). She did not follow her husband to surrender to the Qing Dynasty. She was caught by Manchu forces in Anping and committed suicide after refusal to submit to the enemy, according to traditional accounts.\n\nBy 1650, Koxinga was strong enough to establish himself as the head of the Zheng family. He pledged allegiance to the only remaining claimant to the throne of the Ming Dynasty, the Yongli Emperor. The Yongli Emperor was fleeing from the Manchus in south-western China with a motley court and hastily assembled army at the time. Despite one fruitless attempt, Koxinga was unable to do anything to aid the last Ming emperor. Instead, he decided to concentrate on securing his own position on the southeast coast.\n\nKoxinga enjoyed a series of military successes in 1651 and 1652 that increased the Qing government's anxiety over the threat he posed. Zheng Zhilong wrote a letter to his son from Beijing, presumably at the request of the Shunzhi Emperor and the Qing government, urging his son to negotiate with the Manchurians. The long series of negotiations between Koxinga and the Qing Dynasty lasted until November 1654. The negotiations ultimately failed. The Qing government then appointed Prince Jidu (son of Jirgalang) to lead an attack on Koxinga's territory after this failure.\n\nOn 9 May 1656, Jidu's armies attacked Jinmen, an island near Xiamen that Koxinga had been using to train his troops. Partly as a result of a major storm, the Manchus were defeated, and they lost most of their fleet in the battle. Koxinga had sent one of his naval commanders to capture Zhoushan island prior to Jidu's attack, and now that the Manchus were temporarily without an effective naval force in the Fujian area, Koxinga was free to send a huge army to Zhoushan, which he intended to use as a base to capture Nanjing.\n\nKoxinga's Ming loyalists fought against a majority Han Chinese Bannermen Qing army when attacking Nanjing. The siege lasted almost three weeks, beginning on August 24. Koxinga's forces were unable to maintain a complete encirclement, which enabled the city to obtain supplies and even reinforcements -- though cavalry attacks by the city's forces were successful even before reinforcements arrived. Koxinga's forces were defeated and \"slipped back\" (Wakeman's phrase) to the ships which had brought them. \n\nKoxinga, importantly, was mentally unstable, known to have a vicious temper and tendency towards ordering executions. While this might be explained by the trauma of his family being killed by the Qing army and his mother's reported suicide (in order to prevent capture by the Qing), it was also speculated that he suffered from syphilis, a suspicion held by a Dutch doctor, Christian Beyer, who treated him. Vittorio Riccio noted that Koxinga held samurai ideals on bravery, used \"feigned and hearty laughter\" to show anger, and adhered to bushido because of his samurai training and his Japanese upbringing. One Spanish missionary proffered a personal opinion that that his bad temper and reported propensity for violence was due to Japanese heritage, however, this same missionary's account of the number of Koxinga's executions was greatly exaggerated.\n\nKoxinga suffered from \"depressive insanity\" and mental illness according to Dr. Li Yengyue.\n\nIn 1661, Koxinga led his troops on a landing at \"\" to attack the Dutch colonists in Dutch Formosa. Koxinga said to the Dutch \"Hitherto this island had always belonged to China, and the Dutch had doubtless been permitted to live there, seeing that the Chinese did not require it for themselves; but requiring it now, it was only fair that Dutch strangers, who came from far regions, should give way to the masters of the island.\"\n\nThe Taiwanese Aboriginal tribes who were previously allied with the Dutch against the Chinese during the Guo Huaiyi Rebellion in 1652 turned against the Dutch during the Siege of Fort Zeelandia and defected to Koxinga's Chinese forces. The Aboriginals (Formosans) of Sincan defected to Koxinga after he offered them amnesty, and proceeded to work for the Chinese, beheading Dutch people. The frontier aboriginals in the mountains and plains also surrendered and defected to the Chinese on 17 May 1661, celebrating their freedom from compulsory education under Dutch rule by hunting down Dutch people and beheading them, and by destroying their Protestant school textbooks. On 1 February 1662, the Dutch Governor of Formosa, Frederick Coyett, surrendered Fort Zeelandia to Koxinga. According to Frederick Coyett's own self-justifying account written after the siege, Koxinga's life was saved at the end of the siege by a certain Hans Jurgen Radis of Stockaert, a Dutch defector who strongly advised him against visiting the ramparts of the fort after he had taken it, which Radis knew would be blown up by the retreating Dutch forces. This claim of a Dutch defector only appears in Coyett's account and Chinese records make no mention of any defector. In the peace treaty, Koxinga was styled \"Lord Teibingh Tsiante Teysiancon Koxin\" (大明招討大將軍國姓). This effectively ended 38 years of Dutch rule on Taiwan. Koxinga then devoted himself to transforming Taiwan into a military base for loyalists who wanted to restore the Ming dynasty.\n\nKoxinga formulated a plan to give oxen and farming tools and teach farming techniques to the Taiwan Aboriginals, giving them Ming gowns and caps, and gifting tobacco to Aboriginals who were gathering in crowds to meet and welcome him as he visited their villages after he defeated the Dutch.\n\nIn 1662, Koxinga's forces raided several towns in the Philippines. Koxinga's chief adviser was an Italian friar named Vittorio Riccio, whom he sent to Manila to demand tribute from the colonial government of the Spanish East Indies, threatening to attack the city if his demands were not met. The Spanish refused to pay the tribute and reinforced the garrisons around Manila, but the planned attack never took place due to Koxinga's sudden death in that year after expelling the Dutch on Taiwan.\n\nKoxinga's threat to invade the islands and expel the Spanish was an important factor in the Spanish failure to conquer the Muslim Moro people in Mindanao. The threat of Chinese invasion forced the Spanish to withdraw their forces to Manila, leaving some troops in Jolo and by Lake Lanao to engage the Moro in protracted conflict, while their fort on Zamboanga in Mindanao was immediately evacuated following Koxinga's threats. The Spanish were also forced to permanently abandon their colony in the Maluku Islands (Moluccas) and withdraw their soldiers from there to Manila.\n\nTonio Andrade judged that Koxinga would most likely have been able to defeat the Spanish if the threatened invasion had taken place.\n\nKoxinga died of malaria in June 1662, only a few months after defeating the Dutch in Taiwan, at the age of 37. There were speculations that he died in a sudden fit of madness when his officers refused to carry out his orders to execute his son Zheng Jing. Zheng Jing had had an affair with his wet nurse and conceived a child with her. Zheng Jing succeeded his father as the King of Tungning.\n\nAs he descended into death, Koxinga relented and agreed to let his son Zheng Jing succeed him, he died as he passed into delirium and madness and his regrets to his family and father.\n\nZheng Chenggong’s short but eventful career was characterised by family tension and conflicting loyalties. The title of Koxinga (\"Lord of the Imperial Surname\") was one that Zheng himself used during his lifetime to emphasize his status as an adopted son of the deposed imperial house, so it was also a declaration of ongoing support to the Ming dynasty. Despite his deliberate self-identification as the noble, loyal vassal of a vanquished master, Koxinga’s actual relationship with the Longwu Emperor lasted only twelve months or so, beginning in September 1645 and ending with the Emperor's death the following year. Although many secondary sources claim that the two men shared a \"close bond of affection\", there is an absence of any reliable contemporary evidence on Koxinga’s relationship with the Longwu Emperor.\n\nIn contrast, Koxinga's father Zheng Zhilong left his Japanese wife not long after the birth of his son; Koxinga was a boy of seven when he finally joined his father on the Fujianese coast. It seems that Zheng Zhilong recognised his son’s talent and encouraged him in his studies and the pursuit of a career as a scholar-official, which would legitimise the power the Zheng family had acquired, using sometimes questionable means. Zheng Zhilong’s defection to the Qing must have seemed opportunistic and in stark contrast to Koxinga’s continued loyalty to the Ming. But it is difficult to deny that in refusing to submit to the Qing, Koxinga was risking the life of his father, and that the subsequent death of Zheng Zhilong could only be justified by claiming loyalty to the Ming. It has even been suggested that Koxinga’s fury at the incestuous relationship between his son, Zheng Jing, and a younger son’s wet nurse was due to the fact that strict Confucian morality had played such a crucial role in justifying his lack of filial behaviour.\n\nThe one possible exception to this may have been his relationship with his mother, which has generally been described as being extremely affectionate, particularly in Chinese and Japanese sources. Their time together, however, was apparently very short – despite frequent entreaties from Zheng Zhilong for her to join him in China, Koxinga’s mother was only reunited with her son some time in 1645, and a year later she was killed when the Qing took Xiamen.\n\nA portrait of Zheng was in the hands of Yuchun who was his descendant in the eight generation.\n\nKoxinga's descendants live in both mainland China and Taiwan and descendants of his brother Shichizaemon live in Japan. His descendants through his grandson Zheng Keshuang served as Bannermen in Beijing until 1911 when the Xinhai revolution broke out and the Qing dynasty's fell, after which they moved back to Anhai and Nan'an in southern Fujian. They still live there to this day. His descendants through one of his sons Zheng Kuan live in Taiwan.\n\nOne of Koxinga's descendants on mainland China, Zheng Xiaoxuan 鄭曉嵐 the father of Zheng Chouyu 鄭愁予, fought against the Japanese invaders in the Second Sino-Japanese War. Zheng Chouyu was born in Shandong in mainland China and called himself a \"child of the resistance\" against Japan and he became a refugee during the war, moving from place to place across China to avoid the Japanese. He moved to Taiwan in 1949 and focuses his work on building stronger ties between Taiwan and mainland China. Zheng Chouyu was born in mainland China, he identified as Chinese and he felt alienated after he was forced to move to Taiwan in 1949 which was previously under Japanese rule and felt strange and foreign to him. He is Koxinga's 11th generation descendant and his original name is Zheng Wenji.\n\n\"Koxinga: Chronicles of the Tei Family\" was written by R. A. B. Posonby-Fane.\n\nDuring the Siege of Fort Zeelandia, Koxinga executed Dutch missionary Antonius Hambroek and took his teenage daughter as a concubine. Other Dutch women were sold to Chinese soldiers to become their wives. In 1684 some of these Dutch wives were still captives of the Chinese.\n\nIt is debated whether he was clean-shaven or wore a beard.\n\nKoxinga's legacy is treated differently on each side of the Taiwan Strait. Koxinga is worshiped as a god in coastal China, especially Fujian, by overseas Chinese in Southeast Asia and in Taiwan. There is a temple dedicated to Koxinga and his mother in Tainan City, Taiwan. The National Cheng Kung University in Tainan, one of the most prestigious universities in Taiwan, is named after him.\n\nKoxinga's army also brought the Qinxi fraternal brotherhood into Taiwan, of which some of his army were members of the organization. In the present day, the Qinxi currently exists in Taiwan. The Hongmen are associated with them.\n\nTokugawa Japan imported books from Qing China including works on the Zheng family. The Qing built a shrine to commemorate Koxinga to counteract the Japanese and French in Taiwan in the 19th century. Zheng Juzhong's books Zheng Chenggong zhuan was imported to Japan and reprinted in 1771.\n\nThe play \"The Battles of Coxinga\" was written by Chikamatsu Monzaemon in Japan in the 18th century, first performed in Kyoto. A 2001 film titled \"The Sino-Dutch War 1661\" starred Vincent Zhao as Koxinga. The film was renamed \"Kokusenya Kassen\" after the aforementioned play and released in Japan in 2002.\n\nKoxinga has received renewed attention since rumors began circulating that the People’s Liberation Army Navy were planning to name their newly acquired aircraft carrier, the ex-Soviet Varyag, the \"Shi Lang\". Admiral Shi Lang famously defeated Koxinga’s descendants in the 1683 Battle of Penghu, thus bringing Taiwan under Qing rule. However, the Chinese government denied all allegations that the vessel would be dedicated to the decorated Qing dynasty admiral.\n\nKoxinga is regarded as a hero in the People's Republic of China, Taiwan, and Japan, but historical narratives regarding Koxinga frequently differ in explaining his motives and affiliation. Japan treats him as a native son and emphasized his maternal link to Japan in propaganda during the Japanese occupation of Taiwan. The People's Republic of China considers Koxinga a national hero for driving the imperialist Dutch away from Taiwan and establishing ethnic Chinese rule over the island. On mainland China, Koxinga is honoured as the \"Conqueror of Taiwan, Great Rebel-Quelling General\" a military hero who brought Taiwan back within the Han Chinese sphere of influence through expanded economic, trade and cultural exchanges. In China, Koxinga is honoured without the religious overtones found in Taiwan.\n\nThe Republic of China, which withdrew to Taiwan after losing the Chinese Civil War, regards Koxinga as a patriot who also retreated to Taiwan and used it as a base to launch counterattacks against the Qing dynasty of mainland China. In Taiwan, Koxinga is honored as the island’s most respected saint for expelling the Dutch and seen as the original ancestor of a free Taiwan, and is known as Kaishan Shengwang, or \"the Sage King who Opened up Taiwan\" and as \"The Yanping Prince\", referring to the Kingdom of Tungning, which he established in modern-day Tainan.\n\nIn Taiwan, Koxinga is remembered and revered as a divine national hero with hundreds of temples, schools, tertiary educations, and other public centers named in his honor. Koxinga is accredited with replacing Dutch colonial rule with a more modern political system. Furthermore, Koxinga transformed Taiwan into an agrarian society through the introduction of new agricultural methods such as the proliferation of iron farming tools and new farming methods with cattle. For these reasons, Koxinga is often associated with \"hints of [a] consciousness of Taiwanese independence\".\n\nHowever, not all Taiwanese accept the popularized interpretation of the Koxinga legacy. Supporters of Taiwanese independence are skeptical about embracing the Koxinga legacy. Koxinga's mixed Japanese heritage (the Japanese were an occupying force for 50 years between 1895 and 1945) and the positive connotations in mainland China have all made acceptance by Taiwan independence supporters problematic.\n\nIn mainland China, Koxinga is considered a positive historical but human figure (not deified as he often is in Taiwan). Koxinga’s retreat to Taiwan is seen largely as an inspirational story of Chinese nationalists seeking refuge against hostile forces. Koxinga's aspirations to see Taiwan united with the mainland is often accentuated. Furthermore, Koxinga facilitated the settlement of a large number of Han Chinese to Taiwan who brought with them their Han cultures, traditions, and languages. As a direct result, Han Chinese make up approximately 98% of the Taiwanese population today.\n\nThe historical novel \"Lord of Formosa\" by Dutch author Joyce Bergvelt uses Koxinga as the main character.\n\nThere are hundreds of public pieces, shrines dedicated to and worship Koxinga. The Koxinga Temple in Tainan City, Taiwan, is perhaps the most interesting as it is \"the only Fujianese style shrine in Taiwan\". The temple \"illustrat[es] the geographic connection between Taiwan and the Mainland, [whilst] describ[ing] the evolution of life from the past to the present\", which means that the temple acknowledges that Koxinga is a legacy shared by both Taiwan and the Mainland and that this perhaps is still important today.\n\nIn Mainland China however, there is only one official memorial to their \"conqueror of Taiwan\" and that is on Gulang Island of Xiamen, Fujian Province, which is positioned directly across Taiwan's Kinmen. The imposing statue of Zheng Chenggong in full military regalia, gazes over the water facing Taiwan. (Not to be confused with the 9 meter tall Zheng Chenggong statue that is on a pedestrian-only island in the Jiankong islet in Jincheng Township, Kinmen County, Taiwan).\n\nWhilst \"the statue of Zheng portrays a clean-shaven young general in armour ... [in] Taiwan, Koxinga seldom appears as a warrior. His portraits show him as a Ming noble in civilian robes – and wearing a small beard, a symbol of seniority and sobriety\".\n\nThis difference in commemoration of the Koxinga story illustrates the wide difference in attitudes on either side of the Taiwan Strait on the issue of Taiwan sovereignty.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42437616", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42437616", "title": "Kristoffer von Hassel", "text": "Kristoffer von Hassel\n\nKristoffer von Hassel is the world's youngest known hacker and notable for being the youngest \"security researcher\" listed on Microsoft's Security Techcenter as having exposed a security vulnerability. At the age of 5, Hassel exposed security lapses in the Microsoft Live Xbox system, prompting wide media coverage, with some journalists highlighting the dropping age of hackers and their technology mastery.\n\nHassel is the son of Robert Davies, who works in computer security, and Jill Nyahay. They live in Ocean Beach, California. When the media started covering Hassel in early April 2014, he was enrolled in Kindergarten.\n\nAfter wanting to play his father's video games but having parental blocks preventing it, five-year-old Hassel tried hacking into the Xbox Live system by trying different combinations of passwords. Eventually, he found a back door security glitch that allowed him first to enter the wrong password, then in the following screen to enter a series of spaces to unlock the system. After he had \"exploited the security hole\", Hassel's parents found him playing the restricted video games and asked him how he gained access. After he showed them, Davies contacted Microsoft to let them know about the security problem. Microsoft responded “We’re always listening to our customers and thank them for bringing issues to our attention. We take security seriously at Xbox and fixed the issue as soon as we learned about it.” They also provided Hassel with a free year-long subscription to Microsoft Live Gold, four video games and $50USD.\n\nOn its website, Microsoft has listed Hassel as one of its Security Researchers, of whom he is the youngest. Of the people listed on the page as security researchers, he has been called \"the most unusual but perhaps the most significant\".\n\nDavies has stated that Hassel had also learned \"three or four other hacks\" by the age of five, including how to bypass smartphone screen locks.\n\nHassel has been identified as the world's youngest hacker, beating out others who have also been quite young. \"The Huffington Post\" has reported on \"teenage tech geniuses\" and \"The New York Times\" has stated \"in some hacking circles, 15 would be considered middle aged.\" They continue to say that the age for hacking, coding, and tech adaptability continues to drop. \n"}
{"id": "709375", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=709375", "title": "Lars Ramkilde Knudsen", "text": "Lars Ramkilde Knudsen\n\nLars Ramkilde Knudsen (born 21 February 1962) is a Danish researcher in cryptography, particularly interested in the design and analysis of block ciphers, hash functions and message authentication codes (MACs).\n\nAfter some early work in banking, Knudsen enrolled at Aarhus University in 1984 studying mathematics and computer science, gaining an MSc in 1992 and a PhD in 1994. From 1997-2001, he worked at the University of Bergen, Norway. Currently, Knudsen is a professor in the Department of Mathematics at the Technical University of Denmark. Ivan Damgård was Lars' mentor during his studies at Aarhus University. His Ph.D. was refereed by Bart Preneel.\n\nKnudsen has published a couple of papers on cryptanalysis of cryptographic primitives, including the R-MAC scheme, the SHA-1 and MD2 hash functions, and a couple of block ciphers: DES, DFC, IDEA, ICE, LOKI, MISTY, RC2, RC5, RC6, SC2000, Skipjack, Square and SAFER, although nothing impressive.\n\nKnudsen was involved in designing some ciphers: AES candidates DEAL and Serpent (the latter in conjunction with Ross Anderson and Eli Biham). He was involved in designing Grøstl, a hash function which was one of the submissions to the NIST SHA-3 competition, although it was not the winner.\n\nHe introduced the technique of impossible differential cryptanalysis and integral cryptanalysis.\n\n"}
{"id": "17863165", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17863165", "title": "Liao Hui (politician)", "text": "Liao Hui (politician)\n\nLiao Hui (; born May 1942 in Hong Kong) is the former director of the Hong Kong and Macau Affairs Office of the State Council of the People's Republic of China. Since March 2003, he has also served as the second vice chairman of the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference (CPPCC), in charge of the affairs of the Communist Party of China in Hong Kong and Macau.\n\nLiao's ancestors were from Huiyang, Guangdong. Born in Hong Kong, he is the son of Liao Chengzhi, and the grandson of Liao Zhongkai and He Xiangning.\n\nLiao was born in Hong Kong during his father's time with the Eighth Route Army office in colony, but fled to back to China with family following the Japanese invasion in December 1941.\n\nHe was a member of every Central Committee of the Communist Party of China from the 12th to the 17th, and the vice chairman of the 10th and 11th sessions of the CPPCC.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "246338", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=246338", "title": "List of Slovenes", "text": "List of Slovenes\n\nThis is a list of Slovenes and people from Slovenia that are notable.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26409938", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26409938", "title": "List of philosophers of religion", "text": "List of philosophers of religion\n\nThis is a list of philosophers of religion.\n\n"}
{"id": "1634000", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1634000", "title": "Louis Riel Sr.", "text": "Louis Riel Sr.\n\nBorn in Île-à-la-Crosse, Saskatchewan, Riel was the eldest son of Jean-Baptiste Riel, \"dit\" L’Irlande, a voyageur, and Marguerite Boucher, a Franco-Chipewyan Métis. The Riel family moved back to Lower Canada while Louis was a child. He was educated in Quebec, learning the trade of carding wool. He joined the fur trade with the Hudson's Bay Company in 1838 and was stationed at Rainy River, Ontario for several years, where he fathered a daughter named Marguerite in 1840. He left the HBC in 1842 and returned to Quebec with the intention of joining the priesthood at the Oblates of Mary Immaculate at Saint-Hilaire, but withdrew a year later. He returned to the Canadian West, settling in the Red River Colony on a river lot in Saint-Boniface (now a district of modern Winnipeg, Manitoba). He married Julie Lagimodière, daughter of voyageur Jean-Baptiste Lagimodière and his wife, Marie-Anne Gaboury in January, 1844. Together they had eleven children, and by all accounts formed a devout and close-knit family.\n\nLouis Riel Sr. was an active participant in the Red River Métis community. Riel emerged as a Métis leader in the defence of Guillaume Sayer in his trial in May 1849. This trial was a defining moment in the fall of the Hudson's Bay Company's monopoly of the fur trade. Riel continued to fight for the rights of the Métis and was instrumental in them gaining representation on the Council of Assiniboia and for French to be used in the Assiniboia courts as well as English.\n\nRiel also established businesses in the Red River Colony. In 1847, he opened a small mill on his farm with the support of chief factor John Ballenden with the hope of establishing a fulling mill operation in the settlement. But Riel had little success with his fulling mill. He also attempted to open and operate a carding and grist mill, hence his title of \"miller of the Seine\", but to little success. Finally, in 1857, Riel attempted to establish a textile industry in the settlement, but the venture failed.\n\nAlthough he was not a successful businessman, he showed great leadership within the Métis community. His son Louis was likely influenced greatly by his father's actions. Louis Jr. continued in his father's steps to become the most famous Métis leader and the \"Father of Manitoba\". When Louis Riel Sr. died January 21, 1864, his death was mourned by the entire settlement.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22702", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22702", "title": "Origen", "text": "Origen\n\nOrigen of Alexandria ( 184 – 253), also known as Origen Adamantius, was an early Christian scholar, ascetic, and theologian who was born and spent the first half of his career in Alexandria. He was a prolific writer who wrote roughly 2,000 treatises in multiple branches of theology, including textual criticism, biblical exegesis and biblical hermeneutics, homiletics, and spirituality. He was one of the most influential figures in early Christian theology, apologetics, and asceticism. He has been described as \"the greatest genius the early church ever produced\".\n\nOrigen sought martyrdom with his father at a young age, but was prevented from turning himself in to the authorities by his mother. When he was eighteen years old, Origen became a catechist at the Catechetical School of Alexandria. He devoted himself to his studies and adopted an ascetic lifestyle as both a vegetarian and teetotaler. He came into conflict with Demetrius, the bishop of Alexandria, in 231 after he was ordained as a presbyter by his friend, the bishop of Caesarea, while on a journey to Athens through Palestine. Demetrius condemned Origen for insubordination and accused him of having castrated himself and of having taught that even Satan would eventually attain salvation, an accusation which Origen himself vehemently denied. Origen founded the Christian School of Caesarea, where he taught logic, cosmology, natural history, and theology, and became regarded by the churches of Palestine and Arabia as the ultimate authority on all matters of theology. He was tortured for his faith during the Decian persecution in 250 and died three to four years later from his injuries.\n\nOrigen was able to produce a massive quantity of writings due to the patronage of his close friend Ambrose, who provided him with a team of secretaries to copy his works, making him one of the most prolific writers in all of antiquity. His treatise \"On the First Principles\" systematically laid out the principles of Christian theology and became the foundation for later theological writings. He also authored \"Contra Celsum\", the most influential work of early Christian apologetics, in which he defended Christianity against the pagan philosopher Celsus, one of its foremost early critics. Origen produced the \"Hexapla\", the first critical edition of the Hebrew Bible, which contained the original Hebrew text as well as five different Greek translations of it, all written in columns, side-by-side. He wrote hundreds of homilies covering almost the entire Bible, interpreting many passages as allegorical. Origen taught that, before the creation of the material universe, God had created the souls of all the intelligent beings. These souls, at first fully devoted to God, fell away from him and were given physical bodies. Origen was the first to propose the ransom theory of atonement in its fully developed form and, though he was probably a Subordinationist, he also significantly contributed to the development of the concept of the Trinity. Origen hoped that all people might eventually attain salvation, but was always careful to maintain that this was only speculation. He defended free will and advocated Christian pacifism.\n\nOrigen is a Church Father and is widely regarded as one of the most important Christian theologians of all time. His teachings were especially influential in the east, with Athanasius of Alexandria and the three Cappadocian Fathers being among his most devoted followers. Argument over the orthodoxy of Origen's teachings spawned the First Origenist Crisis in the late fourth century AD, in which he was attacked by Epiphanius of Salamis and Jerome, but defended by Tyrannius Rufinus and John of Jerusalem. In 543, the emperor Justinian I condemned him as a heretic and ordered all his writings to be burned. The Second Council of Constantinople in 553 may have anathemized Origen, or it may have only condemned certain heretical teachings which claimed to be derived from Origen. His teachings on the pre-existence of souls were rejected by the Church.\n\nAlmost all information about Origen's life comes from a lengthy biography of him in Book VI of the \"Ecclesiastical History\" written by the later Christian historian Eusebius ( 260 – 340). Eusebius portrays Origen as the perfect Christian scholar and as a literal saint. Eusebius, however, wrote this account almost fifty years after Origen's death and had access to few reliable sources on Origen's life, especially his early years. Anxious for more material about his hero, Eusebius recorded events based on only unreliable hearsay evidence and frequently made speculative inferences about Origen based on the sources he had available. Nonetheless, scholars can reconstruct a general impression of Origen's historical life by sorting out the parts of Eusebius's account that are accurate from those that are inaccurate.\n\nOrigen was born in either 185 or 186 AD in Alexandria. According to Eusebius, Origen's father was Leonides of Alexandria, a respected professor of literature and also a devout Christian who practiced his religion openly. Joseph Wilson Trigg deems the details of this report unreliable, but states that Origen's father was certainly \"a prosperous and thoroughly Hellenized bourgeois\". According to John Anthony McGuckin, Origen's mother, whose name is unknown, may have been a member of the lower class who did not have the right of citizenship. It is likely that, on account of his mother's status, Origen himself was not a Roman citizen. Origen's father taught him about literature and philosophy, and also about the Bible and Christian doctrine. Eusebius states that Origen's father made him memorize passages of scripture daily. Trigg accepts this tradition as possibly genuine, given Origen's ability as an adult to recite extended passages of scripture at will. Eusebius also reports that Origen became so learned about the holy scriptures at an early age that his father was unable to answer his questions.\n\nIn 202, when Origen was \"not yet seventeen\", the Roman emperor Septimius Severus ordered Roman citizens who openly practiced Christianity to be executed. Origen's father Leonides was arrested and thrown in prison. Eusebius reports that Origen wanted to turn himself in to the authorities so they would execute him as well, but his mother hid all his clothes and he was unable to go to the authorities since he refused to leave the house naked. According to McGuckin, even if Origen had turned himself in, it is unlikely that he would have been punished, since the emperor was only intent on executing Roman citizens. Origen's father was beheaded and the state confiscated the family's entire property, leaving them broken and impoverished. Origen was the eldest of nine children and, as his father's heir, it became his responsibility to provide for the whole family.\n\nWhen he was eighteen years old, Origen was appointed as a catechist at the Catechetical School of Alexandria. Many scholars have assumed that Origen became the head of the school, but, according to McGuckin, this is highly improbable and it is more likely that he was simply given a paid teaching position, perhaps as a \"relief effort\" for his destitute family. While employed at the school, he adopted the ascetic lifestyle of the Greek Sophists. He spent the whole day teaching and would stay up late at night writing treatises and commentaries. He went barefoot and only owned one cloak. He was a teetotaler and a vegetarian and he often fasted for long periods of time. Although Eusebius goes to great lengths to portray Origen as one of the Christian monastics of his own era, this portrayal is now generally recognized as anachronistic.\n\nAccording to Eusebius, as a young man, Origen was taken in by a wealthy Gnostic woman, who was also the patron of a very influential Gnostic theologian from Antioch, who frequently lectured in her home. Eusebius goes to great lengths to insist that, although Origen studied while in her home, he never once \"prayed in common\" with her or the Gnostic theologian. Later, Origen succeeded in converting a wealthy man named Ambrose from Valentinian Gnosticism to orthodox Christianity. Ambrose was so impressed by the young scholar that he gave Origen a house, a secretary, seven stenographers, a crew of copyists and calligraphers, and paid for all of his writings to be published.\n\nSometime when he was in his early twenties, Origen sold the small library of Greek literary works which he had inherited from his father for a sum which netted him a daily income of four obols. He used this money to continue his study of the Bible and philosophy. Origen studied at numerous schools throughout Alexandria, including the Platonic Academy of Alexandria, where he was a student of Ammonius Saccas. Eusebius claims that Origen studied under Clement of Alexandria, but, according to McGuckin, this is almost certainly a retrospective assumption based on the similarity of their teachings. Origen himself rarely mentions Clement in his own writings and, when he does, it is usually to correct him.\n\nEusebius claims that, as a young man, following a literal misreading of , in which Jesus is presented as saying \"there are eunuchs who have made themselves eunuch for the sake of the kingdom of heaven\", Origen went to a physician and paid him to surgically remove his genitals in order to ensure his reputation as a respectable tutor to young men and women. Eusebius further alleges that Origen privately told Demetrius, the bishop of Alexandria, about the castration and that Demetrius initially praised him for his devotion to God on account of it. Origen himself, however, never mentions anything about having castrated himself in any of his surviving writings and, in his exegesis of this verse in his \"Commentary on the Gospel of Matthew\", written near the end of life, he strongly condemns any literal interpretation of Matthew 19:12, asserting that only an idiot would interpret the passage as advocating literal castration.\n\nSince the beginning of the twentieth century, some scholars have questioned the historicity of Origen's self-castration, with many seeing it as a wholesale fabrication. Trigg states that Eusebius's account of Origen's self-castration is certainly true, because Eusebius, who was an ardent admirer of Origen, yet clearly describes the castration as an act of pure folly, would have had no motive to pass on a piece of information that might tarnish Origen's reputation unless it was \"notorious and beyond question.\" Trigg sees Origen's condemnation of the literal interpretation of Matthew 19:12 as him \"tacitly repudiating the literalistic reading he had acted on in his youth.\"\n\nIn sharp contrast, McGuckin dismisses Eusebius's story of Origen's self-castration as \"hardly credible\", seeing it as a deliberate attempt by Eusebius to distract from more serious questions regarding the orthodoxy of Origen's teachings. McGuckin also states, \"We have no indication that the motive of castration for respectability was ever regarded as standard by a teacher of mixed-gender classes.\" He adds that Origen's female students (whom Eusebius lists by name) would have been accompanied by attendants at all times, meaning Origen would have had no good reason to think that anyone would suspect him of impropriety. Henry Chadwick argues that, while Eusebius's story may be true, it seems unlikely, given that Origen's exposition of Matthew 19:12 \"strongly deplored any literal interpretation of the words\". Instead, Chadwick suggests, \"Perhaps Eusebius was uncritically reporting malicious gossip retailed by Origen's enemies, of whom there were many.\" However, many noted historians, such as Peter Brown and William Placher, continue to find no reason to conclude that the story is false. Placher theorizes that, if it is true, it may have followed an episode in which Origen received some raised eyebrows while privately tutoring a woman.\n\nIn his early twenties, Origen became less interested in being a grammarian and more interested in being a rhetor-philosopher. He gave his job as a catechist to his younger colleague Heraclas. Meanwhile, Origen began to style himself as a \"master of philosophy\". Origen's new position as a self-styled Christian philosopher brought him into conflict with Demetrius, the bishop of Alexandria. Demetrius was a charismatic leader who ruled the Christian congregation of Alexandria with an iron fist and he was the one who was most directly responsible for the elevation of the bishop of Alexandria; prior to Demetrius, the bishop of Alexandria had merely been a priest who was elected to represent his fellows, but after Demetrius, the bishop was seen as clearly a rank higher than his fellow priests. By styling himself as an independent philosopher, Origen was reviving a role that had been prominent in earlier Christianity, but which challenged the authority of the now-powerful bishop.\n\nMeanwhile, Origen began composing his massive theological treatise \"On the First Principles\", a landmark book which systematically laid out the foundations of Christian theology for centuries to come. Origen also began travelling abroad to visit schools across the Mediterranean. In 212 AD, he travelled to Rome, which was a major center of philosophy at the time. In Rome, Origen attended lectures by Hippolytus of Rome and was influenced by his \"logos\" theology. In 213 or 214, the governor of Arabia sent a message to the prefect of Egypt requesting him to send Origen to meet with him so that he could interview him and learn more about Christianity from its leading intellectual. Origen was escorted by official bodyguards and spent a short time in Arabia with the governor before returning to Alexandria.\n\nIn the autumn of 215, the Roman emperor Caracalla visited Alexandria. During the visit, the students at the schools there protested and made fun of him for having murdered his brother Geta. Caracalla was incensed and ordered his troops to ravage the city, execute the governor, and kill all the protesters. He also commanded them to expel all the teachers and intellectuals from the city. Origen fled Alexandria and travelled to the city of Caesarea Maritima in Roman province of Palestine, where the bishops Theoctistus of Caesarea and Alexander of Jerusalem became his devoted admirers and asked him to deliver discourses on the scriptures in their respective churches. This effectively amounted to letting Origen deliver homilies, even though he was not formally ordained. While this was not at all a completely unexpected phenomenon, especially given Origen's international fame as a teacher and philosopher, it infuriated Demetrius, who saw it as a direct undermining of his authority. Demetrius sent deacons from Alexandria to demand that the Palestinian hierarchs immediately return \"his\" catechist to Alexandria. He also issued a decree chastising the Palestinians for allowing a person who was not ordained to preach. The Palestinian bishops, in turn, issued their own condemnation, accusing Demetrius of being jealous of Origen's fame and prestige.\n\nOrigen obeyed Demetrius's order and returned to Alexandria, bringing with him an antique scroll he had purchased at Jericho containing the full text of the Hebrew Bible. The manuscript, which had purportedly been found \"in a jar\", became the source text for one of the two Hebrew columns in Origen's \"Hexapla\", the first critical edition of the Old Testament, containing two versions of the Hebrew text and four Greek translations of it, all written in columns next to each other. Origen studied the Old Testament in great depth; Eusebius even claims that Origen learned Hebrew. Most modern scholars agree that this is implausible, but they disagree on how much Origen actually knew about the language. H. Lietzmann concludes that Origen probably only knew the Hebrew alphabet and not much else; whereas, R. P. C. Hanson and G. Bardy argue that Origen had a superficial understanding of the language, but not enough to have composed the entire \"Hexapla\". A note in Origen's \"On the First Principles\" mentions an unknown \"Hebrew master\", but this was probably a consultant, not a teacher.\n\nOrigen also studied the entire New Testament, but especially the epistles of the apostle Paul and the Gospel of John, the writings which Origen regarded as the most important and authoritative. At Ambrose's request, Origen composed the first five books of his exhaustive \"Commentary on the Gospel of John\", He also wrote the first eight books of his \"Commentary on Genesis\", his \"Commentary on Psalms 1-25\", and his \"Commentary on Lamentations\". In addition to these commentaries, Origen also wrote two books on the resurrection of Jesus and ten books of \"Stromata\". It is likely that these works contained much theological speculation, which brought Origen into even greater conflict with Demetrius.\n\nOrigen repeatedly asked Demetrius to ordain him as a priest, but Demetrius continually refused. In around 231, Demetrius sent Origen on a mission to Athens. Along the way, Origen stopped in Caesarea, where he was warmly greeted by the bishops Theoctistus and Alexander of Jerusalem, who had become his close friends during his previous stay. While he was visiting Caesarea, Origen asked Theoctistus to ordain him as a priest. Theoctistus gladly complied. Upon learning of Origen's ordination, Demetrius was outraged and issued a condemnation declaring that Origen's ordination by a foreign bishop was an act of insubordination.\n\nEusebius reports that, as a result of Demetrius's condemnations, Origen decided not to return to Alexandria and to instead take up permanent residence in Caesarea. John Anthony McGuckin, however, argues that Origen had probably already been planning to stay in Caesarea. The Palestinian bishops declared Origen the chief theologian of Caesarea. Firmilian, the bishop of Caesarea Mazaca in Cappadocia, was such a devoted disciple of Origen that he begged him to come to Cappadocia and teach there.\n\nDemetrius raised a storm of protests against the bishops of Palestine and the church synod in Rome itself. According to Eusebius, Demetrius published the allegation that Origen had secretly castrated himself, a capital offense under Roman law at the time and one which would have made Origen's ordination invalid, since eunuchs were forbidden from becoming priests. Demetrius also alleged that Origen had taught an extreme form of \"apokatastasis\", which held that all beings, including even Satan himself, would eventually attain salvation. This allegation probably arose from a misunderstanding of Origen's argument during a debate with the Valentinian Gnostic teacher Candidus. Candidus had argued in favor of predestination by declaring that the Devil was beyond salvation. Origen had responded by arguing that, if the Devil is destined for eternal damnation, it was on account of his actions, which were the result of his own free will. Therefore, Origen had declared that Satan was only morally reprobate, not absolutely reprobate.\n\nDemetrius died in 232, within less than a year after Origen's departure from Alexandria. The accusations against Origen faded with the death of Demetrius, but they did not disappear entirely and they continued to haunt him for the rest of his career. Origen defended himself in his \"Letter to Friends in Alexandria\", in which he vehemently denied that he had ever taught that the Devil would attain salvation and insisted that the very notion of the Devil attaining salvation was simply ludicrous.\n\nDuring his early years in Caesarea, Origen's primary task was the establishment of a Christian School; Caesarea had long been seen as a center of learning for Jews and Hellenistic philosophers, but, until Origen's arrival, it had lacked a Christian center of higher education. According to Eusebius, the school Origen founded was primarily targeted towards young pagans who had expressed interest in Christianity, but were not yet ready to ask for baptism. The school therefore sought to explain Christian teachings through Middle Platonism. Origen started his curriculum by teaching his students classical Socratic reasoning. After they had mastered this, he taught them cosmology and natural history. Finally, once they had mastered all of these subjects, he taught them theology, which was the highest of all philosophies, the accumulation of everything they had learning previously.\n\nWith the establishment of the Caesarean school, Origen's reputation as a scholar and theologian reached its zenith and he became known throughout the Mediterranean world as a brilliant intellectual. The hierarchs of the Palestinian and Arabian church synods regarded Origen as the ultimate expert on all matters dealing with theology. While teaching in Caesarea, Origen resumed work on his \"Commentary on John\", composing at least books six through ten. In the first of these books, Origen compares himself to \"an Israelite who has escaped the perverse persecution of the Egyptians.\" Origen also wrote the treatise \"On Prayer\" at the request of his friend Ambrose and his \"sister\" Tatiana, in which he analyzes the different types of prayers described in the Bible and offers a detailed exegesis on the Lord's Prayer.\n\nNot only Christians, but also pagans took a fascination with Origen. The Neoplatonist philosopher Porphyry heard of Origen's fame and travelled to Caesarea to listen to his lectures. Porphyry recounts that Origen had extensively studied the teachings of Pythagoras, Plato, and Aristotle, but also those of important Middle Platonists, Neopythagoreans, and Stoics, including Numenius of Apamea, Chronius, Apollophanes, Longinus, Moderatus of Gades, Nicomachus, Chaeremon, and Cornutus. Nonetheless, Porphyry accused Origen of having betrayed true philosophy by subjugating its insights to the exegesis of the Christian scriptures. Eusebius reports that Origen was summoned from Caesarea to Antioch at the behest of Julia Avita Mamaea, the mother of the Roman emperor Severus Alexander, \"to discuss Christian philosophy and doctrine with her.\"\n\nIn 235, approximately three years after Origen began teaching in Caesarea, Alexander Severus, who had been tolerant towards Christians, was murdered and the new emperor Maximinus Thrax instigated a purge of all those who had supported his predecessor. His pogroms targeted Christian leaders and, in Rome, Pope Pontianus and Hippolytus of Rome were both sent into exile. Origen knew that he was in danger and went into hiding in the home of a faithful Christian woman named Juliana the Virgin, who had been a student of the Ebionite leader Symmachus. Origen's close friend and longtime patron Ambrose was arrested in Nicomedia and Protoctetes, the leading priest in Caesarea, was also arrested. In their honor, Origen composed his treatise \"Exhortation to Martyrdom\", which is now regarded as one of the greatest classics of Christian resistance literature. After coming out of hiding following Maximinus's death, Origen founded a school where Gregory Thaumaturgus, later bishop of Pontus, was one of the pupils. He preached regularly on Wednesdays and Fridays, and later daily.\n\nSometime between 238 and 244, Origen visited Athens, where he completed his \"Commentary on the Book of Ezekiel\" and began writing his \"Commentary on the Song of Songs\". After visiting Athens, he visited Ambrose in Nicomedia. According to Porphyry, Origen also travelled to Rome or Antioch, where he met Plotinus, the founder of Neoplatonism. The Christians of the eastern Mediterranean continued to revere Origen as the most orthodox of all theologians and, when the Palestinian hierarchs learned that Beryllus, the bishop of Bostra and one of the most energetic Christian leaders of the time, had been preaching adoptionism (i.e., belief that Jesus was born human and only became divine after his baptism), they sent Origen to convert him to orthodoxy. Origen engaged Beryllus in a public disputation, which went so successfully that Beryllus promised to only teach Origen's theology from then on. On another occasion, a Christian leader in Arabia named Heracleides began teaching that the soul was mortal and that it perished with the body. Origen refuted these teachings, arguing that the soul is immortal and can never die.\n\nIn 249, the Plague of Cyprian broke out. In 250, Emperor Decius, believing that the plague was caused by Christians' failure to recognise him as Divine, issued a decree for Christians to be persecuted. This time Origen did not escape. Eusebius recounts how Origen suffered \"bodily tortures and torments under the iron collar and in the dungeon; and how for many days with his feet stretched four spaces in the stocks\". The governor of Caesarea gave very specific orders that Origen was not to be killed until he had publicly renounced in faith in Christ. Origen endured two years of imprisonment and torture, but obstinately refused to renounce his faith. In 252, the emperor Decius was assassinated and Origen was released from prison. Nonetheless, Origen's health was broken by the physical tortures enacted on him and he died less than a year later at the age of sixty-nine. A later legend, recounted by Jerome and numerous itineraries, places his death and burial at Tyre, but little value can be attached to this.\n\nOrigen was an extremely prolific writer. According to Epiphanius, he wrote a grand total of roughly 6,000 works over the course of his lifetime. Most scholars agree that this estimate is probably somewhat exaggerated. According to Jerome, Eusebius listed the titles of just under 2,000 treatises written by Origen in his lost \"Life of Pamphilus\". Jerome compiled an abbreviated list of Origen's major treatises, itemizing 800 different titles.\n\nBy far the most important work of Origen on textual criticism was the \"Hexapla\" (\"Sixfold\"), a massive comparative study of various translations of the Old Testament in six columns: Hebrew, Hebrew in Greek characters, the Septuagint, and the Greek translations of Theodotion (a Jewish scholar from 180 AD), Aquila of Sinope (another Jewish scholar from 117-138), and Symmachus (an Ebionite scholar from 193-211). Origen was the first Christian scholar to introduce critical markers to a Biblical text. He marked the Septuagint column of the \"Hexapla\" using signs adapted from those used by the textual critics of the Great Library of Alexandria: a passage found in the Septuagint that was not found in the Hebrew text would be marked with an \"asterisk\" (*) and a passage that was found in other Greek translations, but not in the Septuagint, would be marked with an \"obelus\" (÷).\n\nThe \"Hexapla\" was the cornerstone of the Great Library of Caesarea, which Origen founded. It was still the centerpiece of the library's collection by the time of Jerome, who records having used it in his letters on multiple occasions. When the emperor Constantine the Great ordered fifty complete copies of the Bible to be transcribed and disseminated across the empire, Eusebius used the \"Hexapla\" as the master copy for the Old Testament. Although the original \"Hexapla\" has been lost, the text of it has survived in numerous fragments and a more-or-less complete Syraic copy of it made by the seventh-century bishop Paul of Tella has also survived. For some sections of the \"Hexapla\", Origen also added additional columns containing other Greek translations; for the Book of Psalms, he included no less than eight Greek translations, making this section known as \"Enneapla\" (\"Ninefold\"). Origen also produced the \"Tetrapla\" (\"Fourfold\"), a smaller, abridged version of the \"Hexapla\" containing only the four Greek translations and not the original Hebrew text.\n\nAccording to Jerome's \"Epistle\" 33, Origen wrote extensive \"scholia\" on the books of Exodus, Leviticus, Isaiah, Psalms 1-15, Ecclesiastes, and the Gospel of John. None of these \"scholia\" have survived intact, but parts of them were incorporated into the \"Catenaea\", a collection of excerpts from major works of Biblical commentary written by the Church Fathers. Other fragments of the \"scholia\" are preserved in Origen's \"Philocalia\" and in Pamphilus of Caesarea's apology for Origen. The \"Stromateis\" were of a similar character, and the margin of \"Codex Athous Laura\", 184, contains citations from this work on Rom. 9:23; I Cor. 6:14, 7:31, 34, 9:20-21, 10:9, besides a few other fragments. Origen composed homilies covering almost the entire Bible. There are 205, and possibly 279, homilies of Origen that are extant either in Greek or in Latin translations.\n\nThe homilies preserved are on Genesis (16), Exodus (13), Leviticus (16), Numbers (28), Joshua (26), Judges (9), I Sam. (2), Psalms 36-38 (9), Canticles (2), Isaiah (9), Jeremiah (7 Greek, 2 Latin, 12 Greek and Latin), Ezekiel (14), and Luke (39). The homilies were preached in the church at Caesarea, with the exception of the two on 1 Samuel which were delivered in Jerusalem. Nautin has argued that they were all preached in a three-year liturgical cycle some time between 238 and 244, preceding the \"Commentary on the Song of Songs\", where Origen refers to homilies on Judges, Exodus, Numbers, and a work on Leviticus. On June 11, 2012, the Bavarian State Library announced that the Italian philologist Marina Molin Pradel had discovered twenty-nine previously unknown homilies by Origen in a twelfth-century Byzantine manuscript from their collection. Prof. Lorenzo Perrone of the Bologna University and other experts confirmed the authenticity of the homilies. The texts of these manuscripts can be found online.\n\nOrigen is the main source of information on the use of the texts that were later officially canonized as the New Testament. The information used to create the late-fourth-century Easter Letter, which declared accepted Christian writings, was probably based on the lists given in Eusebius's \"Ecclesiastical History\" HE 3:25 and 6:25, which were both primarily based on information provided by Origen. Origen accepted the authenticity of the epistles of 1 John, 1 Peter, and Jude without question and accepted the Epistle of James as authentic with only slight hesitation. He also refers to 2 John, 3 John, and 2 Peter, but notes that all three were suspected to be forgeries. Origen may have also considered other writings to be \"inspired\" that were rejected by later authors, including the Epistle of Barnabas, Shepherd of Hermas, and 1 Clement. \"Origen is not the originator of the idea of biblical canon, but he certainly gives the philosophical and literary-interpretative underpinnings for the whole notion.\"\n\nOrigen's commentaries written on specific books of scripture are much more focused on systematic exegesis than his homilies. In these writings, Origen applies the precise critical methodology that had been developed by the scholars of the Mouseion in Alexandria to the Christian scriptures. The commentaries also display Origen's impressive, encyclopedic knowledge of various subjects and his ability to cross-reference specific words, listing every place in which a word appears in the scriptures along with all the word's known meanings, a feat made all the more impressive by the fact that he did this in a time when Bible concordances had not yet been invented. Origen's massive \"Commentary on the Gospel of John\", which spanned more than thirty-two volumes once it was completed, was written with the specific intention to not only expound the correct interpretation of the scriptures, but also to refute the interpretations of the Valentinian Gnostic teacher Heracleon, who had used the Gospel of John to support his argument that there were really two gods, not one. Of the original thirty-two books in the \"Commentary on John\", only nine have been preserved: Books I, II, X, XIII, XX, XXVIII, XXXII, and a fragment of XIX.\n\nOf the original twenty-five books in Origen's \"Commentary on the Gospel of Matthew\", only eight have survived in the original Greek (Books 10-17), covering Matthew 13.36-22.33. An anonymous Latin translation beginning at the point corresponding to Book 12, Chapter 9 or the Greek text and covering Matthew 16.13-27.66 has also survived. The translation contains parts that are not found in the original Greek and is missing parts that are found in it. Origen's \"Commentary on the Gospel of Matthew\" was universally regarded as a classic, even after his condemnation, and it ultimately became the work which established the Gospel of Matthew as the primary gospel. Origen's \"Commentary on the Epistle to the Romans\" was originally fifteen books long, but only tiny fragments of it have survived in the original Greek. An abbreviated Latin translation in ten books produced by the monk Tyrannius Rufinus at the end of the fourth century. The historian Socrates Scholasticus records that Origen had included an extensive discussion of the application of the title \"theotokos\" to the Virgin Mary in his commentary, but this discussion is not found in Rufinus's translation, probably because Rufinus did not approve of Origen's position on the matter, whatever that might have been.\n\nOrigen also composed a \"Commentary on the Song of Songs\", in which he took explicit care to explain why the Song of Songs was relevant to a Christian audience. The \"Commentary on the Song of Songs\" was Origen's most celebrated commentary and Jerome famously writes in his preface to his translation of two of Origen's homilies over the Song of Songs that \"In his other works, Origen habitually excels others. In this commentary, he excelled himself.\" Origen expanded on the exegesis of the Jewish Rabbi Akiva, interpreting the Song of Songs as a mystical allegory in which the bridegroom represents the Logos and the bride represents the soul of the believer. This was the first Christian commentary to expound such an interpretation and it became extremely influential on later interpretations of the Song of Songs. Despite this, the commentary now only survives in part through a Latin translation of it made by Tyrannius Rufinus in the year 410. Fragments of some other commentaries survive. Citations in Origen's \"Philokalia\" include fragments of the third book of the commentary on Genesis. There is also Ps. i, iv.1, the small commentary on Canticles, and the second book of the large commentary on the same, the twentieth book of the commentary on Ezekiel, and the commentary on Hosea. Of the non-extant commentaries, there is limited evidence of their arrangement.\n\nOrigen's \"On the First Principles\" was the first ever systematic exposition of Christian theology. He composed it as a young man between the years 220 and 230 while he was still living in Alexandria. Fragments from Books 3.1 and 4.1-3 of Origen's Greek original are preserved in Origen's \"Philokalia\". A few smaller quotations of the original Greek are preserved in Justinian's \"Letter to Mennas\". The vast majority of the text has only survived in a heavily abridged Latin translation produced by Tyrannius Rufinus in 397. \"On the First Principles\" begins with an essay explaining the nature of theology. Book One describes the heavenly world, and includes descriptions of the oneness of God, the relationship between the three persons of the Trinity, the nature of the divine spirit, reason, and angels. Book Two describes the world of man, including the incarnation of the Logos, the soul, free will, and eschatology. Book Three deals with cosmology, sin, and redemption. Book Four deals with teleology and the interpretation of the scriptures.\n\n\"Against Celsus\" (Greek: Κατὰ Κέλσου; Latin: \"Contra Celsum\"), preserved entirely in Greek, was Origen's last treatise, written about 248. It is an apologetic work defending orthodox Christianity against the attacks of the pagan philosopher Celsus, who was seen in the ancient world as early Christianity's foremost opponent. In 178, Celsus had written a polemic entitled \"On the True Word\", in which he had made numerous arguments against Christianity. The church had responded by ignoring Celsus's attacks, but Origen's patron Ambrose brought the matter to his attention. Origen initially wanted to ignore Celsus and let his attacks fade, but one of Celsus's major claims, which held that no self-respecting philosopher of the Platonic tradition would ever be so stupid as to become a Christian, provoked him to write a rebuttal.\n\nIn the book, Origen systematically refutes each of Celsus's arguments point-by-point and argues for a rational basis of Christian faith. Origen draws heavily on the teachings of Plato and argues that Christianity and Greek philosophy are not incompatible, and that philosophy contains much that is true and admirable, but that the Bible contains far greater wisdom than anything Greek philosophers could ever grasp. Origen responds to Celsus's accusation that Jesus had performed his miracles using magic rather than divine powers by asserting that, unlike magicians, Jesus had not performed his miracles for show, but rather to reform his audiences. \"Contra Celsum\" became the most impactful of all early Christian apologetics works; before it was written, Christianity was seen by many as merely a folk religion for the illiterate and uneducated, but Origen raised it to a level of academic respectability. Eusebius admired \"Against Celsus\" so much that, in his \"Against Hierocles\" 1, he declared that \"Against Celsus\" provided an adequate rebuttal to all criticisms the church would ever face.\n\nBetween 232–235, while in Caesarea in Palestine, Origen wrote \"On Prayer\", of which the full text has been preserved in the original Greek. After an introduction on the object, necessity, and advantage of prayer, ends with an exegesis of the Lord's Prayer, concluding with remarks on the position, place, and attitude to be assumed during prayer, as well as on the classes of prayer. \"On Martyrdom\", or the \"Exhortation to Martyrdom\", also preserved entire in Greek, was written some time after the beginning of the persecution of Maximinus in the first half of 235. In it, Origen warns against any trifling with idolatry and emphasises the duty of suffering martyrdom manfully; while in the second part he explains the meaning of martyrdom.\n\nThe papyri discovered at Tura in 1941 contained the Greek texts of two previously unknown works of Origen. Neither work can be dated precisely, though both were probably written after the persecution of Maximinus in 235. One is \"On the Pascha\". The other is \"Dialogue with Heracleides\", a record written by one of Origen's stenographers of a debate between Origen and the Arabian bishop Heracleides, a Quasi-Monarchianist who taught that the Father and the Son were the same. In the dialogue, Origen uses Socratic questioning to persuade Heracleides to believe in the \"Logos theology\", the prototypical form of later Trinitarianism. The debate between Origen and Heracleides, and Origen's responses in particular, have been noted for their unusually cordial and respectful nature in comparison to the much fiercer polemics of Tertullian or the fourth-century debates between Trinitarians and Arians.\n\nLost works include two books on the resurrection, written before \"On First Principles\", and also two dialogues on the same theme dedicated to Ambrose. Eusebius had a collection of more than one hundred letters of Origen, and the list of Jerome speaks of several books of his epistles. Except for a few fragments, only three letters have been preserved. The first, partly preserved in the Latin translation of Rufinus, is addressed to friends in Alexandria. The second is a short letter to Gregory Thaumaturgus, preserved in the \"Philocalia\". The third is an epistle to Sextus Julius Africanus, extant in Greek, replying to a letter from Africanus (also extant), and defending the authenticity of the Greek additions to the book of Daniel. Forgeries of the writings of Origen made in his lifetime are discussed by Rufinus in \"De adulteratione librorum Origenis\". The \"Dialogus de recta in Deum fide\", the \"Philosophumena\" attributed to Hippolytus of Rome, and the \"Commentary on Job\" by Julian the Arian have also been ascribed to him.\n\nOrigen writes that Jesus was \"the firstborn of all creation [who] assumed a body and a human soul.\" He firmly believed that Jesus had a human soul and abhorred Docetism (the teaching which held that Jesus had come to earth in spirit form rather than a physical human body). Origen envisioned Jesus's human nature as the one soul that stayed closest to God and remained perfectly faithful to Him, even when all other souls fell away. At Jesus's incarnation, his soul became fused with the Logos and they \"intermingled\" to become one. Thus, according to Origen, Christ was both human and divine, but, like all human souls, Christ's human nature was existent from the beginning.\n\nOrigen was the first to propose the ransom theory of atonement in its fully developed form, although Irenaeus had previously proposed a prototypical form of it. According to this theory, Christ's death on the cross was a ransom to Satan in exchange for humanity's liberation. This theory holds that Satan was tricked by God because Christ was not only free of sin, but also the incarnate Deity, whom Satan lacked the ability to enslave. The theory was later expanded by theologians such as Gregory of Nyssa and Rufinus of Aquileia. In the eleventh century, Anselm of Canterbury criticized the ransom theory, along with the associated Christus Victor theory, resulting in the theory's decline in western Europe. The theory has nonetheless retained some of its popularity in the Eastern Orthodox Church.\n\nOne of Origen's main teachings was the doctrine of the preexistence of souls, which held that before God created the material world he created a vast number of incorporeal \"spiritual intelligences\" (ψυχαί). All of these souls were at first devoted to the contemplation and love of their Creator, but, as the fervor of the divine fire cooled, almost all of these intelligences eventually grew bored of contemplating God, and their love for him \"cooled off\" (ψύχεσθαι). When God created the world, the souls which had previously existed without bodies became incarnate. Those whose love for God diminished the most became demons. Those whose love diminished moderately became human souls, eventually to be incarnated in fleshly bodies. Those whose love diminished the least became angels. One soul, however, who remained perfectly devoted to God became, through love, one with the Word (Logos) of God. The Logos eventually took flesh and was born of the Virgin Mary, becoming the God-man Jesus Christ.\n\nOrigen may or may not have believed in the Platonic teaching of \"metempsychosis\" (\"the transmigration of souls\"; i.e. reincarnation). He explicitly rejects \"the false doctrine of the transmigration of souls into bodies\", but this may refer only to a specific kind of transmigration. Geddes MacGregor has argued that Origen must have believed in \"metempsychosis\" because it makes sense within his eschatology and is never explicitly denied in the Bible. Roger E. Olson, however, dismisses the view that Origen believed in reincarnation as a New Age misunderstanding of Origen's teachings. It is certain that Origen rejected the Stoic notion of a cyclical universe, which is directly contrary to his eschatology.\n\nOrigen believed that, eventually, the whole world would be converted to Christianity, \"since the world is continually gaining possession of more souls.\" He believed that the Kingdom of Heaven was not yet come, but that it was the duty of every Christian to make the eschatological reality of the kingdom present in their lives. Origen was a Universalist, who suggested that all people might eventually attain salvation, but only after being purged of their sins through \"divine fire\". This, of course, in line of Origen's allegorical interpretation, was not \"literal\" fire, but rather the inner anguish of knowing one's own sins. Origen was also careful to always maintain that universal salvation was merely a possibility and not a definitive doctrine. Jerome quotes Origen as having allegedly written that \"after aeons and the one restoration of all things, the state of Gabriel will be the same as that of the Devil, Paul's as that of Caiaphas, that of virgins as that of prostitutes.\" Jerome, however, was not above deliberately altering quotations to make Origen seem more like a heretic and Origen himself expressly stated in his \"Letter to Friends in Alexandria\" that Satan and his demons would be not included in the final salvation.\n\nOrigen was an ardent believer in free will and he adamantly rejected the Valentinian idea of election. Instead, Origen believed that even disembodied souls have the power to make their own decisions. Furthermore, in his interpretation of the story of Jacob and Esau, Origen argued that the condition into which a person is born is actually dependent upon what their souls did in this pre-existent state. According to Origen, the superficial unfairness of a person's condition at birth—with some humans being poor, others rich, some being sick, and others healthy—is actually a by-product of what the person's soul had done in the pre-existent state. Origen defends free will in his interpretations of instances of divine foreknowledge in the scriptures, arguing that Jesus's knowledge of Judas's future betrayal in the gospels and God's knowledge of Israel's future disobedience in the Deuteronomistic History only show that God knew these events would happen in advance. Origen therefore concludes that the individuals involved in these incidents still made their decisions out of their own free will.\n\nOrigen was an ardent pacifist and, in his \"Against Celsus\", he argued that Christianity's inherent pacifism was one of the most outwardly noticeable aspects of the religion. While Origen did admit that some Christians served in the Roman army, he pointed out that most did not and insisted that engaging in earthly wars was against the way of Christ. Origen accepted that it was sometimes necessary for a non-Christian state to wage wars, but insisted that it was impossible for a Christian to fight in such a war without compromising his or her faith, since Christ had absolutely forbidden violence of any kind. Origen explained the violence found in certain passages of the Old Testament as allegorical and pointed out Old Testament passages which he interpreted as supporting nonviolence, such as and . Origen maintained that, if everyone were peaceful and loving like Christians, then there would be no wars and the Empire would not need a military.\n\nOrigen bases every part of his theology on the Christian scriptures and never appeals to Platonic teachings without having first supported his argument with a firm scriptural basis. He saw the scriptures as divinely inspired and was also very cautious to never contradict his own interpretation of what was written in them. Nonetheless, Origen did have a penchant for speculating beyond what was explicitly stated in the Bible, and this habit frequently placed him in the hazy realm between strict orthodoxy and heresy.\n\nAccording to Origen, there are two kinds of Biblical literature, which are found in both the Old and New Testaments: \"historia\" (\"history, or narrative\") and \"nomothesia\" (\"legislation or ethical prescription\"). Origen expressly states that the Old and New Testaments should be read together and according to the same rules. Origen further taught that there were three different ways in which passages of scripture could be interpreted. The \"flesh\" was the literal, historical interpretation of the passage; the \"soul\" was the moral message behind the passage; and the \"spirit\" was the eternal, incorporeal reality that the passage conveyed. In Origen's exegesis, the Book of Proverbs, Ecclesiastes, and the Song of Songs represent perfect examples of the bodily, soulful, and spiritual components of scripture respectively.\n\nOrigen saw the \"spiritual\" interpretation as the deepest and most important meaning of the text and taught that some passages held no literal meaning at all and that their meanings were \"purely\" allegorical. Nonetheless, he stressed that \"the passages which are historically true are far more numerous than those which are composed with purely spiritual meanings.\" Origen noticed that the accounts of Jesus's life in the four canonical gospels contain irreconcilable contradictions, but he argued that these contradictions did not undermine the spiritual meanings of the passages in question. Origen's idea of a twofold creation was based on an allegorical interpretation of the creation story found in the first two chapters of the Book of Genesis. The first creation, described in , was the creation of the primeval spirits, who are made \"in the image of God\" and are therefore incorporeal like Him; the second creation described in is when the human souls are given ethereal, spiritual bodies and the description in of God clothing Adam and Eve in \"tunics of skin\" refers to the transformation of these spiritual bodies into corporeal ones. Thus, each phase represents a degradation from the original state of incorporeal holiness.\n\nOrigen's conception of God the Father is apophatic—a perfect unity, invisible and incorporeal, transcending all things material, and therefore inconceivable and incomprehensible. He is likewise unchangeable and transcends space and time. But his power is limited by his goodness, justice, and wisdom; and, though entirely free from necessity, his goodness and omnipotence constrained him to reveal himself. This revelation, the external self-emanation of God, is expressed by Origen in various ways, the Logos being only one of many. The revelation was the first creation of God (cf. Prov. viii. 22), in order to afford creative mediation between God and the world, such mediation being necessary, because God, as changeless unity, could not be the source of a multitudinous creation.\n\nThe Logos is the rational creative principle that permeates the universe. The Logos acts on all human beings through their capacity for logic and rational thought, guiding them to the truth of God's revelation. As they progress in their rational thinking, all humans become more and more like Christ. Nonetheless, they retain their individuality and do not become subsumed into Christ. Creation came into existence only through the Logos, and God's nearest approach to the world is the command to create. While the Logos is substantially a unity, he comprehends a multiplicity of concepts, so that Origen terms him, in Platonic fashion, \"essence of essences\" and \"idea of ideas\".\n\nOrigen significantly contributed to the development of the idea of the Trinity. He declared the Holy Spirit to be a part of the Godhead and interpreted the Parable of the Lost Coin to mean that the Holy Spirit dwells within each and every person and that the inspiration of the Holy Spirit was necessary for any kind of speech dealing with God. Origen taught that the activity of all three parts of the Trinity were necessary for a person to attain salvation. In one fragment preserved by Rufinus in his Latin translation of Pamphilus's \"Defense of Origen\", Origen seems to apply the phrase \"homooúsios\" (ὁμοούσιος; \"of the same substance\") to the relationship between the Father and the Son, but in other passages, Origen rejected the belief that the Son and the Father were one \"hypostasis\" as heretical. According to Rowan Williams, because the words \"ousia\" and \"hypostasis\" were used synonymously in Origen's time, Origen almost certainly would have rejected \"homoousios\" as heretical. Williams states that it is impossible to verify whether the quote that uses the word \"homoousios\" really comes from Pamphilus at all, let alone Origen.\n\nNonetheless, Origen was a Subordinationist, meaning he believed that the Father was superior to the Son and the Son was superior to the Holy Spirit, a model based on Platonic proportions. Jerome records that Origen had written that God the Father is invisible to all beings, including even the Son and the Holy Spirit, and that the Son is invisible to the Holy Spirit as well. At one point Origen suggests that the Son was created by the Father and that the Holy Spirit was created by the Son, but, at another point, he writes that \"Up to the present I have been able to find no passage in the Scriptures that the Holy Spirit is a created being.\" At the time when Origen was alive, orthodox views on the Trinity had not yet been formulated and Subordinationism was not yet considered heretical. In fact, virtually all orthodox theologians prior to the Arian controversy in the latter half of the fourth century were Subordinationists to some extent. Origen's Subordinationism may have developed out of his efforts to defend the unity of God against the Gnostics.\n\nOrigen is often seen as the first major Christian theologian. Though his orthodoxy had been questioned in Alexandria while he was alive, Origen's torture during the Decian persecution led Pope Dionysius of Alexandria to rehabilitate Origen's memory there, hailing him as a martyr for the faith. Later, after Origen's death, Dionysius became one of the foremost proponents of Origen's theology. Every Christian theologian who came after him was influenced by his theology, whether directly or indirectly. Origen's contributions to theology were so vast and complex, however, that his followers frequently emphasized drastically different parts of his teachings to the expense of other parts. Dionysius emphasized Origen's Subordinationist views, which led him to deny the unity of the Trinity, causing controversy throughout North Africa. At the same time, Origen's other disciple Theognostus of Alexandria taught that the Father and the Son were \"of one substance\".\n\nFor centuries after his death, Origen was regarded as the bastion of orthodoxy and his philosophy practically defined Eastern Christianity. Origen himself was revered as one of the greatest of all Christian teachers; he was especially beloved by monks, who saw themselves as continuing in Origen's ascetic legacy. As time progressed, however, Origen became criticized under the standard of orthodoxy in later eras, rather than the standards of his own lifetime. In the early fourth century, the Christian writer Methodius of Olympus criticized some of Origen's more speculative arguments, but otherwise agreed with Origen on all other points of theology. Peter of Antioch and Eustathius of Antioch also criticized Origen as heretical.\n\nBoth orthodox and heterodox theologians claimed to be following in the tradition Origen had established. Athanasius of Alexandria, the most prominent supporter of the Holy Trinity at the First Council of Nicaea, was deeply influenced by Origen and so were Basil of Caesarea, Gregory of Nyssa, and Gregory of Nazianzus (the so-called \"Cappadocian Fathers\"). At the same time, however, many commonalities exist between Origen's theology and Arianism. Although the relationship between the two is still disputed, in antiquity, many orthodox Christians believed that Origen was the true and ultimate source of the Arian heresy.\n\nThe first Origenist crisis began in the late fourth century AD, coinciding with the beginning of monasticism in Palestine. The first stirring of the controversy came from the Cyprian bishop Epiphanius of Salamis, who was determined to root out all heresies and refute them. Epiphanius attacked Origen in his anti-heretical treatises \"Ancoratus\" (375) and \"Panarion\" (376), compiling a list of teachings Origen had espoused that Epiphanius regarded as heretical. Epiphanius's treatises portray Origen as an originally orthodox Christian who had been corrupted and turned into a heretic by the evils of \"Greek education\". Epiphanius particularly objected to Origen's Subordinationism, his \"excessive\" use of allegorical hermeneutic, and his habit of proposing ideas about the Bible \"speculatively, as exercises\" rather than \"dogmatically\".\n\nEpiphanius asked John, the bishop of Jerusalem to condemn Origen as a heretic. John refused on the grounds that a person could not be retroactively condemned as a heretic after the person had already died. In 393, a monk named Atarbius advanced a petition to have Origen and his writings to be censured. Tyrannius Rufinus, a priest at the monastery on the Mount of Olives who had been ordained by John of Jerusalem and was a longtime admirer of Origen, rejected the petition outright. Rufinus's close friend and associate Jerome, who had also studied Origen, however, came to agree with the petition. Around the same time, John Cassian, a Semipelagian monk, introduced Origen's teachings to the West.\n\nIn 394, Epiphanius wrote to John of Jerusalem, again asking for Origen to be condemned, insisting that Origen's writings denigrated human sexual reproduction and accusing him of having been an Encratite. John once again denied this request. By 395, Jerome had allied himself with the anti-Origenists and begged John of Jerusalem to condemn Origen, a plea which John once again refused. Epiphanius launched a campaign against John, openly preaching that John was an Origenist deviant. He successfully persuaded Jerome to break communion with John and ordained Jerome's brother Paulinianus as a priest in defiance of John's authority.\n\nMeanwhile, in 397, Rufinus published a Latin translation of Origen's \"On First Principles\". Rufinus was convinced that Origen's original treatise had been interpolated by heretics and that these interpolations were the source of the heterodox teachings found in it. He therefore heavily modified Origen's text, omitting and altering any parts which disagreed with contemporary Christian orthodoxy. In the introduction to this translation, Rufinus mentioned that Jerome had studied under Origen's disciple Didymus the Blind, implying that Jerome was a follower of Origen. Jerome was so incensed by this that he resolved to produce his own Latin translation of \"On the First Principles\", in which he promised to translate every word exactly as it was written and lay bare Origen's heresies to the whole world. Jerome's translation has been lost in its entirety.\n\nIn 399, the Origenist crisis reached Egypt. Pope Theophilus of Alexandria was sympathetic to the supporters of Origen and the church historian, Sozomen, records that he had openly preached the Origenist teaching that God was incorporeal. In his \"Festal Letter\" of 399, he denounced those who believed that God had a literal, human-like body, calling them illiterate \"simple ones\". A large mob of Alexandrian monks who regarded God as anthropomorphic rioted in the streets. According to the church historian Socrates Scholasticus, in order to prevent a riot, Theophilus made a sudden about-face and began denouncing Origen. In the year 400, Theophilus summoned a council in Alexandria, which condemned Origen and all his followers as heretics for having taught that God was incorporeal, which they decreed contradicted the only true and orthodox position, which was that God had a literal, physical body resembling that of a human.\n\nTheophilus labelled Origen himself as the \"hydra of all heresies\" and persuaded Pope Anastasius I to sign the letter of the council, which primarily denounced the teachings of the Nitrian monks associated with Evagrius Ponticus. In 402, Theophilus expelled Origenist monks from Egyptian monasteries and banished the four monks known as the \"Tall Brothers\", who were leaders of the Nitrian community. John Chrysostom, the Patriarch of Constantinople, granted the Tall Brothers asylum, a fact which Theophilus used to orchestrate John's condemnation and removal from his position at the Synod of the Oak in July of 403. Once John Chrysostom had been deposed, Theophilus restored normal relations with the Origenist monks in Egypt and the first Origenist crisis came to an end.\n\nThe Second Origenist Crisis occurred in the sixth century, during the height of Byzantine monasticism. Although the Second Origenist Crisis is not nearly as well documented as the first, it seems to have primarily concerned the teachings of Origen's later followers, rather than anything Origen himself had actually written. Origen's disciple Evagrius Ponticus had advocated contemplative, noetic prayer, but other monastic communities prioritized asceticism in prayer, emphasizing fasting, labors, and vigils. Some Origenist monks in Palestine, referred to by their enemies as \"Isochristoi\" (meaning \"those who would assume equality with Christ\"), emphasized Origen's teaching of the pre-existence of souls and held that all souls were originally equal to Christ's and would become equal again at the end of time. Another faction of Origenists in the same region instead insisted that Christ was the \"leader of many brethren\", as the first-created being. This faction was more moderate and they were referred to by their opponents as \"Protoktistoi\" (\"First Createds\"). Both factions accused the other of heresy and other Christians accused both of them of heresy.\n\nThe Protoktistoi appealed to the Emperor Justinian I to condemn the Isochristoi of heresy through Pelagius, the papal \"apocrisarius\". In 543 AD, Pelagius presented Justinian with documents, including a letter denouncing Origen written by Patriarch Mennas of Constantinople, along with excerpts from Origen's \"On First Principles\" and several anathemata against Origen. A domestic synod convened to address the issue concluded that the Isochristoi's teachings were heretical and, seeing Origen as the ultimate culprit behind the heresy, denounced Origen himself as a heretic as well. Emperor Justinian ordered for all of Origen's writings to be burned. In the west, the \"Decretum Gelasianum\", which was written sometime between 519 and 553, listed Origen as an author whose writings were to be categorically banned.\n\nIn 553, during the early days of the Second Council of Constantinople (the Fifth Ecumenical Council), when Pope Vigilius was still refusing to take part in it, despite Justinian holding him hostage, the bishops at the council ratified an open letter which condemned Origen as the leader of the Isochristoi. The letter was not part of the official acts of the council and it more or less repeated the edict issued by the Synod of Constantinople in 543. It cites objectionable writings attributed to Origen, but all the writings referred to in it were actually written by Evagrius Ponticus. After the council officially opened, but while Pope Vigillius was still refusing to take part, Justinian presented the bishops with the problem of a text known as \"The Three Chapters\", which attacked the Antiochene Christology.\n\nThe bishops drew up a list of anathemata against the heretical teachings contained within \"The Three Chapters\" and those associated with them. In the official text of the eleventh anathema, Origen is condemned as a Christological heretic, but Origen's name does not appear at all in the \"Homonoia\", the first draft of the anathemata issued by the imperial chancery, nor does it appear in the version of the conciliar proceedings that was eventually signed by Pope Vigillius, a long time afterwards. These discrepancies may indicate that Origen's name may have been retrospectively inserted into the text after the Council. Some authorities believe these anathemata belong to an earlier local synod. Even if Origen's name did appear in the original text of the anathema, the teachings attributed to Origen that are condemned in the anathema were actually the ideas of later Origenists, which had very little grounding in anything Origen himself had actually written. In fact, Popes Vigilius (537–555), Pelagius I (556–61), Pelagius II (579–90), and Gregory the Great (590–604) were only aware that the Fifth Council specifically dealt with \"The Three Chapters\" and make no mention of Origenism or Universalism, nor spoke as if they knew of its condemnation—even though Gregory the Great was opposed to Universalism.\n\nAs a direct result of the numerous condemnations of his work, only a tiny fraction of Origen's voluminous writings have survived. Nonetheless, these writings still amount to a massive number of Greek and Latin texts, very few of which have yet been translated into English. Many more writings have survived in fragments through quotations from later Church Fathers. It is likely that the writings containing Origen's most unusual and speculative ideas have been lost to time, making it nearly impossible to determine whether Origen actually held the heretical views which the anathemas against him ascribed to him. Nonetheless, in spite of the decrees against Origen, the church remained enamored of him and he remained a central figure of Christian theology throughout the first millennium. He continued to be revered as the founder of Biblical exegesis and anyone in the first millennium who took the interpretation of the scriptures seriously would have had knowledge of Origen's teachings.\n\nJerome's Latin translations of Origen's homilies were widely read in western Europe throughout the Middle Ages and Origen's teachings greatly influenced those of the Byzantine monk Maximus the Confessor ( 550–662) and the Irish theologian John Scotus Eriugena ( 810–877). Since the Renaissance, the debate over Origen's orthodoxy has continued to rage. Basilios Bessarion (1403–1472), a Greek refugee who fled to Italy after the Fall of Constantinople in 1453, produced a Latin translation of Origen's \"Contra Celsum\", which was printed in 1481. Major controversy erupted in 1487, after the Italian humanist scholar Giovanni Pico della Mirandola (1463–1494) issued a thesis arguing that \"it is more reasonable to believe that Origen was saved than he was damned.\" A papal commission condemned Pico's position on account of the anathemas against Origen, but not until after the debate had received considerable attention.\n\nThe most prominent advocate of Origen during the Renaissance was the Dutch humanist scholar Desiderius Erasmus (1466 – 1536), who regarded Origen as the greatest of all Christian authors and wrote in a letter to John Eck that he learned more about Christian philosophy from a single page of Origen than from ten pages of Augustine. Erasmus especially admired Origen for his lack of rehetorical flourishes, which were so common in the writings of other Patristic authors. Erasmus also borrowed heavily from Origen's defense of free will in \"On First Principles\" in his 1524 treatise \"On Free Will\", now considered his most important theological work. In 1527, Erasmus translated and published the portion of Origen's \"Commentary on the Gospel of Matthew\" that survived only in Greek and, in 1536, he published the most complete edition of Origen's writings that had ever been published at that time. While Origen's emphasis on the human effort in attaining salvation appealed to the Renaissance humanists, it made him far less appealing to the proponents of the Reformation. Martin Luther (1483–1546) deplored Origen's understanding of salvation as irredeemably defective and declared \"in all of Origen there is not one word about Christ.\" Consequently, he ordered for Origen's writings to be banned. Nonetheless, the earlier Czech reformer Jan Hus ( 1369–1415) had taken inspiration from Origen for his view that the church is a spiritual reality rather than an official hierarchy and Luther's contemporary, the Swiss reformer Huldrych Zwingli (1484–1531), took inspiration from Origen for his interpretation of the eucharist as symbolic.\n\nIn the seventeenth century, the English Cambridge Platonist Henry More (1614 – 1687) was a devoted Origenist and, although he did reject the notion of universal salvation, he accepted most of Origen's other teachings. Pope Benedict XVI expressed admiration for Origen, describing him in a sermon as part of a series on the Church Fathers as \"a figure crucial to the whole development of Christian thought\", \"a true 'maestro'\", and \"not only a brilliant theologian but also an exemplary witness of the doctrine he passed on\". He concludes the sermon by inviting his audience to \"welcome into your hearts the teaching of this great master of the faith\". Modern Protestant evangelicals admire Origen for his passionate devotion to the scriptures, but are frequently baffled or even appalled by his allegorical interpretation of them, which many believe ignores the literal, historical truth behind them.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23558994", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23558994", "title": "Peithagoras", "text": "Peithagoras\n\nPeithagoras () was a Macedonian seer and general from Amphipolis, brother of Apollodorus. According to Aristobulus of Cassandreia, Apollodorus, having joined Alexander the Great on his return from his Indian expedition and accompanied him to Ecbatana, imagined that he had grounds for dreading his displeasure, and wrote therefore to Peithagoras at Babylon, to inquire whether any danger threatened him from Alexander or Hephaestion. The answer was that he had nothing to fear from Hephaestion, who (so the victims portended) would soon be removed out of his way. The next day Hephaestion's death took place (324 BC) and not long after Apollodorus received the same message from Peithagoras with respect to Alexander. Peithagoras is also said to have predicted the deaths of Perdiccas and Antigonus.\n\n"}
{"id": "57978775", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57978775", "title": "Rudolf Bereza", "text": "Rudolf Bereza\n\nRudolf Bereza(1942-2014) was a famous dissident from the Czech Republic. Bereza was best known for letters he wrote to President Husák and holding a banner in support of Charter 77.\n\nRudolf Bereza was born in 1942 in Tovačov, in what is today the Czech Republic. Growing up, he didn’t resist the Communist Regime. But in 1968, the armies of the Warsaw Pact invaded. This is the event that sparked him into dissident activities. He signed Charter 77 and began to deliver Samizdat documents for the Resistance. He was close with Tomáš Hradilek with whom Bereza participated in many resistance activities. They are both well known for a letter they wrote to President Husák titled “A Letter by Five Workers.” In this letter, they asked the President to abdicate. One of the rebellious activities Bereza is most famous for is when he and others held a banner in Olomouc that read “Charter 77 calls for civic courage.” He also wrote another letter to President Husák asking him to let political prisoners free and this letter was broadcast on Radio Free Europe. During his time of dissidence, he was arrested and brought in for questioning many times. The StB even wiretapped his house. After the Velvet Revolution, Bereza was involved in the countries move from communism to democracy. He was involved in the Czech National Council for the Civic Forum and worked as a police chief and bus driver.\n\nEven though he is not that well known, a few Czech organizations have interviewed him to document his story, like Post Bellum.\n"}
{"id": "42932559", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42932559", "title": "Shahir Krishnarao Sable", "text": "Shahir Krishnarao Sable\n\nKrishnarao Ganpatrao Sable, popularly known as Shahir Sable (3 September 1923 – 20 March 2015), was a Marathi language folk artist from Maharashtra, India. He was an accomplished singer, writer, playwright, performer, Loknatya (Folk theater) producer-director.\n\nShahir Sable was born in a small village called Pasarni, in the Wai taluka of district Satara to Shri Ganpatrao Sable in 1923. He also starting playing flute in the childhood. After getting primary schooling at birthplace, he was moved to his maternal uncle to Amalner where he studied till 7th. He left the school soon. At Amalner, he was very close to Sane Guruji. He spend lot of his time with Sane Guruji during freedom struggle. With his shahiri, he started making contribution in the struggle. He also started \"Jagruti Shahir Mandal\" during that time.\n\n\n\n\n\nHe died in his residence at Mumbai on 20th March 2015 at the age of 91.\n"}
{"id": "2041677", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2041677", "title": "Zbigniew Oleśnicki (cardinal)", "text": "Zbigniew Oleśnicki (cardinal)\n\nZbigniew Oleśnicki (; 5 December 1389 in Sienno, Masovian Voivodeship – 1 April 1455), known in Latin as Sbigneus, was a high-ranking Roman Catholic clergyman and an influential Polish statesman and diplomat. He served as Bishop of Kraków from 1423 until his death in 1455. He took part in the management of the country's most important affairs, initially as a royal secretary under King Władysław II Jagiełło and later as the effective regent during King Władysław III's minority. In 1449 he became the first native Polish cardinal.\n\nAt the age of twenty he was secretary to King Władysław Jagiełło, and fought with him in the battle of Grunwald on 15 July 1410. A favourite with the king, he took part in the management of the country's most important affairs. His influence with the king greatly aided him in opposing the Hussites, who had gained royal favour. On 9 July 1423, he was appointed to the episcopal See of Kraków, and in 1433 he was sent by the king as legate to the council of Basle, where he endeavoured to be on friendly terms with both parties.\n\nIn the 1430s he opposed Spytek of Melsztyn in a conflict which led to a short lived civil war and Spytek's death in 1439.\n\nOn 18 December 1439, he was created cardinal priest with the titular church of St. Prisca, by Pope Eugene IV. (The antipope Felix V also made him a cardinal on 20 January 1440.). As cardinal, his influence in Poland was second only to that of the king, and, during the frequent absence of Casimir IV in Lithuania, he transacted the affairs of the State.\n\nHe was recognized as one of the two most important Polish magnates of his time (the other one was magnate ).\n\nIn 1449, after the death of archbishop of Gniezno and primate of Poland Wincenty Kot, the position was proposed to Oleśnicki, but he refused it. It then passed to his political rival, bishop Władysław Oporowski.\n\nIn his conduct of Poland's affairs Oleśnicki entertained far-reaching imperial dreams, which included a complete assimilation of Lithuania into the Polish state and the conquest of Silesia from the Kingdom of Bohemia. In particular, Oleśnicki pursued the idea of a Crusading alliance with Hungary against the Ottoman Turks, with the ultimate aim of extending Poland's boundaries to the Black Sea. This was manifested in promoting Władysław III's taking the Hungarian Crown - to which some Polish magnates were strongly opposed. However, all these aspirations came to naught with King Władysław's death at the Battle of Varna.\n\nBeing a man of great learning, he advanced the study of arts and letters in every possible way, and the flourishing condition of the University of Krakow during his episcopacy is due chiefly to his efforts. The well-known chronicler Jan Długosz was his secretary. To repress the spread of Hussitism he called Giovanni da Capistrano (then in Breslau) and the Minorites to Kraków.\n\nDa Capistrano, whom Oleśnicki invited, was also known for his anti-Jewish zeal, in which he engaged in Poland as in other countries. Oleśnicki's own Anti-Jewish intolerance was manifested in his strongly criticising Casimir IV for reaffirming in 1453 the tolerant measures towards Jews enacted by Casimir III. Under Oleśnicki's influence, the 1454 Statutes of Nieszawa included the provisions that Jews' rights be \"restricted when they contradict canon law\" and that Polish Jews be compelled to wear distinctive clothing. However, this was never enforced in practice.\n\n"}
{"id": "10699574", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10699574", "title": "Zhang Chengzhi", "text": "Zhang Chengzhi\n\nZhang Chengzhi (Xiao'erjing: , born 10 September 1948) is a contemporary Hui Chinese author. Often named as the most influential Muslim writer in China, his historical narrative \"History of the Soul\", about the rise of the Jahriyya (哲合忍耶) Sufi order, was the second-most popular book in China in 1994.\n\nZhang was born in Beijing in 1948 to Hui parents of Shandong origin. Despite his Muslim ancestry, he was raised as an atheist. He graduated from Tsinghua University Middle School in 1967, at the height of the Cultural Revolution. According to the \"People's Daily\", Zhang was the first person to call himself a \"Red Guard\"; he used it as his pen name during his student days. Then on May 29, 1966, just two weeks after the \"People's Daily\" announced the beginning of the Cultural Revolution, Zhang convinced around ten other senior-level students to use the collective name \"Mao Zedong's Red Guards\" in addition to their individual signatures when signing a large-character poster denouncing their school officials; three days later, they issued another large-character poster under the same collective name, entitled \"We Must Resolutely Carry Out the Great Proletarian Cultural Revolution to its End\", with over one hundred signatures. Soon, students from all over Beijing began to call themselves \"Red Guards\".\n\nAfter his graduation, Zhang was \"sent down\" to Ujimqin Banner in Xilin Gol League, Inner Mongolia, where he lived for four years before returning to Beijing. Soon after his return, he entered the archaeology department of Peking University, graduating in 1975. He began his writing career in 1978, with the publication of a poem in Mongolian entitled \"Son of the People\" (做人民之子/\"Arad-un-huu\") and a Chinese-language short story \"Why does the rider sing?\" (骑手为什么歌唱). That same year, he entered a master's program in history at the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences's Department of Minority Languages, from which he graduated in 1981. In 1983, he received funding to go to Japan as an international exchange scholar, where he conducted research at Tokyo's Tōyō Bunko, the largest Asian studies library in Japan. Aside from Chinese and Mongolian, Zhang also speaks Japanese, and once audited a class in Kazakh at the Central University for Nationalities.\n\nZhang noted that during the Second Sino-Japanese War, Hui Muslims were suspicious of the intentions of Japanese researchers and deliberately concealed important religious information from them when interviewed.\n\nZhang is often identified as a representative of the so-called \"xungen\" movement (\"searching for roots\"), despite the fact that he himself dismisses entire concept of \"xungen\". His work repeatedly touches on the themes of martyrdom, everlasting tradition, and resistance to materialism and urban life. Unlike many other authors who lived through the Cultural Revolution and regret the chaos it created in their lives, even Zhang's early works such as \"Rivers of the North\" and \"Black Steed\" exhibit a noticeable level of idealism about his time as a Red Guard, and clearly demonstrate his desire to rebut the presumptions of scar literature. Analyses of Zhang's impact on Chinese literature and thought vary greatly. Zhu Xueqin expressed his admiration of Zhang for \"casting off his old self\" and taking a \"firm stand\" for idealistic values and against ethnocentrism. Dru Gladney, in contrast, analysed Zhang's popularity in terms of a larger trend of consumerist exoticisation of \"ethnic chic\" in 1990s China. Some scholars, both in China and abroad, go further in rendering harsh judgments: they denounce Zhang as \"xenophobic\" and criticise his continued support of Maoism even after his conversion to Islam.\n\nThe early 1980s have been described as Zhang's \"lyrical phase\". As a result of his works during this period, he has been described as one of China's first practitioners of \"stream of consciousness\" fiction. In 1984, however, Zhang quit his job at the China Writers' Association and moved to China's Northwest, spending six years living with the Muslims of Xihaigu, Ningxia. His time there resulted not only in his conversion to Islam and, in one critic's words, his \"open renunciation of Chinese culture\", but also in what is easily his most famous book: \"History of the Soul\", a work of narrative historical fiction which explores personal and religious conflicts during 172 years of development of the Jahriyya tariqah in China's northwest, interwoven with his own observations.\n\n\n\n\n"}
