{"id": "21871521", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21871521", "title": "All India Kisan Sabha (Ajoy Bhavan)", "text": "All India Kisan Sabha (Ajoy Bhavan)\n\nAll India Kisan Sabha(AIKS) is the peasant or farmers' wing of the Communist Party of India. The Kisan Sabha movement started in Bihar under the leadership of Swami Sahajanand Saraswati, who had formed in 1929 the Bihar Provincial Kisan Sabha (BPKS) to mobilise peasant grievances against the zamindari attacks on their occupancy rights.\n\nGradually the peasant movement intensified and spread across the rest of India. All these radical developments on the peasant front culminated in the formation of the All India Kisan Sabha (AIKS) at the Lucknow session of the Indian National Congress in April 1936, with Swami Sahajanand Saraswati elected as its first president. The other prominent members of this Sabha were N.G. Ranga, Ram Manohar Lohia, Jayaprakash Narayan, Acharya Narendra Dev and Bankim Mukerji, and it involved prominent leaders like N.G. Ranga, E.M.S. Namboodiripad, Pandit Karyanand Sharma, Pandit Yamuna Karjee, Pandit Yadunandan (Jadunandan) Sharma, Rahul Sankrityayan, P. Sundarayya, Ram Manohar Lohia, Yogendra Sharma and Bankim Mukerji. The Kisan Manifesto, released in August 1936, demanded abolition of the zamindari system and cancellation of rural debts; in October 1937 it adopted the red flag as its banner. Soon, its leaders became increasingly distant with Congress and repeatedly came in confrontation with Congress governments, in Bihar and United Province. \n\nIn the subsequent years, the movement was increasingly dominated by Socialists and Communists as it moved away from the Congress. By the 1938 Haripura session of the Congress, under the presidency of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose, the rift became evident and, by May 1942, the Communist Party of India, which was finally legalised by the government in July 1942, had taken over AIKS all across India, including Bengal where its membership grew considerably. It took on the Communist Party's line of People's War and stayed away from the Quit India Movement which started in August 1942, though this also meant losing its popular base. Many of its members defied party orders and joined the movement. Prominent members like N.G. Ranga, Indulal Yagnik and Swami Sahajananda soon left the organisation, which increasingly found it difficult to approach the peasants without the watered-down approach of pro-British and pro-war, and increasing its pro-nationalist agenda, much to the dismay of the British Raj.\n\nThe Communist Party of India (CPI) split into two in 1964; following this, so did the All India Kisan Sabha, which each faction affiliated to the splinters.\n"}
{"id": "56734984", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56734984", "title": "Arakan National Council", "text": "Arakan National Council\n\nThe Arakan National Council (; abbreviated ANC) is an ethno-political organisation in Myanmar that campaigns for the interests of the Rakhine people. It was founded at a conference between Rakhine insurgent groups in-exile in 2004, and also has an armed wing in Kayin State, known as the Arakan State Army.\n\nNaing Soe, a senior leader of the ANC, was arrested in February 2018, following a series of bombings in Sittwe, the capital of Rakhine State. He was later released after police failed to provide evidence linking him to the bombings within 30 days as is required by police procedure.\n\n"}
{"id": "34624536", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34624536", "title": "Bangladesh Planning Commission", "text": "Bangladesh Planning Commission\n\nBangladesh Planning Commission (denoted as PC) is the economic public policy institution of the Government of Bangladesh. The Planning Commission undertakes research studies and policy development initiatives for the growth of national economy and the expansion of the public infrastructure of the country, in tandem under the Ministry of Planning and alongside the Ministry of Finance.\n\nIn addition, the planning division of the Planning Commission serves as the secretariat for all major economic policy questions and for initiating the appraisal of development projects and programmes by: \n\nThe National Economic Council is the highest political authority for the consideration of economic policies and development activities reflective of long-term national policy objectives of the government of Bangladesh. It serves as the economic \"mini-cabinet\", consisting of the main economic ministers and their officials, and is chaired by the Prime Minister.\n\nGenerally, the ministries formulate their respective plans and programmes or projects, as per objectives formulated by the NEC. The NEC meets when called by the prime minister, and meetings can include external invitees dependent on the subject under consideration. All NEC proposals are later provided to ECNEC to be approved.\n\n\n\n\n\nThe ECNEC Wing of the Planning Commission is in charge of co-ordinating meetings of the ECNEC, and monitoring the implementation of decisions taken at the meetings.\n\nECNEC Wing is headed by a Joint Secretary of the Bangladesh Civil Service (Administration) cadre, who is supported by two Deputy Secretaries and two Senior Assistant Secretaries.\n\n\n\nThe primary functions of the ECNEC Wing are the following:\n\nTo consider and approve yearly target of foreign aid bids, expansion of trade, export of manpower as well as to review the progress of other annual targets.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "377411", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=377411", "title": "Bill (law)", "text": "Bill (law)\n\nA bill is proposed legislation under consideration by a legislature. A bill does not become law until it is passed by the legislature and, in most cases, approved by the executive. Once a bill has been enacted into law, it is called an \"act of the legislature\", or a \"statute\". Bills are introduced in the legislature and are discussed, debated and voted upon .\n\nThe term \"bill\" is primarily used in Anglophone nations. In the United Kingdom, the parts of a bill are known as \"clauses\", until it has become an act of parliament, from which time the parts of the law are known as \"sections\".\n\nIn Francophone nations a proposed law may be known as a \"projet de loi\" or \"proposition de loi\".\n\nThe preparation of a bill may involve the production of a draft bill prior to the introduction of the bill into the legislature. In the United Kingdom, draft bills are frequently considered to be confidential. Pre-legislative scrutiny is a formal process carried out by a parliamentary committee on a draft bill. It is required in much of Scandinavia, occurs in Ireland at the discretion of the Oireachtas (parliament) and occurs in the UK at the government's discretion.\n\nIn the Westminster system, where the executive is drawn from the legislature and usually holds a majority in the lower house, most bills are introduced by the executive (government bill). In principle, the legislature meets to consider the demands of the executive, as set out in the Queen's Speech or \"Speech from the Throne\".\n\nWhile mechanisms exist to allow other members of the legislature to introduce bills, these are subject to strict timetables and usually fail unless a consensus is reached. In the US system, where the executive is formally separated from the legislature, all bills must originate from the legislature. Bills can be introduced using the following procedures:\n\n\nBills are generally considered through a number of readings. This refers to the historic practice of the clerical officers of the legislature reading the contents of a bill to the legislature. While the bill is no longer read, the motions on the bill still refer to this practice.\n\nIn the British/Westminster system, a bill is read the first time when it is introduced. This is accompanied by an order that the bill be printed and considered again. At the second reading the general merits of the bill are considered – it is out of order to criticise a bill at this stage for technical defects in drafting. After the second reading the bill is referred to a committee, which considers the bill line by line proposing amendments. The committee reports to the legislature, at which stage further amendments are proposed. Finally a third reading debate at which the bill as amended is considered in its entirety. In a bicameral legislature the process is repeated in the other house, before the Bill is submitted to the executive for approval.\n\nWhere a piece of primary legislation is termed an act, the process of a bill becoming law may be termed enactment. Once a bill is passed by the legislature, it may automatically become law, or it may need further approval, in which case enactment may be effected by the approver's signature or proclamation.\n\nBills passed by the legislature usually require the approval of the executive such as the monarch, president, or governor to become law. Exceptions are the Irish Free State from the abolition of the Governor-General in December 1936 to the creation of the office of President in December 1937, and Israel from its formation until today, during which period bills approved by the Oireachtas and Knesset respectively became/become law immediately (Though, in Israel's case, the laws are ceremonially signed after their passage by the President).\n\nIn parliamentary systems, approval of the executive is normally a formality, since the head of state is directed by an executive controlled by the legislature. In constitutional monarchies, this approval is called royal assent. In rare cases approval may be refused or \"reserved\" by the head of state's use of a reserve power. The legislature may have significantly less power to introduce bills on such issues and may require the approval beforehand. In Commonwealth realms the royal prerogative informs this. In the United Kingdom, for example, cases include payments to the royal family, succession to the throne, and the monarch's exercise of prerogative powers.\n\nIn presidential systems, the need to receive approval can be used as a political tool by the executive, and its refusal is known as a \"veto\". The legislature may be able to override the veto by means of a supermajority vote.\n\nIn some jurisdictions a bill passed by the legislature may also require approval by a constitutional court. If the court finds the bill would violate the constitution it may annul it or send it back to the legislature for correction. In Ireland, the President has discretion under Article 26 of the Constitution to refer bills to the Supreme Court. In Germany the Federal Constitutional Court has discretion to rule on bills.\n\nSome bills may require approval by referendum. In Ireland this is obligatory for bills to amend the constitution; it is possible for other bills via a process that has never been used.\n\nA bill may come into force as soon as it becomes law, or it may specify a later date to come into force, or it may specify by whom and how it may be brought into force; for example, by ministerial order. Different parts of an act may come into force at different times.\n\nAn act is typically promulgated by being published in an official gazette. This may be required on enactment, coming into force, or both.\n\nLegislatures give bills numbers as they progress.\n\nIn the United States, all bills originating in the House of Representatives begin with \"H.R.\" and all bills originating from the Senate begin with an \"S.\". Every two years, at the start of odd-numbered years, the United States Congress recommences numbering from 1, though for bills the House has an order reserving the first 20 bill numbers and the Senate has similar measures for the first 10 bills. Joint resolutions also have the same effect as bills, and are titled as \"H. J. Res.\" or \"S. J. Res.\" depending on whether they originated in the House or Senate, respectively. This means that two different bills can have the same number. Each two-year span is called a \"congress\", tracking the terms of Representatives elected in the nationwide biennial House of Representatives elections, and each congress is divided into year-long periods called \"sessions\".\n\nIn the United Kingdom, for example, the Coroners and Justice Act in 2009 started as Bill 9 in the House of Commons. Then it became Bill 72 on consideration by the Committee, after that it became House of Lords Bill 33. Then it became House of Lords Bill 77, returned to the House of Commons as Bill 160 before finally being passed as Act no. 29. Parliament recommences numbering from one at the beginning of each session. This means that two different bills may have the same number. Sessions of parliament usually last a year. They begin with the State Opening of Parliament, and end with Prorogation.\n\nIn the Irish Oireachtas, bills are numbered sequentially from the start of each calendar year. Bills originating in the Dáil and Seanad share a common sequence. There are separate sequences for public and private bills, the latter prefixed with \"P\". Although acts to amend the constitution are outside the annual sequence used for other public acts, bills to amend the constitution are within the annual sequence of public bills.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2071453", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2071453", "title": "Blood and Soil", "text": "Blood and Soil\n\nBlood and soil () is a nationalist slogan expressing the nineteenth-century German idealization of a racially defined national body (\"blood\") united with a settlement area (\"soil\"). By it, rural and farm life forms are not only idealized as a counterweight to urban ones, but are also combined with ideas of a sedentary Germanic-Nordic peasantry as opposed to (specifically Jewish) nomadism. The contemporaneous German concept Lebensraum, the belief that the German people needed to reclaim historically German areas of Eastern Europe into which they could expand, is tied to it.\n\n\"Blood and soil\" was a key slogan of National Socialist ideology. The nationalist ideology of the Artaman League and the writings of Richard Walther Darré guided agricultural policies which were later adopted by Adolf Hitler, Heinrich Himmler and Baldur von Schirach.\n\nThe German expression was coined in the late 19th century, in tracts espousing racialism and romantic nationalism. It produced a regionalist literature, with some social criticism. This romantic attachment was widespread prior to the rise of the Nazis. Major figures in 19th-century German agrarian romanticism included Ernst Moritz Arndt and Wilhelm Heinrich Riehl, who argued that the peasantry represented the foundation of the German people and conservatism.\n\nUltranationalists predating the Nazis often supported country living as more healthy, with the Artaman League sending urban children to the countryside to work in part in hopes of transforming them into Wehrbauern (lit. \"soldier peasants\").\n\nRichard Walther Darré popularized the phrase at the time of the rise of Nazi Germany; he wrote a book called \"Neuadel aus Blut und Boden\" (\"A New Nobility Based On Blood And Soil\") in 1930, which proposed a systematic eugenics program, arguing for breeding as a cure-all for the problems plaguing the state. In 1928, he had also written the book \"Peasantry as the Life Source of the Nordic Race\", in which he presented his theory that the difference between Nordic people and Southeastern Europeans was based in the Nordic people’s connection to superior land. Darré was an influential member of the Nazi Party and a noted race theorist who assisted the party greatly in gaining support among common Germans outside the cities. Prior to their ascension to power, Nazis called for a return from the cities to the countryside. This agrarian sentiment allowed opposition to both the middle class and the aristocracy, and presented the farmer as a superior figure beside the moral swamp of the city.\n\nThe doctrine not only called for a \"back to the land\" approach and re-adoption of \"rural values\"; it held that German land was bound, perhaps mystically, to German blood. Peasants were the Nazi cultural heroes, who held charge of German racial stock and German history—as when a memorial of a medieval peasant uprising was the occasion for a speech by Darré praising them as force and purifier of German history. This would also lead them to understand the natural order better, and, in the end, only the man who worked the land really possessed it. Urban culture was decried as a weakness, \"asphalt culture\", that only the Führer's will could eliminate — sometimes, as a code for Jewish influence.\n\nIt contributed to the Nazi ideal of a woman: a sturdy peasant, who worked the land and bore strong children, contributing to praise for athletic women tanned by outdoor work. That country women gave birth to more children than city ones was also a factor in the support.\n\nCarl Schmitt argued that a people would develop laws appropriate to its \"blood and soil\" because authenticity required loyalty to the \"Volk\" over abstract universals.\n\n\"Neues Volk\" displayed demographic charts to deplore the destruction of the generous Aryan families' farmland and claiming that the Jews were eradicating traditional German peasantry. Posters for schools depicted and deplored the flight of people from the countryside to the city. The \"German National Catechism\", German propaganda widely used in schools, also recounted how farmers lost ancestral lands and had to move to the city, with all its demoralizing effects:\n\nThe program received far more ideological and propaganda support than concrete changes. When Gottfried Feder tried to settle workers in villages about decentralized factories, generals and Junkers successfully opposed him. Generals objected because it interfered with rearmament, and Junkers because it would prevent their exploiting their estates for the international market. It would also require the breakup of Junker estates for independent farmers, which was not implemented.\n\nThe \"Reichserbhofgesetz\", the State Hereditary Farm Law of 1933, implemented this ideology, stating that its aim was to: \"preserve the farming community as the blood-source of the German people\" (\"Das Bauerntum als Blutquelle des deutschen Volkes erhalten\"). Selected lands were declared hereditary and could not be mortgaged or alienated, and only these farmers were entitled to call themselves \"Bauern\" or \"farmer peasant\", a term the Nazis attempted to refurbish from a neutral or even pejorative to a positive term. Regional custom was only allowed to decide whether the eldest or the youngest son was to be the heir. In areas where no particular custom prevailed, the youngest son was to be the heir. Still, the eldest son inherited the farm, in most cases, during the Nazi era Priority was given to the patriline, so that, if there were no sons, the brothers and brothers' sons of the deceased peasant had precedence over the peasant's own daughters. The countryside was also regarded as the best place to raise infantry, and as having an organic harmony between landowner and peasant, unlike the \"race chaos\" of the industrial cities. It also prevented Jews from farming: \"Only those of German blood may be farmers.\"\n\nThe concept was a factor in the requirement of a year of \"land service\" for members of Hitler Youth and the League of German Girls. This period of compulsory service was required after completion of a student's basic education, before he or she could engage in advanced studies or become employed. Although working on a farm was not the only approved form of service, it was a common one; the aim was to bring young people back from the cities, in the hope that they would, then, stay \"on the land\". In 1942, 600,000 boys and 1.4 million girls were sent to help bringing in the harvest. The concept was one of the reasons for the creation of the Reich Harvest Thanksgiving Festival whose main purpose was the recognition of the achievements of the German farmers.\n\nBlood and soil was one of the foundations of the concept of Lebensraum, \"living space\". By expanding eastward and transforming those lands into breadbaskets, another blockade, such as that of World War I, would not cause massive food shortages, as that one had, a factor that aided the resonance of \"Blood and soil\" for the German population. Even Alfred Rosenberg, not hostile to the Slavs as such, regarded their removal from this land, where Germans had once lived, as necessary because of the unity of blood and soil. \"Mein Kampf\" prescribed as the unvarying aim of foreign policy the necessity of obtaining land and soil for the German people.\n\nWhile discussing the question of Lebensraum to the east, Hitler envisioned a Ukrainian \"breadbasket\" and expressed particular hostility to its \"Russian\" cities as hotbeds of Russianness and Communism, forbidding Germans to live in them and declaring that they should be destroyed in the war. Even during the war itself, Hitler gave orders that Leningrad was to be razed with no consideration given for the survival and feeding of its population. This also called for industry to die off in these regions. The Wehrbauer, or soldier-peasants, who were to settle there were not to marry townswomen, but only peasant women who had not lived in towns. This would also encourage large families.\n\nFurthermore, this land, held by \"tough peasant races\", would serve as a bulwark against attack from Asia.\n\nPrior to the Nazi take-over, two popular genres were the \"Heimat-Roman\", or regional novel, and \"Schollen-Roman\", or novel of the soil, which was also known as \"Blut-und-Boden\". This literature was vastly increased, the term being contracted into a slogan \"Blu-Bo\", and developed a mysticism of unity. It also combined war literature with the figure of the soldier-peasant, uncontaminated by the city. These books were generally set in the nominal past, but their invocation of the passing of the seasons often gave them an air of timelessness. \"Blood and soil\" novels and theater celebrated the farmer's life and human fertility, often mystically linking them.\n\nOne of the anti-Semitic fabrications in the children's book \"Der Giftpilz\" was the claim that the Talmud described farming as the most lowly of occupations. It also included an account of a Jewish financier forcing a German to sell his farm as seen by a neighbor boy; deeply distressed, the boy resolved never to let a Jew into his house, for which his father praised him, on the grounds that peasants must remember that Jews will always take their land.\n\nDuring the Nazi period in Germany, one of the charges put forward against certain works of art was that \"Art must not be isolated from blood and soil.\" Failure to meet this standard resulted in the attachment of the label, \"degenerate art\", to offending pieces. In Nazi art, both landscape paintings and figures reflected \"blood-and-soil\" ideology. Indeed, some Nazi art exhibits were explicitly titled \"Blood and Soil\". Artists frequently gave otherwise apolitical paintings such titles as \"German Land\" or \"German Oak\". Rural themes were heavily favored in painting. Landscape paintings were featured most heavily in the Greater German Art Exhibitions. While drawing on German romantic traditions, painted landscapes were expected to be firmly based on real landscapes, the German people's \"Lebensraum\", without religious overtones. Peasants were also popular images, promoting a simple life in harmony with nature. This art showed no sign of the mechanization of farm work. The farmer labored by hand, with effort and struggle.\n\nThe acceptance of this art by the peasant family was also regarded as an important element.\n\nUnder Richard Walther Darré, The Staff Office of Agriculture produced the documentary \"Blut und Boden\", which was displayed at Nazi party meetings as well as in public cinemas throughout Germany. Other \"Blut und Boden\" films likewise stressed the commonality of Germanness and the countryside. \"Die goldene Stadt\" has the heroine running away to the city, resulting in her pregnancy and abandonment; she drowns herself, and her last words beg her father to forgive her for not loving the countryside as he did. The documentary \"Ewiger Wald\" (\"The Eternal Forest\") depicted the forest as being beyond the vicissitudes of history, and the German people the same because they were rooted in the story; it depicted the forest sheltering ancient Germans, Arminius, and the Teutonic Knights, facing the peasants wars, being chopped up by war and industry, and being humiliated by occupation with black soldiers, but culminated in a neo-pagan May Day celebration. In \"Die Reise nach Tilsit\", the Polish seductress is an obvious product of \"asphalt culture,\" but the virtuous German wife is a country dweller in traditional costume. Many other commercial films of the Nazi era featured gratuitous, lingering shots of the Nazi landscape and idealized Aryan couples.\n\n\"An Investigation of Global Policy with the Yamato Race as Nucleus\" made extensive use of the term, usually in quotation marks, and showing an extensive debt to the Nazi usage.\n\nNorth American white supremacists, white nationalists, Neo-Nazis and members of the alt-right have adopted the slogan. It gained widespread public prominence as a result of the August 2017 Unite the Right rally in Charlottesville, Virginia, when participants carrying torches marched on the University of Virginia campus on the night of 11 August 2017 and were recorded chanting the slogan, among others. The rally was organized to protest the town's planned removal of a statue of Robert E. Lee. The chant was also heard in October 2017 at peaceful \"White Lives Matter\" rally in Shelbyville, Tennessee.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33043086", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33043086", "title": "Blood cashews", "text": "Blood cashews\n\nBlood cashews is the media term for a 2011 Human Rights Watch (HRW) report on cashew production in Vietnam, The Rehab Archipelago, which claimed human rights abuses in the use of people in drug-detention centres. \n\nVietnam is known as the world's largest cashew nut exporter with 24.5 percent share of the global cashew market. It was reported that Vietnam earned US$232 million from exporting 45,000 tons of cashew nuts in the first four months of 2010. \n\nUnder the authority of the police force and local officials, drug users are usually detained for two years. “Post-rehabilitation management” would take place for additional two or three years after the completion of the two years of detention.\n\nThis practice is carried out in the absence of judicial oversight. From the interview conducted by the HRW, it was observed that from the 34 interviewees, who were recently detained in 14 of 16 centers, administered by the Ho Chi Minh City authorities, none received legal consultation from a lawyer, or has appeared in court before or during their detention. In short, there was a miscarriage of justice and an abuse of human rights.\n\nBased on statistics, there were close to 40,000 people with the majority being young men. They were detained at the country's 123 drug rehabilitation centers and made to carry out “labour therapy”, which involves sewing garments, making bricks or processing cashews.\n\nThose who refused to obey the orders of the officers will be beaten with batons, given electric shocks, locked in isolation, deprived of food and water, and obliged to work even longer hours. In return for their labor, these detainees are only paid merely a few dollars a month; some were even made to pay for their food and lodging, demonstrating an exploitation of labour.\n\nBesides having to work under such harsh conditions, the processing of cashew nuts also poses threats to the detainees’ health. This is because the cashew oil is caustic and burns the skin; dust from the skin also causes cough and other health conditions. This labour therapy serves little or almost zero therapeutic effects to the detainees.\n\nThe Vietnam Cashew Association was established in the 1990s, with the objectives to oversee and regulate the cashew nuts industry. With their mission targeted to develop a sustainable cashew industry as well as to promote socioeconomic development for the country. However, little efforts are being put in to oversee and regulate the supply chain line of the cashew manufacturers.\n\nAs the detainees are not aware of the rights that they deserve, it puts them at a disadvantage in the current situation. Hence, in order to monitor and protect the rights of these detainees, cashew importers are called upon to ensure that their supply chains are not tainted with forced labour and abuse. Hence, they need to closely scrutinize the source of supply of the cashew nut products.\n"}
{"id": "3155093", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3155093", "title": "Campaign Life Coalition", "text": "Campaign Life Coalition\n\nThe Campaign Life Coalition (sometimes shortened to Campaign Life) is a Canadian political lobbyist organization founded in 1978. Based in Toronto, the organization advocates for socially conservative values. In addition to its initial goals of opposing abortion and euthanasia, Campaign Life Coalition advocates for what it describes as traditional family values, including opposition to same-sex marriage, sex education, homosexuality, pre-marital sex, and the use of contraceptive methods.\n\nAt the provincial level in Ontario, Campaign Life helped to establish and initially supported the Family Coalition Party (FCP). Following the FCP's name change to the New Reform Party of Ontario and the election of Patrick Brown as the new leader of the Progressive Conservative Party of Ontario in 2015, the CLC seemingly switched support to the Ontario PCs. The CLC endorsed Brown's bid for the leadership, along with other social conservative leadership candidate Monte McNaughton, and released a statement congratulating Brown on his victory. The group later became critical of Brown after he publicly announced that he would not repeal the new provincial sex education curriculum changes if he becomes premier. Its LifeSiteNews website even called Kathleen Wynne and Justin Trudeau more honest than Brown, because they openly campaigned for the social values that they supported, while Brown's policy changes on social issues made it difficult to know what his views are.\n\nIn 2005 the coalition criticised the Conservative Party of Canada for nominating John Baird and Peter Kent to run as candidates, as both had supported the legalization of same-sex marriage. It expressed support for John Pacheco's \"independent conservative\" candidacy against Baird in Ottawa West—Nepean, and for Greg Watrich's independent candidacy against sitting Tory MP James Moore (Port Moody—Westwood—Port Coquitlam), a supporter of Bill C-38.\n\nCampaign Life endorsed candidates Brad Trost and Pierre Lemieux in the 2017 Conservative leadership election.\n\nCampaign Life Coalition founded LifeSiteNews, a self described news website dedicated to \"issues of culture, life, and family\", in 1997. It also runs Daily News reports and information pages with the stated goal of \"provid[ing] balance and more accurate coverage on culture, life and family matters than is usually given by other media.\" It says its writers and researchers \"are located in various cities in the United States, Canada, Mexico, Italy, Australia, New Zealand and France,\" and it also runs a Spanish version of LifeSiteNews.com. A pro-choice Catholic priest, Raymond Gravel (died 2014), \"who bluntly spoke out in favour of gay marriage, ordination of gay priests and a more tolerant attitude toward abortion\", filed a lawsuit against the website in 2011 for defamation. In 2013, the lawsuit was allowed to advance to trial by a Quebec court. Catholic apologist Dave Armstrong has criticized LifeSiteNews for what he calls its \"radical Catholic reactionary\" stance.\n\n"}
{"id": "21270890", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21270890", "title": "Cash transfers", "text": "Cash transfers\n\nCash transfers are direct transfer payments of money to eligible people. Cash transfers are usually provided by the state and federal government.\n\nCash transfer programmes in developing countries are constrained by three factors: financial resources, institutional capacity and ideology. Governments in poorer countries tend to have restricted financial resources, and are therefore limited in the amount they can invest both directly in cash transfers and in measures to ensure that such programmes are effective. The amount invested is influenced by ‘value for money’ considerations, as well as by political and ideological concerns regarding ‘free handouts’ and ‘creating dependency’.\nAs random allocations are not particularly effective, there are two main forms of targeting:\nMeans testing potential recipients of cash transfers is the more politically acceptable, as money is not perceived to be wasted by including those who do not have a desperate need for the money (\"leakage\"). This can either be achieved through a screening process of potential recipients, or else by making the benefits of the transfers so low only the most desperate will apply. Yet there are also many problems associated with this method as the transaction costs of screening are very high, due to the need to pay for assessment, the travelling cost of candidates to and from the assessment and also the potential risks for corruption. There also may be a negative effect on social capital as resentment develops of those who receive support by those who do not.\n\nA universal approach, i.e.selecting all the under 5s, or pensioners, disabled, female led households, etc., does have many advantages as it increases social unity amongst a section of society benefitting from the programme and avoids the transaction costs of screening. A universal approach requires carefully selecting a target group as some groups may cover a greater number of poor families, but include the less needy. Similarly a more narrow recipient group risks excluding many of those who do actually need support.\n\nOne method of managing a cash transfer is to provide all the money at once in a lump sum, rather than in small regular amounts. Researchers at the Overseas Development Institute carried out a study on the effectiveness of the Swiss Agency for Development Cooperation's experiments with lump sum cash transfers and came out with the following six findings:\n\nMany governments in poorer countries, where cash transfers could potentially have the most impressive impact, are often unwilling to implement such programmes due to fears of inflation and more importantly, dependency on the transfers. Quite often it is NGOs who encourage the schemes. If introduced, these schemes are often directed at the non-working poor (although the DfID backed Hunger Safety Nets Programme is a notable exception). In sub-Saharan Africa transfer values are normally limited to 10 to 30% of the ultra poverty line, though donors are now recommending the provision of a transfer level equivalent to 100%.\n\nWhether due to the cautious approach or not, studies have shown that inflation is often avoided as traders increase their stock in anticipation of the schemes. Furthermore, the projects have often helped to build the state's legitimacy as it helps ensure citizens survival and programmes are targeted at marginalised groups and support their integration (e.g. in Nepal successive governments have used cash transfers to help integrate marginalised groups and reduce the risk of conflict).\n\nEnsuring the participation of poor communities in the monitoring and evaluation (M&E) of social protection programmes – and cash transfer programmes in particular - is gaining support from donors and governments who see potential gains in efficiency, legitimacy and satisfaction. ‘Participatory monitoring and evaluation’ (PM&E) techniques and mechanisms are particularly effective at giving a voice to the people who receive the money, and, when they work well, they serve increase the accountability of governments, local officials and programme implementers.\n\nQualitative and participatory research carried out by the Overseas Development Institute (in Kenya, Mozambique, the Occupied Palestinian Territories, Uganda and Yemen) investigating individual and community perceptions of cash transfer programmes reveals that the money has a number of positive, and potentially transformative, effects on the lives of the individuals and families that receive them, including:\n\n• People prefer to receive cash than other forms of assistance (food aid, public works, etc.) because it gives them the freedom to spend the money on the things they feel they need.\n\n• People experience an increase in their quality of life e.g. they are able to construct permanent shelters, have three meals a day and pay health-related costs.\n\n• More children are going to school as a result of receiving the transfer.\n\n• Particularly vulnerable or excluded beneficiaries felt that they were now able to meet the basic needs of their families, giving them greater economic freedom, security and enhanced psychological well-being.\n\n\nAs of 2015, only approximately 6% of humanitarian aid is provided in the form of cash transfers and vouchers, even though evidence indicates that it is more cost-effective, better for recipients and more transparent than in-kind aid.\n\nA High Level Panel on Humanitarian Cash Transfers was convened in 2015. It found that in many cases, cash transfers were better for people in humanitarian crises. For example:\n\nIn order to scale up cash transfers in humanitarian aid, organisations need to:\n\nResearch has been carried out by the Overseas Development Institute into the challenges of implementing cash transfers in Sierra Leone and in ensuring their success. After a decade of conflict over 70% of the population lives in poverty and over 25% in extreme poverty (defined as being unable to achieve the bare minimum nutritional food intake). Given the poverty and the high levels of fragmentation in society, cash transfer schemes have been small scale to date, but include:\nAny expansion of the system has to take into account:\n\nResearchers at the Overseas Development Institute found that the perceived risk of dependency was very high and that transfers of tools, sewing machines, or agricultural inputs have proved to be more popular. Furthermore, organisations such as the World Food Programme were of the belief that giving food, instead of cash, in payment for public works was more culturally relevant, in an area where workers had traditionally been paid this way. Yet the actual risk of dependency proved to be far less than feared.\nThe research has also shown that despite poor infrastructure, administering cash transfers has not presented as great a challenge as expected. Informal networks have ensured cash is flowing from the urban to rural areas, even if by hand, and local councils and schools far from the capital are now also receiving payment through bank accounts and not in cash. The same goes for institutional capacity which is widely believed to be improving.\n\nCorruption in Sierra Leone continues to pose a serious challenge and the country ranked only 142 out of 163 in Transparency International's 2006 rankings. Cash transfers are no more prone to corruption than other sources of government spending, yet specific parts of the process of implementation must be carefully monitored. \nAffordability is argued to be low. Total government expenditure on social protection was budgeted at around US$1.5 million in 2006 and US$2.8 million in 2007 and social protection expenditure is estimated at around 1.5% to 2.5% of non-salary, non-interest recurrent government expenditure, 0.3–0.6% of total government expenditure and a small fraction of a percentage of GDP.\n\nGiveDirectly is a non-profit organization, headquartered in the United States and currently operating in Kenya, that aims to help people living in extreme poverty by making unconditional cash transfers to them via mobile phone (through m-Pesa). It is the first charity dedicated exclusively to cash transfers. It claims that 90% of donor funds are utilized in the form of the actual cash transfers, with the remaining 10% being split between fees for money transfers and recipient identification costs. Their model is closer to the \"lump sums\" transfer model than the \"regular income supplement\" model that has historically been used more by governments.\n\nThe first comprehensive systematic review of the health impact of unconditional cash transfers included 21 studies, of which 16 were randomized controlled trials. It found that unconditional cash transfers may not improve health services use. However, they lead to a large, clinically meaningful reduction in the likelihood of being sick by an estimated 27%. Unconditional cash transfers may also improve food security and dietary diversity. Children in recipient families are more likely to attend school, and the cash transfers may increase money spent on health care.<ref name=\"doi10.1002/14651858.CD011135.pub2\"></ref>\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15754824", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15754824", "title": "Chief Whip of the Conservative Party", "text": "Chief Whip of the Conservative Party\n\nThe Chief Whip of the Conservative Party is responsible for administering the whipping system in the party which ensures that members attend and vote in parliament when the party leadership requires a majority vote. Whips, of which two are appointed in the party, a member of the House of Commons and a member of the House of Lords also help to organise their party’s contribution to parliamentary business. On some occasions, the party leadership may allow MP's to have a free vote based on their own conscience rather than party policy, of which the chief whip is not required to direct votes.\n\nThis is a list of people who have served as Chief Whip of the Conservative Party, previously the Tory Party, in the Parliament of the United Kingdom.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45525179", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45525179", "title": "Chris Epps", "text": "Chris Epps\n\nChristopher B. Epps (born January 25, 1961) is a former commissioner of the Mississippi Department of Corrections (MDOC) and career employee in the state criminal justice system; he started his career as a teacher. Appointed as Commissioner in 2002 and serving until 2014, he served under three governors and was the agency's longest-serving commissioner in the state. Epps came up within the department as a 32-year career employee.\n\nAlthough MDOC had been sued in two class-action suits in the 21st century on behalf of prisoners because of poor conditions, Epps was respected for his efforts to improve conditions by reducing the use of solitary confinement in Mississippi, reducing the prison population by supporting earlier parole for non-violent offenders, and establishing halfway houses for newly released inmates. Beginning in the late 20th century, Mississippi contracted with for-profit prison companies to run several of its prisons, as did many other states.\n\nEpps was the only African American who was head of a state department under Governor Bryant. Epps had been elected president of the American Correctional Association in 2010. He resigned on November 5, 2014, during the federal investigation and after resigning as commissioner of the state system. It was the day before he was indicted on federal charges of bribery and kickbacks. He had received what may have been more than $2 million in bribes from Cecil McCrory, a businessman and former Mississippi Republican state house member, and others, including Robert Simmons. McCrory was most recently a consultant for Management and Training Corporation (MTC) of Utah, a major for-profit prison operating company; at the time, it had a $60 million contract in Mississippi to operate four prisons.\n\nIn February 2017, Mississippi Attorney General Jim Hood announced he had filed civil cases for damages and punitive damages against 11 corporations and individuals who had engaged in contracts with the MDOC and Epps. He said that state law required the companies and consultants to pay back the value of their contracts.\n\nChristopher Epps was born and grew up in Tchula, Mississippi, in Holmes County, which is bordered on the west by the Yazoo River and the Mississippi Delta. His family was deeply involved in education and several members had PhDs. Epps attended Mississippi Valley State University and received a bachelor's degree in elementary education.\n\nEpps has said that, at the time of his graduation, he filled out an MDOC job application at a job fair at his university. Epps' relatives worked in the education sector and had post-graduate degrees. He expected to have a career in education, too.\n\nHe started working at a school in Drew, Mississippi teaching science and mathematics. In 1982 MDOC contacted him asking if he was interested in working in prisons. Epps earned a master's degree in guidance counseling from Liberty University.\n\nBy 1982 Epps thought the criminal justice system might provide more opportunity for career advancement than education. At first he worked both as a teacher outside and as a prison correctional officer in Unit 29 at the Mississippi State Penitentiary (Parchman) in Sunflower County, Mississippi. In January 1985 he began working there as a disciplinary hearings officer. Around July of that year he quit his teaching position and devoted himself to Parchman, and at that time he became a case manager there.\n\nHe began to be promoted to higher positions within the corrections department. He served as Chief of Security and Corrections Case Management Supervisor. In December 1988 Governor Ray Mabus appointed Epps as the deputy superintendent of Mississippi State Penitentiary. He was responsible for security and running day-to-day prison operations. He also served as the MDOC's Chief of Staff, Deputy Commissioner of Institutions, Deputy Commissioner of Community Corrections, Director of Offender Services and Director of Treatment Services.\n\nIn July 2002 the ACLU filed a class action suit against MDOC and the officials of Parchman Penitentiary, saying that conditions for inmates on Death Row in Unit 32 constituted \"cruel and unusual punishment\" as prohibited by the US Constitution. On August 30, 2002, Democratic Governor Ronnie Musgrove appointed Epps as Commissioner of the Mississippi Department of Corrections. Republican governors Haley Barbour and Phil Bryant reappointed Epps on January 13, 2004 and January 11, 2012, respectively.\n\nIn 2006, Epps agreed to enter into a consent decree with the ACLU, working with them to reform Unit 32 particularly. He invited teams from Connecticut and reviewed the classification system, seeking to develop a better way to reward prisoners who modeled desired behavior. Controls at Unit 32 were lessened, group dining and classes were introduced. During the next four years, programs were developed whereby prisoners could earn their way out of solitary confinement through good behavior. By the fall of 2007, the prison population in solitary confinement was reduced from more than 1,000 to 150. Incidents of violence decreased dramatically. Many prisoners in the facility were held there because they had HIV or mental illness. The state worked to transfer them to other facilities.\n\nIn 2010, Epps continued to work with the ACLU to close Unit 32, moving prisoners with severe mental illness from Unit 32 to the East Mississippi Correctional Facility, intended to provide more intensive treatment for such prisoners.\n\nIn 2008, Epps gained support from state senator Willie Simmons for legislation to amend the state's \"truth in sentencing law\"; the new law, signed by the governor in 2009, made nonviolent offenders eligible for parole after serving 25 percent of their sentences. (The previous law had required all convicted felons to serve at least 85 percent of their sentence, resulting in a dramatic expansion of the number of prisoners in the state, to 22,800 by 2007.) The law was retroactive. From 2009 to 2010 the Parole Board reviewed cases to determine prisoners eligible for parole. They were aided by use of a science-based \"risk instrument\" to evaluate prisoners' risk of recidivism. The state released more than 3,000 felons on parole who had been convicted of non-violent crimes. None has committed the type of high-profile crimes that has damaged such efforts in other states. This policy also saved the state money. Epps was respected for his efforts to reduce the use of solitary confinement in prisons throughout the state.\n\nBy 2014, Epps was making a $132,700-a-year salary. He was the only African American heading a state department in Governor Bryant's administration.\n\nServing in the Mississippi National Guard since 1984, Epps was promoted to a rank of lieutenant colonel before his March 2008 retirement. Epps worked as an auditor for the American Correctional Association (ACA). In May 2010 he was elected as the association's president, with a term through February 2015. He was also elected as president of the Association of State Correctional Administrators (ASCA), taking office in August 2014. On November 5, 2014 Epps resigned from his ACA position, the day before his indictment was announced.\n\nEpps's wife is Catherlean Sanders and they have two sons. Prior to 2015, Epps's primary residence was in Flowood, Mississippi in the Jackson metropolitan area. He served as a deacon of Hanging Moss Road Church of Christ in Jackson.\n\nAt one time he owned a condominium in Biloxi, but later replaced it with a condominium in Pass Christian, Mississippi.\n\nIn April 2015, Epps' wife hired a Seattle forfeiture attorney to represent her in regard to the case involving their Flowood residence. On March 2, 2016, the court allowed her to keep $200,000 of their forfeited assets.\n\nOn November 6, 2014 the office of the United States Attorney for the Southern District of Mississippi announced that it had indicted Epps on corruption charges; these charges were related to his dealings with the for-profit prison industry. The federal indictment stated that Cecil McCrory, a Republican former state House member from 1988-1994 and a businessman who served as the chairperson of the Rankin County School District's board of education, paid Epps kickbacks and bribes totaling more than $1 million. His payments included payment of part of the mortgage of Epps' primary residence in the Jackson area. Epps leveraged the resulting increased equity together with another bribe payment to buy a condominium; he later traded up the latter for a larger, more expensive condo.\n\nIn exchange, Epps directed contracts to McCrory-owned companies, such as a no-bid contract to his G.T. Enterprises, which provided commissary services, as well as to companies that hired McCrory as a paid consultant. Per the indictment, the activity started in 2007 and ended on March 12, 2014. Epps entered an initial plea of not guilty, and he received a bond of $25,000. According to Leake County Sheriff Greg Waggoner, the investigation was initiated after an attempt by MDOC to cover-up a sexual assault of an inmate of a halfway facility in Walnut Grove, Mississippi. The FBI launched an investigation which eventually focused on Epps, naming it \"Mississippi Hustle\".\n\nIn November 2014 Governor Phil Bryant ordered rebids of the contracts that had been awarded by Epps. To review existing contracts, he appointed a 5-member task force, which included Mike Moore, a Democrat. Moore was Mississippi's Attorney General from 1988 to 2004. During the mid-1990s, he served on a board that oversaw prison construction projects authorized after the state was sued because of overcrowding and substandard conditions. Mississippi also was beginning to use for-profit contractors to operate some prisons, some of which were privately owned by such contractors. Bryant had received a $1,000 campaign contribution from McCrory. After learning of the indictments, he donated this money to the Salvation Army.\n\nIn February 2015 Epps pleaded guilty to corruption-related charges in a plea bargain: one count of filing a false tax return and one count of conspiracy to launder money. As part of the plea, he forfeited two Mercedes Benz vehicles and his two residences. In an allocution, he told the presiding Federal judge, Henry Travillion Wingate, \"I'm sorry for what I've done.\" \"I've repented before God. I apologize to my family and the state of Mississippi.\"\n\nEpps said he began taking gratuities from McCrory in 1997, before he became commissioner and while McCrory was still a state legislator. As of February 2015, Epps was still eligible to receive benefits from the Mississippi Public Employees’ Retirement System.\n\nMcCrory plea bargained to lesser federal charges. He had long worked as a consultant to prison contractors: first to Cornell Companies of Houston, Texas, which built and operated the Walnut Grove Youth Correctional Facility in Mississippi, and the GEO Group (which acquired Cornell). Last McCrory advised GEO's successor, Utah's Management and Training Corporation. In 2015 MTC held a $60 million contract to operate four Mississippi prisons, including Wilkinson County Correctional Facility, which had previously been operated by the Corrections Corporation of America, now known as CoreCivic.\n\nUpon the disclosure of the indictments, MTC fired McCrory, claiming they knew nothing of his criminal activities. According to the indictments, MTC confirmed that it paid McCrory $12,000 a month and had hired him at Epps’ recommendation. The company said that Epps had not forced it to hire McCrory. MTC spokesman Issa Arnita said that Epps “made us aware of the fee McCrory had charged in the past to other contractors” and that McCrory had worked for GEO Group, the Boca Raton, Florida for-profit prison firm, which had previously held the contracts in Mississippi that MTC was awarded. “MTC was not aware of any alleged inappropriate relationships between Mr. Epps and Mr. McCrory or that Mr. Epps was allegedly a participant in any way in the contract with McCrory.”\n\nThe indictment recounted a 2012 conversation between Epps and McCrory, quoting Epps as telling McCrory that he had persuaded MTC to hire him, and they were to split MTC's payments after taxes. According to the indictment, Epps said, “I got us $12,000 per month.”\n\nEpps and McCrory blamed each other for beginning the bribery scheme. Their sentencing was first scheduled for June 9, 2015, but a day earlier, the U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of Mississippi said the sentencing was indefinitely delayed, as prosecutors were pursuing additional indictments.\n\nThe federal government indicted many others of those who allegedly bribed Epps, such as Mark Longoria, CEO of Drug Testing Corporation of Houston, Texas, who pleaded guilty in August 2016. He was sentenced to five years in prison and fined $368,000 and ordered to forfeit $131,000 on February 14, 2017. He is being held at Federal Correctional Institution, Forrest City, Arkansas, with an anticipated release date of September 13, 2021.\n\nAlso charged were consultant Robert A. Simmons, and Teresa Malone, the wife of former Mississippi House Corrections Committee Chairman, Democrat Bennett Malone. In August 2016, the indictment of Guy E. \"Butch\" Evans was announced.\n\nIn 2012 Evans had been awarded a contract as the insurance broker of record for the Mississippi Department of Corrections. He was given exclusive access to MDOC employees to sell policies and products. He received commissions from insurance companies and kicked back $1,400 to $1,700 per month to Epps for 16 months, starting in January 2013. The Evans arrangement ended with the Epps indictment. Wingate initially rescheduled the trial until April 3, 2017, for Evans. On March 31, 2018, it was announced that Evans would waive indictment and plead guilty to a lesser offence, one that had not yet been charged. He may be the final person to be convicted in the case.\n\nOn January 9, 2017, Theresa Malone's trial was delayed, as she had suffered complications from a double lung transplant. On July 17, Malone changed her plea to guilty of the charges that involved her furnishing bribes, in amounts of $1000 to $1,750 to Epps through McCrory, in return for continuance of the medical services vendor monitoring and Medicaid eligibility contracting which the state had with AdminPros, LLC. She is scheduled to be sentenced in September 2017. However on January 9, 2018, the day before she was to be sentenced, Judge Wingate indefinitely delayed her sentencing due to her new hospitalization for additional transplant complications.\n\nIn April 2016, McCrory informed the court that he wanted to withdraw his plea bargain and change his plea to \"not guilty\", requesting a trial. As a consequence, the judge postponed Epps' sentencing to July 18, 2016. The sentencing of Epps and Brandon businessman McCrory scheduled for July 19, 2016, was delayed by Judge Wingate to give their defense lawyers additional time to review materials concerning how much money was gained by the 15 corporations paying bribes to the pair. Prosecutors hoped to use the evidence to increase the recommended prison sentences for Epps and McCrory. Epps faced a possible 23 years after his 2015 guilty plea to money laundering and filing false tax returns related to $1.47 million in bribes.\n\nNumerous companies have denied knowing their consultants were making kickbacks to Epps and others. GEO's Finance Director John Tyrell testified that, \"We often have consultants...\" GEO had been paying McCrory $5,000 monthly, which retired President and Chief Operating Officer Wayne Calabrese subsequently doubled to $10,000. Two suits had been filed against the company based on conditions prevailing at the prison.\n\nAccording to Assistant U.S. Attorney Darren LaMarca, eleven more people may face criminal charges in the Epps' bribery cases. Ten more people could face federal indictments; another could face state charges, which are expected by mid-July 2017. LaMarca estimated that the corruption's net benefit to contractors exceeded $65 million. Investigators have determined that Epps demanded bribes to exercise his influence, not only at the state level, but also among county supervisors. By controlling the placement of state inmates in county facilities, Epps had influence over local jails. In poor rural areas, these were often considered a source of employment by local residents.\n\nCecil McCrory originally pleaded guilty to a single count of money laundering conspiracy and faced up to 20 years in prison. He agreed to forfeit $1.7 million in assets. Based on the prosecutors' $65 million estimate, federal sentencing guidelines would recommend a maximum of 23 years in prison for Epps. However, his lawyer asked the judge to sentence Epps based only on the value of the bribes he collected. If the lower amount of $1.47 million is used, Epps faced a recommended sentence between 14 and 17 1/2 years, giving Judge Wingate latitude. Because of his cooperation in providing information about those paying the bribes, prosecutors will recommend that Epps get a shorter sentence. Quantifying assumed benefits to 16 contractors necessitated examining their accounts. On June 30, 2016, John Colette, Epps' defense attorney, said he received more than 1,500 pages of documents in the previous week and would require at least 30 days to review them. Four companies are asking Wingate to shield their information from public view: Four more had delayed responded to subpoenas. Wingate said he would hold a hearing by July 16, 2016, to consider requests for protective orders, and to consider contempt orders be lodged against companies which have failed to respond to disclosure requests.\n\nJudge Wingate reset Epps' sentencing for May 24–25, 2017. Although Epps' sentencing was delayed, Wingate had set sentencing for his co-defendant, McCrory, for Dec. 21-22. On December 21, 2016, Judge Wingate rejected McCrory's request to withdraw his plea, ruling it had been made with sufficient advice of counsel, and setting a new date for sentencing. It was revealed via testimony from the FBI that McCrory admitted to laundering $40,000 in cash for Epps in their first interview with him, and that he began wearing a recording device for his conversations with Epps. McCrory remained free on bail with sentencing proceedings held on February 2–3, 2017. Issues centered on how much consideration he should receive for his cooperation, including his recording of conversations with other participants in the schemes. After he was sentenced to 8 1/2 years, on February 3, McCrory continued free on bail, with the judge indicating that time could be reduced after the other defendants in the case are sentenced. McCrory's sentencing was postponed numerous times, with his attorney disputing the fine Judge Wingate intended to impose.\n\nGEO had been paying McCrory $5,000 monthly, which President and Chief Operating Officer Wayne Calabrese, who retired in 2011, subsequently doubled. GEO's Finance Director Tyrrell did not give a definitive answer the question regarding why the amount had increased. He speculated, however, that it might have been because on August 10, 2010, GEO Group, bought out Cornell Companies operations. Cornell operated the troubled Walnut Grove Youth Correctional Facility where it had been accused in a lawsuit of prisoners mistreatment. Its settlement included conversion of the prison to adults-only. McCrory remained free on bail, with sentencing proceedings postponed three times in 2017. Disputed issues concerned how much consideration he should receive for his cooperation, including his recording of conversations with other scheme participants. His imprisonment was delayed after his attorney requested that the amount of his initial prospective $150,000 fine be reduced. Wingate had already dropped it to $20,000. It was necessary for McCrory to liquidate assets to be able to pay the million-plus forfeiture sum. Mississippi Attorney General Jim Hood subpoenaed McCrory who provided a deposition in Hood's civil cases against corrupt companies and bureaucrats who obtained contracts while Epps' was MDOC Commissioner. This included the largest, Florida's GEO Group. The prosecutors expect a final judgment to include setting a new date for McCrory to report to prison.\nOn November 1, 2016, while out on bail and still awaiting sentencing, Epps was arrested by the Flowood, Mississippi Police Department. He was charged with breaking into his former primary residence which he had previously turned over to the federal government as part of his plea agreement. He had removed light fixtures and other items. They were recovered at his nearby second home. Appearing in court on November 3, Epps said he had made a \"terrible mistake,\" and only wanted to retrieve some outside floodlights for Halloween. The court was to consider if the possible revocation of his bond was warranted. On November 15, 2016, Epps petitioned the court that he be allowed release to home confinement. Epps remained in jail after his November arrest on burglary charges. On December 23, Judge Wingate denied his request to be released on house arrest, saying he would be held in jail until his May 2017 sentencing.\n\nAlthough pre-trial federal inmates residing in the central portion of the state of Mississippi are normally held in the Madison County Jail, Epps, for his protection, was instead held in solitary confinement in a correctional facility in Mason, Tennessee; Epps protested his solitary confinement status. He was transferred to the Madison County Jail before, on May 25, 2017, when Judge Wingate gave him a federal prison sentence of 235 months (19.6 years). Wingate, who was appointed to the federal bench in 1985 said, \"This is the largest graft operation that certainly I have seen, and I have seen a lot.\" Wingate cited the Flowood incident as the reason why he gave a sentence that was longer than the one recommended by prosecutors, 13 years. By July 2017 he was moved to Federal Correctional Institution, Seagoville in Seagoville, Texas.\n\nOn July 20, 2016, in a seven-count indictment returned by a federal grand jury, Dr. Carl Reddix, an ob/gyn and owner of Heath Assurance LLC, was charged with paying bribes and kickbacks to Epps in return for contract awards with the MDOC and for-profit prison operators. The attorney for Reddix said Epps demanded bribe payments, an assertion also made by other defendants. The medical contracts for four for-profit Mississippi prisons held by Wexford Health Sources were sequentially taken from Wexford and subsequently awarded to Reddix. In 2008, his company received a contract to \"provide inmate health care services\" at the Walnut Grove Correctional Facility; it was renewed in 2011. Transfers of contracts for East Mississippi Correctional Facility and Marshall County Correctional Facility from Wexford to Health Assurance followed in 2012. The fourth and final contract was awarded in 2013 for Wilkinson County Correctional Facility. Judge Wingate recused himself from trying the Reddix case, which was reassigned to Judge Daniel Jordan. In a plea bargain, on May 3, 2017, Reddix, who was accused of paying over $170,000 in bribes, pleaded guilty to a single count of bribery, but his sentencing was postponed until September, with the defense challenging the prosecutors request for payment of $1.27 million in restitution. Reddix was sentenced by Chief Judge Daniel Jordan to six years in prison, plus two years of supervised release. He was fined $15,000 and required to forfeit more than $1.2 million. U.S. Attorney Mike Hurst said that Reddix had personally made 36 bribe payments to Epps over a three year period. He reported to prison on January 29, 2018 and is being held at the Federal Correctional Institution, Butner 1 Medium custody, in North Carolina.\n\nOn January 19, 2017, businessman Sam Waggoner was sentenced to five years in federal prison with two years of supervised release and a $200,000 fine. Waggoner received 5 percent of the revenue as a consultant for Global Tel-Link, which provided phone services at Mississippi state prisons. He told the FBI that before their investigation started, he wrote Epps saying he wanted to end the payments. Epps ripped the letter into \"teeny, tiny pieces,\" flushing it down a toilet, and telling him their arrangement would continue. Waggoner said: \"He was basically my boss.\" Waggoner paid bribes to The bribes were paid from 2012 until at least Aug. 26, 2014. Waggoner is being held at the Federal Medical Center, Fort Worth. His anticipated release date is July 15, 2021.\n\nEpps personally received at least the $1.47 million in bribes for steering what Assistant US Attorney LaMarca estimated was $800 million in contracts between 2006 and 2014. Judge Wingate will hear the cases of the others who were charged with bribing Epps.\n\nIrb Benjamin represented Alcorn County as a Democrat in the state House from 1976–80 and the state Senate 1984-92. He later worked for Republican Lieutenant Governor Eddie Briggs, later a gubernatorial nominee. Alcorn County paid Benjamin, president and lobbyist for Mississippi Correctional Management (MCM), $114,000 a year for services to it, although he lived more than 200 miles away. The attorney for the Alcorn County Board of Supervisors said the supervisors were not required to seek bids before giving Benjamin the contract as warden, because it was a contract for services and was thus exempt from bid laws. Benjamin got $5,000 a month to handle accreditation by the American Correctional Association for the Alcorn's Regional Correctional Facility and another $4,500 a month as warden of the jail. He formed MCM in 1996, when the state Department of Corrections and counties started hiring private contractors to operate prisons and smaller regional jails. It operated the Grenada County jail for several years. Benjamin said the company also has jail accreditation contracts worth $4,000 or $5,000 a month with other counties, including Hancock, Holmes, Marion, Pearl River, Washington and Yazoo. In the past, he also worked as a $3,000-a-month jail consultant for DeSoto County. On June 8, 2008, the DeSoto County Board of Supervisors supervisors had approved his contract, noting: “Mr. Benjamin was recommended by Commissioner Epps at the state level.” Benjamin said that he was not aware that Epps had recommended him. \n\nOn May 24, 2017, LaMarca indicated that six or seven investigations remained open, in Mississippi and Louisiana. An additional indictment had been obtained but remained sealed. At the time of the sentencing of Epps, LaMarca and John Colette, attorney for Epps, said his cooperation could lead to charges against six or seven others, including conspirators from outside Mississippi. \n\nIn October 2018, four Louisiana businessmen, including Michael LeBlanc Sr. and his son, Michael Jr., Tawasky L. Ventroy, and Jacque B. Jackson were indicted and arrested on charges of conspiracy, paying bribes and attempting to pay bribes to Epps and Kemper County, Mississippi, Sheriff James Moore. In the month before the Epps and McCrory indictments became public in 2014, LeBlanc Sr. called Epps to confirm Ventroy would meet with Epps. Ventroy brought $2,000 to Epps. LeBlanc Sr. and agreed to give something with a value of $5,000 or more with the intent to have Epps help with the awarding and retaining the contracts for LeBlanc Sr.’s company for inmate commissary services and telephone services with the Kemper County Regional Correctional Facility and elsewhere. Jackson allegedly worked for LeBlanc Jr. to help secure the contracts. After the initial Epps' indictment, bribes were also made to Moore, who was covertly cooperating with the FBI investigation. U.S. Attorney Michael Hurst of the Southern District of Mississippi thanked Moore for \"coming forward and working with us to catch those who violate our corruption laws.” \n\nIn April 2017, consultant Michael Goddard pleaded guilty to lying to the FBI regarding a bribe he received from Health Assurance in connection with a jail health care contract for Jefferson County, Alabama. Goddard was scheduled to be sentenced August 2, 2017, and faced up to five years in prison and a $250,000 fine. He is being held at the Federal Correctional Institution, Butner Low custody, North Carolina, with a scheduled release date of November 1, 2023. His scheduled release date is November 1, 2023.\n\nBefore Judge Wingate pronounced his sentence in July 2017, Epps explained he had considerable time to reflect upon what he'd done, asking forgiveness of the many he had harmed. He said, \"It comes back to greed. I made some stupid mistakes I will regret for the rest of my life.” Judge Wingate characterized Epps's conduct as, “staggering.\" He continued, “Mississippi is still in shock. It was an act of betrayal. He has bruised the image of Mississippi and given joy to many of the inmates he’s overseen who can now say the head of the state prison system was just as corrupt as any of them.” He sentenced Epps to 19 years in federal prison. The state burglary charges concerning his former home were resolved on February 20, 2018, when Epps pleaded guilty and was sentenced to seven years, the state sentence to run concurrently with his federal prison sentence.\n\nOn February 8, 2017, Mississippi Attorney General Jim Hood announced he had filed civil cases against 15 corporations and individuals who had engaged in contracts with the MDOC and Epps, seeking damages and punitive damages. He stated, \n“The state of Mississippi has been defrauded through a pattern of bribery, kickbacks, misrepresentations, fraud, concealment, money laundering and other wrongful conduct.” He continued, “These individuals and corporations that benefited by stealing from taxpayers must not only pay the state's losses, but state law requires that they must also forfeit and return the entire amount of the contracts paid by the state. We are also seeking punitive damages to punish these conspirators and to deter those who might consider giving or receiving kickbacks in the future.\" Besides Teresa Malone and Carl Reddix, the defendants included Michael Reddix (who had not been charged by the US Attorney); Andrew Jenkins; Management & Training Corporation; The GEO Group, Inc.; Cornell Companies, Inc.; Wexford Health Sources, Inc.; The Bantry Group Corporation; AdminPros, L.L.C.; CGL Facility Management, LLC; Mississippi Correctional Management, Inc.; Drug Testing Corporation; Global Tel*Link Corporation; Health Assurance, LLC; Keefe Commissary Network, LLC of St. Louis; Sentinel Offender Services, L.L.C.; AJA Management & Technical Services, Inc., and the Branan Medical Corporation;\n\nOn May 18, 2017, Hood announced that the state had quickly settled the first suit for two million dollars. The defendant was Alere Incorporated, which had purchased the Branan Medical Corporation. Ten lawsuits in bribery schemes remain pending. Those have accused at least 10 individuals and 11 out-of-state corporations of using so-called “consultants” to gain more than $800 million in Mississippi prison contracts.\n\n"}
{"id": "52131417", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52131417", "title": "Dainton Report", "text": "Dainton Report\n\nThe Dainton Report was a 1968 British government report on secondary schools in the UK, also known as \"The Swing away from Science\".\n\nThe report was produced in March 1968 by Frederick Dainton, Baron Dainton FRS, who was the Vice-Chancellor of the University of Nottingham. In October 1966 there were 1,600 vacant places in the science and technology faculties of British universities. Sheffield-born Fred Dainton was a Professor of Chemistry for fifteen years, researching radiation chemistry, and was later knighted in 1971. He died in December 1997.\n\nThe report was published by the Dainton Committee of the Department for Education and Science. The Dainton Committee was formed in 1965 by the Council for Scientific Policy.\n\nThe report found that there was a reduction in the numbers of people entering science and engineering at university. The report was also known as the \"Enquiry into the Flow of Candidates in Science and Technology into Higher Education\".\n\nAround 40,000 of those at sixth-form were studying science in 1964; he predicted this would lower to around 30,000 in 1971, when the total numbers in sixth-form would rise from 107,000 to 130,000. One fifth of those taking science at sixth-form were female. In 1962 around 42% were opting for science at school, but by 1967 it was 31%; it was predicted this would lower to 25% by 1971. 45.9% of university admissions were to science courses, which had lowered to 40.6% in 1967. At the same time, those opting to study social sciences at university was rapidly increasing, doubling in proportion from 1962 to 1967.\n\nThe report wanted to improve the position of science, technology, and engineering in the education system, and society. The report wanted to increase the supply of scientists and technologists, which the report claimed, was limited by the immature and misinformed choices of 13 and 14 year olds at school, making premature decisions, often unfavourable to a career in science or technology. The report claimed that fewer people were choosing science, because of schools making 13 or 14 year olds decide between either arts or sciences. The report wanted to create less irrevocable decisions at school, where science was not part of that decision. 14 year olds were deciding not to study science, which was largely irrevocable. The report had found that heavy factual content of science courses had deterred 14 year olds from choosing science. The cut-off point of studying science for many at school was the age of 14.\n\n\nThe Schools Council had also recommended to universities that entrance should be two GCE A-level passes, with four \"elective\" courses chosen by individual schools. Universities were asked to reply to the report later in 1968.\n\n"}
{"id": "5694182", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5694182", "title": "Decentralized computing", "text": "Decentralized computing\n\nDecentralized computing is the allocation of resources, both hardware and software, to each individual workstation, or office location. In contrast, centralized computing exists when the majority of functions are carried out, or obtained from a remote centralized location. Decentralized computing is a trend in modern-day business environments. This is the opposite of centralized computing, which was prevalent during the early days of computers. \nA decentralized computer system has many benefits over a conventional centralized network. Desktop computers have advanced so rapidly, that their potential performance far exceeds the requirements of most business applications. This results in most desktop computers remaining idle (in relation to their full potential). A decentralized system can use the potential of these systems to maximize efficiency. However, it is debatable whether these networks increase overall effectiveness.\n\nAll computers have to be updated individually with new software, unlike a centralised computer system. Decentralised systems still enable file sharing and all computers can share peripherals such as printers and scanners as well as modems, allowing all the computers in the network to connect to the internet.\n\nA collection of decentralized computers systems are components of a larger computer network, held together by local stations of equal importance and capability. These systems are capable of running independently of each other.\n\nThe origins of decentralized computing originate from the work of David Chaum. \n\nDuring 1979 he conceived the first concept of a decentralized computer system known as Mix Network. It enabled for an anonymous email communications network which decentralized the authentication of the messages in a protocol which would become the precursor to Onion Routing, the protocol of the infamous TOR browser. Through this initial development of an anonymous communications network, David Chaum applied his Mix Network philosophy to design the world's first decentralized payment system and patented it in 1980 (Patent US4529870). Later in 1982, for his PhD dissertation, he wrote about the need for decentralized computing services in the paper Computer Systems Established, Maintained and Trusted by Mutually Suspicious Groups. He would go on to launch the world's first decentralized payment system in 1990 called eCash. (Digicash)\n\nBased on a \"grid model\" a peer-to-peer system, or P2P system, is a collection of applications run on several local computers, which connect remotely to each other to complete a function or a task. There is no main operating system to which satellite systems are subordinate. This approach to software development (and distribution) affords developers great savings, as they don't have to create a central control point. An example application is LAN messaging which allows users to communicate without a central server.\n\nOne of the most interesting debates over decentralized computing involved Napster, a music file sharing application, which granted users access to an enormous database of files. Record companies brought legal action against Napster, blaming the system for lost record sales. Napster was found in violation of copyright laws by distributing unlicensed software, and was shut down.\n\nAfter the fall of Napster, there was a demand for a file sharing system that would be less vulnerable to litigation. Gnutella, a decentralized system, was developed. This system allowed files to be queried and shared between users, without a central directory, and therefore shielded the network from legal issues of individual users.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6746601", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6746601", "title": "Disabled Peoples' International", "text": "Disabled Peoples' International\n\nDisabled Peoples' International (DPI) is a cross disability, consumer controlled international non-governmental organization (INGO) headquartered in Ottawa, Ontario, Canada and with regional offices in Asia-Pacific, the Middle East, Europe, Africa, Latin America, and North America and the Caribbean. \nDPI is a network of national organizations or assemblies of disabled people, established in 1981 by Singaporean disability rights activist, Ron Chandran-Dudley, to promote the human rights of disabled people through full participation, equalization of opportunity and development. DPI assists organizations in over 152 nations with the day to day issues of helping disabled people. They also host assemblies and symposiums across the world with their different national branches.\n\nThe goals of DPI are to:\n\nDPI holds special consultative status with the United Nations and collaborates with many international organizations and governments of the world.\n\nIn 1983 Disabled Peoples' International filed a complaint against the United States with the Inter-American Commission on Human Rights due to a brief military intervention in Grenada where a mental institution was bombed by the United States, injuring six and killing sixteen people.\n\nHuman Rights Defenders was started by DPI in 2011 to help people with disabilities in developing countries. They want to improve the legal, social, and economical issues that affect people with disabilities. As of 2013, Human Rights Defenders established two Women's Global Networks that promote rights of women with disabilities. They also set up a youth organization to promote rights for youths with disabilities. The Project was closed in 2013.\n\nHatchery for Guyana was started so that people with disabilities in Guyana would have honest employment. This project sold baby chicks to people with disabilities to rear so that they could earn an honest living and make a tangible contribution to society. Though DPI did not start this project, it did take place in funding it.\n\n"}
{"id": "653913", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=653913", "title": "Double standard", "text": "Double standard\n\nA double standard is the application of different sets of principles for similar situations. \n\nIt is most commonly seen as a decisive psychological tool used to defend one’s ego or subconscious from the shortcomings of one’s own set of values or contrasting principles. It is the employment of a hypocritical and biased standpoint, with which to separate the seemingly bad in others from the bad in oneself by having two sets of rules for the same concept. Margaret Eichler, author of \"The Double Standard,\" explains that a double standard “implies that two things which are the same are measured by different standards” (Eichler 1980:15).\n\nA gender based double standard is considered a same behavior exhibited by a man or woman which is evaluated differently. Types of these judgements include sexual behaviors such as premarital-sex, in which there is a need to protect a daughter’s sexual purity and not the son’s. Other behaviors sometimes judged differently for each gender include dating, cohabitation, age of marriage, extramarital sex, sexual assault, sexual harassment, domestic violence, hypergamy, bigamy, remarriage, and remaining single.\n\nA double standard can develop in a person’s mind for a multitude of reasons including; finding an excuse for oneself, emotions clouding judgement, twisting facts to support beliefs such as confirmation biases, cognitive biases, attraction biases, prejudices, or the need to be right. Human beings have a tendency to evaluate the actions of the people they interact with based on who did them.\n\nA double standard may take the form of an instance in which certain concepts (often, for example, a word, phrase, social norm, or rule) are perceived as acceptable to be applied by one group of people, but are considered unacceptable—taboo—when applied by another group. A double standard can therefore be described as a biased or morally unfair application of the principle that all are equal in their freedoms. Such double standards are seen as unjustified because they violate a basic maxim of modern legal jurisprudence: that all parties should stand equal before the law. Double standards also violate the principle of justice known as impartiality, which is based on the assumption that the same standards should be applied to all people, without regard to subjective bias or favoritism based on social class, rank, ethnicity, gender, religion, sexual orientation, age, or other distinctions. A double standard violates this principle by holding different people accountable according to different standards.\n\nA policy of double standards is a situation when the assessment of the same phenomenon, process or event in the international relations depends on character of the relations of the estimating parties with assessment objects. At identical intrinsic filling of action of one country get support and a justification, and other – is condemned and punished.\n\nThe following phrase became an example of policy of double standards: \"One man's terrorist is another man's freedom fighter\", entered into use by the British writer Gerald Seymour in his work \"Harry's Game\" in 1975.\n\n"}
{"id": "22179944", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22179944", "title": "Enough Project", "text": "Enough Project\n\nThe Enough Project is a Washington, D.C. based non-profit organization that was founded in 2007. The project was co-founded by the Center for American Progress and the International Crisis Group in 2007. Its stated mission is to end genocide and crimes against humanity. The Enough Project conducts research in several conflict areas in Africa including Sudan, South Sudan, the Democratic Republic of the Congo, the Central African Republic, and the areas controlled by the Lord's Resistance Army (LRA). The Enough Project facilitates several campaigns and initiatives which work to bring attention to these crises, including The Sentry, Raise Hope for Congo, and the Satellite Sentinel Project. Its co-founders are John Prendergast and Gayle Smith.\n\nIn 2014, the Enough Project released a report on war lordism and the mines of the Congo. The report indicated that due to the economic pressure of a provision of the United States Dodd-Frank Financial Reform Act, which required any company that might be using \"conflict minerals\" to register with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and publish their supply chain, control over the mines had passed out of the hands of the warlords and local militias. In 2015, the Enough Project launched The Sentry, a project designed to gather evidence and analyze the financing and operation of African conflicts.\n"}
{"id": "20517051", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20517051", "title": "European Schoolnet", "text": "European Schoolnet\n\nEuropean Schoolnet or EUN is a network of 31 European Ministries of Education, based in Brussels. As a not-for-profit organisation, it aims to bring innovation in teaching and learning to its key stakeholders: Ministries of Education, schools, teachers, researchers, and industry partners.\n\nSince its founding in 1997 with development funded initially through the EU Multimedia 1010 initiative (Holmes, 2013a, b; Leask and Younie, 2001; Simeca et al., 2009) and later through ministry support, European Schoolnet has helped schools make effective use of educational technologies, equipping both teachers and pupils with the skills to achieve in the knowledge society. European Schoolnet provides both Ministries and schools with: information and services relating to the innovative use of educational technology; outreach campaigns on specific educational topics such as maths, science and technology; and research activities.\n\nEuropean Schoolnet pledges to:\n\nEuropean Schoolnet involves thousands of schools in various pilot projects and studies, testing new learning activities and technologies in the classroom, and exploring the use of new pedagogical tools in teaching STEM (science, technology, engineering and maths). European Schoolnet identifies and develops learning resources in various languages that teachers across Europe can use in their teaching, provides peer-to-peer online communities where teachers can exchange ideas and share resources, as well as offers various training opportunities online and offline.\n\nEuropean Schoolnet runs European-funded projects with the European Commission, Ministries of Education and industry partners. These projects include iTEC (Designing the Future Classroom) and inGenious (attracting pupils towards science, technology, engineering and maths). A number of services are also coordinated for teachers and policymakers, such as Scientix, to promote science education, the Learning Resource Exchange, an online catalog of more than 200,000 OERs and Insafe, dedicated to digital citizenship skills and online safety.\n\nEuropean Schoolnet has worked towards enhancing cooperation across Europe between schools as the coordinator of the eTwinning Central Support Service since 2004. And it has also contributed to awareness-raising campaigns across Europe on the importance of gaining e-Skills (e-Skills Week), and transforming STEM education to increase the appeal of those sectors among pupils (ECB-Ingenious project). The E-Twinning initiative provides a private environment connecting schools and teachers across and beyond Europe.\n\nIn 2012, European Schoolnet created the Future Classroom Lab in Brussels. A unique hub for showcasing technological and pedagogical innovation, the Future Classroom Lab is supported by sponsors such as Microsoft, Samsung, Acer, Cisco, Lego and many others. Projects dedicated to teachers' professional development are being run on a continual basis, using the Future Classroom Lab to identify, analyse, and mainstream the best innovative practices in education, and equipping teachers with the necessary skills to develop their teaching practice.\n\nIn December 2013, European Schoolnet launched the European Schoolnet Academy to build on its successful experiences and make its training opportunities available to a greater number of primary and secondary school teachers across Europe. The Academy is a platform where primary and secondary school teachers can learn about innovation in the school and classroom through free online professional development courses.\n\n"}
{"id": "56855350", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56855350", "title": "Free Sicilians", "text": "Free Sicilians\n\nFree Sicilians (; ; SL) is a Sicilian nationalist and pro-independence political party in Sicily, Italy. The party was founded in 2016 in order to revive the island's right to self-government.\n\nFree Sicilians was founded by Massimo Costa, Antonella Pititto and Enzo Cassata. The party was launched on 3 January 2016 during a meeting in Pergusa. On the same occasion, the economist Massimo Costa, professor at the University of Palermo, became president of the party.\n\nFree Sicilians took part in the local elections for the first time in the spring of 2017, presenting its own mayoral candidate and its own electoral list in Palermo, capital of Sicily. Ciro Lomonte, an architect and scholar of the Salingaros Group, was chosen as mayoral candidate. During his electoral campaign, Lomonte focused on the issues of the urban renewal, the identity revival of Palermo and the violations of the Statute of Sicily by the Italian Government. Lomonte scored 4787 votes (1,76%), while the list scored 4041 votes (1,71%).\n\nRoberto La Rosa, a lawyer and former deputy secretary of the \"Sicilian National Front\", was chosen as President of Sicily candidate for the 2017 regional election. Free Sicilians was the only pro-independence party competing for the Sicilian Regional Assembly in 2017. \"Economic independence\" was the key concept of the electoral campaign. According to the party's program, this key concept would be pursued through the adoption of the special economic zone and a complementary currency called \"Tarì\", like the ancient coin of the Kingdom of Sicily. During the campaign, La Rosa also suggested the creation of the Sicilian national football team as other autonomous regions and unrecognised states did before Sicily. La Rosa scored 14,656 votes (0.70%), while the list scored 12,600 votes (0.66%).\n\nOn December 2017 Ciro Lomonte was chosen as provisional secretary until the first Congress of the party.\n\nFree Sicilians believes that Sicily is a European stateless nation with its own political history, language, culture, traditions and national identity. The party describes the current political and economic condition of Sicily as a case of internal colonialism. In particular, Free Sicilians complains the persistent non-implementation of the Autonomous Statute of Sicily and, for this reason, aims to gradually achieve the full independence of the island in order to create a sovereign state. The party describes its ideology as \"souverainist\", in opposition to the excesses of globalization.\n\nThe responsible for the international relations of Free Sicilians is Francesco Marsala, president of the cultural association \"Sicilia-Catalunya\", who attended as international observer during the 2017 Catalan independence referendum. On February and March 2018, Free Sicilians hosted the first delegations of Catalan nationalist parties (\"Estat Català\", \"Esquerra Republicana\") at its headquarters in Palermo.\n\nOn December 2017 Free Sicilians has congratulated the Corsican nationalist alliance \"Pè a Corsica\" for the success in the Corsican territorial election.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "438727", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=438727", "title": "Green armies", "text": "Green armies\n\nThe Green armies (), also known as the Green Army (Зелёная Армия) or Greens (Зелёные), were armed peasant groups which fought against all governments in the Russian Civil War from 1917 to 1922. The Green armies were semi-organized local militias that opposed the Bolsheviks, Whites, and foreign interventionists, and fought to protect their communities from requisitions or reprisals carried out by third parties. The Green armies were politically and ideologically neutral, but at times associated with the Socialist-Revolutionary Party, by far the largest grouping of the Russian Constituent Assembly elected in 1917. The Green armies had at least tacit support throughout much of Russia, however their primary base, the peasantry, were largely reluctant to wage an active campaign during the Russian Civil War and eventually dissolved following Bolshevik victory in 1922. \n\nThe Green movement formed as a popular reaction of the peasantry against Bolshevik activities in the countryside during the Russian Civil War, which began after the October Revolution in November 1917. The Bolshevik government instituted the War Communism policy in 1918, sending officials through the peasant lands of central Russia to collect supplies that the state needed to sustain the military and to begin building a socialist economy. Official requisitioning of peasant property occurred, with common targets including recruits for the Red Army, horses, and grain. Requisitioning units and agricultural overseers often overstepped their official duties, plundering households indiscriminately and harming villagers. The official policies inflamed passions, and their harsh implementation engendered widespread resentment to the Bolshevik regime. The bloody repression of any popular unrest further alienated the peasantry, and when the Green armies began to form, Bolshevik excesses led many peasants to devote themselves to anti-Bolshevik activities.\n\nDespite Soviet attempts to associate the Green armies with White leadership, such a designation overemphasizes the political aspects of the movement. In a broad sense, the Green armies were spontaneous manifestations of peasant discontent rather than of any specific ideology. By 1920, the Bolsheviks had secured victory over the Whites and the peasant soldiers of the Red Army, outraged at the prospect of continuing to violently oppress their own class in the interest of the new government, deserted and consolidated in groups in the forests, eventually leading to their \"Green\" designation. While these groups primarily opposed the Bolsheviks, they often did so without a plan or alternative form of government in mind; rather, they simply wanted to rid the countryside of Bolshevik influence by any means necessary.\n\nBesides Soviet records of their oppositional activity, there is very little personal information about the Green leaders, described as \"men who acted and wrote not\" due to the widespread illiteracy and spontaneous nature of their movement. In order to build substantial forces, a motivated individual would lead a group of soldiers through the countryside, enlisting village inhabitants and deserters from the Red Army along the way. The leaders would enter a village and make an announcement, employing simple messages and vague, reactionary goals in their rhetoric to rouse enthusiasm. They often exaggerated Bolshevik weakness and opposition victories as a means to convince listeners to join. By keeping the objectives simple, the recruitment indiscriminate, and the mood optimistic, Green leaders succeeded in provoking a sense among the peasants that they could make a significant dent in Bolshevik power. They also drew support from disillusioned urban and railroad workers, who had \"fled back to the villages\" and informed the peasants about the horrendous working conditions of developing industry.\n\nWhile it can be difficult to distinguish Green armies from other forms of peasant unrest, they were marked by concentrated leadership and distinct units, displaying a higher level of organization than most peasant uprisings. For instance, Aleksandr Antonov's Green army in Tambov had a medical staff, reinforcement brigades, and a complex system of communication and intelligence that employed women, children, and the elderly. Notably, Green movements developed in the regions of Tambov, Novgorod, Tula, Ryazan, Tver, Voronezh, Kostroma, Syzran, Gomel, Kursk, Bryansk, and Oryol, among many others. Estimations of Green forces ranged from a few hundred to fifty-thousand. Apart from the weapons that Red deserters brought with them, the Greens stole war material from defeated Bolshevik soldiers, from Bolshevik supply buildings, and from abandoned garrisons of the former Imperial Russian Army. They incited armed resistance to Bolshevik institutions in nearby villages and towns, bragging of peasant victories and recruiting new soldiers, sometimes by force. Green bands conducted highly mobile guerrilla warfare, attacking Bolshevik communication systems, mills, railways, and factories, as well as Red Army detachments if they were comparable in size. If the peasants successfully overwhelmed Bolsheviks, they cruelly punished soldiers and officials, often mutilating bodies, torturing families, or burying victims alive.\n\nGreen armies often cooperated with other opposition groups – including anarchists and moderate left-wing Socialist-Revolutionary Party – in concerted efforts against the Bolsheviks, but generally for strategic reasons rather than ideological ones. While disillusioned Whites joined the Green cause and led some of the peasant bands, the Bolsheviks overstated the extent to which the two elements were related. Prone to follow fiery rhetoric and promises of violent revenge, the peasants usually rejected leaders who announced a primarily political goal or who represented the more moderate interests of the Socialist-Revolutionaries and other parties associated with the Provisional Government of 1917. \"They preferred waging a desperate and lonely struggle on their own to helping the oppressors of the past [the Whites] achieve victory over the oppressors of the present [the Reds.]\" \n\nThe Bolshevik government tried to build an anti-revolutionary, anti-communist image for the Green armies. Provincial Communist officials announced to locals that the Green armies were a subsection of the villainous White movement, despite the fact that Green armies were generally just as hostile to the Whites as they were to the Reds. The Bolsheviks also exaggerated the influence of the kulaks in Green armies, who were undoubtedly involved but hardly the driving force of the movement.\n\nThe Bolsheviks initially believed that they could easily defeat the Greens, treating them as a hopeless cause both in their propaganda and in their military strategies. Instead of focusing armed attention on the Greens as a whole, the Reds treated each peasant army as a specific instance of unrest, suppressing harshly and further angering the peasant population. By the time that Vladimir Lenin and the Bolsheviks realized the strength of the Green movement, it had grown into a serious social and military threat to Bolshevik power. Some scholars credit the Green movement with indirectly forcing the Communist Party to change its economic strategy in 1921 (see New Economic Policy), and yet, while the Greens certainly contributed to changes in Bolshevik policy, the extent of their influence is open to debate. It is far less contestable that the New Economic Policy – along with increased rainfall – quelled the Green movement by improving rural conditions and thus damaged the Green armies’ foundation for successful recruitment – peasant discontent. By the summer of 1922, as the Bolsheviks were securing their victory in the civil war, the Green troops had all but disappeared.\n\nAside from the Bolshevik response, a number of internal aspects of the Green movement led to its failure. Green activity often amounted to violence without an actual goal outside of murdering communists and interrupting their economic and political activity. Thus, the armies rarely moved outside of their original geographic region. When the Greens conquered towns or villages, they neglected to install themselves politically and simply left the territory to be retaken later by Bolsheviks. Furthermore, there was a great deal of tension within the bands, which often included agrarian peasants, kulaks, workers, and Whites, many of whom possessed preexisting resentment towards each other. The Green armies were permanently underfunded, low on supplies, and would never have stood a chance against the Red Army which, despite their flaws, were much more organized and whose soldiers’ morale improved as a result of greater, more frequent victories.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26942388", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26942388", "title": "Haiti economic reforms of 1996", "text": "Haiti economic reforms of 1996\n\nThe Haiti economic reforms of 1996 were designed to rebuild economy of Haiti after significant downturns suffered in the previous years. The primary reforms were centered on the Emergency Economic Recovery Plan (EERP) and were followed by budget reforms.\n\nFollowing the 1991 coup d'état which removed democratically elected president Jean-Bertrand Aristide from power, Haiti suffered from internal instability and was placed under an international embargo. The embargo, coupled with the irresponsible economic and financial policies of the newly installed authorities, had devastating effects on the economy of Haiti. It is estimated that in the years 1991-1994, GDP declined by over a third, and inflation at least doubled to 50%,and unemployment reached over 80%. Deforestation and land overuse became increasingly common. As a result of continuing economic problems, Haiti could not escape being poorest country in the Western hemisphere.\n\nThe US troops restored president Aristide to power in 1994. Next year, he was peaceful replaced by René Préval, and the US troops were phased out by the United Nations Mission in Haiti. At that time Haiti enjoyed a spotlight in front of the international community, and there was much international interest in helping to rebuild the country.\n\nFollowing the lifting of the embargo and the reestablishment of democratic rule, the government of Haiti (Haitian Ministry of Economy and Finance (MEF)) initiated the Emergency Economic Recovery Plan (EERP). EERP was developed, alongside the MEF, by the World Bank, the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB), the United States Agency for International Development (USAID), the United Nations Development Program (UNDP), and the Organization of American States (OAS). The plan was aiming for rapid macroeconomic stabilization and to attract private foreign sector investments. EERP reforms included rebuilding of public administration, privatization (selling off state-owned enterprises), private business promotion, investments in agriculture, municipal, transport, sanitation, health, and education infrastructures, and addressing environmental concerns (with reforestation and soil conservation).\n\nEERP, seen as neoliberal, was criticized for insufficient attention to Haiti's dominant agricultural sector, which employs about 65% of the population; less than 1% of the total funds were allocated for farmers (although more was allocated to supporting areas such as road infrastructure and irrigation system). There was also criticism of unpopular reforms such as privatization, wage freezes and the lowering of tariffs. Reduction in agricultural tariffs, while resulting in lowered food prices, also exposed local farmers to strong international competition; not all farmers could compete.\n\nAfter implementation of the EERP, Haitian real GDP grew by 4.5 percent in the fiscal year 1994/95; inflation slowed; and the value of the Haitian currency, the gourde, stabilized on the international markets. However, despite signs of economic recovery Haiti faced the problem of a growing budget deficit. The external current account deficit reached 19 percent of GDP fueled by the resumption of capital inflows and foreign aid.\n\nOn October 1996 the International Monetary Fund (IMF) approved a three-year credit for Haiti of SDR 91.1 million (about US$131 million in 1996 value) to support the Haiti's economic reform program for 1996-99. The planned reforms included increasing taxes, and modernizing fiscal practices. The IMF noted that spending in social areas aimed at addressing the issue of poverty should increase, with the help of foreign aid from \"humanitarian organizations and external aid agencies.\".\n\nThe reforms attempted by the Haitian Ministry of Economy and Finance were severely delayed by political instability in Haiti, such as the resignation of the government in June 1997 (see Haitian general election, 1997) and the suspension of all \"new business\" by Parliament. Some reforms proved unpopular with politicians, such as privatization and delays in implementations of the reforms led to freezes of the promised international assistance.\nThere were also various problems with budget reforms implementation. C. Bernard Myers enumerated them as follows:\n"}
{"id": "42118858", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42118858", "title": "Independence We Veneto", "text": "Independence We Veneto\n\nIndependence We Veneto (, INV) is a Venetist and separatist coalition in Veneto, Italy.\n\nINV, which was represented in the Regional Council of Veneto by Antonio Guadagnini from June 2015 to March 2016, is part of the larger coalition led by Liga Veneta–Lega Nord and supports Luca Zaia's second government.\n\nThe coalition was originally launched as United for Independent Veneto (\"Uniti per il Veneto Indipendente\") in Venice on 5 March 2014. Its founding parties were:\n\nIn July 2014 the coalition gave birth to We Independent Veneto (\"Noi Veneto Indipendente\"), as a joint list for the 2015 regional election:\n\nAfter the exit of Chiavegato and his group from the alliance and their alignment with Alessio Morosin's Venetian Independence, the remaining six parties of NVI formed a joint list for the 2015 regional election named Independence We Veneto with Zaia, a sort of re-edition of 2010's North-East Union, but with a separatist platform and in support of Luca Zaia, incumbent President of Veneto and candidate of Liga Veneta–Lega Nord.\n\nIn the election, the list won 2.7% of the vote (0.2pp more than Venetian Independence) and Antonio Guadagnini of Veneto State was elected regional councillor in the provincial constituency of Vicenza. Soon after being installed, Guadagnini, who was elected Vice President of the Regional Council of Veneto, formed a pro-independence \"inter-group\", which was joined from the start by Stefano Valdegamberi, re-elected councillor in Zaia's personal list, and Massimiliano Barison of Forza Italia.\n\nIn March 2016, Guadagnini severed his ties with INV and changed his affiliation in the Council to We Are Veneto, causing a strong reaction by INV leaders.\n\nIn May 2017, the party was a founding member of Great North (GN), a liberal and federalist party. This alignment would be short-lived: in November 2017 INV broke with GN, after the latter had welcomed Veneto First and former members of Veneto State, without consulting and/or engaging INV. Moreover, INV criticised GN's anti-Lega Nord stance: while differing from that party on several issues, INV wanted to continue to cooperate with it.\n\nIn the 2017 local elections, the party fielded lists only in a few places, including Belluno (3.8% under the \"Bellunese Civilisation\" banner) and Marcon (3.0%).\n\nAfter having officially presented its symbol for the 2018 general election, INV chose not to participate.\n\n"}
{"id": "14871", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14871", "title": "International Hydrographic Organization", "text": "International Hydrographic Organization\n\nThe International Hydrographic Organization (IHO) is the inter-governmental organisation representing hydrography. \n\nA principal aim of the IHO is to ensure that the world’s seas, oceans and navigable waters are properly surveyed and charted. It does this through the setting of international standards, the co-ordination of the endeavours of the world's national hydrographic offices, and through its capacity building programme.\nThe IHO enjoys observer status at the United Nations where it is the recognised competent authority on hydrographic surveying and nautical charting. When referring to hydrography and nautical charting in Conventions and similar Instruments, it is the IHO standards and specifications that are normally used.\n\nThe IHO was established in 1921 as the International Hydrographic Bureau (IHB). The present name was adopted in 1970 as part of a new international Convention on the IHO adopted by the then member nations. The former name International Hydrographic Bureau was retained to describe the IHO secretariat until 8 November 2016, when a revision to the Convention on the IHO entered into force. Thereafter the IHB became known as the \"IHO Secretariat\", comprising an elected Secretary-General and two supporting Directors, together with a small staff of 17, at the Organization's headquarters in Monaco. \n\nDuring the 19th century, many maritime nations established hydrographic offices to provide means for improving the navigation of naval and merchant vessels by providing nautical publications, nautical charts, and other navigational services. There were substantial differences in hydrographic procedures charts, and publications. In 1889, an International Maritime Conference was held at Washington, D.C., and it was proposed to establish a \"permanent international commission.\" Similar proposals were made at the sessions of the International Congress of Navigation held at Saint Petersburg in 1908 and the International Maritime Conference held at Saint Petersburg in 1912.\n\nIn 1919 the hydrographers of Great Britain and France cooperated in taking the necessary steps to convene an international conference of hydrographers. London was selected as the most suitable place for this conference, and on 24 July 1919, the First International Conference opened, attended by the hydrographers of 24 nations. The object of the conference was \"To consider the advisability of all maritime nations adopting similar methods in preparation, construction, and production of their charts and all hydrographic publications; of rendering the results in the most convenient form to enable them to be readily used; of instituting a prompt system of mutual exchange of hydrographic information between all countries; and of providing an opportunity to consultations and discussions to be carried out on hydrographic subjects generally by the hydrographic experts of the world.\" This is still the major purpose of the IHO.\n\nAs a result of the Conference, a permanent organization was formed and statutes for its operations were prepared. The IHB, now the IHO, began its activities in 1921 with 18 nations as members. The Principality of Monaco was selected as the seat of the organization as a result of the offer of Albert I, Prince of Monaco to provide suitable accommodation for the Bureau in the principality. This organization firstly was composed by 89 members, but two of them were suspended because they couldn't pay their fees. Indeed, thirteen Member States had failed to pay their contributions to the organization for 2017 during the calendar year.\n\nThe IHO develops hydrographic and nautical charting standards. These standards are subsequently adopted and used by its 89 (as of June 2018) member countries and others in their surveys, nautical charts, and publications. The almost universal use of the IHO standards means that the products and services provided by the world's national hydrographic and oceanographic offices are consistent and recognisable by all seafarers and for other users. Much has been done in the field of standardisation since the Bureau (now the IHO) was founded.\n\nThe IHO has encouraged the formation of Regional Hydrographic Commissions (RHCs). Each RHC coordinates the national surveying and charting activities of countries within each region and acts as a forum to address other matters of common hydrographic interest. The 15 RHCs plus the IHO Hydrographic Commission on Antarctica (HCA) effectively cover the world.\n\nThe IHO, in partnership with the Intergovernmental Oceanographic Commission (IOC), directs the General Bathymetric Chart of the Oceans programme.\n\nMain achievements of this organization: \n\nEstablishment of the Chart Specifications Committee and International Charts. Great improvements have taken place in the following topics:\n\n1) The exploration of the seabed and movements of the sea.\n\n2) Standardization of maritime measurements, hydrographic terminology, marine cartographic products and geographical information systems for navigation. Great progress has been made concerning standardization of electronic charts\n\n3) High efficiency of the rapid dissemination of information on safety at sea\n\n4) Training of hydrographers and nautical cartographers.\n\nMost IHO publications, including the standards, guidelines and associated documents such as the \"International Hydrographic Review\", \"International Hydrographic Bulletin\", the \"Hydrographic Dictionary\" and the \"Year Book\" are available to the general public free of charge from the IHO website.\n\nThe IHO publishes the international standards related to charting and hydrography, including S-57, \"IHO Transfer Standard for Digital Hydrographic Data\", the encoding standard that is used primarily for electronic navigational charts. In 2010 the IHO introduced a new, contemporary hydrographic geospatial standard for modelling marine data and information, known as S-100. S-100 and any dependent product specifications are underpinned by an on-line registry accessible via the IHO website. S-100 is aligned with the ISO 19100 series of geographic standards, thereby making it fully compatible with contemporary geospatial data standards. Because S-100 is based on ISO 19100, it can be used by other data providers for their maritime-related (non-hydrographic) data and information. Various data and information providers from both the government and private sector are now using S-100 as part of the implementation of the e-Navigation concept that has been endorsed by the UN International Maritime Organization.\n\nThe IHO maintains a programme of the meetings of its Council, committees and working groups around the world. The meetings and the meetings of other related International Organisations are promulgated in the calendar on the IHO website.\n\nEstablishment of the Chart Specifications Committee and International Charts. Great improvements have taken place in the following topics:\n\n\nThe following countries are members of the IHO:\n\n"}
{"id": "33244271", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33244271", "title": "Invented tradition", "text": "Invented tradition\n\nThe invention of tradition is a concept made prominent in the eponymous 1983 book edited by British Marxist intellectual E. J. Hobsbawm and T. O. Ranger. In their Introduction the editors argue that many \"traditions\" which \"appear or claim to be old are often quite recent in origin and sometimes invented.\" They distinguish the \"invention\" of traditions in this sense from \"starting\" or \"initiating\" a tradition which does not then claim to be old. The phenomenon is particularly clear in the modern development of the nation and of nationalism, creating a national identity promoting national unity, and legitimising certain institutions or cultural practices.\n\nThe concept and the term have been widely applied to cultural phenomena such as the Bible and Zionism, the martial arts of Japan, the \"highland myth\" in Scotland, and the traditions of major religions, to mention only a few. The concept was influential on the use of related concepts, such as Benedict Anderson's imagined communities and the pizza effect.\n\nOne implication of the term is that the sharp distinction between \"tradition\" and \"modernity\" is often itself invented. The concept is \"highly relevant to that comparatively recent historical innovation, the 'nation,' with its associated phenomena: nationalism, the nation-state, national symbols, histories, and the rest.\" Hobsbawm and Ranger remark on the \"curious but understandable paradox: modern nations and all their impedimenta generally claim to be the opposite of novel, namely rooted in remotest antiquity, and the opposite of constructed, namely human communities so 'natural' as to require no definition other than self-assertion.\" Another implication is that the concept of \"authenticity\" is also to be questioned.\n\nOne reviewer noted that the \"'invention of tradition' is a splendidly subversive phrase,\" but it \"hides serious ambiguities.\" Hobsbawm \"contrasts invented traditions with what he calls 'the strength and adaptability of genuine traditions.' But where does his 'adaptability', or his colleague Ranger's 'flexibility' end, and invention begin? Given that all traditions change, is it possible or useful to attempt to discriminate the 'genuine' antiques from the fakes?\" Another also praised the high quality of the articles but had qualifications. \"Such distinctions\" (between invented and authentic traditions) \"resolve themselves ultimately into one between the genuine and the spurious, a distinction that may be untenable because all traditions (like all symbolic phenomena) are humanly created (\"spurious\") rather than naturally given (\"genuine\").\"\n\n"}
{"id": "1737838", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1737838", "title": "Invertase", "text": "Invertase\n\nInvertase is an enzyme that catalyzes the hydrolysis (breakdown) of sucrose (table sugar) into fructose and glucose. Alternative names for invertase include , saccharase, glucosucrase, beta-h-fructosidase, beta-fructosidase, invertin, sucrase, maxinvert L 1000, fructosylinvertase, alkaline invertase, acid invertase, and the systematic name: beta-fructofuranosidase. The resulting mixture of fructose and glucose is called inverted sugar syrup. Related to invertases are sucrases. Invertases and sucrases hydrolyze sucrose to give the same mixture of glucose and fructose. Invertases cleave the O-C(fructose) bond, whereas the sucrases cleave the O-C(glucose) bond.\n\nFor industrial use, invertase is usually derived from yeast. It is also synthesized by bees, which use it to make honey from nectar. Optimal temperature at which the rate of reaction is at its greatest is 60 °C and an optimum pH of 4.5. Typically, sugar is inverted with sulfuric acid.\n\nInvertase is expensive, so it may be preferable to make fructose from glucose using glucose isomerase, instead.\n\nChocolate-covered cherries, other cordials, and fondant candies include invertase, which liquefies the sugar. Once the candy is manufactured, it needs at least a few days to a few weeks in storage so the invertase has time to break down the sucrose.\n\nUrea acts as a non-competitive inhibitor of invertase, presumably by breaking the intramolecular hydrogen bonds contributing to the tertiarty structure of the enzyme.\n\n"}
{"id": "14808929", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14808929", "title": "KAMI (Indonesia)", "text": "KAMI (Indonesia)\n\nKAMI, derived from the Indonesia \"Kesatuan Aksi Mahasiswa Indonesia\" (\"Indonesian Students Action Forum\") was an Indonesian anti-communist group formed on 27 October 1965. \n\nIt consisted of Islamic, Catholic, and former Indonesian Socialist Party (PSI) members. KAMI and other anti-communist student groups were backed by the Indonesian National Armed Forces and organised anti-Sukarno protests which helped strengthen general Suharto's position following the abortive coup attempt that led to the downfall of Indonesian founding president Sukarno. Following the killing of two student demonstrators outside the Presidential Palace in February 1966, Sukarno officially banned KAMI. This was, however, ignored by the students and their supporters and backers within the military forces and the police. \n\nSimilar groups formed at this time of retaliation against Communists (who had been blamed for the coup attempt) included a high school students' front, KAPPI (\"Kesatuan Aksi Pelajar Pemuda Indonesia\", \"Indonesian Youth and Students' Action Front\"), and a university graduates' front, KASI (\"Kesatuan Aksi Sarjana Indonesia\", \"Indonesia Universities' Alumni Action Front\"). These two groups were formed in early 1966 and had a core made up of members of the Muslim group Masyumi and the then-banned Indonesian Socialist Party. KAMI was the organization that presented the Three Demands of the People (\"Tritura\") on an anti-Sukarno rally in front of the People's Consultative Assembly at the Merdeka Building in Bandung on January 10, 1966.\n\n"}
{"id": "8588442", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8588442", "title": "Karabakh Committee", "text": "Karabakh Committee\n\nKarabakh Committee () was a group of Armenian intellectuals recognized by many Armenians as the \"de facto\" leaders in the late 1980s. The Committee was formed in 1988, with the stated objective of reunification of Nagorno-Karabakh with Armenia. The committee was arrested by Soviet authorities on 11 December 1988 on charges of obstructing humanitarian aid from Azerbaijan after the December 7 1988 Armenian earthquake, but were released on 31 May 1989, subsequently forming the Pan-Armenian National Movement. In 1990 \"The New York Times\" described the committee as \"the most influential nationalist group in Armenia.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25627658", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25627658", "title": "Kent v. Dulles", "text": "Kent v. Dulles\n\nKent v. Dulles, 357 U.S. 116 (1958), was a landmark United States Supreme Court case on the right to travel and passport restrictions as they relate to First Amendment free speech rights. It was the first case in which the U.S. Supreme Court made a distinction between the constitutionally protected substantive due process \"freedom of movement\" and the \"right to travel abroad\" (subsequently characterized as \"right to international travel\".\n\nRockwell Kent wanted to travel to England to attend a meeting of the World Council of Peace in Helsinki, Finland. He was denied a passport because he was allegedly a Communist and was alleged to have \"a consistent and prolonged adherence to the Communist Party line.\" Kent, represented by Leonard Boudin of the Emergency Civil Liberties Union, sued in U.S. District Court for declaratory relief. The District Court granted summary judgment against him.\n\nOn appeal, Kent's case was heard with that of Dr. Walter Briehl, a psychiatrist. When Briehl applied for a passport, the Director of the Passport Office asked him to supply an affidavit with respect to his membership in the Communist Party. Briehl, like Kent, refused. His application for a passport was tentatively disapproved. Briehl filed his complaint in the District Court, which held that his case was indistinguishable from Kent's and dismissed it.\n\nThe U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit heard the two cases en banc and affirmed the District Court by a divided vote. 101 U.S.App.D.C. 278, 239, 248 F.2d 600, 561.\n\nThe cases were heard on writ of certiorari. 355 U.S. 881. The Court reversed the Court of Appeals. \"Kent v. Dulles\" was the first case in which the U.S. Supreme Court ruled that the right to travel is a part of the \"liberty\" of which the citizen cannot be deprived without due process of law under the Fifth Amendment. It did not decide the extent to which this liberty can be curtailed. The Court was first concerned with the extent, if any, to which Congress had authorized its curtailment by the U.S. Secretary of State. The Court found that the Secretary of State exceeded his authority by refusing to issue passports to Communists.\n\nIt did not rule on the constitutionality of the law because the only law which Congress had passed expressly curtailing the movement of Communists across U.S. borders had yet to take effect. Six years later, the Court in \"Aptheker v. Secretary of State\", found that the law violated First Amendment principles and left unsettled the extent to which this liberty to travel can be curtailed.\n\nIn a majority opinion written by Justice William O. Douglas, the Court reviewed the history of the issuance and regulation of US passports, noting that the passport is \"a document which, from its nature and object, is addressed to foreign powers; purporting only to be a request that the bearer of it may pass safely and freely, and is to be considered rather in the character of a political document by which the bearer is recognized in foreign countries as an American citizen\" citing \"Urtetiqui v. D'Arbel\", and that except in wartime \"for most of our history, a passport was not a condition to entry or exit\" concluding that the issuance of passports is \"a discretionary act\" on the part of the Secretary of State.\n\nThe Court then surveyed Angevin law under the Magna Carta, citing Article 42 in support of the right to travel as a \"liberty\" right. It referenced Chafee in \"Three Human Rights in the Constitution of 1787\". At that point the Court began to use the phrase \"freedom of movement\" as in \"Freedom of movement is basic in our scheme of values,\" citing \"Crandall v. Nevada\" \"Williams v. Fears\", \"Edwards v. California\", and Vestal, \"Freedom of Movement\", 41 Iowa L.Rev. 6, 13-14, although all the cases it cited involved interstate travel. The Court concluded that although \"Freedom to travel is, indeed, an important aspect of the citizen's liberty\" it need not decide the extent to which it can be curtailed because it was first concerned with the extent, if any, to which Congress had authorized its curtailment.\n\nIt reviewed prior administrative practice, noting that the power of the Secretary of State over the issuance of passports is expressed in broad terms, but long exercised quite narrowly. Historically, the cases of refusal of passports generally fell into two categories. First was the question pertinent to the citizenship of the applicant and his allegiance to the United States. Second was the question whether the applicant was participating in illegal conduct, trying to escape the toils of the law, promoting passport frauds, or otherwise engaging in conduct which would violate the laws of the United States. It considered wartime measures, citing \"Korematsu v. United States\", for the proposition that the government could exclude citizens from their homes and restrict their freedom of movement only on a showing of \"the gravest imminent danger to the public safety.\" It found that although there were scattered rulings of the State Department concerning Communists, they were not consistently of one pattern.\n\nThe Court concluded that although the issuance of a passport carries some implication of intention to extend the bearer diplomatic protection, its crucial function is control over exit and that the right of exit is a personal right included within the word \"liberty\" as used in the Fifth Amendment. It found that when that power is delegated, the standards must be adequate to pass scrutiny by the accepted tests, citing \"Panama Refining Co. v. Ryan\", \"Cantwell v. Connecticut\", and \"Niemotko v. Maryland\", and that where activities or enjoyment natural and often necessary to the wellbeing of an American citizen, such as travel, are involved, the Court will construe narrowly all delegated powers that curtail or dilute them. Consequently, it found that § 1185 and § 211a did not delegate to the Secretary the kind of authority exercised in this case.\n\nThe minority opinion was written by Justice Tom Clark with Justices Burton, Harlan and Whitaker concurring. The minority argued that historically Congress meant the Secretary to deny passports to those whose travel abroad would be contrary to American national security both in wartime and during peace, pointing out that passport restrictions on Communists were first implemented shortly after the 1917 Russian Revolution and continued periodically until 1952.\n\nIt felt an even more serious error of the majority was its determination that the Secretary's wartime use of his discretion was wholly irrelevant in determining what discretionary practices were approved by Congress in enactment of § 215. It was not a case of judging what may be done in peace by what has been done in war. Were it a time of peace, there might very well have been no problem for the Court to decide, since petitioners then would not need a passport to leave the country. The wartime practice may be the only relevant one, for the discretion with which the Court was concerned was discretionary control over international travel. Only in times of war and national emergency has a passport been required to leave or enter the country, and hence only in such times has passport power necessarily meant power to control travel.\n\nIt faulted the majority's assertion that the passport denials here were beyond the pale of congressional authorization because they do not involve grounds either of allegiance or criminal activity. It argued that neither of the propositions set out by the majority — (1) that the Secretary's denial of passports in peacetime extended to only two categories of cases, those involving allegiance and those involving criminal activity, and (2) that the Secretary's wartime exercise of his discretion, while admittedly more restrictive, had no relevance to the practice which Congress could have been said to have approved in 1952 — had any validity: the first was contrary to fact, and the second to common sense.\n\nOn this multiple basis, then, Judge Clark was constrained to disagree with the majority as to the authority of the Secretary to deny petitioners' applications for passports and would affirm on the issue of the Secretary's authority to require the affidavits involved in this case. He did not reach any constitutional questions, delegating to the majority's resolution of the authority question, the inability to rule on the constitutional issues raised by petitioners relating to claimed unlawful delegation of legislative power, violation of free speech and association under the First Amendment, and violation of international travel under the Fifth Amendment.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28871115", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28871115", "title": "Libertarianism Without Inequality", "text": "Libertarianism Without Inequality\n\nLibertarianism Without Inequality is a book written in 2003 by Michael Otsuka, and published by Oxford University Press.\n\nThe book is written in three parts with part one being dedicated to self-ownership and \"world ownership.\" Part two dwells on the rights of self-defense and the right to punish those who transgress against the natural rights of others. Part three deals with the political aspects and other types of libertarianism.\n\nIan Carter has said, \"In this important contribution to rights theory, the deontology of punishment, and the problem of political obligation, Michael Otsuka argues against the belief, prevalent on both the left and the right of the political spectrum, that the fundamental principles of libertarianism conflict with the ideal of economic equality. This allows him to defend “libertarianism without inequality” – a radical and provocative normative construction that is both more egalitarian and more libertarian than mainstream (left-of-centre) liberal egalitarianism.\"\n\nRothbardian intellectual historian David Gordon has said, \"Michael Otsuka endeavors to combine two fundamental principles of political philosophy, usually considered polar opposites. In my view, his ingenious attempt does not succeed; but his failure has much to teach us.\" Timothy Hinton has said the book is a notable contribution to political philosophy.\n\n"}
{"id": "35946571", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35946571", "title": "List of Umalatova awards", "text": "List of Umalatova awards\n\nThe post-Soviet, Russia socialist political Party of Peace and Unity (), issued a number of Orders, decorations and medals under the leadership of Sazhi Umalatova, some were original or reminted Soviet awards, others were new but retained the communist look dating to before the dissolution of the USSR. The awards listed below were issued between 1997 and 2007, they are commonly called \"Umalatova awards\" () after the party leader.\n\n"}
{"id": "10077950", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10077950", "title": "Marc Tucker", "text": "Marc Tucker\n\nMarc S. Tucker (born 1939) is the president and CEO of the National Center on Education and the Economy. He is active in education reform and benchmarking the policies and practices of the countries with the best education systems in the world.\n\nTucker published a report on international education benchmarking entitled \"Standing on the Shoulders of Giants: An American Agenda for Education Reform\". His book, \"Surpassing Shanghai\", was published by Harvard Education Press in November 2011. According to the publisher, Surpassing Shanghai aims to answer a simple question: How would one redesign the American education system if the aim was to take advantage of everything that has been learned by countries with the world’s best education systems? Jay Greene has argued, however, that the \"best practice\" methodology is flawed and is likely to lead to poor policies.\n\nTucker was influential in creating the National Board for Professional Teaching Standards, the Commission on the Skills of the American Workforce, the New Commission on the Skills of the American Workforce, the New Standards Consortium, the National Skills Standards Board, America’s Choice (a school reform program), the National Institute for School Leadership(a school leadership training organization) and Board Examination Systems Program. Tucker has testified to the U.S. Congress and state legislatures.\n\nHe previously served as executive director at Carnegie Forum on Education and the Economy; president at the National Board for Professional Teaching Standards; associate director at the National Institute of Education, U.S. Department of Education; and a professor of education at the University of Rochester.\n\nTucker was born in Newton, Massachusetts. He earned a bachelor's degree in philosophy and American literature from Brown University in 1961. He subsequently studied theater engineering and technical theater production at the Yale University School of Drama, and then went on to a master of special studies with a concentration in telecommunications policy at George Washington University, graduating in 1982.\n\n"}
{"id": "1717201", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1717201", "title": "Maude Barlow", "text": "Maude Barlow\n\nMaude Victoria Barlow (born May 24, 1947) is a Canadian author and activist. She is the National Chairperson of the Council of Canadians, a citizens’ advocacy organization with members and chapters across Canada. She is also the co-founder of the Blue Planet Project, which works internationally for the human right to water. Maude chairs the board of Washington-based Food & Water Watch, is a founding member of the San Francisco–based International Forum on Globalization, and a Councillor with the Hamburg-based World Future Council. In 2008/2009, she served as Senior Advisor on Water to the 63rd President of the United Nations General Assembly and was a leader in the campaign to have water recognized as a human right by the UN. She has authored and co-authored 18 books.\n\nMaude Barlow is the recipient of 12 honorary doctorates as well as many awards, including the 2005 Right Livelihood Award, the Citation of Lifetime Achievement which she received at the 2008 Canadian Environment Awards, the 2009 Earth Day Canada Outstanding Environmental Achievement Award, the 2009 Planet in Focus Eco Hero Award, and the 2011 EarthCare Award, the highest international honour of the Sierra Club (U.S.).\n\n\n\n\nBarlow is in the feature documentary \"\" by Sam Bozzo.\n\nBarlow is featured in two other recent documentaries about water rights issues: Irena Salina's documentary \"\", and Liz Marshall's \"Water on the Table\". Barlow also contributes to a blog associated with \"Water on the Table\".\n\nBarlow is the subject of a National Film Board of Canada documentary \"Democracy à la Maude\" as well as a CBC TV \"Life and Times\" biography.\n\nThe Bollywood film Paani, being directed by Shekhar Kapur, is based on Blue Covenant: The Global Water Crisis and the Coming Battle for the Right.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3238680", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3238680", "title": "National Alliance for Democracy and Development", "text": "National Alliance for Democracy and Development\n\nThe National Alliance for Democracy and Development (NADD) is a three-party coalition (previously five parties) of Gambian opposition political parties. \n\nIt was officially launched January 2005 with the signing of a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) between the National Democratic Action Movement (NDAM), National Reconciliation Party (NRP), People's Democratic Organisation for Independence and Socialism (PDOIS), People's Progressive Party (PPP), and the United Democratic Party (UDP).\n\nAccording to the memorandum, \"The goal of the alliance is to put an end to self-perpetuating rule, ensure the empowerment of the people so that they can participate in sustainable development.\" \n\nIn an interview with the BBC, UDP leader Ousainou Darboe was quoted as saying that the coalition's objective was not simply to remove President Yahya Jammeh from office, but to have concrete policies including far-reaching changes in the country's system of governance. \n\nThe UDP left the coalition during 2006.\n\nThe grouping contested the October 2006 presidential and January 2007 national assembly elections as a single entity to better challenge President Jammeh and the ruling Alliance for Patriotic Reorientation and Construction (APRC) party. It won 1 out of 53 seats.\n\n"}
{"id": "385807", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=385807", "title": "One World (book)", "text": "One World (book)\n\nOne World is a manifesto and a travelogue written by Wendell Willkie, a liberal Republican, about his seven-week, 31,000-mile tour, and originally published in April 1943. It advocates for an end to colonialism, World Federalism, and equality for non-whites in the United States. \n\n\"One World\" inspired the One World movement and the World Federalist Movement — which included among its supporters Albert Einstein, Mahatma Gandhi, Jawaharlal Nehru —and advocated strong and democratic super-national institutions. That wave of thinking gave birth to the postwar international order, including the United Nations System, but was also very critical of the postwar order and the UN, claiming it is insufficient to avoid another world war. \n\nWillkie was accompanied on his tour by, among others, the publisher and editor Gardner Cowles, Jr., who ultimately assisted Willkie in the writing of \"One World\" (which was edited by Irita Van Doren).\n\nIt is a document of his world travels and meetings with many of the Allies' heads of state as well as ordinary citizens and soldiers in locales such as El Alamein, Russia, and Iran. The main idea of the book is that the world became one small inter-connected unit and Isolationism is no longer possible: \n\n\"There are no distant points in the world any longer.\" What concerns \"myriad millions of human beings\" abroad, concerns the Americans. \"Our thinking in the future must be world-wide.\" \n\nTo win the peace, \"we must now plan for peace on a world basis\" and \"play an active, constructive part in freeing and keeping\" this peace. By \"peace on world basis\" he meant: \n\nWillkie emphasized that across the world the \"reservoir of goodwill\" towards the United States is much larger than towards other contemporary powers: \n\nWillkie anticipated military and economic integration of West Europe after the war: \"The re-creation of the small countries of Europe as political units, \"yes\"; their re-creation as economic and military units, \"no\", if we really hope to bring stabilization to Western Europe…\"\n\nHe sought to extend the Atlantic Charter beyond West Europe to all world. \"That was one of the reasons why I was so greatly distressed when Mr. Churchill subsequently made his world-disturbing remark, 'We mean to hold our own. I did not become His Majesty's first minister in order to preside over the liquidation of the British Empire.'\"\n\nWillkie opposed Colonialism in general, including the American: \"The British are by no means the only colonial rulers.\" The French, Dutch, Portuguese and Belgians are in the list. \"And we ourselves have not yet promised complete freedom to all the peoples in the West Indies for whom we have assumed responsibility.\"\n\nHe warned on the Soviet rule over East Europe: \"The failure of Mr. Stalin to announce to a worried world Russia's specific aspirations with reference to Eastern Europe weighs the scales once more against the proclaimed purposes of leaders.\"\n\nWillkie was also critical of the disparity between the Atlantic Charter and the domestic American racial and anti-Semitic policies—a phenomenon he labeled \"domestic imperialism.\"\n\nEspecially emphasized is the position of China in the world after World War II; involved in a civil war between Nationalists and Communists, Willkie prophesies that whichever power achieves victory will make China a force to be reckoned with. It is the duty of the United Nations (the Allies) to make sure that the power is friendly to American and other Allied interests but also that it is powerful enough to help the Chinese, the world's most populated nation.\n\n\"One World\" \"became the greatest nonfiction bestseller to date in US publishing history.\" It spent four months atop the \"New York Times\" bestseller list beginning in May 1943 and selling over 1.5 million copies during those four months. Harold Urey wrote of it, \"Wendell Willkie left a monument more enduring than granite in the words ‘One World’…” The title \"One World\" could influence the title of the famous trilogy \"One World or None\" (1946), implying that this is the alternative in the atomic age.\n"}
{"id": "52846094", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52846094", "title": "Philadelphia 3.0", "text": "Philadelphia 3.0\n\nPhiladelphia 3.0 is a 501(c)4 nonprofit political advocacy organization based in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. Philadelphia 3.0 officially launched March 26, 2015. Alison Perelman is the Executive Director.\n\nPhiladelphia 3.0's stated mission is to \"support independent-minded candidates running for City Council and lead efforts to reform and modernize City Hall\".\n\nAnonymous benefactors fund Philadelphia 3.0. It was conceived by Parkway Corporation executives Joseph and Robert Zuritsky as a means to elect business friendly candidates to Philadelphia City Council.\n\nDuring the 2015 election cycle, Philadelphia 3.0 supported six candidates for City Council. Three candidates endorsed by Philadelphia 3.0 were elected to office.\n\nIn May 2016, twelve local organizations, including Philadelphia 3.0 and the Committee of Seventy joined together to form the “Better Philadelphia Elections Coalition” seeking to create a new Department of Elections administered by a professionally-accredited Election Director appointed by the Mayor, with oversight provided by an appointed, non-salaried, and bipartisan Philadelphia Board of Elections.\n"}
{"id": "40145043", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40145043", "title": "Polish question", "text": "Polish question\n\nThe Polish question ( or ) is the issue, in international politics, of the existence of Poland as an independent state. Raised soon after the partitions of Poland in the late 18th century, it became a question current in European and American diplomacy throughout the 19th and parts of the 20th centuries. Historian Norman Davies notes that the Polish question is the primary lens through which most histories of Europe discuss the history of Poland, and was one of the most common topics of European politics for close to two centuries. The Polish question was a major topic at all major European peace conferences: at the Congress of Vienna in 1815, at the Versailles Conference in 1919, and at the Yalta Conference and the Potsdam Conference in 1945. As Piotr Wandycz notes, \"What to the Poles was the Polish cause, to the outside world was the Polish question.\"\n\nAfter late-18th-century partitions of Poland, the Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth ceased to exist, divided between the Austrian Empire, the Prussian Kingdom and the Russian Empire. The erasure of Poland from the map of Europe became a key to maintaining the European balance of power over the next century. The term \"Polish question\" came into use shortly afterwards, as some Great Powers took interest in upsetting this \"status quo\", hoping to benefit from the recreation of the Polish state, starting with France under Napoleon Bonaparte, who considered the Poles useful recruits in his wars with Poland's occupying powers. The term \"Polish question\" was heard again after the failed November Uprising of 1831, during the \"Spring of Nations\" in 1848–49, and again after the unsuccessful January Uprising of 1863, in which Poles and Lithuanians rebelled against the Russian Empire, trying to restore their country's independence. In the era of rising nationalism, the question of whether an independent Poland should be restored, and also what it meant to be a Pole, gained increasing notoriety. In the decades that followed, the term became less used, as no new major uprisings occurred in Poland to draw the world's attention. The issue was further assuaged by the fact that the three partitioning powers were common allies for over a century (cf. League of the Three Emperors), and their diplomacy successfully kept the issue suppressed so that no serious solution appeared in sight. Out of the three partitioning powers, for Prussia the Polish question was one of fundamental importance, as Prussia's existence was connected to the Polish state being vanquished.\n\nThe Polish question resurfaced with force during World War I, when the partitioning powers fought one another, leading them to attempts to court their respective Polish citizens. In his memorandum of 20 January 1914, Russian Foreign Minister Sazonov proposed the restoration of an autonomous Kingdom of Poland with the Polish language used in schools and local administration, to which eastern Silesia, Western Galicia and eastern Poznan would be attached after the war, and on 16 August 1914 he persuaded the Tsar that Russia should seek reintegration of a unified Polish state as one of its war aims.\n\nIn 1916, Germany, with the Act of 5th November, publicly promised to create the Regency Kingdom of Poland, while secretly planning to annex up to 35,000 square kilometres of its territory and ethnically cleanse up to 3 million Poles and Jews to make room for German settlers after the war. This caused the French parliament to comment that the manifesto \"stamped the Polish question with an international character\". Russia protested the move, as it saw its own rump Polish state, the Congress Kingdom (or Vistula Land) as the only \"Poland\" that mattered. Soon, however, the Russians followed the German move suit, and promised the Poles increased autonomy. This offer was mentioned in the United States in Woodrow Wilson's \"Peace Without Victory\" speech of 1917. The Polish question was temporarily solved with the restoration of Polish independence after World War I.\n\nThe term became once again relevant during World War II, as after the German invasion of Poland the future of occupied Poland became once again an issue of debate between the Great Powers of the time, namely the United Kingdom, the United States and the Soviet Union.\n\nThe term was also used later in the 20th century, in the 1980s during the Solidarność period, when opposition activists struggled to free the People's Republic of Poland from the communist Soviet Bloc.\n\n"}
{"id": "3354201", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3354201", "title": "Prague Conference", "text": "Prague Conference\n\nThe Prague Conference, officially the 6th All-Russian Conference of the Russian Social Democratic Labour Party, was held in Prague, Austria-Hungary on 5–17 January 1912. Eighteen Bolsheviks attended, although Joseph Stalin and Yakov Sverdlov, who were in exile at the time, were not able to. Georgi Plekhanov claimed he was too ill to attend. At the conference, Vladimir Lenin and his supporters broke away from the rest of the Russian Social Democratic Labour Party and formed their own, Russian Social Democratic Labour Party (bolsheviks). The conference was meant to be secret; Lenin had instructed: \"No-one, no organisation must know about this\". However, every detail was known to the Okhrana, the secret police of the Russian Empire.\n\nSeven people were elected to the Central Committee: Lenin, Zinoviev, Malinovsky (later revealed to be a spy for the Okhrana), Ordzhonikidze, Spandaryan (Stalin's best friend), Sverdlov (Soviet president, 1917–19) and Goloshchekin. The latter four set up a Russian Bureau to direct the party along with Kalinin and Stalin, who led the Bureau. This ensured the domination of Russia-based Bolsheviks as opposed to the émigrés who were considered \"null and void\" by Ordzhonikidze. Spandaryan called for the émigré group to be dissolved.\n\nAfter the conference, upon Lenin and Zinoviev's recommendation, Stalin was co-opted to the Bolshevik Central Committee. Elena Stasova was made Secretary to the Russian Bureau. Stepan Shahumyan and Mikhail Kalinin (Soviet president 1919–46) became candidate Central Committee members. Kalinin was suspected of being an Okhrana agent so was not a full member. Both were Stalin's comrades in the Caucasus.\n\nLenin wrote to Maxim Gorky: \"At last we have succeeded, in spite of the Liquidator scum, in restoring the Party and its Central Committee. I hope you will rejoice with us over the fact.\" Stalin said: \"This conference was of the utmost importance in the history of our Party, for it drew a boundary line between the Bolsheviks and the Mensheviks and amalgamated the Bolshevik organizations all over the country into a united Bolshevik Party.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "1579715", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1579715", "title": "Robertson Panel", "text": "Robertson Panel\n\nThe Robertson Panel was a scientific committee which met in January 1953 headed by Howard P. Robertson. The Panel arose from a recommendation to the Intelligence Advisory Committee (IAC) in December 1952 from a Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) review of the U.S. Air Force investigation into unidentified flying objects, Project Blue Book. The CIA review itself was in response to widespread reports of unidentified flying objects, especially in the Washington, D.C. area during the summer of 1952. \n\nThe panel was briefed on U.S. military activities and intelligence; hence the report was originally classified Secret. Later declassified, the Robertson Panel's report concluded that UFOs were not a direct threat to national security, but could pose an indirect threat by overwhelming standard military communications due to public interest in the subject. Most UFO reports, they concluded, could be explained as misidentification of mundane aerial objects, and the remaining minority could, in all likelihood, be similarly explained with further study. \n\nThe Robertson Panel recommended that a public education campaign should be undertaken in order to reduce public interest in the subject, minimising the risk of swamping Air Defence systems with reports at critical times, and that civilian UFO groups should be monitored. The Robertson Panel’s report was contained within a larger internal CIA report by F C Durant, a CIA officer who served as Secretary to the Panel, which summarises the activities of the panel and its conclusions. This wider document is commonly referred to as the Durant Report.\n\nIn 1952 there was a significant increase in the number of UFO reports received by the USAF Blue Book project, tasked with investigating such reports at the time. This wave included widely reported incidents over Washington DC in July, over the weekends of July 19-20 and 26-27. CIA historian Gerald Haines noted “A massive build-up of sightings over the United States in 1952, especially in July, alarmed the Truman administration. On 19 and 20 July, radar scopes at Washington National Airport and Andrews Air Force Base tracked mysterious blips. On 27 July, the blips reappeared. The Air Force scrambled interceptor aircraft to investigate, but they found nothing. The incidents, however, caused headlines across the country. The White House wanted to know what was happening…”. The reference to White House interest is consistent with a telephone call Captain (later Major) Edward Ruppelt, Blue Book Project Director at the time, received from Brigadier General Landry, Truman’s military aide, on the July 28, inquiring as to the causes of the Washington reports of the previous days.\n\nIn a 29 July 1952 memo to the Deputy Director of Intelligence, Acting Assistant Director for Scientific Intelligence Ralph Clark commented; “In the past several weeks a number of radar and visual sightings of unidentified aerial objects have been reported. Although this office has maintained a continuing review of such reported sightings during the past three years, a special study group has been formed to review this subject to date. D/CI will participate in the study with D/SI and a report should be ready about 15 August.” This is the earliest written record of the CIA study which led to the Robertson Panel. \n\nThe precise origins of the decision to establish the review are unclear. A claim that the study was initiated by a Presidential request to the National Security Council (NSC) appears to be incorrect. No NSC meetings were held on the relevant dates and the President was in Kansas on the 27 and 28 July, resting after attending the Democratic Party convention on the 26th. The Ralph L Clark memo of the 29th July contains a footnote reference to a meeting, “OSI:FCD:RLC mtw (28July52)” which appears to indicate a 28 July 1952 meeting between F C Durant and Clark on this subject. The decision to initiate the CIA study appears therefore to have been taken around July 28, although D/CI (Director of Central Intelligence) involvement in the study and Haines’ reference to White House interest suggests that the FCD:RLC meeting was not itself the formal decision point. The decision appears to have been an operational decision taken outside of formal structures such as NSC meetings, as was common for urgent matters.\n\nThe CIA analysts were broadly skeptical concerning the possibility that some UFO reports may represent extraterrestrial objects or objects of terrestrial (either American or Russian) manufacture, favouring the hypothesis that currently unidentified reports were misidentifications of conventional objects or natural phenomena. In an internal CIA paper dated 19 August 1952 the analyst notes:\n\n“In summarizing this discussion, I would restate that on three of the main theories in explanation of these phenomena, - a US development, a Russian development, and space ships - the evidence either of fact or of logic is so strongly against them that they warrant at present no more than speculative consideration. However, it is important that there are many who believe in them and will continue to do so in spite of any official pronouncement which may be made. This whole affair has demonstrated that there is a fair proportion of our population which is mentally conditioned to acceptance of the incredible. Thus we arrive at two danger points which, in a situation of international tension, seem to have National Security implications.”\n\nThe analyst went on to note the absence of coverage of the subject in the Soviet press, which it was felt could only represent a policy position and highlighted the “question of why and of whether or not these sightings could be used from a psychological warfare point of view either offensively or defensively. Air Force is aware of this and had investigated a number of the civilian groups that have sprung up to follow the subject. One - the Civilian Saucer Committee in California has substantial funds, strongly influences the editorial policy of a number of newspapers and has leaders whose connections may be questionable. Air Force is watching this organization because of its power to touch off mass hysteria and panic. Perhaps we, from an intelligence point of view, should watch for any indication of Russian efforts to capitalize upon this present American credulity.\n\nOf even greater moment is the second danger. Our air warning system will undoubtedly always depend upon a combination of radar scanning and visual observation. We give Russia the capability of delivering an air attack against us, yet at any given moment now, there may be a dozen official unidentified sightings plus many unofficial. At the moment of attack, how will we, on an instant basis, distinguish hardware from phantom?”\n\nThese twin concerns – potential for psychological warfare and overloading of air defence systems, were formalised in a memorandum to the Director of Central Intelligence, General Walter Bedell Smith on September 11, 1952. This memorandum noted that although the Air Force study was adequate on a case by case basis it was not addressing the more fundamental question of enabling rapid positive identification of reports; “…the study makes no attempt to solve the more fundamental aspect of the problem which is to determine definitely the nature of the various phenomena which are causing these sightings, or to discover means by which these causes and their visual and electronic effects may be immediately identified. Our consultant panel stated that these solutions would probably be found on the margins or just beyond the frontiers of our present phenomena”. The memorandum went on to make the recommendations:\na. The Director of Central Intelligence advise the National Security Council of the security implications inherent in the flying saucer problem with the request that, under his statutory coordinating authority, The Director of Central Intelligence be empowered to institute through the appropriate agencies, either within or without the government, the investigation and research necessary to solve the problem of instant positive identification of \"unidentified flying objects\".\n\nb. CIA, under its assigned responsibilities, and in cooperation with the psychological strategy board immediately investigate possible offensive or defensive utilization of the phenomena for psychological warfare purposes both for and against the United States, advising those agencies charged with U.S. internal security of any pertinent findings affecting their areas of responsibility.\n\nc. On the basis of these programs of research, CIA develop and recommend for adoption by the National Security Council a policy of public information which will minimize the risk of panic.\n\nOn October 13, 1952, however, a memorandum from the Assistant Director for Intelligence Co-ordination, James Reber to the Deputy Director Intelligence argued that fundamental research into the question of positive identification was the responsibility of the Defence Department and that whilst investigating Soviet knowledge of the phenomena was a “primary concern” for the CIA it “is far too early in view of the present state of our knowledge regarding Flying Saucers for psychological warfare planners to start planning how the United States might use U.S. Flying Saucers against the enemy”. Reber went on to recommend that when “…intelligence has submitted the National Estimate on Flying Saucers there will be the time and basis for a public policy to reduce or restrain mass hysteria.”\n\nAs early as August 15 CIA analysts, despite their overall skeptical conclusions had noted, “Sightings of UFO's reported at Los Alamos and Oak Ridge, at a time when the background radiation count had risen inexplicably. Here we run out of even \"blue yonder\" explanations that might be tenable, and, we still are left with numbers of incredible reports from credible observers.” On December 2, 1952 CIA Assistant Director Chadwell noted, “Recent reports reaching CIA indicated that further action was desirable and another briefing by the cognizant A-2 and ATIC personnel was held on 25 November. At this time, the reports of incidents convince us that there is something going on that must have immediate attention. The details of some of these incidents have been discussed by AD/SI with DDCI. Sightings of unexplained objects at great altitudes and traveling at high speeds in the vicinity of major U.S. defense installations are of such nature that they are not attributable to natural phenomena or known types of aerial vehicles”.\nChadwell’s 2 December memorandum contained the draft of recommendations for the NSC, which were:\n\n1. The Director of Central Intelligence shall formulate and carry out a program of intelligence and research activities as required to solve the problem of instant positive identification of unidentified flying objects.\n\n2. Upon call of the Director of Central Intelligence, Government departments and agencies shall provide assistance in this program of intelligence and research to the extent of their capacity provided, however, that the DCI shall avoid duplication of activities presently directed toward the solution of this problem.\n\n3. This effort shall be coordinated with the military services and the Research and Development Board of the Department of Defense, with the Psychological Board and other Governmental agencies as appropriate.\n\n4. The Director of Central Intelligence shall disseminate information concerning the program of intelligence and research activities in this field to the various departments and agencies which have authorized interest therein.””\n\nOn December 4, 1952 the Intelligence Advisory Committee agreed:\n\nThe Director of Central Intelligence will:\n\na. Enlist the services of selected scientists to review and appraise the available evidence in the light of pertinent scientific theories.\n\nb. Draft and circulate to the IAC a proposed NSCID, which would signify the IAC concerning the subject and authorize coordination with appropriate non-IAC departments and agencies.\n\nFrom the IAC minutes of December 4 and the earlier CIA documents it appears clear that the Robertson Panel was the outcome of recommendation (a) of the IAC decision but that this formed part of a wider intended programme of action aimed at enabling rapid positive identification of UFOs from an air defense perspective (i.e. identifying actual Soviet aircraft from misidentified natural phenomena or other conventional objects) and a desire to reduce reporting of UFOs, which were seen as clogging up air defense communication channels and created the risk of exploitation of this effect. The inter-relationships between these wider aspects of the CIA’s recommendations and the Battelle Memorial Institute's study, culminating in Blue Book Special Report 14, which identified a statistically significant difference between 'unknowns' and UFO reports that could subsequently be identified, or the study group referenced in a Canadian government document as operating as early as 1950 under the chairmanship of Dr Vannevar Bush, then head of the Joint Research and Development Board, to discover the ‘modus operandi’ of UFOs are unclear.\n\nThe Robertson Panel first met formally on January 14, 1953 under the direction of Howard P. Robertson. He was a physicist, a CIA consultant, and the director of the Defense Department Weapons Evaluation Group. He was instructed by OSI to assemble a group of prominent scientists to review the Air Force's UFO files. In preparation for this, Robertson first personally reviewed Air Force files and procedures. The Air Force had recently commissioned the Battelle Memorial Institute to scientifically study all of the UFO reports collected by Project Sign, Project Grudge and Project Blue Book. Robertson hoped to draw on their statistical results, but Battelle insisted that they needed much more time to conduct a proper study. Other panel members were respected scientists who had worked on other classified military projects or studies. All were then skeptical of UFO reports, though to varying degrees. Apart from Robertson, the panel included:\n\nMost of what is known about the actual proceedings of the meetings comes from notes kept by Durant which were later submitted as a memo to the NSC and commonly referred to as the Durant Report. In addition, various participants would later comment on what transpired from their perspective. Captain (later Major) Edward Ruppelt, then head of Project Blue Book, first revealed the existence of the secret panel in his 1956 book, but without revealing names of panel members.\n\nDr. Thornton Page later stated that the panel members met informally prior to the main panel meetings, with ‘no outsiders’. At this meeting \"H.P. Robertson told us in the first private (no outsiders) session that our job was to reduce public concern, and show that UFO reports could be explained by conventional reasoning.\" This would suggest that the remit of the panel and its subsequent conclusions should be seen as part of the process of implementing the recommendations of CIA’s own review of the UFO situation.\n\nThe Panel had four consecutive days of formal meetings. In total, they met for 12 hours and reviewed 23 cases out of 2,331 Air Force UFO cases on record (or about 1%), although Ruppelt wrote that the Panel studied their best cases.\nOn the first day, the panel viewed two motion pictures of UFOs: the Mariana UFO Incident footage and 1952 Utah UFO Film (the latter was taken by naval photographer Chief Warrant Officer Delbert C. Newhouse). Two Navy photograph and film analysts (Lieutenants R.S. Neasham and Harry Woo) then reported their conclusion that, based on more than 1,000 man hours of analysis, the two films depicted objects that were not any known aircraft, creature or weather phenomena. Ruppelt then began a summary of Air Force efforts regarding UFO studies.\n\nOn the second day, Ruppelt finished his presentation. Hynek then discussed the Battelle study, and the panel discussed with Air Force personnel the problems inherent in monitoring UFO sightings. The panel then watched a motion picture film of seagulls, which Thornton Page had requested as the panel felt that the Tremonton Utah film most probably showed birds.\n\nOn the third day, Air Force Major Dewey J. Fournet spoke to the panel. For over a year he had coordinated UFO affairs for the Pentagon. Fournet supported the extraterrestrial hypothesis as the best explanation for some puzzling UFO reports. For the remainder of the third day, the panel discussed their conclusions. Lloyd Berkner attended the panel meetings for the first time in the afternoon of the third day, Friday, January 16. Durant notes that “it was agreed that the Chairman should draft a report of the Panel to AD/SI that evening for review by the Panel the next morning. The meeting adjourned at 1715”.\n\nDurant records that the panel reconvened on the Saturday morning:\n\nAt 0945 the Chairman opened the seventh session and submitted a rough draft of the Panel Report to the members. This draft had been reviewed and approved earlier by Dr. Berkner. The next two and one-half hours were consumed in discussion and revision of the draft. At 1100 the AD/SI joined the meeting and reported that he had shown and discussed a copy of the initial rough draft to the Director of Intelligence, USAF, whose reaction was favorable…”. The final meeting of the panel took place that afternoon to finalise the report.\n\nDurant recorded:\n\n“The Panel concluded unanimously that there was no evidence of a direct threat to national security in the objects sighted”.\n\n“… they did not find was any evidence that related the objects sighted to space travelers. Mr. Fournet, in his presentation, showed how he had eliminated each of the known and probable causes of sightings leaving him \"extra-terrestrial\" as the only one remaining in many cases. Fournet's background as an aeronautical engineer and technical intelligence officer (Project Officer, BLUEBOOK for 15 months) could not be slighted. However, the Panel could not accept any of the cases cited by him because they were raw, unevaluated reports. Terrestrial explanations of the sightings were suggested in some cases and in others the time of sighting was so short as to cause suspicion of visual impressions”\n\nIn relation to the two films considered by the panel:\nThe Panel studied these films, the case history, ATIC's interpretation, and received a briefing by representatives of the USN Photo Interpretation Laboratory on their analysis of the film. This team had expended (at Air Force request) approximately 1000 man hours of professional and sub-professional time in the preparation of graph plots of individual frames of the film, showing apparent and relative motion of objects and variation in their light intensity. It was the opinion of the P.I.L. representatives that the objects sighted were not birds, balloons or aircraft, were \"not reflections because there was no blinking while passing through 60 degrees of arc\" and were, therefore, \"self-luminous.\" Plots of motion and variation in light intensity of the objects were displayed. While the Panel Members were impressed by the evident enthusiasm, industry and extent of effort of the P.I.L. team, they could not accept the conclusions reached. Some of the reasons for this were as follows:\na. A semi-spherical object can readily produce a reflection of sunlight without \"blinking\" through 60\" of arc travel.\n\nb. Although no data was available on the \"albedo\" of birds or polyethylene balloons in bright sunlight, the apparent motions, sizes and brightnesses of the objects were considered strongly to suggest birds, particularly after the Panel viewed a short film showing high reflectivity of seagulls in bright sunlight.\nc. P.I.L. description of the objects sighted as \"circular, bluish-white\" in color would be expected in cases of specular reflections of sunlight from convex surfaces where the brilliance of the reflection would obscure other portions of the object.\nd. Objects in the Great Falls case were believed to have probably been aircraft, and the bright lights such reflections.\ne. There was no valid reason for the attempt to relate the objects in the Tremonton sighting to those in the Great Falls sighting. This may have been due to misunderstanding in their directive. The objects in the Great Falls sighting are strongly suspected of being reflections of aircraft known to have been in the area.\n\nf. The intensity change in the Tremonton lights was too great for acceptance of the P.I.L. hypothesis that the apparent motion and changing intensity of the lights indicated extremely high speed in small orbital paths.\ng. Apparent lack of guidance of investigators by those familiar with U.F.O. reports and explanations.\nh. Analysis of light intensity of objects made from duplicate rather than original film. The original film was noted to have a much lighter background (affecting relative brightness of object) and the objects appeared much less bright.\ni. Method of obtaining data of light intensity appeared faulty because of unsuitability of equipment and questionable assumptions in making averages of readings.\nj. No data had been obtained on the sensitivity of Kodachrome film to light of various intensities using the same camera type at the same lens openings.\nk. Hand \"jitter\" frequencies (obtainable from early part of Tremonton film) were not removed from the plots of the \"single pass plots\" at the end of the film.\nThe Panel believed strongly that the data available on this sighting was sufficient for positive identification if further data is obtained by photographing polyethylene \"pillow\" balloons released near the site under similar weather conditions, checking bird flight and reflection characteristics with competent ornithologists and calculating apparent \"G\" forces acting upon objects from their apparent tracks. It was concluded that the results of such tests would probably lead to creditable explanations of value in an educational or training program.”\n\nWhilst concluding there was nothing of scientific value in UFO reports and that there was no evidence of a direct threat to national security, the panel noted:\n\n“The Panel Members were in agreement with O/SI opinion that, although evidence of any direct threat from these sightings was wholly lacking, related dangers might well exist resulting from:\na. Misidentification of actual enemy artifacts by defense personnel.\nb. Overloading of emergency reporting channels with \"false\" information (\"noise to signal ratio\" analogy—Berkner).\nc. Subjectivity of public to mass hysteria and greater vulnerability to possible enemy psychological warfare. “ \n\nIn addition to a range of suggestions regarding improved techniques and resources for Blue Book the Panel concluded that a public education campaign should be undertaken to, on the one hand, improve training for relevant personnel in identification of various aerial phenomena and:\n“(t)he \"debunking\" aim would result in reduction in public interest in \"flying saucers\" which today evokes a strong psychological reaction. This education could be accomplished by mass media such as television, motion pictures, and popular articles. Basis of such education would be actual case histories which had been puzzling at first but later explained. As in the case of conjuring tricks, there is much less stimulation if the \"secret\" is known. Such a program should tend to reduce the current gullibility of the public and consequently their susceptibility to clever hostile propaganda. The Panel noted that the general absence of Russian propaganda based on a subject with so many obvious possibilities for exploitation might indicate a possible Russian official policy….The Panel took cognizance of the existence of such groups as the \"Civilian Flying Saucer Investigators\" (Los Angeles) and the \"Aerial Phenomena Research Organization (Wisconsin). It was believed that such organizations should be watched because of their potentially great influence on mass thinking if widespread sightings should occur. The apparent irresponsibility and the possible use of such groups for subversive purposes should be kept in mind.”\n\nThe formal recommendations of the panel focused mainly on the educational or “debunking” aspects of their conclusions:\n\n“ 1. Pursuant to the request of the Assistant Director for Scientific Intelligence, the undersigned Panel of Scientific Consultants has met to evaluate any possible threat to national security posed by Unidentified Flying Objects (\"Flying Saucers\"), and to make recommendations thereon. The Panel has received the evidence as presented by cognizant intelligence agencies, primarily the Air Technical Intelligence Center, and has reviewed a selection of the best documented incidents.\n2. As a result of its considerations, the Panel _concludes_:\n\na. That the evidence presented on Unidentified Flying Objects shows no indication that these phenomena constitute a direct physical threat to national security.\n\nWe firmly believe that there is no residuum of cases which indicates Phenomena which are attributable to foreign artifacts capable of hostile acts, and that there is no evidence that the phenomena indicates a need for the revision of current scientific concepts.\n\n3.The Panel further _concludes_:\n\na. That the continued emphasis on the reporting of these phenomena does, in these parlous times, result in a threat to the orderly functioning of the protective organs of the body politic.\n\nWe cite as examples the clogging of channels of communication by irrelevant reports, the danger of being led by continued false alarms to ignore real indications of hostile action, and the cultivation of a morbid national psychology in which skilful hostile propaganda could induce hysterical behavior and harmful distrust of duty constituted authority.\n4. In order most effectively to strengthen the national facilities for the timely recognition and the appropriate handling of true indications of hostile action, and to minimize the concomitant dangers alluded to above, the Panel recommends:\n\na. That the national security agencies take immediate steps to strip the Unidentified Flying Objects of the special status they have been given and the aura of mystery they have unfortunately acquired;\n\nb. That the national security agencies institute policies on intelligence, training, and public education designed to prepare the material defenses and the morale of the country to recognize most promptly and to react most effectively to true indications of hostile intent or action.\n\nWe suggest that these aims may be achieved by an integrated program designed to reassure the public of the total lack of evidence of Inimical forces behind the phenomenon, to train personnel to recognize and reject false indications quickly and effectively, and to strengthen regular channels for the evaluation of and prompt reaction to true indications of hostile measures.”\n\nHistorian Gerald Haines notes that:\n\n“Following the Robertson panel findings, the Agency abandoned efforts to draft an NSCID on UFOs. The Scientific Advisory Panel on UFOs (the Robertson panel) submitted its report to the IAC, the Secretary of Defense, the Director of the Federal Civil Defense Administration, and the Chairman of the National Security Resources Board. CIA officials said no further consideration of the subject appeared warranted, although they continued to monitor sightings in the interest of national security. Philip Strong and Fred Durant from OSI also briefed the Office of National Estimates on the findings. CIA officials wanted knowledge of any Agency interest in the subject of flying saucers carefully restricted, noting not only that the Robertson panel report was classified but also that any mention of CIA sponsorship of the panel was forbidden…”.\n\nIn the years following the Robertson Panel a series of special military regulations were introduced to regulate reporting of UFO sightings. These were Joint-Army-Navy-Air Force Publication 147 (JANAP 146) of December 1953 and a 1954 revision of Air Force Regulation 200-2 (AFR 200-2) which introduced significant penalties on military, and some civilian personnel, for unauthorized release of information relating to UFO sightings.\n\nRuppelt's 1956 book The Report On Unidentified Flying Objects contained the first publicly released information about the Robertson Panel, with a summary of their proceedings and conclusions. Ruppelt's book did not include the names of the Panel members, nor any institutional or governmental affiliations.\n\nIn 1958, the National Investigations Committee on Aerial Phenomena (NICAP), a civilian UFO research group, requested that the Air Force release the panel's report. The Air Force released three summary paragraphs and the names of the panel's members. In 1966 a nearly full-length version of the report was printed in the science column of the Saturday Review.\n\nHynek's opinions changed in later years, so much that he became, to many, the scientifically respectable voice of Ufology. He would lament that the Robertson Panel had \"made the subject of UFOs scientifically unrespectable, and for nearly 20 years not enough attention was paid to the subject to acquire the kind of data needed even to decide the nature of the UFO phenomenon.\"\n\nAccording to Swords, the Robertson Panel's report had a significant impact throughout the U.S. Government, significantly reducing the level of concern over the UFO phenomena within the military and intelligence communities that had developed during 1952.\n\nA number of criticisms have been leveled at the Robertson panel. In particular that the panel’s study of the phenomena was relatively perfunctory and its conclusions largely predetermined by the earlier CIA review of the UFO situation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "59889", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59889", "title": "Royal Spanish Academy", "text": "Royal Spanish Academy\n\nThe Royal Spanish Academy (Spanish: Real Academia Española, generally abbreviated as RAE) is Spain's official royal institution with a mission to ensure the stability of the Spanish language. It is based in Madrid, Spain, but is affiliated with national language academies in 22 other hispanophone nations through the Association of Academies of the Spanish Language. The RAE's emblem is a fiery crucible, and its motto is \"\" (\"Cleans, fixes, and gives splendor\").\n\nThe RAE dedicates itself to language planning by applying linguistic prescription aimed at promoting linguistic unity within and between various territories, to ensure a common standard. The proposed language guidelines are shown in a number of works.\n\nThe Royal Spanish Academy was founded in 1713, modeled after the Accademia della Crusca (1582), of Italy, and the Académie Française (1635), of France, with the purpose \"to fix the voices and vocabularies of the Castilian language with propriety, elegance, and purity\". King Philip V approved its constitution on 3 October 1714, placing it under the Crown's protection.\n\nIts aristocratic founder, , Duke of Escalona and Marquess of Villena, described its aims as \"to assure that Spanish speakers will always be able to read Cervantes\" – by exercising a progressive up-to-date maintenance of the formal language.\n\nThe RAE began establishing rules for the orthography of Spanish beginning in 1741 with the first edition of the (spelled from the second edition onwards). The proposals of the Academy became the official norm in Spain by royal decree in 1844, and they were also gradually adopted by the Spanish-speaking countries in the Americas.\nSeveral reforms were introduced in the (1959, New Norms of Prosody and Orthography). Since the establishment of the Association of Academies of the Spanish Language in 1951, the Spanish academy works in close consultation with the other Spanish language academies in its various works and projects. The 1999 Orthography was the first to be edited by the twenty two academies together. The current rules and practical recommendations on spelling are presented in the latest edition of the (2010).\n\nThe headquarters, opened in 1894, is located at Calle Felipe IV, 4, in the ward of Jerónimos, next to the Museo del Prado. The Center for the Studies of the Royal Spanish Academy, opened in 2007, is located at Calle Serrano 187–189.\n\nAccording to Salvador Gutiérrez, an academic numerary of the institution, the Academy doesn't dictate the rules but studies the language, collects information and presents it. The rules of the language are simply the continued use of expressions, some of which are collected by the Academy. Although he also says that it is important to read and write correctly. \nArticle 1 of the statutes of the Royal Spanish Academy, translated from the Spanish, says the following:\n\nMembers of the Academy are known as (), chosen from among prestigious persons in the arts and sciences, including several Spanish-language authors, known as The Immortals (Spanish: ), similarly to their French Academy counterparts. The numeraries (Spanish: \"Números)\" are elected for life by the other academicians. Each academician holds a seat labeled with a letter from the Spanish alphabet, although upper and lower case letters are separate seats.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22800273", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22800273", "title": "Shared Values Initiative", "text": "Shared Values Initiative\n\nThe Shared Values Initiative was a public relations campaign created by the U.S. State Department and directed by Charlotte Beers, a former Madison Avenue advertising executive, to persuade viewers to be more aware, open and accepting of America by dispelling myths about the treatment of Muslims. The propaganda campaign was launched soon after September 11, 2001 and was intended to sell a “new” America to Muslims around the world by showing that American Muslims were living happily and freely in America without persecution. Although initially thought to be a success by the U.S. Government and Charlotte Beers’ team, the $15 million initiative was regarded as a failure.\n\nThe campaign was divided in phases; the first of which consisted of five mini-documentaries for television, radio, and print with shared values messages for key Muslim countries. The videos feature “Real Muslim Americans,” participating in their daily activities. $5 million of commercial airtime was purchased with the consent of the government in carefully considered Middle Eastern and Asian countries during Ramadan. Other phases of the Shared Values Initiative included speaking tours throughout Kuwait, Lebanon, Jordan, and Indonesia. Although speaking tours were allowed in these countries, government-run television channels in Egypt, Lebanon, and Jordan refused to run the ads.\n\nThe campaign also created a promotional website, www.opendialogue.com, that claimed to feature genuine thoughts and stories from Muslim Americans living as immigrants. The website encouraged users to share their own stories with an entry form, although it appears no user-generated stories were ever shared.\n\nEach video in the Shared Values Initiative ended with the tag line “Presented by the Council of American Muslims for Understanding… and the American people,” however, very few Americans knew anything about the campaign: CAMU was a “third party authenticity”—a public relations front group funded by the U.S. State Department specifically for this initiative. It was created in April, 2002 by Malik Hasan, chairman of CAMU, who admits that the idea came from the State Department.\n\nThe campaign's failure can be attributed to a number of different factors. In \"The semantics and ethics of propaganda\" Jay Black argues that the Shared Values Initiative was a failure because “persuasive media that [is] propagandistic […] would seem to be less likely to attract and convince open-minded media consumer than to reinforce the biases of the closed-minded true believers.” The campaign’s strategies were unsuccessful first and foremost due to an unreceptive audience. Christopher Simpson attributed the campaign’s failure to Beers' lack of PR experience: \"selling a product is simply not the same as promoting a belief.\" Beers was an advertising executive before working in Public Relations, and thus had little experience dealing with changing fundamental beliefs. Others simply said that because the Shared Values Initiative was the first of its kind, it “failed” because there were no past efforts with which to compare it, or measure its success.\n\nA study was conducted by Jami Fullerton and Alice Kendrick to evaluate the changed perceptions of viewers after watching videos from the SVI campaign, and subsequently determine the success of the SVI campaign. The sample was more than 500 non American college students, only 5.8% of whom were Muslim. The second sample was taken with 17% of those interviewed being Muslim. The data reported that after watching the videos, those interviewed were more likely to think that Muslims in America were treated fairly and able to live their lives how they want. Students also had more positive attitudes toward the U.S. government and its people.\n\nLess than a month after the release of the Shared Values Initiative, the State Department abruptly discontinued it. Two weeks before the U.S. invasion of Iraq, Charlotte Beers resigned. Inside Magazine commented thus: “She couldn’t do for Uncle Sam’s what she did for Uncle Ben's rice and so, after just 17 months on the job, and on the eve of war, the advertising whiz who became undersecretary of state for public diplomacy has quit, reportedly for health reasons…”\n"}
{"id": "428395", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428395", "title": "Sky marshal", "text": "Sky marshal\n\nA sky marshal (also known as air marshal, flight marshal, or, in the United States, FAM) is a covert law enforcement or counter-terrorist agent on board a commercial aircraft to counter aircraft hijackings. Sky marshals may be provided by airlines such as El Al (who provide sky marshals on every flight), or by government agencies such as the Austrian Einsatzkommando Cobra, Royal Canadian Mounted Police, German Federal Police, National Security Guard in India, Metropolitan Police SO18 (Aviation Security Operational Command Unit), Pakistan Airports Security Force or US Federal Air Marshal Service.\n\nThe history of in-flight security began in March 1962 with the US Federal Aviation Administration-directed a program to combat airplane hijackings. In that same year alone, there were numerous airplane hijackings (all happening one after another) in the USA that were planned with the ultimate aim to fly to Cuba. In response, the Federal Aviation Administration created the title of FAA Peace Officer. FAA Peace Officers were the first people to ever provide armed security onboard commercial aircraft. The original 18 In-Flight Security Officers, currently known worldwide as IFSOs, were the predecessor to all current in-flight security programs that exist today.\n\nIn response to the September 11 incidents, the Commonwealth instituted an Air Security Officer (ASO) Program under the Australian Federal Police in December 2001. These officers are generally referred to in the media as Sky Marshals. The ASO Programme provides a discreet anti-hijacking capability for Australian civil aviation by providing armed security personnel on board aircraft. This involves both random and intelligence-led placement of armed ASOs on flights operated by Australian registered air carriers, on both domestic and international flights.\n\nOfficers are armed and trained and equipped for a variety of situations on both domestic and international flights.\n\nIn Austria, armed air marshals are provided since 1981 by the Einsatzkommando Cobra.\n\nThe Canadian Air Carrier Protection/Protective Program (CACPP) began on September 17, 2002 when a Memorandum of Understanding was signed between the Royal Canadian Mounted Police with Transport Canada, the authority responsible for Canadian aviation security, and the Canadian Air Transport Security Authority (CATSA), for the implementation and administration of the CACPP. The program is conducted by specially trained undercover, armed RCMP officers (known as Aircraft Protective Officers- APOs) on selected domestic and international flights and all flights to the Ronald Reagan Washington National Airport. Pilots and flight attendants are advised of their presence and the officer will physically intervene should an unauthorized person attempt to gain control of an aircraft. APOs, however, will not be involved in controlling unruly passengers. While they are peace officers within Canadian territories, they rely on section 6(2) of the Tokyo Convention as a legal basis for intervening an incident outside of Canadian airspace. By law, such officers are exempt from acquiring a permit for importing or exporting their duty firearms when crossing the border. However, the exact nature of their weaponry is not released to the public except they are \"deadly and effective and should not damage the aircraft.\" The Canadian Forces Military Police members of the Canadian Forces Air Marshal Detail, are responsible for providing security to Canadian Forces aircraft, crew and passengers – passengers who may include the governor general, the prime minister and members of the royal family.\n\nMonths after the September 11 attacks, private operators like Jet Airways and Air Sahara introduced sky marshals in some of their flights and had plans to increase it. Indian Airlines had previously started this in December 1999 after the hijacking of Indian Airlines Flight 814.\n\nIn 2003, Air India had an agreement with a US directive to have air marshals on all of its US-bound flights. They are recruited from India's elite commando force National Security Guard.\n\nIreland does not have a dedicated sky marshal agency, although there is a National Civil Aviation Security Committee (NCASC). Limited capabilities are provided by the \"Garda Síochána\" Emergency Response Unit (ERU), the national police armed tactical unit, and backup may be provided by the counter-terrorism Garda Special Detective Unit (SDU) and the Army Ranger Wing (ARW) special forces unit in certain situations.\n\nThe Irish government allows armed flight marshals from the United Kingdom, United States, Canada, Israel, Australia and specific European Union (EU) countries onboard international flights landing from or destined for those countries in Irish airspace, once they are informed of their presence beforehand. Weapons carried by an air marshal in Ireland include a concealed handgun, taser, knife and pepper spray.\n\nIn Pakistan, armed sky marshals are deployed on all flights. Sky marshals are provided by Airports Security Force (ASF).\n\nThe ASF was established in 1976 under the Airports Security Force Act LXXVII of 1975 initially as the Directorate within the Department of Civil Aviation. After the hijacking of a Pakistan International Airlines aircraft in March 1981, sensing the contradictory requirements of security and facilitation, the Airports Security Force (ASF) was separated, and in December 1983, was placed under the folds of the Ministry of Defence.\n\nSingapore Airlines and Silkair deploy sky marshals in their flights. Such members are armed with firearms loaded with special ammunition and dart-firing stun gun.\n\nMembers are usually from either the Air Marshal Unit, the Security Command or the Special Tactics and Rescue (STAR) of the Singapore Police Force. Members have undergone extensive training to enable them to operate effectively within the confines of an aircraft.\n\nAn Armed Sky Marshal Program was began in the United Kingdom in 2003 - in response to growing threats to Civilian Passenger Aircraft. The Metropolitan Police Service's Aviation Security Operational Command Unit (SO18) is tasked with operating the Sky Marshal Program, for which all Sky Marshals report to. The extent and size of the program is relatively unknown as few details are released to the media due to the sensitivity of the operation.\n\nThe US Federal Aviation Administration began its \"Sky Marshal\" program in 1968, which eventually became the FAA Federal Air Marshal Program in 1982; the program later became the Federal Air Marshal Service in January 2002 and after the handover of FAA security duties to the Transportation Security Administration. In 2005, Rigoberto Alpizar was shot dead by two sky marshals on a jetway at Miami International Airport. Currently, Federal Air Marshal Officers are under the Transportation Security Administration. Under the Visible Intermodal Prevention Response (VIPR) system, started up circa 2005, FAMs began to patrol non-aviation sites like bus terminals and train stations.\n\n"}
{"id": "19064230", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19064230", "title": "Social interventionism", "text": "Social interventionism\n\nSocial interventionism is an action which involves the intervention of a government or an organization in social affairs. Such policies can include provision of charity or social welfare as a means to alleviate social and economic problems of people facing financial difficulties; provision of health care; provision of education; provision of safety regulations for employment and products; delivery of food aid or recovery missions to regions or countries negatively affected by an event; adoption programs; etc.\n\nSome social interventionist policies have been labelled by critics as social authoritarianism due to views that the policies violate individual freedom or human rights. Such policies include conscription; state-forced abortions like in China's One child policy or bans on abortion and birth control; bans on associations and organizations; forced sterilization programs; mandatory institutionalization of people with mental or physical disabilities; prohibition of drugs or items; bans on homosexual relationships; segregation policies; state-sponsored discrimination or persecution of people based on age, cultural identity, ethnicity, gender, people with mental or physical disabilities, race, social position, political affiliation, religion, and sexual orientation. This criticism also arises from the use of social interventionism by authoritarian or totalitarian governments such as in the Soviet Union, Fascist Italy, and Nazi Germany.\n\nAcademic research of Social Interventions occurs in many public policy schools around the world. Some universities also have dedicated research centres or clusters covering Social Intervention, for example the Department of Social Policy and Intervention, University of Oxford.\n"}
{"id": "6700423", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6700423", "title": "Tangshan protest", "text": "Tangshan protest\n\nThe Tangshan protest () occurred in 2004 after more than 11,000 farmers in Hebei Province, China signed a petition calling for the removal of Communist Party officials who were allegedly involved in corruption. The protest led to a crackdown on rights activists and further repression of the farmers.\n\nBetween 1992 and 1997, 23,000 Chinese farmers were resettled in Tangshan City, Hebei to make way for the Taolinkou reservoir, some to east of Beijing. By 2004, more than eight years after they had been moved, the displaced farmers had not been properly compensated. The farmers asserted that up to 60 million yuan of compensation funds had been misappropriated by officials from the local Government. They said they were owed 13,000 yuan (U.S. $1,570) per household in compensation but some had received only half the amount, while others had received nothing.\n\nUnder the leadership of Zhang Youren, a peasant activist, the farmers organised a petition. They were given advice and encouragement by Yu Meisun and Li Boguang, both legal scholars, and Zhao Yan a journalist with the magazine \"China Reform\". The petition, signed by 11,238 farmers, was entitled \"The request to remove the National and Heibei Province People's Congress Representative status of Tangshan Municipal Communist Party Secretary, Zhang He\". The petition described the living conditions of the displaced farmers and how previous appeals had led to beatings, detention and forced labour.\n\nIn February 2004, a group of ten farmer representatives travelled to the capital to submit their petition to the National People's Congress. In his opening speech to the Congress, Prime Minister Wen Jiabao promised a crackdown on corruption and illegal land seizures. Nevertheless, the farmers from Tangshan were rounded up by the Beijing police who accused them of being Falungong members and subversives. Zhang Youren was put under pressure to denounce the 'criminals' who had supported the petition. Zhao Yan quickly lost his job with the China Reform magazine and by the end of the year he had been imprisoned; he was still in jail two years later when the authorities finally convicted him of fraud. Li Boguang was arrested in December 2004 but released after a few weeks on condition that he had no further involvement in farmer protests. Yu Meisun, who had already served an earlier jail sentence, was able to publish an online diary that gave details of police harassment.\n\nYu Meisun's diary includes the following account by Zhao Yan:\n\nSince early this year, displaced people from Tangshan and Qinhuangdao here in Hebei, and Fu'an City and Minhou Country in Fujian whose rights have long been violated have been demanding the recall of their Party Secretaries and mayors, making 2004 a landmark year for peasant activism. But these campaigns have been unlawfully suppressed by local police. The corrupt officials who are targets of the people's boiling grievances haven't been affected at all... This will ultimately lead the peasants to despair of any method but rebellion, and we'll see a new peasant revolution. In a couple of days, I'll go to Tangshan to visit Zhang Youren. Let's see if Zhang He has the nerve to arrest and charge me!\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51197610", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51197610", "title": "Tehwildar", "text": "Tehwildar\n\nTehwildars in the Mughal court, were the female financial officers assigned to the zenana.\n\nThe majority of the consolidation of Mughal court etiquette occurred under the reign of Emperor Akbar. Differing accounts of the size of his harem range anywhere from 300 to 5,000 wives. Residing within the zenana were also eunuchs, concubines, members of the royal household, servants, and entertainers, all of which comprised a massive community within itself. As such, the necessity for organizing the administration of zenana life led to the creation of several official posts within the harem.\n\nAmong these positions was the Tehwildar. Described as the \"lady accounts officer and cashier to whom all officials, including daroghas, had to apply for their salaries,\" she was responsible for all of the financial transactions related to the zenana and its residents. The disbursement of salaries may have been the primary responsibility of the cash-keeper. However, other duties included the administration of allowances to the royal women. All requests of funds were first sent to the Tehwildar for approval. She then wrote a memorandum to the applicant who approved her official document. Afterward the treasury minister would release the funds in cash.\n\n"}
{"id": "27947263", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27947263", "title": "The City is For All", "text": "The City is For All\n\nThe City is For All is a volunteer based grassroots organization operating in Budapest (Hungary), in which homeless (currently or past) and non-homeless activists work together for housing rights and social justice.\n\nThe organization operates as an informal advocacy group. It is an independent group that depends on the volunteer work contribution and financial support of its members. The group represents a wide range of people living in poverty and/or homelessness. The group’s goal is to empower homeless people to stand up for their human dignity and to fight for right to housing. Homeless people play a leading role in all aspects of the group.\n\nThe organization was formed with homeless and non-homeless participants of a workshop held by Picture The Homeless from New York, after their visit in Budapest in August, 2009. The workshops were financially supported by the Projects for Peace initiative.\n\nThe founding of the organization has been inspired by the Right to the City concept formulated by Henri Lefebvre and David Harvey, and the organization is a member of the Hungarian Right to the City alliance.\n\nThe City is for All regularly organizes events that contribute to the protection of homeless people’s rights, advocate for their interests, and change the social perception of homeless people.\n\nThe group has been involved in an anti-eviction campaign, including civil disobedience against forced evictions.\n\nThe group frequently appears in the media in order to change the misconception that homeless people are incapable and hopeless.\n\nThis City is For All works together with other grassroots organizations representing the concerns of marginalized and oppressed groups. It cultivates international connections as well, exemplified by participation in the European Social Forum, in the Social Action Exchange project, in the International Alliance of Inhabitants or a discussion of student and homeless activists with American geographer Neil Smith and Canadian academic Deborah E. Cowen in 2010. The group participated in the 2009 FEANTSA conference \"Sharing the power - working together: Participation as a tool to solve homelessness\" in Copenhagen and in the 2010 University of Barcelona - Associació Prohabitatge - FEANTSA conference \"Housing Rights: from Theory to Practice\" in Barcelona.\n\nIn the June 2010, the group held a workshop for Slovenian social workers and homeless people on self-organizing at a conference organized by Slovenian street newspaper NGO Kings of the Street.\n\nTwo members of the organization observe and participate in the meetings of the Council of Ten, which is the consultative body of homeless service providers in Budapest.\n\nThe City is For All also acts as an advocate for homeless people using the shelter system by processing complaints and concerns about social services and forwarding them to the responsible authorities and representing the claimants.\n\nThe group continuously organizes outreach sessions in homeless shelters and drop-in centers to make homeless people aware of their rights and to promote their self-determination.\n\nThe City is For All works in working groups and also has weekly plenary sessions discussing general issues and the reports of the teams. The organization has four working groups.\n\nArticle written on the basis of the organization's homepage.\n\n"}
{"id": "1446038", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1446038", "title": "Theistic science", "text": "Theistic science\n\nTheistic science, also referred to as theistic realism, is the pseudoscientific proposal that the central scientific method of requiring testability, known as methodological naturalism, should be replaced by a philosophy of science that allows occasional supernatural explanations which are inherently untestable. Proponents propose supernatural explanations for topics raised by their theology, in particular evolution.\n\nSupporters of theistic realism or theistic science include intelligent design creationism proponents J. P. Moreland, Stephen C. Meyer and Phillip E. Johnson.\n\nInstead of the relationship between religion and science being a dialogue, theistic science seeks to alter the basic methods of science. As Alvin Plantinga puts it, this is a \"science stopper\", and these concepts lack any mainstream credence.\n\nIn 1987 the United States Supreme Court ruled in \"Edwards v. Aguillard\" that a Louisiana law requiring that creation science be taught in public school science classes, along with evolution, was unconstitutional because the law was specifically intended to advance a particular religion. Academic UC Berkeley law professor Phillip E. Johnson, a prominent supporter of the law, became convinced that creationists had lost the case because the methodological naturalism used by the scientific community in defining science does not include supernatural processes, and therefore (unfairly, in his opinion) excluded creationism. He concluded that creationists must therefore redefine science to restore the supernatural, and developed the wedge strategy. The intelligent design movement began with the publication of \"Of Pandas and People\" in 1989, and Johnson later became its de facto leader.\n\nIn his 1995 book \"Reason in the Balance: The Case Against Naturalism in Science, Law and Education\", Johnson labelled his position \"theistic realism\" which, in contrast to methodological naturalism, assumed \"that the universe and all its creatures were brought into existence for a purpose by God. Theistic realists expect this 'fact' of creation to have empirical, observable consequences that are different from the consequences one would observe if the universe were the product of non rational causes\". While \"God always has the option of working through regular secondary mechanisms\" which were often to be seen, \"many important questions—including the origin of genetic information and human consciousness—may not be explicable in terms of unintelligent causes\".\n\nIn an essay written in 1996, Johnson wrote of the intelligent design movement that \"My colleagues and I speak of 'theistic realism' — or sometimes, 'mere creation' — as the defining concept of our movement. This means that we affirm that God is objectively real as Creator, and that the reality of God is tangibly recorded in evidence accessible to science, particularly in biology.\" Johnson presents theistic realism as a philosophical justification for intelligent design in his book, \"Reason in the Balance\". According to Johnson, true knowledge begins with the acknowledgment of God as creator of the universe, the unifying characteristic of which is that it was created by God. Theistic realism relies on a concept of God which involves the notions that He is real, personal, and acting in the world through mechanistic creationism.\n\nThe Wedge Document of 1999 states \"Design theory promises to reverse the stifling dominance of the materialist world view, and to replace it with a science consonant with Christian and theistic convictions.\"\n\nMoreland describes theistic science as a research program that is \"rooted in the idea that Christians ought to consult all they know or have reason to believe in forming and testing hypotheses, explaining things in science and evaluating the plausibility of various hypotheses, and among the things they should consult are propositions of theology (and philosophy)\", and defines its two central propositions as:\n\nHe recommends that the way science is practised should be fundamentally altered to make God's intervention an acceptable scientific explanation, but would not apply this in all areas, as \"theologians have little interest in whether a methane molecule has three or four hydrogen atoms\". He would see miraculous intervention being needed as God \"designed the world for a purpose\", and \"has directly intervened in the course of its development at various points\" which would include \"directly creating the universe, first life, the basic kinds of life, and humans\".\n\nIn a 1991 paper, Plantinga identifies theistic science with creation science:\nHe suggests that generally God uses secondary causes, but miracles may be needed when theistic scientists are unable to find a materialistic explanation. In 1997 he wrote \"Why couldn't a scientist think as follows? God has created the world, and of course He created everything in it directly or indirectly. After a great deal of study, we can't see how he created some phenomenon P (life, for example) indirectly; thus probably he has created it directly.\"\n\nPlantinga also refers to this concept as Augustinian science, and states that \"in doing Augustinian science, you start by assuming the deliverances of the faith, employing them along with anything else you know in dealing with a given scientific problem or project.\" Plantinga argues for the acceptance of differing worldview-partisan sciences in place of a single common science.\n\nPlantinga employs a conflict thesis in assessing the relationship between religion and science. These views have been criticised by Christian physicist Howard J. Van Till, who rejects the conflict thesis, for relying on \"folk exegesis\" in his assessment of the bible's teachings on creation. Van Till argues that the problem is not evolution, but its misuse for \"naturalistic apologetics\".\n\nPhilosopher and Roman Catholic priest Ernan McMullin also disagrees with Plantinga's call for a theistic science, stating that it should not be considered to be science at all, and suggesting that Plantinga seriously understates the evidential support for evolution. Plantinga only disagrees with naturalism, not with evolution.\n\nSimilar ideas have been expressed by George M. Marsden and Mehdi Golshani (the latter referring to it as 'Islamic science').\n\n"}
{"id": "4428087", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4428087", "title": "Udit Raj", "text": "Udit Raj\n\nUdit Raj is an Indian Member of Parliament in the Lok Sabha, representing the North-west Delhi constituency. Raj is also the National Chairman of the All India Confederation of SC/ST Organizations. He is an influential leader from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) as well as nationally as a social activist for marginalised communities like SC/ST. Udit Raj is a member to the BJP National Executive.\nHe was born in Ramnagar, Uttar Pradesh into an ethnic group called Khatik which is recognised as a Scheduled Caste , and studied for BA at Allahabad University. He took admission at Jawaharlal Nehru University, New Delhi in 1980. He was selected for the Indian Revenue Service in 1988 and served as the Deputy Commissioner, Joint Commissioner and Additional Commissioner of Income Tax at New Delhi. On 24 November 2003 he resigned from government service and formed the Indian Justice Party. He is a prominent activist working on behalf of India's SC/ST communities. \n\nHe joined the BJP on 23 February 2014. In the past he had opposed the BJP, but by then regarded it as sympathetic to the aboriginal SC/ST communities.\n\nRaj, a Dalit, converted from Hinduism to Buddhism in 2001.\n\n"}
{"id": "56399046", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56399046", "title": "Vale of Tears: Revisiting the Canudos Massacre", "text": "Vale of Tears: Revisiting the Canudos Massacre\n\nVale of Tears: Revisiting the Canudos Massacre in Northeastern Brazil, 1893–1897 is a book by historian Robert M. Levine published by the University of California Press in 1992. The book goes into detail of the Massacre that occurred in the Northeastern state of Bahia. Focused on the events from 1893-1897, the book looks at the life of Antônio Conselheiro and the city that he created. Antônio Conselheiro was a Brazilian religious leader, preacher, and the creator of Canudos, the scene of the War of Canudos (1896-1897). This war was between the state of Brazil and the 30,000 settlers that followed Antônio Conselheiro. After multiple confrontations the central government brutally took control of the city killing more than 15,000 people and destroying what was left of the town.\n\nRobert M. Levine's aim in this book is to look past the world view of Canudos and actually look at all the dimensions- at the local, state, regional, and national levels; and to understand Conselheiro's movement and his vision on their own terms. In 1888 slavery was abolished in Brazil and by 1889 Brazil underwent major changes within their government. They had changed from a monarchy to a republic and with that came a big change economically and politically. The state of Bahia suffered because of the changes that were being made and this allowed for people to take control and lead. Conselheiro unhappy with the government decided to go around to all local cities within the state. During the day he would repair that towns church or their local graveyard. After a long days work he would preach about God and that judgement day is coming but would also make political statements as well. He was known to be a monarchist and thought that the idea of a republic would fail. Most of the people listening to him speak were illiterate and lived a hard life out in the brutal conditions of Northeastern Brazil. Many of the former slaves or ancestors of slaves. He was a brilliant speaker and could captivate an audience like nothing anyone had seen.\nSoon people started following him and they then created Canudos in 1893. Rumors of a crazed man leading a group of fanatics in northern Brazil soon consumed the nation. Hundreds of different newspapers were created depicting these people as crazy armed savages. This was largely because Euclides da Cunha and his writing. He wrote the book Os Sertões, a piece of literature that is a cornerstone in Brazilian literacy. Da Cunha's book depicts the people of Canudos as insane and violent. Canudos while having this bad reputation was actually quite nice compared to the rest of the backlands. Unlike many other cities Canudos lived relatively crime free. Prostitution, use of any substances including tobacco and alcohol were banned and could mean prison sentences. While food and water was always needed they had enough to supply the people unlike many other cities. Conselheiro would work during the day repairing churches and doing daily activities. He lived a modest life living just as all others did.\n\nBeing a radical religious leader Conselheiro had made enemies with both the Catholic church and the central government. For his own safety he felt the need to hire armed body guards called by the people Jagunço. Fame had grown of Canudos and because of this the government sent 30 armed men there to see if they were any real threat. The body guards confused by the armed men open fired and a gun fight broke out. Conselheiro made it out alive. The incident caused panic and the central government wanted Canudos gone. in 1896 the federal government planned a second attack, this time with over 100 men. At this point in Canudos the population is at its peak with over 30,000 residence and almost 5,000 homes. They attacked once again and were met by 500 armed men. The government suffered many casualties and were forced to retreat. By now the myth of this town had spread all throughout Brazil. A third attack with over 800 men came to Canudos but this result was just the same. After being forced to retreat 3 times the Brazilian government had, had enough and sent 8,000 men under the command of General Artur Oscar de Andrade Guimarães. This led to the brutal murders of over 15,000 settlers and the death of Conselheiro.\n\nReviewed by Jeffrey D. Needell in the \"Journal of Church and State\" 35 (1993): 910-911.\n\nReviewed by Jeff Lesser in the \"Journal of Latin American Studies\" 25 (1993): 397-398.\n"}
{"id": "11502551", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11502551", "title": "Women's Sport and Fitness Foundation", "text": "Women's Sport and Fitness Foundation\n\nWomen's Sport and Fitness Foundation (WSFF) is the UK charity that campaigns to make physical activity an everyday part of life for women and girls. It was founded in 1984 as Women's Sports Foundation (WSF), or Women's Sports Foundation UK. It gains most of its funding through Sport England.\n\nIt has funded a range of activities from community education to elite athlete training programmes and seeks to promote women in coaching and administration positions in sport as well as competition through its Women Get Set Go course.\n\nThe organisation has a remit to research the barriers women face in sport. This varies from allocations of playing fields through to leadership positions at board level for national governing bodies. In breaking these barriers the organisation has a range of coaching schemes which offer coaching schemes to get women into basic and higher level coaching. The organisation also offers examples of best practice through its What Works for Women resource.\n\nIn 2007 WSF was re-launched as the Women’s Sport and Fitness Foundation by the Prime Minister of the United Kingdom at a high-profile conference held at the Emirates Stadium.\n\n"}
{"id": "29621088", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29621088", "title": "World War I Memorial (Atlantic City, New Jersey)", "text": "World War I Memorial (Atlantic City, New Jersey)\n\nThe World War I Memorial is located in Atlantic City, Atlantic County, New Jersey, United States. The memorial was built in 1922, and added to the National Register of Historic Places on August 28, 1981.\n\nThe rotunda houses a bronze statue titled \"Liberty in Distress\" by Frederick W. MacMonnies.\n\nInside the rotunda there are four medallions (Army, Navy, Marines & Aviation) that alternate around the circumference of the frieze.  The names of battles in which Atlantic City soldiers fought are inscribed upon the architrave.\n\n"}
{"id": "19864722", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19864722", "title": "Young Political Majors", "text": "Young Political Majors\n\nYoung Political Majors, LLC, also known as YPM, was a private consulting firm, which registered people to vote as Republicans. It operated in several states including California, Florida, Arizona and Massachusetts. The firm was accused of misleading voters into registering as Republicans. \n\nIn California, YPM's founder Mark Jacoby, was arrested on October 18, 2008, and charged with two counts of felony voter registration fraud and two counts of perjury. The California Republican Party hired Jacoby's firm and paid it $7 - 12 for every Californian it registered as a member of the GOP. Dan Goldfine, an attorney for Jacoby, denied any wrongdoing by his client and called the charges \"baseless,\" saying the arrest outside an Ontario hotel was part of a \"long pattern of harassment against Mr. Jacoby for an entirely valid voter registration effort.\" \n\nOn October 16, 2009, however, Jacoby pleaded guilty to a misdemeanor count of voter registration fraud before Los Angeles Superior Court Judge David Horwitz, who immediately sentenced him to three years probation, 30 days of Caltrans service and the requirement to show proof that he is registered to vote at his correct address in Laguna Beach. As part of the plea agreement, the Judge dismissed two felony counts of perjury and one felony count of voter registration fraud. \n\nIn the summer of 2004, Jacoby, who had registered YPM at a Town 'N Country residence, appeared at the Gainesville election office with about 1,200 voter registration cards, of which 510 showed a switch to the Republican party. Elections Supervisor Beverly Hill says she was suspicious and randomly called some of the Republicans to verify they wanted to switch, but all of them said, \"Absolutely not...They didn't even know they had signed a registration form.\" \n\nYPM worked for JSM Inc., which worked for Arno Political Consultants, a Sacramento, California, firm that qualified 300 ballot initiatives in 20 states, including Florida's class size amendment. According to Mindy Tucker Fletcher, a senior adviser to the Florida GOP, the Republican National Committee had hired Arno for a voter registration drive. Arno claimed that Jacoby showed Arno copies of voter registration cards in \"their handwriting. They signed it. They checked the party affiliation...Why would they have a change of heart?\" \n"}
