{"id": "12055667", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12055667", "title": "Ahmed Ezz (businessman)", "text": "Ahmed Ezz (businessman)\n\nAhmed Ezz (born 1959) is an Egyptian businessman and one-time politician, the owner of Ezz Steel and the former chairman of Egypt's national assembly's budget committee. He is also a former senior member of the ruling National Democratic Party of Egypt (NDP) .\n\nAhmed Ezz was born to Muslim parents. In 1959, Ezz graduated from Cairo University with a degree in Civil Engineering. He has been elected twice as the head of the Arab Iron and Steel Union. Prior to his work in organized labor, Ezz was a parliamentary member representing the districts of Sadat-Monouf-Sers al-Liyan in Monofuyia from the year 2000 to 2011, and also the Chairman of the Planning and Budgeting Committee of the People's Assembly of Egypt as a member of the National Democratic Party. (According to Al Jazeera, he resigned from the NDP on 29 January 2011.)\n\nPrior to the revolution, opposition parties, other parliamentarians, and groups accused Ezz of monopolizing the steel industry in Egypt by holding more than 60 percent of the market share, describing it as an act that is backed up by the government, an act that was described by the active parliamentarian Aboul Ezz Al Hariri as \"enhancing the proliferation of monopolies rather than fighting them\". The groups mentioned are even blaming him of increasing the steel prices of as much as 70 percent. In response Ezz has told reporters that a competition law \"would at least provide a legal framework preventing everyone from making accusations\".\n\nEzz companies were investigated twice for monopoly by the Egyptian Competition Authority, both before and after the January 2011 Revolution. The companies were found \"not guilty\" of any monopolistic or anti-competition actions both times. Ahmed Ezz was also prosecuted for the same charge and found not guilty by the Egyptian Economic Court in July 2013.\n\nEzz was planning on running in the 2015 Egyptian parliamentary election as an independent in the Sadat City constituency, though he lost his appeal after he was disqualified from running. Another appeal was adjourned until 22 April 2015.\n\nAfter the resignation of Hosni Mubarak due to the 2011 Egyptian revolution, on 17 February 2011 Ahmed Ezz was arrested, along with former interior minister Habib el-Adly, former minister of housing Ahmed Maghrabi and former tourism minister Zuheir Garana. News of the arrests spread quickly in the local Egyptian press. As a result, many fear that Ahmed Ezz will not receive a fair trial under a 1981 provision of Egyptian emergency law. Amr Bargisi, a senior partner with the Egyptian Union of Liberal Youth, told the\" Washington Times\" \"I am afraid the divorce of wealth from power will probably not only lead to the unfair treatment of many businessmen and former politicians, but might also take Egypt in a direction that will be devastating for the economy and the prospects of democracy. Every businessman at the moment is a suspect of the revolutionary regime and the public. If this trend continues, we will see major capital flight from Egypt.\" Joe Stork, the deputy director of Human Rights Watch's Middle East and North Africa division, told the \"Washington Times\" of Mr. Ezz: \"Certainly he, like anyone else, has his right to a fair trial. The judicial proceedings he is subjected to should meet fair-trial standards; he should know the accusations against him; he should be able to confront those who are accusing him.\"\n\nIn an 11 March letter from prison that was published on the Bikyamas website, Mr. Ezz refuted the charges against him and warned that \"In this unprecedented time for the country, it is important to remember what our youth are calling for: freedom, fairness and democracy. My hope is that this commitment to a bright future for Egypt is not undermined at its first hurdle through a desire to find scapegoats. I truly hope I can at least depend on a full representation of the facts, due legal process and a fair trial.\"\n\nOn 5 October 2012, Ahmed Ezz was convicted of money laundering and sentenced to seven years in jail – plus a fine of 19.5bn Egyptian pounds (about $3bn; £2bn) Mr. Hammam was also fined 35 million dollars. These sentences were later appealed by Ahmed Ezz and they are currently being re-tried for this case.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8346335", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8346335", "title": "Aktieselskab", "text": "Aktieselskab\n\nAktieselskab (abbr.: ⅍, A/S or a/s, Unicode U+214d ⅍; literally meaning: \"stock company\") is the Danish name for a stock-based corporation. An \"aktieselskab\" may be either publicly traded or private.\n\nThe shareholders of an \"aktieselskab\" are not liable for the debts of the company. This can be used to protect the assets of the company against creditors by forming a group of companies. If an ⅍ is owned by a holding company (typically another ⅍), the profit from the production company can be transferred to the holding company. Since there is no liability for the owners of an ⅍, creditors from the production company will not be able to claim the profit in case of bankruptcy. Professional creditors, such as banks, protect themselves from this by demanding that the holding company guarantees the debts of the production company.\n\nThe formation of an \"aktieselskab\" requires a number of steps, including the following:\n\nAn \"aktieselskab\" can only acquire rights or incur obligations as a company when it has been registered at the Danish Commerce and Companies Agency.\n\nThe share capital registered at the Danish Commerce and Companies Agency must be at least 500,000 DKK. The capital can come from contributions of cash or other assets.\n\nIf half of the capital is lost the board of directors must convene a general meeting within six months.\n\nAn \"aktieselskab\" must have a board of directors consisting of at least three members. Members of the board can be elected for a period of up to four years depending on the articles of association.\n\nThe board members are usually elected at the general meeting. The articles of association may confer upon public authorities or any third party the right to appoint one or more members of the board of directors. In companies with an average workforce of over 35 employees during the last three years, the employees are entitled to elect among themselves a number of members of the board of directors equal to half the members of the board of directors elected by the shareholders or appointed by third parties.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43796274", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43796274", "title": "Alfred Faust", "text": "Alfred Faust\n\nAlfred Faust (15 December 1883 – 14 June 1961) was a German advertising executive, journalist, editor, and left-wing politician.\n\nBorn in Alsace (today part of France) in 1883, Faust was the son of a master plumber and winemaker. He had a business education, and an apprenticeship in printing, as well as attending a Catholic seminar in Belgium. In his youth he did military service, graduating as a Grenadier in Berlin, going on to teach French from 1905 on. From 1909 to 1914 Faust was a journalist, later working with advertisement for the company Café HAG, working in Bremen.\n\nBetween 1914 and 1918, Faust was called into the Imperial German Army, and fought in the First World War. In 1917, before the war's end, he joined the Independent Social Democratic Party of Germany (USPD), a left-wing split from the Social Democratic Party of Germany (SPD). When the war ended in 1918, he became heavily involved in radical politics, joining the December Imperial Council Congress () in Berlin. Returning to Bremen, he joined the government of the brief Bremen Soviet Republic (existing between January and February 1919). He was selected by the city's workers' and soldiers' council to serve as People's Commissar of press and propaganda, together with Curt Stoermer. He also served as editor of the \"Bremer Bürger-Zeitung\", which had been occupied by the workers.\n\nAfter the defeat of the Bremen Soviet Republic at the hands of the Army and Freikorps Caspari, he became chief editor of the \"Bremer Arbeiterzeitung\". In March 1919 he became a member of the Bremen National Assembly, serving as a deputy of the Bürgerschaft of Bremen from 1920 to 1933. In 1922 he joined the SDP, after the USDP was merged with it once more. Faust became an editor of the \"Bremer Volkszeitung\", led by Wilhelm Kaisen, becoming its chief editor in 1928.\n\nElected to the Reichstag after the November 1932 federal election, it wasn't until March 1933 that his seat was confirmed. The same month, after the rise of the Nazi Party and Adolf Hitler, he helped the fellow SDP politician Rudolf Breitscheid escape to Switzerland, but returned to Bremen himself. A month later, on 28 April, he was put in \"protective custody\" by the \"Sturmabteilung\" (SA), and held in \"KZ Mißler\", an early concentration camp in Bremen that later also held his fellow Bremen Soviet Republic politician Hermann Böse. Later placed in other detention centers, Faust was strongly physically abused by his captors, especially in \"KZ Mißler\".\n\nHe spent time in prison until 1934, when he was released from jail and expelled from Bremen, settling in Berlin. He worked for Ludwig Roselius, pro-Nazi founder of his previous employer Café HAG, at the \"Angelsachsenverlag\". Barbara Goette worked and corresponded extensively with Faust in Berlin. When the publisher was closed in 1944, he fled to his native Alsace, working as an editor in Mulhouse until 1949. In August 1949 Faust returned to Bremen again, rejoining the \"Angelsachsenverlag\". From 11 July 1950 on until his death he was head of the press office of the Senate of Bremen.\n\nAfter his death in 1961, the a street was named for him in the Obervieland district of Bremen: \"Alfred-Faust-Straße\".\n\n"}
{"id": "47337667", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47337667", "title": "Amparo Moraleda Martínez", "text": "Amparo Moraleda Martínez\n\nAmparo Moraleda Martínez (Madrid, 1964) is a Spanish business executive.\n\nMoraleda received a degree in industrial engineering at Comillas Pontifical University. She graduated from IESE Business School with an MBA.\n\nIn 1988 she joined IBM, and took the role of president for the company for Spain and Portugal in 2001. In 2005 she was named president of IBM Southern Europe (Spain, Portugal, Greece, Israel, Turkey). In the same year she was also inducted into the Women in Technology International Hall of Fame. \nAt the end of 2008, Moraleda left the company to join Iberdrola as International Director of Operations, a position she was in until February 2012. \nIn May 2015, she replaced Josep Piqué as Spanish advisor for Airbus. In October 2016, Moraleda joined the Royal Academy of Economic and Financial Sciences.\n"}
{"id": "2389553", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2389553", "title": "Andrew Kuan", "text": "Andrew Kuan\n\nKuan Yoke Loon, commonly known as Andrew Kuan () is the managing director of executive search firm Blue Arrow. From 2001 to 2004, Kuan was the group chief financial officer of the Jurong Town Corporation, one of four designated statutory boards that confer eligibility to contest in the presidential elections.\n\nKuan applied to run as a candidate in the Singapore presidential election, 2005. However, his application for a Certificate of Eligibility was rejected as his seniority and responsibility as JTC's Group Chief Financial Officer were, in the opinion of the Presidential Elections Committee, not comparable to those required under the Constitution.\n\nKuan joined the People's Action Party in 1999, and left in 2005 to qualify for the presidential elections.\n\nKuan announced his intention to compete in the 2005 Singapore presidential election where the incumbent president S R Nathan is a candidate. However his application for a certificate of eligibility to compete was unsuccessful resulting to Kuan alleging conspiratorial theories involving the government. \n\nKuan was disqualified by the Presidential Elections Committee for failing to meet the criteria for running for President in Singapore. The Committee said Mr Kuan's seniority and responsibility as JTC's Group Chief Financial Officer were not comparable to those required under the Constitution. A presidential candidate is required to have experience as chairman or chief executive officer of a statutory board or a company with a paid-up capital of at least S$100 million. \n\nSingaporean media have reported extensively on the circumstances surrounding Kuan's departure from his condominium's management council in 2001. Kuan originally said he left amicably, but later admitted to being voted out with 13 council members voting against him, 2 abstaining and 1 voting for him. Kuan attributed this to enmity aroused after he filed a police report against council member Chia Boon Teck, who is also a member of PAP, accusing him of forging signatures. The case was closed without prosecution, but Chia filed a defamation suit against Kuan in 2005 after details of the case and his identity were leaked by \"The New Paper\". Kuan had apologised unreservedly to Chia for embarrassment and distress that his statements had caused. They had reached an out-of-court settlement for Kuan's defamatory comments he had made, the settlement includes compensation for damages as well as legal costs.\n\nOn 9 August 2005, Singapore Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong called for all candidates to be open about their records, so that Singaporeans can make an informed judgement on them. He also encouraged Andrew Kuan's former employers to come forward, speak freely and tell Singaporeans what they know about him. On 11 August 2005, Kuan's former employer government-linked JTC Corporation called a news conference to provide details on the circumstances leading to Kuan's resignation in July 2004. Chong Lit Cheong, chief executive officer of JTC Corporation said that Andrew Kuan's work at JTC was unsatisfactory since his first year there and was asked to resign twice on 2003 and 2004. No details of why his work was unsatisfactory were provided, other than to note that no fraud or other crime was involved and that Mr Kuan required \"quite a fair bit of hand holding\". In reply, Kuan noted that he had worked at JTC Corporation for 37 months, extending his contract several times, and he was given performance bonuses and a raise during this period.\n\nKuan has announced his intention to contest in the 2011 presidential elections. Kuan was deemed ineligible once more by the PEC for failing to meet the criteria for running for President in Singapore. The Committee said in a statement that Mr Kuan's seniority and responsibility as JTC's Group Chief Financial Officer were not comparable to positions listed under the Constitution.\n\n"}
{"id": "22935873", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22935873", "title": "Avraham Rakanti", "text": "Avraham Rakanti\n\nAvraham Shmuel Rakanti (, 1888 – 3 March 1980) was a Greek-Israeli politician and journalist. In Greece he served as deputy mayor of Thessaloniki between 1925 and 1933, whilst in Israel he was a member of the Knesset for Herut between 1949 and 1951.\n\nBorn in Salonica in the Ottoman Empire, Rakanti studied in a heder. He became a member of the Mizrachi association, and in 1925 he joined the Revisionist Zionism movement, becoming head of the Greek branch. In the same year he became deputy mayor of Thessaloniki, a position he held until 1933. He also founded and edited the French language newspaper, Pro-Yisrael. In 1934 he made aliyah to Mandatory Palestine. A member of the Revisionist Zionist central committee, he was elected to the first Knesset in 1949 on the Herut list, but lost his seat in the 1951 elections. He died on 3 March 1980.\n"}
{"id": "21518334", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21518334", "title": "Basilan Jaycees", "text": "Basilan Jaycees\n\nJunior Chamber International – Basilan Inc. (Philippines), otherwise known as the Basilan Jaycees, extended on January 11, 1949 by JCI Manila and JCI Zamboanga, registered under the Laws of the Republic of the Philippines with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) as the Junior Chamber of Basilan City, Inc. on August 26, 1965, is an affiliate of Junior Chamber International Philippines, Inc. (JCIP) and Junior Chamber International (JCI), A Worldwide Federation of Young Leaders and Entrepreneurs.\n\nThe Basilan Jaycee Clubhouse is currently located at Isabela City, Basilan 7300\n\nThe Basilan Junior Chamber of Commerce was organized on January 11, 1949 in a Joint Chapter Extension Project of the Manila and Zamboanga Jaycees. It included some of Basilan’s most active and civic-minded personalities in law, public service, medicine and business at the outset. Its Charter President (1949–1950), Dr. Isidro Sta. Elena, eventually became JCP Regional Vice President for Northern Mindanao in 1951-1952. National President Joaquin V. Gonzalez flew in from Manila to witness the induction of the Chapter’s 3rd President (1951), Judge Doroteo de Guzman. 4th President (1952), Dr. Alejandro C. Infante, founder of the Infante Hospital in Isabela City, was the longest-serving Adviser of the Chapter, whose service to the organization spanned over 50 years, until his demise in 2007. He was followed by a succession of able young Presidents who steered the Chapter in its early years. Prominent businessmen Amado Borja (1953), Thomas Ba Leong (1953), Carlos F. Tan (1955), and Judge Francisco S. Atilano (1955) were among the pioneers of this intrepid group of young leaders who invested the Chapter with a strong foundation based on an enduring vision of leadership and service to the community.\n\nThe 8th President (1957), Retired Supreme Court Associate Justice Regino C. Hermosisima, Jr., and current 3-term Regular Member of the Judicial and Bar Council, now in his early 90s, also became a JCP Regional Vice President for Northern Mindanao (1954–1955). He presided over the controversial Aquino-Galman Double Murder Case in 1983. He has since retired from the Supreme Court, but has remained active in civic affairs as the Honorary National Chairman of the Young Men’s Christian Association (YMCA) of the Philippines. He was followed by the Chapter’s first elected two-termer, Emilio Lim (1958 & 1959) and then by Atty. Laurencio Saavedra (1960 & 1961) who also served two terms, Ricardo Madayag (1962), and then by Judge Cesar S. Principe (1963).\n\nThe Chapter was officially registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) on August 26, 1965, as the Junior Chamber of Basilan City, Inc., during the term of its 13th President (1964 & 1965), also a two-termer, and who likewise became the first JCI Senator of the Chapter, JCI Sen. Simplicio A. Bonifacio. He then went on to become a JCP Regional Vice President for Southern Mindanao (1968). A local politician, he served in the Basilan Provincial Board for three-terms before retiring in the early 1990s. He was followed by fellow lawyers Selso Manzanaris (1966) and Ricardo G. Mon (1967), who was on his third term as a City Councilor by the time he took over administration of the Chapter.\n\nThe organization became a force in local politics towards the late 1960s, when young politicians started to quickly fill up its ranks. Often split into two main opposing Liberal (LP) and Nacionalista (NP) wings, the organization mirrored the realities of local politics, serving as the most prestigious training ground for young politicians in the local arena. Chapter elections were hotly contested and these rivalries and factions were soon reflected in the floors of the Basilan City Council throughout the rest of the decade, well into the early years of the 1970s. As the organization continued to attract the sons of local political families of Basilan, this same period saw oppositionist young Turks take control of the Chapter. Being young themselves, Presidents Reynaldo Martinez (1968), Armando L. Salvador (1969), and Quirico Tan (1970) worked closely with opposition stalwart and 6-term Basilan City Mayor Leroy S. Brown in denouncing the increasingly difficult situation that unfolded in Manila and Mindanao. By then, Pres. Ferdinand E. Marcos' once popular administration seemed to unravel by the day, kicking off with the bloody Jabidah Massacre, followed by the Moro Uprising of the Moro National Liberation Front (MNLF), and then finally by the increasingly violent student-led First Quarter Storm militant street actions in 1969.\n\nResponding to the need for the Chapter to touch-base with Basilan’s core Muslim constituencies, even as the Nur Misuari-led secessionist movement continued to wreak havoc in the countryside, the members elected its first Muslim President (1971) in the person of a young Ulbert Ulama Tugung, a learned scholar and respected public servant who became a JCP Regional Vice President for Southern Mindanao (1977). He was ultimately appointed by Pres. Corazon C. Aquino to be the first Regional Governor of the Lupong Tagapagpaganap ng Pook (LTP) or the Regional Administration for Western Mindanao and Sulu. Sadly, his exemplary leadership was cut short by an assassin’s bullet. His wife, Jayceerette PP Elnorita Pamaran Tugung, was appointed LTP Regional Governor at his death, and went on to win as Congresswoman of Basilan in 1992-1995. He was followed by NP party member JCI Sen. Aniceto G. Mon (1972) the twin brother of the Chapter's 15th President, Ricardo Mon.\n\nThen on December 21, 1972, Pres. Ferdinand E. Marcos declared Martial Law and promptly placed Basilan City under a Military Government, presided over by Col. Tomas G. Nanquil, Jr., then the Brigade Commander of 24th Infantry Brigade stationed in Basilan, and then by Rear Admiral Romulo Espaldon, Commanding Officer of the Philippine Armed Forces' Southern Command. Basilan City was summarily abolished and replaced by the Province of Basilan as embodied in Presidential Decree No. 356 signed on December 27, 1973. Ten Municipalities were initially carved out of Basilan City through P.D. 593 promulgated on December 2, 1974.\n\nAtty. Ricardo G. Mon, who was Chapter President in 1967, was appointed as the first Mayor of Isabela Municipality. At around this time, the Basilan Jayceerettes made its glamorous presence known. A series of socio-civic projects were conducted by the wives of the Jaycees as they promoted advocacies which ranged from a variety of environmental concerns to education and community health.\n\nThe 24th President (1973), JCI Sen. Louis W. Alano started the first of what eventually came to be three terms at the helm of the Chapter.\n\nThe Chapter celebrated its Silver Jubilee under the administration of its 25th President (1974) Dr. Edgardo Eustaquio, a public servant and health practitioner, one of the founders of the Basilan Community Hospital and a three-term City Councilor of Isabela City. He was followed by 26th President (1975), local business taipan JCI Sen. Yu Chi Han, whose lasting legacy of forging deeper ties between the Chapter and the local business community strengthened the Jaycees more so because the political situation deteriorated further as Basilan’s highlands was transformed into a combat zone where the military staged running gun-battles with the MNLF and isolated bandit groups, the “black shirts” or “munduhin” as they came to be romantically called. Also, as the countryside was rent asunder by a total breakdown in the peace and order, right-wing vigilante groups such as the Ilonggo-based “ilaga” and the Chavacano-Bisaya “mundo oscurro” rose up from nowhere and started to give the Muslim communities tit-for-tat.\n\nIn the midst of the seeming chaos, the Chapter evolved once again, officially changing its name to the Basilan Jaycees, Inc., during the incumbency of the 27th (1976) and 28th (1977) President, JCI Sen. Fernando S. Cariaga, the first in a line of educators and faithful church workers, whose steady management of the Chapter’s affairs gave it a much-needed breather from all the politics which threatened to pull the chapter apart. A surprising economic upturn, engendered by the Marcos administration’s many infrastructure projects and programs, gave the Chapter and the Basileños a healthy respite from the incessant conflict that bugged the island.\n\nWhat followed were some of the most active years of the Jaycees, led by JCI Sen. Kieck Seng Tan (1978) under whose able leadership the very first batch of Lady Jaycees were inducted, JCI Sen. Roque C. Tan (1979), and then again by JCI Sen. Louis W. Alano (1980), Engr. Tahir I. Latip (1981), currently Basilan's Provincial Engineer and the second Muslim to be elected President, Napoleon P. Yu (1982), and then for a third time, again by JCI Sen. Louis W. Alano (1983) wherein the Jaycees initiated the creation of political action committees and associations such as the Concerned Citizens’ Aggrupation (CCA) which gathered the local community in indignation rallies against the Marcos dictatorship immediately after the assassination of Sen. Benigno Aquino Jr., as well as organized an Operation Quick Count for the 1986 Snap Elections, in close coordination with the National Movement for Free Elections (NAMFREL). For this, he was eventually appointed by President Corazon C. Aquino as the OIC Governor of Basilan Province upon her accession in 1986. Currently, he is the Deputy Governor for Christian Affairs of the Autonomous Region of Muslim Mindanao (ARMM).\n\nThe 35th (1984) and 36th President (1985), also a two-termer, was Atty. Alvin G. Dans, a scion of yet another of the most established families in Basilan. He was eventually elected Mayor of the Municipality of Isabela for two terms, Governor of the Province of Basilan, and Congressman of the Lone District of the Basilan, appointed by Pres. Fidel V. Ramos as Undersecretary of the Department of Transportation and Communications (DOTC), he eventually became the Postmaster General of the Philippine Post Office. His wife, Jayceerette Past President Athena Dans is a Commissioner of the Bureau of Customs. He was followed by the 37th President (1986), Perfecto C. Antonio, Jr., a three-termer in the Provincial Board of Basilan Province. The 38th President (1987), Nonito T. Ramirez, was the Secretary of the Isabela City Council for some time.\n\nThe name of the Chapter was reverted to Junior Chamber of Basilan, Inc., under the auspices of the 39th (1988) and 40th President (1989) JCI Sen. Benedicto N. Peñaflor, following the JCI amendments during the World Congress in Taipei, Republic of China. He was followed by the 41st (1990) and 42nd President (1991), Michael M. Manapol, the Isabela City Tourism Officer from 1998 to 2007. A succession of able Presidents and leaders handled the Chapter in the 1990s, even as the ugly head of the Abu Sayyaf stole international headlines and totally re-wrote Basilan’s image here and abroad. The Chapter owes its existence in these most troubled times to the grit and temerity of Edgardo P. Ferrer (1992), well-connected businessman and entrepreneur, Rogelio J. Francisco (1993) an accomplished investment banker under whose term the Basilan Taguima Junior Jaycees was organized, Judge Danilo M. Bucoy (1994), the brave Regional Trial Court Judge who sentenced captured Abu Sayyaf terrorists to death, and the back-to-back two-termers Carlos F. Luy (1995 & 1996) and Edgar R. Suson (1997 & 1998).\n\nIt is particularly remarkable to note, however, that it took the Chapter all of half a century since its inception, and 20 years since its first female member was inducted, to finally elect its very first Lady President. The chapter’s 50th President (1999) JCI Sen. Laura W. Alano, was likewise elected National Vice President for Western Mindanao (2000). She was awarded ‘Most Outstanding National Vice President for Area V in 2000’ and is the first Lady JCI Senator of the chapter. She was followed by JCI Mem. Ma. Theresa M. Alano (2000), who was appointed by Pres. Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo as Assistant Secretary of the Department of Social Welfare and Development (DSWD) charged with Christian-Muslim Affairs and Mindanao in general, and then by JCI Mem. Tita Orbecido-Tan (2001), also a teacher, who spearheaded the creation of Junior Jaycee Chapters in Basilan. The 53rd President (2002), JCI Mem. Reymond E. Bicariato, was the Administrator of the Philippine National Red Cross – Basilan Chapter during his incumbency and organized relief efforts and extended aid, also with the assistance of the Jaycees, to the hostages of the Abu Sayyaf kidnapping spree of 2001-2002, forging lasting ties with the troops in the US-RP Balikatan 02-1 Joint Military Exercises. Our 54th President (2003), JCI Mem. Svetlana E. C. Sanchez, daughter of JCI Sen. Fernando Cariaga, signaled the generational shift in the chapter’s long history as the Baby Boomers eventually handed over control of the Chapter to succeeding generations of JCI Members.\n\nYet another page in the Chapter’s history was finally turned as, following the JCI Corporate Identity Program approved at the 2003 World Congress in Copenhagen, Denmark, the Chapter’s name was officially changed to Junior Chamber International – Basilan Inc., during the incumbency of the 55th President (2004), JCI Mem. Jaime J. A. Rivera. He was elected National Vice President for Western Mindanao for 2006. He is the Chapter’s first JCIP Academy and PRIME Graduate (Davao 2004), as well as Certified Local Trainer duly accredited by JCI University, his term has been characterized by a closer coordination with local government units, greater synergy with the business sector, and renewed ties with other Jaycee Chapters. He likewise won the \"Most Outstanding National Vice President Award of Recognition\" at the 2006 JCI Philippines National Convention held in Subic, Zambales on October 2006, and was appointed National Chairman of the Voice of Philippine Democracy project, as well as National Adviser of the Philippine Junior Jaycees, Inc. in 2007. The 56th President (2005) JCI Mem. Nuayme “Indah” M. Sangkula, hails from the prodigious Sangkula Clan of Sulu, and is also a teacher, the third Muslim President of the chapter. The flagship \"Miss Isabela Earth Pageant\" was held during this term, with the winner - Miss Bernadette Estrada (Tantoco) - carrying the Miss Western Mindanao - Earth title and reaching the semi-finals in the Miss Philippines-Earth 2005 in Manila. JCI Basilan Inc. likewise hosted the 1st Area Council Meeting of JCI Philippines Area 5 (Mindanao) at Lantaka Hotel, Zamboanga City.\n\nThe Chapter’s 57th President (2006) JCI Mem. Rowell C. Acaylar, is a Registered Nurse and a former Police Officer. He is currently a Clinical Instructor at the Mindanao Autonomous College Foundation Inc. (MACFI) in Lamitan City. His term is highlighted by twin victories at the National Convention Temyong Awards held in Subic, Zambales, where the Chapter’s only two bids for “Most Outstanding JCI Week Celebration” and “Most Outstanding JCI Family” both won coveted “Recognitions”, a substantial feat considering the competition for said categories. It was also on this year that JCI Basilan Inc. voluntarily split into two, with the male members retaining the Chapter’s name and seal, while lady JCI Members were assisted in forming the all-female JCI Basileña, officially recognized on April 8, 2006 during the 2nd National Board Meeting of JCI Philippines Inc., held in Bacolod City, Negros Occidental.\n\nSIDEBAR: JCI Basileña was led by its Charter President, JCI Mem. Carlissele Rodriguez-Navales, followed by JCI Mem. Bernadita F. Hontucan in 2007, and Rev. May Casiano-Casada, a female Priest of the Episcopal Church in 2008 before falling into a hiatus. The all-female chapter has since been revived for 2014 by JCI Mem. Ma. Jennesa Santos-Tubongbanua, Isabela City Councilor.\n\nYet another example of inter-generational dynamics happening in the Chapter is the election of Atty. Orheim T. Ferrer, son of 1992 PP Edgardo Ferrer, as the Chapter’s 58th President (2007). He is followed by the 59th President JCI Mem. James Abner S. Rodriguez, Isabela City Councilor, school administrator and community organizer, with strong ties to the local military establishment.\n"}
{"id": "1563699", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1563699", "title": "Bianca Lawson", "text": "Bianca Lawson\n\nBianca Jasmine Lawson (born March 20, 1979) is an American film and television actress. She is perhaps best known for her regular roles in the television series \"\", \"Goode Behavior\", \"Pretty Little Liars\", and \"Rogue\". She has also had recurring roles in the series \"Sister, Sister\", \"Buffy the Vampire Slayer\", \"The Steve Harvey Show\", \"Dawson's Creek\", \"The Secret Life of the American Teenager\", \"The Vampire Diaries\", \"Teen Wolf\", and \"Witches of East End\". In 2016, Lawson began starring in the Oprah Winfrey Network drama series, \"Queen Sugar\".\n\nLawson was born in Los Angeles, California. She is the daughter of Denise (née Gordy) and actor Richard Lawson, making her the step-daughter to Lawson's second wife Tina Knowles, and step-sister to singers Beyoncé and Solange Knowles. Lawson is also the great-niece of Motown founder Berry Gordy. She attended the Stella Adler Studio of Acting and graduated from Marymount High School, a Catholic school in Los Angeles. She then went on to study film and psychology at University of Southern California. Lawson's parents are both African-American, and she also has Italian, Native American, Portuguese, and Creole ancestry.\n\nLawson began acting at the age of nine, having appeared in commercials for Barbie and Revlon. In 1993, she was cast in the television series \"\" as series regular Megan Jones. She appeared in multiple episodes of The WB sitcoms \"Sister, Sister\" as Rhonda Coley and \"The Steve Harvey Show\" as Rosalind. In 1996, she co-starred in the UPN sitcom \"Goode Behavior\"—which lasted for just one season—as Bianca Goode, the teenage daughter of the titular family. In 1997, she appeared in \"Buffy the Vampire Slayer\" as vampire slayer Kendra Young. In 1999, she appeared in The WB's \"Dawson's Creek\" as rival character Nikki Green.\n\nIn 2009, Lawson was cast as Shawna in \"The Secret Life of the American Teenager\". That same year, she was cast in the CW television series \"The Vampire Diaries\", as witch Emily Bennett. In December 2009, she was cast as Maya St. Germain in the ABC Family series \"Pretty Little Liars\", based on the book series by Sara Shepard. She appeared in that show from June 2010 through August 2012. Since 2012, she has had a recurring role as Ms. Morell in the MTV television series \"Teen Wolf\", based on the original film from 1985. In 2014, Lawson had a recurring role as Eva in \"Witches of East End\". In 2015, she was cast as series regular Talia Freeman in season three of \"Rogue\".\n\nLawson has made appearances in two different television miniseries. In 1998, she appeared in \"The Temptations\" as Diana Ross (whom Lawson is related to through Ross's daughter Rhonda Ross Kendrick); and in 2001, she was cast as Anna Bella Monroe in Anne Rice's \"The Feast of All Saints\".\n\nSome of Lawson's film credits to date include \"Primary Colors\" (1998), \"Save the Last Dance\" (2001), \"Bones\" (2001) and \"Breakin' All the Rules\" (2004).\n\nAside from film and television, Lawson provided her voice to the 2011 video game \"\".\n\nIn 2016, Lawson was cast in the Oprah Winfrey Network drama series, \"Queen Sugar\" created by Ava DuVernay.\n"}
{"id": "5015216", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5015216", "title": "Big Hairy Audacious Goal", "text": "Big Hairy Audacious Goal\n\nA Big Hairy Audacious Goal (BHAG - pronounced BEE-hag) is a strategic business statement similar to a vision statement which is created to focus an organization on a single medium- to long-term organization-wide goal which is audacious, likely to be externally questionable, but not internally regarded as impossible.\n\nJames Collins and Jerry Porras coined the term \"Big Hairy Audacious Goal\" in their 1994 book \"\". A BHAG encourages organisations to define visionary goals that are more strategic and emotionally compelling. Many organisations set goals that describe what they hope to accomplish over the coming days, months or years. These goals help align employees to work together more effectively. Often these goals are very tactical, such as \"achieve 10% revenue growth in the next 3 months\". In contrast, Collins and Porras define a BHAG as \"an audacious 10-to-30-year goal to progress towards an envisioned future\".\nThe authors claim that a company may have more than one BHAG; there may be one over-reaching BHAG and other shorter-term BHAGs.\n\nMahoney and McCue sound a cautionary note when assessing BHAGs, seeing them as \"[w]orthwhile when relevant to the business; inspiring to employees but disappointing when dropped in a few years in favor of other goals\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51087060", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51087060", "title": "Bikanta", "text": "Bikanta\n\nBikanta is a startup biotech company developing of clinical products that focus on detection of cancer by inserting fluorescent nanodiamonds. \n\nThe company was founded in 2013 and is based in Berkeley, California. Bikanta raised $120k in seed funding in 2014. In 2014, Bikanta participated in the Y Combinator program and was one of four companies backed by Y Combinator.\n\n"}
{"id": "29343046", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29343046", "title": "Cleanliness suitability", "text": "Cleanliness suitability\n\nCleanliness suitability describes the suitability of operating materials and ventilation and air conditioning components for use in cleanrooms where the air cleanliness and other parameters are controlled by way of technical regulations. Tests are carried out to determine this.\n\nTrends such as the miniaturization of structures as well as increased levels of reliability in technology, research and science require controlled “clean” manufacturing environments. The task of such environments is to minimize influences which could damage the products concerned. The cleanroom environments created by filtering the air were originally developed for the fields of microelectronics and microsystem technology but are now used in a wide range of other high technology sectors such as photovoltaics and the automotive industry.\n\nDepending upon the industry and process concerned, different factors may have a damaging influence on a product, e.g.:\n\nThe following factors may be responsible for contamination:\n\n"}
{"id": "40927359", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40927359", "title": "Community Futures", "text": "Community Futures\n\nThe Community Futures Network of Canada is an extensive network of 269 community futures development corporations. The national Community Futures Program is administered by four regional development agencies, the Atlantic Canada Opportunities Agency (ACOA), Canadian Economic Development for Québec Regions (CED-Q), Western Economic Diversification Canada (WD), and the Federal Economic Development Initiative for Northern Ontario (FedNor) under Industry Canada (IC). In Western Canada the Community Futures Program is delivered through a network of 90 non-profit organizations that are supported by four associations and one Pan-West Community Futures Network.\n\nThe Community Futures Development Association of B.C. dba Community Futures British Columbia, is the provincial association for the 34 Community Futures offices located in British Columbia. The 34 Community Futures Development Corporations provide rural communities with a variety of services including business development expertise and loans, technical support, training and information. In addition to the business development component, Community Futures involve themselves in a wide array of community initiatives, including strategic planning processes, research and feasibility studies, and the implementation of a diverse range of community economic development projects.\n\nThe Community Futures Network of Alberta is the provincial association providing servant leadership to the 27 Community Futures offices located in rural Alberta. \n\nEach Alberta Community Futures is run by professional staff and operates on a non-profit basis, governed by a volunteer Board of Directors who are members of their local community. Services offered by Community Futures to their rural Alberta clients include: \n\nThe Community Futures Association of Manitoba, is the provincial association for the 16 Community Futures offices located within the province. It is located in Winnipeg on Lombard Avenue. The Community Futures Development Corporations provide rural communities with a variety of services including business development expertise and loans, technical support, training and information. In addition to the business development component, Community Futures involve themselves in a wide array of community initiatives, including strategic planning processes, research and feasibility studies, and the implementation of a diverse range of community economic development projects.\n\nThe Ontario Association of Community Futures Development Corporations Inc. (OACFDC) is the provincial association for all offices located within the province. The Community Futures Program is a Government of Canada initiative which supports 61 Community Futures Development Corporations (CFDCs) in Ontario— FedDev Ontario works with the 37 CFDCs in rural Eastern and Southern Ontario, while FedNor works with the 24 organizations in the North.\n\nCFDCs offer a wide variety of programs and services supporting community economic development and small business growth.\n\nIn particular, they provide:\nThese community-based, not-for-profit organizations are staffed by professionals and are each governed by local volunteer boards of directors familiar with their communities' needs, concerns and future development priorities.\n\nIn British Columbia, a 1980 pilot project established through the Nanaimo Community Employment Advisory Society on Vancouver Island provided the framework for what would later become Community Futures. It was the first federally funded employment project aimed at encouraging members of the local business community to participate in stimulating private sector employment. In 1983, the government created Local Employment Assistance and Development corporations in economically depressed regions across Canada. These LEAD corporations were later rolled into the Community Futures Program, which was announced in 1986 as part of the federal government's Canadian Jobs Strategy. The initial objective was to address areas \"of chronic and acute unemployment which, given the economic development trends, gave the program a rural orientation\"\n\nThe Community Futures program model originally consisted of two organizations, each with their own Board of Directors and a distinct mandate. One was the Business Development Centre, which provided the business support and loan functions performed by the original LEAD corporations, the second was the Community Futures Committee which was intended to assess the community's economic potential and areas of opportunity for job creation and business development. These two organizations were expected to work closely with each other.\n\nCommunity Futures offices operate under the guidance of a Board of Directors that is made up of members of the community. These boards \"build trust\" with the local community, as they are composed or a range of private and public stakeholders from the local community.\n"}
{"id": "58824", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58824", "title": "Corporate raid", "text": "Corporate raid\n\nIn business, a corporate raid is the process of buying a large stake in a corporation and then using shareholder voting rights to require the company to undertake novel measures designed to increase the share value, generally in opposition to the desires and practices of the corporation's current management. The measures might include replacing top executives, downsizing operations, or liquidating the company.\n\nCorporate raids were particularly common in the 1970s, 1980s, and 1990s in the United States. By the end of the 1980s, management of many large publicly traded corporations had adopted legal countermeasures designed to thwart potential hostile takeovers and corporate raids, including poison pills, golden parachutes, and increases in debt levels on the company's balance sheet.\n\nIn later years, some corporate raiding practices have been used by \"activist shareholders\", who purchase equity stakes in a corporation to influence its board of directors and put public pressure on its management.\n\nCorporate raids became the hallmark of a handful of investors in the 1970s and 1980s, particularly highlighted by the public suicide of Eli Black. Among the most notable corporate raiders of the 1980s were Carl Icahn, Victor Posner, Meshulam Riklis, Nelson Peltz, Robert M. Bass, T. Boone Pickens, Harold Clark Simmons, Kirk Kerkorian, Sir James Goldsmith, Saul Steinberg and Asher Edelman. These investors used a number of the same tactics and targeted the same type of companies as more traditional leveraged buyouts and in many ways could be considered a forerunner of the later private equity firms. In fact it is Posner, one of the first \"corporate raiders\" who is often credited with coining the term \"leveraged buyout\" or \"LBO\".\n\nVictor Posner, who had made a fortune in real estate investments in the 1930s and 1940s, acquired a major stake in DWG Corporation in 1966. Having gained control of the company, he used it as an investment vehicle that could execute takeovers of other companies. Posner and DWG are perhaps best known for the hostile takeover of Sharon Steel Corporation in 1969, one of the earliest such takeovers in the United States. Posner's investments were typically motivated by attractive valuations, balance sheets and cash flow characteristics. Because of its high debt load, Posner's DWG would generate attractive but highly volatile returns and would ultimately land in financial difficulty. In 1987, Sharon Steel entered Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection.\n\nCarl Icahn developed a reputation as a ruthless \"corporate raider\" after his hostile takeover of TWA in 1985. The result of that takeover was Icahn systematically selling TWA's assets to repay the debt he used to purchase the company, which was described as asset stripping.\n\nIcahn also attempted the grand prize of U.S. Steel, launching a hostile takeover for 89% of the industrial giant for $7 billion ($ billion today) in late 1986 and only being rebuffed finally by CEO David Roderick on January 8, 1987.\n\nT. Boone Pickens' hostile takeover bid of Gulf Oil in 1984 led to shockwaves that such a large company could be raided. Gulf eventually sold out to Chevron for a then record $13.3 billion ($ billion today) \"white knight\" buyout.\n\nBritish raider Beazer also launched several successful hostile takeovers in the 1980s, the largest being that of Koppers in early 1988 for $1.81 billion ($ billion today).\n\nMany of the corporate raiders of the 1980s were onetime clients of Michael Milken, whose investment banking firm, Drexel Burnham Lambert helped raise blind pools of capital which corporate raiders could use to make legitimate attempts to take over companies and provide high-yield debt financing of the buyouts.\n\nDrexel Burnham raised a $100 million blind pool in 1984 for Nelson Peltz and his holding company Triangle Industries (later Triarc) to give credibility for takeovers, representing the first major blind pool raised for this purpose. Two years later, in 1986, Wickes Companies, a holding company run by Sanford Sigoloff, would raise a $1.2 billion blind pool. In later years, Milken and Drexel would shy away from certain of the more \"notorious\" corporate raiders as the firm and the private equity industry attempted to move upscale.\n\nIn 1985, Milken raised $750 million for a similar blind pool for Ronald Perelman, which would ultimately prove instrumental in acquiring his biggest target: The Revlon Corporation. In 1980, Ronald Perelman, the son of a wealthy Philadelphia businessman, and future \"corporate raider\", having made several small but successful buyouts, acquired MacAndrews & Forbes, a distributor of licorice extract and chocolate, which Perelman's father had tried and failed to acquire 10 years earlier. Perelman would ultimately divest the company's core business and use MacAndrews & Forbes as a holding company investment vehicle for subsequent leveraged buyouts including Technicolor, Inc., Pantry Pride and Revlon. Using the Pantry Pride subsidiary of his holding company, MacAndrews & Forbes Holdings, Perelman's overtures were rebuffed. Repeatedly rejected by the company's board and management, Perelman continued to press forward with a hostile takeover, raising his offer from an initial bid of $47.50 per share until it reached $53.00 per share. After Revlon received a higher offer from a white knight, private equity firm Forstmann Little & Company, Perelman's Pantry Pride finally was able to make a successful bid for Revlon, valuing the company at $2.7 billion. The buyout would prove troubling, burdened by a heavy debt load. Under Perelman's control, Revlon sold 4 divisions: two were sold for $1 billion, its vision care division was sold for $574 million, and its National Health Laboratories division was spun out to the public market in 1988. Revlon also made acquisitions including Max Factor in 1987 and Betrix in 1989, later selling them to Procter & Gamble in 1991. Perelman exited the bulk of his holdings in Revlon through an IPO in 1996 and subsequent sales of stock. As of December 31, 2007, Perelman still retains a minority ownership interest in Revlon. The Revlon takeover, because of its well-known brand, was profiled widely by the media and brought new attention to the emerging boom in leveraged buyout activity. Litigation associated with the takeover has also become standard reading for introductory business organization classes in most law schools, introducing what have come to be known as \"Revlon Duties\" for boards of companies that are up for auction.\n\nIn the late 1980s several famous corporate raiders suffered from bad investments financed by large amounts of leverage, ultimately losing money for their investors. Additionally, with the fall of Michael Milken and the subsequent collapse of Drexel Burnham Lambert, the credit lines for these investors dried up. By the end of the decade, management of many large publicly traded corporations reacted negatively to the threat of potential hostile takeover or corporate raid and pursued drastic defensive measures including poison pills, golden parachutes and increasing debt levels on the company's balance sheet. Finally, in the 1990s the overall price of the American stock market increased, which reduced the number of situations in which a company's share price was low with respect to the assets that it controlled.\n\nBy the end of the 1990s, the corporate raider moniker was used less frequently as private equity firms pursued different tactics than their predecessors. Additionally, with revisionist history, in later years many of the corporate raiders would be re-characterized as \"activist shareholders\", such as Carl Icahn during his 2008 profile on CBS's \"60 Minutes\".\n\nAlthough private equity rarely received a thorough treatment in popular culture, several films did feature stereotypical \"corporate raiders\" prominently. Among the most notable examples of private equity featured in motion pictures included:\n"}
{"id": "4166591", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4166591", "title": "Dashboard (business)", "text": "Dashboard (business)\n\nDashboards often provide at-a-glance views of key performance indicators (KPIs) relevant to a particular objective or business process. In the other, \"dashboard\" has another name for \"progress report\" or \"report.\"\n\nThe \"dashboard\" is often displayed on a web page which is linked to a database that allows the report to be constantly updated. For example, a manufacturing dashboard may show numbers related to productivity such as number of parts manufactured, or number of failed quality inspections per hour. Similarly, a human resources dashboard may show numbers related to staff recruitment, retention and composition, for example number of open positions, or average days or cost per recruitment.\n\nThe term dashboard originates from the automobile dashboard where drivers monitor the major functions at a glance via the instrument cluster.\n\nDigital dashboards allow managers to monitor the contribution of the various departments in their organization. To gauge exactly how well an organization is performing overall, digital dashboards allow you to capture and report specific data points from each department within the organization, thus providing a \"snapshot\" of performance.\n\nBenefits of using digital dashboards include:\n\nDashboards can be broken down according to role and are either strategic, analytical, operational, or informational. Strategic dashboards support managers at any level in an organization, and provide the quick overview that decision makers need to monitor the health and opportunities of the business. Dashboards of this type focus on high level measures of performance, and forecasts. Strategic dashboards benefit from static snapshots of data (daily, weekly, monthly, and quarterly) that are not constantly changing from one moment to the next. Dashboards for analytical purposes often include more context, comparisons, and history, along with subtler performance evaluators. Analytical dashboards typically support interactions with the data, such as drilling down into the underlying details. Dashboards for monitoring operations are often designed differently from those that support strategic decision making or data analysis and often require monitoring of activities and events that are constantly changing and might require attention and response at a moment's notice.\n\nDigital dashboards may be laid out to track the flows inherent in the business processes that they monitor. Graphically, users may see the high-level processes and then drill down into low level data. This level of detail is often buried deep within the corporate enterprise and otherwise unavailable to the senior executives.\n\nThree main types of digital dashboard dominate the market today: stand alone software applications, web-browser based applications, and desktop applications also known as desktop widgets. The last are driven by a widget engine.\n\nSpecialized dashboards may track all corporate functions. Examples include human resources, recruiting, sales, operations, security, information technology, project management, customer relationship management and many more departmental dashboards. For a smaller organization like a startup a compact startup scorecard dashboard tracks important activities across lot of domains ranging from social media to sales.\n\nDigital dashboard projects involve business units as the driver and the information technology department as the enabler. The success of digital dashboard projects often depends on the metrics that were chosen for monitoring. Key performance indicators, balanced scorecards, and sales performance figures are some of the content appropriate on business dashboards.\n\nBalanced Scoreboards and Dashboards have been linked together as if they were interchangeable. However, although both visually display critical information, the difference is in the format: Scoreboards can open the quality of an operation while dashboards provide calculated direction. \nA balanced scoreboard has what they called a \"prescriptive\" format. It should always contain these components (Active Strategy)...\nEach of these sections ensures that a Balanced Scorecard is essentially connected to the businesses critical strategic needs.\n\nThe design of a dashboard is more loosely defined. Dashboards are usually a series of graphics, charts, gauges and other visual indicators that can be monitored and interpreted. Even when there is a strategic link, on a dashboard, it may not be noticed as such since objectives are not normally present on dashboards. However, dashboards can be customized to link their graphs and charts to strategic objectives.\n\nDigital dashboard technology is available \"out-of-the-box\" from many software providers. Some companies however continue to do in-house development and maintenance of dashboard applications. For example, GE Aviation has developed a proprietary software/portal called \"Digital Cockpit\" to monitor the trends in aircraft spare parts business.\n\nGood dashboard design practices take into account and address the following:\n\n\nA good information design will clearly communicate key information to users and makes supporting information easily accessible.\n\nThere are a few key elements to a good dashboard:.\n\nThe idea of digital dashboards followed the study of decision support systems in the 1970s. Early predecessors of the modern business dashboard were first developed in the 1980s in the form of Executive Information Systems (EISs). Due to problems primarily with data refreshing and handling, it was soon realized that the approach wasn’t practical as information was often incomplete, unreliable, and spread across too many disparate sources. Thus, EISs hibernated until the 1990s when the information age quickened pace and data warehousing, and online analytical processing (OLAP) allowed dashboards to function adequately. Despite the availability of enabling technologies, the dashboard use didn't become popular until later in that decade, with the rise of key performance indicators (KPIs), and the introduction of Robert S. Kaplan and David P. Norton's Balanced Scorecard. In the late 1990s, Microsoft promoted a concept known as the Digital Nervous System and \"digital dashboards\" were described as being one leg of that concept. Today, the use of dashboards forms an important part of Business Performance Management (BPM).\n\n"}
{"id": "993088", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=993088", "title": "Doctor of Business Administration", "text": "Doctor of Business Administration\n\nThe Doctor of Business Administration (commonly abbreviated as DBA, DrBA, or BusD and most recently ) is a research doctorate awarded on the basis of advanced study and research in the field of business administration. The D.B.A. is a terminal degree in business administration. Along with the Ph.D., it represents the highest academic qualification in business administration. Successful completion of a D.B.A. or Ph.D. in business administration is required to gain employment as a full-time, tenure-track university professor or postdoctoral researcher in the field. As with other earned research doctorates, individuals with the degree are awarded the academic title doctor, which is often represented via the English honorific \"Dr.\" or the post-nominal letters \"DBA\",or \"Ph.D.\".\n\nD.B.A. candidates submit a significant project, typically referred to as a thesis or dissertation, consisting of a body of original academic research that is in principle worthy of publication in a peer-reviewed journal. Candidates must defend this work before a panel of expert examiners called a thesis, dissertation, or doctoral committee.\n\nDoctor of Business Administration programs have a dual purpose: contribute to business theory and further develop the professional practice (e.g. contribute to professional knowledge in business). Universities generally require candidates to have significant experience in business, particularly in roles with leadership or other strategic responsibilities. D.B.A. candidates specialize in areas such as management science, information technology management, organizational behaviour, economics, finance and the like. As with other doctorate programs, curricula may be offered on a full-time or part-time basis. According to the European higher education standards set by the Bologna Process, the normal duration of doctorate programs like the D.B.A. and Ph.D is 4 years of full-time study.\n\nThe responsibility for the structure of doctoral programs resides within the graduate research committees or their equivalent within the university. As such, D.B.A programs have a specific set of university regulations and are subject to quality approval processes. Regulations include references to protocols for treating ethical issues in research. These regulations are widely used in Australian Universities. For instance, a D.B.A student cannot embark on the research phase before passing all his or her coursework. Furthermore, upon passing the proposal stage, he or she must clear ethics-related issues with an Ethics Committee. The D.B.A candidate must go through numerous internal moderations of the dissertation before submitting to external examinations (usually at least two). Successful candidates usually revise their dissertations numerous times before final approval is granted from the doctoral committee.\n\nThe Doctor of Business Administration and the Ph.D in Business Administration are equivalent degrees. Both doctorates are research doctorates representing the highest academic qualification in business in the United States. As such, both D.B.A. and Ph.D programs require students to develop original research leading to a dissertation defense. Furthermore, both doctorates enable holders to become faculty members at academic institutions. The D.B.A. and Ph.D in Business Administration are terminal degrees, allowing the recipient to obtain a tenure-track position.\n\nIn some cases, as in that of Harvard University, the distinction is solely administrative (Harvard Business School is not authorized to issue Ph.Ds; only the Faculty of Arts and Sciences may do so). In other cases,the distinction is one of orientation and intended outcomes. The Ph.D is highly focused on developing theoretical knowledge, while the D.B.A. emphasizes applied research. Upon completion, graduates of Ph.D programs generally migrate to full-time faculty positions in academia, while those of D.B.A. programs re-emerge in industry as applied researchers or executives. If working full-time in industry, graduates of D.B.A. and Ph.D programs often become adjunct professors in top undergraduate and graduate degree programs.\n\nD.B.A. programs are offered worldwide. The majority, however, are offered in Europe (42 percent), followed by North America (28 percent) and the Asia-Pacific region (22 percent). 6 percent of the programs are offered in Africa and 2 percent in Latin America and the Caribbean. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "29675473", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29675473", "title": "Doorstep (company)", "text": "Doorstep (company)\n\nDoorstep is a Norwegian company.\n\nIt was established in 2000, and was meant to develop a web portal for online trade. It was a cooperation between telecommunications company Telenor and Den norske Bank. Chairman was Petter Jansen, and among the board members were Gunn Wærsted, Jon Fredrik Baksaas and Ingvild Myhre. The goal was to create the largest market place of its kind in Norway. However the chief executive officer Knut Oppegaard quit in March 2001 and was replaced by Ann-Kristin Hageløkken. The portal had not yet been opened. The plans were then significantly altered in April 2001, as the plans for online trading were cut. It shared its fate with several dot-com companies, although the company would use the .no top-level domain instead of .com.\n\nThe company still exists, with the purpose of \"business development\". Jon Fredrik Baksaas is a member of the board, which is now chaired by Rune Bjerke.\n"}
{"id": "37322718", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37322718", "title": "Fadi Abboud", "text": "Fadi Abboud\n\nFadi or Fady Elias Abi Abboud (Arabic: فادي عبود; born 21 March 1955) is a Lebanese businessman, politician and minister of tourism.\n\nAbboud was born into a Maronite Christian family in Sakiyat Al Misk on 21 March 1955. He graduated from the International School of Choueifat and later studied economics at the University of Westminister in London.\n\nAbboud began his career as the chairman of General Packaging Industries in 1982. He was twice appointed the president of the Association of Lebanese Industrialists. He was also a member of the American Lebanese Chamber of Commerce and the International Chamber of Commerce. \n\nHe was appointed minister of tourism in the Saad Hariri's cabinet in November 2009. He was reappointed to the same post in the Najib Mikati's cabinet in June 2011. Abboud's term ended on 15 February 2014 and Michel Pharoun was appointed tourism minister.\n\nAbboud is close to the Syrian Socialist Nationalist Party and the Free Patriotic Movement. \n\nAbboud married Sara Lilianna Saban in 1986. They have two children.\n"}
{"id": "508257", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=508257", "title": "Food distribution", "text": "Food distribution\n\nFood distribution is a process in which a general population is supplied with food. The Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) considers food distribution as a subset of the food system. The process and methodology behind food distribution varies by location. Food distribution has been a defining characteristic of human behavior in all societies, and recordings of food distribution date back for thousands of years.\n\nOne clear and defined documentation of historical food distribution comes from the Roman Republic and Empire. Many Roman rulers and emperors sought to determine the best method of distributing food throughout the Mediterranean, and as the demands of the Roman people changed in time, so too did their leaders’ plans. In the few centuries after the death of Christ, the \"annona\" became a prominent aspect in Roman food distribution. As the Empire expanded and the accessibility to certain foods changed, the demand for grain and wine drastically increased, and became a defining aspect of Roman food culture.\n\nSocieties prominent after the fall of the Romans continued to deal with the ever-present dilemma of food distribution. The distribution systems of the United States and Latin America have developed in unique ways, and faced different problems in the past century. The United States' food distribution system is vast in size and strength, and is dominated by corporations and industry. Current methods of food distribution in the US rely on the country's advanced network of infrastructure and transportation. In less developed parts of the world like Latin America, food distribution differs from the US.\n\nThere are a multitude of risk factors that can affect food distribution. War, economic failure, political problems, and weather conditions all play a role in determining the efficiency of any food system. Two recent examples of war and economic failure impacting food distribution includes the decline of food distribution in Japan during World War II and food recession in Sub-Saharan Africa during the late 1970s and early 1980s. In both cases, food distribution was hindered and the population in these areas consequently suffered.\n\nSpecial organizations exist today to prevent any total collapses in food distribution, assist in developing food distribution and food systems in underdeveloped areas, and respond to food distribution crises. The Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) plays a key role in facilitating the growth of food distribution systems all over the world. A mixture of federal, non-profit, and volunteer organizations function in the United States to safeguard the well-being of the US food distribution system. The American Red Cross is one key example of a volunteer organization is the US that has an international presence.\n\nThe traditional Roman diet consisted of grain, fruits, olive oil, meat and wine. Of all these, grain was extremely important to the Roman people. During Rome's height, it is estimated that the city itself needed 150,000 tons of grain and millions of liters of water and wine every year to survive. It was traditionally the responsibility of the Roman government to guarantee that there was enough food for distribution among the people. In times of shortages, bad harvests, or interference by pirates, the government made sure to fulfill its obligation to food distribution. Officials would sometimes buy food themselves and then sell it back to the people at little to no cost. When Rome eventually established its Empire, foreign lands would send taxes in grain to Rome, which helped decrease the chance of a food distribution crisis.\n\nThe first indication of a collective, organized food distribution system within the Roman Republic comes from the \"annona\". Originally meaning \"yearly return\", the \"annona\" became the administrative term for governmental bread and grain distribution. Over time, \"annona\" came to represent the distribution of all pertinent foods in the Roman diet. The \"annona\" was originally organized between 500 and 50 BCE, and gained increasing influence in the centuries to come. The practice of specifically distributing grain to the plebeian class, known as \"frumentationes\", gained prominence around 120 BCE and supplemented the efforts of the \"annona\" to feed the Roman people. Emperor Augustus officially changed the \"annona\" system between 8 and 14 CE. He established the position of \"praefectus annonae\", Prefect of the Annona. Up to this point in time, the \"annona\" was handled by local government officials called aediles. Augustus’ Prefect of the \"Annona\" oversaw all transportation, weighing, inspection, and storing of state foods.\n\nThe physical distribution of foods throughout the Roman Empire varied by location and type of food. Some foods were shipped by boat and then distributed once they reached port. Others, specifically meat, were transported by land and brought into urban areas. Special regulations were put in place for the distribution of olive oil, as the Empire made contracts with olive oil producers all over the Mediterranean. Free daily distributions of olive oil were enacted by Emperor Severus during his reign from 192 to 211 CE. His distribution policy lasted for at least a few centuries, but scholars are unsure if the policy continued thereafter. Wine was not as freely distributed as olive oil, but was sold for a very low price starting around 300 CE.\n\nThe United States' food distribution system has experienced major changes in the past hundred years. Food distribution primarily relied on small, local farms in the 1940s, but quickly grew to become a large business in the 1960s. Three economic advances that allowed for the growth in food distribution between 1910 and 1960 were the establishment of chain stores, retail cooperatives, and supermarkets.\n\nChain stores did not become popular in the United States until the end of World War I. It was reported in 1929 that chain stores accounted for 39% of all grocery sales in the United States. Chain stores' success is related to their ability to undersell smaller distributors. An anti-chain movement arose in response to the success of the chain stores during the Great Depression, but caused little detriment to the success and profitability of the chains.\n\nAnother response to the success of the chain stores was the development of retail cooperatives. These organizations were founded by groups of individual food distributors who saw the benefits of using chain-style pricing. Retail cooperatives accounted for 7% to 8% of the food market in 1930, and an increase in their popularity with independent food distributors rose retail cooperative's market share to 13% by 1958.\n\nThe third and final change to US food distribution in the first half of the 20th century involved the establishment of supermarkets. The Ford Motor Company performed the first experiment regarding the profitability of large-scale supermarkets after the end of World War I. Supermarkets officially began gaining prominence in the 1930s and steadily continued their growth into the post-WWII era.\n\nModern food distribution in the United States is a result of continued growth since the 1960s. In an increasingly connected world, food distribution efforts in the US reach from coast to coast. A network of infrastructure, warehouses, factories, and commercial retailers comprise the bulk of US food distribution. It is estimated that food served in the United States may travel close to 1,500 miles between growers and consumers. While many products, specifically meat and grain, are distributed in different fashions, there are common trends to the distribution of most modern foods. An increase in the use of technology for farming has transformed the small local farm of the 1940s in to large production facilities. Several federal agencies, such as the US Department of Agriculture and the Food and Drug Administration, manage and sustain the productivity of the US food distribution system.\n\nFood distribution in Latin America is mainly dominated by large distributors and chains. Efforts have been made to compete with the industrialization of the food distribution system through the establishment of four types of organizations: consumer purchasing organizations, consumer cooperatives, voluntary chains, and retailer purchasing associations. Consumer purchasing organizations are groups of families who buy food together. The benefits of joining one of these organizations are the reduced cost and improved variety in diet that comes from purchasing food with other families. Consumer cooperatives differ from consumer purchasing organizations in that they are constituted by groups of individuals who work together to secure high quality food for low prices. The cooperatives are analogous to a food union that actively works to secure the rights of its consumers. Voluntary chains are organizations of privately owned retailers and food wholesalers who operate as one economic body. These groups form contracts to work under, but are economically independent of one another. Retailer purchasing organizations are groups of retailers who purchase products as though they were a single buyer. Members within these organizations are all involved in the purchasing of goods, but do not form contracts.\n\nProminent risk factors that can affect the food distribution within a society include war, economic failure, political instability, and weather conditions. Each of these factors affects individual groups of people differently, but all share the common attribute of being detrimental to local food distribution and food systems. Two prominent examples of risk factors' negative effect on a society's food distribution system are the situation in Japan during World War II and Africa during the late 1970s and early 1980s.\n\nJapanese food distribution drastically decreased from the effects of World War Two and the country's economic shortcomings. The need for food during the 1920s and 1930s rose drastically as Japan's population and average lifestyle increased. Japan was importing large amounts of rice, sugar, soybeans, and wheat from its colonies by 1935, and had a dependence on colonial possessions to distribute food to her people. 95% of Japanese rice between 1936 and 1938, just a few years before major conflict arose with the United States, was imported from its colonies in Korea and Formosa. Only 2% of Japan's rice came from foreign countries.\n\nAs war engulfed Japan after 1941, food distribution efforts began to suffer. Japan lost a tremendous amount of cargo ships and was surrounded by an effective US blockade for most of the war. Imports were down, which cut off Japan from its primary source of food. Rationing programs, ran by Japan's Central Foodstuff Corporation and Local Foodstuff Corporations, were an attempt to distribute food equally among the general population. Changes in tax collection and price control were also created to feed Japan, but these measures ultimately did not supply the Japanese people with enough food for survival. The average ration allowance consisted of a flour mixture which was often unhealthy and barely edible. Normal consumers age 16 to 60 received an average 330 g of ration per day in May 1943, and the situation only became more desperate as the war progressed. Rationing programs were reduced even further in July 1945, just before the war's end.\n\nIn Sub-Sharan Africa, the food distribution crisis of the 1970s and 1980s was a result of a multitude of food distribution risk factors including political problems, economic failures, and weather conditions. The heart of the political problems and economic failures affecting food distribution included poor agricultural pricing and a lack of state involvement with rural development. Some of the political problems can be traced back to the colonial period. Colonial policy supported the exportation of goods, even if it meant decreasing the amount of food for the local economy. Components of these colonial policies continued to be used after African countries gained their freedom from European nations. The usage of these failed policies caused malignant consequences on the economic situation of the peasant class, including the exploitation of peasant agriculture and in removal of peasants from their land. The weather and environmental issues regarding the Sub-Saharan African food distribution crisis also have roots in failed colonial policy. Labor migration cycles used during colonial times were ecologically damaging to the local environment and failed to create new areas for growing crops. As a result, desertification and a loss of soil fertility hurt the local agricultural sector, which then in turn negatively affected food distribution.\n\nOne of the largest organizations working to avoiding food distribution crises on the global stage in the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO). The FAO is a branch of the United Nations, and actively works to improve food distribution in countries that need support\n\nSeveral different organizations exist to mitigate and respond to food distribution crises in the United States. Prominent contributors to large-scale food distribution effort in the US include the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), United States Department of Agriculture (USDA), and Salvation Army. FEMA and the USDA work together during food distribution crises to coordinate the procurement and transportation of nonperishable food, water, and other resources to afflicted areas. The Salvation Army often receives federal supplies from FEMA and the USDA, and then works on the local level to distribute necessary goods. All food given to civilians during a crisis is typically distributed at mass emergency feeding stations.\n\nGroups like FEMA, the USDA, and the Salvation Army could not operate without help from individuals and small nonprofit groups. Prominent contributors to local food disaster efforts include groups like Emergency Communities and the American Rainbow Rapid Response (ARRR). These organizations typically focus on supplying rural and lower income areas that do not receive priority from large food distribution groups during a crisis.\n\nAnother group that works out of the United States is the American Red Cross. The American Red Cross is part of the International Red Cross, and 95% of all workers within the American Red Cross are volunteers. In the case of all crises, whether food related or not, the American Red Cross in engaged in relieving disaster victims. The Red Cross coordinates with local communities to provide essentials such as food, water, and hot meals for those in need during a crisis.\n\n"}
{"id": "29897736", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29897736", "title": "Gayle Conelly Manchin", "text": "Gayle Conelly Manchin\n\nGayle Conelly Manchin (born June 20, 1947) is an American educator, politician, former First Lady of West Virginia from 2005 to 2010, and a former member of the West Virginia Board of Education from 2007-2015, having served for 2 years as the board's President. Manchin most recently served as the West Virginia Secretary of Education and the Arts from 2017 until her termination in March 2018. She is the wife of former Governor and current U.S. Senator Joe Manchin of West Virginia.\n\nGayle Manchin was raised in Beckley, West Virginia and graduated from Woodrow Wilson High School. She received both her Bachelor of Arts in language arts and education, and a Master of Arts in reading (now known as the masters in literacy education), from West Virginia University. In 1999, she received a second master's degree in educational technology leadership from Salem International University.\n\nIn 1967, Gayle Conelly married Manchin, with whom she had three children, Heather, Joseph IV, and Brooke, and settled in Fairmont, West Virginia.\n\nManchin is a career educator. She has worked as a teacher in the Marion County Public School district and a faculty member at Fairmont State University, where she established the university's inaugural Community Service Learning Program.\n\nShe has also served as Director of the AmeriCorps Promise Fellow Program in West Virginia Additionally, Machin worked for the Office of Secretary of Education and the Arts, where she established the West Virginia Partnerships to Assure Student Success initiative (WV PASS).\n\nGayle Manchin held the position of First Lady of West Virginia from 2005 until 2010 during her husband's term as the state's governor. During her tenure as First Lady, Manchin simultaneously served as the chairperson of the West Virginia Citizen’s Council on Children and Families and Governor’s Healthy Lifestyles Coalition, co-chair of the Governor’s 21st Century Jobs Cabinet and the Intellectual Infrastructure of Vision Shared, and a member of the West Virginia Commission for National and Community Service.\n\nIn 2007, Manchin was appointed to the West Virginia Board of Education from 2007 to 2015. She served two terms as the Board of Education's vice president. On July 10, 2013, Manchin was elected President of the West Virginia Board of Education for a two-year term.\n\nIn 2016, Manchin was the subject of some controversy when \"USA Today\", a national newspaper, published an article noting that Manchin, upon becoming Board of Education president in 2012, spearheaded a campaign for states to require schools to purchase EpiPens and other medical supplies. Eleven states created laws to require schools to stock EpiPens, made by Mylan pharmaceuticals, leading to a \"near monopoly\" of Mylan's epinephrine autoinjector in the school health sector. The article noted the potential for a conflict of interest, as Mylin's CEO, Heather Bresch, is Manchin's daughter.\n\nIncoming Governor of West Virginia Jim Justice appointed Manchin to his cabinet as the state's Secretary of Education and the Arts on January 13, 2017. Manchin succeeded outgoing Secretary of Education Kay Goodwin, who was retiring from the office. The Secretary for Education and the Arts oversees a collection of six state agencies, including West Virginia Public Broadcasting, the West Virginia Library Commission, the Division of Culture and History, Volunteer West Virginia, the state Center for Professional Development, and the Division of Rehabilitation Services.\n\nAfter the passage of HB 4006, a bill that would dissolve the West Virginia Department of Education and the Arts, in the West Virginia Legislature, Manchin called on Justice to veto the legislation. Manchin also offered to resign and \"remove any political cloud,\" though days later, she was removed from office by Justice, leaving the office of Department Secretary vacant.\n\n"}
{"id": "37103670", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37103670", "title": "Gérard Dubois", "text": "Gérard Dubois\n\nGérard Dubois is a Swiss born chef and businessman, focusing on patisseries, boulangeries and confiseries. In 1991, Dubois opened the first La Rose Noire patisserie in Pacific Place, Admiralty, Hong Kong.\n\nLa Rose Noire has produced several publications — in 2003, 2006 and 2011. The latest edition \"Crafted Passion\" (2011) was awarded 'Best Dessert Book in the World,' from the Gourmand Awards in Paris. He has also been a regular panel judge at renowned international competitions.\n\nHis latest venture Passion by Gerard Dubois is a patisserie, boulangerie and confiserie in Wan Chai, Hong Kong.\n\n"}
{"id": "244479", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=244479", "title": "Imperial examination", "text": "Imperial examination\n\nChinese imperial examinations were a civil service examination system in Imperial China to select candidates for the state bureaucracy. Imperial exams existed as early as the Han dynasty, however they were only utilized as a means of recruitment for government office in the mid-Tang dynasty, and remained so until its abolition in 1905. The exams were based on knowledge of the classics and literary style. The Confucian examination syllabus has been compared to the humanist education central to contemporary European government service.\n\nThe increased reliance on the exam system was partially responsible for China's shift away from a military aristocracy to a gentry class of scholar-bureaucrats. Starting with the Song dynasty, the system was regularized and developed into a roughly three-tiered ladder from local to provincial to court exams. The content was narrowed and fixed on texts of Neo-Confucian orthodoxy. By the Ming dynasty, the highest degree, the \"jinshi\" (), became essential for highest office. On the other hand, the initial degree, the \"shengyuan\" (生員), became vastly oversupplied, resulting in holders who could not hope for office, yet were still granted social privilege. \n\nThe Chinese examination system spread to neighboring Asian countries, such as Vietnam, Korea, Japan (though briefly) and Ryūkyū. The Chinese examination system was introduced to the Western world in the reports of European missionaries and diplomats and likely had an influencing the British East India Company's introduction of similar methods to select prospective employees. Following the initial success in that company, the British government adopted a similar testing system for screening civil servants in 1855. Other European nations, such as France and Germany, followed suit. Modeled after these previous adaptations, the United States established its own testing program for certain government jobs after 1883.\n\nCritics charged that the examination system stifled creativity and created officials who dared not defy authority, yet the system also continued to promote cultural unity. Wealthy families, especially from the merchant class, could opt into the system by educating their sons or purchasing degrees. In the 19th century, critics blamed the imperial system, and in the process its examinations, for China's lack of technical knowledge and its defeat by foreign powers.\n\nThe imperial examination system in its classical manifestation is historically attested to have been established in 605, during the Sui dynasty, when the emperor could call for tests to be administered. In the following Tang dynasty, tests were used on a small scale until the examination system was extensively expanded during the reign of Wu Zetian: the impact of Wu's use of the testing system is still a matter for scholarly debate. However most government posts were still recruited through personal recommendation and connections to the court. It was not until the Song dynasty that most officials were recruited through examination. The Song emperors expanded both examinations and the government school system so that the number of those who passed the exams expanded to four to five times that of the Tang. Thus the system played a key role in the selection of the scholar-officials, who formed the elite members of society. During the Ming and Qing dynasties, the system contributed to the narrowness of intellectual life and the autocratic power of the emperor. The system continued with some modifications until its 1905 abolition under the Qing dynasty. Other brief interruptions to the system occurred, such as at the beginning of the Yuan dynasty in the 13th century. The modern examination system for selecting civil servants also indirectly evolved from the imperial one.\n\nThe operations of the examination system were part of the imperial record keeping system, and the date of receiving the \"jinshi\" degree is often a key biographical datum: sometimes the date of achieving \"jinshi\" is the only firm date known for even some of the most historically prominent persons in Chinese history. The regular higher level degree examination cycle was nominally decreed in 1067 to be 3 years. In practice both before and after this, the examinations were irregularly implemented for significant periods of time: thus, the calculated statistical averages for the number of degrees conferred annually should be understood in this context. The \"jinshi\" tests were not a yearly event and should not be considered so; the annual average figures are a necessary artifact of quantitative analysis.\n\nCandidates for offices recommended by the prefect of prefecture were examined by the minister of ceremony and then presented to the emperor. Some candidates for clerical positions would be given a test determine whether they could memorize nine thousand Chinese characters. The imperial examinations during the Han dynasty did not offer a formal entry into government posts. Recruitment and appointment in the Han dynasty was primarily through recommendations by aristocrats and local officials. Recommended individuals were also primarily aristocrats. In theory, recommendations were based on a combination of reputation and ability but it's not certain how well this worked in practice. Oral examinations on policy issues were sometimes conducted personally by the emperor himself during Western Han times. \n\nIn 165 BC Emperor Wen of Han introduced recruitment to the civil service through examinations, however these did not heavily emphasize Confucian material. Previously, potential officials never sat for any sort of academic examinations.\n\nEmperor Wu of Han's early reign saw the creation of a series of posts for academicians in 136 BC. Ardently promoted by Dong Zhongshu, the Taixue and Imperial examination came into existence by recommendation of Gongsun Hong, chancellor under Wu. Officials would select candidates to take part in an examination of the Confucian classics, from which Emperor Wu would select officials to serve by his side. Gongsun intended for the Taixue's graduates to become imperial officials but they usually only started off as clerks and attendants, and mastery of only one canonical text was required upon its founding, changing to all five in the Eastern Han. Starting with only 50 students, Emperor Zhao expanded it to 100, Emperor Xuan to 200, and Emperor Yuan to 1000.\n\nWhile the examinations expanded under the Han, the number of graduates who went on to hold office were few. The examinations did not offer a formal route to commissioned office and the primary path to office remained through recommendations. Though connections and recommendations remained more meaningful than the exam, the initiation of the examination system by Emperor Wu had a cultural significance, as the state determined the most important examination material were Confucian. During the Han dynasty, these examinations were primarily used for the purpose of classifying candidates who had been specifically recommended. Even during the Tang dynasty the quantity of placements into government service through the examination system only averaged about nine persons per year, with the known maximum being less than 25 in any given year.\n\nBeginning in the Three Kingdoms period (with the nine-rank system in the Kingdom of Wei), imperial officials were responsible for assessing the quality of the talents recommended by the local elites. This system continued until it was abolished in 587 by Emperor Wen of Sui who created a system wherein every prefecture would supply three scholars a year. In AD 605 Emperor Yang of Sui established a new category of recommended candidates for the mandarinate (进士科). For the first time, an examination system was explicitly instituted for a category of local talents. However, the Sui dynasty was short-lived, and the system did not reach its mature development until afterwards.\n\nOver the course of the Tang dynasty (唐朝) and during the Zhou dynasty of the Wu Zetian interregnum, the examination system developed into a more comprehensive system, developing beyond the basic Sui process of qualifying candidates based on questions on policy matters and then followed by an interview. Oral interviews as part of the examination and selection system were theoretically supposed to be an unbiased process, but in practice favored candidates from elite clans based in the capitals of Chang'an and Luoyang (speakers of solely non-elite dialects could not succeed).\n\nThe civil-service examination was institutionalized, where six categories were created. Eventually these became just one \"jinshi\" degree. Although the number of candidates were sometimes as high as 2,000 a year, only 1 to 2 percent passed the test. At this point the exam became administered by the Ministry of Rites.\n\nA pivotal point in the development of imperial examinations arose with the rise of Wu Zetian. Up until that point, the rulers of the Tang dynasty were all male members of the Li family (李氏). Wu Zetian was exceptional: a woman not of the Li family, she came to occupy the seat of the emperor in an official manner in the year of 690, and even beforehand she had already begun to stretch her power within the imperial courts behind the scenes. Reform of the imperial examinations to include a new class of elite bureaucrats derived from humbler origins became a keystone of Wu's gamble to retain power.\n\nIn 655, Wu Zetian graduated 44 candidates with the \"jìnshì\" degree (進士), and during one 7-year period the annual average of exam takers graduated with a \"jinshi\" degree was greater than 58 persons per year. Wu lavished favors on the newly graduated \"jinshi\" degree-holders, increasing the prestige associated with this path of attaining a government career, and clearly began a process of opening up opportunities to success for a wider population pool, including inhabitants of China's less prestigious southeast area. Most of the Li family supporters were located to the northwest, particularly around the capital city of Chang'an. Wu's progressive accumulation of political power through enhancement of the examination system involved attaining the allegiance of previously under-represented regions, alleviating frustrations of the literati, and encouraging education in various locales so even people in the remote corners of the empire would work on their studies in order to pass the imperial exams, and thus developed a nucleus of elite bureaucrats useful from the perspective of control by the central government.\n\nIn 681, a written test on knowledge of the Confucian classics was introduced, meaning that candidates were required to memorize these works and fill in the blanks on the test.\n\nIn 693, Wu Zetian's government further expanded the civil service examination system, part of a policy to reform society and to consolidate power for her self-proclaimed \"Zhou dynasty\". Examples of officials whom she recruited through her reformed examination system include Zhang Yue, Li Jiao, and Shen Quanqi. She introduced major changes in regard to the Tang system, increasing the pool of candidates permitted to take the test by allowing commoners and gentry previously disqualified by their non-elite backgrounds to attempt the tests. Successful candidates then became an elite nucleus of bureaucrats within her government.\n\nSometime between 730 and 740, after the Tang restoration, a section requiring the composition of original poetry (including both \"shi\" and \"fu\") was added to the tests, with rather specific set requirements: this was for the \"jinshi\" degree, as well as certain other tests. The less-esteemed examinations tested for skills such as mathematics, law, and calligraphy. The success rate on these tests of knowledge on the classics was between 10 and 20 percent, but for the thousand or more candidates going for a \"jinshi\" degree each year in which it was offered, the success rate for the examinees was only between 1 and 2 percent: a total of 6504 \"jinshi\" were created during course of the Tang dynasty (an average of only about 23 \"jinshi\" awarded per year).\n\nDuring the early years of the Tang restoration, the following emperors expanded on Wu's policies since they found them politically useful, and the annual averages of degrees conferred continued to rise; however with the upheavals which later developed and the disintegration of the Tang empire into the \"Five Dynasties and Ten Kingdoms period\", the examination system gave ground to other traditional routes to government positions and favoritism in grading reduced the opportunities of those taking the tests who lacked political patronage. Ironically this period of fragmentation resulted in the utter destruction of old networks established by elite families that had ruled China throughout its various dynasties since its very conception. With the disappearance of the old aristocracy, Wu's system of bureaucrat recruitment once more became the dominant model in China, and eventually coalesced into the class of nonhereditary elites who would become known to the West as \"mandarins,\" in reference to Mandarin, the dialect of Chinese employed in the imperial court.\n\nIn the Song dynasty (960–1279) more than a hundred higher level examinations were held. Officials selected through the exams became dominant in the bureaucracy. The number of \"jinshi\" degrees also increased. Theoretically, the examinations were open to adult (at least in terms of literacy) Chinese males, with some restrictions. This included even individuals from the occupied northern territories. Many individuals moved from a low social status to political prominence through success in imperial examination. Examples include Wang Anshi, who proposed reforms to make the exams more practical, and Zhu Xi, whose interpretations of the Four Classics became the orthodox Neo-Confucianism which dominated later dynasties. Two other prominent successful entries into politics through the examination system were Su Shi and his brother Su Zhe: both of whom became political opponents of Wang Anshi. Indeed, one of the major objectives of the examination system was to promote diversity of viewpoints and to avoid over-filling of offices with individuals of particular political or partisan alignment, as might occur with alternative, more biased methods, which could allow for active recruitment. Yet the process of studying for the examination tended to be time-consuming and costly, requiring time to spare and tutors. Most of the candidates came from the numerically small but relatively wealthy land-owning scholar-official class.\n\nSince 937, by the decision of the Taizu Emperor of Song, the palace examination was supervised by the emperor himself. In 992, the practice of anonymous submission of papers during the palace examination was introduced; it was spread to the departmental examinations in 1007, and to the prefectural level in 1032. The practice of recopying the papers in order not to allow biases by revealing the candidate by his calligraphy was introduced at the capital and departmental level in 1105, and in the prefectures in 1037. Statistics indicate that the Song imperial government degree-awards eventually more than doubled the highest annual averages of those awarded during the Tang dynasty, with 200 or more per year on average being common, and at times reaching a per annum figure of almost 240.\n\nVarious reforms or attempts to reform the examination system were made during the Song dynasty, including by Fan Zhongyan and those by Wang Anshi. Fan's memorial to the throne actually initiated a process which lead to major educational reform through the establishment of a comprehensive public school system.\n\nGovernmental examinations ended with the defeat of the Song in 1279 by a disintegrating Mongol empire. After a period of turmoil, the part of the Mongol empire that was led by Kublai Khan established itself in China as the Yuan dynasty. One of Kublai's main advisers in this event was Liu Bingzhong, who wrote a memorial, among other things, recommending restoration of the examination system: however, this was not done. Kublai ended the imperial examination system, as he believed that Confucian learning was not needed for government jobs. Also, Kublai was opposed to such a commitment to the Chinese language and to the Chinese scholars who were so adept, together with the accompanying ideology: he wished to appoint his own people without relying on an apparatus inherited from a newly conquered and sometimes rebellious country. The discontinuation of the exams had the affect of reducing the prestige of traditional learning, reducing the motivation for doing so, as well as encouraging new literary directions not motivated by the old means of literary development and success.\n\nThe examination system was revived in 1315, with significant changes, during the reign of Emperor Renzong. The new examination system was one of regionalism with Mongol characteristics. The northern areas of Mongolia and its vicinity were favored, and a quota system (both for number of candidates and number of degrees awarded) which was based on the classification of the imperial population into four racially-based groups (or castes and/or ethnicities) was instituted, the groups being Mongols, their non-Han allies (Semu-ren), Northern Chinese, and Southern Chinese, with further restrictions by province. Under the revived and revised system the yearly averages for examination degrees awarded was about 21. As the degrees were arithmetically divided between the four \"races\" (although with further modification), rather than being proportionally based on either population or number of qualified candidates, this tended to favor the Mongols, Semu-ren, and North Chinese: the South Chinese were by far the greatest part of the population, the 1290 census figures recording some 12,000,000 households (about 48% of the total Yuan population), versus 2,000,000 North Chinese households, and the populations of Mongols and Semu-ren were both less. The restrictions on candidates by the new quota system allowed only 300 candidates for each testing session of the three year examination cycle. The provincial restrictions resulted in a greater effect; for example, only 28 Han Chinese from South China were included among the 300 candidates, the rest of the South China slots (47) being occupied by resident Mongols or Semu-ren, although 47 \"racial South Chinese\" who were not residents of South China were approved as candidates.\n\nThe Ming dynasty (1368–1644) retained and expanded the system it inherited. Shortly after the inauguration of the dynasty, the Hongwu Emperor in 1370 declared that the exams should cover the Four Books, discourses, and political analysis, accepting the Neo-Confucian canon put forth by Zhu Xi in the Song dynasty. But he firmly insisted on including the martial arts.\nThe curriculum at the Guozijian (National Academy) emphasized law, mathematics, calligraphy, horse riding, and archery in addition to Confucian classics required in the exams. The emperor especially emphasized archery.\n\nThe three levels of examination were created during this period, whose degrees were in order, \"shengyuan\" (elementary), \"juren\" (provincial), and \"jinshi\" (metropolitan examination).\n\nThe Ming established Neo-Confucian interpretations as the orthodoxy guidelines and created what the historian Benjamin Elman called a \"single-minded and monocular political ideology\" that \"affected politically and socially how literati learning would be interpreted and used.\" The imperial civil service system adopted this rigid orthodoxy at a time when commercialization and population growth meant that there was an inflation in the number of degree candidates at the lower levels. As a result, the higher and more prestigious offices were dominated by \"jinshi \" (Palace) degree-holders, who tended to come from elite families. The Ming thus started a process in which access to government office became harder and harder and officials became more and more orthodox in their thought. Near the end of the Ming dynasty, in 1600, there were roughly half a million licentiates in a population of 150 million, that is, one per 300 people; by the mid-19th century the ratio had shrunk to one civil licentiate for each 1,000 people.\n\nThe social background of metropolitan graduates also narrowed as time went on. In the early years of the Ming dynasty only 14 percent of metropolitan graduates came from families that had a history of providing officials, while in the last years of the Ming roughly 60 percent of metropolitan exam graduates came from established elite families.\n\nThe Qing dynasty largely adopted the Ming civil-service exam in the year of its establishment, 1644. The \"shengyuan\" degree holders were given some tax exemptions from the general public. During the Qing dynasty a total of 112 \"jinshi\" examinations were held within 261 years (1644–1905), averaging 2.3 years per exam and 102 \"jinshi\" degrees conferred a year.\n\nThe Taiping Heavenly Kingdom, which attempted to overthrow the Qing dynasty in the middle of the 19th century, in 1853 admitted for the first time women as examination candidates. The exams administered by the Heavenly Kingdom differed from those administered by the Qing dynasty, in that they required knowledge of the Bible. Fu Shanxiang took the exam and became the first female zhuangyuan in Chinese history.\n\nWith the military defeats in the 1890s and pressure to develop a national school system, reformers such as Kang Youwei and Liang Qichao called for abolition of the exams, and the Hundred Days' Reform of 1898 proposed a set of modernizations. After the Boxer Rebellion, the government drew up plans to reform under the name of New Policies, then abolish the exams. On 2 September 1905, the throne endorsed a memorial which ordered that the old examination system be discontinued at all levels in the following years. The new system provided equivalents to the old degrees; a bachelor's degree, for instance, would be considered equivalent to the \"xiu cai\". The details of the new system remained to be worked out by the fall of the dynasty in 1911, but the end of the system meant the end of Confucianism as an official state ideology and of the scholar official as a legal group.\n\nReformers charged that the set format of the \"Eight-legged essay\" stifled original thought and satirists portrayed the rigidity of the system in novels such as \"Rulin waishi\". In the twentieth century, the New Culture Movement portrayed the examination system as a cause for China's weakness in such stories as Lu Xun's \"Kong Yiji.\" Some have suggested that limiting the topics prescribed in examination system removed the incentives for Chinese intellectuals to learn mathematics or to conduct experimentation, perhaps contributing to the Great Divergence, in which China's scientific and economic development fell behind Europe.\n\nOn the other hand, the political and ethical theories of Confucian classical curriculum has been compared to the classical studies of humanism in European nations which proved instrumental in selecting an \"all-rounded\" top-level leadership. British and French civil service examinations adopted in the late 19th century were also heavily based on Greco-Roman classical subjects and general cultural studies, as well as assessing personal physique and character. US leaders included \"virtue\" such as reputation and support for the US constitution as a criterion for government service. Well into the 20th century, Classics, Literature, History and Language remained heavily favoured in British civil service examinations. In the period of 1925-1935, 67 percent of British civil service entrants consisted of such graduates.\n\nIn late imperial China, the examination system was the major mechanism by which the central government captured and held the loyalty of local-level elites. Their loyalty, in turn, ensured the integration of the Chinese state, and countered tendencies toward regional autonomy and the breakup of the centralized system. The examination system distributed its prizes according to provincial and prefectural quotas, which meant that imperial officials were recruited from the whole country, in numbers roughly proportional to each province's population. Elite individuals all over China, even in the disadvantaged peripheral regions, had a chance at succeeding in the examinations and achieving the rewards and emoluments office brought.\n\nThe examination based civil service thus promoted stability and social mobility. The Confucian-based examinations meant that the local elites and ambitious would-be members of those elites across the whole of China were taught with similar values. Even though only a small fraction (about 5 percent) of those who attempted the examinations actually passed them and even fewer received titles, the hope of eventual success sustained their commitment. Those who failed to pass did not lose wealth or local social standing; as dedicated believers in Confucian orthodoxy, they served, without the benefit of state appointments, as teachers, patrons of the arts, and managers of local projects, such as irrigation works, schools, or charitable foundations.\n\nAfter the fall of the Qing in 1911, Dr. Sun Yat-sen, the leader of the newly risen Republic of China, developed similar procedures for the new political system through an institution called the Examination Yuan, one of the five branches of government, although this was quickly suspended due to the turmoil in China between the two world wars, such as the warlord period and the Japanese invasion. The Kuomintang administration revived the Examination Yuan in 1947 after the defeat of Japan. This system continues into present times in Taiwan along with the government itself after loss of the mainland to the Communist Party of China.\n\nThe examinations consisted of tests administered at the district, provincial, and metropolitan levels. Tight quotas restricted the number of successful candidates at each level—for example, only three hundred students could pass the metropolitan examinations. Students often took the examinations several times before earning a degree.\n\n\nEach candidate arrived at an examination compound with only a few amenities: a water pitcher, a chamber pot, bedding, food (which he had to prepare himself), an inkstone, ink and brushes. Guards verified a student's identity and searched for hidden printed materials. In the Ming and Qing periods, each exam taker spent three days and two nights writing \"eight-legged essays\"—literary compositions with eight distinct sections—in a tiny room with a makeshift bed, desk and bench. There were no interruptions during those three days, nor were candidates allowed any communication. If a candidate died, officials wrapped his body in a straw mat and tossed it over the high walls that ringed the compound.\n\nIntense pressure to succeed meant that cheating and corruption were rampant, often outrunning strenuous attempts to prevent or defeat them. The Ming-dynasty \"Book of Swindles\" (c. 1617) contains an entire section of stories about \"Corruption in Education\", most of which involve swindlers exploiting exam-takers' desperate attempts to bribe the examiner. In order to discourage favoritism which might occur if an examiner recognized a student's calligraphy, each exam was recopied by an official copyist. Exact quotes from the classics were required; misquoting even one character or writing it in the wrong form meant failure, so candidates went to great lengths to bring hidden copies of these texts with them, sometimes written on their underwear. The Minneapolis Institute of Arts holds an example of a Qing dynasty cheat sheet, a handkerchief with 10,000 characters of Confucian classics in microscopically small handwriting.\n\nBy 115 AD, a set curriculum had become established for the so-called First Generation of examination takers. They were tested on their proficiency in the \"Six Arts\":\n\n\nThe curriculum was then expanded to cover the \"Five Studies\": military strategy, civil law, revenue and taxation, agriculture and geography, and the Confucian classics. In this form, the examinations were institutionalized during the sixth century AD, under the Sui dynasty. These examinations are regarded by most historians as the first standardized tests based on merit.\n\nBy the Ming dynasty, the examinations and degrees formed a \"ladder of success\", with success generally being equated with being graduated as \"jinshi\", a degree similar to a modern Doctor of Literature degree, or PhD. Modifications to the basic \"jinshi\" or other degree were made for higher-placing graduates, similar to the modern Summa cum laude. The examination process extended down to the county level, and included examinations at the provincial and national levels. The highest level tests would be at the imperial court or palace level, of which the \"jinshi\" was the highest regular level, although special purpose tests were occasionally offered, by imperial decree:\n\n\nBesides the regular tests for the \"jinshi\" and other degrees, there were also occasionally special purpose examinations, by imperial decree (\"zhiju\"). These decree examinations were for the purpose of particular promotions or to identify talented men for dealing with certain, specific, especially difficult assignments. During the Song dynasty, in 1061, Emperor Renzong of Song decreed special examinations for the purpose of finding men capable of \"direct speech and full remonstrance\" (\"zhiyan jijian\"): the testing procedure required the examinees to submit 50 previously prepared essays, 25 on particular contemporary problems, 25 on more general historical governmental themes. In the examination room, the examinees then had a day to write essays on six topics chosen by the test officials, and finally were required to write a 3,000 character essay on a complex policy problem, personally chosen by the emperor, Renzong. Among the few successful candidates were the Su brothers, Su Shi and Su Zhe (who had already attained their \"jinshi\" degrees, in 1057), with Su Shi scoring exceptionally high in the examinations, and subsequently having copies of his examination essays widely circulated.\n\nDuring the reign of Wu Zetian the imperial government created specialized military examinations for the selection of army officers as a response to the breakdown of garrison militias known as the Fubing system. The first formal military examinations were introduced in 702. Before the military exams, the participants who were from military families studied at military schools. Successful candidates were awarded military versions of Jinshi and Juren degrees: \"Wujinshi\" (武進士) and \"Wujuren\" (武舉人), and so on. Military degrees were considered inferior to civil degrees and never held the same prestige until the end of the examinations during the Qing dynasty. The names of civil \"jinshi\" were carved in marble whereas military \"jinshi\" were not. Nevertheless, the civil and military elements of government were in Chinese political theory sometimes compared to the two wheels of a chariot; if either were neglected, government would not run smoothly. Thus, the military examinations had the same general arrangement as the regular exams, with provincial, metropolitan and palace versions of the exams. The ideal candidate was expected to master the same Confucian texts as the civilians, in addition to martial skills such as archery and horsemanship as well as Chinese military texts, especially Sun Tzu. At the entry level exam, for instance, which was conducted by the district magistrate, the candidate had to shoot three arrows while riding his horse toward the target, which was the shape of a person. A perfect score was three hits, a good score two, and one hit earned a pass. The candidate failed if he made no hits or fell from his horse. The higher levels were made up of more and more challenging exams until the highest level, conducted at the palace in the presence of the emperor, which included not only mounted archery, but bow bending, halberd brandishing, and weight lifting. \n\nDespite the intention of raising more military officers through these examinations, rarely did famous generals and strategists ever arise from military degree holders. With some exceptions such as the Tang general Guo Ziyi, the father of the founder of the Song dynasty Zhao Hongyin, Ming generals Yu Dayou and Qi Jiguang, and Qing general Wu Sangui, graduates of the official military examinations have left few traces. Even in desperate times, the majority of distinguished military figures in Chinese history have come from civil degree holders. In total, 282 military metropolitan exams were held between their inception in 702 and abolishment in 1901. The practices of the Qing and Ming military exams was incorporated into physical education during the Republic of China.\n\nBesides China, the military examinations were also a practice of certain Korean and Vietnamese dynasties.\n\nBy 1370, the examinations lasted between 24 and 72 hours, and were conducted in spare, isolated examination rooms; sometimes, however, it was held within cubicles. The small rooms featured two boards which could be placed together to form a bed or placed on different levels to serve as a desk and chair. In order to obtain objectivity in evaluation, candidates were identified by number rather than name, and examination answers were recopied by a third party before being evaluated to prevent the candidate's handwriting from being recognized.\n\nIn the main hall of the imperial palace during the Tang and Song Dynasties there stood two stone statues. One was of a dragon and the other of Ao (鳌), the mythical turtle whose chopped-off legs serve as pillars for the sky in Chinese legend. The statues were erected on stone plinths in the center of a flight of stairs where successful candidates (jinshi) in the palace examination lined up to await the reading of their rankings from a scroll known as the jinbang (金榜). The first ranked scholar received the title of Zhuàngyuán (狀元/状元), and the honor of standing in front of the statue of Ao. This gave rise to the use of the phrases \"to have stood at Ao's head\" (占鳌头 [Zhàn ào tóu]), or \"to have stood alone at Ao's head\" (独占鳌头 [Dú zhàn ào tóu]) to describe a Zhuàngyuán, and more generally to refer to someone who excels in a certain field.\n\nSome people were banned from taking the imperial exam, although this varied to some extent over history. Traditionally, Chinese society was divided into officials/nobility and commoners. The commoners were divided by class or status into 4 groups by occupation, ranked in order of prestige: scholars, farmers, artisans, and merchants. Beneath these in terms of prestige were the so-called \"mean\" people, with various regional names and attributes; but, boat-people, beggars, sex-workers, entertainers, slaves, and low-level government employees were all people included among the \"mean\" class: among other forms of discrimination, \"mean\" people were forbidden to serve as government officials or to take the imperial exam. This was the case for the caste of \"degraded\" outcasts in Ningbo city, where around 3,000 people, said to be Jin dynasty descendants, were barred from taking the Imperial Exams, among numerous other restrictions. Women were generally excluded from taking the exams. Butchers and sorcerers were also excluded at times. Merchants were generally restricted from taking the exams until the Ming and Qing dynasties. During Sui and Tang artisans were also restricted from official service; during the Song dynasty artisans and merchants were specifically excluded from the \"jinshi\" exam; and, in the Liao dynasty, physicians, diviners, butchers, and merchants were all prohibited from taking the examinations. At times, quota systems were also used to restrict the number of candidates allowed to take or to pass the imperial civil service examinations, by region or by other criteria.\n\nChinese traditional religion responded to concerns about the imperial examination system. The examination system was also influential on the contemporary literary tradition.\n\nFrom a certain viewpoint, the examination system represented the Confucian system in its most rationalist aspect. The test system was designed to achieve a society ruled by men of merit, as determined by an objective measure of the candidates' knowledge and intelligence. However, in actual operation, the examinations also included various religious, mythical, or irrational beliefs, which made the examination structure more complex than the Confucian ideal.\n\nA less scientifically rational idea which had a significant role in the cultural context of the examination system involved traditional beliefs about fate: that cosmic forces predestine certain human affairs, and particularly that individual success or failure was subject to the will of Heaven, or that the results of taking the tests could be influenced by the intervention of various deities.\n\nZhong Kui, also known as Chung-kuei, was a deity associated with the examination system. The story is that he was a scholar who took the tests, and, despite his most excellent performance, he was unfairly deprived of the first-place prize by a corrupt system: in response, he killed himself, the act of suicide condemning him to be a ghost. Many people afraid of traveling on roads and paths that may be haunted by evil spirits have worshiped Zhong Kui as a protective deity.\n\nAlso known as \"Kechang Yiwen Lu\", the \"Strange Stories from the Examination Halls\" was a collection of stories popular among Confucian scholars of the Qing dynasty. The theme of many of the stories is that good deeds are rewarded by success in the examination halls, often by Heaven-inspired deities acting on karmic principles; and evil deeds result in failure, often under the influence of the ghosts of victims.\n\nSome individuals were discriminated against because of their names, due to a naming taboo. For example, because the Tang dynasty poet Li He's father's name sounded like the \"jin\", in \"jinshi\", he was discouraged from taking the tests. The claim was that if Li He was called a \"jinshi\", it would be against the rule of etiquette that a son not be called by his father's name.\n\nThe Chinese imperial examination system had extensive influence throughout East Asia. It was used as a model by both the Goryeo and Joseon dynasties in Korea (see \"Gwageo\") until the country's annexation by Japan. The examination was technically open to all, except Nobi who were not subject to taxes or army service. \n\nThe Chinese system provided the framework for the Confucian examination system in Vietnam from the reign of the Lý dynasty Emperor Lý Nhân Tông (1075) until that of the Nguyễn dynasty Emperor Khải Định (1919). \n\nJapan also used the system as a model in the Heian period; however, it affected only the minor nobility and was replaced by the hereditary system during the Samurai era.\n\nThe imperial examination system attracted much attention and greatly inspired political theorists in the Western World, and one of the earliest Chinese institutions to receive foreign notice. It influenced the Northcote–Trevelyan Report and hence the reform of the Civil Service in British India. After Great Britain's successful implementation of systematic, open, and competitive examinations in India in the 19th century, similar systems were instituted in the United Kingdom itself, and in other Western nations.\n\nSome of the main outstanding questions regarding the imperial examinations are in regard to poetry. To what extent did the inclusion of poetry in the examinations influence the writing of poetry, for instance the proliferation of poetry during the Tang dynasty? There is a long history of debate on the usefulness of the procedure of testing the ability of the candidates to write poetry. During the Tang dynasty, a poetry section was added to the examinations, requiring the examinee to compose a \"shi\" poem in the five-character, 12-line regulated verse form and a \"fu\" composition of 300 to 400 characters The poetry requirement remained standard for many decades, despite some controversy, although briefly abolished for the examination year 833–834 (by order of Li Deyu). During the Song dynasty, in the late 1060s Wang Anshi removed the traditional poetry composition sections (regulated verse and \"fu\"), on the grounds of irrelevancy to the official functions of bureaucratic office: on the other side of the debate, Su Shi (Dongpo) pointed out that the selection of great ministers of the past had not been obstructed by the poetry requirements, that the study and practice of poetry encouraged careful writing, and that the evaluation and grading of poetry was more objective than for the prose essays, due to the strict and detailed rules for writing verse according to the formal requirements.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4281352", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4281352", "title": "James Alexander Forrest", "text": "James Alexander Forrest\n\nSir James \"Jim\" Alexander Forrest (10 March 1905 – 26 September 1990) was an Australian lawyer, businessman and philanthropist.\n\nBorn in Kerang, Victoria, Forrest was educated at Caulfield Grammar School in Melbourne before studying an articled clerk's course at the University of Melbourne. Although this course did not end with him receiving a law degree, Forrest became qualified to work as both a barrister and solicitor in Victoria. His admission to the Victorian Bar was moved by both Robert Menzies and Wilfred Fullagar, and presided over by William Irvine, then the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of Victoria.\n\nForrest became a prominent lawyer, specialising in corporate law. He was a partner at the firm of Hedderwicks Fookes & Alston, which later merged to become Allens Arthur Robinson. During World War II, he was a Flight Lieutenant in the Royal Australian Air Force, and shortly after the war took up several board directorships of Australian companies. From 1959 to 1978, he served as the Chairman of the National Bank of Australasia, and he served at both Alcoa Australia and Western Mining Corporation as Chairman and director respectively.\n\nFrom 1961 to 1971 he was a foundation member of the Council of Monash University. In 1979, he was awarded an honorary Doctor of Laws degree by the university for service to the law, commerce and Monash itself. He was a board member of numerous charitable and educational bodies, including the Royal Children's Hospital, Scotch College, Scouts Australia, and an original member of the Victoria Law Foundation. He was also a fellow of the Australian Academy of Science from 1977 to his death, after becoming the fourth person inducted into the Fellowship by Special Election.\n\nA portrait of Forrest, donated by Alcoa, now hangs in the National Portrait Gallery at Old Parliament House. He was made a Knight Bachelor in 1967 for \"services to the community\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1915270", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1915270", "title": "Jewelry District (Los Angeles)", "text": "Jewelry District (Los Angeles)\n\nThe Jewelry District is a section of Downtown Los Angeles where a variety of jeweled products are sold.\n\nAccording to the Los Angeles Convention Center and Visitor's Bureau, it is the largest jewelry district in the United States. The annual reported sales from the Jewelry District is just under $3 billion. It comprises close to 5,000 businesses, with vendors on Hill Street, Olive Street, and Broadway between 5th and 8th Streets. Shoppers can find designer jewelry, precious stones, and gold and silver items at street level as well as in some of the jewelers found in the Los Angeles Jewelry Mart, Pacific Center, the California Jewelry Mart, and the International Jewelry Center also known as the \"550\" building.\n\nThe Jewelry District is predominantly made up of early twentieth-century buildings, when the number of registered vehicles in the county grew from 160,000 to 842,000 in a span of 10 years. Half of the area falls under the greater “Historic Core” of Downtown Los Angeles, which spans between Hill and Main Streets, and 3rd and 9th streets. The median year in which the buildings in the area were built was 1923. The oldest building to remain in the district is located on 543 South Broadway Avenue - a three story, 32,600 square foot commercial space that is now occupied by Teresa’s Bridals. Two of the earliest jewelers to establish stores in 1932 were the Laykin Diamond Company (Laykin et Cie) and Harry Winston & Co. Both stores were housed at the historic Alexandria Hotel on 5th street, just behind the district on S. Broadway.\n\nAlmost all of the buildings within the Jewelry District were designed for general office use with retail spaces on the street level, with some large venues, such as the historic Loew’s State Theatre on 703 S. Broadway, which was built in 1923. In the early twentieth-century, downtown was rapidly developing but it did not feature skyscrapers as tall as Chicago and New York. The buildings were limited to 150 feet by law, which was favored by architects and planners who saw the towering skyscrapers of the east coast metropolises as unsustainable and not conducive to the Southern California lifestyle. Although many residents were living in apartment buildings at the time, the architects and planners argued that excessive vertical expansion would lead to inhumane overconcentration and congestion.\n\nThe influx of jewelry stores in the area did not come about until after the 1960s when gold came to be seen as a safer investment than U.S. dollars. Before this surge, the California Jewelry Mart dominated the local industry with its establishment on S. 607 Hill Street. The district became even more popular with the opening of Saint Vincent Jewelry Center, which is still housed in a large 1923 building complex with a European-inspired alley of restaurants. Across the street from St. Vincent’s is the State Theater Building, a twelve-story red brick office building and theater, designed by Charles Peter Weeks and William Day in 1921. Right across Loew’s Theatre was another office building which accommodated a drug store in the early 20th century. Behind Loews, along 7th street, is the Speckels building – an office building turned garment manufacturing center – and the Provident Loan Association, a not-for-profit organization that provided short term loans for gold and jewelry. It was the last remaining of the many not-for-profit loan societies of the late 19th and early 20th century. Another building on 728 S. Hill Street is the Jasper building, a 14-story office Italianate building built in 1928, which was converted to accommodate another jewelry manufacturing center. One particular historic site in process of restoration is Clifton’s Cafeteria on 648 South Broadway, whose original 1904 façade has been restored after 50 years of a grate-like, modern aluminum covering. This 1963 remodeling effort was an attempt to compete with the newer restaurants in the city suburbs. It was once home to Boos Brothers Cafeteria until Clifton purchased the lease in 1935.\n\nThe Los Angeles Jewelry District can be accessed by public transportation through the Red Line to Pershing Square station. The district is southeast of the square.\n\n"}
{"id": "48416115", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48416115", "title": "June Brooks", "text": "June Brooks\n\nJune Brooks (1924-2010) was an Oklahoma businesswoman, speaker and promoter of the Oil and Gas Industry. She advocated for energy independence and spoke throughout the world on responsible energy development. She won numerous awards, including the Distinguished Service from both the Oklahoma Petroleum Council and the American Association of Petroleum Landmen, as well as being honored as an Outstanding Woman of Energy from the Association of Women in Energy and one of the inaugural inductees into the Oklahoma Women's Hall of Fame.\n\nJune Brooks was born on June 24, 1924 in Ardmore, Oklahoma to Lillian Eva (née Berry) and Major McKinley Brooks. She went to university studying at both the University of Oklahoma and North Texas State Teachers College. At North Texas, she met her future husband and after they married, she raised three children. In her early 50s, she was divorced and turned to public speaking on behalf of the oil and gas industry to make a living for her family. She established June Brooks Oil and Gas Company and served on the Interstate Oil Compact Commission in the 1970s. In 1975, she attended the World Petroleum Congress in Tokyo and was the only woman present. The conference strengthened her belief in energy independence and she became a vocal advocate, traveling throughout the world speaking for responsible development of the industry.\n\nShe was a member of the American Association of Petroleum Landmen and in 1978 received a Distinguished Service Award from them. She also spoke on behalf of Women in Energy and was honored by them with the 1980 Woman of Achievement in Energy award. Between 1978 and 1982 she received multiple awards from the Oklahoma Petroleum Council Speakers Bureau and in 1982, was one of the inaugural inductees into the Oklahoma Women's Hall of Fame. Brooks continued lobbying on behalf of the oil and gas industry throughout the 1980s, urging industry officials to become politically involved, write their congress members and the president of the United States in protest of moratoriums on exploration.\n\nBrooks continued to be honored after retirement, with such honors as a Lifetime Achievement Award from the International Energy Advocates in 2005, a A Salute to Oklahoma's Energy Past by Oklahoma's Energy Advocates in 2007 and inclusion in a book, \"Astronauts, Athlete & Ambassadors, Oklahoma Women from 1950 to 2007\", published as part of Oklahoma's centennial. \nBrooks died on August 29, 2010 in Ardmore, Oklahoma.\n\n"}
{"id": "27619855", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27619855", "title": "Karim Ojjeh", "text": "Karim Ojjeh\n\nKarim Ojjeh (born 27 August 1965 in Geneva)(Arabic:كريم عجة ) is a Saudi Arabian businessman and racing driver. He is the younger brother of Mansour Ojjeh and son of Akram Ojjeh. He is a director of TAG Finance S.A.. In his spare time he races in the Le Mans Series and the 24 Hours of Le Mans.\n\nBetween 1991 and 1994, Ojjeh attended the Jim Russell Racing Driver School. He raced in Formula Palmer Audi between 2002 and 2004. He made his Le Mans Series debut in 2004 in a Ferrari 360 Modena. In 2005, he competed full-time in the series for Paul Belmondo Racing in an LMP2 Courage-AER, winning two races. Ojjeh and the team finished second in class at the 2005 24 Hours of Le Mans. Ojjeh continued racing with the team in 2006, but for 2007, he moved to Barazi-Epsilon, winning two LMS races in their Zytek. For 2008, Ojjeh competed in a Zytek 07S/2 for the Trading Performance team. In 2009, Ojjeh raced the Zytek under the G.A.C Racing Team banner, and for 2010 raced the updated Ginetta-Zytek GZ09S/2 for Team Bruichladdich.\n"}
{"id": "13462042", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13462042", "title": "Lambert Review", "text": "Lambert Review\n\nThe Lambert Review of Business-University Collaboration was a report by Richard Lambert published by Her Majesty's Treasury in the United Kingdom in 2003, which made \"a series of recommendations aimed at smoothing out the path between Britain’s strong science base and the business community\" [HM Treasury 2003a]. The Lambeth Review concluded that the British dual support system acts as a disincentive to business-university collaboration [HM Treasury 2003, p5] and that the biggest single challenge for knowledge transfer is in boosting the demand for research from non-academic communities, rather in increasing the supply of ideas and services from universities [p10].\n\nThe Treasury advised that:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49770197", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49770197", "title": "Mai Mukaida", "text": "Mai Mukaida\n\nIn 2009, she started the \"Coffret Project\". She is CEO of the cosmetics company \"Lalitpur\". She was awarded the Avon Women's Prize () in 2012.\n"}
{"id": "46335332", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46335332", "title": "Marc Harris", "text": "Marc Harris\n\nMarc Matthew Harris (born c. 1965) is a Panamanian accountant who was formerly active in the field of offshore financial services. At one time he claimed that his firm, The Harris Organisation, had funds under management of $1 billion and $35 million in capital but the organization collapsed after being exposed as fraudulent in \"OffshoreAlert\" in 1998. In 2004, Harris was convicted in the United States on charges of money laundering and tax evasion.\n\nHarris was born around 1965. His father was Baum Harris and his mother was Marianna Adler. He graduated from North Carolina Wesleyan College aged 18 and received an MBA from Columbia University in 1985. He qualified as a certified public accountant in the United States but quickly left the Florida firm he joined. He started his own firm in Miami with a $5,000 advance on his credit card in December 1985 but his license was suspended by the Florida authorities in December 1990 for various \"violations\".\n\nWith Jerome Schneider, Harris set up banks in Montserrat that included, among others, the Allied Reserve Bank, Fidelity Overseas Bank, and First City Bank, but these were all closed down by the Montserrat authorities around 1988.\n\nIn 1989 or 1990, Harris left the United States as a result of what he called U.S. Internal Revenue Service \"persecution\". He settled in Panama, renounced his U.S. citizenship, and became a Panamanian citizen. In order to operate in the offshore trust market, Harris bought the Trust Services firm from Robin Bailey and Derek Sambrook in 1995 but the two bought the firm back after becoming disillusioned with Harris's business practices.\n\nHe traded as The Harris Organisation and marketed his services online through the marc-harris.com and escapeartist.com websites, offering services such as second passports, offshore trusts, company formation, investments, asset protection and ancillary services. The firm used a Panama postal address but was incorporated in the British Virgin Islands. In 1998, Harris claimed that his firm had funds under management of $1 billion and $35 million in capital.\n\nIn March 1998, Jim Bennett, an offshore asset protection attorney, asked David Marchant, editor of the \"OffshoreAlert\" newsletter, to investigate Harris. Bennett had seen Harris speak in London at the Shorex offshore finance conference in London in 1997. Harris had already come to the attention of financial regulators in various countries by the time that Marchant published his findings in \"OffshoreAlert\" in March 1998 but Marchant's report was the first to show a complete picture of Harris's operation. Among other things, Marchant accused The Harris Organisation of being an insolvent Ponzi scheme. In April that year Harris responded by filing a $30 million libel claim against Marchant which Harris lost. In 2000, he also lost his appeal against the original ruling.\n\nIn 2002, Harris moved to Nicaragua, reportedly after things got difficult for him in Panama. In June 2003, he was arrested in Managua when he and his wife were en route to an immigration hearing. He was handed to U.S. Marshals who were waiting for him and flown to Miami to face charges of avoiding $6.2 million of excise tax along with alleged co-conspirators Aurelio and Joseph Vigna who the U.S. government argued were involved in the illegal import into the United States of the ozone-depleting refrigerant chemical Freon. Harris's role was to channel money through one of his trust companies. In 2004, he was convicted of money laundering and tax evasion, sentenced to 17 years in jail, and ordered to pay a fine of $27 million which is believed never to have been collected. IRS examination of Harris's records after the trial led to the prosecution of a number of Americans for tax evasion. He was released early, potentially due to health issues, in August 2016.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21582679", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21582679", "title": "Marginal product of labor", "text": "Marginal product of labor\n\nIn economics, the marginal product of labor (MP) is the change in output that results from employing an added unit of labor.\n\nThe marginal product of a factor of production is generally defined as the change in output associated with a change in that factor, holding other inputs into production constant.\n\nThe marginal product of labor is then the change in output (\"Y\") per unit change in labor (\"L\"). In discrete terms the marginal product of labor is:\n\nIn continuous terms, the \"MP\" is the first derivative of the production function:\n\nGraphically, the \"MP\" is the slope of the production function.\n\nThere is a factory which produces toys. When there are no workers in the factory, no toys are produced. When there is one worker in the factory, six toys are produced per hour. When there are two workers in the factory, eleven toys are produced per hour. There is a marginal product of labor of five when there are two workers in the factory compared to one. When the marginal product of labor is increasing, this is called increasing marginal returns. However, as the number of workers increases, the marginal product of labor may not increase indefinitely. When not scaled properly, the marginal product of labor may go down when the number of employees goes up, creating a situation known as diminishing marginal returns. When the marginal product of labor becomes negative, it is known as negative marginal returns.\n\nThe marginal product of labor is directly related to costs of production. Costs are divided between fixed and variable costs. Fixed costs are costs that relate to the fixed input, capital, or \"rK\", where \"r\" is the rental cost of capital and \"K\" is the quantity of capital. Variable costs (VC) are the costs of the variable input, labor, or \"wL\", where \"w\" is the wage rate and \"L\" is the amount of labor employed. Thus, VC = wL . Marginal cost (MC) is the change in total cost per unit change in output or ∆C/∆Q. In the short run, production can be varied only by changing the variable input. Thus only variable costs change as output increases: ∆C = ∆VC = ∆(wL). Marginal cost is ∆(Lw)/∆Q. Now, ∆L/∆Q is the reciprocal of the marginal product of labor (∆Q/∆L). Therefore, marginal cost is simply the wage rate w divided by the marginal product of labor\n\nThus if the marginal product of labor is rising then marginal costs will be falling and if the marginal product of labor is falling marginal costs will be rising (assuming a constant wage rate).\n\nThe average product of labor is the total product of labor divided by the number of units of labor employed, or \"Q/L\". The average product of labor is a common measure of labor productivity. The AP curve is shaped like an inverted “u”. At low production levels the AP tends to increase as additional labor is added. The primary reason for the increase is specialization and division of labor. At the point the AP reaches its maximum value AP equals the MP. Beyond this point the AP falls.\n\nDuring the early stages of production MP is greater than AP. When the MP is above the AP the AP will increase. Eventually the \"MP\" reaches it maximum value at the point of diminishing returns. Beyond this point MP will decrease. However, at the point of diminishing returns the MP is still above the AP and AP will continue to increase until MP equals AP. When MP is below AP, AP will decrease.\n\nGraphically, the \"AP\" curve can be derived from the total product curve by drawing secants from the origin that intersect (cut) the total product curve. The slope of the secant line equals the average product of labor, where the slope = dQ/dL. The slope of the curve at each intersection marks a point on the average product curve. The slope increases until the line reaches a point of tangency with the total product curve. This point marks the maximum average product of labor. It also marks the point where MP (which is the slope of the total product curve) equals the AP (the slope of the secant). Beyond this point the slope of the secants become progressively smaller as \"AP\" declines. The MP curve intersects the AP curve from above at the maximum point of the AP curve. Thereafter, the MP curve is below the AP curve.\n\nThe falling MP is due to the law of diminishing marginal returns. The law states, \"as units of one input are added (with all other inputs held constant) a point will be reached where the resulting additions to output will begin to decrease; that is marginal product will decline.\" The law of diminishing marginal returns applies regardless of whether the production function exhibits increasing, decreasing or constant returns to scale. The key factor is that the variable input is being changed while all other factors of production are being held constant. Under such circumstances diminishing marginal returns are inevitable at some level of production.\n\nDiminishing marginal returns differs from diminishing returns. Diminishing marginal returns means that the marginal product of the variable input is falling. Diminishing returns occur when the marginal product of the variable input is negative. That is when a unit increase in the variable input causes total product to fall. At the point that diminishing returns begin the MP is zero.\n\nThe general rule is that a firm maximizes profit by producing that quantity of output where marginal revenue equals marginal costs. The profit maximization issue can also be approached from the input side. That is, what is the profit maximizing usage of the variable input? To maximize profits the firm should increase usage \"up to the point where the input’s marginal revenue product equals its marginal costs\". So, mathematically the profit maximizing rule is MRP = MC. The marginal profit per unit of labor equals the marginal revenue product of labor minus the marginal cost of labor or Mπ = MRP − MCA firm maximizes profits where Mπ = 0.\n\nThe marginal revenue product is the change in total revenue per unit change in the variable input assume labor. That is, MRP = ∆TR/∆L. MRP is the product of marginal revenue and the marginal product of labor or MRP = MR × MP.\n\n\n • formula_4\n\n • Output price is $40 per unit.\n\n\nIn the aftermath of the marginal revolution in economics, a number of economists including John Bates Clark and Thomas Nixon Carver sought to derive an ethical theory of income distribution based on the idea that workers were morally entitled to receive a wage exactly equal to their marginal product. In the 20th century, marginal productivity ethics found few supporters among economists, being criticised not only by egalitarians but by economists associated with the Chicago school such as Frank Knight (in \"The Ethics of Competition\") and the Austrian School, such as Leland Yeager. However, marginal productivity ethics were defended by George Stigler.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19538137", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19538137", "title": "Maximilian Leopold Loeblich", "text": "Maximilian Leopold Loeblich\n\nMaximilian Leopold Löblich (born 16 November 1901 in Vienna; died 1 March 1984) was an Austrian entrepreneur, coppersmith, engineer and president of Löblich & Co., the oldest heating manufacturer in Austria.\n\nMax Loeblich, son of the director of the Vienna Local Railway Company (\"Wiener Lokalbahnen\"), went to boarding-school in Horn, Lower Austria, then finished the poly-technicum in Vienna and became a coppersmith master there. From 1924 to 1927 he worked as a technical designer in a German manufacturing company, before becoming responsible for product design and engineering at Loeblich & Co.\n\nIn 1935 he took over the management of the Leopold Loeblich Metal Works from his uncle Leopold Löblich, together with his brother, the engineer Franz Loeblich. The Federal Union of Coppersmiths became under Nazi rule (1938–1945) part of a German craftsmanship representation, in which Loeblich (despite not being a member of the Nazi Party), was elected chairman, representing the coppersmiths. After the death of his brother in the last days of World War II, he continued the business on his own.\n\nAs engineer and designer of new types of heating boilers (Rohleder-system welded smoke-pipe boilers with atmospheric burners (Polidoro, Italy), and Brahma-system electro-mechanical gas valves) he managed to expand the business among the leading producers in Europe and was the leader in Austria's market for gas heaters in the 1950s. In due course, gas became the most popular form of energy for household heating in Austria and many countries in Europe.\n\nAmong Loeblich's customers were Austria's federal presidents Adolf Schärf, Franz Jonas, Kurt Waldheim, and Thomas Klestil, and Hungarian president János Kádár, prime minister Bruno Kreisky, and vice-chancellor Alois Mock. Loeblich obtained many public awards during this period.\n\nA few years before his death in 1984 he passed over the management of the company to his son Max Wolfgang Loeblich (b. 1931) and his nephew, engineer Adolf Loeblich (b. 1938), who continued the business and started many international cooperations, distribution and service agreements in the fields of heating and catering systems.\n\nMarried to Elisabeth Goetz (1899–1987), Loeblich was the father of three children: Maria, Konstanze, and Max. Loeblich died in 1984 and is buried in Weidling near Vienna in the family grave, the first work of architect Robert Oerley.\n"}
{"id": "35308533", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35308533", "title": "Milos Krofta", "text": "Milos Krofta\n\nMilos Krofta(July 23, 1912 - 2002) was a Slovenian engineer and businessman. He developed the technology of dissolved air flotation mainly for the paper industry, in aim to improve the water reuse and to reach the goal of zero discharge. He founded the Lenox Institute for Water Technology, an educational institution for the teaching of water treatment technologies, and was inducted in the Paper Industry International Hall of Fame in 1997. \nHis contribution to technological improvement in paper production and in the use of dissolved air flotation is so much eminent that the equipment itself is often named Krofta itself.\n\nBorn in Ljubljana, Slovenia on July 23, 1912, he studied mechanical engineering in both Ljubljana and Prague; after some years managing paper mills in Slovenia, he moved to Milan, Italy in 1945 due to the political situation in his homeland. He started successfully operating as an engineering consultant and then moved to USA, where he moved in 1951; after the set up of Krofta Engineering Corporation, Dr. Krofta began to design and manufacture equipment for his customers. His improvements in hydraulic design resulted in major improvements in DAF technology performances in water clarification, both for the paper industry and different applications, with lower chemicals and energy consumption; the high efficiency of equipment like the Krofta Supercell allowed for high rate of pulp recovery and reuse of process water, reaching the goal of zero discharge for a water demanding industry. Milos Krofta started several branches in the world and founded the Lenox Institute for Water Technology, a non-profit educational and research unit based in Lenox, MA; Krofta companies, his patents and legacy are now part of Krofta .\n"}
{"id": "2642795", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2642795", "title": "Movielink", "text": "Movielink\n\nMovielink was a web-based video on demand (VOD) and electronic sell-through (EST) service offering movies, TV shows and other videos for rental or purchase. Movielink drew its content offerings from the libraries of Paramount Pictures, Sony Pictures Entertainment, Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer, Universal Studios, Warner Bros. Entertainment, Buena Vista Pictures (including Miramax), Twentieth Century Fox, Koch Entertainment and others on a non-exclusive basis. While it was only available to users in the United States, it was the first company in the world to offer legally downloadable movies from major studios.\n\nIn general, movies obtained through Movielink could only be viewed on the computer or a TV connected to the computer that the movie was purchased from. However, consumer electronics devices such as the Xbox 360 game console also allowed users to more easily view these digital media on a traditional TV screen. Also, Movielink had deals with certain set top box companies to offer its movies downloaded directly to people's TV's (including AT&T's Homezone product). Experimentation with other business models was underway, including a feature which allowed users to purchase, download, and burn a DVD of a selected film.\n\nMovielink was launched on November 11, 2002. Movielink used digital rights management software from Microsoft and RealNetworks to protect their content. Consequently, compatibility was limited to Intel-based computers running Microsoft Windows 2000, XP,or Vista and Windows Media Player version 9 or later. They offered daily weekday specials for under 99 cents, and certain films for half price every week.\n\nOn June 1, 2006, it was revealed that Movielink's initial investors—a joint venture of Paramount, Sony, MGM, Universal, and Warner Bros—were looking to sell the company. This came shortly after numerous studios announced their intent to work with a range of potential Movielink competitors, such as Amazon.com, Apple Computer, BitTorrent Inc., Jaman and Microsoft Xbox.\n\nOn August 8, 2007, Blockbuster purchased Movielink. According to the 8-K filing by Blockbuster, the total purchase price was $6.6 million. The deal included content agreements thus giving Blockbuster access to one of the largest libraries of downloadable movies. With the acquisition of Movielink, Blockbuster was positioned for media content delivery in brick and mortar rentals, DVD-by-mail, and online delivery of movies.\n\nOn December 16, 2008, the Movielink website was shut down. The site was re-directed to the Blockbuster home page. Customers were notified 30 days in advance that all movies rented or purchased prior to the shutdown date must be downloaded by no later than 12/15/08 11:59 P.M. Pacific Time.\n\n"}
{"id": "32539527", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32539527", "title": "National Access and Scaffolding Confederation", "text": "National Access and Scaffolding Confederation\n\nThe National Access and Scaffolding Confederation (NASC) is a United Kingdom construction trade association representing companies involved in scaffolding and access work.\n\nFounded in 1945, the NASC represents its sector as a member of Build UK (formerly UK Contractors Group). It is also a member of the Trade Association Forum.\n\nThe NASC offers its member companies an additional source of recognition for customer assurance, as well as information and support regarding security, training, and legal issues. It also hosts regular events for industry members.\n\n"}
{"id": "33457394", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33457394", "title": "New Enterprise Associates", "text": "New Enterprise Associates\n\nNew Enterprise Associates (NEA) is an American-based venture capital firm. NEA focuses investment stages ranging from seed stage through growth stage across an array of industry sectors. With over $18 billion in assets under management, NEA was the world's largest venture capital firm in 2007.\n\nThe firm is headquartered in Menlo Park, California, and Washington, D.C., and has additional offices in Baltimore, Bangalore, Beijing, Boston, Mumbai, New York City, San Francisco and Shanghai.\n\nSince its founding, NEA invested in nearly 1,000 companies, and realized over 560 liquidity events (with close to 250 portfolio company IPOs and over 300 portfolio company acquisitions).\n\nNEA was founded in 1977 by C. Richard (Dick) Kramlich, Chuck Newhall and Frank Bonsal. Kramlich had worked with noted venture capitalist Arthur Rock beginning 1969 and Frank Bosnal had been an investment banker at Alex. Brown & Sons where he focused on initial public offerings (IPOs) for startup companies. Chuck Newhall had previously managed an investment fund for T. Rowe Price in the 1970s. The firm was founded with offices on both the East Coast and the West Coast. Among the firm's first investments was 3Com, which NEA backed along with Mayfield Fund and Jack Melchor in 1981.\n\nThe first NEA investment fund had only $16 million of capital. The firm's second fund raised $45 million and the third fund collected $125 million of commitments from investors in 1984. The firm continued to grow steadily throughout the 1980s and early 1990s raising $900 million from 1987 through 1996 across NEA's next four funds. Beginning with NEA-8 in 1998, the firm greatly increased the size of its investment funds. NEA's tenth fund had $2.3 billion of investor commitments in 2000. After raising a more modest $1.1 billion in 2004 for the firm's eleventh fund, NEA was able to raise $2.3 billion and $2.5 billion for its next two funds, respectively.\nIn 2010, NEA launched its thirteenth investment fund with $2.5 billion of investor capital, the largest since the Financial crisis of 2007–08.\nIn 2012, NEA closed its fourteenth investment fund with $2.6 billion of investor capital. \nIn April 2015, NEA closed its fifteenth investment fund with $3.1 billion in investor capital - the largest venture capital fund ever raised. In June 2017, NEA closed its sixteenth investment fund with $3.3 billion in investor capital - again the largest venture capital fund ever raised.\n\nIn 2018, former CEO of General Electric, Jeff Immelt, joined the firm as a venture partner.\n\nThe firm's investments include Formlabs, Masterclass, 23andMe, 3com, Appian, Bitglass, Bloom Energy, Box, Braintree, Boingo Wireless, Box, Burrow, Buzzfeed, CareerBuilder, CCP Games, Choosy, Climate Corporation, Cloudflare, Coursera, Cvent, Desktop Metal, Diapers.com, Drop, Duolingo, Enigma, Forter, Fusion-io, Groupon, Gilt Groupe, Global Savings Group, Houzz, Jet.com, Juniper Networks, The Learning Company, Lot18, Macromedia, MapD Technologies, MongoDB, MuleSoft, Nicira, Opower, Pentaho, Raise Marketplace, Robinhood Markets, Salesforce.com, ScienceLogic, Semiconductor Manufacturing International Corporation, Snap Inc., Spreadtrum, Swiftype, Tableau Software, The Players' Tribune, Tempus, TiVo, Topera Medical, Uber, UUNET, Vonage, WebMD, Workday, and ZeroFOX.\n\n"}
{"id": "36315862", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36315862", "title": "Noel Capon", "text": "Noel Capon\n\nNoel Capon (born 1937) is an American organizational theorist, and the R.C. Kopf Professor of International Marketing at Columbia Business School.\n\nCapon received his BSc and PhD in Chemistry from the University College London his PhD from Manchester Business School, his MBA from Harvard University and another PhD from Columbia University in 1975 with a thesis entitled \"Experimental evaluation of alternative message variables in personal selling and direct mail advertising\".\n\nCapon had previously held faculty positions at UCLA Anderson School of Management and Harvard Business School before joining Columbia in 1979. He served as Chair of Marketing at both UCLA and Columbia. He has been visiting professor at INSEAD (France), Hong Kong University of Science and Technology (HKUST), and the China Europe International Business School (CEIBS), Shanghai, PRC.\n\nCapon has taught marketing, and sales and strategic account management courses to MBA and EMBA students at Columbia and at many educational institutions as a visiting professor. He also contributes to Columbia Business School's Executive Education and has designed, directed, and taught in a wide variety of marketing, sales management, and strategic and global account management programs. He also designs, directs and teaches in numerous custom programs for major corporations globally. Professor Capon co-founded The Chief Sales Executive Forum, now in its 10th year, and sits on the board of the Strategic Account Management Association.\n\nCapon has published over 60 refereed articles and book chapters, and has published more than 20 books, including:\n\n"}
{"id": "68033", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=68033", "title": "Non-Manufacturing Business Activity Index", "text": "Non-Manufacturing Business Activity Index\n\nThe Non-Manufacturing Business Activity Index is a seasonally adjusted index released by the Institute for Supply Management measuring business activity in the United States service economy as part of the Non-Manufacturing ISM Report on Business.\n\nAn index greater than 50 indicates growth in business activity.\n"}
{"id": "4649271", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4649271", "title": "Oppression remedy", "text": "Oppression remedy\n\nIn corporate law in Commonwealth countries, an oppression remedy is a statutory right available to oppressed shareholders. It empowers the shareholders to bring an action against the corporation in which they own shares when the conduct of the company has an effect that is oppressive, unfairly prejudicial, or unfairly disregards the interests of a shareholder. It was introduced in response to \"Foss v Harbottle\", which had held that where a company's actions were ratified by a majority of the shareholders, the courts will not generally interfere.\n\nIt has been widely copied in companies legislation throughout the Commonwealth, including:\n\nThe \"Companies Ordinance\" of Hong Kong also contains similar provisions.\n\nAn oppression remedy, intended to operate as an alternative to winding up a company, was adopted as s. 210 of the \"Companies Act 1948\", which declared:\n\nIn the \"Companies Act 2006\", the relevant provision is expressed in s. 994 (and the Secretary of State has similar authority under s. 995):\n\nConduct that is considered to constitute \"unfair prejudice\" has been given a broad interpretation, which can include:\n\nThe conduct is not confined to a specific group. In \"Re HR Harmer Ltd\", Jenkins LJ noted that the definition is \"wide enough to cover oppression by anyone who is taking part in the conduct of the affairs of the company whether \"de facto\" or \"de jure\".\" Therefore, it can cover the actions of:\n\nProvisions similar to s. 210 of the 1948 UK Act were first introduced into Canadian law through the 1975 passage of the \"Canada Business Corporations Act\". It incorporated recommendations made in 1962 by the UK Jenkins Committee on Company Law for removing the linkage of the remedy with that of winding-up and for broadening its scope. Canadian legislation (both federally and in all provinces other than Prince Edward Island) provides for a broad approach to the oppression remedy (). In \"Peoples Department Stores Inc. (Trustee of) v. Wise\", the Supreme Court of Canada noted:\n\nA \"complainant\" is deemed to be a current or former registered security holder, a current or former director or officer, the Director appointed under the \"CBCA\", or \"any other person who, in the discretion of a court, is a proper person to make an application under this Part.\" In that regard, it can include a creditor of the corporation (but not every creditor will qualify), as well as a trustee appointed under the \"Bankruptcy and Insolvency Act\" or a monitor appointed under the \"Companies' Creditors Arrangement Act\".\n\nAs in the United Kingdom, oppressive conduct is not restricted to that committed by corporations. In the case of corporate directors, the Supreme Court of Canada in 2017 held that they can be held personally liable for such conduct, but only where:\n\n\nApplications to the Court have been successful where:\n\n\nThe court's discretion is not unlimited, as the Court of Appeal of Newfoundland and Labrador observed in 2003:\n\nOppression claims are separate from derivative actions, but the two are not mutually exclusive. However, a derivative action claim can only be instituted by leave of the court, as it is brought by a complainant to sue on behalf of the corporation for a wrong done to the corporation, and any successful claim is binding on all shareholders. This is in contrast to the oppression remedy claim, where a complainant sues on behalf of himself for a wrong he suffers personally as a result of corporate conduct.\n\nS. 234 of the \"Corporations Act 2001\" provides that the following can apply for an order seeking relief for oppressive conduct:\n\nS. 232 states that the conduct of the company's affairs, an actual or proposed act or omission by or on behalf of a company, or a resolution or proposed resolution by all, or by a class, of the shareholders, must be:\n\nin order for an application to be considered.\n\nThe oppression remedy, together with the option available for winding up a company and ASIC's use of the public interest ground in that regard, has received greater exposure and legal development since the onset of the global financial crisis.\n\n"}
{"id": "3423873", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3423873", "title": "Philip H. Lilienthal", "text": "Philip H. Lilienthal\n\nPhilip H. Lilienthal (born 1940) is an American lawyer, camp director, and philanthropist best known for his humanitarian work in Ethiopia and South Africa.\n\nLilienthal is one of two sons born to Emmy Lou (née Asch) and Howard Lilienthal, an attorney. He has one brother, Robert Lilienthal. A graduate of Amherst College in 1962, Lilienthal attended law school at the University of Virginia, receiving his J.D. in 1965. Upon graduation Lilienthal joined the Peace Corps and established Camp Langano, Ethiopia's first sleepaway summer camp. It served primarily inner city youths from Addis Ababa. In 1967, Lilienthal's Peace Corps service ended and he handed over control of Camp Langano to the YMCA, which ran it continuously until the overthrow of Ethiopian leader Haile Selassie I in 1974.\n\nIn 1974, following the unexpected death of his father Howard, Lilienthal assumed his father's position as the director of Camp Winnebago, one of Maine's most prestigious and venerable boys' summer camps. The institution, above all, instills in its campers the practice of virtuous behavior and upright character and has even coined for itself a term to describe these qualities, \"Winnebagan\".\n\nLilienthal's tenure as camp director was marked by a number of achievements, including an increase in the number of international campers and counselors, the creation and expansion of a scholarship program for underprivileged youths, and the construction of a great number of new facilities, including new tennis courts, soccer and baseball fields, volleyball and basketball courts, a hockey rink, a ropes course and a historically valuable museum on the premises. He served in the position until his retirement in 2003, when he passed control of the camp to his elder son, Andrew.\n\nNotable Alums:\n\nAfter his retirement from Winnebago, Lilienthal established Global Camps Africa, originally, WorldCamps—an organization dedicated to helping AIDS-affected youths throughout Africa. Camp Sizanani, Lilienthal's first foray with Global Camps Africa, formed in partnership with South African NGO, HIVSA, has been a major success, creating a vital support network for some of South Africa's neediest children. Lilienthal continues to work tirelessly for AIDS-affected children throughout all of Africa. In June 2013, Lilienthal was awarded the prestigious Sargent Shriver Award for Distinguished Humanitarian Service by the Peace Corps.\n\nIn 1963, he married Lynn Langman, granddaughter of investment banker Maurice Wertheim and Alma Morgenthau Wertheim, the daughter of Henry Morgenthau, Sr.\n\n"}
{"id": "39712411", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39712411", "title": "Photovoltaik Global 30 Index", "text": "Photovoltaik Global 30 Index\n\nPhotovoltaik Global 30 Index is a German stock market index which includes up to 30 companies in the photovoltaics sector. It was introduced on 1 June 2009. The constituting companies and their weightings are reviewed quarterly (March, June, September and December). No company should be represented with more than 10 per cent. The Photovoltaik Global 30 Index is calculated as a performance index as well as a price index.\n\nThe index is a top list of international companies with more than 50 percent turnover in solar energy and an average daily stock exchange turnover of more than 1 million US dollar.\n\nThe Photovoltaik Global 30 Index is based on Xetra and Reuters. Its composition and weightings (price index) is shown below:\n\n"}
{"id": "17863569", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17863569", "title": "Plastisol", "text": "Plastisol\n\nPlastisol is a suspension of PVC or other polymer particles in a liquid plasticizer; it flows as a liquid and can be poured into a heated mold. When heated to around 177 degrees Celsius, the plastic particles dissolve and the mixture turns into a gel of high viscosity that usually cannot be poured anymore. On cooling below 60 degrees C, a flexible, permanently plasticized solid product results. Aside from molding, plastisol is commonly used as a textile ink for screen-printing and as a coating, particularly in outdoor applications (roofs, furniture) and dip-coating.\n\nPlastisol is used as ink for screen-printing on to textiles. Plastisols are the most commonly used inks for printing designs on to garments, and are particularly useful for printing opaque graphics on dark fabrics.\n\nPlastisol inks are not water-soluble. The ink is composed of PVC particles suspended in a plasticizing emulsion, and will not dry if left in the screen for extended periods. Garments don't need to be washed after printing. Plastisol inks are recommended for printing on colored fabric. On lighter fabric, plastisol is extremely opaque and can retain a bright image for many years with proper care.\n\nPlastisol inks will not dry, but must be cured. Curing can be done with a flash dryer, or any oven. Most plastisols need to reach a temperature of about 180 degrees Celsius (350 Fahrenheit) for full curing. Plastisol tends to sit atop the fabric instead of soaking into the fibres, giving the print a raised, plasticized texture. Other inks can produce a softer feel.\n\nPlastisol is used for \"slush molding\" or \"slush casting\", a form of spin casting that is more complex than simple resin casting, but less expensive and less sophisticated than the injection molding used for most plastic products. It involves metal molds that are filled with liquid plastisol. When the open mold cavities are filled, the mold is spun on a high speed centrifuge to force the liquid vinyl into the fine details on the interior of the mold. Then the metal mold is placed into a heating solution, usually an industrial salt heated to about . The liquid vinyl cooks for a few seconds. The mold is then removed from the heating solution and the remaining liquid is poured out. This leaves a thin skin of vinyl on the interior of the metal mold. The mold is then placed back into the heating solution for three to four minutes to cure. After curing, the mold is again removed from the heating solution, cooled with water, and placed on a rack. While the vinyl part is still warm in the mold, it is very flexible and can be removed from the mold with pliers. When the parts cool, they become rigid and are ready for assembly.\n\nThe metal molds can produce an unlimited number of castings. Unlike the flexible molds used for resin casting, metal molds are not adversely affected by heat. The metal molds allow grouping of several parts in one mold cavity and several mold cavities in one mold for faster production.\n\nPlastisol process is used to bind polymer with metallic or metalloid agent and a liquid oxidizer, creating Electric Solid Propellant. This substance can be ignited and extinguished by electric impulse, providing pulsed rocket propulsion. With achievable pulse frequency reaching 60Hz (60 ignition/extinguishing cycles per second), thrust of such boosters can be finely controlled; combined with possible minuscule dimensions, safety and low complexity it makes them usable as RCS thrusters of nanosatellites like the CubeSat. \n\nUncured plastisol is used as polymer clay (\"Fimo\"), a variety of modelling clay.\n"}
{"id": "13830938", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13830938", "title": "Raja Mudaliar", "text": "Raja Mudaliar\n\nRaja Mudaliar or sometimes spelt Raja Mendeliar was the richest trader in Malacca during the early 16th century CE. He belonged to the Chitty community.\n\nAccording to Sejarah Melayu, Raja Mudaliar was the Syahbandar (Chief of Port) of Malacca. He was portrayed as a treacherous person who was responsible for concocting false accusation to sow distrust between Sultan Mahmud Shah and his Bendahara Tun Mutahir, resulting in the execution of Tun Mutahir and his whole family. As a result, the Sultan was antagonized and the palace split into factions, this disunity made Malacca vulnerable to the invading Portuguese.\n\n"}
{"id": "1158077", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1158077", "title": "Renaissance Center", "text": "Renaissance Center\n\nThe Renaissance Center (also known as the GM Renaissance Center and nicknamed the RenCen) is a group of seven interconnected skyscrapers in Downtown Detroit, Michigan, United States. Located on the International Riverfront, the Renaissance Center complex is owned by General Motors as its world headquarters. The central tower, the Detroit Marriott at the Renaissance Center, is the third tallest all-hotel skyscraper in the Western Hemisphere. It has been the tallest building in Michigan since it was erected in 1977.\n\nJohn Portman was the principal architect for the original design. The first phase consisted of a five tower rosette rising from a common base. Four 39-story office towers surround the 73-story hotel rising from a square-shaped podium which includes a shopping center, restaurants, brokerage firms, and banks. The first phase officially opened in March 1977. Portman's design brought renewed attention to city architecture, since it resulted in construction of the world's tallest hotel at the time. Two additional 21-story office towers (known as Tower 500 and Tower 600) opened in 1981. This type of complex has been termed a \"city within a city.\"\n\nIn 2004, General Motors completed a US$500 million renovation of the Class-A center as its world headquarters, which it had purchased in 1996. The renovation included the addition of the five-story Wintergarden atrium, which provides access to the International Riverfront. Architects for the renovation included Skidmore, Owings & Merrill, Gensler, SmithGroup, and Ghafari Associates. Work continued in and around the complex until 2005. Renaissance Center totals making it one of the world's largest commercial complexes.\n\nIn July 2015, the complex was re-branded as \"The GMRENCEN.\" Its logo was modernized and \"Reflecting a New Detroit\" was introduced as the new tagline. A photo-journalistic advertising campaign launched to shine a spotlight on the people in Detroit who make remarkable contributions to the city.\n\nConceived by Henry Ford II and financed primarily by the Ford Motor Company, the Renaissance Center became the world's largest private development with an anticipated 1971 cost of $500 million. The project was intended to revitalize the economy of Detroit. In its first year of operation it generated over $1 billion in economic growth for the downtown.\n\nIn 1970, Ford Motor Company Chairman Henry Ford II teamed up with other business leaders to form Detroit Renaissance, a private non-profit development organization, which he headed in order to stimulate building activity in the city. The group announced the first phase of construction in 1971. In addition, Detroit Renaissance contributed to a variety of other projects within the downtown area in the ensuing decades. Henry Ford II sold the concept of the RenCen to the City and community leaders. Detroit Mayor Roman Gribbs touted the project as \"a complete rebuilding from bridge to bridge,\" referring to the area between the Ambassador Bridge that connects Detroit to Windsor, Ontario and the MacArthur Bridge, which connects the city with Belle Isle Park.\n\nThe \"city within a city\" arose. The first phase of Renaissance Center opened on July 1, 1976. Principal architect John Portman was also the architect for the Westin Peachtree Plaza Hotel and the Peachtree Center in Atlanta, Georgia; the Embarcadero Center in San Francisco, California; and the Bonaventure Hotel in Los Angeles, California. For phase I, the facade of the first five towers was covered with of glass, and used about of concrete. This did not include the additional glass used for the atriums.\n\nPhase I of the Renaissance Center cost $337 million to construct, employing 7,000 workers. In 1977, the central hotel tower of the Renaissance Center opened as the Detroit Plaza Hotel, managed by Western International Hotels, to become the world's tallest all-hotel skyscraper surpassing its architectural twin, the Peachtree Plaza Hotel in Atlanta. The hotel was later renamed The Westin Hotel Renaissance Center Detroit. In 1986, it was surpassed in height by The Westin Stamford in Singapore. Since 1986, the Renaissance Center's central tower has held the distinction as the tallest all-hotel skyscraper in the Western Hemisphere. Other phases that included residences, additional office and retail space were never constructed.\n\nOn April 15, 1977, Henry Ford II and Detroit mayor Coleman Young unveiled a plaque commemorating the private investors whose funds made the project possible and, later that evening, 650 business and society leaders attended a benefit celebrating the Renaissance Center's formal dedication. The money raised from the $300-per-couple tickets went to the Detroit Symphony Orchestra. When it opened, the cylindrical central tower was originally the flagship of Westin Hotels. The top three floors of the hotel hosted an upscale restaurant, The Summit, that rotated to allow a 360 degree view. The shopping center in the podium originally housed high-end boutiques, but now contains a greater complement of restaurants in the retail mix.\n\nIn 1980, Detroit hosted the Republican National Convention and presidential nominee Ronald Reagan and former President Gerald Ford both stayed at the Renaissance Center while in attendance.\n\nThe \"city within a city\" concept was duplicated in the metropolitan area with the Southfield Town Center office complex with five inter-connected golden skyscrapers constructed from 1975 to 1989 in the suburb of Southfield. In the ensuing years, the Renaissance Center would face competition from the growing suburban office market.\n\nIn 1987, the elevated Detroit People Mover transit line began operation with a stop at the Renaissance Center. Initially, Ford Motor Company occupied a large block of space. In 1996, General Motors purchased the complex and moved its world headquarters to the Renaissance Center downtown from what is now the historic Cadillac Place state office complex in the New Center district, northwest of downtown. Before the acquisition, Sibley's Shoes had its headquarters in the center.\n\nArchitects' initial design for the Renaissance Center focused on creating secure \"interior spaces\", while its design later expanded and improved to connect with the exterior spaces and waterfront through a reconfigured interior, open glass entryways, and a Wintergarden.\nBy 2004, GM completed an extensive $500 million renovation of the Renaissance Center. This included a $100 million makeover for the hotel. Among GM's first actions was to remove the concrete berms facing Jefferson Avenue. The renovation includes a lighted glass walkway which encircles the interior mezzanine for ease of navigation, while the addition of the Wintergarden provides riverfront access and a view of Canada. A covered skyway over Jefferson Avenue connects to the Millender Center, Courtyard by Marriott - Downtown Detroit, and Coleman A. Young Municipal Center.\n\nThe Renaissance Center is owned by General Motors. The hotel in the central tower is now managed by the Marriott hotel chain and is called the Detroit Marriott at the Renaissance Center. The 1,298-room hotel is one of the largest operated by Marriott. The rooftop restaurant (which no longer revolves) received a $10 million renovation and is operated by The Epicurean Groups's Coach Insignia (closed in 2017). It served Coach wines, a product of the Fisher family whose legacy includes Fisher Body, a name which is part of GM history.\n\nThe Renaissance Center's renovation provides for the prospect of continued development and restorations throughout the city. Architectural critics have touted the city's architecture as among America's finest.\n\nIn July 2010, Blue Cross Blue Shield of Michigan announced plans to lease of Tower 500 and Tower 600 and relocate 3,000 of its employees from its building in Southfield, Michigan.\n\nIn January 2015, General Motors announced its intent to renovate much of the complex to make it more inviting as a destination for visitors to Detroit.\n\nThe Renaissance Center's modernist architecture balances the city's panoramic waterfront skyline, a frequent feature in photography taken from nearby Windsor, Ontario. From the top of the Renaissance Center's Coach Insignia restaurant (closed in 2017), patrons peer down upon the neogothic spires of One Detroit Center and city's Financial District skyscrapers and stadiums. The view from the top extends for in all directions. The University of Detroit Mercy School of Law is located just across Jefferson Avenue. A pedestrian walkway over Jefferson Avenue connects the complex to the Millender Center and leads beyond to the Coleman A. Young Municipal Center. Hart Plaza, Cobo Center (home to the North American International Auto Show) and Joe Louis Arena, former home of the Detroit Red Wings, are several blocks to the west. Comerica Park and Ford Field, venues for the Detroit Tigers and Detroit Lions, respectively, are approximately one-mile north. The US portal of the Detroit-Windsor Tunnel emerges adjacent to the western boundary of the Renaissance Center. Renaissance Center is a station on the Detroit People Mover.\n\nThe centerpiece is the 73-story 727-foot (221.5 m) luxury hotel with 1,246 rooms and 52 suites (1298 total guest rooms). Its height is measured from its main Wintergarden entrance on Atwater Street which faces the International Riverfront where the complex measures taller. Entirely owned by General Motors, the complex has of space. The main Renaissance Center complex rises from a site. The complex is designed in the Modern architectural style with glass as a main material.\n\nFamous for its cylindrical design, the central hotel tower's diameter is . A lighted glass walkway radiates the mezzanine level and encircles the base of cylindrical hotel tower for ease of navigation. This ringed glass walkway is about wide and has a circumference of approximately or about one-eighth of a mile around. The ringed walkway's diameter is approximately . It links to several other walkways in the complex. The five-story Wintergarden atrium leads into the central area which has an eight-story atrium lobby with rounded concrete balconies and terraces. Floors 71 through 73 include the Coach Insignia (closed in 2017), an upscale restaurant with a lounge area/observation floor where the view extends for over 30 miles (48.3 km). The hotel has no floor labeled 7, 8, or 13. The hotel features a major conference center with of meeting space including a Renaissance Ballroom for up to 2,200 guests with for events, one of the largest in the United States.\n\nJohn Portman designed the five-building rosette with \"interior spaces.\" In 1977, its central tower opened as the tallest hotel in the world. It remains the tallest all hotel skyscraper in the Western Hemisphere. The smaller cylinders on sides of all the towers house the elevators. The four surrounding 39-story office towers (100–400) each reach 522 feet (159 m) and have a total of of space. Each 39-story tower has a base five-story podium structure with for retail space for a total of . A portion of the central atrium area houses \"GM World\", a showcase for GM vehicles. Two 21-story towers (500–600), designed by Portman and constructed in 1981, reach 339 feet (103 m). GM gained control of Towers 500 and 600 in 2001. Tower 500 has of office space and an additional of retail space. Tower 600 has of office space and an additional of retail space.\n\nTowers 100 and 200 front Jefferson Avenue. Towers 300 and 400 are on the main Wintergarden/Atwater Street entrance facing the Riverfront. The GM Renaissance Conference Center is located on the second floor of tower 300.\n\nIn December 2001, the General Motors unveiled the \"Wintergarden\" retail atrium. Designed by Skidmore, Owings & Merrill, it rises tall at its highest point opening direct access to the International Riverfront. In addition, the five-story Wintergarden atrium area, added in 2001, has devoted to retail with of contiguous main floor exhibit space which was used by the media during Super Bowl XL.\n\nThe design is consistent with the themes of Brutalist architecture, especially in the heavy massing of concrete on the lower floors, but the 2001 renovation has softened those features.\n\nThe redevelopment project included the work of many different architects including Skidmore, Owings & Merrill of Chicago, SmithGroup of Detroit, Gensler Detroit office, and Ghafari Associates of Dearborn who did the renovation of the office towers. The majority of the construction operations were led by Turner Construction Company. The structural glass and steel for the Wintergarden, the entrance lobby as well as the mezzanine glass walkway were contributed by Mero. The cost of the renovation does not include the cost for reconfiguring the streets around the Renaissance Center or the cost of the park along the International Riverfront.\n\nThe $500 million renovation of the Renaissance Center completed in 2003 has helped improve Detroit's economy. Together, GM's renovation of the Renaissance Center and the Detroit Riverwalk exceeded $1 billion; the project constituted a substantial investment in downtown. More than 10,000 people (of whom 6,000 are GM employees) work in the complex. Nearly 2,000 state workers now occupy GM's former office building, the restored Cadillac Place, in the historic New Center district.\nThe Wintergarden added to the Renaissance Center faces the Riverfront and provides panoramic views of the Windsor skyline. The complex connects offices, the hotel, retail specialty shops, restaurants, a jazz club, and a movie theater. The theater has since closed and been converted to offices. A pedestrian-friendly glass entryway has replaced the former concrete berms along Jefferson Avenue. The redevelopment provides the \"GM World\" display of vehicles, a restored hotel, a renovated rooftop restaurant, and the addition of GM's corporate logo to crown the top of the building. Construction of the lighted glass walkway facilitates ease of navigation encircling the interior mezzanine. Hines completed redevelopment of Towers 500 and 600 for GM in 2004.\n\nThe Riverfront Promenade was dedicated on December 17, 2004, and helped to usher in a return to recreational uses along Detroit's International Riverfront. GM played a key role in the transformation of the east riverfront with a donation of $135 million to the Detroit Riverfront Conservancy for the development of a world class riverfront promenade planned at $559 million, which included $50 million from the Kresge foundation. In 2011, the Detroit Wayne County Port Authority opened its new state of the art cruise ship dock and passenger terminal on Hart Plaza, adjacent to the Renaissance Center. Port authority bonds financed another 1,500 space parking garage adjacent to the Renaissance Center. Further upriver, the Roberts Riverwalk Hotel faces the east riverfront. In addition to the gradual continuation of the riverfront promenade, other planned projects complementing the Renaissance Center continue along the International Riverfont which include development of luxury condominiums, a cruise ship passenger terminal, retail, and entertainment venues.\n\nIn 2011, the Renaissance Center added colored LED lighting on the top of its towers (Towers 500 and 600 utilize traditional blue floodlights to illuminate their top floors). General Motors added a large illuminated LED corporate logo which also displays GM divisions. The animated logo and illuminated LED color bands around the towers can be used to support special events and may be seen from Comerica Park, home of the Detroit Tigers. The renovation of Cobo Center convention and exhibit facility incorporates similar blue neon lighting along riverfront promenade.\nIn June 2015 the Ren Cen 4 Theatres theater complex announced that it was closing. With the end of Ren Cen 4, the city of Detroit has one first-run theater remaining, along with three independent theaters.\n\nIn July 2007 portions of Asian Village, a development of restaurants in Suite 2653 in the GM Center (200 Renaissance Center) with Asian cuisine offered, opened. The center was designed to evoke street food stalls within East and Southeast Asia.\n\nThe opening scenes of \"Thunder in the Skies,\" the seventh episode of the BBC science-history documentary \"Connections\" by James Burke, were visibly filmed in the then-new Renaissance Center (1978).\n\nThe Renaissance Center is featured in the film \"Action Jackson\" (1988).\n\nIn the film \"Collision Course\" starring Jay Leno and Pat Morita, the Renaissance Center is featured when Morita's character and Leno meet for the first time; Morita is considered a suspect and chased through the hotel (1989).\n\nThe 2008 crime thriller \"Killshot\" features an opening scene in which Mickey Rourke drives a blue Cadillac along Jefferson Avenue in Downtown Detroit where, in his role as hired hitman Armand Degas - nicknamed \"Blackbird\" - he enters the Marriott Hotel in the Renaissance Center to assassinate a mafia leader called \"Papa\", played by actor Hal Holbrook. \n\nThe film \"Bird on a Wire\" (starring Mel Gibson and Goldie Hawn) shot a chase scene inside the Renaissance Center (1990).\n\nThe opening scene of Renaissance Man shows Danny DeVito driving down Jefferson Avenue, late for a business meeting at the Renaissance Center, when he receives the phone call that fires him from his job. (1994).\n\nThe Renaissance Center is featured in the film \"Grosse Pointe Blank\" (1997).\n\nIn the Steven Soderbergh film adaptation of \"Out of Sight\", the main characters meet in the revolving restaurant atop the Renaissance Center. The scene was filmed on location (1998).\n\nThe Renaissance Center was featured in the Kevin Costner and Joan Allen film \"The Upside of Anger\". Costner's character plays a DJ for WRIF 101 FM, a real Detroit FM rock station, whose studio (in the film) is housed in the Renaissance Center (2004).\n\nFor the 2005 Major League Baseball All-Star Game, which was played at Comerica Park in Detroit, the center tower of the Renaissance Center was wrapped with an image of a large baseball smashing into the tower, with \"4,612 FT\" written below it to indicate the distance from home plate at Comerica Park. For Super Bowl XL, held at Detroit's Ford Field on February 5, 2006, a large National Football League logo was wrapped around the main tower just beneath the GM logo. The Renaissance Center also hosted the major media for Super Bowl XL. GM offered the Wintergarden a venue for the annual Fash Bash, a fashion event and fundraiser coordinated by the Detroit Institute of Arts.\n\nThe History Channel's \"\" \"Roads to Nowhere\" episode featured the Renaissance Center.\n\nIt was used as a primary filming location for the film \"Real Steel\", starring Hugh Jackman (2011).\n\nIn a book by Adrian Humphreys titled \"The Weasel: A Double Life in the Mob\", the former driver of Jimmy Hoffa and a mob associate Marvin \"The Weasel\" Elkind stated that Hoffa is buried in the foundations of the Renaissance Center (2011).\n\nThe series finale of \"Motor City Masters\" was filmed in the GM World exhibit in the lower level of the RenCen (2014).\n\nThe Renaissance Center was prominently featured in a scene from the movie Need for Speed (2014).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38963628", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38963628", "title": "Rudy Ulloa", "text": "Rudy Ulloa\n\nRudy Fernando Ulloa Igor (born 1 April 1960 in Puerto Natales Chile) is an Argentinian politician, figurehead, and media entrepreneur who was born in Chile of Chilean parents.\n\nUlloa was born 1 April 1960 in Puerto Natales, Chile, “a small village of fishermen with metal housing painted in primary colors.” When he was a boy, he moved with his mother, Omnia Igor; his brother, Paloma; and his stepfather, José Heriberto Sánchez, to El Carmen, a neighborhood of tin-roofed houses in Río Gallegos, Santa Cruz, Argentina. He attended the AGE School, funded by Sofía Vicic de Cepernic.\n\nWhen he was a young man helped to establish “Los Muchachos Peronistas,” a youth group that spawned many corrupt Argentinians which still exists today. At one rally he turned out \"more than 1,000 people\" in the \"Patagonian cold\" . Kirchner became Mayor of Rio Gallegos in 1987 and Governor of Santa Cruz in 1991, and appointed Ulloa to the Technical Secretariat. \n\nUlloa began publishing a newspaper called \"El Periódico\". During Kirchner’s third term as governor, Ulloa was in charge of TV channel, Channel 5 Community and Channel 2 Rio Gallegos. \nUlloa later became president of a multimedia business that included a daily newspaper, an FM radio station, a production company, and a local TV channel.\n\nIn May 2013, journalist Jorge Lanata showed that Ulloa owned a mansion in Rio Gallegos, a fleet of nine high-end cars, and other expensive property. In April 2014, Ulloa bought a $2 million farm that included a heated pool, soccer field, and a small theater. According to Clarin, at this point he already owned four houses in Rio Gallegos. In 2009, he had purchased a $700,000 mansion in Lomas de San Isidro, a $150,000 field in San Pedro, and an expensive property in the gated Pilar del Este district. The \"Clarin\" report stated that at least one source of his wealth was the income from the government’s advertising in his media properties, from which he had earned over $22 million during the “Kirchner decade.” Clarin reported that even after it folded, “El Periódico continued to receive government advertising.”\n\nIt was reported in 2013 that Ulloa had collected bribes for Nestor Kirchner from the firm San Isidro, owned by Raul \"Cacho\" Espinosa, who in return for his \"donations\" was promised fishing permits by Ulloa.\n\n"}
{"id": "13873114", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13873114", "title": "Simon Crosby", "text": "Simon Crosby\n\nSimon Crosby is Co-founder and CTO of security software vendor Bromium Inc. and was a faculty member at the University of Cambridge, UK.\n\nSimon Crosby, Ph.D., is CTO at SWIM.AI, an edge intelligence software vendor that focuses on edge-based learning for fast-data. He co-founded Bromium in 2010, and now serves as a Strategic Advisor. Previously, he served as the Chief Technology Officer of Data Center and Cloud Division at Citrix Systems. Simon founded XenSource, Inc. and held the position of Chief Technology Officer and Vice President of Strategy and Corporate Development. Prior to XenSource, he was a Principal Engineer at Intel.\n\nSimon is an Equity Partner at DCVC, serves on the board of Cambridge in America, and an investor in and advisor to numerous startups. He served as a Faculty Member at Cambridge University, UK, where he led the research on network performance and control and multimedia operating systems. Simon is the author of 35 research papers and patents on a number of data center and networking topics including security, network and server virtualization, and resource optimization and performance. \n\nHe holds a Ph.D. in computer science from the University of Cambridge, an MSc from the University of Stellenbosch, South Africa, and a BSc (Hons) degree in computer science and mathematics from the University of Cape Town, South Africa.\n\nSimon holds a PhD in Computer Science from the University of Cambridge, an MSc degree in Computer Science from the University of Stellenbosch, South Africa, and a BSc (Hons) degree in Computer Science and Mathematics from the University of Cape Town, South Africa.\n"}
{"id": "34576417", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34576417", "title": "Space Bucks", "text": "Space Bucks\n\nSpace Bucks was a space trading simulation developed by Impressions Games and published by Sierra On-Line. The game focuses on the creation of a trade empire against several computer controlled opponents. Victory is achieved through a combination of infrastructure investments, the stock market, piracy, sabotage, and of course trade goods.\n\nIn the year 2375, Humans share the galaxy with four other races, the Colikars, Tesarians, Secanii, and the Krec N'had. Your fledgling trading company, consisting of a single port and a single ship, must, by the year 2500, expand by any means necessary to become the dominant trade empire in the galaxy. Three computer opponents will be pursuing the same goal.\n\nThere are numerous mechanics for the player to utilize in order to achieve victory.\n\nShips do the heavy lifting in the game. Without ships, the goods produced at planets can't be transported and the highest level goods can't be manufactured due to a lack of the appropriate resources. At the start of the game only a few ship types are available. As the game progresses new, more advanced ship types become available.\n\nShips have several stats which determine its suitability for use. Range, Speed, Capacity, Efficiency, Drive, and Maintenance cost.\n\nPlanets generate all of the trade goods in the galaxy. These goods range from food, to passengers, to luxury goods. The higher in development a planet is, the more and the greater the variety of goods that are produced. Once the highest levels of development can be reached the most expensive, and thus profitable, goods can be manufactured.\n\nTo gain access to a planet, a bid must be made on a planet which does not already have a deal with another trade company. The player must open negotiations with such a planet and if their demands are agreed to, they will ally themselves with the players trade company. The demands include a monthly rent paid by the player, the delivery of a specified good at regular intervals, and an agreement to build a specified piece of infrastructure on the planet within a certain timeframe. The demand for monthly rent is made for every planet, with the other two demands being optional and dependent on the developmental level of the planet.\n\nPlanets have morale which can be modified by in-game factors. Investing in planetary infrastructure can often help improve the morale of a planet and ensure docking rights are not lost. Should a planet be lost to an unhappy local populace, the player must begin negotiations for docking rights again. The higher the developmental level of the planet, the more infrastructure will be needed to keep the planet happy.\n\nTrade goods include fuel, food, passengers, and exotic goods such as wine and weapons. Each race produces different high-end goods than it consumes.\n\nEach trading company has stock which can be sold on the market for an infusion of cash. Buying out the competition, by accumulating a majority of their stock, is possible. Stock can be bought and sold throughout the game, making it possible to sell lots of stock early for an early boost and then buy it back when the other companies sell off the shares they own.\n\nPirates can be hired to harass the competition. They can be paid to harass the player as well. When a pirate attacks there are only a couple of options, pay them off, try to run, or fight back. The correct action to take will depend heavily on the specific ship being threatened and the upgrades that it has been outfitted with.\n\nSabotage missions can be undertaken to hurt the competitions bottom line. Of course the competition can do the same to the player.\n\nA very basic mechanic, News Events inform the player of all the important events such as new ships, engines, or weapon systems which have become available. Sudden changes in the markets may also be announced throughout the game, giving the player the chance to make a quick profit.\n\nA reviewer for \"Next Generation\" focused on the lack of anything to do in the game besides bid for landing rights and choose cargo: \"No cut-throat strategy for undermining the competition's prices, no sabotage of trading routes, no space battles - not even the occasional price war.\" He recommended that players get \"much better\" business sims such as \"Transport Tycoon\" or \"Capitalism\" instead, and gave it 1 out of 5 stars. World Village (Gamer's Zone) wrote \"The plot was a little thin for my taste, but if reading the business section of the paper excites you, then this game would be a must for you. The main weakness that I see in this program is lack of originality. I see parts of Railroad Tycoon, Civilization, Sim City among others, as well as the obvious connection to Air bucks v1.2. Nothing wrong with recycling older programs, especially as hardware improvements allow the newer versions to make improvements on game performance. That is what happened with this game. Unfortunately, it has a rushed feeling and fails to capitalize on the improvements there were put in the game.\" \"Computer Gaming World\" said \"If you love to create ornate moving sculptures that generate endless money but do very little else interesting, then SPACE BUCKS will have some appeal for you. Set at its hardest level, the game offers two or three hours of challenge before your empire grows to the point that nothing can really harm it and you simply sit around absorbing planets from your competitors and doing more and more unwieldy upgrades to your entire fleet. Other than that, it is pretty to look at, but definitely no AIR BUCKS in Space.\" \"Computer Games Magazine\" wrote \"Dealing with manufacturing, the bank and stock market, and random events do add a few things (bowling pins and knives?), but there still aren't a lot of different things to do (as in, say, Sim City or Capitalism). Despite this, you have to watch these things very closely, and it is easy for things to go critical very quickly. At the beginner level I played (and quickly lost) four games before I'd gotten a business that was even barely stable (and I was at the bottom of the pack). Maybe I just don't have a nose for business, but my attention wasn't strongly held. Beginning business sim fans might get more out of Space Bucks than I did, but I suspect advanced gamers will want to stick with a more detailed game like Capitalism.\"\n"}
{"id": "67404", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=67404", "title": "Steven Seagal", "text": "Steven Seagal\n\nSteven Frederic Seagal (; born April 10, 1952) is an American actor, film producer, screenwriter, martial artist, and musician. \n\nSeagal was born in Lansing, Michigan. A 7th-dan black belt in aikido, he began his adult life as a martial arts instructor in Japan, becoming the first foreigner to operate an aikido dojo in the country. He later moved to Los Angeles, California, where he had the same profession. In 1988, Seagal made his acting debut in \"Above the Law\". By 1991, he had starred in four successful films. In 1992, he played Navy SEAL counter-terrorist expert Casey Ryback in \"Under Siege\". During the latter half of the 1990s, Seagal starred in three more feature films and the direct-to-video film \"The Patriot\". Subsequently, his career shifted to mostly direct-to-video productions. He has since appeared in films and reality shows, including \"\", which depicted Seagal performing his duties as a reserve deputy sheriff.\n\nSeagal is a guitarist and has released two studio albums (\"Songs from the Crystal Cave\" and \"Mojo Priest\"), and performed on the scores of several of his films. He has worked with Stevie Wonder and Tony Rebel, who both performed on his debut album. He has also been involved in a line of \"therapeutic oil\" products and energy drinks.\n\nIn addition, Seagal is known as an environmentalist, an animal rights activist, and a supporter of the 14th Dalai Lama, Tenzin Gyatso. He is also known for his outspoken political views and support of Vladimir Putin. Seagal once referred to Putin as \"one of the great living world leaders\". He was granted Russian citizenship in 2016. In 2018, he was appointed as a special envoy to the United States to improve ties with the United States. \n\nFrom 1996 to 2010, multiple women have accused Seagal of sexual harassment or assault.\n\nSteven Frederic Seagal was born in Lansing, Michigan on April 10, 1952, the son of medical technician Patricia (1930–2003) and high-school math teacher Samuel Seagal (1928–1991). His mother was of Dutch, English, and German ancestry, while his paternal grandparents were Russian Jews who immigrated to the U.S. He is also said to have Mongol heritage. When Seagal was five years old, his parents relocated to Fullerton, California. Patricia told \"People\" magazine that prior to the move, Steven was frail and suffered from asthma, saying, \"He was a puny kid back then. But he really thrived after the move [from Michigan].\" Seagal attended Buena Park High School in Buena Park, California, and Fullerton College between 1970 and 1971. As a teen, Seagal spent much time in his garage listening to loud rock music. However, it was while working with a friendly old Japanese man at a dojo in Garden Grove that Seagal was encouraged to visit Japan.\n\nSeagal moved to Japan at some point between 1971 and 1973. By 1974 he had returned to California. That year he met Miyako Fujitani, a second-degree black belt and daughter of an Osaka aikido master who had come to Los Angeles to teach aikido. When Miyako returned to Osaka, Seagal went with her. The following year they married and had a son, Kentaro, and a daughter, Ayako. He taught at the school owned by Miyako's family (though he is often stated to have been the first non-Asian to open a dojo in Japan). As of 1990, Miyako and her brother still taught there, and her mother was the chairwoman.\n\nSeagal initially returned to Taos, New Mexico, with his student (and later film stuntman) Craig Dunn, where they opened a dojo, although Seagal spent much of his time pursuing other ventures. After another period in Japan, Seagal returned to the U.S. in 1983 with senior student Haruo Matsuoka. They opened an aikido dojo, initially in North Hollywood, California, but later moved it to the city of West Hollywood. Seagal left Matsuoka in charge of the dojo, which the latter ran until the two parted ways in 1997.\n\nSeagal helped train Brazilian Mixed Martial Artist Lyoto Machida, who credited Seagal for helping him perfect the front kick that he used to knock out Randy Couture at \"UFC 129\" in May 2011.\n\nIn 1987, Seagal began work on his first film, \"Above the Law\" (titled \"Nico\" in Europe), with director Andrew Davis. Following its success, Seagal's subsequent movies were \"Hard to Kill\", \"Marked for Death\", and \"Out for Justice\"; all were box office hits, making him an action hero. Later, he achieved wider, mainstream success in 1992 with the release of \"Under Siege\" (1992), which reunited Seagal with director Andrew Davis.\n\nSeagal hosted the April 20, 1991 episode of the late night variety show \"Saturday Night Live\", which aired as the 18th episode of the 16th season. Cast member David Spade regarded Seagal as the show's worst host during Spade's time there. Spade and co-star Tim Meadows cite Seagal's humorlessness, his ill-treatment of the show's cast and writers, and his refusal to do a \"Hans and Franz\" sketch because that skit's title characters stated that they could beat up Seagal. Seagal was never invited back to the show following that episode. Meadows commented, \"He didn't realize that you can't tell somebody they're stupid on Wednesday and expect them to continue writing for you on Saturday.\" The cast and crew's difficulties with Seagal were later echoed on-air by producer Lorne Michaels during guest host Nicolas Cage's monologue in the September 26, 1992 Season 18 premiere. When Cage worried that he would do so poorly that the audience would regard him as \"the biggest jerk who's ever been on the show\", Michaels replied, \"No, no. That would be Steven Seagal.\"\n\nSeagal directed and starred in \"On Deadly Ground\" (1994), featuring Michael Caine, R. Lee Ermey, and Billy Bob Thornton in minor supporting roles. The film emphasized environmental and spiritual themes, signaling a break with his previous persona as a genre-ready inner-city cop. \"On Deadly Ground\" was poorly received by critics, especially denouncing Seagal's long environmental speech in the film. Regardless, Seagal considers it one of the most important and relevant moments in his career. Seagal followed this with a sequel to one of his most successful films, \"Under Siege\", titled \"\" (1995). In 1996, he had a role in the Kurt Russell film \"Executive Decision\", portraying a special ops soldier who only appears in the film's first 45 minutes. The same year, he filmed a cop drama \"The Glimmer Man\" (1996). In another environmentally conscious and commercially unsuccessful film, \"Fire Down Below\" (1997), he played an EPA agent fighting industrialists dumping toxic waste in the Kentucky hills. This film ended his original multi-picture contract with Warner Bros.\n\nIn 1998, Seagal made \"The Patriot\", another environmental thriller which was his first direct-to-video release in the United States (though it was released theatrically in most of the world). Seagal produced this film with his own money, and the film was shot on-location on and near his farm in Montana.\n\nAfter producing \"Prince of Central Park\", Seagal returned to cinema screens with the release of \"Exit Wounds\" in March 2001. The film had fewer martial arts scenes than Seagal's previous films, but it was a commercial success, taking almost $80 million worldwide. However, he was unable to capitalize on this success and his next two projects were both critical and commercial failures. The movie \"Ticker\", co-starring Tom Sizemore and Dennis Hopper, was filmed in San Francisco before \"Exit Wounds\", and went straight to DVD. \"Half Past Dead\", starring hip hop star Ja Rule, made less than $20 million worldwide.\n\nOther than his role as a villain in Robert Rodriguez's \"Machete\", all of the films Seagal has made since the latter half of 2001 have been released direct-to-video (DTV) in North America, with some theatrical releases to other countries around the world. Seagal is credited as a producer and sometimes a writer on many of these DTV movies, which include \"Black Dawn\", \"Belly of the Beast\", \"Out of Reach\", \"Submerged\", \"Kill Switch\", \"Urban Justice\", \"Pistol Whipped\", \"Against the Dark\", \"Driven to Kill\", \"A Dangerous Man\", \"Born to Raise Hell\", and \"The Keeper\", a movie released in Japan fifteen weeks earlier than in the United States. In 2016, Seagal starred in 7 direct-to-video movies.\n\nIn 2009, A&E Network premiered the reality television series \"\", focusing on Seagal as a deputy in Louisiana. In 2011, he produced and starred in a 13-episode television series entitled \"True Justice\". It was renewed for a second season on ReelzChannel in 2012. In the UK, \"True Justice\" has been repackaged as a series of DVD \"movies,\" with each disc editing together two episodes.\n\nMany of Seagal's films share unique elements which have become characteristic of his body of work. His characters often have an elite past affiliation with the CIA, Special Forces, or Black Ops (for example, Casey Ryback in \"Under Siege\", a former Navy SEAL, Jack Cole in \"The Glimmer Man\", an ex-CIA police detective, or Jonathan Cold in \"The Foreigner\" and \"Black Dawn\", an ex-CIA Black Ops freelancer.) His characters differ from those of other action movie icons by virtue of their near-invulnerability; they almost never face any significant physical threat, easily overpowering any opposition and never facing bodily harm or even temporary defeat. A notable exception is 2010's \"Machete\", which features Seagal in a rare villainous role.\n\nSeagal's music appears in some of his films (for example, \"Into The Sun\" and \"Ticker\", where he appears as part of a bar band), as does his fluency in other languages (he speaks Japanese in \"Into the Sun\") and religion (Buddhism features prominently in \"The Glimmer Man\" and \"Belly of the Beast\"). His past as an aikido teacher is also incorporated into several films, for example \"Above the Law\" (which opens with a montage of real-life photos from Seagal's own past) or \"Shadow Man\", where he is seen giving an aikido demonstration. Several of his films also feature prominent political messages, most notably the environmentalism evident in \"On Deadly Ground\", which ends with a lengthy speech in which Seagal (playing ex-CIA firefighter Forrest Taft) accuses big business of rampant environmental degradation: \nBig Business is primarily responsible for destroying the water we drink, the air we breathe and the food we eat. They have no care for the world they destroy, only for the money they make in the process... They basically control the legislation, and, in fact, they control the Law... They influence the media so that they can control our minds. They have made it a crime to speak out for ourselves, and if we do so we're called \"conspiracy nuts\" and we're laughed at... We have to force these companies to operate safely and responsibly, and with all our best interests in mind.\nIn 2008, author and critic Vern (no last name) published \"Seagalogy\", a work which examines Seagal's filmography using the framework of auteur theory. The book divides Seagal's filmography into different chronological \"eras\" with distinct thematic elements. The book was updated in 2012 to include more recent films and Seagal's work on the reality TV show \"\".\n\nIn addition to acting and aikido, Seagal also plays the guitar. His songs have been featured in several of his movies, including \"Fire Down Below\" and \"Ticker\". Among his extensive collection are include guitars previously owned by \"the Kings\"; Albert, BB, and Freddie, as well as Bo Diddley, Stevie Ray Vaughan, Buddy Guy, Howlin’ Wolf, Muddy Waters, and Jimi Hendrix.\n\nIn 2005, he released his first album, \"Songs from the Crystal Cave\", which has a mix of pop, world, country, and blues music. It features duets with Tony Rebel, Lt. Stichie, Lady Saw, and Stevie Wonder. The soundtrack to Seagal's 2005 film \"Into the Sun\" features several songs from the album. One of his album tracks, \"Girl It's Alright\", was also released as a single in several countries alongside an accompanying music video. Seagal's second album, titled \"Mojo Priest\", was released in April 2006. Subsequently, he spent the summer of 2006 touring the United States and Europe with his band, Thunderbox, in support of the album.\n\nSeagal has been a Reserve Deputy Chief in the Jefferson Parish, Louisiana Sheriff's Office. In the late 1980s after teaching the deputies martial arts, unarmed combat, and marksmanship, then sheriff Harry Lee (August 27, 1932 – October 1, 2007) was so impressed he asked Seagal to join the force. Seagal owns a second home in Louisiana and spends several months there each year. Seagal allegedly graduated from a police academy in Los Angeles over twenty years ago and has a certificate from Peace Officer Standards & Training (POST), an organization that accredits California police officers. However, POST officials in California and Louisiana have no record of Seagal being certified, and Seagal's rank in Louisiana is therefore ceremonial.\n\n\"\", series which follows his work in the Jefferson Parish Sheriff's Office, premiered on A&E on December 2, 2009. Seagal stated that \"I’ve decided to work with A&E on this series now because I believe it’s important to show the nation all the positive work being accomplished here in Louisiana—to see the passion and commitment that comes from the Jefferson Parish Sheriff’s Office in this post-Katrina environment.\" The series premiere drew 3.6 million viewers, ranking as best season opener for any original A&E series ever.\n\nOn April 14, 2010, the series was suspended by Jefferson Parish Sheriff Newell Normand due to a sexual trafficking lawsuit filed against Seagal. The suit was later dropped. A&E resumed the show for the second season, which began on October 6, 2010.\n\nProduction on Season 3 started in February 2011, with a change of location from Louisiana to Maricopa County, Arizona. Two episodes were scheduled to be aired, beginning on January 4, 2012. Shortly before the episodes were to be aired, Season 3 was suspended, with no explanations given. Season 3 premiered on January 2, 2014, but the show was not renewed for a fourth season. \n\nIn 2005, Seagal Enterprises began to market an energy drink known as \"Steven Seagal's Lightning Bolt\", but it has since been discontinued. Seagal has also marketed an aftershave called \"Scent of Action\", and a range of knives and weapons.\n\nIn 2013, Seagal joined newly formed Russian firearms manufacturer ORSIS, representing the company in both a promotional capacity as well as lobbying for the easement of US import restrictions on Russian sporting firearms. It was also announced he would work with the company to develop a signature long-range rifle known provisionally as \"ORSIS by Steven Seagal\".\n\nSeagal owns a dude ranch in Colorado and a home in the Mandeville Canyon section of Brentwood, a wealthy neighborhood in Los Angeles.\n\nSeagal is a Buddhist. In February 1997, Lama Penor Rinpoche from Palyul monastery announced that Seagal was a tulku, and specifically the reincarnation of Chungdrag Dorje, a 17th-century terton (treasure revealer) of the Nyingma, the oldest sect of Tibetan Buddhism. Seagal's recognition aroused controversy in the American Buddhist community, with Helen Tworkov commenting in \"\" impugning the extent of Seagal's \"spiritual wisdom\" and suggesting that Seagal bought his Buddhahood by donations to Penor's Kunzang Palyul Choling center. Penor Rinpoche responded to the controversy by saying that Seagal, although acting in violent movies, had not actually killed people, and that Seagal was merely \"recognized\", whereas \"enthronement\" as a tulku would require first a \"lengthy process of study and practice\".\n\nSeagal holds citizenships in three countries: the United States, Serbia, and Russia. Born in the US, he is an American citizen. He was granted Serbian citizenship on January 11, 2016, following several visits to the country, and has been asked to teach aikido to the Serbian Special Forces.\n\nSeagal was granted Russian citizenship on November 3, 2016; according to government spokesman Dmitry Peskov, \"He was asking quite insistently and over a lengthy period to be granted citizenship.\"\n\nWhile in Japan, Seagal married his first wife, Miyako Fujitani, the daughter of an aikido instructor. With Fujitani, he had a son, actor and model Kentaro Seagal, and a daughter, writer and actress Ayako Fujitani. Seagal left Miyako to move back to the United States.\n\nDuring this time, he met actress and model Kelly LeBrock, with whom he began an affair that led to Fujitani granting him a divorce. Seagal was briefly married to actress Adrienne La Russa in 1984, but that marriage was annulled the same year over concerns that his divorce had not yet been finalized. LeBrock gave birth to Seagal's daughter Annaliza in early 1987. Seagal and LeBrock married in September 1987 and their son Dominic was born in June 1990. Their daughter Arissa was born in 1993. The following year, LeBrock filed for divorce citing \"irreconcilable differences\".\n\nSeagal is married to Mongolian Erdenetuya Batsukh (), better known as \"Elle\". They have one son together, Kunzang. From an early age, Elle trained as a dancer at the Children's Palace in Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia. After her graduation from high school and the Children's Palace, she pursued a career as a professional dancer. She won a number of dancing contests and was considered the top female dancer in Mongolia, excelling at ballroom dancing in particular. Elle first met Seagal in 2001, when she worked as his interpreter during his visit to Mongolia.\n\nSeagal has seven children from four relationships, and two grandchildren by his eldest son, Kentaro. In addition to his biological offspring, Seagal is the guardian of Yabshi Pan Rinzinwangmo, the only child of the 10th Panchen Lama of Tibet. When she studied in the United States, Seagal was her minder and bodyguard.\n\nIn May 1991 (during the filming of \"Out for Justice\"), Warner Bros. employees Raenne Malone, Nicole Selinger, and Christine Keeve accused Seagal of sexual harassment. In return for remaining silent, Malone and another woman received around $50,000 each in an out-of-court settlement. Around the same time, at least four actresses claimed that Seagal had made sexual advances, typically during late-night \"casting sessions\".\n\nIn another incident, Jenny McCarthy claimed that Seagal asked her to undress during an audition for \"Under Siege 2\".\n\nIn 1995, Seagal was charged with employment discrimination, sexual harassment, and breach of contract. Cheryl Shuman filed a case against Seagal, accusing him of threatening and beating her during the filming of \"On Deadly Ground\". In August 1995, Los Angeles Superior Court Judge Hiroshi Fujisaki dismissed the case, calling the claims \"repetitive and unintelligible\".\n\nOn April 12, 2010, 23-year-old Kayden Nguyen filed a lawsuit against Seagal in a Los Angeles County Superior Court, requesting more than one million dollars in damages. In her suit, Nguyen alleged Seagal engaged in sexual harassment, the illegal trafficking of females for sex, failure to prevent sexual harassment, and wrongful termination. Seagal denied the allegations, but his reality show \"\" was suspended while his attorneys resolved the case. On July 14, 2010, three months after Nguyen filed her suit, she withdrew her claim without explanation.\n\nOn August 30, 2011, Jesus Sanchez Llovera filed a lawsuit against Seagal over his part in a Maricopa county police raid with heavy weapons (notably including an army surplus tank) of Llovera's residence for suspicion of cockfighting. The incident was taped for Seagal's A&E reality show, \"Steven Seagal: Lawman\". Llovera was seeking $100,000 for damages caused during the raid, and a letter of apology from Seagal to Llovera's children for the death of their family pet. Llovera claimed that his 11-month-old puppy was shot and killed during the raid. Llovera failed to file court-ordered paperwork after his attorney withdrew from the case and the lawsuit was dismissed in January 2013.\n\nIn 2017, actress Portia de Rossi accused Seagal of sexually harassing her during a movie audition. De Rossi alleged that during an audition in Seagal's office, he told her \"how important it was to have chemistry off-screen\" before unzipping his pants. On November 9, 2017, Dutch model Faviola Dadis posted a statement on her Instagram account stating that she also had been sexually assaulted by Seagal years earlier.\n\nOn January 15, 2018, actress Rachel Grant publicly made a sexual assault allegation against Seagal, claiming an incident took place in 2002, during pre-production on his direct-to-video film, \"Out for a Kill\" (2003), and that she lost her job on the film after the incident. In March 2018, Regina Simons publicly claimed that in 1993, when she was 18, Seagal raped her at his home when she arrived for what she thought was a wrap party for the movie \"On Deadly Ground.\" In February 2018, the Los Angeles County District Attorney’s office acknowledged that it was reviewing a potential sex abuse case involving Seagal.\n\nSeagal lent his voice as a narrator for an activist film project, \"Medicine Lake Video\". The project seeks to protect sacred tribal ground near Seagal's ranch in Siskiyou County. He also wrote an open letter to the leadership of Thailand in 2003, urging them to enact a law to prevent the torture of baby elephants.\n\nIn 1999, Seagal was awarded a PETA Humanitarian Award.\nIn a March 2014 interview with \"Rossiyskaya Gazeta\", Seagal described Vladimir Putin as \"one of the great living world leaders\". He stated that he \"would like to consider [Putin] as a brother\", and expressed support for the annexation of Crimea by Russia. In July 2014, following calls for a boycott, Seagal was dropped from the lineup of the August Blues Festival in Haapsalu, Estonia. Estonian musician Tõnis Mägi, the minister of Foreign Affairs, Urmas Paet, and Parliament's Foreign Affairs chairman Marko Mihkelson, had all condemned inviting Seagal into the country, with Paet stating, \"Steven Seagal has tried to actively participate in politics during the past few months and has done it in a way which is unacceptable to the majority of the world that respects democracy and the rule of law.\" In August 2014, Seagal appeared at a Night Wolves-organized show in Sevastopol, Crimea, supporting the Crimean annexation and depicting Ukraine as a country controlled by fascists. On November 3, Seagal was granted Russian citizenship by president Putin. His views on Ukraine and Russian citizenship caused Ukraine to ban him because he \"committed socially dangerous actions\".\n\nSeagal spoke out against the protests during the United States national anthem by professional athletes, stating, \"I believe in free speech, I believe that everyone’s entitled to their own opinion, but I don’t agree that they should hold the United States of America or the world hostage by taking a venue where people are tuning in to watch a football game and imposing their political views.\" He also expressed skepticism of alleged Russian interference in the 2016 United States elections.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33420208", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33420208", "title": "Stéphane Valeri", "text": "Stéphane Valeri\n\nStéphane Valeri (born March 1, 1962) is a Monegasque politician and businessman. He has served as the president of the National Council, which is the most powerfully elected position in Monaco, since 22 February 2018. He is the former Minister for Social Affairs and Health in Monaco. He served three terms as a National Councillor, and then as its president, but resigned halfway through the second term so that he could serve as a Government Minister.\n\nWhile growing up Valeri attended two high schools (Lycée Albert Prime, and Lycée Masséna), as well as the European School of Management in Berlin. Valeri previously served as executive assistant for SBM's Sales-Marketing department, but transferred a year late to the Advertising-Promotions department. Following his departure from SBM, Valeri founded Monaco-based communications group PROMOCOM. After twenty-one years as Deputy Chairman (1988-2009), Valeri resigned from his position and entered public service. Outside of politics, Valeri serves on the board of directors for the Prince Albert II of Monaco Foundation.\n\nIn 1999, Prince Rainier III awarded him with the Order of Saint-Charles. In 2012, Valeri was appointed to the French Legion of Honour. On January 25, 2013, Valeri's French country home in Peille was damaged by arsonist. Valeri filed an official complaint the following day.\n\nAfter winning the 2018 general election, Valeri once again became President of the National Council.\n\n"}
{"id": "34033545", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34033545", "title": "U.S. Business Hall of Fame", "text": "U.S. Business Hall of Fame\n\nJunior Achievement's U.S. Business Hall of Fame was established in 1975, as the result of an idea by Willard F. Rockwell, Jr. (former chairman and CEO of Rockwell International) and Alan Hilburg (assisting W. F. Rockwell as a representative of Junior Achievement). Rockwell and Hilburg approached Pat Lenahan and Charles Whittingham (publisher and associate publisher of \"Fortune\" magazine) with the idea. Together they engaged the Board of Editors of \"Fortune\" to independently select the honorees. The originating idea was to align the principles of Junior Achievement with the lives of the inductees to promote examples of what it considers exemplary business leadership.\n\nThe hall of fame is part of an exhibit at the Museum of Science and Industry in Chicago, Illinois, US.\n\nMore than 220 businesspersons have been inducted into the hall of fame.\n\n"}
{"id": "1158711", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1158711", "title": "William Fitzhugh", "text": "William Fitzhugh\n\nWilliam Fitzhugh (August 24, 1741June 6, 1809) was an American planter and statesman who served as a delegate to the Continental Congress for Virginia in 1779.\n\nFitzhugh and his wife, Ann Bolling Randolph Fitzhugh (1747–1805), built Chatham Manor on property across the Rappahannock River from Fredericksburg, Virginia, completing it in 1771 after 3 years of construction. It still stands today as the National Park Service Headquarters for the Fredericksburg and Spotsylvania National Military Park. The Fitzhughs lived a lavish life there that included experimental farming and horse racing. After the Revolutionary War, as the economy floundered, Fitzhugh sold Chatham Manor and 1,288 acres (5.2 km) to Churchill Jones for $20,000.\n\nAbout 1799, William Fitzhugh bought the house at 607 Oronoco St., Alexandria, Virginia, that has become known as \"The Boyhood Home of Robert E. Lee.\" The house was built in 1795 by John Potts, Jr. After William Fitzhugh's death, it then passed to William Henry Fitzhugh, his only son, and was rented to the Lee family.\n\nFitzhugh had built another mansion, Ravensworth, in 1796, where North Springfield, Virginia, is now located. This was his country home, with the Alexandria one being his townhouse. Ravensworth stood until about 1925, when it burned under mysterious circumstances.\n\nWilliam Fitzhugh and George Washington visited one another frequently until Washington's death in 1799, with Washington mentioning Fitzhugh in his diary and the two serving together on the Pohick Church vestry. Fitzhugh was the last person that Washington visited outside of Mount Vernon before his death in 1799.\n\nFitzhugh served in the Virginia House of Burgesses between 1772 and 1775. When that assembly was dissolved by Virginia colonial governor John Murray, 4th Earl of Dunmore, Fitzhugh continued to serve King George County, Virginia in ad hoc conventions held in Williamsburg and Richmond. He was also a member of the Revolutionary Committee of Safety in 1774-75. During the American Revolutionary War he was a commissioner of two arms and munitions factories. He served as a member of the Virginia House of Delegates in 1776–1777. He was a Virginia state senator in 1780–1787).\n\nFitzhugh was chosen as an elector for the 1789 election from Westmoreland District. That District consisted of King George County, Lancaster County, Northumberland County, Richmond County, Stafford County and Westmoreland County, which cover the area between the Rappahannock and Potomac Rivers. \nAll of the 10 electors who voted cast one of their two votes for George Washington. 5 of them cast their other vote for John Adams. 3 cast theirs for George Clinton. 1 cast his for John Hancock. 1 cast his for John Jay. In a letter written by James Madison to Thomas Jefferson on March 29, 1789, 'Mr W Fitzhugh of Chatham' is described as a Federalist \nHe was the great-grandson of English immigrant Colonel William Fitzhugh who came to Virginia in about 1671 and owned 54,000 acres (220 km²) when he died in 1701. William of Chatham inherited most of the land. As a child he suffered the loss of an eye when accidentally hit with a horse riding crop by one of his stepbrothers. His mother was Lucy Carter, daughter of Robert \"King\" Carter.\n\nIn 1804 Fitzhugh's daughter Mary Lee Fitzhugh was married in the parlor of the Alexandria townhouse to George Washington Parke Custis, grandson of Martha Dandridge Custis Washington and adopted grandson of George Washington. In 1831 their daughter, Mary Anna Randolph Custis, married Robert E. Lee.\n\nHis wife was Ann Bolling Randolph (William Randolph II and Elizabeth Beverley's granddaughter). This Randolph connection made Ann Fitzhugh cousin to Thomas Jefferson, a visitor to their home in Fredericksburg.\n\nFitzhugh died in 1809 at the age of 69, leaving behind the three of his children who survived to adulthood. He was initially buried at Ravensworth, but when the mansion was destroyed, his remains and gravestone were moved to Lorton's Pohick Church cemetery.\n\n"}
{"id": "1114703", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1114703", "title": "Work experience", "text": "Work experience\n\nWork experience is any experience that a person gains while working in a specific field or occupation, but the expression is widely used to mean a type of volunteer work that is commonly intended for young people — often students — to get a feel for professional working environments. The American equivalent term is internship.\n\nThough the placements are usually unpaid, travel and food expenses are sometimes covered, and at the end of the appointment, a character reference is usually provided. Trainees usually have the opportunity to network and make contacts among the working personnel, and put themselves forward for forthcoming opportunities for paid work.\n\nMany employers in the more sought after professions (e.g. TV, politics, journalism) demand that every new entrant undergo a period of unpaid \"work experience\" before being able to get paid work.\n\nWork experience is offered on the national curriculum for students in years 10 and 11 in the United Kingdom (3rd and 4th year in Scotland), Australia, New Zealand and the Republic of Ireland; every student who wishes to do so has a statutory right to take work experience. In 2011, however, the Wolf Review of Vocational Education proposed a significant policy change that—to reflect the fact that almost all students now stay past the age of 16—the requirement for pre-16 work experience in the UK should be removed. Work experience in this context is when students in an adult working environment more or less act as an employee, but with the emphasis on learning about the world of work. Placements are limited by safety and security restrictions, insurance cover and availability, and do not necessarily reflect eventual career choice but instead allow a broad experience of the world of work.\n\nA student who fails to find a placement may sometimes be required to attend school every day—continuing the normal school day, or doing a placement around the school such as aiding the caretaker for example, or helping out elsewhere in the school, such as with language and PE departments, or with ICT technicians.\n\nStudents are not prohibited from working at a company outside the conurbation of the city or abroad. Routine safety checks on the companies are now more thorough and students who arrange placements at failed companies are forced to find a new placement; companies that fail to comply with statutory requirements for insurance and child protection may be prohibited from officially taking students. (This depends upon the LEA.)\n\nMost students do not get paid for work experience. However, some employers pay students, as this is considered part of their education. The duration varies according to the student's course, and other personal circumstances. Most students go out on work experience for one or two weeks in a year. Some students work in a particular workplace, perhaps one or two days a week for extended periods of time throughout the year—either for vocation reasons and commitment to alternative curricula or because they have social or behavioural problems.\n\nAt university level, work experience is often offered between the second and final years of an undergraduate degree course, especially in the science, engineering and computing fields. Courses of this nature are often called \"sandwich courses\", with the work experience year itself known as the \"sandwich year\". During this time, the students on work placement have the opportunity to use the skills and knowledge gained in their first two years, and see how they are applied to real world problems. This offers them useful insights for their final year and prepares them for the job market once their course has finished. Some companies sponsor students in their final year at university with the promise of a job at the end of the course. This is an incentive for the student to perform well during the placement as it helps with two otherwise unwelcome stresses: the lack of money in the final year, and finding a job when the University course ends.\n\n\n"}
