{"id": "1113272", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1113272", "title": "Absenteeism", "text": "Absenteeism\n\nAbsenteeism is a habitual pattern of absence from a duty or obligation without good reason. Generally, absenteeism is unplanned absences. Absenteeism has been viewed as an indicator of poor individual performance, as well as a breach of an implicit contract between employee and employer. It is seen as a management problem, and framed in economic or quasi-economic terms. More recent scholarship seeks to understand absenteeism as an indicator of psychological, medical, or social adjustment to work.\n\nHigh absenteeism in the workplace may be indicative of poor morale, but absences can also be caused by workplace hazards or sick building syndrome. Measurements such as the Bradford factor, a measurement tool to analyze absenteeism which believes short, unplanned absences effect the work group more than long term absences, do not distinguish between absence for genuine illness reasons and absence for non-illness related reasons. In 2013, the UK CIPD estimated that the average worker had 7.6 absent days per year and which cost employers £595 per employee annually. Measurement methods are not exact and all encompassing, resulting in skewed results depending on variables being observed. As a result, employees can feel obliged to come to work while ill, and transmit communicable diseases to their co-workers. This leads to even greater absenteeism and reduced productivity among other workers.\n\nWork forces often excuse absenteeism caused by medical reasons if the employee provides supporting documentation from their medical practitioner. In Poland, if employees themselves, or anyone under their care including children and elders, falls ill, sick leave can be applied.\n\nThe psychological model that discusses this is the \"withdrawal model\", which assumes that absenteeism represents individual withdrawal from dissatisfying working conditions. This finds empirical support in a negative association between absence and job satisfaction, in particular, the satisfaction with the work itself. Factors attributed to absence from work can include stress, family related concerns, work culture, the employees ability to do the job, and supervisor-subordinate relationship.\n\nMedical-based understanding of absenteeism finds support in research that links absenteeism for medical reasons with mental and behavioral disorders, diseases of the digestive system, neoplasms, and diseases of the genitourinary system.This excludes pregnancy, childbirth, and puerperium. The cost of this, in euros, is 7.43 billion per year for men and 9.66 billion for females (6.7 billion euro after taking out pregnancy, childbirth, and puerperium.) Research shows that over one trillion dollars are lost annually due to productivity shortages as a result of medical-related absenteeism. The line between psychological and medical causation is blurry, given that there are positive links between both work stress and depression, and absenteeism. Depressive tendencies may lie behind some of the absence ascribed to poor physical health, as with adoption of a \"culturally approved sick role\". This places the adjective \"sickness\" before the word \"absence\", and carries a burden of more proof than is usually offered.\n\nEvidence indicates that absence is generally viewed as \"mildly deviant workplace behavior.\" For example, people tend to hold negative stereotypes of absentees, under report their own absenteeism, and believe their own attendance record is better than that of their peers. Negative attributions about absence then bring about three outcomes: the behavior is open to social control, sensitive to social context, and is a potential source of workplace conflict.\n\nOne tactic companies use to combat unplanned absences is the notion of paying back unused sick time.\n\nAbsenteeism is a habitual pattern correlated with emotional labor and personal reasoning, but there are resolutions to finding ways to alleviate the cause. Kelley, et al. (2016) says stress accounts for twelve percent of absenteeism in the workplace a year, which is a matter in which the company needs to stay in communication with the employee and work towards a solution. A great example of finding progress is forming an employee assistantship program (EAP), which is “a strategy to help workers deal with issues outside of work that employees bring to the workplace” (Quinley, 2003). This not only involves stress, but other mental health factors that employees deem worthy of attention. EAP can help those employees bring a more positive attitude to work, which can allude to the creation of a positive workplace environment.\n\nAnother matter in which employees’ absenteeism can be reduced is involving the employees’ personal matters (i.e. children at home, ill family, etc.) and the willingness of the company to be flexible. Perfect attendance is hard to accomplish in the workplace. Outside matters always play factors in absences, which can be spontaneous and uncontrollable. Flexibility is a key factor when working a balanced business, and it’s important for communication to flow effectively in the workplace.\n\nEvery company is different, and absence in the workplace should be limited. Effective communication can help in this effort to avoid problems in the workplace. Absenteeism not only affects the individual(s) work, but also the company from a group standpoint. Communication remains top priority when dealing with absenteeism. Communicating and willing to work together to achieve a common goal is a main reason that managing this pattern effectively are ways to avoid absenteeism in the workplace.\n\nPlanned absences from work include scheduled time off, retirement, and sabbaticals. These absences cause little to no disruption to work spaces because of the time given to work around the absence.\n\nUnplanned absence from work is defined as leave that is not planned or predictable. It includes sick time off, injured time off, special circumstances, and absence without permission. Unplanned absences indicate an important factor of the health of the workplace, including employee satisfaction and commitment.\n\nNearly every workplace that has a bully in charge will have elevated staff turnover and absenteeism.\n\nAccording to Thomas, there tends to be a higher level of stress with people who work or interact with a narcissist, which in turn increases absenteeism and staff turnover. Boddy finds the same dynamic where there is a corporate psychopath in the organization.\n\nWhile occasional school absenteeism may not be problematic, excessive absenteeism has shown to have a negative impact. Students with poor attendance records are found to be at a disadvantage both academically and socially. Compared to their peers, these students are more at risk of academic under-performance and early school leaving. They are also at risk of having more restricted opportunities in terms of further education and employment, and are likely to experience social and emotional problems in adulthood. Missing school can be a habit-forming behavior and can be challenging to deal with despite growing awareness of the causes of absenteeism.\n\nResearch evidence suggests that early interventions are six times more likely to be successful than those after students’ non-attendance has reached the persistent stage. Equally, there is normally one initial reason, referred to as “the trigger point”, for the students’ non-attendance. By the time students’ absences have reached the persistent stage, there are at least several more reasons used to justify the action.\n\nThere are positive and negative reinforcements regarding student absenteeism. A positive reinforcement meaning that the student will receive either more attention from their parent or guardian, or receive tangible benefits from not going to school. A negative reinforcement meaning that the student is avoiding school. Dube and Orpinas conducted a study by surveying 99 upper-elementary and middle schools, targeting students with attendance problems. Three major profiles were identified from these students. Dube and Orpinas found that 17.2 percent missed school to avoid fear, anxiety problems, or escape from social or evaluative situations; 60.6 percent missed school to gain parental attention or tangible benefits; and 22.2 percent had no profile. All three groups significantly differed in mean scores for behavioral difficulties. Children who fit within multiple profiles had the highest level of behavioral problems, and children in the no-profile group had the lowest. Children with multiple profiles had higher mean scores on frequency of victimization and total number of traumatic or stressful events than did those in the other groups.\n\nAlthough there are many theories to treating absenteeism, there is no universal treatment. There is however, a step by step process identified by Evie Bald, to manage absenteeism. This process includes identifying chronic absenteeism, identifying the reasoning behind the absences, work with families to address issues, and offer positive reinforcements if necessary.\n\n"}
{"id": "246503", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=246503", "title": "Adele Goldberg (linguist)", "text": "Adele Goldberg (linguist)\n\nAdele Eva Goldberg (born November 9, 1963) is an American linguist, best known for the Construction Grammar in the tradition of Cognitive linguistics. \n\nGoldberg's research focus is on the psychology of language, including theoretical and experimental aspects of grammar and its representation, acquisition of form-function correspondences, and syntactic priming. Her works aim to illuminate parallels between language and other cognitive processes.\n\nShe is best known for her work on \"constructions\": grammatical pairings of form and functions that are related to one another in a systematic network of learned knowledge; \"statistical preemption\": the idea that competition between grammatical constructions in context can account for the ill-formedness of certain expressions that would otherwise be licensed; the creation and development of the \"novel construction-learning paradigm\": which is akin to learning novel words with novel meanings; and the suggestion that both statistics (particularly in the form of skewed input) and the functions of constructions play an important role in learning.\n\nShe argues that the functions of constructions often help demystify traditional linguistic puzzles such as island constraints, one-anaphora, and obligatory modifiers.\n\nWith Francesca Citron, she investigates the neural processing of conventional metaphors and their physical and emotional correlates.\n\nSince 2004, she has been Professor of Psychology and Linguistics at Princeton University. From 1997-2004, she was Associate Professor of Linguistics at the Beckman Institute, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. From 1997 to 1998, she was Associate Professor of Linguistics and from 1992 to 1997 Assistant Professor of Linguistics at the University of California, San Diego.\n\nIn 1985, Goldberg received a B.A. in Mathematics and Philosophy from University of Pennsylvania. She received an M.A. in 1989 in linguistics, and in 1992 a PhD in linguistics, both from the University of California at Berkeley, studying with George Lakoff, Charles Fillmore, and Dan Slobin. Her academic family tree is here. She is married to Ali Yazdani, a professor of physics, and they have two children. Her brother is Ken Y. Goldberg, an IEOR professor at UC Berkeley.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9079529", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9079529", "title": "Airshaft", "text": "Airshaft\n\nIn manufacturing, an airshaft is a device used for handling winding reels in the processing of web-fed materials, such as continuous-process printing presses.\n\nAirshafts—also called Air Expanding shafts—are used in the manufacturing processes for fitting into a core onto which materials such as paper, card and plastic film are wound. An airshaft is designed so that, on fitting into a core, it can be readily expanded, thereby achieving a quick and firm attachment, it may also be easily deflated to facilitate easy withdrawal of the shaft after winding of product is complete. Their efficient design makes them ideal for mounting onto bearing housings to enable the winding or unwinding of rolls of stock material with the minimum of equipment down time. The advantage of using an airshaft is its ability to grip the core, without damage, whilst providing a positive interface to control the web via motors & brakes. Airshafts are available as either lug type (with bladder down the centre) or strip type (bladders on the periphery of the shaft).\n\nAir shafts are used on many converting machines. An example of one of these machines is a slitting machine or slitter rewinder which is used to cut or slit large rolls of material into smaller rollers.\n\nAir shaft is a machine part or shaft which tightens the core or roll on filling air.\nAir Shafts are of two types \n1) Contains Inflatable Rubber tube inside also called Lug shafts.\n2) Which contains bladder multiple outside also called Multi-tube Shaft .\n\nIn Multi tube Air Shafts there are small flat tubes placed outside the body of shafts which get in round shapes on filling air in it using Brass Air Valve and Lugs comes out of body and tight the core.\n\n"}
{"id": "31874252", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31874252", "title": "Amos Sutton", "text": "Amos Sutton\n\nAmos Sutton (1802 in Sevenoaks in Kent – 17 August 1854 in Cuttack, Odisha) was an English General Baptist missionary to Odisha, India, and hymn writer. He published the first English grammar of the Odia language (1831), a History (1839), and Geography (1840), then the first dictionary of Odia (1841–3), as well as a translation of the Bible (1842–5). He also composed a hymn to the tune of \"Auld Lang Syne\": \"Hail, sweetest, dearest tie, that binds\" and wrote a \"History of the mission to Orissa: the site of the temple of Juggernaut\" (1835).\n\nAt the age of 21, he was recruited by General Baptist Foreign Missionary Society for missionary service. He was trained for the ministry under J.G. Pike, founder of the Connexion's Missionary Society in Derby. After a brief period in home ministry, he was sent as a missionary to India in 1824 by Baptist Missionary Society, two years after William Bampton and James Peggs, the first two Baptist missionaries, had entered Odisha. Sutton along with his wife, Charlotte Sutton \"née\" Collins, sailed to Calcutta (now Kolkata) and joined the missionary work at station Cuttack in modern-day Odisha on 11 March 1825. Soon after their arrival to his mission station, his first wife Charlotte died in Puri due to sickness. He later married Elizabeth Coleman, an American Baptist missionary widow.\n\nThe missionary began the evangelism and recorded the first Odia conversion in 1828. By 1841, Sutton had trained three Odia evangelists at Cuttack. By 1846, when the students increased to eight, he formalised the class as the \"Cuttack Mission Academy\". By 1805, the Baptist missionary society and later Amos Sutton under the auspices of Serampore Trio — William Carey, Joshua Marshman, and William Ward—attempted to preach to Telugu-speaking people in the northernmost parts of present Andhra Pradesh — adjoining areas of Odisha such as Chicacole (present Srikakulam) and Vizagapatnam (present Vizag or Visakhapatnam). Baptist missionary attempts and Amos Sutton’s objective to evangelize Telugus failed and the missionaries didn't venture to the Telugu regions again, confining themselves to Odia-speaking districts.\n\nAs the Baptist Missionary Society was not able to support the Odisha missionary work, through his second wife he was able to get contact details of the American Free Will Baptists. Sutton contacted the Free Will Baptists Mission mentioning the great needs of Odisha and adjoining Telugu-speaking areas; accordingly, he received an invitation from the convention to visit America.\n\nSutton and his wife visited England and the United States and spent two years between 1833 and 1835 sharing their mission fields. During their visit to United States, he spoke at the seventh General conference of the Free Will Baptists in October 1833 before an audience of 3,000 people inspiring them to devote their life to the missionary service. At this conference, Jeremiah Phillips and Eli Noyes came forward to offer their service to Odia-speaking people.\n\nWhile visiting his relatives in the United States in 1835, he urged the Baptist convention in Virginia to take over the abandoned work among the Telugus; accordingly, Samuel S. Day, a Canadian-born American Baptist missionary, and E. L. Abbot, including their wives were sent by American Baptist Foreign Mission Board to the Telugu-speaking provinces along with Sutton.\n\nOn 22 September 1835, Amos Sutton, Jeremiah Phillips, Eli Noyes, Samuel S. Day, including their wives and several other missionaries sailed to India. After 136 days of sailing, they arrived Calcutta. From Calcutta, they travelled by land and joined their respective mission stations – E. L. Abbot departed to Burma, while the Day family proceeded to the Telugu-speaking provinces and arrived at Vizagapatnam – Amos Sutton, Eli Noyes, and Jeremiah Phillips proceeded to the Odia-speaking provinces and arrived at Cuttack where the British Baptist Missionaries were already working – Jeremiah Phillips and Eli Noyes dedicated their missionary service to Santals. Amos Sutton soon became the corresponding secretary of the new Free Will Baptist Missionary.\n\nSutton devoted himself to learning the local Odia language, as soon as he arrived the mission station. Sutton being a gifted translator, soon compiled an Odia grammar, and dictionary in three volumes, as well as translating a number of English books such as Pilgrim's Progress by John Bunyan – in Odia named \"Swaga Jatrira Britanta\" – and also a complete translation of the Bible. Amos Sutton's \"Introductory Grammar of Oriya language\" published in 1831, happens to be the oldest publication available in the Oriya Language Collection to date.\n\nHe published the first volume of his Odia dictionary in 1841, and the next two volumes by 1843. It was printed in the Odisha mission press at Cuttack. The Odia dictionary gives Odia meaning of Odia words with English synonyms. Sutton also prepared a dictionary named \"Sadhu Bhasharthabhidhan\", a vocabulary of current Sanskrit terms with Odia definitions which was also printed in Odisha mission press in 1844.\n\nHe published \"Dharmapustakara Adibhaya\" between 1842 and 1843. He also published the \"History Of The Mission To Orissa: The Site Of The Temple Of Juggernaut\" in 1835. In addition to Odia tracts, he published \"A Narrative of the Mission to Orissa\" in 1844, \"Orissa and its Evangelization\" in 1850, \"an autobiography, the Happy Transformation\" in 1844, and compiled \"Padarthavidyasara\" to be taught as textbook in the schools of Odisha.\n\nAs a hymn writer, he prepared the first Odia hymn book—179 of the hymns being of his own composition. He composed hymns, especially for divine worship, public, private, and social occasions. Amos Sutton's hymns appear to have been the first Protestant hymnal printed in India. On his visit to England in 1833, he composed a farewell hymn to the tune of \"Auld Lang Syne\" – \"Hail sweetest, dearest tie, that binds\". This soon became very popular and is still in common use.\n\n\n\n15. Unnavimsa Satabdiku Missionary Dr. Amos Suttonnka Dana by Dr. Smaran Kumar Nayak (The Contribution of Missionary Dr. Amos Sutton to Nineteenth Century Orissa, Published by Jagannath Ratha, Cuttack.\n16. History of the Oriya Missionary Literature by Dr. Smaran Kumar Nayak.\n17. The History of Orissa Mission Press by Dr. Smaran Kumar Nayak.\n\n"}
{"id": "40651216", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40651216", "title": "An Caighdeán Oifigiúil", "text": "An Caighdeán Oifigiúil\n\nIt was first published in 1958 by combining spelling reforms, promulgated in 1945 to 1947, with grammar standards, published in 1953. Revised editions were published in 2012 and 2017.\n\nSince 2013, the Houses of the Oireachtas Commission, through the translation department, has been responsible for periodic updates to the standard, with reviews at least once every seven years.\n\nFrom the creation of the Irish Free State in 1922, successive governments were committed to promoting the Irish language, with separate teaching materials in each of the three living vernacular dialects. Official publications were often issued with Irish translations, including the texts of all acts of the Oireachtas (parliament). The Oireachtas establish the ' (Translation Branch) for this work, which developed ad-hoc conventions to reconcile the different dialect forms and avoid favouring a single dialect in its output. When Éamon de Valera instigated a new Constitution, which was adopted in 1937, he established a committee to propose spelling reforms for the \"popular edition\" of the Irish-language text. The committee was unable to agree, but member T. F. O'Rahilly sent his notes to de Valera, who forwarded them to ', which developed a system circulated within the civil service in 1945, and revised in 1947.\n\nThe first edition was reprinted regularly between 1960 and 2004; there were minor revisions in 1960 and 1979. A revised edition was published in 2012 both online and in hardcopy. Among the changes to be found in the revised version are, for example, various attempts to bring the recommendations of the closer to the spoken dialect of Gaeltacht speakers, including allowing further use of the nominative case where the genitive would historically have been found.\n\nThe context influencing the differences between dialects has changed over time. On one hand, the shrinking of the Irish-speaking areas over the past two centuries means that where there was once a continuum of dialects from one end of the country to the other, the dialects are now each geographically isolated. On the other hand, national TV and radio stations have increased certain types of mixing between the dialects in recent decades, reducing the differences.\n\nIts development had three purposes. One was to create a standard written form that would be mutually intelligible by speakers with different dialects. Another was to simplify Irish spelling by removing many silent letters which had existed in Classical Irish. And lastly, to create a uniform and less-complicated grammar which should provide less of a hinderance to learners and thus combat the decline of the language.\n\nThe building blocks of the Caighdeán come from the three main dialects, namely Ulster Irish, Munster Irish, and Connacht Irish. Connacht Irish, which is the dialect with the most speakers, is used proportionally more than Ulster or Munster Irish. The standard is described by Mícheál Ó Siadhail as being \"to an extent based on a 'common core' of all Irish dialects, or the most frequent forms, and partly on random choice\".\n\nA side effect of simplifying the spelling was that similarity to Scottish Gaelic was reduced. For example, while pre-Caighdeán Irish had separate spellings for the three words \"bay\" (\"bádh\"), \"sympathy\" (\"báidh\"), and \"drowning\" (\"\"bádhadh\"), the Caighdeán replaced all three by \"bá\". The older forms resembled the Scottish Gaelic words \"bàgh\", \"bàidh\", and \"bàthadh\".\n\nThe Caighdeán does not recommend any pronunciation but it is affected by pronunciation because it aims to represent the all current pronunciations. So, if an \"mh\"\" is silent in Ulster and Connacht, but pronounced (as a \"v\") in Munster, then the \"\"mh\"\" is kept. This is why so many silent letters remain, despite the Caighdeán having the goal of eliminating silent letters. Letters have been removed when they are no longer pronounced in any dialect, so and replaced and . Examples also exist where preserving multiple pronunciations would have been difficult and a winner and a loser had to be picked, such as the word for \"again\" which most native speakers pronounce as but a large minority pronounce as . The Caighdeán uses the former.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2308394", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2308394", "title": "Arawan languages", "text": "Arawan languages\n\nArawan (also Arahuan, Arauan, Arawán, Arawa, Arauán) is a family of languages spoken in western Brazil (Amazonas, Acre) and Peru (Ucayali).\n\nArauan consists of half a dozen languages:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29584397", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29584397", "title": "Bajuni dialect", "text": "Bajuni dialect\n\nBajuni (\"Kibajuni\"), also known as Tikulu (\"Tikuu\"), is a variety of Swahili spoken by the Bajuni people who inhabit the tiny Bajuni Islands and coastal Kenya, in addition to parts of southern Somalia, where they constitute a minority ethnic group. Maho (2009) considers it a distinct dialect.\n\n\nhttp://www.ucs.mun.ca/~dnurse/\n"}
{"id": "44547828", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44547828", "title": "Bangladeshi English", "text": "Bangladeshi English\n\nBangladeshi English or Banglish is one of the dialects of English characteristic of Bangladesh.\n\nAn estimated 18 million Bangladeshis can use English as a second language.\n\nEducation, newspapers, business and nongovernmental organizations in English are prevalent throughout Bangladesh.\n\nEnglish is the principal language of the Bangladeshi upper judiciary, including the Bangladesh Supreme Court and the Dhaka High Court. Bengali is the sole official language, but English is often used secondarily for official purposes, especially in the judiciary. The Government of Bangladesh extensively uses English as a working language. Bangladeshi laws are written in both English and Bengali.\n\nThe territory of modern Bangladesh was the heartland of the Bengal Presidency in the British Empire.\n\nHistorically, the Bengali bhadralok class were heavily influenced by the British accent. The efforts of Sir Syed Ahmed Khan played a key role in building an English-speaking Muslim intelligentsia and middle class in Bengal. Modern Bangladeshi English is noted for its neutral accent, in comparison to other forms of Asian English, and has been influenced by the American accent. Spellings continue to be adopted from British English. English was an official language of East Pakistan. After independence, the Constitution of Bangladesh was written in both English and Bengali in 1972.\n\nHowever, successive Bangladeshi governments have converted many original English-medium universities, schools and colleges to Bengali instruction in order to spread mass education. In 1987, President Hussain Muhammad Ershad replaced English with Bengali as the language of most of the lower courts, which was reversed in 2001. In 2012, the High Court banned the use of \"Banglish\", described as a slang mixture of Bengali and English, in radio and television programs to prevent the corruption of both languages.\n\nEnglish literature in Bangladesh includes the early works of Begum Rokeya, one of the world's earliest feminist science fiction writers, and Rabindranath Tagore, whose English translation of Gitanjali won him the Nobel Prize in Literature in 1913.\n\nThe Indian numbering system is preferred for digit grouping. When written in words, or when spoken,\nnumbers less than 100,000/100 000 are expressed just as they are in Standard English. Numbers including and beyond 100,000 /\n100 000 are expressed in a subset of the South Asian numbering system.\n\nThus, the following scale is used:\n\n"}
{"id": "35247110", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35247110", "title": "Bangwinji language", "text": "Bangwinji language\n\nBangwinji is one of the Savanna languages of eastern Nigeria.\n"}
{"id": "371323", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=371323", "title": "Bihari languages", "text": "Bihari languages\n\nBihari is the western group of Eastern Indo-Aryan languages, mainly spoken in the Indian states of Bihar, Jharkhand, West Bengal and Uttar Pradesh and also in Nepal. \nDespite the large number of speakers of these languages, only Maithili has been constitutionally recognised in India, which gained constitutional status via the 92nd amendment to the Constitution of India, of 2003 (gaining assent in 2004). \nBoth Maithili and Bhojpuri have constitutional recognition in Nepal.\n\nIn Bihar, Hindi is the language used for educational and official matters. These languages were legally absorbed under the overarching label Hindi in the 1961 Census. Such state and national politics are creating conditions for language endangerments. After independence Hindi was given the sole official status through the Bihar Official Language Act, 1950. Hindi was displaced as the sole official language of Bihar in 1981, when Urdu was accorded the status of the second official language.\n\nThe number of speakers of Bihari languages is difficult to indicate because of unreliable sources. In the urban region most educated speakers of the language name Hindi as their language because this is what they use in formal contexts and believe it to be the appropriate response because of unawareness. The educated and the urban population of the region return Hindi as the generic name for their language.\n\nSome linguists dispute the inclusion of Maithili within the Bihari languages grouping, stating that it shares more similarities with neighbouring Bengali as compared to other Bihari languages.\n\n"}
{"id": "11015826", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11015826", "title": "Blu-ray", "text": "Blu-ray\n\nBlu-ray or Blu-ray Disc (BD) is a digital optical disc data storage format. It was designed to supersede the DVD format, and is capable of storing several hours of video in high-definition (HDTV 720p and 1080p) and ultra high-definition resolution (2160p). The main application of Blu-ray is as a medium for video material such as feature films and for the physical distribution of video games for the PlayStation 3, PlayStation 4, and Xbox One. The name \"Blu-ray\" refers to the blue laser (actually a violet laser) used to read the disc, which allows information to be stored at a greater density than is possible with the longer-wavelength red laser used for DVDs.\n\nThe plastic disc is in diameter and thick, the same size as DVDs and CDs. Conventional or pre-BD-XL Blu-ray discs contain 25 GB per layer, with dual-layer discs (50 GB) being the industry standard for feature-length video discs. Triple-layer discs (100 GB) and quadruple-layer discs (128 GB) are available for \"BD-XL\" re-writer drives.\n\nHigh-definition (HD) video may be stored on Blu-ray discs with up to 2160p resolution (3840×2160 pixels) and at up to 60 frames per second. DVD-Video discs were limited to a maximum resolution of 480p (NTSC, 720×480 pixels) or 576p (PAL, 720×576 pixels). Besides these hardware specifications, Blu-ray is associated with a set of multimedia formats.\n\nThe BD format was developed by the Blu-ray Disc Association, a group representing makers of consumer electronics, computer hardware, and motion pictures. Sony unveiled the first Blu-ray disc prototypes in October 2000, and the first prototype player was released in April 2003 in Japan. Afterwards, it continued to be developed until its official release on June 20, 2006, beginning the high-definition optical disc format war, where Blu-ray Disc competed with the HD DVD format. Toshiba, the main company supporting HD DVD, conceded in February 2008, and later released its own Blu-ray Disc player in late 2009. According to Media Research, high-definition software sales in the United States were slower in the first two years than DVD software sales. Blu-ray faces competition from video on demand (VOD) and the continued sale of DVDs. Notably, as of January 2016, 44% of U.S. broadband households had a Blu-ray player.\n\nThe information density of the DVD format was limited by the wavelength of the laser diodes used. Following protracted development, blue laser diodes operating at 405 nanometers became available on a production basis, allowing for development of a more-dense storage format that could hold higher-definition media. Sony started two projects in collaboration with Panasonic, Philips, and TDK, applying the new diodes: UDO (Ultra Density Optical), and DVR Blue (together with Pioneer), a format of rewritable discs that would eventually become Blu-ray Disc (more specifically, BD-RE). The core technologies of the formats are similar. The first DVR Blue prototypes were unveiled at the CEATEC exhibition in October 2000 by Sony. A trademark for the \"Blue Disc\" logo was filed February 9, 2001. On February 19, 2002, the project was officially announced as Blu-ray Disc, and Blu-ray Disc Founders was founded by the nine initial members.\n\nThe first consumer device arrived in stores on April 10, 2003: the Sony BDZ-S77, a US$3,800 BD-RE recorder that was made available only in Japan. But there was no standard for prerecorded video, and no movies were released for this player. Hollywood studios insisted that players be equipped with digital rights management before they would release movies for the new format, and they wanted a new DRM system that would be more secure than the failed Content Scramble System (CSS) used on DVDs. On October 4, 2004, the name \"Blu-ray Disc Founders\" was officially changed to the Blu-ray Disc Association (BDA), and 20th Century Fox joined the BDA's Board of Directors. The Blu-ray Disc physical specifications were completed in 2004.\n\nIn January 2005, TDK announced that they had now developed an ultra-hard yet very thin polymer coating (\"Durabis\") for Blu-ray discs; this was a significant technical advance because a far tougher protection was desired in the consumer market to protect bare discs against scratching and damage compared to DVD, while technically Blu-ray Disc required a much \"thinner\" layer for the denser and higher frequency blue laser. Cartridges, originally used for scratch protection, were no longer necessary and were scrapped. The BD-ROM specifications were finalized in early 2006.\n\nAACS LA, a consortium founded in 2004, had been developing the DRM platform that could be used to securely distribute movies to consumers. However, the final AACS standard was delayed, and then delayed again when an important member of the Blu-ray Disc group voiced concerns. At the request of the initial hardware manufacturers, including Toshiba, Pioneer, and Samsung, an interim standard was published that did not include some features, such as managed copy.\n\nThe first BD-ROM players (Samsung BD-P1000) were shipped in mid-June 2006, though HD DVD players beat them to market by a few months. The first Blu-ray Disc titles were released on June 20, 2006: \"50 First Dates\", \"The Fifth Element\", \"Hitch\", \"House of Flying Daggers\", \"\", \"xXx\" (all Sony), \"Twister\" (Warner Bros.), and MGM's \"The Terminator\". The earliest releases used MPEG-2 video compression, the same method used on standard DVDs. The first releases using the newer VC-1 and AVC formats were introduced in September 2006. The first movies using 50 GB dual-layer discs were introduced in October 2006. The first audio-only albums were released in May 2008.\n\nThe first mass-market Blu-ray Disc rewritable drive for the PC was the BWU-100A, released by Sony on July 18, 2006. It recorded both single and dual-layer BD-Rs as well as BD-REs and had a suggested retail price of US $699. , more than 2,500 Blu-ray Disc titles were available in Australia and the United Kingdom, with 3,500 in the United States and Canada. In Japan, , more than 3,300 titles have been released.\n\nThe DVD Forum, chaired by Toshiba, was split over whether to develop the more expensive blue laser technology. In March 2002 the forum approved a proposal, which was endorsed by Warner Bros. and other motion picture studios. The proposal involved compressing high-definition video onto dual-layer standard DVD-9 discs. In spite of this decision, however, the DVD Forum's Steering Committee announced in April that it was pursuing its own blue-laser high-definition video solution. In August, Toshiba and NEC announced their competing standard, Advanced Optical Disc. It was finally adopted by the DVD Forum and renamed HD DVD the next year, after being voted down twice by DVD Forum members who were also Blu-ray Disc Association members—a situation that drew preliminary investigations by the U.S. Department of Justice.\n\nHD DVD had a head start in the high-definition video market, as Blu-ray Disc sales were slow to gain market share. The first Blu-ray Disc player was perceived as expensive and buggy, and there were few titles available.\n\nThe appearance of the Sony PlayStation 3, which contained a Blu-ray Disc player for primary storage, helped support Blu-ray. Sony also ran a more thorough and influential marketing campaign for the format. AVCHD camcorders were also introduced in 2006. These recordings can be played back on many Blu-ray Disc players without re-encoding but are not compatible with HD DVD players. By January 2007, Blu-ray Discs had outsold HD DVDs, and during the first three quarters of 2007, BD outsold HD DVD by about two to one. At CES 2007, Warner proposed Total Hi Def—a hybrid disc containing Blu-ray on one side and HD DVD on the other, but it was never released.\n\nIn a June 28, 2007, press release, Twentieth Century Fox cited Blu-ray Disc's adoption of the BD+ anticopying system as key to their decision to support the Blu-ray Disc format.\nOn January 4, 2008, a day before CES 2008, Warner Bros. (the only major studio still releasing movies in both HD DVD and Blu-ray Disc format) announced that it would release only in Blu-ray Disc after May 2008. This effectively included other studios that came under the Warner umbrella, such as New Line Cinema and HBO—though in Europe, HBO distribution partner, the BBC, announced it would, while keeping an eye on market forces, continue to release product on both formats. This led to a chain reaction in the industry, with major U.S. retailers such as Best Buy, Walmart, and Circuit City and Canadian chains such as Future Shop dropping HD DVD in their stores. A then major European retailer, Woolworths, dropped HD DVD from its inventory. Netflix and Blockbuster—major DVD rental companies—said they would no longer carry HD DVD.\n\nFollowing these new developments, on February 19, 2008, Toshiba announced it would end production of HD DVD devices, allowing Blu-ray Disc to become the industry standard for high-density optical discs. Universal Studios, the sole major movie studio to back HD DVD since its inception, said shortly after Toshiba's announcement: \"While Universal values the close partnership we have shared with Toshiba, it is time to turn our focus to releasing new and catalog titles on Blu-ray Disc.\" Paramount Pictures, which started releasing movies only in HD DVD format during late 2007, also said it would start releasing in Blu-ray Disc. Both studios announced initial Blu-ray lineups in May 2008. With this, all major Hollywood studios supported Blu-ray.\n\nAccording to Media Research, high-definition software sales in the US were slower in the first two years than DVD software sales. 16.3 million DVD software units were sold in the first two years (1997–98) compared to 8.3 million high-definition software units (2006–07). One reason given for this difference was the smaller marketplace (26.5 million HDTVs in 2007 compared to 100 million SDTVs in 1998). Former HD DVD supporter Microsoft did not make a Blu-ray Disc drive for the Xbox 360. The 360's successor Xbox One features a Blu-ray drive, as does the PS4, with both supporting 3D Blu-ray after later firmware updates.\n\nShortly after the \"format war\" ended, Blu-ray Disc sales began to increase. A study by The NPD Group found that awareness of Blu-ray Disc had reached 60% of U.S. households. Nielsen VideoScan sales numbers showed that for some titles, such as 20th Century Fox's \"Hitman\", up to 14% of total disc sales were from Blu-ray, although the average Blu-ray sales for the first half of the year were only around 5%. In December 2008, the Blu-ray Disc version of \"The Dark Knight\" sold 600,000 copies on the first day of its launch in the United States, Canada, and the United Kingdom. A week after the launch, \"The Dark Knight\" BD had sold over 1.7 million copies worldwide, making it the first Blu-ray Disc title to sell over a million copies in the first week of release.\nAccording to Singulus Technologies AG, Blu-ray is being adopted faster than the DVD format was at a similar period in its development. This conclusion was based on the fact that Singulus Technologies has received orders for 21 Blu-ray dual-layer machines during the first quarter of 2008, while 17 DVD machines of this type were made in the same period in 1997. According to GfK Retail and Technology, in the first week of November 2008, sales of Blu-ray recorders surpassed DVD recorders in Japan. According to the Digital Entertainment Group, the number of Blu-ray Disc playback devices (both set-top box and game console) sold in the U.S. had reached 28.5 million by the end of 2010.\n\nBlu-ray faces competition from video on demand and from new technologies that allow access to movies on any format or device, such as Digital Entertainment Content Ecosystem or Disney's Keychest. Some commentators have suggested that renting Blu-ray will play a vital part in keeping the technology affordable while allowing it to move forward. In an effort to increase sales, studios are releasing movies in combo packs with Blu-ray Discs and DVDs as well as digital copies that can be played on computers and mobile devices. Some are released on \"flipper\" discs with Blu-ray on one side and DVD on the other. Other strategies are to release movies with the special features only on Blu-ray Discs and none on DVDs.\n\nThe Holographic Versatile Disc (HVD), described in the ECMA-377 standard, has been in development by The Holography System Development (HSD) Forum using a green writing/reading laser (532 nm) and a red positioning/addressing laser (650 nm). It is to offer MPEG-2, MPEG-4 AVC (H.264), HEVC (H.265), and VC-1 encoding, supporting a maximum storage capacity of 6TB. No systems corresponding to the Ecma International HVD standard have been released. Because the Blu-ray Disc format is upgradable it poses challenges to the adoption of the HVD format. 4K Blu-ray discs and players became available in the first quarter of 2016, having a storage capacity of up to 100 GB.\n\nAlthough the Blu-ray Disc specification has been finalized, engineers continue to work on advancing the technology. By 2005, quad-layer (128 GB) discs had been demonstrated on a drive with modified optics and standard unaltered optics. Hitachi stated that such a disc could be used to store 7 hours of 32 Mbit/s video (HDTV) or 3 hours and 30 minutes of 64 Mbit/s video (ultra-high-definition television). In August 2006, TDK announced that they had created a working experimental Blu-ray Disc capable of holding 200 GB of data on a single side, using six 33 GB data layers.\n\nAlso, behind closed doors at CES 2007, Ritek revealed that they had successfully developed a high-definition optical disc process that extends the disc capacity to ten layers, which increases the capacity of the discs to 250 GB. However, they noted that the major obstacle is that current read/write technology does not allow additional layers. JVC has developed a three-layer technology that allows putting both standard-definition DVD data and HD data on a BD/(standard) DVD combination. This would have enabled the consumer to purchase a disc that can be played on DVD players and can also reveal its HD version when played on a BD player. Japanese optical disc manufacturer Infinity announced the first \"hybrid\" Blu-ray Disc/(standard) DVD combo, to be released February 18, 2009. This disc set of the TV series \"Code Blue\" featured four hybrid discs containing a single Blu-ray Disc layer (25 GB) and two DVD layers (9 GB) on the same side of the disc.\n\nIn January 2007, Hitachi showcased a 100 GB Blu-ray Disc, consisting of four layers containing 25 GB each. Unlike TDK's and Panasonic's 100 GB discs, they claim this disc is readable on standard Blu-ray Disc drives that are currently in circulation, and it is believed that a firmware update is the only requirement to make it readable to current players and drives.\nIn December 2008, Pioneer Corporation unveiled a 400 GB Blu-ray Disc (containing 16 data layers, 25 GB each) that will be compatible with current players after a firmware update. Its planned launch was in the 2009–10 time frame for ROM and 2010–13 for rewritable discs. Ongoing development was underway to create a 1 TB Blu-ray Disc.\n\nAt CES 2009, Panasonic unveiled the DMP-B15, the first portable Blu-ray Disc player, and Sharp introduced the LC-BD60U and LC-BD80U series, the first LCD HDTVs with integrated Blu-ray Disc players. Sharp has also announced that they will sell HDTVs with integrated Blu-ray Disc recorders in the United States by the end of 2009. Set-top box recorders were not being sold in the U.S. for fear of unauthorized copying. However, personal computers with Blu-ray recorder drives were available. On January 1, 2010, Sony, in association with Panasonic, announced plans to increase the storage capacity on their Blu-ray Discs from 25 GB to 33.4 GB via a technology called i-MLSE (Maximum likelihood Sequence Estimation). The higher-capacity discs, according to Sony, would be readable on existing Blu-ray Disc players with a firmware upgrade. This technology is later used on BDXL discs.\n\nOn July 20, 2010, the research team of Sony and Japanese Tohoku University announced the joint development of a blue-violet laser, to help create Blu-ray discs with a capacity of 1 TB using only two layers (and potentially more than 1 TB with additional layering). By comparison, the first blue laser was invented in 1996, with the first prototype discs coming four years later.\n\nOn January 7, 2013, Sony announced that it would release \"Mastered in 4K\" Blu-ray Disc titles which are sourced at 4K and encoded at 1080p. \"Mastered in 4K\" Blu-ray Disc titles can be played on existing Blu-ray Disc players and have a larger color space using xvYCC. On January 14, 2013, Blu-ray Disc Association president, Andy Parsons, stated that a task force was created three months prior to conduct a study concerning an extension to the Blu-ray Disc specification that would add the ability to contain 4K Ultra HD video.\n\nOn August 5, 2015, The Blu-ray Disc Association (BDA) announced it will commence licensing the Ultra HD Blu-ray format starting August 24, 2015. The Ultra HD Blu-ray format delivered high dynamic range content that significantly expanded the range between the brightest and darkest elements, expanded color range, high frame rate (up to 60fps) and up to 3840×2160 resolution, object-based sound formats, and an optional \"digital bridge\" feature. New players were required to play this format, which were able to play both DVDs, traditional Blu-rays and the new format. New Ultra HD Blu-ray discs hold up to 66 GB and 100 GB of data on dual- and triple-layer discs, respectively.\n\nWhile a DVD uses a 650 nm red laser, Blu-ray Disc uses a 405 nm \"blue\" laser diode. Although the laser is called \"blue\", its color is actually in the violet range. The shorter wavelength can be focused to a smaller area, thus enabling it to read information recorded in pits that are less than half the size of those on a DVD, and can consequently be spaced more closely, resulting in a shorter track pitch, enabling a Blu-ray Disc to hold about five times the amount of information that can be stored on a DVD. The lasers are GaN (gallium nitride) laser diodes that produce 405 nm light directly, that is, without frequency doubling or other nonlinear optical mechanisms. Conventional DVDs use 650 nm red lasers, and CDs use 780 nm near-infrared lasers.\n\nThe minimum \"spot size\" on which a laser can be focused is limited by diffraction and depends on the wavelength of the light and the numerical aperture of the lens used to focus it. By decreasing the wavelength, increasing the numerical aperture from 0.60 to 0.85, and making the cover layer thinner to avoid unwanted optical effects, designers can cause the laser beam to focus on a smaller spot, which effectively allows more information to be stored in the same area. For Blu-ray Disc, the spot size is 580 nm. This allows a reduction of the pit size from 400 nm for DVD to 150 nm for Blu-ray Disc, and of the track pitch from 740 nm to 320 nm. See \"compact disc\" for information on optical discs' physical structure. In addition to the optical improvements, Blu-ray Discs feature improvements in data encoding that further increase the amount of content that can be stored.\n\nSince the Blu-ray Disc data layer is closer to the surface of the disc compared to the DVD standard, it was more vulnerable to scratches in early designs. The first discs were therefore housed in cartridges for protection, resembling Professional Discs introduced by Sony in 2003. Using a cartridge would increase the price of an already expensive medium, so designers chose hard-coating of the pickup surface instead. TDK was the first company to develop a working scratch-protection coating for Blu-ray Discs, naming it Durabis. In addition, both Sony's and Panasonic's replication methods include proprietary hard-coat technologies. Sony's rewritable media are spin-coated, using a scratch-resistant and antistatic coating. Verbatim's recordable and rewritable Blu-ray Discs use their own proprietary technology, called Hard Coat.\n\nThe Blu-ray Disc specification requires the testing of resistance to scratches by mechanical abrasion. In contrast, DVD media are not required to be scratch-resistant, but since development of the technology, some companies, such as Verbatim, implemented hard-coating for more expensive lines of recordable DVDs.\n\nThe table shows the speeds available. Even the lowest speed (1×) is sufficient to play and record real-time 1080p video; the higher speeds are relevant for general data storage and more sophisticated handling of video. BD discs are designed to cope with at least 5000rpm of rotational speed.\n\nThe usable data rate of a Blu-ray Disc drive can be limited by the capacity of the drive's data interface. With a USB 2.0 interface, the maximum exploitable drive speed is 288 Mbit/s or 36 MB/s (also called 8× speed). A USB 3.0 interface (with proper cabling) does not have this limitation, nor do even the oldest version of Serial ATA (SATA, 150 MB/s) nor the latest Parallel ATA (133 MB/s) standards. Blu-ray drives that are integrated into a computer (as opposed to physically separate and connected via a cable) typically have a SATA interface.\n\nPre-recorded Blu-ray Disc titles usually ship in packages similar to but slightly smaller (18.5 mm shorter and 2 mm thinner: 135 mm × 171.5 mm × 13 mm), as well as more rounded than a standard DVD keep case, generally with the format prominently displayed in a horizontal stripe across the top of the case (translucent blue for Blu-ray video discs, clear for Blu-ray 3D video releases, red for PlayStation 3 Greatest Hits Games, transparent for regular PlayStation 3 games, transparent dark blue for PlayStation 4 games, transparent green for Xbox One games and black for Ultra HD Blu-ray video releases). Warren Osborn and The Seastone Media Group, LLC created the package that was adopted worldwide following the Blu-ray versus HD DVD market adoption choice. Because of the fact that Blu-ray cases are smaller than DVD cases, more Blu-Rays than DVDs can fit on a shelf, making Blu-ray an arguably better choice for situations with limited storage space.\n\nThe \"Mini Blu-ray Disc\" (also, \"Mini-BD\" and \"Mini Blu-ray\") is a compact 8-centimetre-diameter (~3 in) variant of the Blu-ray Disc that can store 7.8 GB of data in its single layer configuration, or 15.6 GB on a dual layer disc. It is similar in concept to the MiniDVD and MiniCD. Recordable (BD-R) and rewritable (BD-RE) versions of Mini Blu-ray Disc have been developed specifically for compact camcorders and other compact recording devices.\n\n\"Blu-ray Disc recordable\" refers to two optical disc formats that can be recorded with an optical disc recorder. BD-Rs can be written to once, whereas BD-REs can be erased and re-recorded multiple times. The current practical maximum speed for Blu-ray Discs is about 12× (54 MB/s). Higher speeds of rotation (10,000+ rpm) cause too much wobble for the discs to be written properly, as with the 20× (27.7 MB/s) and 52× (7.8 MB/s) maximum speeds, respectively, of standard DVDs and CDs. Since September 2007, BD-RE is also available in the smaller 8 cm Mini Blu-ray Disc size.\n\nOn September 18, 2007, Pioneer and Mitsubishi codeveloped BD-R LTH (\"Low to High\" in groove recording), which features an organic dye recording layer that can be manufactured by modifying existing CD-R and DVD-R production equipment, significantly reducing manufacturing costs. In February 2008, Taiyo Yuden, Mitsubishi, and Maxell released the first BD-R LTH Discs, and in March 2008, Sony's PlayStation 3 officially gained the ability to use BD-R LTH Discs with the 2.20 firmware update. In May 2009 Verbatim/Mitsubishi announced the industry's first 6X BD-R LTH media, which allows recording a 25 GB disc in about 16 minutes. Unlike with the previous releases of 120 mm optical discs (i.e. CDs and standard DVDs), Blu-ray recorders hit the market almost simultaneously with Blu-ray's debut.\n\nThe BD9 format was proposed to the Blu-ray Disc Association by Warner Home Video as a cost-effective alternative to the 25/50 GB BD-ROM discs. The format was supposed to use the same codecs and program structure as Blu-ray Disc video but recorded onto less expensive 8.5 GB dual-layer DVD. This red-laser media could be manufactured on existing DVD production lines with lower costs of production than the 25/50 GB Blu-ray media.\n\nUsage of BD9 for releasing content on \"pressed\" discs never caught on. With the end of the format war, manufacturers ramped production of Blu-ray Discs and lowered prices to compete with DVDs. On the other hand, the idea of using inexpensive DVD media became popular among individual users. A lower-capacity version of this format that uses single-layer 4.7 GB DVDs has been unofficially called BD5. Both formats are being used by individuals for recording high-definition content in Blu-ray format onto recordable DVD media. Despite the fact that the BD9 format has been adopted as part of the BD-ROM basic format, none of the existing Blu-ray player models explicitly claim to be able to read it. Consequently, the discs recorded in BD9 and BD5 formats are not guaranteed to play on standard Blu-ray Disc players. AVCHD and AVCREC also use inexpensive media like DVDs, but unlike BD9 and BD5 these formats have limited interactivity, codec types, and data rates. As of March 2011, BD9 was removed as an official BD-ROM disc.\n\nThe BDXL format allows 100 GB and 128 GB write-once discs, and 100 GB rewritable discs for commercial applications. It was defined in June 2010. BD-R 3.0 Format Specification (BDXL) defined a multi-layered disc recordable in BDAV format with the speed of 2× and 4×, capable of 100/128 GB and usage of UDF2.5/2.6. BD-RE 4.0 Format Specification (BDXL) defined a multi-layered disc rewritable in BDAV with the speed of 2× and 4×, capable of 100 GB and usage of UDF2.5 as file system.\n\nThe IH-BD (Intra-Hybrid Blu-ray) format includes a 25 GB rewritable layer (BD-RE) and a 25 GB write-once layer (BD-ROM), designed to work with existing Blu-ray Discs.\n\nBlu-ray Disc specifies the use of Universal Disk Format (UDF) 2.50 as a convergent-friendly format for both PC and consumer electronics environments. It is used in the latest specifications of BD-ROM, BD-RE, and BD-R. In the first BD-RE specification (defined in 2002), the BDFS (Blu-ray Disc File System) was used. The BD-RE 1.0 specification was defined mainly for the digital recording of high-definition television (HDTV) broadcast television. The BDFS was replaced by UDF 2.50 in the second BD-RE specification in 2005, in order to enable interoperability among consumer electronics Blu-ray recorders and personal computer systems. These optical disc recording technologies enabled PC recording and playback of BD-RE. BD-R can use UDF 2.50/2.60.\n\nThe Blu-ray Disc application for recording of digital broadcasting has been developed as \"System Description Blu-ray Rewritable Disc Format part 3 Audio Visual Basic Specifications\" (BDAV). The requirements related with computer file system have been specified in \"System Description Blu-ray Rewritable Disc Format part 2 File System Specifications version 1.0\" (BDFS). Initially, the BD-RE version 1.0 (BDFS) was specifically developed for recording of digital broadcasts using the Blu-ray Disc application (BDAV application). But these requirements are superseded by the \"Blu-ray Rewritable Disc File System Specifications version 2.0\" (UDF) (a.k.a. \"RE 2.0\") and \"Blu-ray Recordable Disc File System Specifications version 1.0\" (UDF) (a.k.a. \"R 1.0\"). Additionally, a new application format, BDMV (\"System Description Blu-ray Disc Prerecorded Format part 3 Audio Visual Basic Specifications\") for High Definition Content Distribution was developed for BD-ROM. The only file system developed for BDMV is the \"System Description Blu-ray Read-Only Disc Format part 2 File System Specifications version 1.0\" (UDF) which defines the requirements for UDF 2.50.\n\n\nAll BDMV application files are stored under a \"BDMV\" directory.\n\nAudio, video, and other streams are multiplexed and stored on Blu-ray Discs in a container format based on the MPEG transport stream. It is also known as BDAV MPEG-2 transport stream and can use filename extension .m2ts. Blu-ray Disc titles authored with menus are in the BDMV (Blu-ray Disc Movie) format and contain audio, video, and other streams in BDAV container. There is also the BDAV (Blu-ray Disc Audio/Visual) format, the consumer oriented alternative to the BDMV format used for movie releases. The BDAV format is used on BD-REs and BD-Rs for audio/video recording. BDMV format was later defined also for BD-RE and BD-R (in September 2006, in the third revision of BD-RE specification and second revision of BD-R specification).\n\nBlu-ray Disc employs the MPEG transport stream recording method. That enables transport streams of digital broadcasts to be recorded as they are broadcast, without altering the format. It also enables flexible editing of a digital broadcast that is recorded as is and where the data can be edited just by rewriting the playback stream. Although it is quite natural, a function for high-speed and easy-to-use retrieval is built in. Blu-ray Disc Video use MPEG transport streams, compared to DVD's MPEG program streams. An MPEG transport stream contains one or more MPEG program streams, so this allows multiple video programs to be stored in the same file so they can be played back simultaneously (e.g. with \"picture-in-picture\" effect).\n\nThe BD-ROM specification mandates certain codec compatibilities for both hardware decoders (players) and movie software (content). Windows Media Player does not come with the codecs required to play Blu-ray discs.\n\nOriginally BD-ROMs stored video up to 1920×1080 pixel resolution at up to 60 (59.94) fields per second. Currently with UHD BD-ROM videos can be stored at a maximum of 3840×2160 pixel resolution at up to 60 (59.94) frames per second, progressively scanned. While most current Blu-ray players and recorders can read and write 1920×1080 video at the full 59.94p and 50p progressive format, new players for the UHD specifications will be able to read at 3840×2160 video at either 59.94p and 50p formats.\n\na Only supported on UltraHD Blu-Ray with HEVC video compression standard.\nb Interlaced formats are listed in fields per second.\nc MPEG-2 at 1440×1080 was previously not included in a draft version of the specification from March 2005.\nd These resolutions are stored anamorphically, i.e. they are stretched to the display aspect ratio by the player or display.\n\nFor video, all players are required to process H.262/MPEG-2 Part 2, H.264/MPEG-4 Part 10: AVC, and SMPTE VC-1. BD-ROM titles with video must store video using one of the three mandatory formats; multiple formats on a single title are allowed. Blu-ray Disc allows video with a bit depth of 8-bits per color YCbCr with 4:2:0 chroma subsampling. The choice of formats affects the producer's licensing/royalty costs as well as the title's maximum run time, due to differences in compression efficiency. Discs encoded in MPEG-2 video typically limit content producers to around two hours of high-definition content on a single-layer (25 GB) BD-ROM. The more-advanced video formats (VC-1 and MPEG-4 AVC) typically achieve a video run time twice that of MPEG-2, with comparable quality.\n\nMPEG-2 was used by many studios (including Paramount Pictures, which initially used the VC-1 format for HD DVD releases) for the first series of Blu-ray Discs, which were launched throughout 2006. Modern releases are now often encoded in either MPEG-4 AVC or VC-1, allowing film studios to place all content on one disc, reducing costs and improving ease of use. Using these formats also frees a lot of space for storage of bonus content in HD (1080i/p), as opposed to the SD (480i/p) typically used for most titles. Some studios, such as Warner Bros., have released bonus content on discs encoded in a different format than the main feature title. For example, the Blu-ray Disc release of \"Superman Returns\" uses VC-1 for the feature film and MPEG-2 for some of its bonus content. Today, Warner and other studios typically provide bonus content in the video format that matches the feature.\n\nFor audio, BD-ROM players are required to implement Dolby Digital (AC-3), DTS, and linear PCM. Players may optionally implement Dolby Digital Plus and DTS-HD High Resolution Audio as well as lossless formats Dolby TrueHD and DTS-HD Master Audio. BD-ROM titles must use one of the mandatory schemes for the primary soundtrack. A secondary audiotrack, if present, may use any of the mandatory or optional codecs.\n\nFor users recording digital television programming, the recordable Blu-ray Disc standard's initial data rate of 36 Mbit/s is more than adequate to record high-definition broadcasts from any source (IPTV, cable/satellite, or terrestrial). BD Video movies have a maximum data transfer rate of 54 Mbit/s, a maximum AV bitrate of 48 Mbit/s (for both audio and video data), and a maximum video bit rate of 40 Mbit/s. This compares to HD DVD movies, which have a maximum data transfer rate of 36 Mbit/s, a maximum AV bitrate of 30.24 Mbit/s, and a maximum video bitrate of 29.4 Mbit/s.\n\nAt the 2005 JavaOne trade show, it was announced that Sun Microsystems' Java cross-platform software environment would be included in all Blu-ray Disc players as a mandatory part of the standard. Java is used to implement interactive menus on Blu-ray Discs, as opposed to the method used on DVD-video discs. DVDs use pre-rendered MPEG segments and selectable subtitle pictures, which are considerably more primitive and rarely seamless. At the conference, Java creator James Gosling suggested that the inclusion of a Java virtual machine, as well as network connectivity in some BD devices, will allow updates to Blu-ray Discs via the Internet, adding content such as additional subtitle languages and promotional features not included on the disc at pressing time. This Java Version is called BD-J and is built on a profile of the Globally Executable MHP (GEM) standard; GEM is the worldwide version of the Multimedia Home Platform standard.\n\nThe BD-ROM specification defines four Blu-ray Disc player profiles, including an audio-only player profile (BD-Audio) that does not require video decoding or BD-J. All of the video-based player profiles (BD-Video) are required to have a full implementation of BD-J.\n\nOn November 2, 2007, the Grace Period Profile was superseded by Bonus View as the minimum profile for new BD-Video players released to the market. When Blu-ray Disc software not authored with interactive features dependent on Bonus View or BD-Live hardware capabilities is played on Profile 1.0 players, it is able to play the main feature of the disc, but some extra features may not be available or will have limited capability.\n\nThe biggest difference between Bonus View and BD-Live is that BD-Live requires the Blu-ray Disc player to have an Internet connection to access Internet-based content. BD-Live features have included Internet chats, scheduled chats with the director, Internet games, downloadable featurettes, downloadable quizzes, and downloadable movie trailers. While some Bonus View players may have an Ethernet port, it is used for firmware updates and is not used for Internet-based content. In addition, Profile 2.0 also requires more local storage in order to handle this content.\n\nProfile 1.0 players are not eligible for Bonus View or BD-Live compliant upgrades and do not have the function or capability to access these upgrades, with the exception of the latest players and the PlayStation 3. Internet is required to use.\n\nAs with the implementation of region codes for DVDs, Blu-ray Disc players sold in a specific geographical region are designed to play only discs authorized by the content provider for that region. This is intended to permit content providers (motion picture studios, television production company etc.) to enact regional price discrimination and/or exclusive content licensing. According to the Blu-ray Disc Association, all Blu-ray Disc players and Blu-ray Disc-equipped computer systems are required to enforce regional coding. However, content providers need not use region playback codes. Some current estimates suggest 70% of available [movie] Blu-ray Discs from the major studios are region-code-free and can, therefore, be played on any Blu-ray Disc player, in any region.\n\nMovie distributors have different region coding policies. Among major U.S. studios, Walt Disney Pictures, Warner Bros., Paramount Pictures, Universal Studios, and Sony Pictures have released most of their titles region-free. MGM and Lions Gate Entertainment have released a mix of region-free and region-coded titles. 20th Century Fox has released most of their titles region-coded. Vintage film restoration and distribution company The Criterion Collection uses US region coding in all Blu-ray releases.\n\nThe Blu-ray Disc region coding scheme divides the world into three regions, labeled A, B, and C.\n\nIn circumvention of region coding restrictions, stand-alone Blu-ray Disc players are sometimes modified by third parties to allow for playback of Blu-ray Discs (and DVDs) with \"any\" region code. Instructions (\"hacks\") describing how to reset the Blu-ray region counter of computer player applications to make them multi-region indefinitely are also regularly posted to video enthusiast websites and forums. Unlike DVD region codes, Blu-ray region codes are verified only by the player software, not by the optical drive's firmware.\n\nThe latest types of Blu-Ray players, suitable for UltraHD content, is region-free.\n\nThe Blu-ray Disc format employs several layers of digital rights management (DRM) which restrict the usage of the discs. This has led to extensive criticism of the format by organizations opposed to DRM, such as the Free Software Foundation, and consumers because new releases require player firmware updates to allow disc playback.\n\nBlu-ray equipment is required to implement the High-bandwidth Digital Content Protection (HDCP) system to encrypt the data sent by players to rendering devices through physical connections. This is aimed at preventing the copying of copyrighted content as it travels across cables. Through a protocol flag in the media stream called the Image Constraint Token (ICT), a Blu-ray Disc can enforce its reproduction in a lower resolution whenever a full HDCP-compliant link is not used. In order to ease the transition to high definition formats, the adoption of this protection method was postponed until 2011.\n\nThe Advanced Access Content System (AACS) is a standard for content distribution and digital rights management. It was developed by AS Licensing Administrator, LLC (AACS LA), a consortium that includes Disney, Intel, Microsoft, Panasonic, Warner Bros., IBM, Toshiba, and Sony. Since the appearance of the format on devices in 2006, several successful attacks have been made on it. The first known attack relied on the trusted client problem. In addition, decryption keys have been extracted from a weakly protected player (WinDVD). Since keys can be revoked in newer releases, this is only a temporary attack, and new keys must continually be discovered in order to decrypt the latest discs.\n\nBD+ was developed by Cryptography Research Inc. and is based on their concept of Self-Protecting Digital Content. BD+, effectively a small virtual machine embedded in authorized players, allows content providers to include executable programs on Blu-ray Discs. Such programs can:\n\nIf a playback device manufacturer finds that its devices have been hacked, it can potentially release BD+ code that detects and circumvents the vulnerability. These programs can then be included in all new content releases. The specifications of the BD+ virtual machine are available only to licensed device manufacturers. A list of licensed commercial adopters is available from the BD+ website.\n\nThe first titles using BD+ were released in October 2007. Since November 2007, versions of BD+ protection have been circumvented by various versions of the AnyDVD HD program. Other programs known to be capable of circumventing BD+ protection are DumpHD (versions 0.6 and above, along with some supporting software), MakeMKV, and two applications from DVDFab (Passkey and HD Decrypter).\n\nBD-ROM Mark is a small amount of cryptographic data that is stored separately from normal Blu-ray Disc data, aiming to prevent replication of the discs. The cryptographic data is needed to decrypt the copyrighted disc content protected by AACS. A specially licensed piece of hardware is required to insert the ROM Mark into the media during mastering. During replication, this ROM Mark is transferred together with the recorded data to the disc. In consequence, any copies of a disc made with a regular recorder will lack the ROM Mark data and will be unreadable on standard players.\n\nThe Blu-ray Disc Association recommends but does not require that Blu-ray Disc drives be capable of reading standard DVDs and CDs, for backward compatibility. Most Blu-ray Disc players are capable of reading both CDs and DVDs; however, a few of the early Blu-ray Disc players released in 2006, such as the Sony BDP-S1, could play DVDs but not CDs. In addition, Blu-ray players cannot play HD DVDs, and HD DVD players cannot play Blu-ray discs. Some Blu-ray players can also play Video CDs, and all 4K Blu-ray players can play regular Blu-ray Discs, and most can play DVDs and CDs. The PlayStation 4 does not support CDs.\n\nHigh Fidelity Pure Audio (HFPA) is a marketing initiative, spearheaded by the Universal Music Group, for audio-only Blu-ray optical discs. Launched in 2013 as a potential successor to the compact disc, it has been compared with DVD-A and SACD, which had similar aims.\n\nAVCHD was originally developed as a high definition format for consumer tapeless camcorders. Derived from the Blu-ray Disc specification, AVCHD shares a similar random access directory structure but is restricted to lower audio and video bitrates, simpler interactivity, and the use of AVC-video and Dolby AC-3 (or linear PCM) audio. Being primarily an acquisition format, AVCHD playback is not recognized by all devices that play Blu-ray Disc. Nevertheless, many such devices are capable of playing AVCHD recordings from removable media, such as DVDs, SD/SDHC memory cards, \"Memory Stick\" cards, and hard disk drives.\n\nAVCREC uses a BDAV container to record high definition content on conventional DVDs. Presently AVCREC is tightly integrated with the Japanese ISDB broadcast standard and is not marketed outside of Japan. AVCREC is used primarily in set-top digital video recorders and in this regard is comparable to HD REC.\n\nThe Blu-ray Disc Association (BDA) created a task force made up of executives from the film industry and the consumer electronics and IT sectors to help define standards for putting 3D film and 3D television content on a Blu-ray Disc. On December 17, 2009, the BDA officially announced 3D specs for Blu-ray Disc, allowing backward compatibility with current 2D Blu-ray players. The BDA has said, \"The Blu-ray 3D specification calls for encoding 3D video using the \"Stereo High\" profile defined by Multiview Video Coding (MVC), an extension to the ITU-T H.264 Advanced Video Coding (AVC) codec currently implemented by all Blu-ray Disc players. MPEG4-MVC compresses both left and right eye views with a typical 50% overhead compared to equivalent 2D content, and can provide full 1080p resolution backward compatibility with current 2D Blu-ray Disc players.\" This means the MVC (3D) stream is backward compatible with H.264/AVC (2D) stream, allowing older 2D devices and software to decode stereoscopic video streams, ignoring additional information for the second view.\n\nSony added Blu-ray 3D support to its PlayStation 3 console via a firmware upgrade on 21 September 2010. The console had previously gained 3D gaming capability via an update on 21 April 2010. Since the version 3.70 software update on August 9, 2011, the PlayStation 3 can play DTS-HD Master Audio and DTS-HD High Resolution Audio while playing 3D Blu-ray. Dolby TrueHD is used on a small minority of Blu-ray 3D releases, and bitstreaming implemented in slim PlayStation 3 models only (original \"fat\" PS3 models decode internally and send audio as LPCM). As of 2018, most major home entertainment studios, such as Walt Disney Studios, Sony Pictures, etc. have discontinued the Blu-ray 3D format in North America and other regions.\n\nUltra HD Blu-ray is a new disc format, incompatible with existing Blu-ray Disc players, that supports 60fps 4K UHD video encoded in HEVC with 10-bit HDR and a wider color gamut.\n\n"}
{"id": "371381", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=371381", "title": "Caribbean English", "text": "Caribbean English\n\nCaribbean English dialects of the English language are spoken in the Caribbean and Liberia, most countries on the Caribbean coast of Central America, and Guyana and Suriname on the coast of South America. Caribbean English is influenced by the English-based Creole varieties spoken in the region, but they are not the same. In the Caribbean, there is a great deal of variation in the way English is spoken. Scholars generally agree that although the dialects themselves vary significantly in each of these countries, they primarily have roots in British English and West African languages. Caribbean English in countries with a majority Indian population like Trinidad and Tobago and Guyana has been influenced by Hindustani and other South Asian languages in addition to British English and West African languages.\n\nThe English in daily use in the Caribbean include a different set of pronouns, typically, \"me, meh, or mi, you, yuh, he, she, it, we, wi\" or \"alawe, wunna\" or \"unu\", and \"dem\" or \"day\". \"I, mi, my, he, she, ih, it, we, wi\" or \"alawe\", \"allayu\" or \"unu\", and \"dem, den, deh\" for \"them\" with Central Americans.\n\nOther features:\n\nHowever, the English used in media, education and business and in formal or semi-formal discourse approaches the internationally understood variety of Standard English, but with an Afro-Caribbean cadence.\n\nStandard English: \"Where is that boy?\" \n\n\nThe written form of the English language in the former and current British controlled Caribbean countries conforms to the spelling and grammar styles of Britain.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33341113", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33341113", "title": "Charu Chandra Bhattacharya", "text": "Charu Chandra Bhattacharya\n\nCharu Chandra Bhattacharya (; 1883–1961) was a prominent science teacher and writer of various scientific articles mainly for children in Bengali.\n\nBhattacharya was born to Basanta Kumar Bhattacharya (father) and Menaka Devion 29 June 1883 (16 Asharh, 1290 in the Bengali calendar). His ancestral house was at Harinavi, South 24 Parganas, West Bengal, India. From childhood, he was an extraordinary student. He passed the \"Entrance Examination\" with first class from Metropolitan Institution, Calcutta in 1899. In 1901, Bhattacharya stood 12th place in the \"F. A.\" examination. He did his graduation (\"B. A.\") with an Honours from Presidency College (affiliated to the University of Calcutta at that time) in 1903 and Masters (\"M. A.\") from the University of Calcutta in 1905 in physics.\n\nHis professional career was started through the post of a \"Demonstrator\" at Physics department of Presidency College, later he joined the faculty there. Till 1940, he performed this duty for nearly 35 years. He got Jagadish Chandra Bosu as a teacher when he was a student; and Meghnad Saha, Satyendra Nath Bosu, Shishir Kumar Mitra & Prashanta Chandra Mahalnabish as students when he was a teacher of Presidency College. Another student, Pratul Chandra Gupta once told that, \"...he could explain complex matters in a very simple way.\"\n\nAll of his writings are in a simple dialect. He preferred Chalit Bhasha than Sadhu Bhasha while writing. Bhattacharya died on 26 August 1961.\n\nIn 1939, he joined in the publication department of Visva Bharati, Shantiniketan. At that time, the world was terrified by the Second World War & the department had not sufficient money. But, even in this situation, Bhattacharya dared to publish the \"Rabindra Rochonaboli\" (Collected works by Rabindranath) and finally did it with Prashanta Chandra Mahalnabish, though these books were not of much demand.\n\nLater, when Rabindranath Tagore planned to publish \"Bishwa Vidya Songroho\" and \"LokShiksha\" series of books to promote literacy, Bhattacharya performed this task. First book of LokShiksha was \"BishwaPorichoy\" by Tagore himself, which the poet dedicated to Satyendra Nath Bosu. In 1943, after two years of death of Tagore, Bhattacharya started writing more books of the Bishwa Vidya Songroho series. His first book was about the great scientist: Jagadish Chandra Bosu and named as \"Jagadish Chandrer Abishkar\" (Innovation of Jagadish) (1943). LokShiksha series consisted of 10 books, out of which 5 were of science, and out of nearly 150 books of BishwaVidyaSongroho, around 50 books were of science.\n\nPulin Bihari Sen, who was among the pioneers of Bengali publication, once told that, \n\nHe can be thought of as a successful successor to Jagadananda Roy & Ramendra Sundar Tribedi. His first book on popular science was \"Nabya Bijnan\" (Neo Science; 1918). Later, in 1926, his second book \"Ban(g)alir Khadyo\" (Food of Bengali) was published.\n\nHe had a deep connection with \"Bongiya Bijnan Parishad\", founded by Satyendra Nath Bosu. He was an active member of the first executive committee. He was elected the vice-president from 1949 to 1958, president during 1960–61. His article, \"Acharya Jagadish Chandra Bosu\" was published in the first issue of the famous magazine, \"Jnan O Bijnan\", published from the organisation. Like Visva Bharati, this organisation also had \"LokBijnan\" and \"Bijnan Probesh\" series. First book of LokBijnan series was Bhattacharya's \"Toriter Avyutthan\" in 1949. The first 4 books of the Bijnan Probesh series were also written by him: \"Praromvo\", \"PodarthoVidya\" in 3 volumes; all of these were published in 1949. On 31 December 1956, he was included in the trustee of Bongiya Bijnan Parishad.\n\nAfter the demise of Rajshekhar Bosu, he delivered the \"First Rajshekhar Bosu Memorial Lecture\", which later is published in a book entitled \"Poromanur Neucleus\" in 1962. A few more books in this context are: \"Acharya Jagadish Chandra Bosu\" (1938), \"Boijnanik Abishkarer Kahini\" (1953), \"Bishwer Upadan\" (1943), \"Byadhir Porajoy\" (1949), \"PodartoVidyar NoboJug\" (1951).\n\nIn first life, Bhattacharya edited a magazine, \"Beporoya\". Later he edited \"Bosudhara\" for a long time. \"Bhandar\", the journal of \"Samabay Samiti\" was edited by him (during the 1926–1932 years). This magazine was also edited by Tagore.\n\nBesides writing on popular science, he wrote 2 textbooks of science for classes VI & VIII of West Bengal Board of Secondary Education. Bhattacharya contributed in making Bengali terminology a lot. Calcutta University once established a committee regarding this, where Rajshekhar Bosu was the president and Bhattacharya was the secretary. He also helped the Central Government of India regarding various measurement and terminologies of science.\nHis articles are often found in many school level textbooks of literature in West Bengal.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1030853", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1030853", "title": "Choctaw language", "text": "Choctaw language\n\nThe Choctaw language, traditionally spoken by the Native American Choctaw people of the southeastern United States, is a member of the Muskogean family. Chickasaw, Choctaw and Houma form the Western branch of the Muskogean language family. Although Chickasaw is sometimes listed as a dialect of Choctaw, more extensive documentation of Chickasaw has shown that Choctaw and Chickasaw are best treated as separate but closely related languages.\n\nThe written Choctaw language is based upon the English version of the Roman alphabet and was developed in conjunction with the civilization program of the United States in the early 19th century. Although there are other variations of the Choctaw alphabet, the three most commonly seen are the Byington (Original), Byington/Swanton (Linguistic), and Modern (Mississippi Choctaw).\n\nMany publications by linguists about the Choctaw language use a slight variant of the \"modern (Mississippi Choctaw)\" orthography listed here, where long vowels are written as doubled. In the \"linguistic\" version, the acute accent shows the position of the pitch accent, rather than the length of the vowel.\n\nThe discussion of Choctaw grammar below uses the linguistic variant of the orthography.\n\nThere are three dialects of Choctaw (Mithun 1999):\n\n\nOther speakers live near Tallahassee, Florida, and with the Koasati in Louisiana, and also a few speakers live in Texas and California.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nChoctaw verbs display a wide range of inflectional and derivational morphology. In Choctaw, the category of verb may also include words that would be categorized as adjectives or quantifiers in English. Verbs may be preceded by up to three prefixes and followed by as many as five suffixes. In addition, verb roots may contain infixes that convey aspectual information.\n\nThe verbal prefixes convey information about the arguments of the verb: how many there are and their person and number features. The prefixes can be divided into three sorts: agreement markers, applicative markers, and anaphors (reflexives and reciprocals). The prefixes occur in the following order: agreement-anaphor-applicative-verb stem.\n\nThe agreement affixes are shown in the following chart. All are prefixes except \"-li\", a suffix.\n\nI, II, and III are neutral labels for the three person marking paradigms. Some authors (Ulrich 1986, Davies, 1986) have called them actor–patient–dative or nominative–accusative–dative.\n\nThe 1sg I agreement marker is /-li/, the only suffix among the agreement markers. It is discussed in this section along with the other agreement markers.\n\nI, II, and III agreement are conditioned by various kinds of arguments. Transitive active verbs show the most predictable pattern. With a typical transitive active verb, the subject will take I agreement, the direct object will take II agreement, and the indirect object will take III agreement.\n\nAs the chart above shows, there is no person-number agreement for third person arguments. Consider the following paradigms:\n\nWhen a transitive verb occurs with more than one agreement prefix, I prefixes precede II and III prefixes:\n\nIntransitive verbs show more complicated patterns of agreement. For intransitive verbs, the subjects of active verbs typically trigger I agreement, the subjects of stative verbs typically trigger II agreement, and III agreement is found with the subjects of some psychological verbs.\n\nThis type of morphology is generally referred to as active–stative.\n\nThe set of agreement markers labelled N above is used with negatives. Negation is multiply marked, requiring that an agreement marker from the N set replace the ordinary I agreement, the verb appear in the lengthened grade (see discussion below), and that the suffix /-o(k)-/ follow the verb, with deletion of the preceding final vowel. The optional suffix /-kii/ may be added after /-o(k)-/. Consider the following example:\n\nCompare this with the affirmative counterpart:\n\nTo make this example negative, the 1sI suffix /-li/ is replaced by the 1sN prefix /ak-/; the verb root \"iya\" is lengthened and accented to yield \"íiya\"; the suffix /-o/ is added, the final vowel of \"iiya\" is deleted, and the suffix /-kii/ is added.\n\nReflexives are indicated with the /ili-/ prefix, and reciprocals with /itti-/:\n\nThe following examples show modal and tense suffixes like /-aachii̱/ 'irrealis'(approximately equal to future), /-tok/ 'past tense', /-h/ 'default tenses':\n\nThere are also suffixes that show evidentiality, or the source of evidence for a statement, as in the following pair:\n\nThere are also suffixes of illocutionary force which may indicate that the sentence is a question, an exclamation, or a command:\n\nChoctaw verb stems have various infixes that indicate their aspect. These stem variants are traditionally referred to as 'grades'. The table below shows the grades of Choctaw, along with their main usage.\n\nSome examples that show the grades follow:\n\nIn this example the l-grade appears because of the suffixes /-na/ 'different subject' and /-o(k)/ 'negative':\n\nThe g-grade and y-grade typically get translated into English as \"finally VERB-ed\":\n\nThe hn-grade is usually translated as 'kept on VERBing':\n\nThe h-grade is usually translated \"just VERB-ed\" or \"VERB-ed for a short time\":\n\nNouns have prefixes that show agreement with a possessor. Agreement markers from class II are used on a lexically specified closed class of nouns, which includes many (but not all) of the kinship terms and body parts. This is the class that is generally labeled inalienable.\n\nNouns that are not lexically specified for II agreement use the III agreement markers:\n\nAlthough systems of this type are generally described with the terms alienable and inalienable, this terminology is not particularly appropriate for Choctaw, since alienability implies a semantic distinction between types of nouns. The morphological distinction between nouns taking II agreement and III agreement in Choctaw only partly coincides with the semantic notion of alienability.\n\nChoctaw nouns can be followed by various determiner and case-marking suffixes, as in the following examples, where we see\ndeterminers such as /-ma/ 'that', /-pa/ 'this', and /-akoo/ 'contrast' and case-markers /-(y)at/ 'nominative' and /-(y)a̱/ 'accusative':\n\nThe last example shows that nasalizing the last vowel of the preceding N is a common way to show the accusative case.\n\nWhen there is an overt subject, it is obligatorily marked with the nominative case /-at/. Subjects precede the verb\n\nWhen there is an overt object, it is optionally marked with the accusative case /-a̱/\n\nThe Choctaw sentence is normally verb-final, and so the head of the sentence is last.\n\nSome other phrases in Choctaw also have their head at the end. Possessors precede the possessed noun in the Noun Phrase:\n\nChoctaw has postpositional phrases with the postposition after its object:\n\nSome common Choctaw phrases (written in the \"Modern\" orthography):\n\n\nOther Choctaw words:\n\n\nCounting to twenty:\n\n\nAt \" \"Native Nashville\" \" web , there is an Online Choctaw Language Tutor, with Pronunciation Guide and four lessons: Small Talk, Animals, Food and Numbers.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26257502", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26257502", "title": "Discontinuous-constituent phrase structure grammar", "text": "Discontinuous-constituent phrase structure grammar\n\nDiscontinuous-constituent Phrase Structure Grammar (DCPSG) (distinct from Discontinuous Phrase Structure Grammar/DPSG) is a formalism for describing discontinuous phrase structures in natural language, such as verb phrases in VSO languages. The formalism was introduced in the slightly more constrained form of Discontinuous-constituent Phrase Structure Grammar with Subscripts and Deletes (DCPSGsd) in Harman (1963). DCPSGs describe a superset of the context-free languages, by means of rewrite rules that permit a limited amount of wrapping, similar to that found in Head grammar.\n\nRe\"write rules of a DCPSG are identical to those of a CFG, with the addition of a meta-symbol, denoted here as an underscore. \"DCPSG\" rules therefore have the general form formula_1 where formula_2 is a string of terminal symbols and/or non-terminal symbols and at most one underscore.\n\nThe rewrite semantics of DCPSG are identical as those of a CFG when the rule being used does not contain an underscore: given a rule formula_1, an occurrence of formula_4 may be rewritten as formula_2.\n\nFor rules with an underscore, the rewrite semantics are slightly different: given a rule formula_6, an occurrence of formula_4 can be rewritten as formula_2, with formula_9 being inserted immediately after the next non-terminal that is introduced at the same time. Using strict left-most productions, formula_9 is simply inserted immediately after the non-terminal that follows formula_4 prior to the rewrite.\n\nWe can characterize the gross sentence structure of a VSO language such as Irish with the following rules (substituting English words for Irish words, and using subscripts solely for demonstration of discontinuity):\n\nA derivation for the sentence \"saw John Susan\", where \"John\" is the subject, and \"Susan\" is the direct object forming a VP with \"saw\" is:\n"}
{"id": "2206623", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2206623", "title": "English-speaking Quebecers", "text": "English-speaking Quebecers\n\nEnglish-speaking Quebecers (also known as Anglo-Quebecers, English Quebecers, or Anglophone Quebecers, all with the optional spelling Quebeckers; in French \"Anglo-Québécois\", \"Québécois Anglophone\", or simply \"Anglo\") refers to the English-speaking (anglophone) minority of the primarily French-speaking (francophone) province of Quebec, Canada. The English-speaking community in Quebec constitutes an official linguistic minority population under Canadian law.\n\nEnglish-speaking Quebeckers have origins in England, Ireland, Scotland, Australia, New Zealand; in other words, from English-speaking countries with similar religions such as Catholic or Protestant with large emigration with Canadian provinces, an early and strong English language education program in Quebec schools, and waves of international immigration. This makes estimating the population difficult. According to the 2011 Canadian census, 599,225 (7.7% of population, including 4% Italian Canadian) in Quebec declare English as a mother tongue.\n\nMore ambiguous are the 834,950 (10.7%) that use mostly English as their home language, and 1,058,250 (13.5%) that comprise the Canadian Official Language Minority, having English as their First Official Canadian language spoken.\n\nStatistics Canada uses census data to keep track of minority language communities in Canada. It has recorded \"mother tongue\" (the first language learned as a child and still spoken) since 1921, \"home language\" (language spoken at home) since 1971, and \"first official language learned\" (English or French) since 1991. In addition, conversational knowledge of English and French is documented.\n\nA considerable number of census respondents in each category cite equal proficiency, knowledge, and use of different languages. In this case, census respondents are divided evenly among the language groups involved.\n\nAs allophone immigrants (mother tongue other than English or French) generally arrive with knowledge of either English or French and eventually integrate into these two linguistic groups, \"first official language learned\" is used to determine the Official Language minority population. It is used by the federal government and Quebec anglophone community organizations to determine the demand for minority language services. Specifically, it classifies members of immigrant groups who learn English before French as English-speaking. Half of the people equally proficient since childhood in both English and French are placed into each linguistic community.\n\nThe English-speaking population has shown an accelerated decline in population between 1971 and 2001. During this interval, the number of mother tongue anglophones has decreased from 788,830 to 591,365 representing a drop in its share of the Quebec population from 13.1% to 8.3%. This is attributed primarily to an exodus of anglophones to other provinces and raised questions about the sustainability of the community.\n\nImmigration from other countries and integration of allophones helped to partially alleviate the impact of this trend. In 2001, one in three immigrants to Quebec was English-speaking and settled in Montreal. This made the decrease in home-language anglophones less pronounced, particularly in the Montreal area. This situation is rapidly changing as the vast majority of immigrants now adopt French as their first language: three quarters of linguistic transfers of allophones arriving between 2001 and 2006 allophones arriving have been towards French instead of English.\n\nThe 2006 census showed an increase of the Anglophone population in Quebec. The rise of 16,000 people (from 591,000 in 2001 to 607,000 in 2006) represents a growth rate of +2.7%, which is higher than that for the Francophone population (+2.0%) for the same period. This increase is attributed to a much reduced net outmigration of Anglophones, with some 34,000 departures vs 26,000 arrivals (primarily from Ontario).\n\nEmigration to other Canadian provinces was perceived as the biggest challenge facing the continued presence of English-language communities in Quebec, particularly outside Montreal, during the 1976 to 2001 period. English-speakers accounted for half the out-migrants from Quebec as they are extremely mobile compared to their francophone neighbours because they share a language and cultural identity with most other Canadians and North Americans. In a survey on the matter, English-speaking Quebecers cited limited economic prospects and politics (Quebec's language policies and the Quebec independence) as primary reasons for leaving. These political factors are also cited as having led to fewer Canadians from other provinces settling in Quebec.\n\nAnglophones are also less likely to migrate within the province than Francophones and Allophones. This is due to a strong sense of belonging among those in the Montreal area, the relative lack of English-language services and institutions outside Montreal, and a weak sense of identification with Quebec.\n\nDespite a lull in this outflux during an economic boom and break from separatist governments in 2003, this outmigration had returned to established levels by 2006 and is projected to continue at these rates over the next five years. At the time, this forecast made researcher Jack Jedwab predict a continued long term decline of the community.\n\nA large proportion of Quebec's English-speaking population resides in or near Montreal. Most reside on the Island of Montreal, particularly in the West Island and in the western half of Montreal's urban core, where there is a network of English language educational, social, cultural, economic, and medical institutions.\n\nThe earliest English-speaking Quebecers arrived in Montreal at the beginning of the British regime in the second half of the 18th century. American merchants, United Empire Loyalists and Anglo-Scot Protestants founded Quebec's public and private English-language institutions and would represent Quebec's elite merchant and financial classes up until the 1960s; the heritage of this era remains in neighbourhoods such as Westmount and the Golden Square Mile.\n\nIrish Quebecers established their schools, churches and hospitals in the mid-19th century in traditionally working-class neighbourhoods such as Point St. Charles and Griffintown. Separate English-language confessional (Protestant and Catholic) school systems emerged and would be guaranteed in the British North America Act in 1867 thanks to D'Arcy McGee, a prominent Irish Montrealer. In 2000, these school boards were merged into English boards.\n\nAn English-speaking Black Canadian community grew in the 1860s with the coming of the railway industry centred in Montreal, settling in Little Burgundy and Saint-Henri.\n\nThe early 1900s brought waves of settlers from all over Europe. Jews from Poland, Romania and Russia established a large Jewish community, and integrated into the English-speaking \"Protestant\" schools and businesses. Italian immigrants would adopt the Catholic institutions of either the Irish or French-Canadian community. These and many other immigrant communities would initially settle along Saint Lawrence Boulevard (nicknamed \"The Main\"), before moving on to more prosperous suburbs such as Côte Saint-Luc and Saint-Léonard.\nIn the 1950s, more immigration from Europe again changed the face of Montreal. Immigrants flocked to Montreal from all across Europe, bolstering the numbers of established cultural communities, with a Greek community planting strong roots in the English-speaking community.\n\nImmigrants of today come from all over the world and are largely more secular than members of the established English-speaking communities. Also, a larger proportion are French-speaking than before. However, immigrants from English-speaking countries such as Britain, the United States, and Jamaica usually come with a knowledge of English; Asians account for the fastest growing segment of the population, with over 26,000 Asians coming to Quebec between 1996 and 2001 and having English as their first official language spoken in 2001; as a result, over a quarter of anglophones now come from visible minority groups. Some First nation peoples such as the Mohawk, the Cree, and Inuit also use English in their day-to-day lives. These groups blend in easily in a community that defines itself increasingly as multicultural and bilingual. Its large diversity, mobility and access to mainstream North American society means that most anglophones in Quebec will identify themselves as Canadian or by their cultural group, and identify as \"anglophone\" only in the context of Quebec's French-speaking majority.\n\nMany American and Anglo-Scottish merchants settled in Quebec City in the nineteenth century, but the majority of anglophones were working-class Irish immigrants. In the 1860s, the proportion of English-speakers reached a historic high of 40%. The population gradually dwindled as Montreal replaced Quebec City as a center of commerce and industry. English-speakers now represent 1.9% of the total population in the Quebec metropolitan area. The Morrin Centre is a cultural hub for Quebec City's English-speaking community, linked together by media institutions such as the \"Quebec Chronicle-Telegraph\", CBC Radio One (CBVE-FM). in Quebec City, and the \"La Maison Anglaise\" bookstore \n\nAll English-speaking communities outside the Montreal metropolitan area have been in decline for over a century. However, communities near Montreal, the border with Ontario, and the border with the United States are still large enough to constitute a sizeable yet shrinking minority in these regions.\n\nIn the late 18th century and the early 19th century, the Eastern Townships and the Chateauguay Valley were pioneered by English-speaking settlers who moved north from the United States; the first were Loyalists (Tories in the U.S.) wishing to remain British subjects after The American Revolution. Very few of these Loyalists were allowed to stay in the Eastern Townships and were in fact forced by the British to move from the lands that they were squatting on because the British desired to keep the Eastern Townships as an unpopulated buffer zone between the French Canadians and the Americans. By the end of the 1790s, American homesteaders were allowed to come northward to settle lands across the border. Immigrants from England, Scotland, and Ireland would further settle these regions in the mid 19th century, and pioneer the Outaouais region (Gatineau and Pontiac region) and many Laurentian communities. By the end of the nineteenth century, many grew into thriving small cities: Shawville, Aylmer, Hull, Lachute, Huntingdon, St. Johns (now Saint-Jean-sur-Richelieu), Granby, Saint-Hyacinthe, Victoriaville, Drummondville, Magog, Sherbrooke, Sawyerville. Migration to larger cities in Canada (including Montreal) has since reduced the English-speaking population in these regions.\n\nThere has been English-speaking settlement or immigration to some degree in almost all areas of Quebec at one time or another. What remains today in many regions is only symbolic as anglophones have moved away or assimilated into the French-speaking community. English-speaking communities in the Gaspé Peninsula and the Lower North Shore remain, as well as a small community in the Magdalen Islands.\n\nEnglish-language media tend to come from outside the province. Most local English-language media are based in the Montreal area.\n\nThe province's English-language television stations are CBMT (CBC), CFCF (CTV), CKMI (Global) and CJNT (Citytv). These stations are available on cable throughout the province and can also be received for free with the use of home TV antennas in cities located near television transmission towers.\n\nAnglophones in the Outaouais region are served by English stations from Ottawa. Southern Quebec is also served by American network affiliates from Vermont and New York's North Country who actually depend on the Montreal market for most of their revenue. The Burlington, VT stations are WCAX (CBS), WVNY (ABC), WFFF-TV (Fox), and Vermont Public Television (PBS). The Plattsburgh, NY stations are WPTZ (NBC) and WCFE (PBS). These stations are carried on Montreal-area cable networks, along with other English and French-language cable stations. (See Multichannel television in Canada.) Western Montreal carries more English-language programming to better serve the large English-speaking market.\n\nEnglish-language radio stations in Montreal include AM stations CKGM (sports), CJAD (news/talk) and CINW (\"oldies\"), and FM outlets CBME (CBC Radio One), CKUT (campus radio from McGill University), CFQR (\"Q92\", adult contemporary), CJFM (\"Virgin Radio 96\", Hot AC), CBM (CBC Radio 2) and CHOM (mainstream rock). Listeners in Sherbrooke, Lennoxville and the Eastern Townships are served by CBC Radio One and CBC Radio 2 and the Bishop's University station CJMQ. CBC Radio One is also available in many other Quebec communities. Parts of the province also receive English-language signals from Ontario, New Brunswick, New York or New England. However, no community in the province besides Montreal has an English commercial station.\n\nQuebec has two English-language daily newspapers: the large \"Montreal Gazette\", and the small \"Sherbrooke Record\", a local newspaper for the Eastern Townships. Many smaller communities in Quebec also have English-language weekly papers, including \"The Equity\" in Shawville, \"The Pontiac Journal\", a bilingual and bimonthly paper, the \"Stanstead Journal\" in Stanstead, \"The First Informer\" in the Magdalen Islands, \"The Gleaner\" in Huntingdon, the \"Quebec Chronicle-Telegraph\" in Quebec City, \"SPEC\" in the Gaspé region, the \"West Quebec Post\" in Buckingham, the \"Aylmer Bulletin\" in Aylmer, the \"Townships Sun\" in Lennoxville, the \"Suburban, Montreal Island's Largest English Weekly\", the \"Chronicle\" and the \"West End Times\" in the West Island of Montreal and \"The LowDown to Hull and Back News\" in La Pêche. From the 1990s until 2012, Montreal also had two English alternative weeklies, \"Hour\" and \"Mirror\".\n\n\"Maisonneuve\" is a culturally literate bimonthly general-interest English-language magazine published in Montreal.\n\nThe politics of language has always played against issues of Quebec nationalism and Quebec separatism. English-speaking Quebeckers maintain a strong Canadian identity, with about 99% opposing Quebec sovereignty in 1980 and 1995 referendums. Having no distinct political representation in Quebec, they tend to vote for the federalist Liberal Party of Canada federally and for the Quebec Liberal Party at the provincial level. In 2001, English-speaking Quebeckers viewed provincial language legislation as the principal challenge facing their community and more generally look to the federal government to protect their individual and collective rights from provincial government limits on access to English education, health care, government services, and visibility on public signs.\n\nThe Canadian constitution protects the language rights of English-speaking communities and individuals in Quebec; however, since 1867, the Quebec provincial government has had full jurisdiction over schools, with only Section 93 of the British North America Act of 1867 (Constitution Act, 1867) guaranteeing Protestant confessional boards the right to administer most English schools. Section 133 still allows French and English to be used in the Parliament of Canada and the Legislature of Quebec and makes both languages mandatory for the laws, records, and journals of those houses. It also gives any person the right to plead in either English or French in any of the Courts of Quebec. In 1982, Section 23 of the Constitution Act, 1982 guaranteed the right of Canadian citizens educated in English in Canada to attend English schools. This paved the way for the Constitutional Amendment, 1999 (Québec) which was passed unanimously by the federal Parliament and the National Assembly of Quebec that transformed Protestant confessional school boards into English linguistic school boards. The federal government also maintains the Official Languages Act of 1988 that ensures equality between English and French in the federal civil service and ensures that official minority language groups in Canada receive service in their language where numbers warrant and that supports the development of communities of speakers of official languages when they constitute a minority in a province or territory.\n\nProvincial legislation has also delimited the language rights of English-speaking Quebeckers and the role of their institutions since the Quiet Revolution as French-speaking Québécois sought to improve their economic prospects, assimilate immigrants into their community to maintain their population, and establish French as a language of business. Bill 63, introduced by the Union nationale government in 1969, required that English schools provide all students with a working knowledge of French. In 1974, the Liberal government of Robert Bourassa passed Bill 22 and restricted access to English schools to children who could pass a language test. In 1977, the separatist Parti Québécois passed the more intensive Charter of the French Language (Bill 101). This law made French the sole language of the civil service and of business in private workplaces with over 50 employees and established the right of all Quebeckers to work solely in French, now the sole official language of the province; it also favoured a demographic shift towards more francophones in Quebec by restricting access to English-language schools to children whose parents had attended Quebec English grade schools or high schools. The Charter is generally seen as emancipatory and a protector of culture and is immensely popular among majority francophone Quebeckers.\n\nOther Charter provisions, though, deeply alienated English-speaking Quebeckers. The Charter cut off access to English schools to all but children who had parents who had received their education in English in Quebec. The Charter also eliminated the Constitutional guarantee to English legal proceedings and eliminated English translations of Quebec laws. It banned all languages other than French on all public signs, both inside and outside. (The regulations for signs would be modified in 1988 and 1993.) The law has therefore polarised Quebec along linguistic lines to this day. Legal challenges by English-speaking Quebeckers using provisions of the Canadian constitution and international law overturned some of these provisions, forcing subsequent Quebec governments to blunt these Charter provisions many times.\n\nThe Charter coupled with the looming 1980 Referendum on Sovereignty triggered an exodus of English-speaking Quebeckers between 1976 and 1980, exacerbating the already existing demographic decline. Head offices that employed anglophones moved mostly to Toronto, taking their employees with them. Structural unemployment in the private sector with the mass hiring of francophones in an expanding civil service limited the economic opportunities of especially young non-bilingual anglophones in Quebec leading them to search for work elsewhere. Young highly educated anglophones, despite high rates of bilingualism and increased contact and openness to francophones, cite limited economic prospects caused by linguistic discrimination and an unsatisfactory political climate as the major factors in their departure. By 2001, 50% of mother-tongue anglophones had left the province.\n\nFaced with increasing marginalisation from the political process in Quebec, English-speaking community groups across the province banded together to form Alliance Quebec, a provincial lobby group that would advocate for English-language education, health, and social services. It was supported by the federal Commissioner of Official Languages and members worked with provincial administrations to maintain and increase access to English government services across the province.\n\nSign laws governing language are a particular irritant to English-speaking Quebeckers. When the original Charter provision requiring French only on commercial signs and in trade names was struck down by the Supreme Court in 1988, the Liberal government of Robert Bourassa passed Bill 178 that made French the only language that could be used on outdoor commercial signs. This required invoking the notwithstanding clause in the Canadian Constitution, which overrode the Supreme Court decision. Discontent with the Liberals led anglophones in Western Montreal to form the Equality Party in protest, which surprised many by electing 4 candidates in the 1989 provincial election. Anglophone Quebeckers would take the case to the \"Human Rights Committee of the United Nations\", which in 1993 found that the laws banning the commercial display of languages other than French constituted a violation of the right to freedom of expression. As the sign law would have to be renewed in 1993, the Liberal government passed a law that mandated French on signs. As recommended by the Supreme Court, this law allowed other languages on the sign, as long as French was predominant. Although this law stands up to Supreme Court challenges, many anglophones refer to the inspectorate that enforces the law as \"tongue troopers\" and \"language cops\".\n\nRegardless of legally recognised rights, the practice in long-established institutions has often been to provide more service than what rights alone would dictate. On the other hand, a long-term trend toward providing even less service than what rights call for has been observed, especially in cases when the service-providing entity is newly created; the only recourse is often to sue for redress.\n\nIn addition to the rights guaranteed by the constitution of Canada, the various regulations outside the Charter recognise other linguistic rights of Quebec anglophones. Quebeckers have the right to receive services in English from all public health care and social service institutions in Quebec, although there is considerable controversy as to whether this is in fact the case as they often don't. The charter also permits bilingual status to cities, but only those with a majority of English mother-tongue residents; other cities are not required to provide services in English but usually do if a significant minority of the population is English-speaking. Ninety-three municipalities offer bilingual services in Quebec.\n\nIn 2002, Quebec's French Language Charter was amended with \"Bill 104\", which aims to prevent education received in fully private English schools or through temporary certificates from producing constitutional education rights. Several court cases are still pending.\n\nIn 2001, Quebec had 340 primary and secondary English-language schools administered by nine English-language school boards. As in French-language schools, elementary education goes from Kindergarten to Elementary 6 (K-6), while high school goes from Secondary 1 to 5 (grades 7-11). The curriculum is strictly controlled by the Ministère de l'Education, Quebec's provincial education ministry, and is generally identical to that offered in the French-language public school system.\n\nThe exception is language education. French is taught as a second language in English schools from Grade 1 onwards, and English is symmetrically taught as a second language in French schools from grade 1 onwards. English schools in the Montreal area were pioneers in French immersion and bilingual education starting in the late 1960s. As a result, they offer a range of established bilingual and short- and long-immersion programs. Programs offering both French and English curricula as a first language have recently been approved by the Minister of Education and are increasingly popular. English immersion programs are not common in French-language public schools.\n\nSome English-speaking Quebecers also opt to send their children to French-language schools. As a result, programs to integrate English-speaking children into a French-speaking milieu (particularly in English-speaking areas on the West Island) are increasingly popular in French school boards, and have used in French-language private school for years.\n\nIn an addition to the public system, many private schools provide instruction in English, including schools serving religious and cultural communities. Quebec subsidizes a large portion of the tuition on the condition that they teach the provincial curriculum; almost all private schools accept these conditions and the accompanying subsidy.\n\nAccess to English-language public and semi-private education is restricted by provincial law to children who have at least one parent educated in English in Canada. Temporary residents of Quebec and English-speaking immigrants whose children have special learning needs may apply to the Ministère de l'Education for permission to enter these schools. (see Charter of the French Language). Access to private schools is open to anyone who can afford the tuition.\n\nColleges provide 3-year career certification programs or 2-year pre-University curricula following Grade 11 (Secondary 5) high school. Most are public colleges and tuition-free; a few are subsidized private institutions. Core courses in English literature, humanities, and French represent about 25% of the curriculum. There are eight English-language Colleges, open to all Quebec residents.\n\nEnglish is also the language of instruction at three Quebec universities (McGill University, Concordia University and Bishop's University) that offer 3-year undergraduate programs for Quebec students graduating from college. They also offer standard 4-year programs to students from all over Canada, North America, and the world. For Quebec residents, 85% of tuition is subsidized by the provincial government. Canadian students pay differential tuition fees based on the Canadian average. Foreign students pay the full cost of their tuition, although Quebec has signed reciprocal agreements with some jurisdictions such as France, Belgium, Bavaria, and Catalonia allowing students to pay local Quebec tuition rates. McGill and Concordia offer some instruction in French, and exams and assignments may be done in French at all universities.\n\nMontreal has several English-language hospitals that offer multilingual services, including service in French:\n\nOutside Montreal, some hospitals also provide services in English.\n\n\nJacques Viger, the first mayor of Montreal, created the city’s first coat of arms in 1833. The arms consisted of a red saltire surrounded by heraldic symbols to represent the cultural makeup of the municipality at the time. While a beaver represented the French community, he added a Rose to represent those of English descent, a Shamrock for the Irish and a Thistle for the Scottish. Current and former towns with sizeable Anglophone populations such as Sherbrooke, Lachine, Saint Michel and Sainte-Cunégonde (now called Little Burgundy) also incorporated some or all of these same Anglophone symbols into their own respective arms.\n\nWhile Viger’s selection of heraldic symbols aptly represented Quebec’s Anglophone population, the charges themselves were not unique Quebec inventions since they were borrowed from British heraldry. Over the years, without a truly unique symbol of their own, Quebec’s Anglophones tended to gravitate towards British icons such as the Union Jack, the Red Ensign and then later on Canada’s Maple Leaf. The flag of Montreal, where many Anglophones live, is also popular, as it resembles both the flags of Quebec and England.\n\nIn Spring 2007, an article was published in Flagscan (Issue 83 – ) suggesting that Quebec’s Anglophone population should adopt its own flag. The article noted that Francophone minority populations outside Quebec in the rest of Canada all had their own unique cultural identity flags and that the English-speaking community of Quebec should do the same. A number of possible designs were also presented. A variant of the same article was also posted over the internet.\n\nOther than British heraldic charges, Quebec’s Anglophone community still has no unique emblem representing itself that is officially recognized at any government level.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9820", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9820", "title": "Ennius", "text": "Ennius\n\nQuintus Ennius (; c. 239 – c. 169 BC) was a writer and poet who lived during the Roman Republic. He is often considered the father of Roman poetry. He was born in Rudiae, formerly a small town located near modern Lecce in the heel of Italy (ancient Calabria, today Salento), and could speak Oscan as well as Latin and Greek. Although only fragments of his works survive, his influence in Latin literature was significant, particularly in his use of Greek literary models.\n\nVery little is reliably known about the life of Ennius. His contemporaries hardly mentioned him and much that is related about him could have been embroidered from references to himself in his now fragmentary writings. Some lines of the \"Annales\", as well as ancient testimonies, for example, suggest that Ennius opened his epic with a recollection of a dream in which the ancient epic-writer Homer informed him that his spirit had been reborn into Ennius. It is true that the doctrine of the transmigration of souls once flourished in the areas of Italy settled by Greeks, but the statement might have been no more than a literary flourish. Ennius seems to have been given to making large claims, as in the report by Maurus Servius Honoratus that he claimed descent from Messapus, the legendary king of his native district. The partly Hellenised city of Rudiae, his place of birth, was certainly in the area settled by the Messapians. And this, he used to say, according to Aulus Gellius, had endowed him with a triple linguistic and cultural heritage, fancifully described as \"three hearts… Greek, Oscan and Latin”.\n\nThe public career of Ennius first really emerges in middle life, when he was serving in the army with the rank of centurion during the Second Punic War. While in Sardinia in the year 204 BC, he is said to have attracted the attention of Cato the Elder and was taken by him to Rome. There he taught Greek and adapted Greek plays for a livelihood, and by his poetical compositions gained the friendship of some of the greatest men in Rome whose achievements he praised. Amongst these were Scipio Africanus and Fulvius Nobilior, whom he accompanied on his Aetolian campaign (189). Afterwards he made the capture of Ambracia, at which he was present, the subject of a play and of an episode in the \"Annales\". It was through the influence of Nobilior's son Quintus that Ennius subsequently obtained Roman citizenship. But he himself lived plainly and simply in the literary quarter on the Aventine Hill with the poet Caecilius Statius, a fellow adapter of Greek plays. \n\nAt about the age of 70 Ennius died, immediately after producing his tragedy \"Thyestes\". In the last book of his epic poem, in which he seems to have given various details of his personal history, he mentioned that he was in his 67th year at the date of its composition. He compared himself, in contemplation of the close of the great work of his life, to a gallant horse which, after having often won the prize at the Olympic Games, obtained his rest when weary with age. A similar feeling of pride at the completion of a great career is expressed in the memorial lines which he composed to be placed under his bust after death: “Let no one weep for me, or celebrate my funeral with mourning; for I still live, as I pass to and fro through the mouths of men.”\n\nEnnius continued the nascent literary tradition by writing plays in Greek and Roman style (praetextae and palliatae), as well as his most famous work, a historic epic in hexameters called the \"Annales\". Other minor works include the \"Epicharmus\", \"Epigrammata\", the \"Euhemerus\", the \"Hedyphagetica\", \"Praecepta\"/\"Protrepticus\", \"Saturae\" (or \"Satires\"), \"Scipio\", and \"Sota\".\n\nThe \"Annales\" was an epic poem in fifteen books, later expanded to eighteen, covering Roman history from the fall of Troy in 1184 BC down to the censorship of Cato the Elder in 184 BC. It was the first Latin poem to adopt the dactylic hexameter metre used in Greek epic and didactic poetry, leading it to become the standard metre for these genres in Latin poetry. The \"Annals\" became a school text for Roman schoolchildren, eventually supplanted by Virgil's \"Aeneid\". About 600 lines survive. A copy of the work is among the Latin rolls of the Herculaneum library.\n\nThe \"Epicharmus\" was inspired by the philosophical hypotheses developed by the Sicilian poet and philosopher Epicharmus of Kos, after which Ennius's work took its name. In the \"Epicharmus\", the poet describes a dream he had in which he died and was transported to some place of heavenly enlightenment. Here, he met Epicharmus, who explained the nature of the gods and taught Ennius the physics of the universe.\n\nThe \"Euhemerus\" presented a theological doctrine based on the ideas Greek of Euhemerus of Messene, who argued that the gods of Olympus were not supernatural powers that interference in the lives of humans, but rather heroes of old who after death were eventually regarded as deities due to their valor, bravery, or cultural impact (this belief is now known as euhemerism). Both Cicero and Lactantius write that the \"Euhemerus\" was a \"translat[ion] and a recount[ing]\" of Euhemerus's original work the \"Sacred History\", but it is unclear if this means Ennius simply translated the original from Greek into Latin, or added in his own elements. Most of what is preserved of this work comes to us from Lactantius, and these snippets suggest that the \"Euhemerus\" was a prose text.\n\nThe \"Hedyphagetica\" took much of its substance from the gastronomical epic of Archestratus of Gela. The extant portions of Ennius's poem discuss where a reader might find the best type of fish. Most of the fragments, replete with unique terms for fish and numerous place names, are corrupt or damaged. The \"Hedyphagetica\" is written in hexameters, but differs from the \"Annales\" in regards to \"metrical practices\"; this difference is largely due to each works' distinct subject matter.\n\nThe titles \"Praecepta\" and \"Protrepticus\" were likely used to refer to the same (possibly exhortatory) work. However, given this work's almost non-existent nature (only the word \"pannibus\"an \"unusual\" form of the word \"pannis\", meaning \"rags\"is preserved in the work of the Latin grammarian Charisius), this position is extremely difficult to verify.\n\nThe \"Saturae\" is a collection of about thirty lines from satirical poemsmaking it the first extant instance of Roman satire. These lines are written in a variety of poetic metres. The poems in this collection \"were mostly concerned with practical wisdom, often driving home a lesson with the help of a fable.\"\n\nEnnius's \"Scipio\" was a work (possibly a panegyric poem) that apparently celebrated the life and deeds of Scipio Africanus. Hardly anything remains of this work, and what is preserved is embedded in the works of others. Unfortunately, \"no quotation of [\"Scipio\"] supplies a context\". Some have proposed that the work was written before the \"Annales\", and others have said that the work was written after Scipio's 201 BC triumph that followed the Battle of Zama (202 BC).\n\nThe \"Sota\" was a poem, potentially of some length, named after the Greek poet Sotades. The work, which followed a metre established by Sotades known as the \"Sotadeus\", concerned itself with a disparate number of topics and ideas.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47176569", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47176569", "title": "European troika", "text": "European troika\n\nThe European troika is the designation of the triumvirate representing the European Union in its foreign relations, in particular concerning its common foreign and security policy (CFSP). \n\nCurrently, while talking about the troika (especially in the media) one refers to a decision group formed by the European Commission (EC), the European Central Bank (ECB) and the International Monetary Fund (IMF).\n\nThis term was used in the European Union when referring to a group composed of the Foreign Affairs Minister of the Member State holding the Presidency of the Council of Ministers, the Secretary-General of the Council of the European Union, who also held the post of High Representative of the Common Foreign and Security Policy (CFSP), and the European Commissioner for External Relations. The \"Troïka\" represented the European Union in external relations that fall within the scope of the common foreign and security policy (CFSP).\n\nWith the 2009 ratification of the Lisbon Treaty, the post of Secretary-General of the Council was separated from the post of High Representative for the CFSP, which then assumed the responsibilities of the European Commissioner for External Relations. Since only two of the original posts making up the troika still exist, it is unclear what the future of the troika arrangement in the EU is.\n\nThe term \"troika\" has been widely used in Greece and Cyprus (), Ireland, Portugal and Spain to refer to the presence of the European Commission, European Central Bank, and International Monetary Fund in these member states since 2010 and the financial measures that these institutions have taken. Slovenia barely avoided the intervention by the \"troika\" in 2013, thanks to the loan of EUR 1.5 billion acquired at the PIMCO.\n"}
{"id": "6745050", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6745050", "title": "Exchange diary", "text": "Exchange diary\n\nAn is a notebook shared between friends, who take it in turns to write in their thoughts or other comments. Exchange diaries were especially popular in Japan in the 1990s in elementary and junior high schools, particularly among girls.\n\n"}
{"id": "56972098", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56972098", "title": "Exmatriculation", "text": "Exmatriculation\n\nExmatriculation is the removal of a student's name from the list of current students when they leave a university. It refers to the deregistering or unenrolling of a student as a result of graduation, expulsion, inability to pay school fees, meet academic progress requirements or their self withdrawal from the university.\n\nIn cases of voluntary withdrawal, some schools, depending on their various conditions, may reimburse part of the fees if the student applies for it. Unlike after a leave of absence, continuation of your studies following voluntary exmatriculation may be faced with difficulties.\n\nExpelled students are usually barred from being readmitted into the university where they got exmatriculated. However, in different cases, there are various exceptions and conditions for reapplying into the same university. There have also been cases of students whose expulsion was welcomed by the public's pressure and protests to revert it. Students who were exmatriculated due to failure to meet payment deadlines or continuous academic progress can also apply to be readmitted within a period of time depending on the school.\n"}
{"id": "16093222", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16093222", "title": "Geruma language", "text": "Geruma language\n\nGeruma (also known as Gerema, Germa) is an Afro-Asiatic language spoken in Nigeria. Dialects include Duurum and Sum. Speakers are shifting to Hausa.\n"}
{"id": "56700084", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56700084", "title": "Hounkpati B Christophe Capo", "text": "Hounkpati B Christophe Capo\n\nHounkpati B Christophe Capo (born January 1, 1953) is a Beninese linguist, and professor of linguistics at the Université d'Abomey-Calavi in the Republic of Benin.\n\nHounkpati B Christophe Capo has a humanities degree (1974) and a master's degree in linguistics (1977) from the National University of Benin (UNB), a master of arts (1977) and a Ph.D. in linguistics from the University of Ghana (1981). He taught and collaborated at several universities in West Africa, notably the universities of Benin City and Ilorin in Nigeria in 1978.\n\nHired as an assistant professor in 1986 at the National University of Benin, he was then promoted several times within the Conseil africain et malgache de l'enseignement supérieur (CAMES). Permanent interim secretary of the scientific council of the National University of Benin from 1994 to 1999, he was decorated as a knight of the national order of Benin in 1995 and became an officer of national order of Benin in 2008.\n\nMarried with five children, reputed research professor, scientific director of Labo-Gbe, international laboratory of Gbe languages (Gadomè, Bénin), he has written seven books, thirteen book chapters and more than fifty articles in scientific reviews. He is a member of several learned societies including the Société Linguistique de l'Afrique de l'Ouest (SLAO) (Linguistic Society of West Africa) and the Institut International de Recherche et de Formation (INIREF) (International Institute of Research and Training) in Cotonou, Benin and an editor or assistant editor of several international scientific journals. He has guided several doctoral theses in Benin and elsewhere and contributed to the promotions of several colleagues in his department.\n\nCapo is the assistant director of the doctoral multidisciplinairy school of the Faculty of Letters, Arts and Social Sciences of Aplahoué in Kouffo Department in southwest Benin, an entity of the university of Abomey-Calavi.\n\nHounkpati B Christophe Capo conducted research and taught in the linguistics departments and centers for african studies at several universities : University of Cologne (Germany), Cornell University (US), University of Gainesville (US), Ohio State University (US), Massachusetts Institute of Technology (US), Université du Québec à Montréal (Canada), CASAS South Africa, University of Ghana (Lagon), University of Hamburg (Germany), University of Frankfurt (Germany), University of Bayreuth (Germany), University of Bremen (Germany).\n\nHe has been associated with the development association of Comé since 2002 and is a sitting councillor there as well.\n\nHounkpati B Christophe Capo has worked on the rehabilitation of the languages of the Gbe dialectal continuum, previously known as the Aja-Eve languages of the Gulf of Benin in West Africa. Beginning in 1930, publications on the Gbe languages rapidly appeared, the vast majority on individual Gbe languages.\n\nCapo set out a classification of the Gbe languages and a reconstruction of the phonology of proto-Gbe. Much of the comparative research for this classification was carried out by Capo in the 1970s, and partial results were published in the 1970s and early 1980s as articles on specific phonological developments in various branches of the Gbe dialectal continuum, and notably as a standard spelling for Gbe languages.\n\nHis first major work, \"Renaissance du Gbe\" (1988), published a classification of the Gbe languages for the first time. In 1991, he published \"Comparative phonology of Gbe\". In this period, he also founded the Labo Gbe (Int.), the \"Laboratoire de recherche sur les langues Gbe\" (Research Laboratory on Gbe Languages) based in Benin, which promotes research and has published several articles and documents on Gbe languages. The Labo Gbe, in Gadomè on the Cotonou-Lomé road 40 km from Cotonou, has an impressive collection of documentation and a scientific journal titled Etudes Gbe – Gbe Studies.\n\n\nCapo has published articles in the following journals :\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1918627", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1918627", "title": "Jaqaru language", "text": "Jaqaru language\n\nJaqaru (\"Haq'aru\") is a language of the Aymaran family. It is also known as Jaqi and Aru. It is spoken in the districts of Tupe and Catahuasi in Yauyos Province, Lima Region, Peru. Most of the 2000 ethnic Jaqaru have migrated to Lima.\n\nKawki, a divergent dialect, is spoken in the nearby communities of Cachuy, Canchán, Caipán and Chavín by a few elderly individuals (9 surviving in early 2005). Hardman has noted that while Jaqaru and Kawki share a degree of mutual intelligibility, speakers of one were unable to understand tape recordings of the other, and in a few cases of marriage between Kawki and Jaqaru speakers, the home language was Spanish. (However, the home language of most Jaqaru and Kawki is now Spanish.) Historical analysis shows that the two languages were out of contact for a period.\n\nThere exist clear differences between Jaqaru and Kawki in regard to morphology. Jaqaru has ten verb persons, whereas Kawki has only nine (due to a case of homophony wherein Kawki maintained the semantic distinction between two different person markers, but lost the form distinction between the two). Additionally, regressive vowel harmony is present throughout the verb person system in Jaqaru, but does not appear in Kawki. Phonologically, Kawki is differentiated from Jaqaru in its vowel system. Jaqaru contains six vowels- three of regular length and three short, whereas Kawki has only the three regular-length vowels.\n\nJaqaru has three phonemic vowels , which distinguish two degrees of length. Long vowels are indicated in writing as follows: /a: i: u:/. \n\nSyntax in Jaqaru consists mainly of a system of sentence suffixes. These suffixes indicate sentence type (interrogative, declarative, etc.) Suffixes can and often do occur more than one per sentence, marking sentence type and creating complex constructions. Simply put, for sentences to be grammatical in Jaqaru, they must be inflected. Morphological words and syntactic phrases which do not contain a sentence suffix are judged by native speakers to be ungrammatical and for some, impossible to say (Hardman, 2000).\n\nSentence suffixes occur after all other morphological processes and can occur on any morphological words or syntactic phrases. The nature of sentence suffixes allows for freedom of word order and creativity in sentence construction, useful to storytellers (Hardman, 2000).\n\nThere are seven classes of sentence suffixes in Jaqaru, listed below:\n\nOrder classes of sentence suffixes (Hardman, 2000: 92)\n\n\nThese suffixes can occur in combination on words and most Class I suffixes rarely appear without another suffix on a morphological word. Classes II, III, and IV occur most frequently and are considered the core of syntactic inflection. It is theoretically possible for all sentence suffixes to occur in a sentence, but no case has ever been found. At most three or four sentence suffixes have been found in a text, as of the year 2000. However, because many morphological suffixes can also be stacked, syntactic words frequently carry up to seven or eight suffixes (Hardman, 2000).\n\nUnlike sentence word order, within phrases a fixed word order is either preferred or obligatory. Two main types of phrases occur in Jaqaru: noun phrases and verb phrases.\n\nNoun Phrases. There are three types of noun phrases: modifier phrases, number phrases, and possessive phrases. Modifier phrases consist of a head noun preceded by a one or more modifier noun, which is marked by vowel dropping. Numbers in Jaqaru are on a base ten scale. Number phrases are carefully ordered to build larger numbers using multipliers of 10, 100, and 1000. The number phrase order is: number x multiplier + number. Neutral, unmarked possessive phrases follow a specific order: possessor + -na + possessed + one of the four personal possessive suffixes (Hardman, 2000).\nVerb Phrases. Verb phrases in Jaqaru are rare and never consist of more than two parts. There are four fixed order types: the careful phrase, the facultative phrase, the effort phrase, and the OV phrase (vowel-drop modifier + verb root). Verbs can additionally be modified by a quantifier modifier (Hardman, 2000).\n\nThere are three types of particles in Jaqaru: negatives, greetings, and a few special ones. Three particles are used for negation: imperative negative, principle negative, and subordinate negative. Four greetings are used in Jaqaru for addressing people, which mark the sex of the speaker and the addressee and do not carry any suffixes of any kind. Four special particles take no suffixes and comprise utterances in and of themselves: Jira (“Let’s go”), Jalli (“I don’t know, could be.”), Wala (“Go on, get going, bye.”), and Chiku (“I’m going, I’m off, bye.”) (Hardman, 2000: 115).\n\nJaqaru morphology is extremely complex. Most of the grammatical information in Jaqaru is carried in the morphology. The basic person system consists of four persons. In the verb system, these four persons are expanded into a conjugation of ten grammatical person markers, each marking both subject and object in a single suffix. Also characteristic of the Jaqaru morphology (and all of the Jaqi languages) is the use of extensive vowel dropping for grammatical marking. The rules constraining vowel dropping are extensive, and can be conditioned by such things as morpheme identity, morpheme sequence, syntactic requirements, some phonological requirements and suffix requirements. (Hardman, 2000).\n\nThe primary form classes are root and suffix. Root classes are verb, noun, and particle; suffix classes are nominal, verbal, thematic, and sentence.\n\nData-source marking is reflected in every sentence of the language. The three major grammatical categories of data source are:\n\n1. personal knowledge (PK)--typically referring to sight\n\n2. knowledge-through-language (KTW)--referring to all that is learned by hearing others speak and by reading\n\n3. non-personal-knowledge (NPK)--used for all myths, histories from longer ago than any living memory, stories, and non-involvement of the speaker in the current situation (Hardman, 2000)\n\nNominal morphology involves suffixes, with two kinds of nominal suffixes: possession and modification. Noun suffixes consist of two types. One set involves the interplay of nouns with the rest of the sentence (there are 10 of these suffixes: 4 possessives, 5 directionals, and 1 object marker). All other nominal suffixes function to create complex nouns (Hardman, 2000).\n\nNominal morphology is based on a four-person paradigm which marks the relationship of the second person to the utterance. Therefore, the first person excludes the addressee. Second person excludes the speaker. Third person excludes both the speaker and the addressee, and is used for unmarked or null instances. Fourth person marks the inclusion of both the speaker and the addressee (Hardman, 2000).\n\nVerbal morphology in Jaqaru is extremely complex, in both inflections and derivations. A great deal of the grammatical work of the language is done within the verbal morphological system. The standard paradigm is of ten persons, which define the relationships between the four basic persons (Hardman, 2000, 56):\n\n\n\n\n\nIn Jaqaru (and all other Jaqi languages), the tie between object and subject is one of union; they are not separable morphologically, and conjugation requires simultaneous specification of both as a unit. Verbs are conjugated in two sets: one for principal clauses with ten tenses and one for subordinate clauses with twelve tenses. Verbs ordinarily consist of a minimum of three morphemes. However, typical verbs consist of many more (Hardman, 2000).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48422", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48422", "title": "José Saramago", "text": "José Saramago\n\nJosé de Sousa Saramago, (; 16 November 1922 – 18 June 2010), was a Portuguese writer and recipient of the 1998 Nobel Prize in Literature. His works, some of which can be seen as allegories, commonly present subversive perspectives on historic events, emphasizing the theopoetic human factor. In 2003 Harold Bloom described Saramago as \"the most gifted novelist alive in the world today\" and in 2010 said he considers Saramago to be \"a permanent part of the Western canon\", while James Wood praises \"the distinctive tone to his fiction because he narrates his novels as if he were someone both wise and ignorant.\"\n\nMore than two million copies of Saramago's books have been sold in Portugal alone and his work has been translated into 25 languages. A proponent of libertarian communism, Saramago criticized institutions such as the Catholic Church, the European Union and the International Monetary Fund. An atheist, he defended love as an instrument to improve the human condition. In 1992, the Government of Portugal under Prime Minister Aníbal Cavaco Silva ordered the removal of \"The Gospel According to Jesus Christ\" from the Aristeion Prize's shortlist, claiming the work was religiously offensive. Disheartened by this political censorship of his work, Saramago went into exile on the Spanish island of Lanzarote, upon which he resided until his death in 2010.\n\nSaramago was a founding member of the National Front for the Defense of Culture in Lisbon in 1992, and co-founder with Orhan Pamuk, of the European Writers' Parliament (EWP).\n\nSaramago was born in 1922 into a family of landless peasants in Azinhaga, Portugal, a small village in Ribatejo Province, some one hundred kilometers northeast of Lisbon. His parents were José de Sousa and Maria de Piedade. \"Saramago\", the Portuguese word for \"Raphanus raphanistrum\" (wild radish), was his father's family's nickname, and was accidentally incorporated into his name upon registration of his birth.\n\nIn 1924, Saramago's family moved to Lisbon, where his father started working as a policeman. A few months after the family moved to the capital, his brother Francisco, older by two years, died. He spent vacations with his grandparents in Azinhaga. When his grandfather suffered a stroke and was to be taken to Lisbon for treatment, Saramago recalled, \"He went into the yard of his house, where there were a few trees, fig trees, olive trees. And he went one by one, embracing the trees and crying, saying good-bye to them because he knew he would not return. To see this, to live this, if that doesn't mark you for the rest of your life,\" Saramago said, \"you have no feeling.\" Although Saramago was a good pupil, his parents were unable to afford to keep him in grammar school, and instead moved him to a technical school at age 12.\n\nAfter graduating, he worked as a car mechanic for two years. Later he worked as a translator, then as a journalist. He was assistant editor of the newspaper \"Diário de Notícias\", a position he had to leave after the democratic revolution in 1974. After a period of working as a translator he was able to support himself solely as a writer.\n\nSaramago married Ilda Reis in 1944. Their only daughter, Violante, was born in 1947. In 1986 he met Spanish journalist Pilar del Río. They married in 1988 and remained together until his death in June 2010. Del Río is the official translator of Saramago's books into Spanish.\n\nSaramago did not achieve widespread recognition and acclaim until he was sixty, with the publication of his fourth novel, \"Memorial do Convento\". A baroque tale set during the Inquisition in 18th-century Lisbon, it tells of the love between a maimed soldier and a young clairvoyant, and of a renegade priest's heretical dream of flight. The novel's translation in 1988 as \"Baltasar and Blimunda\" (by Giovanni Pontiero) brought Saramago to the attention of an international readership. This novel won the Portuguese PEN Club Award.\n\nSaramago joined the Portuguese Communist Party in 1969 and remained a member until the end of his life. He was a self-confessed pessimist. His views aroused considerable controversy in Portugal, especially after the publication of \"The Gospel According to Jesus Christ\". Members of the country's Catholic community were outraged by Saramago's representation of Jesus and particularly God as fallible, even cruel human beings. Portugal's conservative government, led by then-prime minister Cavaco Silva, did not allow Saramago's work to compete for the Aristeion Prize, arguing that it offended the Catholic community. As a result, Saramago and his wife moved to Lanzarote, an island in the Canaries.\n\nThe European Writers' Parliament (EWP) came about as a result of a joint proposal by Saramago and fellow Nobel laureate Orhan Pamuk. Saramago was expected to speak as the guest of honour at the EWP, but he died before the opening ceremony in 2010.\n\nSaramago suffered from leukemia. He died on 18 June 2010, aged 87, having spent the last few years of his life in Lanzarote, Spain. His family said that he had breakfast and chatted with his wife and translator Pilar del Río on Friday morning, after which he started feeling unwell and died. \"The Guardian\" described him as \"the finest Portuguese writer of his generation\", while Fernanda Eberstadt of \"The New York Times\" said he was \"known almost as much for his unfaltering Communism as for his fiction\". Saramago's translator, Margaret Jull Costa, paid tribute to him, describing his \"wonderful imagination\" and calling him \"the greatest contemporary Portuguese writer\". Saramago had continued his writing until his death. His most recent publication, \"Claraboia\", was published in 2011, after his death. Saramago had suffered from pneumonia a year before his death. Having been thought to have made a full recovery, he had been scheduled to attend the Edinburgh International Book Festival in August 2010.\n\nPortugal declared two days of mourning. There were tributes from senior international politicians: Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva (Brazil), Bernard Kouchner (France) and José Luis Rodríguez Zapatero (Spain), while Cuba's Raúl and Fidel Castro sent flowers.\n\nSaramago's funeral was held in Lisbon on 20 June 2010, in the presence of more than 20,000 people, many of whom had travelled hundreds of kilometres, but also notably in the absence of right-wing President of Portugal Aníbal Cavaco Silva, who was holidaying in the Azores as the ceremony took place. Cavaco Silva, the Prime Minister who removed Saramago's work from the shortlist of the Aristeion Prize, said he did not attend Saramago's funeral because he \"had never had the privilege to know him\". Mourners, who questioned Cavaco Silva's absence in the presence of reporters, held copies of the red carnation, symbolic of Portugal's democratic revolution. Saramago's cremation took place in Lisbon, and his ashes were buried on the anniversary of his death, 18 June 2011, underneath a hundred year old olive tree on the square in front of the José Saramago Foundation (Casa dos Bicos).\n\nThe José Saramago Foundation announced in October 2011 the publication of a so-called \"lost novel\" published as \"Skylight\" (\"Claraboia\" in Portuguese). It was written in the 1950s and remained in the archive of a publisher to whom the manuscript had been sent. Saramago remained silent about the work up to his death. The book has been translated into several languages.\n\nSaramago's experimental style often features long sentences, at times more than a page long. He used periods sparingly, choosing instead a loose flow of clauses joined by commas. Many of his paragraphs extend for pages without pausing for dialogue, (which Saramago chooses not to delimit by quotation marks); when the speaker changes, Saramago capitalizes the first letter of the new speaker's clause. His works often refer to his other works. In his novel \"Blindness\", Saramago completely abandons the use of proper nouns, instead referring to characters simply by some unique characteristic, an example of his style reflecting the recurring themes of identity and meaning found throughout his work.\n\nSaramago's novels often deal with fantastic scenarios. In his 1986 novel \"The Stone Raft\", the Iberian Peninsula breaks off from the rest of Europe and sails around the Atlantic Ocean. In his 1995 novel \"Blindness\", an entire unnamed country is stricken with a mysterious plague of \"white blindness\". In his 1984 novel \"The Year of the Death of Ricardo Reis\" (which won the PEN Award and the \"Independent\" Foreign Fiction Award), Fernando Pessoa's heteronym survives for a year after the poet himself dies. Additionally, his novel \"Death with Interruptions\" (also translated as \"Death at Intervals\") takes place in a country in which, suddenly, nobody dies, and concerns, in part, the spiritual and political implications of the event, although the book ultimately moves from a synoptic to a more personal perspective.\n\nSaramago addresses serious matters with empathy for the human condition and for the isolation of contemporary urban life. His characters struggle with their need to connect with one another, form relations and bond as a community, and also with their need for individuality, and to find meaning and dignity outside of political and economic structures.\n\nWhen asked to describe his daily writing routine in 2009, Saramago responded, \"I write two pages. And then I read and read and read.\"\n\nSaramago was an atheist. The Catholic Church criticised him on numerous occasions due to the content of some of his novels, mainly \"The Gospel According to Jesus Christ\" and \"Cain\", in which he uses satire and biblical quotations to present the figure of God in a comical way. The Portuguese government lambasted his 1991 novel \"O Evangelho Segundo Jesus Cristo\" (\"The Gospel according to Jesus Christ\") and struck the writer's name from nominees for the European Literature Prize, saying the atheist work offended Portuguese Catholic convictions. The book portrays a Christ who, subject to human desires, lives with Mary Magdalene and tries to back out of the crucifixion. Following the Swedish Academy's decision to present Saramago with the Nobel Prize in Literature, the Vatican questioned the decision on political grounds, though gave no comment on the aesthetic or literary components of Saramago's work. Saramago responded: \"The Vatican is easily scandalized, especially by people from outside. They should just focus on their prayers and leave people in peace. I respect those who believe, but I have no respect for the institution.\"\n\nSaramago was a proponent of anarcho-communism, and a member of the Communist Party of Portugal. As such he stood for the 1989 Lisbon local election in the list of the Coalition \"For Lisbon\" and was elected alderman and presiding officer of the Municipal Assembly of Lisbon. Saramago was also a candidate of the Democratic Unity Coalition in all elections to the European Parliament from 1989 to 2009, though was often in positions thought to have no possibility of being elected. He was a critic of European Union (EU) and International Monetary Fund (IMF) policies.\n\nAlthough many of his novels are acknowledged political satire of a subtle kind, it is in \"The Notebook\" that Saramago made his political convictions most clear. The book, written from a Marxist perspective, is a collection of his blog articles for the year September 2008 to August 2009. According to \"The Independent\", \"Saramago aims to cut through the web of 'organized lies' surrounding humanity, and to convince readers by delivering his opinions in a relentless series of unadorned, knock-down prose blows.\" His political engagement led to comparisons with George Orwell: \"Orwell's hostility to the British Empire runs parallel to Saramago's latter-day crusade against empire in the shape of globalisation.\" When speaking to \"The Observer\" in 2006 he said \"The painter paints, the musician makes music, the novelist writes novels. But I believe that we all have some influence, not because of the fact that one is an artist, but because we are citizens. As citizens, we all have an obligation to intervene and become involved, it's the citizen who changes things. I can't imagine myself outside any kind of social or political involvement.\"\n\nDuring the Second Intifada, while visiting Ramallah in March 2002, Saramago said: \"What is happening in Palestine is a crime we can put on the same plain as what happened at Auschwitz ... A sense of impunity characterises the Israeli people and its army. They have turned into rentiers of the Holocaust.\" Some critics of these words contended that they were antisemitic. Six months later, Saramago clarified. \"To have said that Israel's action is to be condemned, that war crimes are being perpetrated - really the Israelis are used to that. It doesn't bother them. But there are certain words they can't stand. And to say 'Auschwitz' there ... note well, I didn't say that Ramallah was the same as Auschwitz, that would be stupid. What I said was that the spirit of Auschwitz was present in Ramallah. We were eight writers. They all made condemning statements, Wole Soyinka, Breyten Breytenbach, Vincenzo Consolo and others. But the Israelis weren't bothered about those. It was the fact that I put my finger in the Auschwitz wound that made them jump.\"\n\nDuring the 2006 Lebanon War, Saramago joined Tariq Ali, John Berger, Noam Chomsky, and others in condemning what they characterized as \"a long-term military, economic and geographic practice whose political aim is nothing less than the liquidation of the Palestinian nation\".\n\nHe was also a supporter of Iberian Federalism. In a 2008 press conference for the filming of \"Blindness\" he asked, in reference to the Great Recession, \"Where was all that money poured on markets? Very tight and well kept; then suddenly it appears to save what? lives? no, banks.\" He added, \"Marx was never so right as now\", and predicted \"the worst is still to come.\"\n\n\nThe Swedish Academy selected Saramago as 1998 recipient of the Nobel Prize for Literature. The announcement came when he was about to fly to Germany for the Frankfurt Book Fair, and caught both him and his editor by surprise. The Nobel committee praised his \"parables sustained by imagination, compassion and irony\", and his \"modern skepticism\" about official truths.\n\n\nThe José Saramago Foundation was founded by José Saramago in June 2007, with the aim to defend and spread the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the promotion of culture in Portugal just like in all the countries, and protection of the environment. The José Saramago Foundation is located in the historic Casa dos Bicos in the city of Lisbon.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40909378", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40909378", "title": "Kaldi (software)", "text": "Kaldi (software)\n\nKaldi is a speech recognition toolkit, freely available under the Apache License.\n\nKaldi aims to provide software that is flexible and extensible. It supports linear transforms, MMI, boosted MMI and MCE discriminative training, feature-space discriminative training, and deep neural networks.\n\nKaldi has been incorporated as part of the CHiME Speech Separation and Recognition Challenge over several successive events. The software was initially developed as part of a 2009 workshop at Johns Hopkins University.\n\n"}
{"id": "17192903", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17192903", "title": "Khinalug language", "text": "Khinalug language\n\nKhinalug (also spelled Khinalig, Khinalugi, Xinalug(h), Xinaliq or Khinalugh) is a Northeast Caucasian language spoken by about 1,500 people in the villages of Khinalug and Gülüstan, Quba in the mountains of Quba Rayon, northern Azerbaijan. It forms its own independent branch within the Northeast Caucasian language family.\n\nKhinalug is endangered, and classified as \"severely endangered\" by UNESCO's Atlas of the World's Languages in Danger. \n\nKhinalug is the language of the village Khinalug in the Quba district of Azerbaijan. It has been tentatively classified by previous researchers as a member of the Lezgian family of the Dagestani branch of Northeast Caucasian languages Although Khinalug is the official language of the village, it is mostly spoken by villagers in informal circumstances, while the national language Azerbaijani is used formally for educational purposes and to communicate with non-Khinalug speakers. Khinalug is considered to be a threatened language. This is in part due to the breaking down of a road that leads into the village, leaving it mostly isolated. \n\nThe following words were phonetically transcribed from Khinalug:\nNote: ı is roughly pronounced as the \"e\" in \"fall\"e\"n\". u is roughly pronounced as the \"ou\" in \"c\"ou\"p\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43994728", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43994728", "title": "Kolakaluri Enoch", "text": "Kolakaluri Enoch\n\nKolakaluri Enoch is an Indian writer, teacher, and former Vice Chancellor of Sri Venkateswara University, Tirupati. He was honoured by the Government of India, in 2014, by bestowing on him the Padma Shri, the fourth highest civilian award, for his contributions to the field of literature.\n\nKolakaluri Enoch was born in a madiga family with meagre financial resources, on 1 July 1939, to Ramaiah and Veeramma, in the small village of Vejandla, in Guntur district, in the present day Andhra Pradesh state of India.\n\nKolakaluri Enoch started his career by joining Andhra University as a faculty member. He had a notable career which took him to the post of the Vice Chancellor of the Sri Venkateswara University, Tirupati, the institution from where he secured his doctoral degree.\n\nKolakaluri Enoch has a fairly large body of work, which comprises 180 poems, 180 stories, 9 novels and 30 plays apart from other efforts on literary criticisms and Children's literature. Many of his works have been translated into other languages such as English, Hindi, Tamil, Kannada, and Malayalam. His works have been subjected to critical studies for educational purposes and nine PhDs and 5 MPhils have been reported to be based on them. One of his stoies, \"Talalenodu\" (A Person without head), was a prescribed text book for intermediate course at Andhra University during the period from 1987 to 1995.\n\nEnoch, belonging to a backward community, was also reported to be a social activist and, championed the cause of Dalits through his works. He was a member of the jury for T. V. Nandi awards of the Government of Andhra Pradesh in the year 1992.\n\nKolakaluri Enoch was awarded the Padma Shri, in 2014, by the Government of India He has also received many other awards such as:\n\nHe is also reported to have received the Ambedkar National Literary Award (1997), Juluri Nagarajarao Literary Award (1977), Paidi Lakshmaiah Literary Award (1998), and Madras Telugu Akademi Literary Award (2001) Some of the educational awards received by him are:\n\n\nSome of the titles conferred on him by local cultural bodies are the \"Andhra Shri\" by the Sri Saraswati Journal in 1961, \"Kalasaraswati\" by Kalavedika, Hyderabad in 1985, \"Sahiti Samrat\" by Kalarayam, Hyderabad in 1991 and \"Kathaka Chakravarti\" by Joshua Samithi, Vinukonda in 1999.\n\nEnoch is credited with over 180 poems, 180 stories, 9 novels and 30 plays. Some of his notable works are:\n\nPoems\n\nDramas\n\nOne Act Plays\n\nNovels\n\nShort Story Anthologies\n\nResearch Papers\n\nLiterary Criticism\n\nTranslations\n\nChildren's literature\n\nEnoch's writings have been transalted into English, Kannada, Tamil, Malayalam, and Hindi. His works have been subjected to critical studies, both for literary and educational purposes.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6550747", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6550747", "title": "Languages of New Zealand", "text": "Languages of New Zealand\n\nEnglish is the predominant language and a \"de facto\" official language of New Zealand. Almost the entire population speak it either as native speakers or proficiently as a second language. The New Zealand English dialect is most similar to Australian English in pronunciation, with some key differences. The Māori language of the indigenous Māori people was made the first \"de jure\" official language in 1987. New Zealand Sign Language (NZSL) has been an official language since 2006. Many other languages are used by New Zealand's minority ethnic communities.\n\nNew Zealand has three official languages: English, Māori and New Zealand Sign Language.\n\nEnglish is spoken by 96.1 percent of the population. It has long been the predominant language and the \"de facto\" official language. It is the primary language used in parliament, government, the courts, and the education system. Its official status has been presumed and is not codified in statute. In 2018, New Zealand First MP Clayton Mitchell introduced a bill to parliament to statutorily recognise English as an official language.\n\nNew Zealand English is mostly non-rhotic with the exception of the \"southern burr\" found principally in Southland and parts of Otago. It is similar to Australian English and many speakers from the Northern Hemisphere are unable to tell the two accents apart. In New Zealand English the short i (as in kit) has become centralised, leading to the phrase \"fish and chips\" sounding like \"fush and chups\" to the Australian ear. The words \"rarely\" and \"really\", \"reel\" and \"real\", \"doll\" and \"dole\", \"pull\" and \"pool\", \"witch\" and \"which\", and \"full\" and \"fill\" can sometimes be pronounced as homophones. Some New Zealanders pronounce the past participles \"grown\", \"thrown\" and \"mown\" using two syllables, whereas \"groan\", \"throne\" and \"moan\" are pronounced as one syllable. New Zealanders often reply to a question or emphasise a point by adding a rising intonation at the end of the sentence. New Zealand English has also borrowed words and phrases from Māori, such as haka (war dance), kia ora (a greeting), mana (power or prestige), puku (stomach), taonga (treasure) and waka (canoe).\n\nThe Māori language of the indigenous Māori people has been an official language by statute since 1987, with rights and obligations to use it defined by the Maori Language Act 1987. It can, for example, be used in legal settings, such as in court, but proceedings are recorded in English only, unless private arrangements are made and agreed by the judge.\n\nAn Eastern Polynesian language, Māori is closely related to Tahitian and Cook Islands Māori. After the Second World War, Māori were discouraged from speaking their language in schools and workplaces and it existed as a community language only in a few remote areas. Since the 1970s, the language has undergone a process of revitalisation and is spoken by a larger number of people. Of the 148,395 people (or 3.7 percent of the total New Zealand population) who claimed they could hold a conversation in Māori in 2013, 84.5 percent identified as Māori. No adult Māori alive in New Zealand today does not also speak English.\n\nNew Zealand Sign Language, the main language of the deaf community in New Zealand, has been an official language by statute since 2006, by virtue of the New Zealand Sign Language Act 2006. It is legal to use it and have access to it in legal proceedings and government services. In 2013, 20,235 people reported the ability to use New Zealand Sign Language.\n\nNew Zealand has immigrants from European, Asian and Pacific Island countries who have brought their languages with them. According to Ethnologue (), the largest groups are Samoan (86,400), Hindi (66,300), Mandarin Chinese (52,300), French (49,100) and Yue Chinese (44,600). In the 2013 census, about 87,534 people did not include English as one of their spoken languages.\n\nThe number and proportion of multilingual (people who can speak two or more languages) has continued to increase since the 2001 census. In 2013, the number of multilingual people was 737,910, or 18.6 percent of the population. The highest numbers of multilingual speakers lived in the Auckland, Wellington, and Canterbury regions.\n\nIn the 2013 census, the following languages were reportedly spoken by more than 0.1 percent of the population. People could report more than one language, therefore percentages do not add up to 100. Statistics necessarily exclude unusable responses and those who spoke no language (e.g. too young to talk).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "960277", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=960277", "title": "Loyalty oath", "text": "Loyalty oath\n\nA loyalty oath is an oath of loyalty to an organization, institution, or state of which an individual is a member. In the United States, such an oath has often indicated that the affiant has not been a member of a particular organization or organizations mentioned in the oath.\n\nDuring the American Civil War, political prisoners and Confederate prisoners of war were often released upon taking an \"oath of allegiance\". Lincoln's Ten percent plan featured an oath to \"faithfully support, protect and defend the Constitution of the United States, and the union of the States thereunder\" as a condition for a Presidential pardon. During Reconstruction, retroactive loyalty oaths were proposed by Radical Republicans, which would have barred former Confederates and Confederate sympathizers from federal, state, or local offices. Beginning in 1862 all U.S. Naval shipyard employees were required to sign a loyalty oath as a condition of employment. Almira V. Brown nee Rudd, first went to work at the Washington Navy Yard in 1864 as a seamstress. Brown continued to work at the navy yard until her retirement in 1922 Brown’s husband Francis Brown was killed in a tragic explosion at the laboratory in March 1861. The thumbnail image is of Virginia V. Brown's signed 21 March 1864 Loyalty Oath. \n\nIn support of Roosevelt's National Recovery Administration, 100,000 school children marched to Boston Common and swore a loyalty oath administered by the mayor, \"I promise as a good American citizen to do my part for the NRA. I will buy only where the Blue Eagle flies.\" \n\nLoyalty oaths were common during World War II. \n\nAnother use of loyalty oaths in the United States was during the 1950s and 1960s. The Red Scare during the 1950s and the Congressional hearings chaired by Senator Joseph McCarthy helped to sustain a national mood of concern about communist agents and a fear such agents may injure the U.S. government through espionage or outright violence.\n\nOn March 21, 1947, concerned with Soviet subversive penetration and infiltration into the United States government by American citizens who held oaths of allegiance to a foreign power during wartime, President Harry S Truman instituted a Loyalty Program by signing Executive Order 9835, also known as the \"Loyalty Order.\" It required loyalty oaths and background investigations on persons deemed suspect of holding party membership in organizations that advocated violent and anti-democratic programs.\n\nThe Levering Act was a law enacted by the U.S. state of California in 1950. It required state employees to subscribe to a loyalty oath that specifically disavowed radical beliefs. It was aimed in particular at employees of the University of California. in January, 1950, 750 faculty members had approved a resolution to oppose the University's Regents and create a committee to coordinate legal action against the University should an oath be required. Several teachers resigned in protest or lost their positions when they refused to sign the loyalty oath. Among those who left were the psychologist Erik Erikson and the classical scholar Ludwig Edelstein, both of them Jewish refugees from Nazi Germany. In August, 1950, The Regents fired 31 faculty members who refused to sign the oath. Those who were terminated sued, and by 1952 had been rehired when the University declined to pursue its case against them in court. One of the fired faculty members, the physics professor David Saxon went on with his career and was appointed President of the entire University of California system in 1975, a job he held until 1983. \n\nTypically, a loyalty oath has wording similar to that mentioned in the U.S Supreme Court decision of \"Garner v. Board of Public Works\":\n\nI further swear (or affirm) that I do not advise, advocate or teach, and have not within the period beginning five (5) years prior to the effective date of the ordinance requiring the making of this oath or affirmation, advised, advocated or taught, the overthrow by force, violence or other unlawful means, of the Government of the United States of America or of the State of California and that I am not now and have not, within said period, been or become a member of or affiliated with any group, society, association, organization or party which advises, advocates or teaches, or has, within said period, advised, advocated or taught, the overthrow by force, violence or other unlawful means of the Government of the United States of America, or of the State of California. I further swear (or affirm) that I will not, while I am in the service of the City of Los Angeles, advise, advocate or teach, or be or become a member of or affiliated with any group, association, society, organization or party which advises, advocates or teaches, or has within said period, advised, advocated or taught, the overthrow by force, violence or other unlawful means, of the Government of the United States of America or of the State of California . . . .\n\nIn \"Speiser v. Randall\", the U.S. Supreme Court addressed the State of California's loyalty oath, as required by a California law enacted in 1954, as a condition of exemption from property tax. In applying for property tax exemption as a veteran of World War II, ACLU lawyer Lawrence Speiser had refused to sign the loyalty oath. The court ruled that because the state required the claimant to show they are not advocating state overthrow and hence are not criminals within the applicable laws, the loyalty oath requirement to obtain the tax exemption is unconstitutional. The burden of proof for a criminal action rests on the state and not on the individual private citizen.\n\nThe oaths were repeatedly challenged on grounds that they violated the principles of freedom of speech and freedom of association. The United States Supreme Court avoided addressing these problems during the McCarthy Era. During the 1960s, it began striking down such oaths on the basis of vagueness and undue breadth. October 16, 1961 Tobias Simon and Howard Dixon argued \"Cramp v. Board of Public Instruction\" before the Supreme Court. In 1962 the Court struck down the Florida requirement that teachers swear \"I have not and will not lend my aid, support, advice, counsel or influence to the Communist party\". This decision was followed in 1964 by its lack of support for two oaths, one of which required teachers to promote respect for the flag, reverence for law and order, and loyalty to the institutions of the United States and the State of Washington. Arizona and New York teacher oaths affirming lack of association with subversive organizations were struck down in 1966 and 1967.\n\nNew York Education Law Section 3002 requires that any ‘teacher, instructor or professor in any [state] school or institution in the public school system … or in any school, college, university or other educational institution’ sign an oath pledging support for the federal and state constitutions. The law does not apply to foreign nationals, but only to United States citizens. The law was enacted in 1934 in response to a nationwide campaign by the American Legion. The law was challenged by a group of 27 faculty members from Adelphi University in 1966 because the oath constrained free speech, and because it selectively applied to faculty members but not staff. For unknown reasons, Adelphi faculty had never been required to sign the oath until 1966 when a staff member in the New York State Education Department discovered the oversight. On January 22, 1968, after moving through the judicial system, the United States Supreme Court affirmed an earlier District Court decision upholding the constitutionality of the law. This was the first occasion on which the Supreme Court evaluated the constitutionality of oaths of this type.\nThe last major loyalty oath case heard by the court was decided in 1972, when it upheld a requirement that State of Massachusetts employees swear to uphold and defend the Constitution and to \"oppose the overthrow of the [government] by force, violence, or by any illegal or unconstitutional method\".\n\nDuring the 2004 presidential campaign, the campaign of George W. Bush sometimes required all attendants at its rallies to take an oath. Those who refused to take the oath were not allowed to attend the rally. The \"loyalty oath\" was actually a pledge of endorsement. These endorsements were used during some of the campaign rallies in 2004. The Bush campaign asserted that the oath was valid because the president was conducting a partisan campaign event. Opponents countered that the oath was intrusive to individual conscience and denied general public access to the president.\n\nThe California state constitution requires all state workers who are US citizens to sign a loyalty oath as a term of employment. On February 28, 2008, the California State University, East Bay fired Marianne Kearney-Brown, a Quaker, for refusing to do so without inserting a reservation that her defense of the state and country would be done \"nonviolently.\" She was reinstated a week later, when she agreed to sign the oath when accompanied by a document prepared by the university that included the clarification \"Signing the oath does not carry with it any obligation or requirement that public employees bear arms or otherwise engage in violence.\"\n\nThe text of that oath begins:\n\"STATE OATH OF ALLEGIANCE I do solemnly swear (or affirm) that I will support and defend the Constitution of the United States and the Constitution of the State of California against all enemies, foreign and domestic; that I will bear true faith and allegiance to the Constitution of the United States and the Constitution of the State of California; that I take this obligation freely, without any mental reservation or purpose of evasion; and that I will well and faithfully discharge the duties upon which I am about to enter.\"\n\nArizona requires all employees of the state, its counties and localities to sign an oath of loyalty to the country and the state. The oath requirement predates statehood; it was successfully challenged in the 1960s over wording banning Communist Party membership, and was rewritten in 2003.\n\nIn the March 2008 State of Ohio presidential primary, some people might have been required to sign a loyalty oath in order to vote. Voters who wish to switch their party affiliation on Primary Election Day and who are challenged are supposed to sign a statement \"stating that the person desires to be affiliated with and supports the principles of the political party whose ballot the person desires to vote.\" The statement is signed under penalty of \"election falsification.\" If the challenged person refuses to sign the statement under penalty of election falsification, he is given a provisional ballot.\n\n\"The Cleveland Plain Dealer\", among others, thus describes the nature of the statement and effect of \"election falsification\": Anyone who signs this loyalty oath, but does not intend to honor it, can be prosecuted for \"election falsification\", a fifth-degree felony.\n\nThe statute, however, describes the offense differently: \"No person, either orally or in writing, on oath lawfully administered or in a statement made under penalty of election falsification, shall knowingly state a falsehood as to a material matter relating to an election in a proceeding before a court, tribunal, or election official, or in a matter in relation to which an oath or statement under penalty of election falsification is authorized by law...\" Thus the requirement is, arguably, more a statement of current intent than a loyalty oath's promise of future support.\n\nAvigdor Lieberman proposed that Israel's citizens should sign a loyalty oath or lose their right to vote. In his \"The Jewish Week\" article, Lieberman tried to explain his party's \"no loyalty – no citizenship\" campaign by writing: \"During Operation Cast Lead in Gaza, I was appalled by the calls for the destruction of the State of Israel and for renewed suicide bombings that some Israeli Arab leaders called for at pro-Hamas rallies. Although 'responsible citizenship' had always been part of our platform, I realized that this was a burning issue that had to take top priority.\" He explained his \"responsible citizenship\" platform and compared his position to the express policy of nations around the world, saying: \"In the U.S., those requesting a Green Card must take an oath that they will fulfill the rights and duties of citizenship.\"\n\nOn 10 October 2010 the Israeli cabinet approved a loyalty oath bill requiring all future non-Jews applying for an Israeli citizenship to swear loyalty to Israel as a Jewish and democratic state. However, on October 18, prime minister Netanyahu ordered Justice minister Ya'akov Ne'eman to extend Cabinet-level debate on the bill in order to add amendments which make the loyalty oath universal to both Jewish and non-Jewish immigrants who seek citizenship. This inclusion of Jewish immigrants was supported by the Anti-Defamation League.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17320526", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17320526", "title": "Manisch", "text": "Manisch\n\nManisch refers either to a dialect of rotwelsch (especially in the vicinity of greater Gießen, Germany) or a speaker thereof (plural: \"Manische\" or \"Manen\"). The term \"Manisch\" however, is also understood primarily throughout much of the German state of Hesse and parts of the Rhineland-Palatinate () to refer to the Manisch/Jenisch (alternatively \"gypsy\") elements of their vernacular. Several words are recognisably derived from Yiddish (e.g. \"malocho\", work) or Romany (e.g. \"pani\", water).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40251027", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40251027", "title": "Mathias E. Mnyampala", "text": "Mathias E. Mnyampala\n\nMathias E. Mnyampala (1917–1969) was a Tanzanian writer, lawyer, and poet. Mnyampala was born on 18 November according to a personal record form of 1956, but he wrote in his autobiography that he only knew the year with accuracy. He was born in the hamlet of Muntundya depending of the village of Ihumwa in Chamwino District in Dodoma region at the time part of German East Africa. He died on 8 June 1969 in Dodoma city, Tanzania. Mnyampala wrote in Swahili, the \"lingua franca\" of East Africa, not Cigogo, the native language of his ethnic group.\n\nMnyampala wrote more than 25 books. Among them was \"Historia, mila, na desturi za Wagogo\", a history of the Gogo people commissioned by the British colonial government. This book was translated into English by Gregory H. Maddox and published in 1995 as \"The Gogo: History, Customs, and Traditions\".\n\nMathias E. Mnyampala was working as a Tax Clerk for the Native Treasury in Dodoma during the colonial rule. He was intended to travel the whole Ugogo region in order to collect the tax and establish a census of the populations and their belongings. This is why he entered into contact with the \"Watemi\", the gogo traditional Kings and Rainmakers, who allowed him to write this historical book by giving him the oral sources of his ten years long work. The author was pioneering in Kiswahili in the early 1940s the ethno-history trend and in the same time was a faithful messenger for special correspondences between the then Freedom Fighters Movement called Tanganyika African National Union (TANU) and the \"Watemi\".\n\nAfter the Independence of Tanganyika in 1961, Mathias E. Mnyampala continued his administrative career in the Judicial system as a Magistrate. His former pro-TANU sympathies and his literary talent allowed him to become the national chairman of the association of Kiswahili poets called \"Usanifu wa Kiswahili na Ushairi Tanzania\" (UKUTA). This association was in charge to promote the diffusion of Kiswahili, the official language of the new Tanzanian Nation, by teaching to the Tanzanian masses the classical forms of Kiswahili poetry and their conservative transformations.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39033254", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39033254", "title": "Maynas language", "text": "Maynas language\n\nMaynas (Mayna, Maina), also known as Rimachu, is an extinct and unclassified language of Peru. Several sources have listed it as a dialect of Omurano, which also goes by the name \"Mayna\", but Hammarström (2011) showed that they are separate languages. Attempts have been made to link Maynas with the Jivaroan, Cahuapanan, Zaparoan, and Candoshi languages, but they have not yet been conclusive (Campbell & Grondona 2012). \n"}
{"id": "5036928", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5036928", "title": "Moling", "text": "Moling\n\nIn the construction industry, moling is a trenchless method used to lay pipes. During the moling process, a pneumatically-driven machine known as a mole forces its way through the soil along the desired path of the pipe. Moling avoids the need to dig a trench and can be used to lay water pipes and the heating coils of heat pump systems. \n\nRecently moles that are steerable have been developed allowing an operator to correct the track of the mole and to achieve curved bores.\nThe standard approach to moling is to dig a hole about 1 m square and 2 m deep. Such a hole is small enough that it can be dug by hand instead of by machine in inaccessible locations. The mole is then entered into the earth on the horizontal face at the bottom of this hole. A destination hole of similar proportions is also dug, and this is where the mole emerges. The mole itself is a steel cylinder about 60 cm long and 6 cm in diameter. It works as a pneumatic cylinder with pulsed compressed air causing the head of the mole to repeatedly hammer against the soil in front of the mole. Once the mole has passed through the earth the pipe can be pulled through the long horizontal hole. \n"}
{"id": "46567073", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46567073", "title": "Olivier Maulin", "text": "Olivier Maulin\n\nOlivier Maulin (born 1969 in Alsace) is a French writer. His works have been characterised by humour and satire. His 2006 novel \"En attendant le roi du monde\" received the Ouest-France Prize at the Étonnants voyageurs festival. The journalist Jérôme Leroy has described Maulin as an \"anar de droite\", a right-wing anarchist, and thereby grouped him with writers such as François Rabelais, Marcel Aymé, Antoine Blondin and the screenwriter Michel Audiard. Reviewing Maulin's novel \"Les Lumières du ciel\" for \"Le Figaro\", Frédéric Beigbeder described Maulin as a \"neo-hippie\".\n\n"}
{"id": "37764426", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37764426", "title": "Outline of natural language processing", "text": "Outline of natural language processing\n\nThe following outline is provided as an overview of and topical guide to natural language processing:\n\nNatural language processing – computer activity in which computers are entailed to analyze, understand, alter, or generate natural language. This includes the automation of any or all linguistic forms, activities, or methods of communication, such as conversation, correspondence, reading, written composition, dictation, publishing, translation, lip reading, and so on. Natural language processing is also the name of the branch of computer science, artificial intelligence, and linguistics concerned with enabling computers to engage in communication using natural language(s) in all forms, including but not limited to speech, print, writing, and signing.\n\nNatural language processing can be described as all of the following:\n\nThe following technologies make natural language processing possible:\n\n\n\nNatural language processing contributes to, and makes use of (the theories, tools, and methodologies from), the following fields:\n\n\n\n\n\n\nNatural language generation – task of converting information from computer databases into readable human language.\n\nHistory of natural language processing\n\n\n\n\nThe following natural language processing toolkits are popular collections of natural language processing software. They are suites of libraries, frameworks, and applications for symbolic, statistical natural language and speech processing.\n\n\n\n\nChatterbot – text-based conversation agent that can interact with human users through some medium, such as an instant message service. Some chatterbots are designed for specific purposes, while others converse with human users on a wide range of topics.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3515694", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3515694", "title": "Panoan languages", "text": "Panoan languages\n\nPanoan (also Pánoan, Panoano, Panoana, Páno) is a family of languages spoken in Peru, western Brazil, and Bolivia. It is a branch of the larger Pano–Tacanan family.\n\nThere are some 18 extant and 14 extinct Panoan languages. In the list, (†) means extinct, and (*) obsolescent (no longer spoken daily). Dialects are listed in parentheses.\n\n\nBoundaries between the Poyanawa, Chama, and Headwaters groups are somewhat blurred. Karipuna and Môa River Nawa may not be distinct languages, and Chiriba may not be Panoan at all.\n\nHundreds of other Panoan \"languages\" have been reported in the literature. These are names of groups that may have been ethnically Panoan, but whose language is unattested. They sometimes are assumed to be Panoan on no other evidence than that the name ends in \"-nawa\" or \"-bo\". A few, such as Maya (Pisabo), are unattested but reported to be mutually intelligible with a known Panoan language (in this case Matsés). The people speaking one of these supposed languages, Kontanawa, was rediscovered in 2002. However, no linguistic information is available, and it is not known if they speak a distinct language.\n\nMuch of the confusion surrounding Panoan languages is the number of homonyms among different languages. The principal ambiguous names are as follows:\n\nNeighboring languages of other families may also share the names of Panoan language. The table below ignores other homonyms further afield:\n\nThe Panoan family is generally believed to be related to the Tacanan family, forming with it Pano–Tacanan, though this has not yet been established (Loos 1999).\n\nExceptional to Panoan languages’ predominantly suffixal morphology are sets of approximately 30 morphemes primarily referring to parts or features of prototypical human and animal bodies (and, by analogical extension, of botanicals, manufactures, landscapes, and abstract space) which have been found to occur in almost all attested languages of the family (Fleck 2006: 59; Ferreira 2007, 2008; Amarante Ribeiro and Cândido 2008; Zariquiey and Fleck 2012: 385–386). \n\nThat these monosyllabic forms are productively affixed to the front of verbal, nominal, or adjectival roots has led many Panoanists to describe them as prefixes (e.g. Prost 1967 and Zingg 1998 [for Chakobo]; Faust 1973, Loriot et al. 1993, and Valenzuela 2003 [for Shipibo-Konibo]; Hyde 1980 [for Amawaka]; Eakin 1991[for Yaminawa]), while the forms’ resemblance and loose semantic correspondence to unbound, polysyllabic ‘body-part terms’ has led others to describe them as incorporated nouns (e.g. Loos 1999). More recent and detailed analyses of this feature in Matses (Fleck 2006) and Kashibo-Kakataibo (Zariquiey and Fleck 2012) have demonstrated that most body-part prefixes in these languages are not readily analyzable as synchronic allomorphs of the nouns they resemble.\n\nMany Panoan body-part prefixes semantically encompass a range of denotata beyond the strictly 'corporeal' by means of analogical extension. In Matses, for example, the prefix \"an-\" corresponds to the nouns \"ana\" ‘mouth, tongue, palm (of hand), sole (of foot), (arm)pit’; \"anmaëşh\" ‘gill slits (of fish)’; and \"anşhantuk\" ‘swampy depression in the ground’; but can itself be glossed also as ‘cavity, concave surface, interior, underside’; and ‘center (of path of stream)’ (Fleck 2006: 64). In the examples below, the prefix \"an-\" with the verb root \"kiad\" ‘learn’ expresses the learning of a specifically ‘oral activity’ while the prefix \"më-\" ‘hand, mortar, forearm, wrist, projecting carpal bones, elbow, finger, knuckles, fingernail, branch’ expresses the learning of a specifically ‘manual’ one:\n\nThe following example illustrates how \"an-\" can express locative information in non-corporeal, topographical space:\n\nWhile body-part prefixes in Kashibo-Kakataibo, as in Matses, are highly productive with verbs, they are used regularly with only a modest array of adjectives and nouns (Fleck 2006: 72; Zariquiey and Fleck 2012: 394–5). Zariquiey and Fleck (2012: 394) note that the Kashibo-Kakataibo \"words for 'skin', 'hair', and 'flesh'\" are regularly prefixed:\n\nDue to the paucity of detailed studies of Panoan body-part prefixes, explanations of their grammaticalization remain largely speculative. Fleck has hypothesized that \"Panoan (verb) prefixation evolved from past noun incorporation that co-existed with noun-noun and noun-adjective compounding that involved synchronic reduction of body-part roots\" (2006: 92). In light of their analysis of Kashibo-Kakataibo prefixation, Zariquiey and Fleck present two diachronic scenarios to orient future comparative work: \"(1) prefixation evolved from productive noun incorporation (prefixes have come from longer body-part nouns); or (2) Proto-Panoan body-part terms were monosyllabic forms that became bound, and most of the current body-part terms were later built up from these\" (2012: 408).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31580758", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31580758", "title": "Paragu", "text": "Paragu\n\nParagu (; ; 10 November 1921 – 9 April 2011) was a Burmese writer. He was a multilingual writer in Burmese, Japanese, Hindi and Pali and published 100 books until he died. He built a house-library called Santiniketan. He was buried at the Yayway Cemetery in Yangon.\n\n"}
{"id": "39292677", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39292677", "title": "Personal record", "text": "Personal record\n\nA personal record or personal best (frequently abbreviated to PR or PB) is an individual's best performance in a given sporting discipline. It is most commonly found in athletic sports, such as track and field, other forms of running, swimming and weightlifting.\n\nThe term \"PR\" came from the world of running, referring to a person's best time in a race of a specific distance. So, if someone runs their first 5K race in 28:45, that's their PR for the 5K distance. If they run faster than 28:45 in a subsequent 5K race, then they have a new PR for that distance.\n\nOver time, \"PR\" came to mean any new record in a sport that could be performed by a single person. Crossfit and powerlifting have popularized the term because a person's PR is used to measure their current level for a given exercise.\n"}
{"id": "27602763", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27602763", "title": "Radhakanta Deb", "text": "Radhakanta Deb\n\nSir Raja Radhakanta Deb Bahadur (1784–1867) was a scholar and a leader of the Calcutta conservative Hindu society, the adopted son and heir of Maharaja Nabakrishna Deb of Shovabazar Raj.\n\nAn accomplished scholar, Radhakanta was proficient in Sanskrit, Persian and Arabic. He published \"Shabda Kalpadruma\", a Sanskrit-Sanskrit language dictionary. Hara Kumar Tagore another contemporary Sanskrit scholar and scion of Tagore family had assisted him in compiling of \"Shabda Kalpadruma\". He also wrote articles that were published in Ishwar Chandra Gupta's newspaper Sambad Prabhakar.\n\nRadhakanta Deb always showed marked interest in promoting education, particularly English education among the Hindus; he also advocated female education. Radhakanta Deb was actively involved in the establishment and activities of the Calcutta School Book Society in 1817 and the Calcutta School Society in 1818. Radhakanta was an active member of the Agricultural and Horticultural Society of India since its establishment in 1818. He was founder-president British Indian Association in 1851, a position he held till his death. He helped David Hare and funded founding of the Hindu College in Calcutta.\n\nDespite his contribution to the cause of education, he was a strong upholder of social conservatism. Although \"sati\" was not practiced in his own family, he came forward to defend the custom when the Government contemplated its abolition. When Lord William Bentinck's government had finally abolished \"sati\" by a regulation in December, 1829, Radhakanta Deb, along with his conservative Hindu friends, was the leader a society called Dharma Sabha (founded by his father Gopi Mohun Deb), protested against this measure by presenting a petition to the Governor General on behalf of the orthodox section of the Hindu community.\n"}
{"id": "1933907", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1933907", "title": "Samburu language", "text": "Samburu language\n\nSamburu is a Maa language dialect spoken by Samburu pastoralists in northern Kenya. The Samburu number about 128,000 (or 147,000 including the Camus/Chamus). The Samburu dialect is closely related to Camus dialect (88% to 94% lexical similarity) and to the South Maasai dialects (77% to 89% lexical similarity). The word \"Samburu\" itself may derive from the Maa word \"saamburr\" for a leather bag the Samburu use.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33597873", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33597873", "title": "Sargam (music)", "text": "Sargam (music)\n\nSargam refers to singing the notes instead of the words of a composition, with use of various ornamentations such as meend, gamak, kan and khatka, as part of a khyal performance. This is generally done in medium-tempo as a bridge between the alap and taan portions. As an example, one could sing PmRSnSRRSRnSPnmPgmnnPmgmRSnS in raga Adana, given that raga's vadi-samvadi and the rules of the raga (see \"swara\" for explanation of the notes).\n\nThe use of sargam in khyal performances was introduced by Abdul Karim Khan, who was inspired by its use in Carnatic music. Aman Ali Khan further refined its use and made it an integral part of the Bhendibazaar style. Many of the khyal styles today use sargam to some extent, with the exception of the Jaipur-Atrauli and Gwalior styles.\n\n"}
{"id": "24402944", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24402944", "title": "School supply store", "text": "School supply store\n\nSchool supply stores sell teaching resources for parents, teachers and homeschoolers. These stores frequently carry a wide selection of educational materials and decorations for classroom teachers such as books pencils pens and many other supplies. A teacher store or learning store is often a member of the National School Supply and Equipment Association.\n"}
{"id": "294793", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=294793", "title": "Sensory deprivation", "text": "Sensory deprivation\n\nSensory deprivation or perceptual isolation is the deliberate reduction or removal of stimuli from one or more of the senses. Simple devices such as blindfolds or hoods and earmuffs can cut off sight and hearing, while more complex devices can also cut off the sense of smell, touch, taste, thermoception (heat-sense), and 'gravity'. Sensory deprivation has been used in various alternative medicines and in psychological experiments (e.g. with an isolation tank).\n\nShort-term sessions of sensory deprivation are described as relaxing and conducive to meditation; however, extended or forced sensory deprivation can result in extreme anxiety, hallucinations, bizarre thoughts, temporary senselessness, and depression.\n\nA related phenomenon is perceptual deprivation, also called the Ganzfeld effect. In this case a constant uniform stimulus is used instead of attempting to remove the stimuli; this leads to effects which have similarities to sensory deprivation.\n\nSensory deprivation techniques were developed by some of the armed forces within NATO, as a means of interrogating prisoners within international treaty obligations. The European Court of Human Rights ruled that the use of the five techniques by British security forces in Northern Ireland amounted to a practice of inhumane and degrading treatment.\n\nThere are two basic methods of restricted environmental stimulation therapy (REST): chamber REST and flotation REST.\n\nIn chamber REST, the subject lies on a bed in a completely dark and sound-reducing (on average, 80 dB) room for up to 24 hours. Their movement is restricted by the experimental instructions, but not by any mechanical restraints. Food, drink, and toilet facilities are provided in the room and are at the discretion of the tester, who can communicate with the participants using an open intercom. Subjects are allowed to leave the room before the 24 hours are complete; however, fewer than 10% actually do because they find the chamber so relaxing.\nChamber REST affects psychological functioning (thinking, perception, memory, motivation, and mood) and psychophysiological processes.\n\nIn flotation REST, the room contains a tank or pool. The flotation medium consists of a skin-temperature solution of water and Epsom salts at a specific gravity that allows for the patient to float supine without worry of safety. In fact, to turn over while in the solution requires \"major deliberate effort.\" Fewer than 5% of the subjects tested leave before the session duration ends, which is usually around an hour for flotation REST.\n\nFor the first 40 minutes, it is reportedly possible to experience itching in various parts of the body (a phenomenon also reported to be common during the early stages of meditation). The last 20 minutes often end with a transition from beta or alpha brain waves to theta, which typically occur briefly before sleep and again at waking. In a float tank, the theta state can last for several minutes without the subject losing consciousness. Some use the extended theta state as a tool for enhanced creativity and problem solving. Spas sometimes provide commercial float tanks for use in relaxation. Flotation therapy has been academically studied in the US and in Sweden with published results showing reductions of both pain and stress. The relaxed state also involves lowered blood pressure, lowered levels of cortisol, and maximal blood flow. Apart from physiological effects, REST seems to have positive effects on well-being and performance.\n\nSeveral differences exist between flotation and chamber REST. For example, with the presence of a medium in flotation REST, the subject has reduced tactile stimulation while experiencing weightlessness. The addition of Epsom salts to attain the desired specific gravity may have a therapeutic effect on hypertonic muscles. Since one of the main results of chamber REST is a state of relaxation, the effects of chamber REST on arousal are less clear-cut, which can be attributed to the nature of the solution.\n\nAlso, due to the inherent immobilization that is experienced in flotation REST (by not being able to roll over), which can become uncomfortable after several hours, the subject is unable to experience the session durations of chamber REST. This may not allow the subject to experience the changes in attitudes and thinking that are associated with chamber REST.\nAdditionally, the research questions asked between each technique are different. Chamber REST questions stemmed from research that began in the 1950s and explored a variety of questions about the need for stimulation, nature of arousal and its relationship with external stimulation. Practitioners in this area have explored its utility in the treatment of major psychiatric dysfunctions such as substance abuse. On the contrary, flotation REST was seen as more of a recreational tool as it was tested more for its use with stress-related disorders, pain reduction and insomnia.\n\nNumerous studies have debated which method is a more effective treatment process, however, only one has explored this statistically. Nineteen subjects, all of whom used chamber or flotation REST to induce relaxation or treat smoking, obesity, alcohol intake or chronic pain were analyzed. The statistic of interest, d, is a measure of the size of the treatment effect. For reference, d=0.5 is considered a moderate effect and d=0.8 a large effect. The 19 subjects who underwent chamber REST had d=0.53 and six flotation REST subjects showed d=0.33. Additionally, when examining subjects undergoing REST treatment and REST in conjunction with another treatment method, there was little difference.\nHowever, Flotation REST has the advantage of a lower duration required (45 minutes as opposed to 24 hours).\n\nThe use of REST has been explored in aiding in the cessation of smoking. In studies ranging between 12 months and five years, 25% of REST patients achieved long-term abstinence. REST, when combined with other effective smoking cessation methods (for example: behavior modification) resulted in long-term abstinence of 50%. Also, when combined with weekly support groups, REST resulted in 80% of patients achieving long-term abstinence. Comparatively, the use of a nicotine patch alone has a success rate of 5%.\n\nAlcoholism has also been the target of research associated with REST. In conjunction with anti-alcohol educational messages, patients who underwent two hours of REST treatment reduced alcohol consumption by 56% in the first two weeks after treatment. The reduction in consumption was maintained during follow-ups conducted three and six months after the first treatment. It is, however, possible that this is caused by the placebo effect.\n\nIn addition, REST has been tested to determine its effect on users of other drugs. A University of Arizona study used chamber REST as a complement to traditional outpatient substance abuse treatment and found that four years later, 43% of the patients were still sober and drug-free. Eight months later, no one in the control group remained clean.\n\nStudies have been conducted to test the effect of sensory deprivation on the brain. One study took 19 volunteers, all of whom tested in the lower and upper 20th percentiles on a questionnaire which measures the tendency of healthy people to see things not really there, and placed them in a pitch-black, soundproof booth for 15 minutes, after which they completed another test that measures psychosis-like experiences, originally used to study recreational drug users. Five subjects reported seeing hallucinations of faces; six reported seeing shapes/faces not actually there; four noted a heightened sense of smell, and two reported sensing a \"presence of evil\" in the room. People who scored lower on the first test experienced fewer perceptual distortions; however, they still reported seeing a variety of hallucinations.\nMany studies have been conducted to understand the main causes of the hallucinations, and considerable evidence has been accumulated indicating that long periods of isolation aren't directly related to the level of experienced hallucinations. \n\nSchizophrenics appear to tend to experience fewer hallucinations while in REST as compared to non-psychotic individuals. A possible explanation for this could be that non-psychotic individuals are normally exposed to a greater degree of sensory stimulation in everyday life, and in REST, the brain attempts to re-create a similar level of stimulation, producing the hallucinatory events.\nAccording to a 2009 study published in the \"Journal of Nervous and Mental Disease,\" the hallucinations are caused by the brain misidentifying the source of what it is currently experiencing, a phenomenon called faulty source monitoring.\nA study conducted on individuals who underwent REST while under the effects of Phencyclidine (PCP) showed a lower incidence of hallucination in comparison to participants who did not take PCP. The effects of PCP also appeared to be reduced while undergoing REST. The effects PCP has on reducing occurrences of hallucinatory events provides a potential insight into the mechanisms behind these events. \n\nThe five techniques of \"wall-standing; hooding; subjection to noise; deprivation of sleep; deprivation of food and drink\" were used by the security forces in Northern Ireland in the early 1970s. After the Parker Report of 1972, these techniques were formally abandoned by the United Kingdom as aids to the interrogation of paramilitary suspects.\n\nThe Irish government on behalf of the men who had been subject to the five methods took a case to the European Commission of Human Rights (\"Ireland v. United Kingdom\", 1976 Y.B. Eur. Conv. on Hum. Rts. 512, 748, 788-94 (European Commission of Human Rights)). The Commission stated that it \"considered the combined use of the five methods to amount to torture.\" This consideration was overturned on appeal, when in 1978 the European Court of Human Rights (ECtHR) examined the United Nations' definition of torture. The court subsequently ruled that the five techniques \"did not occasion suffering of the particular intensity and cruelty implied by the word torture,\" however they did amount \"to a practice of inhuman and degrading treatment,\" which is a breach of the European Convention on Human Rights, Article 3.\n\nIt their judgment the court states that:\n\nJosé Padilla, a United States citizen from Brooklyn, New York, was convicted in federal court of aiding terrorists in 2007 and was sentenced to 17 years and 4 months in prison. While awaiting trial, reports surfaced that, to persuade him to reveal information, he was subjected to sensory deprivation for weeks at a time. For 1,307 days, Padilla was kept in a 9' x 7' cell with no natural light, clock or calendar. When Padilla left his cell, he was shackled and fitted with heavy goggles and headphones. His counsel argues that while he was being interrogated Padilla was subjected to harsh lights and pounding sounds. While meeting with his counsel, they reported Padilla exhibiting facial tics, random eye movements and unusual contortions of his body. According to them, Padilla had become so \"shattered\" that he became convinced his lawyers were part of a continuing interrogation program and saw his captors as protectors.\n\nIn January 2008, the BBC aired a \"Horizon\" special entitled \"Total Isolation\". The premise of the show centered on six individuals, four men and two women, agreeing to be shut in a cell inside a nuclear bunker, alone and in complete darkness for 48 hours. Prior to isolation, the volunteers underwent tests of visual memory, information processing, verbal fluency and suggestibility.\n\nAfter the two days and two nights, the subjects noted that their inability to sense time, as well as hallucinations, made the experience difficult. Of the six volunteers, three experienced auditory and visual hallucinations—snakes, oysters, tiny cars and zebras. One was convinced their sheets were wet. Two seemed to cope well.\n\nWhen complete, the tests that the subjects took before the experiment were conducted a second time to test its effects. The results indicated all volunteers' ability to complete the simplest tasks had deteriorated. One subject's memory capacity fell 36% and all the subjects had trouble thinking of words beginning with a nominated letter; in this case, the letter \"F\". All four of the men had markedly increased suggestibility, although this was not the case with the women.\n\"It's really hard to stimulate your brain with no light. It's blanking me. I can feel my brain just not wanting to do anything.\"\n\n— Adam Bloom (volunteer subject) — \"Total Isolation\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8471462", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8471462", "title": "Spellbound!", "text": "Spellbound!\n\nSpellbound! is an educational computer game made and distributed by The Learning Company aimed at teaching spelling, vocabulary, and language development to children ages 7 to 12. The objective of the game is to play spelling-related games to qualify and compete for successively higher bracket spelling bees, concluding with the player competing in the national spelling bee. The original game, released in 1991, was compatible with computers running DOS 3.3 or higher. A 1993 CD release added spoken dialogue and was compatible with Windows 95 and Macintosh.\n\nMorty Maxwell along with his robots are entering Shady Glen school's Spelling Bee in the hopes of outspelling everyone. The Super Solvers aim to sharpen their skills and beat Morty at his own game in Washington D.C. with the aid of a Spellbinder computer.\n\nBefore starting the game, the player can choose which topics and word lists to use. Additionally, the player can create customized lists. Then the player can choose one of three difficulty levels, which affect how many spelling problems need to be solved throughout the game. To qualify for a spelling bee, the player must first earn a set number of points by playing spelling-related activities. These activities include:\n\n\nOnce in the spelling bee (also called \"Take a Trip!\"), the player will be contested by two other players and must correctly type words flashed out or vocally spoken to win the game. When the spelling bee is completed, the player moves on to the next level to prepare for another spelling bee. There are five levels of spelling bees in the game. As the levels get higher, the activities become harder.\n\nSpellbound! was released along with an Adlib Sound Card in \"The Learning Company's Family Sound Value Pack\".\n\n\"Spellbound!\" was moderately well received, getting two and a half stars out of five from Allgame\n"}
{"id": "853629", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=853629", "title": "Squib (writing)", "text": "Squib (writing)\n\nA squib is a brief satirical or witty piece of writing or speech, like a lampoon, or a short, sometimes humorous piece in a newspaper or magazine, used as a filler. It can be intended to ignite thinking and discourse by others on topics of theoretical importance—e.g., see MIT Press's journal, \"Linguistic Inquiry\", but is often less substantial than this and just humorous (see The Daily Squib).\n\nOne of the most famous squibs in English literature is \"The Candidate\" by Thomas Gray.\n\nIn linguistics, squibs may outline anomalous data but not suggest a solution. This usage in the field was popularized by John R. “Haj” Ross in the 1960s. A squib may also develop a minor theoretical argument. A particularly interesting variety of squibs are the so-called snippets, which are \"the ideal footnote: a side remark that taken on its own is not worth lengthy development but that needs to be said\". The online journal Snippets is dedicated to this type of squib.\n\n"}
{"id": "669992", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=669992", "title": "Star height", "text": "Star height\n\nIn theoretical computer science, more precisely in the theory of formal languages, the star height is a measure for the structural complexity \nof regular expressions and regular languages. The star height of a regular \"expression\" equals the maximum nesting depth of stars appearing in that expression. The star height of a regular \"language\" is the least star height of any regular expression for that language.\nThe concept of star height was first defined and studied by Eggan (1963).\n\nMore formally, the star height of a regular expression\n\"E\" over a finite alphabet \"A\" is inductively defined as follows:\n\n\nHere, formula_6 is the special regular expression denoting the empty set and ε the special one denoting the empty word; \n\"E\" and \"F\" are arbitrary regular expressions.\n\nThe star height \"h\"(\"L\") of a regular language \"L\" is defined as the minimum star height among all regular expressions representing \"L\".\nThe intuition is here that if the language \"L\" has large star height, then it is in some sense inherently complex, since it cannot be described \nby means of an \"easy\" regular expression, of low star height.\n\nWhile computing the star height of a regular expression is easy, determining the star height of a language can be sometimes tricky.\nFor illustration, the regular expression \n\nover the alphabet \"A = {a,b}\"\nhas star height 2. However, the described language is just the set of all words ending in an \"a\": thus the language can also be described by the expression \n\nwhich is only of star height 1. To prove that this language indeed has star height 1, one still needs to rule out that it could be described by a regular\nexpression of lower star height. For our example, this can be done by an indirect proof: One proves that a language of star height 0\ncontains only finitely many words. Since the language under consideration is infinite, it cannot be of star height 0.\n\nThe star height of a group language is computable: for example, the star height of the language over {\"a\",\"b\"} in which the number of occurrences of \"a\" and \"b\" are congruent modulo 2 is \"n\".\n\nIn his seminal study of the star height of regular languages, established a relation between the theories of regular expressions, finite automata, and of directed graphs. In subsequent years, this relation became known as \"Eggan's theorem\", cf. . We recall a few concepts from graph theory and automata theory.\nIn graph theory, the cycle rank \"r\"(\"G\") of a directed graph (digraph) is inductively defined as follows:\n\nIn automata theory, a nondeterministic finite automaton with ε-moves (ε-NFA) is defined as a 5-tuple, (\"Q\", Σ, \"δ\", \"q\", \"F\"), consisting of\nA word \"w\" ∈ Σ is accepted by the ε-NFA if there exists a directed path from the initial state \"q\" to some final state in \"F\" using edges from \"δ\", such that the concatenation of all labels visited along the path yields the word \"w\". The set of all words over Σ accepted by the automaton is the \"language\" accepted by the automaton \"A\".\n\nWhen speaking of digraph properties of a nondeterministic finite automaton \"A\" with state set \"Q\", we naturally address the digraph with vertex set \"Q\" induced by its transition relation. Now the theorem is stated as follows.\n\nProofs of this theorem are given by , and more recently by .\n\nThe above definition assumes that regular expressions are built from the elements of the alphabet \"A\"\nusing only the standard operators set union, concatenation, and Kleene star. \"Generalized regular expressions\" are defined just as regular expressions, but here also the set complement operator is allowed \n(the complement is always taken with respect to the set of all words over A). If we alter the definition such that taking complements does not increase the star height, that is,\n\nwe can define the generalized star height of a regular language \"L\" as the minimum star height among all \"generalized\" regular expressions \nrepresenting \"L\".\n\nNote that, whereas it is immediate that a language of (ordinary) star height 0 can contain only finitely many words, there exist infinite \nlanguages having generalized star height 0. For instance, the regular expression \nwhich we saw in the example above, can be equivalently described by the generalized regular expression\nsince the complement of the empty set is precisely the set of all words over \"A\". Thus the set of all words over the alphabet \"A\" ending in the letter \"a\" has star height one, while its \ngeneralized star height equals zero.\n\nLanguages of generalized star height zero are also called star-free languages. It can be shown that a language \"L\" is star-free if and only if its syntactic monoid is aperiodic ().\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42215801", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42215801", "title": "Suresh Khopade", "text": "Suresh Khopade\n\nSuresh Abaji Khopade (born 1 June 1951) is an Indian writer and a retired Indian Police Service (IPS) officer. He is a pioneer of community policing initiatives in the state of Maharashtra. He is well known for safeguarding then hyper-sensitive town Bhiwandi during the 1992 communal Riots. He is a recipient of the President’s Medal for Gallantry in 1993. He retired as Special Inspector General of CID.\n\nOn 13 March 2014 he was named as a Aam Aadmi Party candidate for Baramati South Lok Sabha constituency.\n\n"}
{"id": "8615191", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8615191", "title": "Talossa", "text": "Talossa\n\nTalossa, officially the Kingdom of Talossa ( ), is one of the earliest micronations — founded in 1979 by then 14-year-old Robert Ben Madison of Milwaukee and at first confined to his bedroom; he adopted the name after discovering that the word means \"inside the house\" in Finnish. Among the first such projects still maintained, it has kept up a web presence since 1995. Its internet and media exposure since the late 1990s contributed to the appearance of other subsequent internet micronations.\n\nTalossa claims several places on Earth as its territory, especially a portion of Milwaukee, calling it the \"Greater Talossan Area\"; no such claim, however, is recognized by the United Nations or by any other nation. As of June 23, 2016, the number of active citizens is said to be 213. Including those who are no longer citizens for various reasons, those who are under the age of 14 and so are not yet citizens, and those from the ESB Affair there are 493 total registered individuals.\n\nTalossan culture has been developed over the years by Robert Madison and other fans. The Talossan language, also created by Madison in 1980, claims a vocabulary of 35,000 root words and 121,000 derived words — including \"fieschada,\" meaning \"love at first sight\".\n\nTalossa was supposedly founded as a kingdom on December 26, 1979, by Madison, shortly after the death of his mother. Madison maintained Talossa throughout his adolescence, publishing a handwritten newspaper and designing a flag and emblem. During this time its only other members were about a dozen relatives and acquaintances. This changed in the mid-1990s, when a series of stories in the \"New York Times\" and \"Wired\", subsequently republished elsewhere, drew his website to popular attention. Several new \"citizens\" joined Talossa as a result, and Madison began to claim that he was the inventor of the term \"micronation\".\n\nMadison disestablished the \"kingdom\" in late 2005, but Talossa is still active today despite the lack of involvement of the original founder. \n\nMadison registered \"Talossa\" as a service mark in 2005 and created Talossa, Inc., a Wisconsin not-for-profit corporation. By 2013 the service mark had been cancelled and the corporation had been administratively dissolved.\n\nMadison invented Talossan ( or ) as a constructed language for his micronation. With its relatively large vocabulary, which is mostly French-based, it is said to be one of the most detailed fictional languages ever invented. The Association of Talossan Language Organisations (ATLO) maintains a website describing the language for new learners, providing language information, research and online translation to and from English. The ISO 639 designation is \"tzl\".\n\nThe language is overseen by the \"Comità per l'Útzil del Glheþ\" (\"Committee for the Use of the Language,\" CÚG), a group formed by Madison which periodically issues both \"Arestadas\" (decrees) to describe and document changes in language usage of the language and \"Pienamaintschen\" (supplements), to update the vocabulary list. The CÚG maintains a multi-lingual website providing access to the recent recommendations of the Committee.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10216019", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10216019", "title": "Xela Arias", "text": "Xela Arias\n\nXela Arias Castaño (Lugo 1962 - Vigo 2003) was a Galician poet and translator.\n\nShe translated works by Jorge Amado, Camilo Castelo Branco, James Joyce, Fenimore Cooper and Wenceslao Fernández Flórez into Galician.\n\n\n"}
