{"id": "34987345", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34987345", "title": "1775–1795 in Western fashion", "text": "1775–1795 in Western fashion\n\nFashion in the twenty years between 1775–1795 in Western culture became simpler and less elaborate. These changes were a result of emerging modern ideals of selfhood, the declining fashionability of highly elaborate Rococo styles, and the widespread embrace of the rationalistic or \"classical\" ideals of Enlightenment philosophes.\n\nIt is also at this time when the concept of fashion, as it is known today, begins. Prior to this point, clothes as a means of self-expression were limited. Guild-controlled systems of production and distribution, and the sumptuary laws made clothing both hard to come by and expensive for the common people. However, by 1750 the consumer revolution brought about cheaper copies of fashionable styles, allowing members of all classes to partake in fashionable dress. Thus, fashion begins to represent an expression of individuality. The constant change in dress mirrored political and social ideals of the time.\n\nAs the radicals and Jacobins became more powerful, there was a revulsion against high-fashion because of its extravagance and its association with royalty and aristocracy. It was replaced with a sort of \"anti-fashion\" for men and women that emphasized simplicity and modesty. The men wore plain, dark clothing and short unpowdered hair. During the Terror of 1794, the workaday outfits of the sans-culottes symbolized Jacobin egalitarianism.\n\nHigh fashion and extravagance returned to France and its satellite states under the Directory, 1795–99, with its \"directoire\" styles; the men did not return to extravagant customs. These trends would reach their height in the classically-styled fashions of the late 1790s and early 19th century. For men, coats, waistcoats and stockings of previous decades continued to be fashionable across the Western world, although they too changed silhouette in this period, becoming slimmer and using earthier colors and more matte fabrics.\n\nWomen's clothing styles maintained an emphasis on the conical shape of the torso while the shape of the skirts changed throughout the period. The wide panniers (holding the skirts out at the side) for the most part disappeared by 1780 for all but the most formal court functions, and false rumps (bum-pads or hip-pads) were worn for a time.\n\nMarie Antoinette had a marked influence on French fashion beginning in the 1780s. Around this time, she had begun to rebel against the structure of court life. She abolished her morning toilette and often escaped to the Petit Trianon with increasing frequency, leading to criticism of her exclusivity by cutting off the traditional right of the aristocracy to their monarch. Marie Antoinette found refuge from the stresses of the rigidity of court life and the scrutiny of the public eye, the ailing health of her children, and her sense of powerlessness in her marriage by carrying out a pseudo-country life in her newly constructed hameau. She and an elite circle of friends would dress in peasant clothing and straw hats and retreat to the hameau. It was out of this practice that her style of dress evolved.\n\nBy tradition, a lady of the court was instantaneously recognizable by her panniers, corset and weighty silk materials that constructed her gown in the style of à la française or à l'anglaise. By doing away with these things, Marie Antoinette's gaulle or chemise á la Reine stripped female aristocrats of their traditional identity; noblewomen could now be confused with peasant girls, confusing long standing sartorial differences in class. The chemise was made from a white muslin and the queen was further accused of importing foreign fabrics and crippling the French silk industry. The gaulle consisted of thin layers of this muslin, loosely draped around the body and belted at the waist, and was often worn with an apron and a fichu. This trend was quickly adopted by fashionable women in France and England, but upon the debut of the portrait of Marie Antoinette by Elisabeth Vigée-Lebrun, the clothing style created a scandal and increased the hatred for the queen. The queen's clothing in the portrait looked like a chemise, nothing more than a garment that women wore under her other clothing or to lounge in the intimate space of the private boudoir. It was perceived to be indecent, and especially unbecoming for the queen. The sexual nature of the gaulle undermined the notions of status and the ideology that gave her and kept her in power. Marie Antoinette wanted to be private and individual, a notion unbecoming for a member of the monarchy that is supposed to act as a symbol of the state.\n\nWhen Marie Antoinette turned thirty, she decided it was no longer decent for her to dress in this way and returned to more acceptable courtly styles, though she still dressed her children in the style of the gaulle, which may have continued to reflect badly on the opinion of their mother even though she was making visible efforts to rein in her own previous fashion excess. However, despite the distaste with the queen's inappropriate fashions, and her own switch back to traditional dress later in life, the gaulle became a popular garment in both France and abroad. Despite its controversial beginnings, the simplicity of the style and material became the custom and had a great influence on the transition into the neoclassical styles of the late 1790s.\n\nDuring the years of the French Revolution, women's dress expanded into different types of national costume. Women wore variations of white skirts, topped with revolutionary colored striped jackets, as well as white Greek chemise gowns, accessorized with shawls, scarves, and ribbons.\n\nBy 1790, skirts were still somewhat full, but they were no longer obviously pushed out in any particular direction (though a slight bustle pad might still be worn). The \"pouter-pigeon\" front came into style (many layers of cloth pinned over the bodice), but in other respects women's fashions were starting to be simplified by influences from Englishwomen's country outdoors wear (thus the \"redingote\" was the French pronunciation of an English \"riding coat\"), and from neo-classicism. By 1795, waistlines were somewhat raised, preparing the way for the development of the empire silhouette and unabashed neo-classicism of late 1790s fashions.\n\nThe usual fashion at the beginning of the period was a low-necked gown (usually called in French a \"robe\"), worn over a petticoat. Most gowns had skirts that opened in front to show the petticoat worn beneath. As part of the general simplification of dress, the open bodice with a separate stomacher was replaced by a bodice with edges that met center front.\n\nThe \"robe à la française\" or sack-back gown, with back pleats hanging loosely from the neckline, long worn as court fashion, made its last appearance early in this period. A fitted bodice held the front of the gown closely to the figure.\n\nThe \"robe à l'anglaise\" or close-bodied gown featured back pleats sewn in place to fit closely to the body, and then released into the skirt which would be draped in various ways. Elaborate draping \"à la polonaise\" became fashionable by the mid-1770s, featuring backs of the gowns' skirts pulled up into swags either through loops or through the pocket slits of the gown.\n\nFront-wrapping thigh-length \"shortgowns\" or bedgowns of lightweight printed cotton fabric remained fashionable at-home morning wear, worn with petticoats. Over time, bedgowns became the staple upper garment of British and American female working-class street. Women would also often wear a neck handkerchief, sometimes for modesty reasons. In surviving artwork, there are few women depicted wearing bedgowns without a handkerchief. These large handkerchiefs could be of linen, plain, colored or of printed cotton for working wear. Wealthy women wore handkerchiefs of fine, sheer fabrics, often trimmed with lace or embroidery with their expensive gowns.\n\nAn informal alternative to the dress was a costume of a jacket and petticoat, based on working class fashion but executed in finer fabrics with a tighter fit.\n\nThe \"caraco\" was a jacket-like bodice worn with a petticoat, with elbow-length sleeves. By the 1790s, caracos had full-length, tight sleeves.\n\nAs in previous periods, the traditional riding habit consisted of a tailored jacket like a man's coat, worn with a high-necked shirt, a waistcoat, a petticoat, and a hat. Alternatively, the jacket and a false waistcoat-front might be a made as a single garment, and later in the period a simpler riding jacket and petticoat (without waistcoat) could be worn.\n\nAnother alternative to the traditional habit was a coat-dress called a \"joseph\" or \"riding coat\" (borrowed in French as redingote), usually of unadorned or simply trimmed woolen fabric, with full-length, tight sleeves and a broad collar with lapels or revers. The redingote was later worn as an overcoat with the light-weight chemise dress.\n\nThe shift, chemise (in France), or smock, had a low neckline and elbow-length sleeves which were full early in the period and became increasingly narrow as the century progressed. Drawers were not worn in this period.\n\nStrapless stays were cut high at the armpit, to encourage a woman to stand with her shoulders slightly back, a fashionable posture. The fashionable shape was a rather conical torso, with large hips. The waist was not particularly small. Stays were usually laced snugly, but comfortably; only those interested in extreme fashions laced tightly. They offered back support for heavy lifting, and poor and middle class women were able to work comfortably in them. As the relaxed, country fashion took hold in France, stays were sometimes replaced by a lightly boned garment called \"un corset,\" though this style did not achieve popularity in England, where stays remained standard through the end of the period.\n\nPanniers or side-hoops remained an essential of court fashion but disappeared everywhere else in favor of a few petticoats. Free-hanging pockets were tied around the waist and were accessed through \"pocket slits\" in the side-seams of the gown or petticoat. Woolen or quilted waistcoats were worn over the stays or corset and under the gown for warmth, as were petticoats quilted with wool batting, especially in the cold climates of Northern Europe and America.\n\nShoes had high, curved heels (the origin of modern \"louis heels\") and were made of fabric or leather. Shoe buckles remained fashionable until they were abandoned along with high-heeled footwear and other aristocratic fashions in the years after the French Revolution, The long upper also was eliminated, essentially leaving only the toes of the foot covered. The slippers that were ordinarily worn with shoes were abandoned because the shoes had become comfortable enough to be worn without them. Fans continued to be popular in this time period, however, they were increasingly replaced, outdoors at least, by the parasol. Indoors the fan was still carried exclusively. Additionally, women began using walking sticks.\n\nThe 1770s were notable for extreme hairstyles and wigs which were built up very high, and often incorporated decorative objects (sometimes symbolic, as in the case of the famous engraving depicting a lady wearing a large ship in her hair with masts and sails—called the \"Coiffure à l'Indépendance ou le Triomphe de la liberté\"—to celebrate naval victory in the American war of independence). These coiffures were parodied in several famous satirical caricatures of the period.\n\nBy the 1780s, elaborate hats replaced the former elaborate hairstyles. Mob caps and other \"country\" styles were worn indoors. Flat, broad-brimmed and low-crowned straw \"shepherdess\" hats tied on with ribbons were worn with the new rustic styles.\n\nHair was powdered into the early 1780s, but the new fashion required natural colored hair, often dressed simply in a mass of curls.\n\n\nThroughout the period, men continued to wear the coat, waistcoat and breeches. However, changes were seen in both the fabric used as well as the cut of these garments. More attention was paid to individual pieces of the suit, and each element underwent stylistic changes. Under new enthusiasms for outdoor sports and country pursuits, the elaborately embroidered silks and velvets characteristic of \"full dress\" or formal attire earlier in the century gradually gave way to carefully tailored woolen \"undress\" garments for all occasions except the most formal.\n\nIn Boston and Philadelphia in the decades around the American Revolution, the adoption of plain undress styles was a conscious reaction to the excesses of European court dress; Benjamin Franklin caused a sensation by appearing at the French court in his own hair (rather than a wig) and the plain costume of Quaker Philadelphia.\n\nAt the other extreme was the \"macaroni\".\n\nIn the United States, only the first five Presidents, from George Washington to James Monroe, dressed according to this fashion, including wearing of powdered wigs, tricorne hats and knee-breeches.\nThe latest-born notable person to be portrayed wearing a powdered wig tied in a queue according to this fashion was Grand Duke Constantine Pavlovich of Russia (born in 1779, portrayed in 1795).\n\nBy the 1770s, coats exhibited a tighter, narrower cut than seen in earlier periods, and were occasionally double-breasted. Toward the 1780s, the skirts of the coat began to be cutaway in a curve from the front waist. Waistcoats gradually shortened until they were waist-length and cut straight across. Waistcoats could be made with or without sleeves. As in the previous period, a loose, T-shaped silk, cotton or linen gown called a banyan was worn at home as a sort of dressing gown over the shirt, waistcoat, and breeches. Men of an intellectual or philosophical bent were painted wearing banyans, with their own hair or a soft cap rather than a wig. This aesthetic overlapped slightly with the female fashion of the skirt and proves the way in which male and female fashions reflected one another as styles became less rigid and more suitable for movement and leisure.\n\nA coat with a wide collar called a frock coat, derived from a traditional working-class coat, was worn for hunting and other country pursuits in both Britain and America. Although originally designed as sporting wear, frock coats gradually came into fashion as everyday wear. The frock coat was cut with a turned down collar, reduced side pleats, and small, round cuffs, sometimes cut with a slit to allow for added movement. Sober, natural colors were worn, and coats were made from woolen cloth, or a wool and silk mix.\n\nShirt sleeves were full, gathered at the wrist and dropped shoulder. Full-dress shirts had ruffles of fine fabric or lace, while undress shirts ended in plain wrist bands. A small turnover collar returned to fashion, worn with the stock. In England, clean, white linen shirts were considered important in Men's attire. The cravat reappeared at the end of the period.\n\nAs coats became cutaway, more attention was paid to the cut and fit of the breeches. Breeches fitted snugly and had a fall-front opening.\n\nLow-heeled leather shoes fastened with shoe buckles were worn with silk or woolen stockings. Boots were worn for riding. The buckles were either polished metal, usually in silver (sometimes with the metal cut into false stones in the Paris style) or with paste stones, although there were other types. These buckles were often quite large and one of the world's largest collections can be seen at Kenwood House; with the French Revolution they were abandoned in France as a signifier of aristocracy.\n\nWigs were worn for formal occasions, or the hair was worn long and powdered, brushed back from the forehead and \"clubbed\" (tied back at the nape of the neck) with a black ribbon.\n\nThe wide-brimmed tricorne hats turned up on three sides were now turned up front and back or on the sides to form bicornes. Toward the end of the period, a tall, slightly conical hat with a narrower brim became fashionable (this would evolve into the top hat in the next period).\n\n\nIn the late 18th century, new philosophies of child-rearing led to clothes that were thought especially suitable for children. Toddlers wore washable dresses called frocks of linen or cotton. British and American boys after perhaps three began to wear rather short pantaloons and short jackets, and for very young boys the skeleton suit was introduced. These gave the first real alternative to boys' dresses, and became fashionable across Europe.\n\n\nWorking-class people in 18th-century England and the United States often wore the same garments as fashionable people: shirts, waistcoats, coats and breeches for men, and shifts, petticoats, and dresses or jackets for women. However, they owned fewer clothes, which were made of cheaper and sturdier fabrics. Working-class men also wore short jackets, and some (especially sailors) wore trousers rather than breeches. Smock-frocks were a regional style for men, especially shepherds. Country women wore short hooded cloaks, most often red. Both sexes wore handkerchiefs or neckerchiefs.\n\nMen's felt hats were worn with the brims flat rather than cocked or turned up. Men and women wore shoes with shoe buckles (when they could afford them). Men who worked with horses wore boots.\n\nDuring the French Revolution, men's costume became particularly emblematic of the movement of the people and the upheaval of the aristocratic French society. It was the long pant, hemmed near the ankles, that displaced the knee-length breeches culottes that marked the aristocratic classes. Working-class men had worn long pants for much of their history, and the rejection of culottes became a symbol of working class, and later French, resentment of the Ancien Régime. The movement would be given the all-encompassing title of sans-culottes, wearing the same as the working class. There was no culotte \"uniform\" per se, but as they were turned into a larger symbol of French society, they had certain attributes attributed to them. In contemporary art and description, culottes become associated with the Phrygian cap a classical symbol. French citizens on all levels of society were obligated to wear the blue, white and red of the French flag on their clothing, often in the form of the pinned the blue-and-red cockade of Paris onto the white cockade of the \"Ancien Régime\", thus producing the original \"Tricolore\" cockade. Later, distinctive colours and styles of cockade would indicate the wearer's faction although the meanings of the various styles were not entirely consistent and varied somewhat by region and period.\n\nIn the 17th century, a cockade was pinned on the side of a man's tricorne or cocked hat, or on his lapel. \n\n\nThese two images provide 1790s views of the development of fashion during the 18th century (click on images for more information):\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38648262", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38648262", "title": "1915 in philosophy", "text": "1915 in philosophy\n\n1915 in philosophy\n\n"}
{"id": "13687265", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13687265", "title": "Aaron E. Klein", "text": "Aaron E. Klein\n\nAaron E. Klein (July 8, 1930 – March 14, 1998, Betterton, Maryland) was the author of many science and history of science books for young readers. He was a 1953 graduate of the University of Pennsylvania.\n\nKlein had three careers: As an instructor at the secondary and college levels, in the field of educational publishing, and writing advertising and editorial copy to be read by physicians. Most of the time, Aaron Klein wrote his books as a part-time freelancer. He once described his writing career by saying: \"I work full time to make a living. Then I write a book, I buy a car.\"\n\nAaron E. Klein wrote on a variety of topics, including genetics, African-American scientists and inventors, polio vaccines, botany, extra-sensory perception, electron microscopes, electric cars, gadgets, railroads, trains and many others. His wife Cynthia Klein edited and indexed his books and typed his manuscripts. She also co-authored several of his books, including \"The Better Mousetrap: A Miscellany of Gadgets, Labor-Saving Devices and Inventions That Intrigue.\" and \"Mind Trips: The Story of Consciousness-Raising Movements.\"\n\nKlein was born and brought up in Atlanta, Georgia, where he lived until the age of seventeen. Growing up, he witnessed many examples of racism and at least one incident of deadly racial violence. He was also, as a youth, once beaten by his own friends for allowing black kids into his basement to see his chemistry set. Mr. Klein described this latter incident in the dedication of his book \"The Hidden Contributors, Black Scientists and Inventors in America.\"\n\nMr. Klein married in 1958 to Cynthia Klein. The Kleins raised two sons, Eric, born in 1960 and Jason, born in 1965.\n\nAaron was widowed in 1993, losing Cynthia to lung cancer. In 1995, Mr. Klein retired to Maryland's Eastern Shore of the Chesapeake Bay (Betterton, MD), hoping to sail and explore his interest in astronomy. He had a brief retirement, losing his own life to cancer in 1998. His ashes are interred in New Haven, Connecticut, next to his wife, Cynthia, and near the graves of his mother, stepfather, and his wife's parents. His epitaph, written by his older son, contains the words, \"Outstanding Intellect and Gentle Spirit.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "14756327", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14756327", "title": "Abel Herzberg", "text": "Abel Herzberg\n\nAbel Jacob Herzberg (17 September 1893 – 19 May 1989) was a Dutch Jewish lawyer and writer, whose parents were Russian Jews who had come to the Netherlands from Lithuania. Herzberg was trained as a lawyer and began a legal practice in Amsterdam, and became known as a legal scholar also. He was a Zionist from an early age, and around the time of the outbreak of World War II he attempted to emigrate with his family to Palestine. During the war he remained active in Jewish organizations until he was interned, with his wife, in Bergen-Belsen concentration camp, where his legal background and status as a legal scholar (which made him desirable to the Nazis in a possible exchange for Germans abroad) earned him a seat on a prisoners' court. After their captors moved them from Bergen-Belsen, he and his wife were later liberated by the Soviets and made it back to the Netherlands, where they were reunited also with their children. He continued his legal practice in Amsterdam, though he traveled to Palestine and was offered an administrative position in newly-founded Israel.\n\nHerzberg had written a play before the war, and in Bergen-Belsen he began keeping a diary. After the war he began a career as a writer, his first publication, \"Amor fati\", being a collection of essays on life in Bergen-Belsen. In 1950, he published a history of the persecution of the Jews as well as his diary of the camp; he is one of the earliest historians of the Holocaust. His published works include historical texts, journalism, diaries and autobiography, novellas, and plays.\n\nHerzberg was born in Amsterdam into a family of Russian Jews. His parents migrated from Lithuania, having been part of the exodus of Eastern European Jews of 1882–1914. Herzberg's father, a Zionist who traded in diamonds, was active in aiding Jewish migrants on their travels to the United States; the history of the Jews as well as the contemporaneous diaspora were frequently discussed in the family. Herzberg's father took the family to the Eighth Congress of the World Zionist Organization in The Hague, an important moment for young Abel, who later wrote about the experience of seeing the Zionist flag: \"There, for the first time in my life, I saw a Jewish flag and I knew we weren't dreaming. All we had to do was wait forty years, forty bitter years\".\n\nHerzberg attended public (non-denominational) school since his parents valued integration, but he experienced hostility from the other children; upon his introduction, his classmates sang an antisemitic song and he experienced further prejudice at the Barlaeus Gymnasium. Religious education was provided by his parents, though he admitted to being very unobservant when it came to dietary law. His maternal grandparents were hasidic, and described their mysticism in \"Brieven aan mijn kleinzoon\". After his final exams he traveled to Russia where he visited his grandfather. He witnessed first hand the poverty experienced by the Eastern European Jewry and the virulent antisemitism with which they lived. He was sensitive to misery, and subject to bouts of world-weariness; his religiosity, though, became mostly rationalised and abstract, especially since, contrary to his childhood expectations, the Messiah had not come: in 1915 he wrote Victor E. van Vriesland, \"God is dead\". Still, he had a religious consciousness, which he expressed ethically and morally.\n\nIn 1912 Herzberg took up law at the University of Amsterdam. He was conscripted at the beginning of the First World War but could have avoided military duty owing to his Russian citizenship. As a result of his father's prompting, he served for three and a half years, and was stationed in Purmerend. During this time he became more involved with Zionism, particularly after the Balfour Declaration. He had joined the Dutch Zionist Student Organisation (NZSO) in 1912, and served in a number of administrative functions in Zionist organizations, including editorship of the NZSO's magazine, \"Hatikwah\". With David Cohen he ran the Dutch Jewish Youth Foundation (JJF).\n\nIn 1918 Herzberg obtained his doctoral degree in law from the University of Amsterdam, and in his dissertation posited that the Jewish people should have a homeland in Palestine. He settled in Amsterdam to practice law, became president of the local chapter of the Zionist union, and in 1922 became a Dutch citizen, giving up his Russian citizenship. He married Thea Loeb, whom he had met in the NZSO, in 1923. In 1930 he joined the national board of the Dutch Zionist Union (NZB), and the next year became editor of their magazine. From 1934 to 1937 he served as the organization's president, and proved himself a brilliant public speaker, capable of enthusing audiences regardless of education or class.\n\nIn Germany, Wilhelm Spiegel, the husband of his wife's sister, was shot by Nazis on 12 March 1933, which confirmed Herzberg's forebodings of the growing danger to European Jewry. In the play \"Vaderland\" (1934), he alludes to the murder of his brother in law and warns of violent Nazi antisemitism and the state of denial felt by many German Jews. The play features a Jewish medical professor at a German university who refuses to accept the reality of the murderous antisemitism of the new regime until he is warned by a Polish Jew, but is murdered before he is able to flee the country. German Zionist Kurt Blumenfeld invited Herzberg to move to Palestine in 1938, and he and his wife did indeed travel to Palestine and spent a month there in early 1939, but did not emigrate; Herzberg said in a later interview that they did not have the funds to acquire residency in Palestine.\n\nAround the time of the German occupation, Herzberg and his family unsuccessfully attempted to escape to England. He continued to write about Jewish history for various Zionist magazines, and argued that the way to counter antisemitism is to fully accept one's Jewishness, even while he realized that the extensive integration of Dutch Jewry in the Netherlands made de-assimilation impossible. He continued to uphold the need for an awareness of an essential Jewishness, but found this less in knowledge, mysticism, or religiosity than in an atmosphere perceptible only for those who were receptive to it—an atmosphere he found most strongly in Palestine and Eastern Europe. He became editor of \"Het Joodsche Weekblad\", a Jewish weekly published from April 1941 on by the Joodse Raad voor Amsterdam, the Jewish Council that mediated between the Amsterdam Jews and the Germans; his former JJF colleague David Cohen was co-president of the council. The \"Weekblad\" was the only Jewish publication allowed by the Germans, and in June 1941 he left, dismayed that Cohen exercised too much editorial control.\n\nBy 1940 he was in charge of a youth institution in Wieringen, where Jewish youngsters, mostly from Germany, were prepared for migration to Palestine, but the Germans closed this in 1941. Herzberg moved back to Amsterdam to run a newly-opened school for his pupils from Wieringen, but was filled with pessimism about the future. In June 1941, 61 of his 200 Amsterdam pupils were arrested; none of them returned from Mauthausen-Gusen concentration camp. Their names and addresses had been obtained from Cohen and others on the Joodse Raad; the Sicherheitsdienst had promised the students would be returned. The Herzbergs moved to Blaricum, and he contemplated going into hiding but soon realized he could not tolerate the psychological burden; nor could he stomach the thought of endangering others. \n\nHerzberg and his wife were arrested in March 1943 and imprisoned in De Biezen, one of two locations in the town of Barneveld where prominent Jews were kept; Herzberg earned his status because commentary he had written on a liquor law proposed in 1932 had been published and become a standard work. He was not supposed to be deported; still, they were moved to Westerbork in September, and their children fled into hiding. Because by now, belatedly and almost miraculously, Herzberg and his wife had received a permit to enter Palestine because of his work in the Zionist movement, he was allowed to choose emigration. They were imprisoned on 11 January 1944 in Bergen-Belsen, which was to be their point of departure for Palestine. Bergen-Belsen was not a death camp: some of the prisoners were \"select\" Jews who were kept with an eye on their future value as exchange objects with other governments. Married couples were separated but were able to meet, and generally there was more food than in other camps. His legal background allowed him a seat on a prisoners' court, which dealt with matters among prisoners, typically theft. By the end of April, Herzberg and his wife were notified they would leave soon, but for unknown reasons they were left off the final list; as he said later this was his nadir, the greatest disappointment of his life.\n\nHerzberg began keeping a diary in August 1944; it would be published in 1950. Toward the end of the war conditions deteriorated and food became scarce; on 9 April 1945 the last prisoners, including the Herzbergs, were put on a train and moved all over Germany until they were finally liberated by the Soviets near Tröbitz, on 1 May, where they were treated for typhoid. Against the odds both survived, and after two months were repatriated, arriving in Amsterdam on 30 June. Their three children, including poet Judith Herzberg, likewise survived the Holocaust.\n\nHis daughter Judith later said that they were lucky to be reunited, but that her father spoke of nothing but the war, Palestine, and Zionism; for him, the question was how to cope with how humanity had become so debased, and how to continue to live meaningfully after mankind proved how deep it could sink: the problem was not so much guilt but rather the source of this evil.\n\nOn his return Herzberg joined the office of Rients Dijkstra (1902-1970), who had taken over part of his practice when Herzberg was imprisoned. Dijkstra owned half the shares of \"De Groene Amsterdammer\", a magazine, and Herzberg suggested they report on the trials of Nazi war criminals; public responses to the trials led Herzberg, prompted by Dijkstra, to start writing down his own thoughts on the war, his experiences, and his treatment by the Germans: these essays were published in \"De Groene\", and were later collected as \"Amor fati\" (1946), the first of many publications dealing with the war. His objective in \"Amor fati\" was not to indict the Germans, but rather to understand how Germany came to produce the Nazi war criminals, and to understand them as humans, in as much as they weren't just criminals.\n\nWhile his two oldest children emigrated to Palestine, Herzberg himself did not, even though he was displeased with the situation in the Netherlands. It seems that in part his work and the family's financial situation kept him in Amsterdam; after the foundation of the country of Israel he traveled there and was offered a position in the country's administration (Peretz Bernstein, Minister of Trade, was a friend), but declined, unhappy with the work and the state of the country. He gave legal counsel to Abraham Asscher and Cohen, who were indicted by the Jewish Council of Honor on charges of collaboration as wartime leaders of the Jewish Council.\n\nMeanwhile his career as a writer was progressing. in \"Kroniek der Jodenvervolging\" (\"Chronicle of the persecution of the Jews\", 1950) he posited that Christian hatred of Jews did not come about because Christians thought the Jews killed Christ, but because Judaism produced Christ. Hitler, he suspected, may well have believed in the Jews having been the chosen ones, resulting in a jealousy he could not bear. In that same year his diary from Bergen-Belsen, \"Tweestromenland\", was published. He continued to visit (and defend) Israel and attended the trial against Adolf Eichmann in 1961; he had met Eichmann in Bergen-Belsen, and published some fifty letters in \"De Volkskrant\" in which he reported on the trial. About Eichmann, he said:He had the reputation of being one of the greatest murderers in history. But what does such a man look like? A little bitty man was brought in, one who, it seemed, was put on trial for having stolen a bicycle or blackmailed his neighbor for a few hundred guilders. Does this little sly fellow have millions of deaths on his conscience? Is that why we all came here, for this colorless, slightly grubby, and balding person?\n\nHe regretted two things about the trial: it should have focused not just on the physical destruction of the Jews, but more on the attempt to destroy Judaism as an ideal; and the trial should have investigated the role of the individual in the entirety of the system, rather than just one single individual. He agreed with the verdict, though he was not happy with it, and proposed that the Israelis drop Eichmann with a parachute from a plane over Bavaria, to hand him back over to the Germans: \"you can have him\". He returned to Israel for \"De Volkskrant\" during the Six-Day War in 1967, but by the turn of the decade had become more critical of the country; he positively loathed the government of Menachem Begin that followed the Likud victory of the Israeli legislative election, 1977.\n\n\"Amor fati\", a collection of essays on the war and the Germans, first published in \"De Groene Amsterdammer\", won the Dr. Wijnaendts Francken-prijs in 1949. His diary, \"Tweestromenland\", was published in 1959; an English translation (by Jack Santcross, who arrived in Bergen-Belsen on the same transport as Herzberg, and left it the same day) was published in 1997 as \"Between Two Streams: A Diary from Bergen-Belsen\"; the title is partly a reference to the \"juxtaposition [of] the suffering of the Jews and the cruelty of the Nazis\". \"Om een lepel soep\" (\"For a spoonful of soup\") consists of recollections from his career in law; a reviewer noted a memorable passage: \"What has always stayed with me more than this is the image of an old judge who experiences the practice of law, in which he grew old, as something quite banal when he is forced to answer a human voice\".\n\nHerzberg was awarded the Constantijn Huygens Prize in 1964 and the P. C. Hooft Award in 1972 (his daughter Judith won the Constantijn Huygens Prize in 1994, and the P. C. Hooft Award in 1997). Since 1990, an annual lecture (organized by \"Trouw\" and the discussion center \"De Rode Hoed\" in Amsterdam) commemorates Herzberg and his legacy of Jewish humanism.\n\nHerzberg published plays, essays, a diary, historical writing, and novellas. His collected works were published in four volumes between 1993 and 1996.\n\n"}
{"id": "11049264", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11049264", "title": "Aftermath of the Holocaust", "text": "Aftermath of the Holocaust\n\nThe Holocaust had a deep effect on society in both Europe and the rest of the world. Its impact has been felt in theological discussions, artistic and cultural pursuits, and political decisions.\n\nThe after effects are still evident today in children and adults whose ancestors faced this horrible scene.\n\nGerman society largely responded to the enormity of the evidence for and the horror of the Holocaust with an attitude of self-justification and a practice of keeping quiet. Germans attempted to rewrite their own history to make it more palatable in the post-war era. For decades, West Germany and then unified Germany refused to allow access to its Holocaust-related archives in Bad Arolsen, citing privacy concerns. In May 2006, a 20-year effort by the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum led to the announcement that 30–50 million pages would be made available to survivors, historians and others.\n\nThe Holocaust and its aftermath left millions of refugees, including many Jews who had lost most or all of their family members and possessions, and often faced persistent antisemitism in their home countries. The original plan of the Allies was to repatriate these \"displaced persons\" to their countries of origin, but many refused to return, or were unable to as their homes or communities had been destroyed. As a result, more than 250,000 languished in displaced persons camps for years after the war ended.\n\nWith most displaced persons being unable or unwilling to return to their former homes in Europe, and with restrictions to immigration to many western countries remaining in place, the British Mandate of Palestine became the primary destination for many Jewish refugees. However, as local Arabs opposed their immigration, the United Kingdom refused to allow Jewish refugees into the Mandate territory. Countries in the Soviet Bloc made emigration difficult. Former Jewish partisans in Europe, along with the Haganah in British Mandate of Palestine, organized a massive effort to smuggle Jews into Palestine, called Berihah, which eventually transported 250,000 Jews (both displaced persons and those who had been in hiding during the war) to Mandate Palestine. After the State of Israel declared independence in 1948, Jews were able to emigrate to Israel legally and without restriction. By 1952, when the displaced persons camps were closed, there were more than 80,000 Jewish former displaced persons in the United States, about 136,000 in Israel, and another 10,000 in other countries, including Mexico, Japan, and countries in Africa and South America.\n\nThe few Jews in Poland were augmented by returnees from the Soviet Union and survivors from camps in Germany. However, a resurgence of antisemitism in Poland, in such incidents as the Kraków pogrom on August 11, 1945, and the Kielce pogrom on July 4, 1946, led to the exodus of a large part of the Jewish population, which no longer felt safe in Poland. Anti-Jewish riots also broke out in several other Polish cities where many Jews were killed.\n\nAn important reason for the atrocities was a widespread Polish belief that the Jews were supporters of the new communist regime and the new oppressors of the Polish state. This belief, termed \"Żydokomuna\", was fuelled by the fact that two of the three Communist leaders who dominated Poland between 1948 and 1956, Jakub Berman and Hilary Minc, were of Jewish origin. The attitude of Christian Poles towards Polish Jews hardened significantly and hundreds of Jews were killed in anti-Jewish violence. Some were simply killed for financial reasons. As a result of the exodus the number of Jews in Poland decreased from 200,000 in the years immediately after the war to 50,000 in 1950 and 6,000 by the 1980s.\n\nLesser post-war pogroms also broke out in Hungary.\n\nAs of May 6, 2016 45,000 Holocaust survivors are living below the country’s poverty line and need more assistance. Situations like these result in heated and dramatic protests on the part of some survivors against the Israeli government and related agencies. The average rate of cancer among survivors is nearly two and a half times the national average, while the average rate of colon cancer, attributed to the victims' experience of starvation and extreme stress, is nine times higher. The population of survivors that now live in Israel has now dwindled to 189,000.\n\nThere has been a recent resurgence of interest among descendants of survivors in researching the fates of their relatives. Yad Vashem provides a searchable database of three million names, about half of the known Jewish victims. Yad Vashem's \"Central Database of Shoah Victims Names\" is searchable over the internet yadvashem.org or in person at the Yad Vashem complex in Israel. Other databases and lists of victims' names, some searchable over the internet, are listed in Holocaust (resources).\n\nIn the decades preceding World War II, there was a tremendous growth in the recognition of Yiddish as an official Jewish European language, even a Yiddish renaissance, in particular in Poland. On the eve of World War II, there were 11 to 13 million speakers of Yiddish in the world. The Holocaust destroyed the Eastern European bedrock of Yiddish, though the language was rapidly declining anyhow. In the 1920s and 1930s the Soviet Jewish public rejected the cultural autonomy offered to it by the regime and opted for Russification: while 70.4% of Soviet Jews declared Yiddish their mother tongue in 1926, only 39.7% did so in 1939. Even in Poland, where harsh discrimination left the Jews as a cohesive ethnic group, Yiddish was rapidly declining in favour of Polonization. 80% of the entire Jewish population declared it mother tongue in 1931, but among high school students this number fell to 53% in 1937. In the United States, the preservation of the language was always a unigenerational phenomenon, and the immigrants' children quickly abandoned it for English.\n\nStarting with the Nazi invasion of Poland in 1939, and continuing with the destruction of Yiddish culture in Europe during the remainder of the war, Yiddish language and culture were almost completely rooted out of Europe. The Holocaust led to a dramatic decline in the use of Yiddish, as the extensive Jewish communities, both secular and religious, that used Yiddish in their day-to-day lives were largely destroyed. Around five million victims of the Holocaust, or 85% of the total, were speakers of Yiddish.\n\nHolocaust theology is a body of theological and philosophical debate concerning the role of God in the universe in light of the Holocaust of the late 1930s and 1940s. It is primarily found in Judaism; Jews were drastically affected by the Holocaust, in which six million Jews were murdered in a genocide by Nazi Germany and its allies. Jews were killed in higher proportions than other groups; some scholars limit the definition of the Holocaust to the Jewish victims of the Nazis as Jews alone were targeted for the Final Solution. Others include the additional five million non-Jewish victims, bringing the total to about 11 million. One third of the total worldwide Jewish population were killed during the Holocaust. The Eastern European Jewish population was particularly hard hit, being reduced by ninety percent.\n\nJudaism, Christianity, and Islam have traditionally taught that God is omniscient (all-knowing), omnipotent (all-powerful), and omnibenevolent (all-good) in nature. However, these views are in apparent contrast with the injustice and suffering in the world. Monotheists seek to reconcile this view of God with the existence of evil and suffering. In so doing, they are confronting what is known as the problem of evil.\n\nWithin all of the monotheistic faiths many answers (theodicies) have been proposed. In light of the magnitude of depravity seen in the Holocaust, many people have also re-examined classical views on this subject. A common question raised in Holocaust theology is \"How can people still have any kind of faith after the Holocaust?\"\n\nOrthodox Jews have stated that the fact that the Holocaust happened does not diminish the belief in God. For a creation will never be able to fully grasp the creator, just as a child in an operating theater can not fathom why men are cutting up a live man's body. As the grand Lubavitcher Rebbe once told Elie Weisel that after witnessing the holocaust and realising how low man can steep, who can we trust, if not God? Nevertheless, Orthodox Judaism does encourage us to pray and cry out to God, and complain to him how he lets bad things happen.\n\n Theodor Adorno commented that \"writing poetry after Auschwitz is barbaric,\" and the Holocaust has indeed had a profound impact on art and literature, for both Jews and non-Jews. Some of the more famous works are by Holocaust survivors or victims, such as Elie Wiesel, Primo Levi, Viktor Frankl and Anne Frank, but there is a substantial body of literature and art in many languages. Indeed, Paul Celan wrote his poem \"Todesfuge\" as a direct response to Adorno's dictum.\n\nThe Holocaust has also been the subject of many films, including Oscar winners \"Schindler's List\", \"The Pianist\" and \"Life Is Beautiful\". With the aging population of Holocaust survivors, there has been increasing attention in recent years to preserving the memory of the Holocaust. The result has included extensive efforts to document their stories, including the Survivors of the Shoah project and Four Seasons Documentary, as well as institutions devoted to memorializing and studying the Holocaust, including Yad Vashem in Israel and the US Holocaust Museum. The historic tale of the Danish Jews fleeing to Sweden by fishing boat is recounted in an award-winning American children's novel.\n\nHuge amounts of works of art were looted by the Nazis from Jewish art collectors and dealers, either through outright theft or fire sales under extreme duress. Thus, any work of art that existed prior to 1945 has a potential provenance problem. This is a serious obstacle for anyone who currently collects pre-1945 European art. To avoid wasting thousands or even millions of dollars, they must verify (normally with the assistance of an art historian and a lawyer specializing in art law) that potential acquisitions were \"not\" stolen by the Nazis from a Holocaust victim. The highest-profile legal case arising from this problem is the U.S. Supreme Court decision of \"Republic of Austria v. Altmann\" (2006), in which the Court held that U.S. courts could retroactively apply the Foreign Sovereign Immunities Act of 1976 to Austria for torts that allegedly occurred before 1976.\n\nIn the immediate aftermath of the Second World War, the Jewish Agency led by Chaim Weizmann submitted to the Allies a memorandum demanding reparations to Jews by Germany but it received no answer. In March 1951, a new request was made by Israel's foreign minister Moshe Sharett which claimed global recompense to Israel of $1.5 billion based on the financial cost absorbed by Israel for the rehabilitation of 500,000 Jewish survivors. West German Chancellor Konrad Adenauer accepted these terms and declared he was ready to negotiate other reparations. A Conference on Jewish Material Claims against Germany was opened in New York City by Nahum Goldmann in order to help with individual claims. After negotiations, the claim was reduced to a sum of $845 millions direct and indirect compensations to be installed in a period of 14 years. In 1988, West Germany allocated another $125 million for reparations.\n\nIn 1999, many German industries such as Deutsche Bank, Siemens or BMW faced lawsuits for their role in the forced labour during World War II. In order to dismiss these lawsuits, Germany agreed to raise $5 billions of which Jewish forced laborers still alive could apply to receive a lump sum payment of between $2,500 and $7,500. In 2012, Germany agreed to pay a new reparation of €772 millions as a result of negotiations with Israel.\n\nIn 2014, the SNCF, the French state-owned railway company, was compelled to allocate $60 millions to American Jewish Holocaust survivors for its role in the transport of deportees to Germany. It corresponds to approximately $100,000 per survivor. Although the SNCF was forced by German authorities to cooperate in providing transport for French Jews to the border and did not make any profit from this transport, according to Serge Klarsfeld, president of the organization Sons and Daughters of Jewish Deportees from France.\n\nThese reparations were sometimes criticized in Israel where they were seen as \"blood money\". The American professor Norman Finkelstein wrote \"The Holocaust Industry\" to denounce how the American Jewish establishment exploits the memory of the Nazi Holocaust for political and financial gain, as well as to further the interests of Israel. These reparations also led to a massive scam where $57 millions were fraudulently given to thousands of people who were not eligible for the funds.\n\nWhile the restitution movements of the mid-1990s reunited some families with their stolen property, Holocaust remembrance also served as an important part of the reparation and restitution movement. The main idea of Holocaust remembrance comes from Dan Diner's article \"Restitution and Memory: The Holocaust in European Political Cultures\" which is the idea that Europe is now bound together by a collective memory of the Holocaust. This unified memory is one of the main reasons Diner lists for the flourishing of the restitution movement of the mid-1990s, following that of the initial movement immediately after World War II. This unified memory allowed for all European countries to come together after such a tragic event to establish the Holocaust at its center as one the most damaging occurrences of the 20th century leading to a greater consciousness and awareness of this horrific event, in addition, to beginning countless discourses on the topic. Immediately after the Holocaust, countries such as the United States were preoccupied with the Cold War, whereas countries like Germany were controlled by foreign powers, and the Holocaust was not the main concern. Only as time went on did Europe begin to understand the importance of restitution and reparations. As the restoration of property increased, an increase in the memories for Holocaust survivors was found to be a direct correlation. The connection between property and memory proved to be a key in unlocking more details about the Holocaust, further adding to this collective European memory, and thereby increasing and furthering the restitution movement.\n\nThe United Nations General Assembly voted on November 1, 2005, to designate January 27 as the \"International Day of Commemoration in Memory of the Victims of the Holocaust.\" January 27, 1945, is the day that the former Nazi concentration and extermination camp of Auschwitz-Birkenau was liberated. The day had already been observed as Holocaust Memorial Day a number of countries. Israel and the Jewish diaspora observe Yom HaShoah Ve-Hagvora, the \"Day of Remembrance of the Holocaust and the courage of the Jewish people,\" on the 27th day of the Hebrew month of Nisan, which generally falls in April.\n\nHolocaust denial is the claim that the genocide of Jews during World War II–usually referred to as the Holocaust–did not occur in the manner and to the extent described by current scholars.\n\nKey elements of this claim are the rejection of the following: that the Nazi government had a policy of deliberately targeting Jews and people of Jewish ancestry for extermination as a people; that between five and seven million Jews were systematically killed by the Nazis and their allies; and that genocide was carried out at extermination camps using tools of mass murder, such as gas chambers.\n\nMany Holocaust deniers do not accept the term \"denial\" as an appropriate description of their point of view, and use the term \"Holocaust revisionism\" instead. Scholars, however, prefer the term \"denial\" to differentiate Holocaust deniers from historical revisionists, who use established historical methods.\n\nMost Holocaust denial claims imply, or openly state, that the Holocaust is a hoax arising out of a deliberate Jewish conspiracy to advance the interest of Jews at the expense of other peoples. For this reason, Holocaust denial is generally considered to be an antisemitic conspiracy theory. The methods of Holocaust deniers are often criticized as based on a predetermined conclusion that ignores extensive historical evidence to the contrary.\n\nDocumentaries that have to do with life after the Holocaust:\n\nExternal links, references, and other resources are listed at Holocaust (resources).\n"}
{"id": "49098584", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49098584", "title": "Alexey Kryukov", "text": "Alexey Kryukov\n\nAleksey (Mihaylovich) Kryukov () is a Russian historian, teaching Latin and Ancient Greek at the Moscow State University. His greater field of study is Byzantine philosophy. Besides that he is known as the creator of several TrueType typefaces, resembling historical styles for the Greek, Cyrillic and Latin alphabets, among them Theano Didot, a revival of the Didot typeface of Firmin Didot.\n\n"}
{"id": "21819232", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21819232", "title": "Anthony Milner (historian)", "text": "Anthony Milner (historian)\n\nAnthony Milner is an Australian historian of Southeast Asia – concerned primarily with the history of ideas – and a commentator on Australia-Asia relationships. His writings on Malay history and society – and the history of Islam in Southeast Asia – include \"Kerajaan: Malay Political Culture on the Eve of Colonial Rule (1982)\", an interdisciplinary (history/anthropology) study, published in a new edition in 2016. He is also co-editor of the series of volumes, \"Australia in Asia\" (see below), which examine the role of culture and values in Australia-Asia relationships; and of the Asialink report on Australia-ASEAN relations, \"Our Place in the Asian Century: Southeast Asia as the Third Way\" (2012). Milner is professorial fellow and international director at Asialink, The University of Melbourne, and visiting professor at the Asia-Europe Institute, University of Malaya. He was dean of Asian studies at the Australian National University (1996–2005), and Basham Professor of Asian History (1924-2013). He is now emeritus professor of the Australian National University.\n\nMilner has been concerned with the historical and cultural processes that shape the Asian region, and which also influence Australia's opportunities and security. In the last few years he has been focused on defining Southeast Asian – especially Malaysian – approaches to international relations and regionalism. He is described, sometimes critically, as adopting a post-modern approach. Milner has been a strong advocate of Track II diplomacy – arguing that the globalising and democratising of international relations demands an enhanced role for non-government interaction. \n\nMilner is co-chair of the Australian Committee of the Council for Security Cooperation in the Asia-Pacific. He has also played a leading role in the development of the 'Asialink Conversations', and in the establishment of an Australia-New Zealand dialogue with the influential network ASEAN-ISIS. He has been research chair of the Australian Institute of International Affairs and editor of the Asian Studies Review of Asian Studies Association of Australia. While acknowledging the Howard Government's (1996–2008) practical achievements in Asia policy, Milner lamented its neglect of Asia education and the general 'narrowing of cultural horizons on the part of the Australian community'. He expressed strong disappointment regarding the Asian diplomacy of the later Rudd Governments (2007–2010, 2013).\n\nMilner has also been member at the Institute for Advanced Study, Princeton, and has held visiting professorships at the National University of Singapore (Raffles Visiting Professor of History), Tokyo University of Foreign Studies, Kyoto University, the National University of Malaysia and the University of Malaya. In 2014–2015 he was Tun Hussein Onn Chair of International Studies at the Malaysian Institute of Strategic and International Studies. In the 1990s, he was director of the Australia-Asia Perceptions Project of the Academy of the Social Sciences in Australia. He has been a member of the Australian Government's Foreign Affairs Council (1998–2008), a panel member on the Australian Research Council, and a member of the Founding Committees of the Government's Australia-Malaysia Institute and Australia-Thailand Institute. \n\nMilner received his B.A from Monash University and PhD from Cornell University under John Legge and Oliver Wolters. He also worked with the leading international cultural anthropologist Clifford Geertz. \n\nAwarded Member of the Order of Australia in 2007 for \"service to education in the field of Asian studies as an academic and author, and to international relations through the development of cross-cultural education and outreach activities\". He was elected a Fellow of the Academy of the Social Sciences in Australia in 1995 and a Fellow of the Royal Historical Society in 2017, and was made a National Life Member of the Australian Institute of International Affairs in 2007. In 2017 he received the prestigious Merdeka Award for \"outstanding contribution to the People of Malaysia\". He was presented with an Honorary Degree as Doctor of Humanities by the University of Malaya in the same year. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "16960713", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16960713", "title": "Archaeological illustration", "text": "Archaeological illustration\n\nArchaeological Illustration is a form of technical illustration that records material derived from an archaeological context graphically.\n\nArchaeological Illustration encompasses a number of sub disciplines. These are:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22707983", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22707983", "title": "Branko Marušič", "text": "Branko Marušič\n\nBranko Marušič (born 1938) is a Slovenian historian.\n\nBorn to an upper middle class Slovene family in Gorizia, Italy, he moved with the family to the Yugoslav side of the Yugoslav-Italian border in 1947, and has been living in Solkan since. After finishing the Nova Gorica Grammar School, he studied history at the University of Ljubljana. \n\nA specialist on political history of the 19th century, he has written many volumes on a variety of topics, focusing on the history of Slovenian-Italian border regions of Goriška and Venezia Giulia. He writes both in Slovene and Italian. He is for his studies of Slovene-Italian relations in the 19th and 20th century, and has been praised for his contributions in the cultivation of Slovene-Italian cultural-historical dialogue. He was member of the Slovenian-Italian Cultural-Historical Commission, established by the governments of the two countries to shed light on the historical relationship between the two peoples from 1880 to 1954.\n\nHe is currently senior researcher at the Scientific Research Centre of the Slovenian Academy of Sciences and Arts.\n\nHe is the brother of the politician Tomaž Marušič and of the Landscape Architect Ivan Janez Marušič. \n"}
{"id": "15801820", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15801820", "title": "C. T. Hsia", "text": "C. T. Hsia\n\nHsia Chih-tsing or C. T. Hsia (February 18, 1921 – December 29, 2013) was a Chinese literary critic and scholar. He was born in Pudong, Shanghai. Hsia graduated from the now-defunct University of Shanghai. In September 1946, he followed his older brother, (1916-1965) to Peking University to accept the position of teaching assistant and continued to study Western literature. His thesis on William Blake won him a scholarship to Yale University. He moved to the United States in 1947, and was awarded a Ph.D. from Yale University in 1951. Hsia then went on to teach at the University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Michigan, 1955-56, the Huston-Tillotson College, Austin, Texas, 1956–57, the State University of New York, Potsdam, New York 1957-61, and the University of Pittsburgh 1961-62. He joined Columbia University in 1961 as professor of Chinese Literature, the successor to Chinese translator Chi-Chen Wang ( 1899－2001). He held this position until his retirement in 1991, when he became Professor Emeritus.\n\nHsia's \"A History of Modern Chinese Fiction\" (Yale University Press, 1961), is credited with introducing the West to the literary movements of mainland China of the 1930s and 1940s and evaluating them with contemporary literary theory. Hsia was thus considered a pioneer in this aspect, and the book has been reprinted several times. Hsia's treatment established the reputations of several writers such as Qian Zhongshu, Eileen Chang and Shen Congwen.\n\n\"A History Of Modern Chinese Fiction\" also provoked criticism. For example, the Czech critic Jaroslav Prusek denounced Hsia's research and writing as \"unscientific\" due to his unfavorable view of Lu Xun.\n\n\"The Classic Chinese Novel\", first published in 1968 and reprinted several times, is an introduction for Western readers to the six novels of the Ming and Qing dynasties which Hsia considered to be of highest value: \"Romance of the Three Kingdoms\"; \"Water Margin\"; \"Journey to the West\"; \"Jin Ping Mei\" (\"Golden Lotus\"); \"The Unofficial History of the Scholars\"; and \"Dream of the Red Chamber\".\n\nThe critic Andrew H. Plaks says that the term \"six classic novels\" (\"gudian xiaoshuo\") as a \"neologism of twentieth century scholarship, seems to have come into common use under the influence of C. T. Hsia's \"Classic Chinese Novel\", a view now reflected in a wide variety of critical writings.\" \n\nThe introduction to the third edition of Hsia's \"A History of Modern Chinese Fiction\" by David Der-Wei Wang offers several suggestions for interpreting Hsia's approach to literary criticism. In the case of \"A History of Modern Chinese Fiction,\" Wang argues that this voluminous work remains relevant although it is much less theory-laden than its counterparts for Western literary texts. Wang observes that Hsia's literary history was controversial in Mainland China due to its perceived hostility to leftist literature. Nevertheless, Hsia's work, according to Wang, avoids being \"reflectionist\" or \"moralist.\"\n\nIn 2006, Hsia was inducted into the Academia Sinica at the age of 85, rendering him the oldest person ever to receive this appointment. Hsia joked about this experience, saying that he felt like \"a new bride\".\n\nHsia died in New York City on December 29, 2013 at the age of 92.\n\nA funeral service for him took place on Jan. 18, 2014. Tributes to Hsia written by nine scholars appeared in the journal Chinese Literature Today (vol. 4, no. 1) in 2014.\n\n"}
{"id": "8998406", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8998406", "title": "China Historical Geographic Information System", "text": "China Historical Geographic Information System\n\nThe China Historical Geographic Information System (CHGIS) is a Historical GIS project for creating a database of populated places and historical administrative units for the period of Chinese history between 222 BCE and 1911 CE. The project creates a dataset which track changes in place names, administrative status, and geography. It is a joint project of Harvard University and Fudan University. Its director is Professor Peter K. Bol of Harvard.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5546586", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5546586", "title": "Christian Topography", "text": "Christian Topography\n\nThe Christian Topography (, ) is a 6th-century work, one of the earliest essays in scientific geography written by a Christian author. It was originally written as five books by Cosmas Indicopleustes and expanded to ten to twelve books around 550 AD.\n\nWhile most of the Christians of the same period maintained that the Earth was a sphere the work advances the idea that the world is flat, and that the heavens form the shape of a box with a curved lid, and especially attacks the idea that the heavens were spherical and in motion, now known as the geocentric model of the universe. The author cites passages of scripture which he interprets originally in order to support his thesis, and attempts to argue down the idea of a spherical earth by stigmatizing it as \"pagan\". An early surviving reference to the work is by Patriarch Photios I of Constantinople in the 9th century AD. Photius condemns the style and syntax of the text as well as the honesty of the author. More recent authors tend to agree with Photius on the stylistic points, but do find the author generally reliable for geographical and historical references. Edward Gibbon, for example, said \"the nonsense of the Monk was, nevertheless, mingled with the practical knowledge of the traveller\" and used it in writing \"The History of the Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire\".\n\nThe \"Topography\" is often cited as evidence that Christianity introduced the idea of the flat-earth into the world, and brought in the age of ignorance. The latter pages of his work are devoted to rebutting the criticism of his fellow monks that what he was saying was wrong. He repeatedly denounces \"those reprobate Christians who, ..., prefer, through their perverse folly or downright wickedness, to adopt the miserable Pagan belief that earth and heaven are spherical, and that there are Antipodes on whom the rain must fall \"up\".\" Raymond Beazley, in the first volume of \"The Dawn of Modern Geography\" (1897), said \n\nBesides the cosmological elements of the book, \"Christian Topography\" provides insight into the geographical knowledge of 6th century Byzantium. \"Indicopleustes\" means \"Indian voyager\". While it is known from classical literature that there had been trade between the Roman Empire and India, Cosmas was one of the individuals who had actually made the journey. Indeed, we learn from his book that he had travelled over much of the Red Sea coast, and as far as modern Sri Lanka. He described and sketched some of what he saw in his \"Topography\". Some of these have been copied into the existing manuscripts.\n\nWhen not expounding his cosmology, Cosmas proves to be an interesting and reliable guide, providing a window into a world that has since disappeared. He happened to be in Ethiopia when the King of Axum was preparing a 522 or 525 AD military expedition to attack Jewish Arabs in Yemen. He recorded now-vanished inscriptions such as the Monumentum Adulitanum (which he mistakenly attributed to Ptolemy III Euergetes).\n\nThree nearly complete manuscripts are known to exist. The earliest and best is from the 9th century, and is in the Vatican Library. This text has only ten books. Two closely related manuscripts of the 11th century, one from the Saint Catherine's Monastery and the other probably originally from the Iviron monastery of Mount Athos, contain twelve books and comment on the prophets in the same order that Theodore of Mopsuestia preferred rather than in Septuagint order. The eleventh and twelfth books may originally have been parts of other works by the same author. Portions of book five appear more frequently as a marginal commentary upon the psalms, and it is the name given to the author in these commentaries that is now used.\n\nDavid C. Lindberg asserts: \"Cosmas was not particularly influential in Byzantium, but he is important for us because he has been commonly used to buttress the claim that all (or most) medieval people believed they lived on a flat earth. This claim...is totally false. Cosmas is, in fact, the only medieval European known to have defended a flat earth cosmology, whereas it is safe to assume that all educated Western Europeans (and almost one hundred percent of educated Byzantines), as well as sailors and travellers, believed in the earth's sphericity.\"\n\n\"This article uses text taken from the Preface to the Online English translation of the Christian Topography, which is in the public domain.\"\n"}
{"id": "130440", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130440", "title": "Clearview, Oklahoma", "text": "Clearview, Oklahoma\n\nClearview is a town in Okfuskee County, Oklahoma, United States. The population was 56 at the 2000 census. It was historically an all-black town and was platted by the Lincoln Townsite Company and designated as Lincoln.\n\nClearview is located at .\n\nAccording to the United States Census Bureau, the town has a total area of , all land.\n\nAs of the census of 2000, there were 56 people, 24 households, and 13 families residing in the town. The population density was 320.7 people per square mile (127.2/km). There were 34 housing units at an average density of 194.7 per square mile (77.2/km). The racial makeup of the town was 7.14% White, 75.00% African American, 12.50% Native American, and 5.36% from two or more races.\n\nThere were 24 households out of which 25.0% had children under the age of 18 living with them, 29.2% were married couples living together, 20.8% had a female householder with no husband present, and 45.8% were non-families. 45.8% of all households were made up of individuals and 41.7% had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older. The average household size was 2.33 and the average family size was 3.31.\n\nIn the town, the population was spread out with 26.8% under the age of 18, 5.4% from 18 to 24, 30.4% from 25 to 44, 16.1% from 45 to 64, and 21.4% who were 65 years of age or older. The median age was 38 years. For every 100 females, there were 75.0 males. For every 100 females age 18 and over, there were 78.3 males.\n\nThe median income for a household in the town was $16,250, and the median income for a family was $22,500. Males had a median income of $62,500 versus $16,250 for females. The per capita income for the town was $11,607. There were 20.0% of families and 40.7% of the population living below the poverty line, including 52.9% under eighteen and 58.3% over 64.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8467077", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8467077", "title": "Democracy in Marxism", "text": "Democracy in Marxism\n\nIn Marxist theory a new democratic society will arise through the organised actions of an international working class, enfranchising the entire population, freeing up humans to act without being bound by the labour market. In such a utopian world there would also be little if any need for a state, the goal of which was to enforce the alienation. Karl Marx and Friedrich Engels stated in the Communist Manifesto and later works that \"the first step in the revolution by the working class, is to raise the proletariat to the position of ruling class, to win the battle for democracy\" and universal suffrage, being \"one of the first and most important tasks of the militant proletariat\". As Marx wrote in his \"Critique of the Gotha Program\", \"between capitalist and communist society there lies the period of the revolutionary transformation of the one into the other. Corresponding to this is also a political transition period in which the state can be nothing but the revolutionary dictatorship of the proletariat.\" He allowed for the possibility of peaceful transition in some countries with strong democratic institutional structures (such as Britain, the US and the Netherlands), he suggested that in other countries in which workers can not \"attain their goal by peaceful means\" the \"lever of our revolution must be force\", stating that the working people had the right to revolt if they were denied political expression. In Principles of Communism, in response to the question \"What will be the course of this revolution?\", Friedrich Engels wrote:\n\nWhile Marxists propose replacing the bourgeois state with a proletarian semi-state through revolution (Dictatorship of the proletariat), which would eventually wither away, anarchists warn that the state must be abolished along with capitalism. The desired end results, a stateless, communal society, are the same, however.\n\nIn the 19th century, \"The Communist Manifesto\" (1848), by Karl Marx and Friedrich Engels, called for the international political unification of the European working classes in order to achieve a Communist revolution; and proposed that, because the socio-economic organization of communism was of a higher form than that of capitalism, a workers' revolution would first occur in the economically advanced, industrialized countries. Marxist social democracy was strongest in Germany throughout the 19th century, and the Social Democratic Party of Germany inspired Lenin and other Russian Marxists.\n\nDuring the revolutionary ferment of the Russian Revolution of 1905 and 1917, there arose working-class grassroots attempts of direct democracy with Soviets (Russian for \"council\"). According to Lenin and other theorists of the Soviet Union, the soviets represent the democratic will of the working class and are thus the embodiment of the dictatorship of the proletariat. Lenin and the Bolsheviks saw the soviet as the basic organizing unit of society in a communist system and supported this form of democracy. Thus, the results of the long-awaited Constituent Assembly election in 1917, which Lenin's Bolshevik Party lost to the Socialist Revolutionary Party, were nullified when the Constituent Assembly was disbanded in January 1918.\n\nFunctionally, the Leninist vanguard party was to provide the working class with the political consciousness (education and organisation) and revolutionary leadership necessary to depose capitalism in Imperial Russia. After the October Revolution of 1917, Leninism was the dominant version of Marxism in Russia, and, in establishing soviet democracy, the Bolshevik régime suppressed socialists who opposed the revolution, such as the Mensheviks and factions of the Socialist Revolutionary Party. \n\nIn November 1917, Lenin issued the Decree on Workers' Control, which called on the workers of each enterprise to establish an elected committee to monitor their enterprise's management. That month they also issued an order requisitioning the country's gold, and nationalised the banks, which Lenin saw as a major step toward socialism. In December, Sovnarkom established a Supreme Council of the National Economy (VSNKh), which had authority over industry, banking, agriculture, and trade. The factory committees were subordinate to the trade unions, which were subordinate to VSNKh; thus, the state's centralised economic plan was prioritised over the workers' local economic interests. In early 1918, Sovnarkom cancelled all foreign debts and refused to pay interest owed on them. In April 1918, it nationalised foreign trade, establishing a state monopoly on imports and exports. In June 1918, it decreed nationalisation of public utilities, railways, engineering, textiles, metallurgy, and mining, although often these were state-owned in name only. Full-scale nationalisation did not take place until November 1920, when small-scale industrial enterprises were brought under state control.\n\nA faction of the Bolsheviks known as the \"Left Communists\" criticised Sovnarkom's economic policy as too moderate; they wanted nationalisation of all industry, agriculture, trade, finance, transport, and communication. Lenin believed that this was impractical at that stage, and that the government should only nationalise Russia's large-scale capitalist enterprises, such as the banks, railways, larger landed estates, and larger factories and mines, allowing smaller businesses to operate privately until they grew large enough to be successfully nationalised. Lenin also disagreed with the Left Communists about economic organisation; in June 1918, he argued that centralised economic control of industry was needed, whereas Left Communists wanted each factory to be controlled by its workers, a syndicalist approach that Lenin considered detrimental to the cause of socialism.\n\nAdopting a left libertarian perspective, both the Left Communists and other factions in the Communist Party critiqued the decline of democratic institutions in Russia. Internationally, many socialists decried Lenin's regime and denied that he was establishing socialism; in particular, they highlighted the lack of widespread political participation, popular consultation, and industrial democracy. In late 1918, the Czech-Austrian Marxist Karl Kautsky authored an anti-Leninist pamphlet condemning the anti-democratic nature of Soviet Russia, to which Lenin published a vociferous reply. German Marxist Rosa Luxemburg echoed Kautsky's views, while the Russian anarchist Peter Kropotkin described the Bolshevik seizure of power as \"the burial of the Russian Revolution\".\n\n"}
{"id": "3351102", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3351102", "title": "Dorothy Macardle", "text": "Dorothy Macardle\n\nDorothy Macardle (2 February 1889 in Dundalk – 23 December 1958 in Drogheda) was an Irish writer, novelist, playwright, and non-academic historian. Her book, \"The Irish Republic\", is one of the more frequently cited narrative accounts of the Irish War of Independence and its aftermath, particularly for its exposition of the anti-treaty viewpoint.\n\nDorothy Macardle (alternatively spelt McArdle) was born in Dundalk, Ireland in 1889 into a wealthy brewing family, famous for their \"Macardle's Ale\", and was raised Roman Catholic. She received her secondary education in Alexandra College, Dublina school under the management of the Church of Irelandand later attended University College, Dublin. Upon graduating, she returned to teach English at Alexandra.\n\nMacardle was a member of the Gaelic League and later joined Cumann na mBan in 1917. In 1918 (during the War of Independence), Macardle was arrested by the RIC while teaching at Alexandra; she was eventually dismissed in 1923, towards the latter end of the Irish Civil War, because of her anti-Treatyite sympathies and activities.\n\nWhen the republican movement split in 1921–22 over the Anglo-Irish Treaty, Macardle sided with Éamon de Valera and the anti-Treaty Irregulars. She was imprisoned by the fledgling Free State government in 1922, during the Civil War, and served time in both Mountjoy and Kilmainham Gaols.\n\nWhile working as a journalist with the League of Nations in the 1930s she acquired a considerable affinity with the plight of pre-war Czechoslovakia. Consequently, she differed with official Irish government policy on the threat of Nazism, Irish neutrality during World War II, compulsory Irish language teaching in schools, and deplored what she saw as the reduced status of women in the 1937 Constitution of Ireland.\n\nMacardle recounted her Civil War experiences in \"Earthbound: Nine Stories of Ireland\" (1924). MacArdle became a playwright in the next two decades. In her dramatic writing she used the pseudonym \"Margaret Callan\". During this time she worked as a journalist at the League of Nations.\n\nShe also researched her mammoth book \"The Irish Republic\" which was first published in 1937. Her political opponents and some modern historians consider her to be a hagiographer for de Valera's political views. Murray considers that: \"..de Valera’s ambitious scheme was eventually implemented by Dorothy Macardle, his devoted follower and lifelong apologist, whose book The Irish Republic conforms closely to the overall plan outlined by de Valera in prison, and even incorporates many of its details. The outline originally proposed by de Valera was extremely detailed, incorporating a carefully planned chronology and headings from which the\nchapters were to be developed.\"\n\nShe died in 1958 at the age of 69 of cancer in hospital in Drogheda. Though she was somewhat disillusioned with the new Irish State (in particular, regarding its treatment of women), she left the royalties from \"The Irish Republic\" to her close friend Éamon de Valera, who wrote the foreword to the book. De Valera visited her when she was dying.\n\n"}
{"id": "33515297", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33515297", "title": "Duqu", "text": "Duqu\n\nDuqu is a collection of computer malware discovered on 1 September 2011, thought to be related to the Stuxnet worm and to have been created by Unit 8200. The Laboratory of Cryptography and System Security (CrySyS Lab) of the Budapest University of Technology and Economics in Hungary discovered the threat, analysed the malware, and wrote a 60-page report naming the threat Duqu. Duqu got its name from the prefix \"~DQ\" it gives to the names of files it creates.\n\nThe term Duqu is used in a variety of ways:\n\n\nSymantec, based on the CrySyS report, continued the analysis of the threat, which it called \"nearly identical to Stuxnet, but with a completely different purpose\", and published a detailed technical paper on it with a cut-down version of the original lab report as an appendix. Symantec believes that Duqu was created by the same authors as Stuxnet, or that the authors had access to the source code of Stuxnet. The worm, like Stuxnet, has a valid, but abused digital signature, and collects information to prepare for future attacks. Mikko Hyppönen, Chief Research Officer for F-Secure, said that Duqu's kernel driver, JMINET7.SYS, was so similar to Stuxnet's MRXCLS.SYS that F-Secure's back-end system thought it was Stuxnet. Hyppönen further said that the key used to make Duqu's own digital signature (only observed in one case) was stolen from C-Media, located in Taipei, Taiwan. The certificates were due to expire on 2 August 2012 but were revoked on 14 October 2011 according to Symantec.\n\nAnother source, Dell SecureWorks, reports that Duqu may not be related to Stuxnet. However, there is considerable and growing evidence that Duqu is closely related to Stuxnet.\n\nExperts compared the similarities and found three points of interest:\n\nLike Stuxnet, Duqu attacks Microsoft Windows systems using a zero-day vulnerability. The first-known installer (AKA dropper) file recovered and disclosed by CrySyS Lab uses a Microsoft Word document that exploits the Win32k TrueType font parsing engine and allows execution. The Duqu dropper relates to font embedding, and thus relates to the workaround to restrict access to T2EMBED.DLL, which is a TrueType font parsing engine if the patch released by Microsoft in December 2011 is not yet installed.\nMicrosoft identifier for the threat is MS11-087 (first advisory issued on 13 November 2011).\n\nDuqu looks for information that could be useful in attacking industrial control systems. Its purpose is not to be destructive, the known components are trying to gather information. However, based on the modular structure of Duqu, special payload could be used to attack any type of computer system by any means and thus cyber-physical attacks based on Duqu might be possible. However, use on personal computer systems has been found to delete all recent information entered on the system, and in some cases total deletion of the computer's hard drive. \nInternal communications of Duqu are analysed by Symantec, but the actual and exact method how it replicates inside an attacked network is not yet fully known. According to McAfee, one of Duqu's actions is to steal digital certificates (and corresponding private keys, as used in public-key cryptography) from attacked computers to help future viruses appear as secure software. Duqu uses a 54×54 pixel JPEG file and encrypted dummy files as containers to smuggle data to its command and control center. Security experts are still analyzing the code to determine what information the communications contain. Initial research indicates that the original malware sample automatically removes itself after 36 days (the malware stores this setting in configuration files), which would limit its detection.\n\nKey points are:\n\n\nSome of the command and control servers of Duqu have been analysed. It seems that the people running the attack had a predilection for CentOS 5.x servers, leading some researchers to believe that they had a zero-day exploit for it . Servers are scattered in many different countries, including Germany, Belgium, Philippines, India and China. Kaspersky has published multiple blogposts on the command and control servers.\n\n"}
{"id": "52815396", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52815396", "title": "Elijah of Nisibis", "text": "Elijah of Nisibis\n\nElijah, Eliya, or Elias of Nisibis (11February 975– 18July 1046) was a Nestorian cleric who served as bishop of Beth Nuhadra (1002–1008) and archbishop of Nisibis (1008–1046). He has been called the most important Christian writer in Arabic—or even throughout non-Christian Asia—during the 11th century. He is best known for his \"Chronography\", which is an important source for the history of Sassanid Persia.\n\nHe shares the name of the Biblical prophet Elijah (, \"Eliyahu\"), whose name meant \"My God is Jah\". The Syriac form of his name was Elīyā or Elīyāh. In Latin translation, this became Elias.\n\nHe is usually distinguished as \"Elijah of Nisibis\" (; ) from the location of his archbishopric. He is also known by the patronymic (; ), meaning \"Elijah, son of Shenna\", in reference to the place of his birth.\n\nElijah was born in Shenna, just south of the Little Zab's confluence with the Tigris (near present-day Al-Zab, Iraq) on 11 February 975.\n\nOn Sunday, 15September 994, he was ordained as a priest at the monastery of Mar Shemʿon by Yohannes, archbishop of Fars and bishop of Shenna. He studied throughout northern Mesopotamia, including Mosul.\n\nOn Sunday, 15February 1002, he was consecrated bishop of Beth Nuhadra (present-day Dohuk, Iraq) by Yohannan, who had become the Nestorian patriarch in 1000 by appealing directly to the Abbasid governor at Shiraz without regard to the usual election procedures.\n\nOn Sunday, 26December 1008, he succeeded Yahballaha as archbishop of Nisibis (present-day Nusaybin, Turkey).\n\nFrom 15–29 July 1026, he paid a series of visits—the \"Seven Sessions\"—to the Abbasid vizier Abu'l-Qasim al-Husayn ibn Ali al-Maghribi to discuss Christian doctrines and other topics. Additional meetings between the two were held in December 1026 and June 1027. Three letters—two by Elijah and one by the vizier—are preserved from their correspondence the following year, showing their continuing good relations.\n\nHe died on 18 July 1046 at Mayyafariqin.\n\nElijah is best known for his \"Chronography\" or \"Chronology\" (; ), which forms an important source concerning the history of Sassanid Persia. It is divided into two sections, a chronicle modeled after Eusebius's \"Ecclesiastical History\" and a treatment of calendars and calendrical calculations. It is exceptional among Syriac chronicles for the large amount of civil history Elijah included among his ecclesiastical notices. The chronicle includes separate lists of the Sassanid dynasty (after the lost 7th-century work of James of Edessa) and the patriarchs of Seleucia (after the lost 5th-century work of Annianus of Alexandria). The popes and other patriarchs are included in the general annals which begin during the reign of the Roman emperor Tiberius and end with the year 1018. His treatment of calendrical systems has tables for computation of the Syriac and Persian new years and includes several Zoroastrian calendars, along with their feasts and holidays. As seen, many of Elijah's own sources, which he thoroughly documents, have now been lost and his own work is preserved in only a single manuscript, which fortunately includes few omissions. The manuscript is in Syriac, with most paragraphs in the first section followed by an Arabic translation. The \"Chronography\" was the last East Syrian text to be written in Syriac.\n\nThere have been two published editions of the work:\n\nElijah's \"Book of Sessions\" or \"Dialogues\" () claims to relate his conversations during his seven visits to the Abbasid vizier Abu'l-Qasim al-Husayn ibn Ali al-Maghribi. Dedicated to the \"honorable, believing, elder brother\" Abu al-ʿAla Saʿid ibn Sahl al-Katib, the work is intended as a literary apologetic as much as record of the events of the seven meetings, with its epilogue including the imprimatur of the patriarchal secretary Abu al-Faraj ʿAbd Allah ibn at-Tayyib. In order, the chapters cover:\n\n\nAccording to Elijah's account, the vizier asking for the meetings after he had experienced a miraculous cure at the hands of a Christian monk, causing him to reconsider his previous understanding of their faith as polytheistic and unfaithful to God. It is particularly remembered for its statement of Christian monotheism in trinity in its 5th dialogue.\n\nA full critical edition of the Book of Sessions along with the correspondence between Elijah and Abu'l-Qasim al-Maghribi was published by Nikolai N. Seleznyov.\n\nElijah also composed other theological and scholarly works.\n\nHe wrote defenses of Nestorianism against both Islam and other Christian denominations and treatises on Syrian canon law, asceticism, and ethics. His guide to \"rational management\" of anxiety () is also dedicated to the Abbasid vizier, whom he claims requested such a book during their sessions together. It advocates cultivating a general thankfulness; treatment of general anxiety through the religious virtues of piety, gratitude, chastity, humility, mercy, and repentance; and treatment of specific anxieties through the philosophical virtues of seeking advice, behaving well, and being generous, just, and forgiving. His \"Letter on the Unity of the Creator and Trinity of His Hypotases\" () states the arguments for trinitarianism for a curious Islamic judge. His \"Letter on the Merit of Chastity\" () attempts to refute Muʿtazilī al-Jāhiz's (. 869) arguments in favor of physical pleasure.\n\nHe also composed a Syriac grammar and a Syriac–Arabic dictionary, \"The Book of the Interpreter\" (; ). Because a standard Arabic script had not yet developed, the Arabic sections of the book were written using Garshuni, a transliteration of Arabic into the Syriac alphabet. The work was further translated into Latin by Thomas Obicini as his 1636 \"\".\n\nEditions of these works include:\n\nIn addition to Elijah's importance to Persian history and for his preservation of passages of otherwise lost ancient and medieval authors, he became famed throughout the Islamic world for his studious method and wide-ranging expertise in Christian and Islamic theology, language and literature, philosophy, medicine, and mathematics.\n\nIn addition to surviving manuscripts of Elijah's own works, the other primary source for his story is Mari ibn Sulaiman's \"Book of the Tower\", as expanded and emended by Amr ibn Matta and Saliba ibn Yuhanna.\n\n"}
{"id": "1846041", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1846041", "title": "Ettlingen", "text": "Ettlingen\n\nEttlingen is a town in Baden-Württemberg, Germany, about (.) south of the city of Karlsruhe. Ettlingen is the second largest town in the district of Karlsruhe, after Bruchsal.\n\nEttlingen is situated at the northern edge of the Black Forest on the Upper Rhine Plain. The Alb River arises in the hills of the Black Forest and flows through Ettlingen before emptying into the Rhine at Eggenstein-Leopoldshafen, making Ettlingen a central feature of the \"Albtal\", the Alb Valley. Central Ettlingen and its largest constituent communities (Bruchhausen, Ettlingenweier, Oberweier) lie on the plain itself, but some of the villages (Spessart, Schöllbronn, and Schluttenbach) are nestled among the northernmost foothills of the Black Forest.\n\nThe municipality of Ettlingen is bordered by the following communities, clockwise from the north: Karlsruhe, Waldbronn, Karlsbad (Baden), Marxzell, Malsch, and Rheinstetten, all of which belong to the district of Karlsruhe, except for the independent city of Karlsruhe itself.\n\nSince the major communal reforms enacted by Baden-Württemberg in the early 1970s, the municipality of Ettlingen has consisted of the town of Ettlingen itself and the communities of Bruchhausen, Ettlingenweier, Oberweier, Schluttenbach, Schöllbronn, and Spessart.\n\nEttlingen was an important crossroads during Roman times, when the region was part of the province of Germania Superior. This is demonstrated by the many artifacts found in the area, including the \"Neptune Stone,\" which commemorates a flood of the Rhine, and the remains of a Roman bath excavated beneath St. Martin's Church. The town was first mentioned in 788 as \"Ediningom\" in a deed of donation belonging to Weissenburg Abbey in Alsace (now in France). In 965, the village of Ettlingen (\"Ediningom\") received market rights (\"Marktrecht\") from Emperor Otto the Great. In 1192, Emperor Henry VI, one of Frederick Barbarossa's sons. Margrave Herman V of Baden-Baden became Ettlingen's feudal lord in 1219. In the following centuries, Ettlingen developed into an important administrative centre within the Margraviate of Baden-Baden.\n\nEttlingen gave its name to a line of defensive earthworks known as the Ettlingen Line built to deter French aggression.\nDuring the Nine Years' War the town was nearly completely burned to the ground by the troops of Louis XIV, but was nevertheless rebuilt in the following decades under Margravine Sibylle Auguste. After the Catholic line of Baden-Baden died out in 1771, Ettlingen passed to the Protestant Margraviate of Baden-Durlach, which would become the reunited Margraviate of Baden. During the French Revolutionary Wars, Ettlingen was the site of a battle between elements of the French Army of the Rhine and Moselle and the Habsburg Army of the Upper Rhine on 9 July 1796. In the period of Napoleon's activities in Germany, Margrave Karl Friedrich of Baden was made Elector in 1806 and Grand Duke in 1806.\n\nEttlingen remained an independent town until 1937, when it was incorporated into the administrative unit that would become the district of Karlsruhe in 1939. Ettlingen and its surrounding villages and land continue to be part of this district.\n\nIn 1966, Ettlingen passed the 20,000 population mark and raised to the status of \"Große Kreisstadt\" by the state government of Baden-Württemberg. During the communal reforms of the early 1970s, several smaller communities were incorporated into Ettlingen, raising the population to over 30,000. Ettlingen's renowned open-air theater series, the \"Schlossfestspiele\" first took the stage in the Baroque inner courtyard of Ettlingen Palace in 1979.\n\nEttlingen was originally a part of the ancient Diocese of Speyer and was under the pastoral care of the Archdeacon of St. German and Moritz in Speyer. The town originally belonged to the deanery of Durlach but was itself made archdiaconate in the 16th century. The Protestant Reformation made gains in Ettlingen as early as 1520, but the town remained mostly Catholic, and the town's Catholic majority was supported by the Catholic line of Baden-Baden; later, starting in 1624, the Jesuits played an active role in converting many of the town's inhabitants back to the Catholic faith. By the beginning of the 19th century, Protestants were a small minority. \nDuring the period of secularization following the dissolution of the Holy Roman Empire, Ettlingen was part of the ordinariate of Bruchsal. In 1821, it became part of the newly founded Archdiocese of Freiburg, and the town was made the seat of a deanery, which included not only the parishes within Ettlingen proper, but also those in surrounding villages and neighboring municipalities. Today, Ettlingen belongs to the deanery of Karlsruhe, with the various parishes organized into pastoral units (\"Seelsorgeeinheiten\"). These include Ettlingen Stadt, with the parishes Herz Jesu (Sacred Heart), Liebfrauen (Our Lady), and St. Martin's, the town's oldest church; Ettlingen South, with St. Dionysius' in Ettlingenweier, St. Wendelin's in Oberweier, and St. Joseph's in Bruchhausen; and Ettlingen Heights, with St. George's in Völkersbach, St. Boniface's in Schöllbronn, and St. Anthony's in Spessart, although Völkersbach belongs politically to the municipality of Malsch.\n\nJewish families lived in Ettlingen since at least the 17th century. They lived primarily in Färbergasse ('Dyers' Alley), which was formerly known as \"Judengasse\" (Jews' Alley). Ettlingen's first synagogue was built on Albstraße in 1849, only to be torn down again when a new synagogue was built on Pforzheimerstraße and dedicated in 1889. The \"New Synagogue\" was itself destroyed during the infamous \"Kristallnacht\" pogrom of November 1938. Most of the remaining Jewish citizens of Ettlingen were deported soon thereafter as part of the Nazi \"Final Solution.\"\n\nProtestants (Lutherans), most of whom had moved to Ettlingen since the early 19th century, were first administered from Rüppurr, but in 1848 they received their own clergyman, and in 1869 their own parish (\"Johannesgemeinde\" - Congregation of St. John), which soon got its own church, the oldest Protestant church in Ettlingen. The \"Johannesgemeinde\" belonged to the city deanery of Karlsruhe at first, but was later transferred over to the deanery of Alb-Pfinz with its seat in Pfinztal. The congregation continued to grow and was eventually divided in 1951, creating the \"Paulusgemeinde\" (Congregation of St. Paul). The \"Paulusgemeinde\" had a parish hall built in 1953, adding a bell tower in 1965. The \"Paulusgemeinde\" was split up in 1972 to create the \"Luthergemeinde\" (Luther Congregation), which caters to the Protestants of Ettlingen West, Bruchhausen, Ettlingenweier, and Oberweier. From 1969 to 2003, Ettlingen was the seat of the Evangelical (Lutheran) Church in Baden's district of Central Baden. However, in the wake of efforts to save money, this district was dissolved and Ettlingen incorporated into the district of North Baden.\n\nAlongside the two major churches, there are also a few free churches and congregations, including a Free Evangelical congregation and the Liebenzell Congregation. The Jehovah's Witnesses, the New Apostolic Church, and a small Jewish community are also represented in Ettlingen.\n\nEttlingen is a twin town of:\n\n\nEttlingen is the location of Rheinland Kaserne. Formerly a German Army base, for many years after World War II Rheinland Kaserne was the home of several U.S. Army units and many Americans. In the mid-nineties, the U.S. Army handed the barracks back to Germany. It is now home to a private school, medical offices, a vehicle registration centre, new housing and the \"Kulisse\" movie theatre.\n\nAmong the U.S. Army units based in Rheinland Kaserne were the 78th Engineer Battalion and 44th Signal Battalion.\n\nTrains on lines S1 and S11 of the Stadtbahn Karlsruhe stop at the Erbprinz Hotel, Wasen and at the Ettlingen Stadt station. These lines operated over the Alb Valley Railway, an electric railway that links Karlsruhe to Bad Herrenalb (S1) and Ittersbach (S11).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1183083", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1183083", "title": "Gen'ō", "text": "Gen'ō\n\n\nAfter the abdication of Emperor Hanazono in \"Bunpō\" 2, Takaharu-shinno was proclaimed emperor at the age of 31. Nijō Michihira was \"kampaku\" (chancellor); but the court remained under the direction of former-Emperor Go-Uda. Prince Morikuni was the shōgun in Kamakura; and the \"daimyō\" of Sagami, Hōjō Takatoki, was \"shikken\" or chief minister of the shogunate.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40198682", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40198682", "title": "Genocide of indigenous peoples in Brazil", "text": "Genocide of indigenous peoples in Brazil\n\nThe process that has been described as the genocide of indigenous peoples in Brazil began with the Portuguese colonization of the Americas, when Pedro Álvares Cabral made landfall in what is now the country of Brazil in 1500. This started the process that led to the depopulation of the indigenous peoples in Brazil, because of disease and violent treatment by European settlers, and their gradual replacement with colonists from Europe and Africa. This process has been described as a genocide, and continues into the modern era with the ongoing destruction of indigenous peoples of the Amazonian region.\n\nOver eighty indigenous tribes were destroyed between 1900 and 1957, and the overall indigenous population declined by over eighty percent, from over one million to around two hundred thousand. The 1988 Brazilian Constitution recognises indigenous peoples' right to pursue their traditional ways of life and to the permanent and exclusive possession of their \"traditional lands\", which are demarcated as Indigenous Territories. In practice, however, Brazil's indigenous people still face a number of external threats and challenges to their continued existence and cultural heritage. The process of demarcation is slow—often involving protracted legal battles—and FUNAI do not have sufficient resources to enforce the legal protection on indigenous land.\n\nSince the 1980s there has been a boom in the exploitation of the Amazon Rainforest for mining, logging and cattle ranching, posing a severe threat to the region's indigenous population. Settlers illegally encroaching on indigenous land continue to destroy the environment necessary for indigenous peoples' traditional ways of life, provoke violent confrontations and spread disease. Peoples such as the Akuntsu and Kanoê have been brought to the brink of extinction within the last three decades. On 13 November 2012, the national indigenous peoples association from Brazil APIB submitted to the United Nation a human rights document with complaints about new proposed laws in Brazil that would further undermine their rights if approved.\n\nSeveral non-governmental organizations (NGOs) have been formed due to the ongoing persecution of the indigenous peoples in Brazil, and international pressure has been brought to bear on the state after the release of the Figueiredo Report which documented massive human rights violations.\n\nThe abuses have been described as genocide, ethnocide and cultural genocide.\n\nIn the 1940s the state and the Indian Protection Service (IPS) forcibly relocated the Aikanã, Kanôc, Kwazá and Salamái tribes to work on rubber plantations. During the journey many of the indigenous peoples starved to death, those who survived the journey were placed in an IPS settlement called Posto Ricardo Franco. These actions resulted in the near extinction of the Kanôc tribe.\n\nThe ethnocide of the Yanomami has been well documented, there are an estimated nine thousand currently living in Brazil in the Upper Orinoco drainage and a further fifteen thousand in Venezuela. The NGO Survival International has reported that throughout the 1980s up to forty thousand gold prospectors entered Yanomami territory bringing diseases the Yanomami had no immunity to, the prospectors shot and destroyed entire villages, and Survival International estimates that up to twenty per cent of the people were dead within seven years.\n\nThe Uru-Eu-Wau-Wau, whose territory has been protected by law since 1991, saw an influx of an estimated 800 people in 2007. The tribal leaders met with the civil authorities and demanded the trespassers be evicted. This tribe, initially contacted in 1981, saw a severe decline in population after disease was introduced by settlers and miners. Their numbers are now estimated at a few hundred.\n\nDuring the Portuguese colonization of the Americas, Cabral made landfall off the atlantic coast. Over the following decade the indigenous Tupí, Tapuya and other tribes which lived along the coast suffered large depopulation due to disease and violence. A process of miscegenation between Portuguese settlers and indigenous women also occurred. It is estimated that of the 2.5 million indigenous peoples who had lived in the region which now comprises Brazil, less than 10 per cent survived to the 1600s. The primarily reason for depopulation was diseases such as smallpox that advanced far beyond movement of European settlers.\n\nIn 1952 Brazil ratified the genocide convention and incorporated into their penal laws article II of the convention. While the statute was being drafted, Brazil argued against the inclusion of cultural genocide, claiming that some minority groups may use it to oppose the normal assimilation which occurs in a new country. According to professor of law at Vanderbilt University Larry May, the argument put forward by Brazil was significant, but cultural genocide should not be cast aside, and this type of genocide should be included within the definition of genocide.\n\nIn 1967 public prosecutor Jader de Figueiredo Correia, submitted the Figueiredo Report to the dictatorship which was then ruling the country. The report, which ran seven thousand pages, remained hidden for over forty years. Its release caused an international furore. The rediscovered documents are being examined by the National Truth Commission which has been tasked with the investigations of human rights violations which occurred in the periods 1947 through to 1988. The report reveals that the IPS had enslaved indigenous people, tortured children and stolen land. The Truth Commission is of the opinion that entire tribes in Maranhão were completely eradicated and in Mato Grosso, an attack on thirty Cinturão Largo left only two survivors. The report also states that landowners and members of the IPS had entered isolated villages and deliberately introduced smallpox. Of the one hundred and thirty four people accused in the report the state has as yet not tried a single one. The report also detailed instances of mass killings, rapes, and torture. Figueiredo stated that the actions of the IPS had left the indigenous peoples near extinction. The state abolished the IPS following the release of the report. The Red Cross launched an investigation after further allegations of ethnic cleansing were made after the IPS had been replaced.\n\nIn 1992 a group who had been prospecting for gold were tried for the attempted genocide of the Yanomami tribe. A report from an anthropologist, which was submitted as evidence during the trial, stated that the prospectors' entry into Yanomami territory had an adverse effect on their lives, as the prospectors carried diseases. They had also contaminated the rivers which the Yanomami used as a source of food. The UN reported that thousands of the Yanomami have been killed as the Brazilian government failed to enforce the law, and that even after though the Yanomami peoples territory had been demarcated the state had not provided the necessary resources to stop the illegal incursion of gold prospectors. These prospectors have caused massive forest fires which have led to the destruction of extensive areas of both croplands and rainforest.\n\nAt the 1992 Earth Summit in Brazil the Kari-Oka Declaration and the Indigenous Peoples Earth Charter were presented by the representatives of indigenous peoples from around the world. The Kari-Oka Declaration states \"We continue to maintain our rights as peoples despite centuries of deprivation, assimilation and genocide\". The declaration also asserted that the genocide convention must be amended so as to include the genocide of indigenous peoples. The International Work Group for Indigenous Affairs (IWGIA) was founded in 1968 in response to the genocide of indigenous peoples in Brazil and Paraguay, and in 1969 Survival International was founded in London as a response to the atrocities, theft of land and genocide occurring in the Brazilian Amazon. In 1972 anthropologists from Harvard university founded Cultural survival.\n\nThe World Bank has been subject to criticism over loans which have been used to help fund the dislocation of indigenous peoples and environmental destruction. The Polonoreste project caused wholesale deforestation, ecological damage on a wide scale, as well as the forced relocation of indigenous communities. The project led to an international campaign which resulted in the World Bank suspending loans.\n"}
{"id": "28451584", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28451584", "title": "Heinrich Döring", "text": "Heinrich Döring\n\nHeinrich Doring, born Michael Johann Heinrich Döring (8 May 1789, Danzig/Gdańsk – 14 December 1862, Jena) was a German writer, theologian and mineralogist.\n\nHe became known mainly as a biographer of the German classical writers, and especially the first biographer of Goethe.\n\nIn 1814, after an interrupted business apprenticeship, Döring enrolled in the University of Jena. He studied theology and philosophy, and soon became active as a writer, falling under the influence of Goethe.\n\nHe became a member of the 'Society for General Mineralogy' (\"Gesellschaft für die gesamte Mineralogie\") in Jena.\n\nIn 1817, he worked as an editor for the \"Oppositionsblatt\" newspaper in Weimar. After that, he worked primarily as a translator from English of such authors as James Fenimore Cooper, William Shakespeare, Walter Scott, and Laurence Sterne. He was also a literary historian, and biographer of various German writers.\n\nHis biographies were mainly based on the first-hand accounts by the persons he was writing about, as well as on other mostly reliable evidence.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "296732", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=296732", "title": "Herbert Giles", "text": "Herbert Giles\n\nHerbert Allen Giles (8 December 184513 February 1935) was a British diplomat and sinologist who was the professor of Chinese at Cambridge University for 35 years. Giles was educated at Charterhouse School before becoming a British diplomat in China. He modified a Mandarin Chinese romanisation system established by Thomas Wade, resulting in the widely known Wade–Giles Chinese romanisation system. Among his many works were translations of the \"Analects of Confucius\", the \"Lao Tzu (Tao Te Ching)\", the \"Chuang Tzu\", and, in 1892, the widely published \"A Chinese-English Dictionary\".\n\nHerbert A. Giles was the fourth son of John Allen Giles (1808–1884), an Anglican clergyman. After studying at Charterhouse, Herbert became a British diplomat to Qing China, serving from 1867 to 1892. He also spent several years (1885–1888) at Fort Santo Domingo in Tamsui, northern Taiwan. He was the father of Bertram, Valentine, Lancelot, Edith, Mable, and Lionel Giles. In 1897 Herbert Giles became only the second professor of Chinese language appointed at the University of Cambridge, succeeding Thomas Wade. At the time of his appointment, there were no other sinologists at Cambridge. Giles was therefore free to spend most of his time among the ancient Chinese texts earlier donated by Wade, publishing what he chose to translate from his eclectic reading in Chinese literature.\n\nHis later works include a history of the Chinese Pictorial Art in 1905 and his 1914 Hibbert Lectures on Confucianism which was published in 1915 by Williams and Norgate (). He dedicated the third edition of \"Strange Stories from a Chinese Studio\" (1916) to his seven grandchildren, but at the end of his life was on speaking terms with only one of his surviving children. An ardent agnostic, he was also an enthusiastic freemason. He never became a Fellow at one of the constituent colleges of the University of Cambridge, despite being a university professor for 35 years. He finally retired in 1932, and died at 89\n\nGiles received the Prix Julien award from the French Academy in 1897 for his \"Chinese Biographical Dictionary\". Generally considered unreliable among modern academics, Endymion Wilkinson described it as:\n\nHe also ran afoul of the Chinese scholar Gu Hongming, who declared Nor did Gu appreciate Giles' great \"Chinese-English Dictionary\" describing it as \n\nIn 1917, he funded an award, the Prix Giles, in the amount of eight hundred francs. Administered by the Académie des Inscriptions et Belles-Lettres, it is given every two years to a French person who has written a work about China, Japan, or East Asia, in general .\n\n\nList of awards and honours:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2192982", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2192982", "title": "Hisham ibn al-Kalbi", "text": "Hisham ibn al-Kalbi\n\nHisham ibn al-Kalbi (737 AD - 819 AD/204 AH), also known as Ibn al-Kalbi () was an Arab historian. His full name Abu al-Mundhir Hisham bin Muhammed bin al-Sa'ib bin Bishr al-Kalbi. Born in Kufa, he spent much of his life in Baghdad. Like his father, he collected information about the genealogies and history of the ancient Arabs. According to the Fihrist, he wrote 140 works. His account of the genealogies of the Arabs is continually quoted in the Kitab al-Aghani.\n\nHisham established a genealogical link between Ishmael and Mohammed and put forth the idea that all Arabs were descended from Ishmael. He relied heavily on the ancient oral traditions of the Arabs, but also quoted writers who had access to Biblical and Palmyran sources. In 1966, W. Caskel compiled a two volume study of Ibn al-Kalbi's \"Djamharat al Nasab\" (\"The Abundance of Kinship\") entitled \"Das genealogische Werk des Hisam Ibn Muhammad al Kalbi\". It contains a prosopographic register of every individual mentioned in the genealogy in addition to more than three hundred genealogical tables based on the contents of the text.\n\n"}
{"id": "24750414", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24750414", "title": "Institute for Information on the Crimes of Communism", "text": "Institute for Information on the Crimes of Communism\n\nThe Institute for Information on the Crimes of Communism (IICC) (, \"UOK\") is a Sweden-based non-profit and non-governmental human rights organization, founded in 2008, with the stated purpose of \"spreading essential information on the crimes of communism and to promote vigilance against all totalitarian ideologies and antidemocratic movements\". The institute is a member organisation of the Platform of European Memory and Conscience, an educational project of the European Union bringing together government institutions and NGOs active in research, documentation, awareness raising and education about the crimes of totalitarian regimes.\n\nThe IICC publishes information materials and media, surveys, reports, and teaching materials, participates in the public debate, and organizes film screenings, seminars, hearings, media events and exhibitions related to the subject. The IICC cooperates with national institutions, embassies, institutes, NGO:s and organizations in Europe, the United States and Canada.\n\nThe board of directors consists of Camilla Andersson (chair), Anders Hjemdahl, Professor Kristian Gerner, Walburga Habsburg Douglas MP, and Mae Liz Orrego Wennick. The institute is largely funded by the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise. The institute received the Templeton Freedom Award in 2009.\n\nNotable honorable members of the IICC and contributors in its publications and activities are current Minister for Foreign Affairs and former Prime Minister of Sweden Carl Bildt, former Prime Minister of Estonia Mart Laar, former Ambassador and EU Commissioner of Latvia Sandra Kalniete, Member of the European Parliament Gunnar Hökmark, professor Robert Conquest, professor of history Kristian Gerner, professor of East European studies Stefan Hedlund, professor of history Klas-Göran Karlsson, author and journalist Staffan Skott, author and journalist , and many others.\n\nIn cooperation with the government of Sweden, the organisation has carried out remembrance ceremonies on the European Day of Remembrance for Victims of Stalinism and Nazism. Prime Minister Fredrik Reinfeldt, Minister of Education Jan Björklund and EU Ministers Cecilia Malmström and Birgitta Ohlsson have taken part in events hosted by the institute.\n\nThe IICC has been involved in raising awareness about the Prague Declaration on European Conscience and Communism in Sweden and internationally.\n\n"}
{"id": "50672336", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50672336", "title": "Jane Fawcett", "text": "Jane Fawcett\n\nJane Fawcett MBE (née Hughes; 4 March 1921 – 21 May 2016) was a British codebreaker, singer, and heritage preservationist. She recently became known for her role in decoding a message, which led to the sinking of the German battleship \"Bismarck\". From 1963 to 1976 she served as the secretary of the Victorian Society. She wrote and edited works including \"The Future of the Past; Seven Victorian Architects; The Village in History\" and \"Save the City\".\n\nJanet Carolin (or Caroline) Hughes was born on 4 March 1921. She was raised in London, attended Miss Ironside's School for Girls in Kensington, trained as a ballet dancer, and was admitted to the Royal Ballet School. As a young woman of 17, she was told she was \"too tall\" to be a professional dancer, and her promising ballet career ended. She was then sent to Zürich to learn German, shortly thereafter moving to the St. Moritz ski resort.\n\nAfter six months, she was told by her parents to return home to \"come out\" as a debutante. She found that lifestyle boring, \"a complete waste of time\" and was relieved when invited by a friend to apply to the Bletchley Park project.\n\nIn 1940, at the age of 18, she was interviewed by senior codebreaker Stuart Milner-Barry, and joined the secret codebreaking project at Bletchley Park. She joined a group of women known as the \"Debs of Bletchley Park\", so called because they were women recruited from upper classes, debutantes, to work in secret as part of the Enigma project. Hughes was assigned to Hut 6, a \"Decoding Room\" of women only. The conditions were poor—dimly lit, poorly heated, and poorly ventilated—and the women worked long hours under extreme pressure. In Hut 6, Jane and other women like her would receive the daily Enigma keys and type them into their own Typex machines. They would then determine if the messages were recognizable German.\n\nOn 25 May 1941, Hughes and several other women were briefed on the search for the German battleship \"Bismarck\". Shortly thereafter, she decoded a message referring to the \"Bismarck\" that detailed its current position and destination in France. The \"Bismarck\" was subsequently attacked by the Royal Navy and sunk on 27 May. This was the first significant victory by the codebreakers, demonstrating the utility of the project.\n\nHer work did not come to light until decades later, during the 1990s, as it had been classified under Britain's Official Secrets Act. Compared with the publicly acknowledged heroics of the navy, Fawcett said \"we felt slightly ashamed of having only done Bletchley, like also-rans. So when everything we had done, which we knew had been very hard work and incredibly demanding, suddenly showed its head and we were being asked to talk about it, it felt quite overwhelming. I'd never told a soul, not even my husband. My grandchildren were very surprised.\"\n\nFawcett was one of the human sources Michael Smith interviewed for his book, \"The Debs of Bletchley Park and Other Stories\" (2015).\n\nHughes' service at Bletchley ended in May 1945. After the war ended, she married Edward Fawcett, took his surname, and trained at the Royal Academy of Music. From the end of the war to the early 1960s, she had a 15-year career as an opera singer. She performed Scylla in Jean-Marie Leclair's \"Scylla et Glaucus\" and the Sorceress in Henry Purcell's \"Dido and Aeneas\". She also performed as a solo recital singer.\n\nIn 1963 Fawcett took an executive position with the Victorian Society, founded in 1957 as a heritage preservation organisation dedicated to preserving Victorian architecture and works. As its secretary, she was effectively the chief executive, working closely with the director, Sir Nikolaus Pevsner, to save many buildings from demolition.\n\nShe was dubbed \"the furious Mrs Fawcett\" for her role in fighting with British Rail to preserve historic railway stations, and was instrumental in the 1967 preservation of London's St Pancras station and the gothic Midland Grand Hotel (now known as the St Pancras Renaissance London Hotel). She also worked to save much of London's Whitehall from destruction.\n\nHer husband joined her in historic preservation work in 1965, joining first the Garden History Society, and then, in 1969, the National Trust in full-time work.\n\nIn 1976 Jane Fawcett was appointed MBE and stepped down from active leadership.\n\nIn later years she taught preservation at the Architectural Association School of Architecture.\n\nHughes met Royal Navy officer Edward \"Ted\" Fawcett (22 September 1920 – 19 October 2013) during World War II and married him shortly thereafter. The couple had two children, Carolin, an opera singer, and James, an experimental neurologist.\n\nFawcett died at home in Oxford on 21 May 2016 at the age of 95.\n\n"}
{"id": "2814612", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2814612", "title": "Jean-Baptiste-Antoine Ferland", "text": "Jean-Baptiste-Antoine Ferland\n\nJean-Baptiste-Antoine Ferland (25 December 1805 in Montreal – 11 January 1865 in Quebec City) was a French Canadian historian.\n\nHe studied at the college of Nicolet and was ordained 1828. He ministered to country parishes until 1841, when he was made director of studies in the college of Nicolet. He became its superior in 1848. Being named a member of the council of the Bishop of Quebec, he took up his residence in that city, where he was also chaplain to the English garrison. From his college days he had devoted himself to the study of Canadian history; the numerous notes which he collected had made him one of the most learned men of the country. It was not, however, until he had reached the age of forty that he thought of writing a history of Canada. In 1853 he published his \"Observations sur l' histoire ecclésiastique du Canada\", a refutation and criticism of the work of the Abbé Brasseur de Bourburg; it was reprinted in France in 1854. In the latter year he published \"Notes sur les régistres de Notre Dame de Québec\", a second edition of which, revised and augmented appeared in the \"Foyer Canadien\" for 1863. In 1855 he was appointed professor of Canadian history at the Université Laval (Sainte-Foy, Quebec), and went at once to France to collect new documents to perfect him in his work. He returned in 1857, bringing with him valuable notes. The public courses which he delivered from 1858 to 1862 attracted large audiences.\n\nHis lectures, printed as \"Cours d' Histoire du Canada\", established Ferland's reputation. The first volume appeared in 1861; the second was not published until after the author's death in 1865. This work, written in a style at once simple and exact, is considered authoritative by competent judges. It is, however, incomplete, ending as it does with the conquest of Canada by the English (1759). Ferland aimed above all at establishing the facts of history. He desired also to make known the work of the Catholic missions. His judgments are correct and reliable.\n\nFerland also published in the \"Soirées Canadiennes\" of 1863 the \"Journal d'un voyage sur les côtes de la Gaspésie\", and in \"Littérature Canadienne\" for 1863 an \"Etude sur le Labrador\", which had previously appeared in the \"Annales de l'Association pour la Propagation de la Foi\". For the \"Foyer Canadien\" of 1863 he wrote a \"Vie de Mgr Plessis\", Bishop of Quebec, translated later into English.\n\n"}
{"id": "36533", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36533", "title": "Jubilee", "text": "Jubilee\n\nA jubilee is a particular anniversary of an event, usually denoting the 25th, 40th, 50th, 60th, or 70th anniversary. Of biblical origins, the term is often now used to denote the celebrations associated with the reign of a monarch after a milestone number of years have passed.\n\nThe Jubilee ( \"yūḇāl\") year (every 50th year) selvakumar (every seventh year) are Biblical commandments concerning ownership of land and slaves. The laws concerning the Sabbatical year are still observed by many religious Jews in the State of Israel, while the Jubilee has not been observed for many centuries. According to the Hebrew Bible, every seventh year farmers in the land of Israel are commanded to let their land lie fallow. The celebration of the Jubilee is the fiftieth year, that is, the year after seven Sabbatical cycles. In Roman Catholic tradition, a Jubilee is a year of remission of sins and also the punishment due to sin.\n\nCelebrations in the reign of a monarch:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42137241", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42137241", "title": "Karl Gunnar Persson", "text": "Karl Gunnar Persson\n\nKarl Gunnar Persson (19 March 1943 – 14 September 2016) was a Swedish economic historian whose contribution lies mainly in comparative European economic history.\n\nKarl Gunnar Persson was born in Borås, Sweden, then a textile industry centre, and was educated as an economic historian at Lund University. In the 1960s and 1970s he mostly worked as a freelance journalist for the Swedish Radio, journals and newspapers. Persson’s early academic work was in sociometrics investigating social mobility. He returned to economic history in the early 1980s.\n\nHe spent most of his career at the Department of Economics, University of Copenhagen, Denmark. He began as a Senior Lecturer in 1975 and later became Reader and finally Professor. He was appointed Professor Emeritus in 2013. He has been a visiting scholar at various universities such as London School of Economics, European University Institute and Australian National University.\n\nKarl Gunnar Persson has had various administrative duties at his Department over the years, including that of Deputy Head of Department. He has been the founding president of the European Historical Economics Society and one of the founding editors of the European Review of Economic History. He is a fellow of the Royal Danish Academy. He died in Siena, Italy on 14 September 2016.\n\nIn the monograph \"Pre-Industrial Economic Growth\" he showed that the traditional Malthusian model did not have a single equilibrium characterized by subsistence income, but in fact a number of equilibria. If slow but persistent technological progress was admitted in a Malthus-Ricardo model, the equilibrium was characterized by positive population growth and income above subsistence. The level of per capita income and the rate of population growth was determined by the rate of technological progress given the rate of diminishing returns to labour.\n\nThe problem with estimating growth and income levels in pre-industrial societies is the lack of precise national income data. His approach is based on indirect estimates and relies on the possibility of inferring growth in per capita income by using data on changes in the occupational pattern and by implication the consumption pattern. The method uses Engel’s law, the idea that households spend an increasing share of an income increase on non-food items and consequently less of the income increase on food. That will affect production and occupational distribution away from food production. An increase in the share of non-food producers in an economy reveals a per capita income increase. Using the method with relevant controls indicate pre-industrial income growth since Medieval times of around 0.15–0.25 per cent per year.\n\nIn the 1990s Persson was mainly working with the analysis of market integration arguing that markets which had stochastic output shocks, like grain production, experienced a stabilization of prices when previously segmented markets were integrated. The reason was that trade dampened the local shocks since over a large area shocks were independent geographically: grain could flow from surplus to deficient areas. This strand of research was summarized in his monograph \"Grain markets in Europe 1500–1900\".\n\nIn subsequent work in this field Persson has investigated the operation of the law of one price, the idea that price differentials for a homogenous good traded between two locations must equal the transport costs between the two markets. He found that the quality and speed of information transmission determined the deviations from the ‘law of one price’ and that the introduction of the telegraph and the commercial press greatly reduced the deviations and increased the speed by which the ‘law of one price’ was restored after a shock in one market. He has also measured the costs, in terms of dead weight loss, of poor market integration and the subsequent welfare gains of improvements in market performance.\n\nPersson has been teaching economic history for economics students during four decades and these lectures were reworked to a general textbook published as \"An Economic History of Europe\". This treatise differs from traditional textbooks in economic history by not taking up a chronological narrative. Instead it is theme and problem-oriented with separate chapters on the international monetary order, inequality, institutions and growth, knowledge transmission and convergence, globalization and so forth.\n\nPersson has been working with historical demography since his becoming an Emeritus professor. In particular he is investigating the mechanisms of within-marriage fertility control before the advent of modern means of contraception. Persson is challenging the conventional view in historical demography which tend to neglect within-marriage fertility control before the modern era. He is also involved in a project refining the method of productivity estimates by using occupational data.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36820938", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36820938", "title": "List of archaeological excavations by date", "text": "List of archaeological excavations by date\n\nThis is a list of significant archaeological expeditions by date, which include first excavations at important sites, or expeditions that uncovered important objects.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7679970", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7679970", "title": "Luo Jialun", "text": "Luo Jialun\n\nLuo Jialun (; December 21, 1897 - December 25, 1969) Chinese Minister of Education, historian, diplomat and political activist. A noted Scholar, he was one of the leaders of the May Fourth Movement in 1919. Subsequently being distinguished as President of various prestigious Chinese universities in the inter-war period. In the autumn of 1946 he was appointed by the Nationalist Government as China's first Ambassador to India, a full year before India gained sovereignty from the United Kingdom/British Empire. His tenure as Ambassador saw the escalation of the Chinese Civil War and subsequent retreat to Taiwan, of the Nationalist Forces under Chiang Kai-Shek, from whom the Indian Government withdrew diplomatic recognition, according it instead to the victorious Communists under Mao Tse-tung. Luo remained in India till 1952 when he rejoined his family on Taiwan, where\nthey had retreated with the Nationalists. He continued to live there in his retirement.\n\nOn 29 May 2018, the asteroid 204711 Luojialun was named in his honor.\n\nMr. Luo Jialun was born on the 21st of December 1897 in Kiangsi to a moderately prosperous family. An industrious and precocious student he graduated from Peking University in the arts, and subsequently undertook intensive research work in history and philosophy at Princeton, Columbia, London, Berlin and Paris Universities. Returning to China he assumed a prominent role in the \"\"Literary Revolution of 1918\" and subsequent \"May Fourth Movement in 1919\" where as through his editorship of the respected journal \"The Renaissance\". Joining the University of Peking he rose to become professor of history in 1926. In 1928 he was appointed President of Tsinghua University serving until 1930.\n"}
{"id": "472667", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=472667", "title": "Marriage license", "text": "Marriage license\n\nA marriage license is a document issued, either by a church or state authority, authorizing a couple to marry. The procedure for obtaining a license varies between countries and has changed over time. Marriage licenses began to be issued in the Middle Ages, to permit a marriage which would otherwise be illegal (for instance, if the necessary period of notice for the marriage had not been given).\n\nToday, they are a legal requirement in some jurisdictions and may also serve as the record of the marriage itself, if signed by the couple and witnessed.\n\nIn other jurisdictions, a license is not required. In some jurisdictions, a \"pardon\" can be obtained for marrying without a license, and in some jurisdictions, common-law marriages and marriage by cohabitation and representation are also recognized. These do not require a marriage license. There are also some jurisdictions where marriage licenses do not exist at all and a marriage certificate is given to the couple after the marriage ceremony had taken place.\n\nArticle 16 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights declares that \"Men and women of full age, without any limitation due to race, nationality or religion, have the right to marry and to found a family. They are entitled to equal rights as to marriage, during marriage and at its dissolution. Marriage shall be entered into only with the free and full consent of the intending spouses.\"\n\nFor most of Western history, marriage was a private contract between two families. Until the 16th century, Christian churches accepted the validity of a marriage on the basis of a couple’s declarations. If two people claimed that they had exchanged marital vows—even without witnesses—the Catholic Church accepted that they were validly married.\n\nSome states in the US hold that public cohabitation can be sufficient evidence of a valid marriage. Marriage license application records from government authorities are widely available starting from the mid-19th century. Some are available dating from the 17th century in colonial America. Marriage licenses have been required since 1639 in Massachusetts, with their use gradually expanding to other jurisdictions.\n\nA requirement for banns of marriage was introduced to England and Wales by the Church in 1215. This required a public announcement of a forthcoming marriage, in the couple's parish church, for three Sundays prior to the wedding and gave an opportunity for any objections to the marriage to be voiced (for example, that one of the parties was already married or that the couple was related within a prohibited degree), but a failure to call banns did not affect the validity of the marriage.\n\nMarriage licences were introduced in the 14th century, to allow the usual notice period under banns to be waived, on payment of a fee and accompanied by a sworn declaration, that there was no canonical impediment to the marriage. Licences were usually granted by an archbishop, bishop or archdeacon. There could be a number of reasons for a couple to obtain a licence: they might wish to marry quickly (and avoid the three weeks' delay by the calling of banns); they might wish to marry in a parish away from their home parish; or, because a licence required a higher payment than banns, they might choose to obtain one as a status symbol.\n\nThere were two kinds of marriage licences that could be issued: the usual was known as a \"common licence\" and named one or two parishes where the wedding could take place, within the jurisdiction of the person who issued the licence. The other was the \"special licence\", which could only be granted by the Archbishop of Canterbury or his officials and allowed the marriage to take place in any church.\n\nTo obtain a marriage licence, the couple, or more usually the bridegroom, had to swear that there was no just cause or impediment why they should not marry. This was the marriage allegation. A bond was also lodged with the church authorities for a sum of money to be paid if it turned out that the marriage was contrary to Canon Law. The bishop kept the allegation and bond and issued the licence to the groom, who then gave it to the vicar of the church where they were to get married. There was no obligation for the vicar to keep the licence and many were simply destroyed. Hence, few historical examples of marriage licences, in England and Wales, survive. However, the allegations and bonds were usually retained and are an important source for English genealogy.\n\nHardwicke's Marriage Act 1753 affirmed this existing ecclesiastical law and built it into statutory law. From this date, a marriage was only legally valid, if it followed the calling of banns in church or the obtaining of a licence —the only exceptions being Jewish and Quaker marriages, whose legality was also recognised. From the date of Lord Hardwicke's Marriage Act up to 1837, the ceremony was required to be performed in a consecrated building.\n\nSince 1 July 1837, civil marriages have been a legal alternative to church marriages under the Marriage Act 1836, which provided the statutory basis for regulating and recording marriages. So, today, a couple has a choice between being married in the Anglican Church, after the calling of banns or obtaining a licence or else, they can give \"Notice of Marriage\" to a civil registrar. In this latter case, the notice is publicly posted for 15 days, after which a civil marriage can take place. Marriages may take place in churches other than Anglican churches, but these are governed by civil marriage law and notice must be given to the civil registrar in the same way. The marriage may then take place without a registrar being present if the church itself is registered for marriages and the minister or priest is an Authorised Person for marriages.\n\nThe licence does not record the marriage itself, only the permission for a marriage to take place. Since 1837, the proof of a marriage has been by a marriage certificate, issued at the ceremony; before then, it was by the recording of the marriage in a parish register.\n\nThe provisions on civil marriage in the 1836 Act were repealed by the Marriage Act 1949. The Marriage Act 1949 re-enacted and re-stated the law on marriage in England and Wales.\n\nMarriage law and practice in Scotland differs from that in England and Wales. Historically, it was always considered legal and binding for a couple to marry by making public promises, without a formal ceremony but this form has not been available since 1940. More recently \"marriage by cohabitation with repute\" has also been abolished for any relationship commenced since 2006. Church marriages \"without proclamation\" are somewhat analogous to the English \"marriages by licence\", although the permission to perform them is not a church matter. Religious marriages in Scotland have never had a restriction on the place in which they are performed. \nMarriages in Scotland normally require between 2 and 6 weeks’ notice to the district registrar depending on the previous marital status and other procedural matters usually involving the country of residence and the nationality of the parties. Marriages with less than the normal amount of notice require the permission of the Registrar General.\n\nIn the United States, until the mid-19th century, common-law marriages were recognized as valid, but thereafter some states began to invalidate common-law marriages. Common-law marriages, if recognized, are valid, notwithstanding the absence of a marriage license. North Carolina and Tennessee (which was originally western North Carolina) never recognized marriage at the common law as valid without a license unless entered into in other states. They have always recognized otherwise valid marriages (except bigamous, polygamous, interracial, or same-sex) entered into in conformity with the law of other states, territories and nations.\n\nThe specifications for obtaining a marriage license vary between states. In general, however, both parties must appear in person at the time the license is obtained; be of marriageable age (i.e., over 18 years; lower in some states with the consent of a parent); present proper identification (typically a driver's license, state ID card, birth certificate or passport; more documentation may be required for those born outside of the United States); and neither must be married to anyone else (proof of spouse's death or divorce may be required for someone who had been previously married in some states).\n\nThe US states of Florida, Connecticut, Wisconsin, Indiana, Oklahoma, Massachusetts, Mississippi, California, New York, and the District of Columbia once required blood tests before issuing a marriage license, but such requirements have since been abolished. The tests were mainly used to check for previous or current bouts of syphilis and rubella (German measles); other diseases that have been screened for before marriage in some cases have included tuberculosis, gonorrhea, and HIV, the last of which is the only one of those three that is detectable using a blood test.\n\nMany states require 1 to 6 days to pass between the granting of the license and the marriage ceremony. After the marriage ceremony, both spouses and the officiant sign the marriage license (some states also require one or two witnesses). The officiant or couple then files for a certified copy of the marriage license and a marriage certificate with the appropriate authority. Some states also have a requirement that a license be filed within a certain time after its issuance, typically 30 or 60 days, following which a new license must be obtained.\n\nMarriage licenses in the United States fall under the jurisdiction of the state in which the ceremony is performed; however, the marriage is generally recognized across the country. The state in which they are married holds the record of that marriage. Traditionally, working with law enforcement was the only means of searching and accessing marriage license information across state lines.\n\nSome groups and individuals believe that the requirement to obtain a marriage license is unnecessary or immoral. The Libertarian Party, for instance, believes that marriage should be a matter of personal liberty, not requiring permission from the state. \nIndividuals who align with this libertarian stance argue that marriage is a right, and that by allowing the state to exercise control over marriage, it falsely presupposes that we merely have the privilege, not the right, to marry. As an example of a right (as opposed to a privilege), those that are born in the US receive a birth certificate (certifying that they \"have been\" born), not a birth license (which would give them license so they \"could be\" born). Some Christian groups also argue that a marriage is a contract between a man and a woman presided over by God, so no authorization from the state is required. Some US states have started citing the state specifically as a party in the marriage contract which is seen by some as an infringement.\n\nMarriage licenses have also been the subject of controversy for affected minority groups. California's Proposition 8 has been the subject of heavy criticism by advocates of same-sex marriage, including the lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender (LGBT) community whose ability to marry is often limited by the aforementioned state intervention. This changed on June 26, 2015, with the Supreme Court decision in Obergefell v. Hodges. However, the state and federal intervention still continues to limit the ability of members of other minority religious groups from marrying according to the dictates of their religious tenets, as is the case with Islamic polygamy, for example. Polyamorous and polyandrous marriages are, likewise, still prohibited.\nIn October 2009, Keith Bardwell, a Louisiana justice of the peace, refused to issue a marriage license to an interracial couple, prompting civil liberties groups, such as the NAACP and ACLU, to call for his resignation or firing. Bardwell resigned his office on November 3.\n\nIn the state of Pennsylvania, self-uniting marriage licenses are available which require only the signatures of the bride and groom and witnesses. Although this is an accommodation for a Quaker wedding, any couple is able to apply for it.\n\nIn the Netherlands and Belgium, couples intending to marry are required to register their intention beforehand, a process called \"ondertrouw\".\n\nIn Mexico, only civil marriage is recognized as legal. Persons wishing to do so may also have a religious ceremony, but it has no legal effect and does not replace in any way the legal binding civil marriage. A civil wedding in Mexico is fully valid for legal purpose in the U.S. The Mexican civil registry does not issue marriage licences, it issues marriage certificates, because under Latin law, marriage is a legal right, not requiring a permit, marriages are performed without charge at the premises of the \"Registro Civil\" at the municipality hall of most counties and state houses in Mexico.\n\nPeople\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20137114", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20137114", "title": "Mary Hayden", "text": "Mary Hayden\n\nMary Teresa Hayden (1862–12 July 1942) was an Irish historian, Irish-language activist and campaigner for women's causes.\nMary Hayden was educated initially at the Dominican College, Eccles Street and then at Alexandra College in Dublin. She attended the Royal University of Ireland where she graduated with a BA (1885) and an MA (1887) in Modern Languages. With Agnes O'Farrelly she campaigned for women's rights in the university.\n\nA campaigner for gender equality and noted as a public speaker, she was a prominent member of the Irish Women's Suffrage and Local Government Association. She was a member of the Gaelic League and friends with Padraig Pearse. However, she opposed violence and disapproved of the 1916 Rising.\n\nIn 1911 she was elected to the senate of the National University of Ireland and in 1915 was appointed Professor of History at University College Dublin, a position she retained until her death.\n\nShe helped to form the Women's Social and Progressive League as a political party committed to opposing the 1937 constitution of Ireland and any regressive consequences it would entail. She opposed articles 40, 41, and 45 concerning the status of women.\n\n"}
{"id": "14257660", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14257660", "title": "Mengo Crisis", "text": "Mengo Crisis\n\nThe Mengo Crisis, also called the 1966 Buganda Crisis or the 1966 Crisis, domestically, was a period of political turmoil that occurred in Uganda. It was driven by conflict between Prime Minister Milton Obote and the Kabaka of Buganda, Mutesa II, culminating in a military assault upon the latter's residence that drove him into exile.\n\nIn 1960, Milton Obote helped to establish a political party in Uganda, known as the Uganda People's Congress (UPC). The UPC aimed to erode the power and influence of the \"Mengo Establishment\", a group of traditionalist Baganda that led the sub-national kingdom of Buganda. The Mengo Establishment, realising their disadvantageous situation, responded by founding the Kabaka Yekka (KY) the following year. The appropriation of the term \"Kabaka\" for political purposes was controversial, as it was the official title of the King of Buganda.\n\nThe Democratic Party (DP) won a majority in Uganda's first free national elections that year, and formed a government. The members of the UPC wished to unseat the DP and secure power, while those of the KY wanted to guarantee that the customary privileges of Buganda would be respected. Both disliked the Catholic orientation of the DP. Though diametrically opposed in most other respects, the UPC and KY formed an alliance in Parliament to remove the incumbent administration. They succeeded in forming a coalition government led by Obote by the time Uganda was granted independence by the United Kingdom in 1962. The KY held mostly insignificant portfolios, while Obote retained control of security services and armed forces. In 1963 the Kabaka of Buganda, Mutesa II, was elected President of Uganda, a largely ceremonial post. Obote supported Mutesa with the intention of appeasing the Baganda population.\n\nThe 1962 constitution granted Buganda a federal autonomy, but it did not provide a resolution to a territorial dispute surrounding the counties of Buyaga and Bugangaizi. The two regions had been annexed by Buganda from the Kingdom of Bunyoro around the turn of the 20th century with the United Kingdom's consent. Bunyoro had demanded the return of the \"lost counties\" before independence, but a compromise was reached whereby the matter would be settled by a referendum in 1964. Mutesa and Obote held opposing stances on the issue; the former wished for the territories to remain with Buganda, while the latter wanted them to be returned to Bunyoro. In an attempt to sway the vote, Mutesa arranged for large numbers of his subjects to settle in the counties. Obote foiled his plan by decreeing that only persons registered in the area for the 1962 elections could participate in the referendum. Mutesa then vainly attempted to bribe the electorate. The voters chose by a wide margin to return to Bunyoro. When Obote presented the necessary documents officiating the transfer of jurisdiction for Mutesa to sign as President of Uganda, the latter refused, declaring, \"I can never give away Buganda land.\" Obote signed in his place, but relations between the two men were strained by the ordeal.\n\nIn 1964 a right-leaning politician, Grace Ibingira, initiated a struggle to gain control of the UPC with the ultimate goal of deposing Obote from the party presidency. He successfully managed to purge the organisation of a number of leftists and became its secretary general. Meanwhile, Mutesa increasingly feared that the UPC would deny his kingdom its traditional autonomy. He concluded that in order to retain power he would have to garner influence in national politics. Mutsesa proceeded to instruct Baganda MPs to join the UPC with the goal of bolstering Ibingira's position and unseating Obote, thus allowing for a reorientation of the UPC-KY alliance that would be more favorable to Buganda. In early 1966 a banker leaked the financial records of Idi Amin, a soldier in the Ugandan army who had close ties with Prime Minister Obote. The documents implicated Amin in illicit gold trafficking along the Democratic Republic of the Congo border. KY MP Daudi Ochieng, a friend of the Kabaka, tabled a motion in Parliament charging Amin with corruption and accusing Obote of being complicit in his actions. The UPC resolved to reject the motion, but on 4 February, while Obote was away from Kampala, the capital, the cabinet decided to recognise the complaint. When Obote returned eleven days later, he was unable to dissuade his ministers from proceeding with an investigation. The cabinet attempted to convene on 22 February to appoint a commission of inquiry into the matter, but Obote swiftly placed five members under arrest; in addition to Ibingira, ministers Emmanuel Lumu, Balaki K. Kirya, Mathias Ngobi, and George Magezi were detained. Though the threat posed by Ibingira to his leadership was eliminated, Obote decided to consolidate his position by deprecating his ex-rival's allies, specifically Mutesa.\n\nIn February 1966, Prime Minister Milton Obote had changed the constitution, taking the powers of the presidency, formerly held by the Kabaka, for himself. The Kabaka is the ruler of Buganda, the largest and most influential of the five traditional kingdoms within Uganda, and the capital of the kingdom, Kampala, is also the capital of the country. The Kabaka at the time was Mutesa II. Kabaka Mutesa II protested Obote's actions, ordering Obote to leave Buganda lands and appealing to United Nations Secretary-General U Thant to intervene. Obote immediately accused the Kabaka of high treason and ordered his protégé, Idi Amin Dada, to lead troops against the Kabaka's residence on Mengo Hill, which was promptly surrounded.\n\nThe Kabaka called for his subjects to defend him, and many responded by acts of sabotage throughout Buganda, while thousands of monarchists attempted to set up blockades to hinder Amin's troops and engaged in running street skirmishes. However, the Kabaka's bodyguards were lightly armed with hunting rifles, especially as compared to the army units and, two days after the palace was surrounded, the palace was overrun and set alight. Kabaka Mutesa II himself escaped the compound during a cloudburst in the middle of the battle.\n\nJumping over bodies as they fled, Mutesa and 20 royal soldiers hauled each other over the six foot high brick walls of the palace. Unfortunately, Kabaka Mutesa landed in a precarious angle that left his back bone injured. But the king was free and that’s all that mattered.\" \n\nMutesa then hailed a passing taxi cab. The driver took him to the Rubaga Cathedral, where the priests (among them Emmanuel Wamala and Emmanuel Nsubuga) were having breakfast. After explaining what had happened, they gave him clerical robes and arranged for a driver to take him to Busiro County. Volunteers carried over 200 bodies of fallen Baganda to the morgue, while the military buried uncounted numbers in mass graves.\n\nWithin a few days the Kabaka and two of his bodyguards were able to cross the border to Burundi and exile. After brief stays in Nairobi and Addis Ababa he was given asylum in the United Kingdom where he stayed until death, under mysterious circumstances, in 1969. Various Baganda chiefs, members of the royal family and others thought loyal to the Kabaka, were imprisoned. The Lubiri Palace was almost completely destroyed in the course of the fighting and the looting which followed. Priceless historic artefacts and royal regalia were stolen and destroyed, including the sacred \"Mujaguzo\" drums. This desecration caused immense psychological suffering for many Bugandans who regarded the event as an apocalypse. Mutesa II died in exile, but was allowed to be buried in Buganda by a new president, Idi Amin. Amin promoted the narrative of a Muslim boy from the poor outskirts of the country taking on the Christian leader of Uganda's dominant tribe. The mystique of this action granted him greater legitimacy at least in some sub-populations.\n\nThe crisis led to two lawsuits being brought against Obote's government. Members of the Mengo establishment that were jailed by the new regime sued for their release. Egbert Udo Udoma, Chief Justice of the Supreme Court, granted it to them in his decision for \"Uganda vs Commissioner of Prisons ex parte Matovu\". When the Buganda government petitioned the court to declare Obote's actions invalid, Udoma ruled that Obote had orchestrated a coup which, according to international law, was a legitimate means of assuming power. He thus declared that Obote's government was legal and that the new constitution was in force.\n\n"}
{"id": "322123", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=322123", "title": "Mukden Incident", "text": "Mukden Incident\n\nThe Mukden Incident, or Manchurian Incident, was an event staged by Japanese military personnel as a pretext for the Japanese invasion in 1931 of northeastern China, known as Manchuria.\n\nOn 18 September 1931, Lt. Suemori Kawamoto detonated a small quantity of dynamite close to a railway line owned by Japan's South Manchuria Railway near Mukden (now Shenyang). The explosion was so weak that it failed to destroy the track, and a train passed over it minutes later. The Imperial Japanese Army accused Chinese dissidents of the act and responded with a full invasion that led to the occupation of Manchuria, in which Japan established its puppet state of Manchukuo six months later. The deception was soon exposed by the Lytton Report of 1932, leading Japan to diplomatic isolation and its March 1933 withdrawal from the League of Nations.\n\nThe bombing act is known as the Liutiaohu Incident (, Japanese: , \"Ryūjōko-jiken\"), and the entire episode of events is known in Japan as the Manchurian Incident (Kyūjitai: , Shinjitai: , \"Manshū-jihen\") and in China as the September 18 Incident ().\n\nJapanese economic presence and political interest in Manchuria had been growing ever since the end of the Russo-Japanese War (1904–1905). The Treaty of Portsmouth that ended the war had granted Japan the lease of the South Manchuria Railway branch (from Changchun to Lüshun) of the China Far East Railway. The Japanese government, however, claimed that this control included all the rights and privileges that China granted to Russia in the 1896 Li–Lobanov Treaty, as enlarged by the Kwantung Lease Agreement of 1898. This included absolute and exclusive administration within the South Manchuria Railway Zone. Japanese railway guards were stationed within the zone to provide security for the trains and tracks; however, these were regular Japanese soldiers, and they frequently carried out maneuvers outside the railway areas. There were many reports of raids on local Chinese villages by bored Japanese soldiers, and all complaints from the Chinese government were ignored.\n\nMeanwhile, the newly formed Chinese government was trying to recover the rights of nation. They started to claim that treaties between China and Japan were invalid. China also announced new acts, so the Japanese people (including Koreans and Taiwanese at this time) who settled frontier lands, opened stores or built their own houses in China were expelled without any compensation. Manchurian warlord Zhang Zuolin tried to deprive Japanese concessions too, but he was assassinated by the Japanese Kwantung Army. Zhang Xueliang, Zhang Zuolin's son and successor, joined the Nanjing Government led by Chiang Kai-shek from anti-Japanese sentiment. Official Japanese objections to the oppression against Japanese nationals within China were rejected by the Chinese authorities.\n\nThe 1929 Sino-Soviet conflict (July–November) over the Chinese Eastern Railroad (CER) further increased the tensions in the Northeast that would lead to the Mukden Incident. The Soviet Red Army victory over Zhang Xueiliang’s forces not only reasserted Soviet control over the CER in Manchuria but revealed Chinese military weaknesses that Japanese Kwantung Army officers were quick to note.\n\nThe Soviet Red Army performance also stunned Japanese officials. Manchuria was central to Japan’s East Asia policy. Both the 1921 and 1927 Imperial Eastern Region Conferences reconfirmed Japan’s commitment to be the dominant power in Manchuria. The 1929 Red Army victory shook that policy to the core and reopened the Manchurian problem. By 1930, the Kwantung Army realized they faced a Red Army that was only growing stronger. The time to act was drawing near and Japanese plans to conquer the Northeast were accelerated.\n\nIn Nanjing in April 1931, a national leadership conference of China was held between Chiang Kai-shek and Zhang Xueliang. They agreed to assert China's sovereignty in Manchuria strongly. On the other hand, some officers of the Kwantung Army began to plot to invade Manchuria secretly. There were other officers who wanted to support plotters in Tokyo.\n\nBelieving that a conflict in Manchuria would be in the best interests of Japan, and acting in the spirit of the Japanese concept of \"gekokujō\", Kwantung Army Colonel Seishirō Itagaki and Lieutenant Colonel Kanji Ishiwara independently devised a plan to prompt Japan to invade Manchuria by provoking an incident from Chinese forces stationed nearby. However, after the Japanese Minister of War Jirō Minami dispatched Major General Yoshitsugu Tatekawa to Manchuria for the specific purpose of curbing the insubordination and militarist behavior of the Kwantung Army, Itagaki and Ishiwara knew that they no longer had the luxury of waiting for the Chinese to respond to provocations, but had to stage their own.\n\nItagaki and Ishiwara chose to sabotage the rail section in an area near Liutiao Lake (; \"liǔtiáohú\"). The area had no official name and was not militarily important, but it was only eight hundred metres away from the Chinese garrison of Beidaying (; \"běidàyíng\"), where troops under the command of the \"Young Marshal\" Zhang Xueliang were stationed. The Japanese plan was to attract Chinese troops by an explosion and then blame them for having caused the disturbance in order to provide a pretext for a formal Japanese invasion. In addition, they intended to make the sabotage appear more convincing as a calculated Chinese attack on an essential target, thereby making the expected Japanese reaction appear as a legitimate measure to protect a vital railway of industrial and economic importance. The Japanese press labeled the site \"Liǔtiáo Ditch\" (; \"liǔtiáogōu) or \"Liǔtiáo Bridge\" (; \"liǔtiáoqiáo), when in reality, the site was a small railway section laid on an area of flat land. The choice to place the explosives at this site was to preclude the extensive rebuilding that would have been necessitated had the site actually been a railway bridge.\n\nColonel Seishirō Itagaki, Lieutenant Colonel Kanji Ishiwara, Colonel Kenji Doihara, and Major Takayoshi Tanaka had completed plans for the incident by 31 May 1931.\nThe plan was executed when 1st Lieutenant Suemori Komoto of the Independent Garrison Unit (独立守備隊) of the 29th Infantry Regiment, which guarded the South Manchuria Railway, placed explosives near the tracks, but far enough away to do no real damage. At around 10:20 pm (22:20), 18 September, the explosives were detonated. However, the explosion was minor and only a 1.5-meter section on one side of the rail was damaged. In fact, a train from Changchun passed by the site on this damaged track without difficulty and arrived at Shenyang at 10:30 pm (22:30).\n\nOn the morning of 19 September, two artillery pieces installed at the Mukden officers' club opened fire on the Chinese garrison nearby, in response to the alleged Chinese attack on the railway. Zhang Xueliang's small air force was destroyed, and his soldiers fled their destroyed Beidaying barracks, as five hundred Japanese troops attacked the Chinese garrison of around seven thousand. The Chinese troops were no match for the experienced Japanese troops. By the evening, the fighting was over, and the Japanese had occupied Mukden at the cost of five hundred Chinese lives and only two Japanese lives.\n\nAt Dalian in the Kwantung Leased Territory, Commander-in-Chief of the Kwantung Army General Shigeru Honjō was at first appalled that the invasion plan was enacted without his permission, but he was eventually convinced by Ishiwara to give his approval after the fact. Honjō moved the Kwantung Army headquarters to Mukden and ordered General Senjuro Hayashi of the Chosen Army of Japan in Korea to send in reinforcements. At 04:00 on 19 September, Mukden was declared secure.\n\nZhang Xueliang personally ordered his men not to put up a fight and to store away any weapons when the Japanese invaded. Therefore, the Japanese soldiers proceeded to occupy and garrison the major cities of Changchun and Antung and their surrounding areas with minimal difficulty. However, in November, General Ma Zhanshan, the acting governor of Heilongjiang, began resistance with his provincial army, followed in January by Generals Ting Chao and Li Du with their local Jilin provincial forces. Despite this resistance, within five months of the Mukden Incident, the Imperial Japanese Army had overrun all major towns and cities in the provinces of Liaoning, Jilin, and Heilongjiang.\n\nChinese public opinion strongly criticized Zhang Xueliang for his non-resistance to the Japanese invasion. While the Japanese presented a legitimate threat, the Kuomintang focused their efforts mainly on eradicating the communist party. Many charged that Zhang's Northeastern Army of nearly a quarter million could have withstood the Kwantung Army of only 11,000 men. In addition, his arsenal in Manchuria was considered the most modern in China, and his troops had possession of tanks, around 60 combat aircraft, 4000 machine guns, and four artillery battalions.\n\nZhang Xueliang's seemingly superior force was undermined by several factors. First was that the Kwantung Army had a strong reserve force that could be transported by railway from Korea, which was a Japanese colony, directly adjacent to Manchuria. Secondly, more than half of Zhang's troops were stationed south of the Great Wall in Hebei Province, while the troops north of the wall were scattered throughout Manchuria. Therefore, deploying Zhang's troops north of the Great Wall lacked the concentration needed to effectively fight the Japanese. Most of Zhang's troops were under-trained, poorly led, poorly fed, and had poor morale and questionable loyalty compared to their Japanese counterparts. Japanese secret agents had permeated Zhang's command because of his past (and his father, Zhang Zuolin's) reliance on Japanese military advisers. The Japanese knew the Northeastern Army very well and were able to conduct operations with ease.\n\nThe Chinese government was preoccupied with numerous internal problems, including the issue of the newly independent Guangzhou government of Hu Hanmin, Communist Party of China insurrections, and terrible flooding of the Yangtze River that created tens of thousands of refugees. Moreover, Zhang himself was not in Manchuria at the time, but was in a hospital in Beijing to raise money for the flood victims. However, in the Chinese newspapers, Zhang was ridiculed as \"General Nonresistance\" ().\n\nBecause of these circumstances, the central government turned to the international community for a peaceful resolution. The Chinese Foreign Ministry issued a strong protest to the Japanese government and called for the immediate stop to Japanese military operations in Manchuria, and appealed to the League of Nations, on 19 September. On 24 October, the League of Nations passed a resolution mandating the withdrawal of Japanese troops, to be completed by 16 November. However, Japan rejected the League of Nations resolution and insisted on direct negotiations with the Chinese government. Negotiations went on intermittently without much result.\n\nOn 20 November, a conference in the Chinese government was convened, but the Guangzhou faction of the Kuomintang insisted that Chiang Kai-shek step down to take responsibility for the Manchurian debacle. On 15 December, Chiang resigned as the Chairman of the Nationalist Government and was replaced as Premier of the Republic of China (head of the Executive Yuan) by Sun Fo, son of Sun Yat-sen. Jinzhou, another city in Liaoning, was lost to the Japanese in early January 1932. As a result, Wang Jingwei replaced Sun Fo as the Premier.\n\nOn 7 January 1932, United States Secretary of State Henry Stimson issued his Stimson Doctrine, that the United States would not recognize any government that was established as the result of Japanese actions in Manchuria. On 14 January, a League of Nations commission, headed by Victor Bulwer-Lytton, 2nd Earl of Lytton, disembarked at Shanghai to examine the situation. In March, the puppet state of Manchukuo was established, with the former emperor of China, Puyi, installed as head of state.\n\nOn 2 October, the Lytton Report was published and rejected the Japanese claim that the Manchurian invasion and occupation was an act of self-defense, although it did not assert that the Japanese had perpetrated the initial bombing of the railroad. The report ascertained that Manchukuo was the product of Japanese military aggression in China, while recognizing that Japan had legitimate concerns in Manchuria because of its economic ties there. The League of Nations refused to acknowledge Manchukuo as an independent nation. Japan resigned from the League of Nations in March 1933.\n\nColonel Kenji Doihara used the Mukden Incident to continue his campaign of disinformation. Since the Chinese troops at Mukden had put up such a poor resistance, he told Manchukuo Emperor Puyi that this was proof that the Chinese remained loyal to him. Japanese intelligence used the incident to continue the campaign to discredit the murdered Zhang Zuolin and his son Zhang Xueliang for \"misgovernment\" of Manchuria. In fact, drug trafficking and corruption had largely been suppressed under Zhang Zuolin.\n\nDifferent opinions still exist as to who caused the explosion on the Japanese railroad at Mukden. Strong evidence points to young officers of the Kwantung Army having conspired to cause the blast, with or without direct orders from Tokyo. Post-war investigations confirmed that the original bomb planted by the Japanese failed to explode, and a replacement had to be planted. The resulting explosion enabled the Japanese Kwantung Army to accomplish their goal of triggering a conflict with Chinese troops stationed in Manchuria and the subsequent establishment of the puppet state of Manchukuo.\n\nThe 9.18 Incident Exhibition Museum at Shenyang, opened by the People's Republic of China on 18 September 1991, takes the position that the explosives were planted by Japan. The Yūshūkan museum, located within Yasukuni Shrine in Tokyo, also places the blame on members of the Kwantung Army.\n\nDavid Bergamini's book \"Japan's Imperial Conspiracy\" (1971) has a detailed chronology of events in both Manchuria and Tokyo surrounding the Mukden Incident. Bergamini concludes that the greatest deception was that the Mukden Incident and Japanese invasion were planned by junior or hot-headed officers, without formal approval by the Japanese government. However, historian James Weland has concluded that senior commanders had tacitly allowed field operatives to proceed on their own initiative, then endorsed the result after a positive outcome was assured.\n\nIn August 2006, the \"Yomiuri Shimbun\", Japan's top-selling newspaper, published the results of a year-long research project into the general question of who was responsible for the \"Shōwa war\". With respect to the Manchurian Incident, the newspaper blamed ambitious Japanese militarists, as well as politicians who were impotent to rein them in or prevent their insubordination.\n\nDebate has also focused on how the incident was handled by the League of Nations and the subsequent Lytton Report. A. J. P. Taylor wrote that \"In the face of its first serious challenge\", the League buckled and capitulated. The Washington Naval Conference (1921) guaranteed a certain degree of Japanese hegemony in the Far East. Any intervention on the part of America would be a breach of the already mentioned agreement. Furthermore, Britain was in crisis, having been recently forced off the gold standard. Although a power in the Far East, Britain was incapable of decisive action. The only response from these powers was \"moral condemnation\".\n\nEach year at 10:00 am on 18 September, air-raid sirens sound for several minutes in numerous major cities across China. Provinces include Heilongjiang, Jilin, Liaoning, Hainan, and others.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6645446", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6645446", "title": "Myron Magnet", "text": "Myron Magnet\n\nMyron James Magnet (born August 31, 1944) is an American journalist and historian. He was the editor of \"City Journal\" from 1994 to 2007 and is now the magazine's Editor-at-Large.\n\nHis latest book, \"The Founders at Home: The Building of America, 1735–1817\", was published in 2013 by W. W. Norton.\n\nMagnet served as editor of \"City Journal\" from 1994 to 2007, and is now its editor-at-large. Under his editorship, the magazine helped shape Rudy Giuliani's agenda as mayor of New York City. Magnet has also served as a member of the Board of Editors at \"Fortune\" magazine, a publication for which he wrote numerous articles on social policy, management, and finance after joining its staff in 1980, in addition to publishing essays and op-eds in \"Commentary\", \"The Washington Monthly\", \"The Wall Street Journal\", and \"The New York Times\", among other publications.\n\nThe author of several books, he is best known for writing \"The Dream and the Nightmare: The Sixties' Legacy to the Underclass\", which President George W. Bush has cited as a profound influence on his approach to public policy. The central premise of the book is that culture powerfully shapes economic and social outcomes, and the dramatic cultural transformation that the United States experienced during the 1960s unintentionally created an entrenched underclass, whose social pathologies are still with us. His widely praised \" The Founders at Home \" recounts the story of the American Founding from the Zenger trial to the Battle of New Orleans through a series of vivid biographies that aim to explore each Founder's ideas and worldview as well as his actions.\n\nIn November, 2008, President Bush awarded Magnet the National Humanities Medal \"for scholarship and visionary influence in renewing our national culture of compassion. He has combined literary and cultural history with a profound understanding of contemporary urban life to examine new ways of relieving poverty and renewing civic institutions.\" \nMagnet graduated from Phillips Exeter Academy in 1962. He holds bachelor's degrees from both Columbia University (1966) and the University of Cambridge, as well an M.A. from Cambridge and a Ph.D. in English Literature from Columbia University, where he also taught for several years.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21820", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21820", "title": "Newlyn School", "text": "Newlyn School\n\nThe Newlyn School was an art colony of artists based in or near Newlyn, a fishing village adjacent to Penzance, Cornwall, from the 1880s until the early twentieth century. The establishment of the Newlyn School was reminiscent of the Barbizon School in France, where artists fled Paris to paint in a more pure setting emphasizing natural light. These schools along with a related California movement were also known as En plein air.\n\nNewlyn had a number of things guaranteed to attract artists: fantastic light, cheap living, and the availability of inexpensive models. The artists were fascinated by the fishermen's working life at sea and the everyday life in the harbour and nearby villages. Some paintings showed the hazards and tragedy of the community's life, such as women anxiously looking out to sea as the boats go out, or a young woman crying on hearing news of a disaster. Walter Langley is generally recognised as the pioneer of the Newlyn art colony and Stanhope Forbes as the father of it. The later Forbes School of Painting, founded by Stanhope Forbes and his wife Elizabeth in 1899, promoted the study of figure painting. A present-day Newlyn School of Art was formed in 2011 with Arts Council funding providing art courses taught by many of the best-known artists working in Cornwall today.\n\nIn the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries, Lamorna, a nearby fishing village to the south, became popular with artists of the Newlyn School and is particularly associated with the artist S. J. \"Lamorna\" Birch who lived there from 1908.\n\nNewlyn School painters include:\n\n\nFor a full list see: George Bednar. \"Every Corner was a Picture: A checklist compiled for the West Cornwall Art Archive of 50 artists from the early Newlyn School painters through to the present.\" \n\n\n"}
{"id": "41374712", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41374712", "title": "Order of the Hatchet", "text": "Order of the Hatchet\n\nThe Order of the Hatchet (Cat. \"Orde de l'Atxa\"; Sp. \"Orden del Hacha\") is a female honorific order supposedly founded in 1149, bestowed upon the women of the town of Tortosa, in Catalonia (Spain).\n\nThis order was founded during the Reconquista to honor women combatants in the site of Tortosa against Muslims. During that year, amid heavy fighting between the two fronts, Muslims besieged Tortosa after a withdrawal of Berenguer. In the absence of men to defend the city, women joined the fight, dressing as men and attacking with hatchets and anything else they could lay their hands on. They successfully repelled the attackers. Their participation was essential to the defense of Tortosa. In appreciation of these facts, Count Ramon Berenguer instituted the order of the hatchet for women who participated in that defense, which brought them privileges and tax exemptions, among other things.\n\nThis was not a military order, but it was one of the few female honorific orders. \n\nThe city of Tortosa, in northeastern Spain, was held by Islamic Moors until the Second Crusade. In 1148, Ramon Berenguer IV, Count of Barcelona led his forces to wrest control of the city. The crusading armies then moved on to attack other places. This left the city open to counter-attack in 1149. Moorish armies found the city well-defended, though, for the ladies of the town donned men's clothing and fought with whatever weapon was closest to hand, including hatchets. Berenguer was so impressed with the spirited defense that he created the Order of the Hatchet and bestowed it upon the women soldiers.\n\nThey were styled thus, according to Ashmole, The Institution, Laws, and Ceremony of the Most Noble Order of the Garter (1672), Ch. 3, sect. 3:\n\n\"The example is of the Noble Women of Tortosa in Aragon, and recorded by Josef Micheli Marquez, who plainly calls them Cavalleros or Knights, or may I not rather say Cavalleras, seeing I observe the words Equitissae and Militissae (formed from the Latin Equites and Milites) heretofore applied to Women, and sometimes used to express Madams or Ladies,though now these Titles are not known.\",\n\nThose in the Order were exempt from all taxes, and received precedence ahead of men in the public assemblies of the town. Furthermore, it was granted \"that all the Apparel and Jewels, though of never so great value, left by their dead Husbands, should be their own.\"\n\nNo other members were admitted to the order, and it is presumed that the order went defunct when the last member died.\n\nToton, Sir Edward III. Modern Chivalry (2013) \"The Order of the Hatchet\". Retrieved December 14, 2013.\n\nVelde, Francois. \"Women Knights of the Middle Ages\". Retrieved December 14, 2013.\n\nZoltack, Nicole. \"Female Knights and the Order of the Hatchet\". Retrieved December 14, 2013.\n"}
{"id": "9082469", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9082469", "title": "Personal life of Leonardo da Vinci", "text": "Personal life of Leonardo da Vinci\n\nThe personal life of Leonardo da Vinci (15 April 1452 – 2 May 1519) has been a subject of interest, inquiry, and speculation since the years immediately following his death. Leonardo has long been regarded as the archetypal Renaissance man, described by the Renaissance biographer Giorgio Vasari as having qualities that \"transcended nature\" and being \"marvellously endowed with beauty, grace and talent in abundance\". Interest in and curiosity about Leonardo has continued unabated for five hundred years. Modern descriptions and analysis of Leonardo's character, personal desires and intimate behavior have been based upon various sources: records concerning him, his biographies, his own written journals, his paintings, his drawings, his associates, and commentaries that were made concerning him by contemporaries.\n\nLeonardo was born on 15 April 1452, \"at the third hour of the night\" in the Tuscan hill town of Vinci, in the lower valley of the Arno River in the territory of the Republic of Florence. He was the out-of-wedlock son of the wealthy Messer Piero Fruosino di Antonio da Vinci, a Florentine legal notary, and an orphaned girl, Caterina di Meo Lippi. His full birth name was \"Leonardo di ser Piero da Vinci\", meaning \"Leonardo, (son) of (Mes)ser Piero from Vinci\". The inclusion of the title \"ser\" indicated that Leonardo's father was a gentleman.\n\nLeonardo spent his first five years in the hamlet of Anchiano in the home of his mother, then from 1457 lived in the household of his father, grandparents and uncle, Francesco, in the small town of Vinci. His father had married a sixteen-year-old girl named Albiera; Ser Piero married four times and produced children by his two later marriages. Leonardo's seven brothers were later to argue with him over the distribution of his father's estate.\n\nAt the age of about fourteen Leonardo was apprenticed by his father to the artist Andrea del Verrocchio. Leonardo was eventually to become a paid employee of Verrocchio's studio. During his time there, Leonardo met many of the most important artists to work in Florence in the late fifteenth century including Botticelli, Domenico Ghirlandaio and Pietro Perugino. Leonardo helped Verrocchio paint \"The Baptism of Christ\", completed around 1475. According to Vasari, Verrocchio, on seeing the beauty of the angel that his young pupil had painted, never painted again.\n\nFlorence was at this time a republic, but the city was increasingly under the influence of a single powerful family, the Medici, led by Lorenzo de' Medici, who came to be known as \"Lorenzo the Magnificent\". In 1481 Leonardo commenced an important commission, the painting of a large altarpiece for the church of S. Donato a Scopeto. The work was never completed. Leonardo left Florence and travelled to Milan carrying a gift from Lorenzo to the regent ruler, Ludovico Sforza. He was employed by Ludovico from 1481 to 1499, during which time his most important works were the \"Virgin of the Rocks\", the \"Last Supper\" and a huge model of a horse for an equestrian monument which was never completed. Other important events during this time were the arrival in his studio of the boy Salai in 1490, and in 1491 the marriage of Ludovico Sforza to Beatrice d'Este for which he organized the celebrations. When Milan was invaded by the French in 1499, Leonardo left and spent some time in Venice, and possibly Rome and Naples before returning to Florence.\n\nIn Florence, Leonardo lived at premises of the Servite Community, and at that time drew the large cartoon for the \"Madonna and Child and St Anne\" which attracted a lot of popular attention. He is also reported to have had a job to do for King Louis XII of France. Between 1506 and 1513 Leonardo was once again based mostly in Milan. In 1507 Francesco Melzi joined his household as an apprentice, and remained with him until his death. In 1513 Leonardo left Milan for Rome and was employed by the Medici family. In 1516 he went to France as court painter to King Francis I. The king gave the chateau of Clos Lucé as his home and regarded him with great esteem. It is said that the king held Leonardo's head as he died. Leonardo is buried in the Chapel of Saint-Hubert adjacent to the Château d'Amboise in France.\n\nDescriptions and portraits of Leonardo combine to create an image of a man who was tall, athletic and extremely handsome. He was at least 5 ft 8 in (1.73 m) tall, the length of his skeleton. Portraits indicate that as an older man, he wore his hair long, at a time when most men wore it cropped short, or reaching to the shoulders. While most men were shaven or wore close-cropped beards, Leonardo's beard flowed over his chest.\n\nHis clothing is described as being unusual in his choice of bright colours, and at a time when most mature men wore long garments, Leonardo's preferred outfit was the short tunic and hose generally worn by younger men. This image of Leonardo has been recreated in the statue of him that stands outside the Uffizi Gallery.\n\nAccording to Vasari, \"In the normal course of events many men and women are born with various remarkable qualities and talents; but occasionally, in a way that transcends nature, a single person is marvellously endowed by heaven with beauty, grace and talent in such abundance that he leaves other men far behind... Everyone acknowledged that this was true of Leonardo da Vinci, an artist of outstanding physical beauty who displayed infinite grace in everything he did and who cultivated his genius so brilliantly that all problems he studied were solved with ease. He possessed great strength and dexterity; he was a man of regal spirit and tremendous breadth of mind...\"\n\nLeonardo's face is best known from a drawing in red chalk that appears to be a self-portrait. However, there is some controversy over the identity of the subject, because the man represented appears to be of a greater age than the 67 years lived by Leonardo. A solution which has been put forward is that Leonardo deliberately aged himself in the drawing, as a modern forensic artist might do, in order to provide a model for Raphael's painting of him as Plato in \"The School of Athens\".\nA profile portrait in the Ambrosiana Gallery in Milan is generally accepted to be a portrait of Leonardo, and also depicts him with flowing beard and long hair. This image was repeated in the woodcut designed for the first edition of Vasari's \"Lives\".\n\nIn a 2008 TED talk, artist Siegfried Woldhek, based on Leonardo's features in Andrea del Verrocchio's bronze statue of \"David\", proposed that Leonardo may have done three self-portraits: \"Portrait of a Musician\", the \"Vitruvian Man\" and the aforementioned \"Portrait of a Man in Red Chalk\".\n\nIt has been written that Leonardo \"may be the most universally recognized left-handed artist of all time\", a fact documented by numerous Renaissance authors, and manifested conspicuously in his drawing and handwriting. In his notebooks, he wrote in mirror image because of his left handedness (it was easier for him), and he was falsely accused of trying to protect his work. Early Italian connoisseurs were divided as to whether Leonardo also drew with his right hand. More recently, Anglo-American art historians have for the most part discounted suggestions of ambidexterity.\n\nLeonardo da Vinci was described by his early biographers as a man with great personal appeal, kindness, and generosity. He was generally well loved by his contemporaries.\n\nAccording to Vasari, \"Leonardo's disposition was so lovable that he commanded everyone's affection\". He was \"a sparkling conversationalist\" who charmed Ludovico il Moro with his wit. Vasari sums him up by saying: \"In appearance he was striking and handsome, and his magnificent presence brought comfort to the most troubled soul; he was so persuasive that he could bend other people to his will. He was physically so strong that he could withstand violence and with his right hand he could bend the ring of an iron door knocker or a horseshoe as if they were lead. He was so generous that he fed all his friends, rich or poor... Through his birth Florence received a very great gift, and through his death it sustained an incalculable loss.\"\n\nSome of Leonardo's philosophies can be found in a series of fables that he wrote. Prevalent themes include the dangers of an inflated sense of self-worth, often as described in opposition to the benefits that one can gain through awareness, humility and endeavour.\n\nLittle is known about Leonardo's intimate relationships from his own writing. Some evidence of Leonardo's personal relationships emerges both from historic records and from the writings of his many biographers.\n\nLeonardo maintained long-lasting relationships with two pupils who were apprenticed to him as children. These were Gian Giacomo Caprotti da Oreno, who entered his household in 1490 at the age of 10, and Count Francesco Melzi, the son of a Milan aristocrat who was apprenticed to Leonardo by his father in 1506, at the age of 14, remaining with him until his death.\n\nGian Giacomo was nicknamed \"Salai\" or \"il Salaino\" meaning \"the little devil\". Vasari describes him as \"a graceful and beautiful youth with fine curly hair\". The \"Little Devil\" lived up to his nickname: a year after his entering the household Leonardo made a list of the boy’s misdemeanours, calling him \"a thief, a liar, stubborn, and a glutton\". But despite Salai's thievery and general delinquency — he made off with money and valuables on at least five occasions, spent a fortune on apparel, including twenty-four pairs of shoes, and eventually died in a duel — he remained Leonardo's servant, and assistant for thirty years. At Leonardo's death he was bequeathed the \"Mona Lisa\", a valuable piece even then, valued in Salai's own will at the equivalent of £200,000.\n\nMelzi accompanied Leonardo in his final days in France. On Leonardo's death he wrote a letter to inform Leonardo's brothers, describing him as \"like an excellent father to me\" and goes on to say: \"Everyone is grieved at the loss of such a man that Nature no longer has it in her power to produce.\"\nMelzi subsequently played an important role as the guardian of Leonardo's notebooks, preparing them for publication in the form directed by the master, but was not to see this project realized.\n\nLittle is self-revealed about Leonardo's sexuality, as, although he left hundreds of pages of writing, very little of it is personal in nature. He left no letters, poetry or diary that indicate any romantic interest. He never married and it cannot be stated with certainty that he had a sexually intimate relationship with any person, male or female. One of the few references that Leonardo made to sexuality in his notebooks states: \"The act of procreation and anything that has any relation to it is so disgusting that human beings would soon die out if there were no pretty faces and sensuous dispositions.\" This statement has been the subject of various extrapolations and interpretations in attempts to gain a picture of his sexuality.\n\nThe only historical document concerning Leonardo's sexual life is an accusation of sodomy made in 1476, while he was still at the workshop of Verrocchio. Florentine court records show that on April9, 1476, an anonymous denunciation was left in the \"tamburo\" (letter box) in the Palazzo della Signoria (town hall) accusing a young goldsmith and male prostitute, Jacopo Saltarelli (sometimes referred to as an artist's model) of being \"party to many wretched affairs and consents to please those persons who request such wickedness of him\". The denunciation accused four people of sodomizing Saltarelli: Leonardo da Vinci, a tailor named Baccino, Bartolomeo di Pasquino, and Leonardo Tornabuoni, a member of the aristocratic Tornabuoni family. Saltarelli's name was known to the authorities because another man had been convicted of sodomy with him earlier the same year. Charges against the five were dismissed on the condition that no further accusations appear in the \"tamburo\". The same accusation did in fact appear on June 7 but charges were again dismissed. The charges were dismissed because the accusations did not meet the legal requirement for prosecution: all accusations of sodomy had to be signed, but this one was not. (Such accusations could be made secretly, but not anonymously.) There is speculation that since the family of one of the accused, Leonardo Tornabuoni, was associated with Lorenzo de' Medici, the family exerted its influence to secure the dismissal. Sodomy was theoretically an extremely serious offense, carrying the death penalty, but its very seriousness made it equally difficult to prove. It was also an offence for which punishment was very seldom handed down in contemporary Florence, where homosexuality was sufficiently widespread and tolerated to make the word \"Florenzer\" (Florentine) slang for homosexual in Germany.\n\nMichael White points out that willingness to discuss aspects of Leonardo's sexual identity has varied according to contemporary attitudes. His near-contemporary biographer Vasari makes no reference to Leonardo's sexuality whatsoever. In the 20th century biographers made explicit reference to a probability that Leonardo was homosexual though others concluded that for much of his life he was celibate.\nElizabeth Abbott, in her \"History of Celibacy\", contends that, although Leonardo was probably homosexual, the trauma of the sodomy case converted him to celibacy for the rest of his life. A similar view of a homosexually-inclined but chaste Leonardo appears in a famous 1910 paper by Sigmund Freud, \"Leonardo da Vinci, A Memory of His Childhood\", which analysed a memory Leonardo described of having been attacked as a baby by a bird of prey that opened his mouth and \"stuck me with the tail inside my lips again and again\". Freud claimed the symbolism was clearly phallic, but argued that Leonardo's homosexuality was latent: that he did not act on his desires.\n\nOther authors contend that Leonardo was actively homosexual. Serge Bramly states that \"the fact that Leonardo warns against lustfulness certainly need not mean that he himself was chaste\". David M. Friedman argues that Leonardo's notebooks show a preoccupation with men and with sexuality uninterrupted by the trial and agrees with art historian Kenneth Clark that Leonardo never became sexless.\n\nMichael White, in \"Leonardo: The First Scientist\", says it is likely that the trial simply made Leonardo cautious and defensive about his personal relationships and sexuality, but did not dissuade him from intimate relationships with men: \"there is little doubt that Leonardo remained a practising homosexual\".\n\nLeonardo's late painting of \"John the Baptist\" is often cited as support of the case that Leonardo was homosexual. There is also an erotic drawing of Salai known as \"The Incarnate Angel\", perhaps by the hand of Leonardo, which was one of a number of such drawings once among those contained in the British Royal Collection, but later dispersed. The particular drawing, showing an angel with an erect phallus, was rediscovered in a German collection in 1991. It appears to be a humorous take on Leonardo's \"St. John the Baptist\". The painting of John the Baptist was copied by several of Leonardo's followers, including Salai. The drawing may also be by one of Leonardo's pupils, perhaps Salai himself, as it appears to have been drawn by the right, rather than the left hand, and bears strong resemblance to Salai's copy of the painting.\n\nLeonardo da Vinci had a number of powerful patrons, including the King of France. He had, over the years, a large number of followers and pupils. \n\nGiorgio Vasari says of the child Leonardo \"He would have been very proficient in his early lessons, if he had not been so volatile and flexible; for he was always setting himself to learn a multitude of things, most of which were shortly abandoned. When he began the study of arithmetic, he made, within a few months, such remarkable progress that he could baffle his master with the questions and problems that he raised... All the time, through all his other enterprises, Leonardo never ceased drawing...\"\n\nLeonardo's father, Ser Piero, realising that his son's talents were extraordinary, took some of his drawings to show his friend, Andrea del Verrocchio, who ran one of the largest artists' workshops in Florence. Leonardo was accepted for apprenticeship and \"soon proved himself a first class geometrician\". Vasari says that during his youth Leonardo made a number of clay heads of smiling women and children from which casts were still being made and sold by the workshop some 80 years later. Among his earliest significant known paintings are an Annunciation in the Uffizi, the angel that he painted as a collaboration with Verrocchio in the Baptism of Christ, and a small predella of the Annunciation to go beneath an altarpiece by Lorenzo di Credi. The little predella picture is probably the earliest.\n\nThe diversity of Leonardo's interests, remarked on by Vasari as apparent in his early childhood, was to express itself in his journals which record his scientific observations of nature, his meticulous dissection of corpses to understand anatomy, his experiments with machines for flying, for generating power from water and for besieging cities, his studies of geometry and his architectural plans, as well as personal memos and creative writing including fables.\n\nLeonardo sent the following letter to Ludovico Sforza, the ruler of Milan, in 1482:\n\nIt appears from Vasari's description that Leonardo first learned to play the lyre as a child and that he was very talented at improvisation. In about 1479 he created a lyre in the shape of a horse's head, which was made \"mostly of silver\", and of \"sonorous and resonant\" tone. Lorenzo de' Medici saw this lyre and wishing to better his relationship with Ludovico Sforza, the usurping Duke of Milan, he sent Leonardo to present this lyre to the Duke as a gift. Leonardo's musical performances so far surpassed those of Ludovico's court musicians that the Duke was delighted.\n\nLeonardo always loved nature. One of the reasons was because of his childhood environment. Near his childhood house were mountains, trees, and rivers. There were also many animals. This environment gave him the perfect chance to study the surrounding area; it also may have encouraged him to have interest in painting. Later in life he recalls his exploration of an ominous cavern in the mountains as formative.\n\nLeonardo's love of animals has been documented both in contemporary accounts as recorded in early biographies, and in his notebooks. Remarkably for the period, he even questioned the morality of eating animals when it was not necessary for health. Statements from his notebook and a comment by a contemporary have led to the widely held view that he was vegetarian.\n\nEdward MacCurdy (one of the two translators and compilers of Leonardo's notebooks into English) wrote:\n\nLeonardo wrote the following in his notebooks, which were not deciphered and made available for reading until the 19th century:\n\nOne might question Leonardo's concern for human life, given his weapon designs. Nothing came of his designs for offensive weapons. It is possible his mention of his capabilities of creating weapons helped him in his quest to find powerful patrons, or perhaps he was fond of drawing them as he was of gargoyles. He did work on fortifications, however. In his own words:\n\n\"When besieged by ambitious tyrants I find a means of offence and defense in order to preserve the chief gift of nature, which is liberty; and first I would speak of the position of the walls, and then of how the various peoples can maintain their good and just lords.\"\n\nHe referred to war as \"pazzia bestialissima\", the \"most bestial madness\".\n\n\"And thou, man, who by these labours dost look upon the marvelous works of nature, if thou judgest it to be an atrocious act to destroy the same, reflect that it is an infinitely atrocious act to take away the life of man.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11149541", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11149541", "title": "Peter Benjamin Graham", "text": "Peter Benjamin Graham\n\nPeter Benjamin Graham (4 June 1925 – 15 April 1987), was an Australian visual artist, printer, and art theorist.\n\nIn 1954, Graham began to explore native Australian wildlife (notably Kangaroos) and themes associated with Aboriginal culture, using the visual languages of European figurative Modernism and later geometric abstraction.\n\nHe began developing a new form of visual geometry related to Chaos Theory from 1960, eventually called Thematic Orchestration. This new visual language enabled the 2D deconstruction and synthesis of an observed subject, in a way fundamentally different from traditional abstraction. Thematic Orchestration allows the artist to 'grow' an image, producing almost infinite conscious invention.\n\nIn 1964, Graham began developing what he called a high level visual notation system for pure visual imagery, which he first named \"Notation Painting\" and later \"New Epoch Art\".\n\nGraham became a pioneer of the Australian artist run initiative movement, running The Queensberry Street Gallery in association with Victorian Printmakers' Group from 1973 until 1978.\n\nIn 2006, Graham's 1945 painting \"Peter Lalor Addressing the Miners Before Eureka\" featured in a major Australian travelling exhibition celebrating the 150th anniversary of the Eureka Stockade. This painting is also featured in Riot or Revolution, a dramatised history documentary on the Eureka Stockade directed by Don Parham and produced by Parham Media Productions in association with the Australian Broadcasting Corporation in 2005.\n\nPeter Graham was born 4 June 1925 and raised in the Melbourne suburb of Hartwell. He was awarded scholarship to Melbourne Technical College Art School for one year in 1939. He studied Hand Lithography with Ross McClintock Studios (Colour separation from artists' originals, drawn as lithographic plates – 24 sheet positives, etc.) between 1940 and 1941. Graham transferred his indenture to PhotoGravures Pty Ltd. in 1941. There, he was trained by master craftsmen in facsimile reproduction and pre-press Rotogravure techniques during war years. He received his Certificate of Completion of apprenticeship in 1946.\n\nBetween 1941 and 1946, Graham studied fine art with Victor Greenhalgh and John Rowell in night classes at Melbourne Technical College – figure and portraiture.\n\nIn 1945, Graham joined the Victorian Artists Society, and exhibited his first painting in the Australia at War Exhibition at the National Gallery of Victoria. At the same time, he began his association with the Melbourne Social Realism group that included: Noel Counihan, Josl Berger, Victor O'Connor, Ma Mahood, Herbert McClintock, Rembrandt McClintock, Frank Andrew, and Nutta Buzzacott. He exhibited regularly at the Victorian Artists Society until 1947.\n\nIn 1946, he was awarded the Ferntree Gully Art Prize for best watercolour, 'Back Streets of Hawthorn', a year later he was awarded The Herald prize for best drawing, 'The Smokers'. He left for England with Grahame King in August 1947.\n\nBetween 1947 and 1949, Graham lived and painted at The Abbey Arts Centre in New Barnet London, along with artists, Leonard French, James Gleeson, Douglas Green, Stacha Halpern, Grahame King, Inge King and Robert Klippel. During this time he also befriended the Irish 'folk' artist Gerald Dillon who lived nearby, and who introduced Graham to the visual languages of Picasso and Matise. He exhibited in group shows at William Ohly's Berkeley Galleries, and the Contemporary Artists' Society in London.\n\nIn 1948, Graham studied drawing under Bernard Meninsky at Central School of Art, London. But with his money running short, he decided to go back to work at Odhams Press, specialising in the inverted half-tone Dultgen process and masked colour separation until 1950.\n\nIn 1950, Graham travelled through France and Italy before returning to Sydney under three-year contract to Australian Consolidated Press working as a specialist in colour separation.\n\nBetween 1951 and 1953, Graham exhibited paintings in various group shows in Sydney, including the Inaugural Blake Prize for Religious Art.\n\nIn 1954, Graham rode a BSA 500 motorcycle non-stop from Sydney to Melbourne. After rebuilding the bike, he headed across to Adelaide then rode solo up along the route of what is now the Stuart Highway to Alice Springs over five days. There he worked as a builder's labourer for 18 months while painting on the side, until the end of 1955. During this time he worked and painted alongside Aboriginal artists, Adolf Inkamala and the Pareroultja Brothers. He helped build the John Flynn Memorial Church and government housing at Hermannsburg Mission. At Hermannsburg, Graham met anthropologist Ted Strehlow, who transformed his way of seeing the Australian landscape and Aboriginal culture.\nGraham spent six months in Fiji painting and drawing in 1956.\n1956–1960: Graham returned to Melbourne, rejoined PhotoGravures Pty Ltd. Shared a studio with Leonard French and befriended the New Zealand born artist George Johnson, who introduced Graham to the work of Kandinsky, Klee and Mondrian. Painted a series of abstract works based on his Central Australian experience. These were exhibited at Gallery A (Melbourne) in 1960, founded in the same year by Max Hutchinson and Clement Meadmore.\n\n\nFrom 1971 to 1978, Graham created a series of experimental works using photographic and lithographic techniques and materials.\n\nIn 1971, Graham befriended artist Paul Cavell and collaborated with him on his Notation Paintings between 1974 and 1976.\n\nIn 1973, he opened the Peter Graham Gallery at 225 Queensberry Street, Carlton (6 April) supported by a photo-lithographic workshop in the same premises. Closed this gallery in 1974 and reopened it as the Queensberry Street Gallery in 1977.\n\nGraham's Solo Exhibitions at the Queensberry Street Gallery:\n\nDuring 1977, Graham collaborated with Noela Hjorth and the Victorian Printmakers' Group which at the time was lobbying for space in the Victorian Government's proposed Meatmarket Craft space. He was appointed to the Interim Committee in the formation stages of the Meatmarket Craft Centre and helped to draw up a plan for the establishment of an access workshop for Printmakers at the Meatmarket. As part of his involvement, he had set up a plate-graining service for artists and student Printmakers and became the manager of this facility.\n\nVictorian Printmakers' Workshop group show opened at The Queensberry Street Gallery by Professor Bernard Smith 26 July 1977.\n\nGraham closed his gallery in 1978 and transferred his workshop to a home studio in Canterbury (Melbourne) at the end of the year.\n\n\nGraham returned to development of Notation Painting in 1986 in collaboration with his son, Philip Mitchell Graham. Arranged with Jan Martin for a retrospective exhibition to be held at her gallery in Lyttleton Street, Castlemaine, Victoria.\n\nGraham admitted to Hospital where he was diagnosed with Cancer of the oesophagus December 1986.\n\nGraham died 15 April 1987 at Heidelberg Repatriation Hospital, Melbourne.\n\nA memorial exhibition for Graham opened at the Lyttleton Gallery, Castlemaine in central Victoria on 6 June 1987, two days after what would have been his 62nd birthday.\n\n\n\n\nThere are currently two tape recordings by Peter Graham available at the National Library of Australia, Petherick Oral History Reading Room. Unfortunately they are incorrectly catalogued at this time: Call Number: ORAL TRC 2490 (please quote to locate catalogue entry) :Record ID: 2069617 Graham, Cynthia, Interview with Cynthia Graham [sound recording] / interviewer: Barbara Blackman. Published: 13 July 1989 Description: 2 sound cassettes. Notes: Has transcript.\n\nIn fact these two recordings are as follows:\n"}
{"id": "7558207", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7558207", "title": "Sparagmos", "text": "Sparagmos\n\nSparagmos (, from σπαράσσω \"sparasso\", \"tear, rend, pull to pieces\") is an act of rending, tearing apart, or mangling, usually in a Dionysian context.\n\nIn Dionysian rite as represented in myth and literature, a living animal, or sometimes even a human being, is sacrificed by being dismembered. \"Sparagmos\" was frequently followed by omophagia (the eating of the raw flesh of the one dismembered). It is associated with the Maenads or Bacchantes, followers of Dionysus, and the Dionysian Mysteries. Historically, however, there is little indication that women celebrating the rites of Dionysus dismembered animals or ate raw flesh.\n\nExamples of \"sparagmos\" appear in Euripides's play \"The Bacchae\". In one scene guards sent to control the Maenads witness them pulling a live bull to pieces with their hands. Later, after King Pentheus has banned the worship of Dionysus, the god lures him into a forest, to be torn limb from limb by Maenads, including his own mother Agave. According to some myths, Orpheus, regarded as a prophet of Orphic or Bacchic religion, died when he was dismembered by raging Thracian women. \n\nMedea is said to have killed and dismembered her brother whilst fleeing with Jason and the stolen fleece in order to delay their pursuers, who would be compelled to collect the remains of the prince for burial. The Italian film director Pier Paolo Pasolini staged a sparagmos ritual as part of a long sequence near the beginning of his film \"Medea\" (1969), before dramatising the episode in which Medea kills her brother in a similar way.\n\nInterpreting the ritual through the lens of the Freudian Oedipus complex, Catherine Maxwell identifies \"sparagmos\" as a form of castration, particularly in the case of Orpheus.\n\nIn contemporary literature, this is used in Tennessee Williams's play \"Suddenly, Last Summer\". \n\nSparagmos is also briefly mentioned in Donna Tartt's \"The Secret History\".\n\nSparagmos is a central theme in Dimitris Lyacos's The First Death recounting the torments of a mutilated protagonist stranded on an island. The book draws upon the dismemberment of Dionysus as well as ancient Greek rituals and practices.\n\n"}
{"id": "2626279", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2626279", "title": "Sun and planet gear", "text": "Sun and planet gear\n\nThe sun and planet gear is a method of converting reciprocating motion to rotary motion and was used in the first rotative beam engines.\n\nIt was invented by the Scottish engineer William Murdoch, an employee of Boulton and Watt, but was patented by James Watt in October 1781. It was invented to bypass the patent on the crank, already held by James Pickard. It played an important part in the development of devices for rotation in the Industrial Revolution.\n\nThe sun and planet gear converted the vertical motion of a beam, driven by a steam engine, into circular motion using a 'planet', a cogwheel fixed at the end of the connecting rod (connected to the beam) of the engine. With the motion of the beam, this revolved around, and turned, the 'sun', a second rotating cog fixed to the drive shaft, thus generating rotary motion. An interesting feature of this arrangement, when compared to that of a simple crank, is that when both sun and planet have the same number of teeth, the drive shaft completes two revolutions for each double stroke of the beam instead of one. The planet gear is fixed to the connecting rod and thus does not rotate around its own axis.\n\nNote that the axle of the planet gear is tied to the axle of the sun gear by a link that freely rotates around the axis of the sun gear and keeps the planet gear engaged with the sun gear but does not contribute to the drive torque. This link appears, at first sight, to be similar to a crank but the drive is not transmitted through it. Thus, it did not contravene the crank patent.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11720467", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11720467", "title": "Timeline of the introduction of color television in countries", "text": "Timeline of the introduction of color television in countries\n\nThis is a list of when the first color television broadcasts were transmitted to the general public. Non-public field tests and closed-circuit demonstrations are not included.\n\nCountries and territories which never had black and white television (i.e. the first broadcasts were in color), such as Zanzibar, Brunei, Botswana, Laos, South Africa, Grenada, Namibia, Macau, Sri Lanka, Papua New Guinea, Fiji, Saint Lucia, Palau, Bhutan, Vanuatu, Faroe Islands, Malawi, Antigua and Barbuda, The Gambia, Tonga, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines. Liechtenstein, San Marino, Somalia, Cameroon, Cape Verde, São Tomé and Príncipe, Dominica, Tanzania and Nepal are not included in this list.\n"}
{"id": "2935655", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2935655", "title": "Veterans Memorial Highway", "text": "Veterans Memorial Highway\n\nVeterans Memorial Highway is the name chosen for the following roads:\n\n\nMultiple separate highways in Michigan each bear the designation \"Veterans Memorial Highway\", \"Veterans Memorial Freeway\", \"Veterans Memorial Drive\" or \"Veterans Memorial Parkway\":\n\n"}
{"id": "30835391", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30835391", "title": "Virginia C. Bulat", "text": "Virginia C. Bulat\n\nVirginia Catherine Bulat, the pen and maiden name of Virginia Bulat Carroll (23 March 1938- 21 December 1986), was an independent scholar and historian of local Illinois history. Bulat was born in Chicago, Illinois and attended Nazareth Academy in La Grange, Illinois (1952–1956).\n\nBulat was the daughter of Edmund Peter Bulat, winner of the 1933 State of Illinois middleweight Golden Gloves amateur boxing championship.\n\nBulat worked in the publishing industry in Chicago in the early 1960s. She later became an amateur archaeologist and worked for the U.S. Geological Survey and the U.S. State Department. Bulat was a third-generation American of Austrian-Polish heritage. The surname Bulat makes reference to bulat steel. In 1963, she married James B. Carroll, a career U.S. diplomat and graduate of the University of Notre Dame. She was the mother of four children (Margaret Mary, James Edmund, Mary Elizabeth and Patrick Braerton).\n\nAs a high school student Bulat began interviewing elderly residents in the vicinity of Lyons, Illinois and Riverside, Illinois. Many had recollections of the region before it became part of the western suburbs of Chicago. Notes from these interviews and early photos were published in collaboration with Rose Marie Benedditi in the books \"Lyons: A history of a village and area important for 300 years\" (1959) and \"Portage, pioneers, and pubs: A history of Lyons, Illinois\" (1963).\n\nBoth books prominently feature Hofmann Tower, a landmark on the Des Plaines River between the towns of Lyons and Riverside, Illinois. George Hofmann, Jr., a local brewer built a dam on the Des Plaines River to generate electricity. He also built the adjacent tower as part of park that attracted visitors to picnic and ride boats. In the 1970s and 1980s, co-author Rose Marie Benedetti worked closely with the preservation efforts of the Village of Lyons Historical Commission to have Hofmann Tower designated a village and state landmark and placed on the National Register of Historic Places.\n\n"}
{"id": "30276560", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30276560", "title": "Wallblake House", "text": "Wallblake House\n\nWallblake House is a heritage plantation house and museum annex in The Valley, Anguilla in the northeastern Caribbean. Built in 1787 by Will Blake, a sugar planter, it is stated to be the oldest structure on the island. Although gutted by the French in the late 1790s, it was rebuilt by the British and today has been fully restored, with its kitchen complex, stables and slave quarters intact. A church in the vicinity contains a stone fascia with open-air side walls and a ceiling, which is the form of a hull of a ship.\n\nWallblake House is one of the ten heritage houses in The Valley that was refurbished over a seven-year period and completed in 2004, at a cost of EC$250,000 (about US$92,000). The Wallblake Trust gained the support of the Catholic Church, many local enthusiasts and NGOS. The Heritage Trail Committee has raised the status of this house consequent to an agreement between the Wallblake Trust and the Anguilla Heritage Trail. It is Anguilla's only surviving plantation house.\n\nThe house was built in the mid to late 1700s. The name \"Walblake\" is probably a distortion of Valentine Blake, whose property in the Valley is mentioned in a deed from the 1690s. The construction date, 1787, is noted from an inscription on an old brick on the northern kitchen wing. The first historical event that occurred at the house was the French invasion by Victor Hugues of this island in 1796 when the Wallblake House witnessed a “crippled Anguillian” known as Hodge, taking shelter in its cellar. However, he could not escape the French soldiers who caught and executed him. This was followed by their gutting the property. The execution of the injured Anguillian further lead to a reparation reflex reaction by the Anguillians as they executed the French prisoners of war who had been detained in the Old Court House on Crocus Hill, without trial. However, the French were not successful in their invasion effort as the local Angullians put up a brave fight and were supported by the British ship, the HMS \"Lapwing\", arriving on the scene at the right time. After this incident, the Wallblake estate was rebuilt. The house was owned by the planter Valentine Blake for some time.\n\nIn the 1800s, when Anguilla experienced severe drought, the estate resorted to raising economic crops such as sugar and cotton over an area of of plantation, but with little success, the same being true with the other Anguillian plantations. Thereafter, the estate saw several owners. In the 1900s, it was with Carter Rey, a rich business baron who had bought the estate from the Lake family. Next, it was owned by his younger brother Frank Rey. In 1959, Marie Rey Lake, who had converted from the Anglican Church to being a Roman Catholic, donated the house to the Catholic Church, which continues to own it till this day. The house was leased to the Department of Tourism in 1978 for a time when they refurbished it. After the lease expired, the house was returned to the Roman Catholic Church and currently functions as a rectory.\n\nNow the heritage monument is being planned to depict the history of the island and the Anguilla’s Heritage Trail. In this effort, Lilli Azevedo, an archaeologist and Heritage Trail Committee member who is providing the narration support, has planned to give expositions of the archaeological findings of Fountain Cavern related to the Amerindian archaeology of Anguilla.\n\nThe house has a stone foundation. The roof is formed with Guyanese hardwood and is shingled. The upper section is wooden. The original structure was built with dressed stones that were probably brought from East End or even Scrub Island. The lime mortar for jointing was made from a mixture of burnt coral and shells with admixtures of molasses and marl. The original timber has been retained in the upper floors. The structure has double paneling. Intricate carvings on its edges give the effect of a \"tray ceiling\", that is, the appearance of inverted trays hung from the roof as if rope is tied to the edges to hide any defects in its construction.\n\nThe heritage building has been restored to its original design and colour scheme. The elegant and decorative designs that existed in the original building have been fully retained.\n\nThe grounds have a bakery, cistern, and stable block. Tall, Spanish bayonet trees are on the property. An adjacent church has a unique decorative stone front facade.\n\nSet behind a white picket fence, Wallblake is now a private house, and living quarters to the priest from St Gerard's Roman Catholic Church. However, tours can be arranged. However, it also serves as a museum annex, as well as a venue for art shows, flower shops and marriage receptions. The International Airport in The Valley, just to the south of the house was also named as Wallblake Airport, now renamed as Clayton J. Lloyd International Airport.\n\n"}
{"id": "35640337", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35640337", "title": "Yang Kuan", "text": "Yang Kuan\n\nYang Kuan (1914 − September 1, 2005) was a Chinese historian specializing in pre-Qin Dynasty Chinese history. He is considered an authority of the Warring States period, and his \"History of the Warring States\", first published in 1955, remains the most authoritative treatment of the subject.\n\nYang Kuan was born in Qingpu County, Jiangsu Province (now Qingpu District of Shanghai) in 1914. He attended the prestigious Suzhou High School, whose teachers included famous scholars Lü Shuxiang and Ch'ien Mu, one of the greatest historians of modern China.\n\nAfter high school Yang attended Kwang Hua University in Shanghai − a predecessor of today's East China Normal University − and graduated in 1936 with a degree in Chinese. At Kwang Hua he also studied history under the prominent historian Lü Simian.\n\nYang Kuan gained fame at a young age. In 1933, aged 19, he published his first essay \"Probing the Legend of Pangu\". In 1939, just three years after graduating from college, Yang was invited by Gu Jiegang, founder of the Doubting Antiquity School, to contribute to Gu's influential compilation \"Debates on Ancient History\" (古史辨). In 1941, Yang's book-size \"Introduction to China's High Antiquity\" was published as part of the seventh and last volume of the \"Debates on Ancient History\".\n\nYang is generally considered a member of the Doubting Antiquity School, as he argued that the pre-Xia Dynasty history recorded in ancient texts was \"historization\" of prehistoric mythology, a position that is widely accepted by today's historians. However, he disagreed with Gu Jiegang and Kang Youwei's view that ancient scholars such as Confucius and Liu Xin deliberately introduced falsehoods into historical texts, and held the opinion that it was a long process of natural evolution of ancient mythology. Gu later changed his position and accepted Yang's view. Yang further differed from Gu in that he also believed that the extant history of the Xia Dynasty was pure mythology.\n\nIn 1946 Yang Kuan was appointed curator of Shanghai Museum, a position he continued to hold after the Communist People's Republic of China replaced the Republic of China in 1949. In 1953 he joined the faculty of Shanghai's Fudan University as a history professor. In 1960 he was made the deputy head of the history department of the Shanghai Academy of Social Sciences, but returned to Fudan University in 1970.\n\nYang Kuan published his most influential work, \"History of the Warring States\", in 1955. In 1980, a greatly expanded second edition was completed, with major revisions based on new archaeological discoveries made during the intervening decades. He made further revisions in the third edition of 1985. This work is widely considered the most authoritative treatment of the subject, and was included in the official \"China Chronology Series\" (中国断代史系列). Another work by Yang, \"History of the Western Zhou\", was also included in the series. In total Yang Kuan published more than a dozen books and 225 essays.\n\nIn 1984 Yang Kuan moved to the United States, settling in Miami, Florida. He continued to write in the US, and published an autobiography. He died in Miami on September 1, 2005, aged 91.\n"}
{"id": "53763484", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53763484", "title": "Yanis Kordatos", "text": "Yanis Kordatos\n\nYanis Kordatos (; 1 February 1891-1961) was a Greek Marxist historian who wrote over twenty historical works dealing with Ancient, Byzantine, and Modern Greek history. Some of his most notable books include \"A History of Greek Literature from 1453-1961\" (1962), \"The Last Days of the Byzantine Empire\" (1975), \"A History of Ancient Greek Philosophy\" (1946, 1975), \"The Commune of Thessalonica (Salonika), 1342-1349\" (1975), and \"The Social Meaning of the Greek War of Independence of 1821\" (1972). He is considered the father of Greek Marxist historiography. \n\nKordatos was born on February 1, 1891 in Zagora, Greece. His father Alexandros, was a merchant. He studied at Smyrna (Izmir)'s Graeco-German Lyceum in 1907. In 1908, he studied at the Franco-Hellenic Lyceum in Constantinople (Istanbul). Kordatos also studied Law at the University of Athens in 1911.\n\nKordatos was a member of the Central Committee of the Socialist Labour Party of Greece (SEKE), which later became the Socialist Labour Party of Greece-Communist (SEKE-K). In 1924, it was renamed the Communist Party of Greece (KKE).\n"}
{"id": "39459433", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39459433", "title": "Young Marx", "text": "Young Marx\n\nSome theorists consider Karl Marx's thought to be divided into a \"young\" period and a \"mature\" one. There is disagreement to when Marx's thought began to mature and the problem of the idea of a \"Young Marx\" is the problem of tracking the development of Marx's works and of its possible unity. The problem thus centres on Marx's transition from philosophy to economics, which has been considered by orthodox Marxism as a progressive change towards scientific socialism. However, this positivist reading has been challenged by Marxist theorists as well as members of the New Left. They pointed out the humanist side in Marx's work and how he in his early writings focused on liberation from wage slavery and freedom from alienation, that they claimed was a forgotten element of Marx's writings and central to understanding his later work.\n\nÉtienne Balibar argues that Marx's works cannot be divided into \"economic works\" (\"Das Kapital\"), \"philosophical works\" and \"historical works\" (\"The Eighteenth Brumaire of Louis Napoleon\" or the 1871 \"The Civil War in France\"). Marx's philosophy is inextricably linked to his critique of political economy and to his historical interventions in the workers' movement, such as the 1875 \"Critique of the Gotha Program\": the problematic is also related to Marx's rupture with university and its teachings concerning German idealism and his encounter with the proletariat, leading him to write along with Friedrich Engels \"The Communist Manifesto\" a year before the Revolutions of 1848. Marxism's philosophical roots were commonly explained (for example by Vladimir Lenin) as derived from three sources: English political economy; French utopian socialism, republicanism and radicalism; and German idealist philosophy. Although this \"three sources\" model is an oversimplification, it still has some measure of truth.\n\nThe Young Marx is usually still considered part of humanist \"bourgeois\" philosophy, which Marx later criticized along with German idealism on behalf of \"social relations\" which primed over individual consciousness, a product of ideology according to him. Marxist humanists stressed the humanistic philosophical foundations of Marx's thought by focusing on the \"Economic and Philosophical Manuscripts of 1844\" (first published in 1932 and largely suppressed in the Soviet Union until the post-Stalinist \"Thaw\"). Marx there expounds his theory of alienation, adapted from Ludwig Feuerbach's \"The Essence of Christianity\" (1841).\n\nLouis Althusser opposed himself to this movement, arguing that the young Marx could not be read while presupposing \"fully-developed Marxism\". He thus posed the philosophical problem of Marx's evolution as the question of how may one conceive the transformation of Marx's thought without adopting an idealist perspective which would mark a return to Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel's spiritualist dialectics and its teleological perspective (the hen is in the egg as mature Marx would be in the young Marx, the \"contents\" of his dialectical materialist philosophy expressed in his earlier works under the \"words\" of Feuerbach's idealism).\n\nVladimir Lenin claimed Marx's first mature work as \"The Poverty of Philosophy\" (1847) in his own work \"State and Revolution\" (1917). Marxist philosopher Louis Althusser, who was a champion of this young–mature dichotomy in his criticisms of Marxist humanism (Praxis School, John Lewis and the like) and existential Marxism, claimed in the 1960s that \"The German Ideology\" (written in 1845), in which Marx criticized Bruno Bauer, Max Stirner and other Young Hegelians, marked the break with this young Marx. Furthermore, the Trotskyist Ernest Mandel in his \"The Place of Marxism in History\" (1986) also broke Marx's intellectual development into several different stages. Althusser presented, in his \"For Marx\" (1965), a number of other opinions: \n\nLouis Althusser popularized the conception of an \"epistemological break\" between the Young Marx and the mature Marx, that is the point where Marx broke with ideology to enter the domain of science, a point generally considered to consist in his break with Ludwig Feuerbach. However, the epistemological break, a concept which Althusser drew out of Gaston Bachelard, is not to be conceived as a chronological point, but as a \"process\", thus making the question of the distinction between a \"Young Marx\" and a \"mature Marx\" a problematic one. \n\nAlthusser noted that the interest in the Young Marx, that is in the \"1844 Manuscripts\" and other early works, was no longer a matter of interest only for Western Marxism, e.g. Palmiro Togliatti, but also of Soviet studies, first of all, that the very discussion of early Marx carries political tones as the Soviet Union's attitude to the subject is not very approving. He also noted that as Jahn had noted that \"it was not Marxists who opened the debate on Marx's Early Works\", indicating the political stakes surrounding it: \"For this attack surprised Marxists on their own ground: that of Marx\". Althusser then criticizes the Marxist response to this attack: To discomfit those who set up against Marx his own youth, the opposite position is resolutely taken up: Marx is reconciled with his youth—\"Capital\" is no longer read as \"On the Jewish Question\", \"On the Jewish Question\" is read as \"Capital\" ; the shadow of the young Marx is no longer projected on to Marx, but that of Marx on to the young Marx; and a pseudo-theory of the history of philosophy in the 'future anterior' is erected to justify this counter-position, without realizing that this pseudo-theory is quite simply Hegelian. A devout fear of a blow to Marx's \"integrity\" inspires as its reflex a resolute acceptance of \"the whole of Marx\": Marx is declared to be a whole, ' \"the young Marx is part of Marxism\" 'as if we risked losing \"the whole of Marx\" if we were to submit his youth to the radical critique of history, not \"the history he was going to live\", but \"the history he did live\", not an immediate history, but the reflected history for which, in his maturity, he gave us, not the ' \"truth\" ' in the Hegelian sense, but the principles of its scientific understanding.\n\nThereby, Althusser warns against any attempts at reading in a teleological way Marx, that is in claiming that the mature Marx was already in the young Marx and necessarily derived from him: Capital is an \"ethical\" theory, the silent philosophy of which is openly spoken in Marx's Early Works. Thus, reduced to two propositions, is the thesis which has had such extraordinary success. And not only in France and in Italy, but also, as these articles from abroad show, in contemporary Germany and Poland. Philosophers, ideologues, theologians have all launched into a gigantic enterprise of criticism and \"conversion\": let Marx be restored to his source, and let him admit at last that in him, the mature man is merely the young man in disguise. Or if he stubbornly insists on his age, let him admit the sins of his maturity, let him recognize that he sacrificed philosophy to economics, ethics to science, man to history. Let him consent to this or refuse it, his truth, everything that will survive him, everything which helps the men that we are to live and think, is contained in these few Early Works. So these good critics leave us with but a single choice: we must admit that \"Capital\" (and 'mature Marxism' in general) is \"either an expression of the Young Marx's philosophy, or its betrayal\". In either case, the established interpretation must be totally revised and we must return to the Young Marx, the Marx through whom spoke the Truth. This is the \"location\" of the discussion: the Young Marx. Really \"at stake\" in it: Marxism. The \"terms of the discussion\" : whether the Young Marx was already and wholly Marx.\n\nAlthusser then criticizes the \"eclectic\" reading of Marx's early works, which instead of reading the text as a \"whole\", discompose it in various \"elements\" which it then judges as either \"materialist\" or \"idealist\" elements. Marx should not be read in a teleological perspective, which would be a return to Hegel's idealist philosophy of history, thus he writes: From the Hegelian viewpoint, Early Works are as inevitable and as impossible as the singular object displayed by Jarry: \"the skull of the child Voltaire\". They are as inevitable as all beginnings. They are impossible because \"it is impossible to choose one's beginnings\". Marx did not choose to be born to the thought German history had concentrated in its university education, nor to think its ideological world. He grew up in this world, in it he learned to live and move, with it he 'settled accounts', from it he liberated himself. I shall return to \"the necessity and contingency of this beginning\" later. The fact is that there was a \"beginning\", and that to work out the history of Marx's particular thoughts their movement must be grasped at the precise instant when that concrete individual the Young Marx emerged into the \"thought world\" of his own time, to \"think in it\" in his turn, and to enter into the exchange and debate with the thoughts of his time which was to be his whole life as an ideologue. At this level of the exchanges and conflicts that are the very substance of the \"texts\" in which his living thoughts have come down to us, it is as if the authors of these thoughts were themselves \"absent\". The concrete individual who expresses himself in his thoughts and his writings is absent, so is the actual history expressed in the existing ideological field. As the author effaces himself in the presence of his published thoughts, reducing himself to their rigour, so concrete history effaces itself in the presence of its ideological themes, reducing itself to their system. This double absence will also have to be put to the test. But for the moment, everything is in play between the rigour of a single thought and the thematic system of an ideological field. Their relation is this \"beginning\" and \"this\" beginning has no end. This is the relationship that has to be thought: the relation between the (internal) unity of a single thought (at each moment of its development) and the existing ideological field (at each moment of its development). But if this relationship is to be thought, so, in the same movement, must its terms.\n\nMarxist humanists do not argue that Marx's thought never developed, but criticise the dichotomy presented young and mature as being too rigid and not recognising the continuity in Marx's development. One piece of evidence used by Marxist humanists to highlight the importance of Marx's early works is that Marx himself in 1851 tried to have two volumes of his early writings published. \n\nFrançois Châtelet denied the existence of a rupture in 1857 between the young Marx and a mature Marx who would have discarded his errors and assume \"mastery of his thought\". Instead, he considered that the tensions in his thought continued on until his death in 1883. This thesis, concentrating itself on the tensions in Marx's thought instead of an alleged maturity of his thought, would also be upheld by Étienne Balibar (1993). \n\nOthers contended that Althusser's \"epistemological break\" between \"The Economic-Philosophical Manuscripts\" (1844) and \"The German Ideology\" (1845), in which some new concepts are forged, is a bit too abrupt, although almost no one contests the radical shifts. In fact, though Althusser steadfastly held onto the claim of its existence, he later asserted that the turning point's occurrence around 1845 was not so clearly defined as traces of humanism, historicism and Hegelianism were to be found in \"Capital\". He even went so far as to state that only Marx's \"Critique of the Gotha Programme\" and some notes on a book by Adolph Wagner were fully free from humanist ideology. In fact, Althusser considered the epistemological break to be a process instead of a clearly defined event, the product of the incessant struggle against ideology as Althusser believed in the existence of class struggle in theory itself. This struggle marked the division point between those philosophers who contented themselves with providing various ideological \"interpretations\" of the world and those who endeavoured to \"transform\" the world as Marx had put it in his \"Theses on Feuerbach\" (1845).\n\nFurthermore, other important shifts in Marx's thought have been highlighted (e.g. Étienne Balibar), in particular following the failure of the 1848 revolutions, in particular in France with Louis-Napoleon Bonaparte's December 2, 1851 coup d'état and then after the crush of the 1871 Paris Commune. This would lead him to substitute in the first chapter of \"Das Kapital\" (1867) his theory of commodity fetishism for the theory of alienation expounded in the \"1844 Manuscripts\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27260121", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27260121", "title": "Zagreb City Museum", "text": "Zagreb City Museum\n\nZagreb City Museum or Museum of the City of Zagreb () located in 20 Opatička Street, was established in 1907 by the Association of the Brethren of the Croatian Dragon (). \n\nIt is located in a restored monumental complex (12th-century Popov toranj, the Observatory, 17th-century Zakmardi Granary) of the former Convent of the Poor Clares, of 1650. \n\nThe Museum deals with topics from the cultural, artistic, economic and political history of the city spanning from the prehistory, Roman finds to the modern period. The holdings comprise 75,000 items arranged systematically in a combined chronological and thematic approach into collections of artistic and mundane objects characteristic of the city and its history. It consists of a number paintings, maps, city views, furniture, flags, military uniforms and coats of arms.\n"}
{"id": "1186069", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1186069", "title": "Ōan", "text": "Ōan\n\n, also romanized as Ō-an, was a Japanese era name (年号, \"nengō\", lit. year name) of the Northern Court during the Era of Northern and Southern Courts after \"Jōji\" and before \"Eiwa.\" This period spanned the years from February 1368 through February 1375. The emperors in Kyoto were and The Southern Court rival in Yoshino during this time-frame was .\n\nDuring the Meiji period, an Imperial decree dated March 3, 1911 established that the legitimate reigning monarchs of this period were the direct descendants of Emperor Go-Daigo through Emperor Go-Murakami, whose had been established in exile in Yoshino, near Nara.\n\nUntil the end of the Edo period, the militarily superior pretender-Emperors supported by the Ashikaga shogunate had been mistakenly incorporated in Imperial chronologies despite the undisputed fact that the Imperial Regalia were not in their possession.\n\nThis illegitimate had been established in Kyoto by Ashikaga Takauji.\n\n\nIn this time frame, Shōhei (1346–1370), Kentoku (1370–1372) and Bunchū (1372–1375) were Southern Court equivalent \"nengō.\"\n\n\n\n"}
