{"id": "5465644", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5465644", "title": "Agricultural Information Management Standards", "text": "Agricultural Information Management Standards\n\nAgricultural Information Management Standards, abbreviated to AIMS is a space for accessing and discussing agricultural information management standards, tools and methodologies connecting information workers worldwide to build a global community of practice. Information management standards, tools and good practices can be found on AIMS:\n\n\nAIMS is primarily intended for information workers—librarians, information managers, software developers—but is also of interest to those who are simply passionate about knowledge and information sharing. The success of AIMS depends upon its communities reaching a critical mass to show that the investment in interoperability standards has a return.\n\nAIMS holds 9 communities of practice. They are intended to discuss and share information about the different ongoing initiatives under the AIMS umbrella. AIMS supports collaboration through forums and blogs amongst institutions and individuals that wish to share expertise on how to use tools, standards and methodologies. Moreover, news and events are published on AIMS as part of its ‘one-stop” access to interoperability and reusability of information resources. The AIMS communities are aimed at the global agricultural community, including information providers, from research institutes, academic institutions, educational and extension institutions and also the private sector.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37560382", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37560382", "title": "Aleksandr Filippov (philosopher)", "text": "Aleksandr Filippov (philosopher)\n\nAleksandr Pavlovich Filippov (born 1891) was a Russian philosopher. \n\nFilippov completed his training for the law at the University of Kharkov in 1913. He then devoted four years to the study of natural sciences at that university. He held a research fellowship in European culture at the university and worked as a scientific fellow of the Ukrainian Academy of Sciences. \n\nIn 1942 Filippov was appointed Professor of Philosophy at the University of Kharkov. A year later he became Professor of Sociology at Charles University in Prague. From 1945 to 1952 he lived in Munich. There, in addition to working as a consultant for the Harvard University Refugee Interview Project he was chairman of the editorial committee of the Institute for the Study of the History and Institutions of the USSR. \n\nFilippov published extensively on psychology, philosophy and Bolshevik theory and practice.\n\nPhilipov, Alexander, \"Logic and Dialectic in the Soviet Union\", New York: Research Program on the USSR, 1952 (with a foreword by Ernest Nagel)\n"}
{"id": "48669157", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48669157", "title": "Anil Gupta (philosopher)", "text": "Anil Gupta (philosopher)\n\nAnil K. Gupta (; born 1949) is an Indian-American philosopher who works primarily in logic, philosophy of language, metaphysics, and epistemology. Gupta is the Alan Ross Anderson Distinguished Professor of Philosophy at the University of Pittsburgh. He is also a Fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences.\n\nGupta earned his B.Sc. with first class honours from the University of London in 1969. He then attended the University of Pittsburgh where he received his M.A. (1973) and Ph.D. (1977).\nGupta has taught at several universities: McGill University (1975-1982), University of Illinois at Chicago (1982-1989), Indiana University (1989-2000). In 2001 Gupta joined the Department of Philosophy at the University of Pittsburgh where he served as Distinguished Professor of Philosophy and, since 2013, as Alan Ross Anderson Chair.\n\nGupta developed an early version of the revision theory of truth. Later he generalized this to a theory of circular and interdependent definitions. This work was further developed, resulting in the book, \"The Revision Theory of Truth\", co-written with Nuel Belnap.\n\nThe revision theory is a semantic theory of truth that combines an unrestricted truth predicate with classical logic.\nRevision theory takes truth to be a circular concept, defined by the Tarski biconditionals,\nand interprets it in a new way. Rather than interpret the truth predicate via a single extension, as is done with non-circular predicates, revision theory interprets it via a revision process. The revision process is a collection of revision sequences that result when arbitrary hypotheses concerning the interpretation of truth are revised using a rule provided by the Tarski biconditionals. In the revision process, problematic sentences such as the Liar (“this very sentence is not true”) do not settle on a definite truth value. Remarkably, however, ordinary unproblematic sentences do receive a definite truth value. If problematic types of cross-reference are eliminated from the language, then the revision process converges to a fixed point.\n\nGupta has applied revision theory to rational choice in game theory, building on the work of André Chapuis.\n\nGupta has recently applied the informal ideas of revision theory to problems arising in the philosophy of perception.\n\nIn \"Empiricism and Experience\", Gupta proposes a novel empiricist account of the logical relation between perceptual experience and knowledge.\n\nThe problem Gupta addresses is that of explaining the role of experience in making our views and, in particular, perceptual judgments rational. Gupta’s proposal is that the given in experience is hypothetical. Rather than providing perceptual judgments with categorical rationality, experience confers on these judgments a conditional rationality. A perceptual experience, according to Gupta, makes a subject’s judgment rational if the subject’s antecedent view is rational. An antecedent view is the collection of beliefs, conceptions, and concepts that the subject of an experience brings to bear on the experience.\n\nGupta uses the notion of the hypothetical given to build a reformed empiricism. He argues that this empiricism has significant advantages over the traditional versions of the view. Among other features, Gupta’s empiricism does not require the acceptance of an anti-realism about commonsense and theoretical objects, and it does not rely on the analytic-synthetic distinction to do any substantive work. Finally, Gupta argues that his reformed empiricism incorporates plausible components of both foundationalism and coherentism.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4247621", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4247621", "title": "Arborescent", "text": "Arborescent\n\nArborescent () is a term used by the French thinkers Deleuze and Guattari to characterize thinking marked by insistence on totalizing principles, binarism, and dualism. The term, first used in \"A Thousand Plateaus\" (1980) where it was opposed to the rhizome, comes from the way genealogy trees are drawn: unidirectional progress, with no possible retroactivity and continuous binary cuts (thus enforcing a dualist metaphysical conception, criticized by Deleuze). Rhizomes, on the contrary, mark a horizontal and non-hierarchical conception, where anything may be linked to anything else, with no respect whatsoever for specific species: rhizomes are heterogeneous links between things that have nothing to do between themselves (for example, Deleuze and Guattari linked together desire and machines to create the - most surprising - concept of desiring machines). Horizontal gene transfer is also an example of rhizomes, opposed to the arborescent evolutionism theory. Deleuze also criticizes the Chomsky hierarchy of formal languages, which he considers a perfect example of arborescent dualistic theory.\n"}
{"id": "49970355", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49970355", "title": "Avary William Holmes Forbes", "text": "Avary William Holmes Forbes\n\nAvary William Holmes Forbes (1853–1938) was a religious philosopher, teacher, and writer.\n\nForbes received his MA from Trinity College, Dublin, and then studied law at Lincoln's Inn in London. He joined the Council of the interdenominational All Nations Missionary Union, founded by F. B. Meyer along with the All Nations Bible College. Forbes lectured on church history and theological topics. \n\nHe came into conflict over one of the articles in the \"Doctrinal Basis\" all teachers were required to sign: \"We believe in the eternal punishment of those who have ignored or rejected the offer of salvation\". In 1936, the same year one of his pamphlets, \"The Last Enemy\" appeared, he resigned; in \"The Last Enemy\", he denounced the \"eternal torment\" doctrine, saying it was \"derogatory to God’s character\" because it posited \"infinite torture for finite sin\". His interpretation had been reviewed by theologians including Samuel H. Wilkinson; Wilkinson said Forbes's arguments were \"in harmony with the 'Supreme Authority'\".\n\nHe is the author of \"The Science of Beauty: An Analytical Inquiry Into the Laws of Æsthetics\" (1881), summarized thus: \"A revival of physiognomy as evolutionary utilitarianism; Forbes lays it down as a law that ugliness consists of subjective disgust and an objective 'suggestion of inutility'(157)\".\n"}
{"id": "54773235", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54773235", "title": "Bogusław Wolniewicz", "text": "Bogusław Wolniewicz\n\nBogusław Wolniewicz (born September 22, 1927, Toruń, died August 4, 2017, Warsaw) – Polish philosopher, logician, professor of humanities, creator of situational ontology, translator and commentator of Ludwig Wittgenstein, publicist mostly affiliated with the Radio Maryja community, known for his anti-semitic views.\n\nHe started his education in 1934 in a Polish primary school. The war didn’t interrupt his education, as no later than November 1939 he was already a student at a German primary school for Poles with a significantly lowered level of education. In 1941 he started working at Hermann Klechowitz's construction company while also attending a Berufsschule (trade school) affiliated with that company. From 1945 he studied at Queen Jadwiga High School, passing his final exams in 1947.\n\nIn the years 1947–1951 he studied at the Nicolaus Copernicus University. Among his teachers were Tadeusz Czeżowski, Henryk Elzenberg, Tadeusz Szczurkiewicz and Kazimierz Sośnicki. In 1951 he got his master's degree in philosophy, his thesis \"Criticism of subjective idealism in W. I. Lenin’s “Materialism and Empirio-criticism”\" supervised by Czeżowski. Then he worked as a deputy assistant, and later as an assistant at the Department of Logic at the Nicolaus Copernicus University. In 1953 (the height of Stalinism), due to having his freedom of doing philosophical research limited, he quit his academic career, getting a job at the W-8 department of the Labor Union Association (Poznań), the Institute of Hydraulic Engineering at the Polish Academy of Sciences (Gdańsk), the Voivodeship Council of Trade Unions and at one of the State Agricultural Farms.\n\nIn 1956 he started working at the Department of Philosophy at the Pedagogical University in Gdansk. In 1962 he became a doctor of humanities, his dissertation \"Semantics of plain language in Wittgenstein’s new philosophy\"written under supervision of prof. Czeżowski and reviewed by Izydora Dąmbska and Henryk Elzenberg.\n\nIn 1963, on the initiative of Adam Schaff, he was transferred to the Department of Philosophy at the University of Warsaw. In 1967 he became a docent of humanities with specialization in philosophy, his dissertation \"Study of Wittgenstein’s philosophy\", reviewed by Tadeusz Kotarbiński, Adam Schaff, Roman Suszko and Peter Geach. From 1968, he worked as a full-time docent at the Department of Philosophy at the University of Warsaw. From 1969, he was a supervisor of the Subdivision of Philosophy, quitting two years later.\n\nSince late 1960s, he started becoming famous abroad. In 1967, at the University of Chicago (as a \"visiting associate professor\") he gave a trimester lecture on ontology of objects and facts. The same year, he gave a talk at the University of Boston and Cornell University. In 1968 he was one of the four lecturer at the Colloquium of the International Wittgenstein Congress in Vienna. In 1970 he gave a talk at the University of Moscow. In 1972 at the Temple University in Philadelphia, as a visiting professor, he gave a semester lecture on social philosophy and a seminar on Wittgenstein's philosophy. In 1975 he gave talks at the University of Cambridge and the University of Leeds on language and codes as well as the Hume's law, at the invitation of the dean of the Faculty of Philosophy at the University of Cambridge.\n\nIn 1989 he switched from the Institute of Philosophy to the Institute of Religious Philosophy, where he became a supervisor two years later. He became a professor in 1990. He ran the Institute of Religious Philosophy until 1998.\n\nIn 1997 he retired, but he continued giving lectures – however, in 1998 The Scientific Council of the Department of Philosophy and Sociology at the University of Warsaw didn’t extend his job contract. Prof. Wolniewicz cited the reason behind it to be a disapproval of a decision to lower teaching standards. He devoted himself to scientific research ever since. During the first semester of the 2008/2009 academic year he returned to the Institute of Philosophy at the University of Warsaw and gave a guest monograph lecture, as a former professor of the university.\n\nIn 1955 he applied for membership at the Polish United Workers' Party, to which he was accepted in 1956. He held the position of the 1st secretary of the Polish United Workers' Party's Higher Education Committee at the Pedagogical University in Gdansk. He remained a member of the Polish United Workers' Party (despite his aversion to Gierek's government) until 1981. Until 1998, he would give lectures at the Department of Philosophy and Sociology at the University of Warsaw.\n\nIn the late 1990s he got involved with communities affiliated with Radio Maryja, where he would have his commentaries broadcast on public, cultural and political events. He also guest-starred on Telewizja Trwam. His writings were also published by „Nasz Dziennik”, „Najwyższy Czas!” and „Moja Rodzina”.\n\nIn 2004 he criticized the conditions of accepting Poland into European Union. During the 2005 parliamentary election he unsuccessfully stood as a candidate to Sejm under Janusz Korwin-Mikke Platform in an electoral district outside of Warsaw.\n\nIn 2006, together with Mieczysław Krąpiec and Czesław Bartnik, he initiated the Independent Civil Group for the Ethics of Media, the goal of which was to „honestly educate the public opinion in the country and around the world on all the doings in media and around it that pose threat to either common decency or freedom of public discussion”.\n\nLater into 2007 he got involved in an event initiated by Jerzy Robert Nowak, a professor at the University of Social and Medial Culture against the book \"\" by Jan Tomasz Gross that describes the Polish-Jewish relations during the World War Two. Wolniewicz participated in several meetings where he heavily criticized Gross’ book.\n\nIn 2009 he entered The Committee for Defense of the Good Name of Poland and Poles initiated by Jerzy Robert Nowak. Since 2014 he's been preparing lectures on things like Islam, ethics and philosophy for the \"Rational Voice\" channel on YouTube.\n\nHe specialized in philosophy of religion and modern philosophy. He distanced himself from the main philosophical trends of the 20th century and accepted theses by „great thinkers”, like: Aristotle, Leibniz, Hume, Kant and especially Wittgenstein. Critical towards Freudianism, phenomenology, post-modernism and religious fundamentalism, and since 1990s also Marxism, he represented an analytical and metaphysical approach. The main assumptions of his beliefs were axiological absolutism in the rationalist version and metaphysical pessimism in looking at man and society.\n\nHe believed that philosophy was not science, but it wasn’t cognitively idle either and did have characteristics of knowledge – that's because not every type of knowledge is of scientific nature, just like history or a legal case are not science either. Philosophy is an attempt to rationally capture those issues where the knowledge of scientific type does not apply. It fills the gaps in knowledge for the branches that science hadn’t covered in a particular period of history, but also due to the changes to conditions of social life its goals will never become exhausted. Quite the opposite, the role of philosophy keeps growing in the commotion of modern social life.\n\nPhilosophy has a nature of commonsense cognition: it articulates the theses that every person could get to using common sense while also pondering deep enough in the process. Therefore, there is nothing exploratory about it, there are only obvious things, but they’re also subjected to a logical order. Logic brings philosophy closer to science, but it's not just about providing philosophy with formal tools, but about providing philosophy with tools for creating clear thoughts, which in turn makes it possible to tell truth from lie in the entire cognition of non-scientific nature.\n\nAlthough the need for philosophy keeps rising in today's world, the modern state of philosophical culture is bad. There's a characteristic contract between the opulence of philosophical literature and scarcity of ideas – Wolniewicz referred to this philosophical literature that is devoid of substantial ideas as „philosophical wastepaper”. He put it apart from „philosophical literature”, which included „antiquarian philosophy”, which examines the evolution of ideas and relations between them, combined with lack of interest in the actual value of the discussed views, and the „substantive philosophy”, which attempts to cast light upon actual problems of the era in its aim for the truth. However, the academic philosophy isn’t the only possible „substantive philosophy”, the essayistic and literary creativity is equally important here, as it helps overcome the antiquarism that dominates the academic philosophy.\n\nThe substantive philosophy also divides here into two opposing trends: hermeneutical philosophy and analytical philosophy. According to the hermeneutical philosophy, the goal of philosophy is to reveal the purpose of existence and of all things, the mean of which is the ability to deeply immerse oneself in the old time philosophy and eloquence that makes it possible to bring out the same feelings in people – Wolniewicz was critical towards the „hermeneutic philosophy”, considering it to be a type of new gnosis, a form of extreme irrationalism. In opposition to the hermeneutic philosophy stands analytical philosophy, which recognized existence of objective truth and the ability of human mind to discover it. The division between rationalism (today represented by the analytical philosophy) and irrationalism (today represented by the hermeneutic philosophy) was crossed by Wolniewicz with the division of philosophy into naturalism, which sees a part of nature in the man, and the whole of existence in the nature, and antinaturalism (transcendentalism), which proposes existence of supernatural reality. One example of rationalistic naturalism could be positivism, of antinaturalistic rationalism the early Wittgenstein's philosophy, of the naturalist rationalism the New Age and freudism, antinaturalist irrationalism – phenomenology and existentialism. Wolniewicz himself considered himself to be a rationalist and antinaturalist.\n\nThe theological ideas in Wolniewicz's thinking are mostly contained in his article \"Criticism of theodicy in Bayle (Philosophy and values II)\". This article contains dissent with Pierre Bayle's views on the topic of theodicy. The classical theodicy said that God's goodness and omnipotence are possible to coexist, since evil is not God's invention but man's – the man on the other hand, in order to do good, has to be free, and since he's free, he has to be able to do evil as well. Bayle reasoned against the classic theodicy by saying that although freedom implies the ability to do evil, it doesn’t imply its necessity, therefore evil can be avoided even when assuming human freedom.\n\nWhen searching for arguments that could refute the legitimacy of Bayle's argumentation, Wolniewicz referred himself to non-standard modal concepts borrowed from Megarian logic. Its representative, Diodorus Cronus presented prospective understanding of abilities, defining what's possible as what is or will be. Such understanding of ability is still not enough to oppose Bayle's argumentation against theodicy in line with theology, as it accepts the concept that those who are saved will sin in future, too – therefore Wolniewicz constructed a slightly different definition of ability that he calls „pseudo-Diodoric”. According to that definition, because something can happen it means that something similar has already happened or will happen in the future. With such definition of ability, the classic theodicy is logically sound and not subject to the criticism submitted by Bayle.\n\nIn the field of axiology, Wolniewicz continued the work of Henryk Elzenberg, yet despite absorbing many of his fundamental ideas, he transformed them and rephrased them. He tried to transform Elzenberg's axiology in the spirit of objectivism and rationalism. Like Elzenberg, he divided the entire axiology into the formal and substantive one, covering the former using the concept apparatus of semantics of possible worlds and situational ontology. Formal axiology formulates hypothetical judgments regarding values. It answers the questions of what values are (logic and metaphysics of values), how to recognize them (epistemology of values) and what impact they have on people (anthropology of values). Substantive axiology uses categoric judgments in which it assigns specific values to specific objects.\n\nWhile aiming for a simplicity of the system, Wolniewicz assigned one ontic category to all values – out of the most often highlighted ontic categories of objects (thing, thing's state, process, event, trait, relation) values are (possible) states of things.\n\nBogusław Wolniewicz believed that there is no Providence and that people are left on their own. He didn’t believe in life after death, either. He didn’t deny existence of „supreme intelligence”, though. In many matters he disagreed with the Church, but he respected it and believed it (and Christianity as a whole) to be one of the foundations of the western civilization [7] .\n\nHis philosophy of law is mostly a reflection, related to the philosophy of culture, on the place of law in the European civilization, the result of which are his views on capital punishment. According to Wolniewcz, the Roman law is the third foundation of the European civilization, after the scientific view of the world and the Christian religion. The foundation of the Roman law, on the other hand, is the principle of justice formulated by Cicero and Ulpian \"cuique suum tribuere\" („may all get their due”). In this rule, justice isn’t formulated in a utilitarian way, which is as a group of benefits that can be achieved by following some rules, but in an objective one, as it refers to the internal moral order. A crime is a violation of such order, whereas punishment is a restoration of it. Due to objectivity of the moral order of the world, a just punishment can only depend on the severity of guilt: it cannot depend on any external benefits that could alternatively be referred to from increasing or lowering the punishment in a way that is inadequate to the guilt. Therefore, punishment is not some form of vengeance that society imposes on the criminal, as revenge only magnifies the harm that was done – on the other hand, it's a rightful retaliation, that evens out said harm, but independently of particular benefits and losses that someone could potentially experience out of that.\n\nIn his view, concepts of punishment different from the one based on the Roman principle of justice appeared in (particularly harshly criticized by him) the Enlightenment culture. He distinguishes two such concepts here (similar to his own, defined as a retribution concept): preventive, which says that punishment is mostly a measure to prevent crimes and corrective, which says that the purpose of punishment is to upbring and rehabilitate. Both those concepts contradict the Roman principle of justice, as they assign utilitarian functions to punishment and reject the principle of strict adequacy between the guilt and the punishment that only depends on it. Therefore, the preventive and corrective concepts favor abolition of death penalty (\"abolitionism\"), the retribution concept, on the other hand, favors upholding it (\"rigorism\"). For abolitionists, the greatest value is human life, therefore it has to be protected at all costs, for a rigorist on the other hand, the greatest value is humanity, therefore actions that cross the borders of it have to be punished with death as only thing adequate to the guilt.\n\nWolniewicz believed that the objection to death penalty that is present so often these days is a result of a crisis of the European culture as a whole. The essence of law is a positive faith in correctness of the rules – the „living law” that beacons the society. The atrophy of this faith and the adversity to protecting the social order make law dead, a paper record devoid of actual meaning to people. The atrophy of awareness of law in society leads to atrophy of the will to fight evil, a doubt in the moral order and consequently, to the triumph of evil. He says that the most likely consequence of such state of affairs will be a birth of new totalitarianism.\n\nAmong Wolniewicz's direct students are his doctoral candidates – Zbigniew Musiał, Ulrich Schrade (died in 2009), Beata Witkowska-Maksimczuk; his graduate students – Agnieszka Maria Nogal, Paweł Okołowski, Klaudiusz Suczyński; participants of Wolniewicz's seminars of many years – Jan Zubelewicz, Jędrzej Stanisławek. These people continue and develop Wolniewicz's work and his style of doing philosophy.\n\nLeft under a significant influence of Wolniewicz were not only his closest students, but also plenty of key Polish philosophers and logicians. Among them was especially Roman Suszko, whose papers on logic were made under a significant influence of the philosophical interpretation of Wittgenstein made by Wolniewicz, especially included in the paper \"Things and facts\". The fruit of that inspiration is non-Frege logic, one of the key achievements of the post-war Polish logic. One student of Suszka and colleague of Wolniewicz was logician Mieczysław Omyła, who continued both logical and ontological work of Suszka and referenced Wolniewicz's situational ontology more than once. Situational ontology also inspires mathematical papers on conditionally distributive lattices by Jan Zygmunt and Jacek Hawranek. Wolniewicz's papers were also met with interest from philosophers and logicians abroad, as evidenced by multiple reviews of his English papers in „Mathematical Review”.\n\nHe also made many appearances in daily newspapers, on radio and TV. That way he leaves impact both with his views on theoretical philosophy, including reception of Wittgenstein in the Polish culture, as well as on the practical philosophy, including issues related to the current social and cultural matters.\n\nCriticism of Wolniewicz mostly revolves around his social, political and cultural beliefs. It mostly comes from proponents of political and cultural liberalism, as well as extreme-left groups. Also faced with criticism in a public discourse was Wolniewicz's expressive manner of speaking (like using such terms as „half-brain”, „neo-cannibalism” or „mengelism” when referring to his world-view opponents). Among philosophers, criticism of Wolniewicz, not just in specialized magazines but even daily press, came from, among others, Jacek Jadacki, Jacek Hołówka and Andrzej Bogusławski.\n\nBy a decision of president Aleksander Kwaśniewski on November 11, 1997, „for outstanding contribution to the Polish science”, he was awarded with an Officer's Cross of Polonia Restituta.\n\nSon of Henryk. Was a self-declared nonbeliever (identifying as „Roman catholic – nonbeliever”). He made it clear by specifying that he doesn’t believe in consciousness carrying on after death. He didn’t, however, deny existence of an intelligence supreme to the man.\n\nHe died on August 4, 2017, few weeks prior to his 90th birthday. On August 9, at the St. Andrzej Bobola church in Warsaw, a funeral service took place in honor of the professor, led by father Andrzej Spławski.\n\nHis brother, Lutosław Wolniewicz, is a professor of theoretical physics.\n\nAfter Bogusław Wolniewicz's appearance on January 31, 2009 on Radio Maryja, the Council of Media Ethics declared that his comments, contained anti-semitic views and violated „the basic ethical norms and Polish law”. He was reported to the prosecutor's office by the Open Poland association, citing encouraging hatred against other nationalities as the reason. No investigation was opened as there were no indications of committing a forbidden act. The explanation included a remark that the spoken words were of xenophobic nature, but they didn’t constitute encouraging hatred against other nationalities.\n\n"}
{"id": "9493682", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9493682", "title": "Boncompagno da Signa", "text": "Boncompagno da Signa\n\nBoncompagno da Signa (also \"Boncompagnus\" or \"Boncompagni\"; c. 1165/1175 – after 1240) was an Italian scholar, grammarian, historian, and philosopher.\n\nBorn in Signa, near Florence, between 1165 and 1175, he was a professor of rhetoric (\"ars dictaminis\") at the University of Bologna and then the University of Padua.\n\nIn the early thirteenth century, he was one of the first Western European authors to write in the vernacular, in his case Italian. He spent his career travelling between Ancona, Venice, and Bologna and died at Florence. He wrote a history of the Siege of Ancona, his only work of that kind, and works on chess. His love of elaborate practical jokes is described by Helen Waddell in \"The Wandering Scholars\" (1927).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31737665", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31737665", "title": "Collection of Swiss Law Sources", "text": "Collection of Swiss Law Sources\n\nThe Collection of Swiss Law Sources (\"Sammlung Schweizerischer Rechtsquellen\" in German; \"Collection des sources du droit suisse\" in French; \"Collana Fonti del diritto svizzero\" in Italian) is a collection of critical editions of historical legal documents (regarded as sources of law) created on Swiss territory from the early Middle Ages up to 1798.\n\nIt is edited by the Law Sources Foundation of the Swiss Lawyers\nSociety. The Law Sources Foundation was established in 1894 (then\ncalled Law Sources Commission) for this purpose.\n\nSince then, over 100 volumes (60,000+ pages) of source material (e.g.,\nstatutes, decrees, or regulations, but also administrative documents\nand court transcripts) from the early Middle Ages until early modern\ntimes have been published in the form of source editions.\n\nThe primary sources are manuscripts written in various regional\nhistorical forms of German, French, Italian, Rhaeto-Romance languages, and Latin, which were transcribed (using diplomatic transcription, annotated, and commented by the\neditors. The apparatuses are in modern German, French, or Italian.\nThe goal of the Collection is to make the sources available to\nhistorians of law, law researchers, historians in general, as well as\nto researchers from other fields and interested laypeople. Most of\nthe older volumes only have a single general index, containing\npersons, places, and general terms; newer volumes usually have a separate\nindex of persons and places.\n\nThe Collection is organized by modern cantons, with further\nsubdivisions by historical areas of jurisdiction, such as towns or bailiwicks.\n\nAt the moment, the Collection of Swiss Law Sources covers 17 of the 26\nSwiss cantons to different extents. The edition of the Collection is\nan ongoing project and further volumes are in preparation. The Foundation receives funding from the Swiss National Science Foundation, the Friedrich-Emil-Welti-Fonds, individual cantons, and other sources (e.g., municipalities).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54309780", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54309780", "title": "Daigo (Shōbōgenzō)", "text": "Daigo (Shōbōgenzō)\n\nDaigo (), also known in English translation as Great Realization, is a book of the Shōbōgenzō by the 13th century Sōtō Zen monk Eihei Dōgen. The book appears tenth in the 75 fascicle version of the Shōbōgenzō, and it is ordered 26th in the later chronological 95 fascicle \"\"Honzan\" edition\". It was presented to his students in the first month of 1242 at Kōshōhōrin-ji, the first monastery established by Dōgen, located in Kyoto. According to Gudō Nishijima, a modern Zen priest, the \"great realization\" to which Dōgen refers is not an intellectual idea, but rather a \"concrete realization of facts in reality\" or \"realization in real life\". Shohaku Okumura, another modern-day Zen teacher, writes that Dōgen equates the term \"daigo\" with the network of interdependence in which all beings in the universe exist rather than something that we lack and need to obtain. Given this, Okumura writes that Dōgen is encouraging us to, \"to realize great realization within this great realization, moment by moment; or perhaps it is better to say that great realization realizes great realization through our practice.\"\n"}
{"id": "2339577", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2339577", "title": "Evidence of common descent", "text": "Evidence of common descent\n\nEvidence of common descent of living organisms has been discovered by scientists researching in a variety of disciplines over many decades, demonstrating that all life on Earth comes from a single ancestor. This forms an important part of the evidence on which evolutionary theory rests, demonstrates that evolution does occur, and illustrates the processes that created Earth's biodiversity. It supports the modern evolutionary synthesis—the current scientific theory that explains how and why life changes over time. Evolutionary biologists document evidence of common descent, all the way back to the last universal common ancestor, by developing testable predictions, testing hypotheses, and constructing theories that illustrate and describe its causes.\n\nComparison of the DNA genetic sequences of organisms has revealed that organisms that are phylogenetically close have a higher degree of DNA sequence similarity than organisms that are phylogenetically distant. Genetic fragments such as pseudogenes, regions of DNA that are orthologous to a gene in a related organism, but are no longer active and appear to be undergoing a steady process of degeneration from cumulative mutations support common descent alongside the universal biochemical organization and molecular variance patterns found in all organisms. Additional genetic information conclusively supports the relatedness of life and has allowed scientists (since the discovery of DNA) to develop phylogenetic trees: a construction of organisms evolutionary relatedness. It has also led to the development of molecular clock techniques to date taxon divergence times and to calibrate these with the fossil record.\n\nFossils are important for estimating when various lineages developed in geologic time. As fossilization is an uncommon occurrence, usually requiring hard body parts and death near a site where sediments are being deposited, the fossil record only provides sparse and intermittent information about the evolution of life. Evidence of organisms prior to the development of hard body parts such as shells, bones and teeth is especially scarce, but exists in the form of ancient microfossils, as well as impressions of various soft-bodied organisms. The comparative study of the anatomy of groups of animals shows structural features that are fundamentally similar (homologous), demonstrating phylogenetic and ancestral relationships with other organisms, most especially when compared with fossils of ancient extinct organisms. Vestigial structures and comparisons in embryonic development are largely a contributing factor in anatomical resemblance in concordance with common descent. Since metabolic processes do not leave fossils, research into the evolution of the basic cellular processes is done largely by comparison of existing organisms' physiology and biochemistry. Many lineages diverged at different stages of development, so it is possible to determine when certain metabolic processes appeared by comparing the traits of the descendants of a common ancestor.\n\nEvidence from animal coloration was gathered by some of Darwin's contemporaries; camouflage, mimicry, and warning coloration are all readily explained by natural selection. Special cases like the seasonal changes in the plumage of the ptarmigan, camouflaging it against snow in winter and against brown moorland in summer provide compelling evidence that selection is at work. Further evidence comes from the field of biogeography because evolution with common descent provides the best and most thorough explanation for a variety of facts concerning the geographical distribution of plants and animals across the world. This is especially obvious in the field of insular biogeography. Combined with the well-established geological theory of plate tectonics, common descent provides a way to combine facts about the current distribution of species with evidence from the fossil record to provide a logically consistent explanation of how the distribution of living organisms has changed over time.\n\nThe development and spread of antibiotic resistant bacteria provides evidence that evolution due to natural selection is an ongoing process in the natural world. Natural selection is ubiquitous in all research pertaining to evolution, taking note of the fact that all of the following examples in each section of the article document the process. Alongside this are observed instances of the separation of populations of species into sets of new species (speciation). Speciation has been observed in the lab and in nature. Multiple forms of such have been described and documented as examples for individual modes of speciation. Furthermore, evidence of common descent extends from direct laboratory experimentation with the selective breeding of organisms—historically and currently—and other controlled experiments involving many of the topics in the article. This article summarizes the varying disciplines that provide the evidence for evolution and the common descent of all life on Earth, accompanied by numerous and specialized examples, indicating a compelling consilience of evidence.\nOne of the strongest evidences for common descent comes from gene sequences. Comparative sequence analysis examines the relationship between the DNA sequences of different species, producing several lines of evidence that confirm Darwin's original hypothesis of common descent. If the hypothesis of common descent is true, then species that share a common ancestor inherited that ancestor's DNA sequence, as well as mutations unique to that ancestor. More closely related species have a greater fraction of identical sequence and shared substitutions compared to more distantly related species.\n\nThe simplest and most powerful evidence is provided by phylogenetic reconstruction. Such reconstructions, especially when done using slowly evolving protein sequences, are often quite robust and can be used to reconstruct a great deal of the evolutionary history of modern organisms (and even in some instances of the evolutionary history of extinct organisms, such as the recovered gene sequences of mammoths or Neanderthals). These reconstructed phylogenies recapitulate the relationships established through morphological and biochemical studies. The most detailed reconstructions have been performed on the basis of the mitochondrial genomes shared by all eukaryotic organisms, which are short and easy to sequence; the broadest reconstructions have been performed either using the sequences of a few very ancient proteins or by using ribosomal RNA sequence.\n\nPhylogenetic relationships extend to a wide variety of nonfunctional sequence elements, including repeats, transposons, pseudogenes, and mutations in protein-coding sequences that do not change the amino-acid sequence. While a minority of these elements might later be found to harbor function, in aggregate they demonstrate that identity must be the product of common descent rather than common function.\n\nAll known extant (surviving) organisms are based on the same biochemical processes: genetic information encoded as nucleic acid (DNA, or RNA for many viruses), transcribed into RNA, then translated into proteins (that is, polymers of amino acids) by highly conserved ribosomes. Perhaps most tellingly, the Genetic Code (the \"translation table\" between DNA and amino acids) is the same for almost every organism, meaning that a piece of DNA in a bacterium codes for the same amino acid as in a human cell. ATP is used as energy currency by all extant life. A deeper understanding of developmental biology shows that common morphology is, in fact, the product of shared genetic elements. For example, although camera-like eyes are believed to have evolved independently on many separate occasions, they share a common set of light-sensing proteins (opsins), suggesting a common point of origin for all sighted creatures. Another example is the familiar vertebrate body plan, whose structure is controlled by the homeobox (Hox) family of genes.\n\nComparison of DNA sequences allows organisms to be grouped by sequence similarity, and the resulting phylogenetic trees are typically congruent with traditional taxonomy, and are often used to strengthen or correct taxonomic classifications. Sequence comparison is considered a measure robust enough to correct erroneous assumptions in the phylogenetic tree in instances where other evidence is scarce. For example, neutral human DNA sequences are approximately 1.2% divergent (based on substitutions) from those of their nearest genetic relative, the chimpanzee, 1.6% from gorillas, and 6.6% from baboons. Genetic sequence evidence thus allows inference and quantification of genetic relatedness between humans and other apes. The sequence of the 16S ribosomal RNA gene, a vital gene encoding a part of the ribosome, was used to find the broad phylogenetic relationships between all extant life. The analysis by Carl Woese resulted in the three-domain system, arguing for two major splits in the early evolution of life. The first split led to modern Bacteria and the subsequent split led to modern Archaea and Eukaryotes.\n\nSome DNA sequences are shared by very different organisms. It has been predicted by the theory of evolution that the differences in such DNA sequences between two organisms should roughly resemble both the biological difference between them according to their anatomy and the time that had passed since these two organisms have separated in the course of evolution, as seen in fossil evidence. The rate of accumulating such changes should be low for some sequences, namely those that code for critical RNA or proteins, and high for others that code for less critical RNA or proteins; but for every specific sequence, the rate of change should be roughly constant over time. These results have been experimentally confirmed. Two examples are DNA sequences coding for rRNA, which is highly conserved, and DNA sequences coding for fibrinopeptides (amino acid chains that are discarded during the formation of fibrin), which are highly non-conserved.\n\nProteomic evidence also supports the universal ancestry of life. Vital proteins, such as the ribosome, DNA polymerase, and RNA polymerase, are found in everything from the most primitive bacteria to the most complex mammals. The core part of the protein is conserved across all lineages of life, serving similar functions. Higher organisms have evolved additional protein subunits, largely affecting the regulation and protein-protein interaction of the core. Other overarching similarities between all lineages of extant organisms, such as DNA, RNA, amino acids, and the lipid bilayer, give support to the theory of common descent. Phylogenetic analyses of protein sequences from various organisms produce similar trees of relationship between all organisms. The chirality of DNA, RNA, and amino acids is conserved across all known life. As there is no functional advantage to right- or left-handed molecular chirality, the simplest hypothesis is that the choice was made randomly by early organisms and passed on to all extant life through common descent. Further evidence for reconstructing ancestral lineages comes from junk DNA such as pseudogenes, \"dead\" genes that steadily accumulate mutations.\n\nPseudogenes, also known as noncoding DNA, are extra DNA in a genome that do not get transcribed into RNA to synthesize proteins. Some of this noncoding DNA has known functions, but much of it has no known function and is called \"Junk DNA\". This is an example of a vestige since replicating these genes uses energy, making it a waste in many cases. A pseudogene can be produced when a coding gene accumulates mutations that prevent it from being transcribed, making it non-functional. But since it is not transcribed, it may disappear without affecting fitness, unless it has provided some beneficial function as non-coding DNA. Non-functional pseudogenes may be passed on to later species, thereby labeling the later species as descended from the earlier species.\n\nA large body of molecular evidence supports a variety of mechanisms for large evolutionary changes, including: genome and gene duplication, which facilitates rapid evolution by providing substantial quantities of genetic material under weak or no selective constraints; horizontal gene transfer, the process of transferring genetic material to another cell that is not an organism's offspring, allowing for species to acquire beneficial genes from each other; and recombination, capable of reassorting large numbers of different alleles and of establishing reproductive isolation. The endosymbiotic theory explains the origin of mitochondria and plastids (including chloroplasts), which are organelles of eukaryotic cells, as the incorporation of an ancient prokaryotic cell into ancient eukaryotic cell. Rather than evolving eukaryotic organelles slowly, this theory offers a mechanism for a sudden evolutionary leap by incorporating the genetic material and biochemical composition of a separate species. Evidence supporting this mechanism has been found in the protist \"Hatena\": as a predator it engulfs a green algal cell, which subsequently behaves as an endosymbiont, nourishing \"Hatena\", which in turn loses its feeding apparatus and behaves as an autotroph.\n\nSince metabolic processes do not leave fossils, research into the evolution of the basic cellular processes is done largely by comparison of existing organisms. Many lineages diverged when new metabolic processes appeared, and it is theoretically possible to determine when certain metabolic processes appeared by comparing the traits of the descendants of a common ancestor or by detecting their physical manifestations. As an example, the appearance of oxygen in the earth's atmosphere is linked to the evolution of photosynthesis.\n\nEvidence for the evolution of \"Homo sapiens\" from a common ancestor with chimpanzees is found in the number of chromosomes in humans as compared to all other members of Hominidae. All hominidae have 24 pairs of chromosomes, except humans, who have only 23 pairs. Human chromosome 2 is a result of an end-to-end fusion of two ancestral chromosomes.\n\nThe evidence for this includes:\n\n\nChromosome 2 thus presents strong evidence in favour of the common descent of humans and other apes. According to J. W. Ijdo, \"We conclude that the locus cloned in cosmids c8.1 and c29B is the relic of an ancient telomere-telomere fusion and marks the point at which two ancestral ape chromosomes fused to give rise to human chromosome 2.\"\n\nA classic example of biochemical evidence for evolution is the variance of the ubiquitous (i.e. all living organisms have it, because it performs very basic life functions) protein Cytochrome c in living cells. The variance of cytochrome c of different organisms is measured in the number of differing amino acids, each differing amino acid being a result of a base pair substitution, a mutation. If each differing amino acid is assumed the result of one base pair substitution, it can be calculated how long ago the two species diverged by multiplying the number of base pair substitutions by the estimated time it takes for a substituted base pair of the cytochrome c gene to be successfully passed on. For example, if the average time it takes for a base pair of the cytochrome c gene to mutate is N years, the number of amino acids making up the cytochrome c protein in monkeys differ by one from that of humans, this leads to the conclusion that the two species diverged N years ago.\n\nThe primary structure of cytochrome c consists of a chain of about 100 amino acids. Many higher order organisms possess a chain of 104 amino acids.\n\nThe cytochrome c molecule has been extensively studied for the glimpse it gives into evolutionary biology. Both chicken and turkeys have identical sequence homology (amino acid for amino acid), as do pigs, cows and sheep. Both humans and chimpanzees share the identical molecule, while rhesus monkeys share all but one of the amino acids: the 66th amino acid is isoleucine in the former and threonine in the latter.\n\nWhat makes these homologous similarities particularly suggestive of common ancestry in the case of cytochrome c, in addition to the fact that the phylogenies derived from them match other phylogenies very well, is the high degree of functional redundancy of the cytochrome c molecule. The different existing configurations of amino acids do not significantly affect the functionality of the protein, which indicates that the base pair substitutions are not part of a directed design, but the result of random mutations that aren't subject to selection.\n\nIn addition, Cytochrome b is commonly used as a region of mitochondrial DNA to determine phylogenetic relationships between organisms due to its sequence variability. It is considered most useful in determining relationships within families and genera. Comparative studies involving cytochrome b have resulted in new classification schemes and have been used to assign newly described species to a genus, as well as deepen the understanding of evolutionary relationships.\n\nEndogenous retroviruses (or ERVs) are remnant sequences in the genome left from ancient viral infections in an organism. The retroviruses (or virogenes) are always passed on to the next generation of that organism that received the infection. This leaves the virogene left in the genome. Because this event is rare and random, finding identical chromosomal positions of a virogene in two different species suggests common ancestry. Cats (Felidae) present a notable instance of virogene sequences demonstrating common descent. The standard phylogenetic tree for Felidae have smaller cats (\"Felis chaus\", \"Felis silvestris\", \"Felis nigripes\", and \"Felis catus\") diverging from larger cats such as the subfamily Pantherinae and other carnivores. The fact that small cats have an ERV where the larger cats do not suggests that the gene was inserted into the ancestor of the small cats after the larger cats had diverged. Another example of this is with humans and chimps. Humans contain numerous ERVs that comprise a considerable percentage of the genome. Sources vary, but 1% to 8% has been proposed. Humans and chimps share seven different occurrences of virogenes, while all primates share similar retroviruses congruent with phylogeny.\n\nMathematical models of evolution, pioneered by the likes of Sewall Wright, Ronald Fisher and J. B. S. Haldane and extended via diffusion theory by Motoo Kimura, allow predictions about the genetic structure of evolving populations. Direct examination of the genetic structure of modern populations via DNA sequencing has allowed verification of many of these predictions. For example, the Out of Africa theory of human origins, which states that modern humans developed in Africa and a small sub-population migrated out (undergoing a population bottleneck), implies that modern populations should show the signatures of this migration pattern. Specifically, post-bottleneck populations (Europeans and Asians) should show lower overall genetic diversity and a more uniform distribution of allele frequencies compared to the African population. Both of these predictions are borne out by actual data from a number of studies.\n\nComparative study of the anatomy of groups of animals or plants reveals that certain structural features are basically similar. For example, the basic structure of all flowers consists of sepals, petals, stigma, style and ovary; yet the size, colour, number of parts and specific structure are different for each individual species. The neural anatomy of fossilized remains may also be compared using advanced imaging techniques.\n\nOnce thought of as a refutation to evolutionary theory, atavisms are \"now seen as potent evidence of how much genetic potential is retained...after a particular structure has disappeared from a species\". \"Atavisms are the reappearance of a lost character typical of remote ancestors and not seen in the parents or recent ancestors...\" and are an \"[indication] of the developmental plasticity that exists within embryos...\" Atavisms occur because genes for previously existing phenotypical features are often preserved in DNA, even though the genes are not expressed in some or most of the organisms possessing them. Numerous examples have documented the occurrence of atavisms alongside experimental research triggering their formation. Due to the complexity and interrelatedness of the factors involved in the development of atavisms, both biologists and medical professionals find it \"difficult, if not impossible, to distinguish [them] from malformations.\"\n\nSome examples of atavisms found in the scientific literature include:\n\n\nEvolutionary developmental biology is the biological field that compares the developmental process of different organisms to determine ancestral relationships between species. A large variety of organism's genomes contain a small fraction of genes that control the organisms development. Hox genes are an example of these types of nearly universal genes in organisms pointing to an origin of common ancestry. Embryological evidence comes from the development of organisms at the embryological level with the comparison of different organisms embryos similarity. Remains of ancestral traits often appear and disappear in different stages of the embryological development process.\n\nSome examples include:\n\nIf widely separated groups of organisms are originated from a common ancestry, they are expected to have certain basic features in common. The degree of resemblance between two organisms should indicate how closely related they are in evolution:\n\nWhen a group of organisms share a homologous structure that is specialized to perform a variety of functions to adapt different environmental conditions and modes of life, it is called adaptive radiation. The gradual spreading of organisms with adaptive radiation is known as divergent evolution.\n\nTaxonomy is based on the fact that all organisms are related to each other in nested hierarchies based on shared characteristics. Most existing species can be organized rather easily in a nested hierarchical classification. This is evident from the Linnaean classification scheme. Based on shared derived characters, closely related organisms can be placed in one group (such as a genus), several genera can be grouped together into one family, several families can be grouped together into an order, etc. The existence of these nested hierarchies was recognized by many biologists before Darwin, but he showed that his theory of evolution with its branching pattern of common descent could explain them. Darwin described how common descent could provide a logical basis for classification:\n\nAn evolutionary tree (of Amniota, for example, the last common ancestor of mammals and reptiles, and all its descendants) illustrates the initial conditions causing evolutionary patterns of similarity (e.g., all Amniotes produce an egg that possesses the amnios) and the patterns of divergence amongst lineages (e.g., mammals and reptiles branching from the common ancestry in Amniota). Evolutionary trees provide conceptual models of evolving systems once thought limited in the domain of making predictions out of the theory. However, the method of phylogenetic bracketing is used to infer predictions with far greater probability than raw speculation. For example, paleontologists use this technique to make predictions about nonpreservable traits in fossil organisms, such as feathered dinosaurs, and molecular biologists use the technique to posit predictions about RNA metabolism and protein functions. Thus evolutionary trees are evolutionary hypotheses that refer to specific facts, such as the characteristics of organisms (e.g., scales, feathers, fur), providing evidence for the patterns of descent, and a causal explanation for modification (i.e., natural selection or neutral drift) in any given lineage (e.g., Amniota). Evolutionary biologists test evolutionary theory using phylogenetic systematic methods that measure how much the hypothesis (a particular branching pattern in an evolutionary tree) increases the likelihood of the evidence (the distribution of characters among lineages). The severity of tests for a theory increases if the predictions \"are the least probable of being observed if the causal event did not occur.\" \"Testability is a measure of how much the hypothesis increases the likelihood of the evidence.\"\n\nEvidence for common descent comes from the existence of vestigial structures. These rudimentary structures are often homologous to structures that correspond in related or ancestral species. A wide range of structures exist such as mutated and non-functioning genes, parts of a flower, muscles, organs, and even behaviors. This variety can be found across many different groups of species. In many cases they are degenerated or underdeveloped. The existence of vestigial organs can be explained in terms of changes in the environment or modes of life of the species. Those organs are typically functional in the ancestral species but are now either semi-functional, nonfunctional, or re-purposed.\n\nScientific literature concerning vestigial structures abounds. One study complied 64 examples of vestigial structures found in the literature across a wide range of disciplines within the 21st century. The following non-exhaustive list summarizes Senter et al. alongside various other examples:\n\n\n\nMany different species of insects have mouthparts derived from the same embryonic structures, indicating that the mouthparts are modifications of a common ancestor's original features. These include a labrum (upper lip), a pair of mandibles, a hypopharynx (floor of mouth), a pair of maxillae, and a labium. (Fig. 2c) Evolution has caused enlargement and modification of these structures in some species, while it has caused the reduction and loss of them in other species. The modifications enable the insects to exploit a variety of food materials.\n\nInsect mouthparts and antennae are considered homologues of insect legs. Parallel developments are seen in some arachnids: The anterior pair of legs may be modified as analogues of antennae, particularly in whip scorpions, which walk on six legs. These developments provide support for the theory that complex modifications often arise by duplication of components, with the duplicates modified in different directions.\n\nSimilar to the pentadactyl limb in mammals, the earliest dinosaurs split into two distinct orders—the \"saurischia\" and \"ornithischia\". They are classified as one or the other in accordance with what the fossils demonstrate. Figure 2d, shows that early \"saurischians\" resembled early \"ornithischians\". The pattern of the pelvis in all species of dinosaurs is an example of homologous structures. Each order of dinosaur has slightly differing pelvis bones providing evidence of common descent. Additionally, modern birds show a similarity to ancient \"saurischian\" pelvic structures indicating the evolution of birds from dinosaurs. This can also be seen in Figure 5c as the Aves branch off the Theropoda suborder.\n\nThe pattern of limb bones called pentadactyl limb is an example of homologous structures (Fig. 2e). It is found in all classes of tetrapods (\"i.e.\" from amphibians to mammals). It can even be traced back to the fins of certain fossil fishes from which the first amphibians evolved such as tiktaalik. The limb has a single proximal bone (humerus), two distal bones (radius and ulna), a series of carpals (wrist bones), followed by five series of metacarpals (palm bones) and phalanges (digits). Throughout the tetrapods, the fundamental structures of pentadactyl limbs are the same, indicating that they originated from a common ancestor. But in the course of evolution, these fundamental structures have been modified. They have become superficially different and unrelated structures to serve different functions in adaptation to different environments and modes of life. This phenomenon is shown in the forelimbs of mammals. For example:\n\nThe recurrent laryngeal nerve is a fourth branch of the vagus nerve, which is a cranial nerve. In mammals, its path is unusually long. As a part of the vagus nerve, it comes from the brain, passes through the neck down to heart, rounds the dorsal aorta and returns up to the larynx, again through the neck. (Fig. 2f)\n\nThis path is suboptimal even for humans, but for giraffes it becomes even more suboptimal. Due to the lengths of their necks, the recurrent laryngeal nerve may be up to long, despite its optimal route being a distance of just several inches.\n\nThe indirect route of this nerve is the result of evolution of mammals from fish, which had no neck and had a relatively short nerve that innervated one gill slit and passed near the gill arch. Since then, the gill it innervated has become the larynx and the gill arch has become the dorsal aorta in mammals.\n\nSimilar to the laryngeal nerve in giraffes, the vas deferens is part of the male anatomy of many vertebrates; it transports sperm from the epididymis in anticipation of ejaculation. In humans, the vas deferens routes up from the testicle, looping over the ureter, and back down to the urethra and penis. It has been suggested that this is due to the descent of the testicles during the course of human evolution—likely associated with temperature. As the testicles descended, the vas deferens lengthened to accommodate the accidental \"hook\" over the ureter.\n\nWhen organisms die, they often decompose rapidly or are consumed by scavengers, leaving no permanent evidences of their existence. However, occasionally, some organisms are preserved. The remains or traces of organisms from a past geologic age embedded in rocks by natural processes are called fossils. They are extremely important for understanding the evolutionary history of life on Earth, as they provide direct evidence of evolution and detailed information on the ancestry of organisms. Paleontology is the study of past life based on fossil records and their relations to different geologic time periods.\n\nFor fossilization to take place, the traces and remains of organisms must be quickly buried so that weathering and decomposition do not occur. Skeletal structures or other hard parts of the organisms are the most commonly occurring form of fossilized remains. There are also some trace \"fossils\" showing moulds, cast or imprints of some previous organisms.\n\nAs an animal dies, the organic materials gradually decay, such that the bones become porous. If the animal is subsequently buried in mud, mineral salts infiltrate into the bones and gradually fill up the pores. The bones harden into stones and are preserved as fossils. This process is known as petrification. If dead animals are covered by wind-blown sand, and if the sand is subsequently turned into mud by heavy rain or floods, the same process of mineral infiltration may occur. Apart from petrification, the dead bodies of organisms may be well preserved in ice, in hardened resin of coniferous trees (figure 3a), in tar, or in anaerobic, acidic peat. Fossilization can sometimes be a trace, an impression of a form. Examples include leaves and footprints, the fossils of which are made in layers that then harden.\n\nIt is possible to decipher how a particular group of organisms evolved by arranging its fossil record in a chronological sequence. Such a sequence can be determined because fossils are mainly found in sedimentary rock. Sedimentary rock is formed by layers of silt or mud on top of each other; thus, the resulting rock contains a series of horizontal layers, or strata. Each layer contains fossils typical for a specific time period when they formed. The lowest strata contain the oldest rock and the earliest fossils, while the highest strata contain the youngest rock and more recent fossils.\n\nA succession of animals and plants can also be seen from fossil discoveries. By studying the number and complexity of different fossils at different stratigraphic levels, it has been shown that older fossil-bearing rocks contain fewer types of fossilized organisms, and they all have a simpler structure, whereas younger rocks contain a greater variety of fossils, often with increasingly complex structures.\n\nFor many years, geologists could only roughly estimate the ages of various strata and the fossils found. They did so, for instance, by estimating the time for the formation of sedimentary rock layer by layer. Today, by measuring the proportions of radioactive and stable elements in a given rock, the ages of fossils can be more precisely dated by scientists. This technique is known as radiometric dating.\n\nThroughout the fossil record, many species that appear at an early stratigraphic level disappear at a later level. This is interpreted in evolutionary terms as indicating the times when species originated and became extinct. Geographical regions and climatic conditions have varied throughout Earth's history. Since organisms are adapted to particular environments, the constantly changing conditions favoured species that adapted to new environments through the mechanism of natural selection.\n\nDespite the relative rarity of suitable conditions for fossilization, an estimated 250,000 fossil species have been named. The number of individual fossils this represents varies greatly from species to species, but many millions of fossils have been recovered: for instance, more than three million fossils from the last ice age have been recovered from the La Brea Tar Pits in Los Angeles. Many more fossils are still in the ground, in various geological formations known to contain a high fossil density, allowing estimates of the total fossil content of the formation to be made. An example of this occurs in South Africa's Beaufort Formation (part of the Karoo Supergroup, which covers most of South Africa), which is rich in vertebrate fossils, including therapsids (reptile-mammal transitional forms). It has been estimated that this formation contains 800 billion vertebrate fossils. Palentologists have documented numerous transitional forms and have constructed \"an astonishingly comprehensive record of the key transitions in animal evolution\". Conducting a survey of the paleontological literature, one would find that there is \"abundant evidence for how all the major groups of animals are related, much of it in the form of excellent transitional fossils\".\n\nThe fossil record is an important source for scientists when tracing the evolutionary history of organisms. However, because of limitations inherent in the record, there are not fine scales of intermediate forms between related groups of species. This lack of continuous fossils in the record is a major limitation in tracing the descent of biological groups. When transitional fossils are found that show intermediate forms in what had previously been a gap in knowledge, they are often popularly referred to as \"missing links\".\n\nThere is a gap of about 100 million years between the beginning of the Cambrian period and the end of the Ordovician period. The early Cambrian period was the period from which numerous fossils of sponges, cnidarians (\"e.g.\", jellyfish), echinoderms (\"e.g.\", eocrinoids), molluscs (\"e.g.\", snails) and arthropods (\"e.g.\", trilobites) are found. The first animal that possessed the typical features of vertebrates, the \"Arandaspis\", was dated to have existed in the later Ordovician period. Thus few, if any, fossils of an intermediate type between invertebrates and vertebrates have been found, although likely candidates include the Burgess Shale animal, \"Pikaia gracilens\", and its Maotianshan shales relatives, \"Myllokunmingia\", \"Yunnanozoon\", \"Haikouella lanceolata\", and \"Haikouichthys\".\n\nSome of the reasons for the incompleteness of fossil records are:\n\nDue to an almost-complete fossil record found in North American sedimentary deposits from the early Eocene to the present, the horse provides one of the best examples of evolutionary history (phylogeny).\n\nThis evolutionary sequence starts with a small animal called \"Hyracotherium\" (commonly referred to as \"Eohippus\"), which lived in North America about 54 million years ago then spread across to Europe and Asia. Fossil remains of \"Hyracotherium\" show it to have differed from the modern horse in three important respects: it was a small animal (the size of a fox), lightly built and adapted for running; the limbs were short and slender, and the feet elongated so that the digits were almost vertical, with four digits in the forelimbs and three digits in the hindlimbs; and the incisors were small, the molars having low crowns with rounded cusps covered in enamel.\n\nThe probable course of development of horses from \"Hyracotherium\" to \"Equus\" (the modern horse) involved at least 12 genera and several hundred species. The major trends seen in the development of the horse to changing environmental conditions may be summarized as follows:\n\nFossilized plants found in different strata show that the marshy, wooded country in which \"Hyracotherium\" lived became gradually drier. Survival now depended on the head being in an elevated position for gaining a good view of the surrounding countryside, and on a high turn of speed for escape from predators, hence the increase in size and the replacement of the splayed-out foot by the hoofed foot. The drier, harder ground would make the original splayed-out foot unnecessary for support. The changes in the teeth can be explained by assuming that the diet changed from soft vegetation to grass. A dominant genus from each geological period has been selected (see figure 3e) to show the slow alteration of the horse lineage from its ancestral to its modern form.\n\nPrior to 2004, paleontologists had found fossils of amphibians with necks, ears, and four legs, in rock no older than 365 million years old. In rocks more than 385 million years old they could only find fish, without these amphibian characteristics. Evolutionary theory predicted that since amphibians evolved from fish, an intermediate form should be found in rock dated between 365 and 385 million years ago. Such an intermediate form should have many fish-like characteristics, conserved from 385 million years ago or more, but also have many amphibian characteristics as well. In 2004, an expedition to islands in the Canadian arctic searching specifically for this fossil form in rocks that were 375 million years old discovered fossils of Tiktaalik. Some years later, however, scientists in Poland found evidence of fossilised tetrapod tracks predating \"Tiktaalik\".\n\nData about the presence or absence of species on various continents and islands (biogeography) can provide evidence of common descent and shed light on patterns of speciation.\n\nAll organisms are adapted to their environment to a greater or lesser extent. If the abiotic and biotic factors within a habitat are capable of supporting a particular species in one geographic area, then one might assume that the same species would be found in a similar habitat in a similar geographic area, e.g. in Africa and South America. This is not the case. Plant and animal species are discontinuously distributed throughout the world:\n\nEven greater differences can be found if Australia is taken into consideration, though it occupies the same latitude as much of South America and Africa. Marsupials like kangaroos, bandicoots, and quolls make up about half of Australia's indigenous mammal species. By contrast, marsupials are today totally absent from Africa and form a smaller portion of the mammalian fauna of South America, where opossums, shrew opossums, and the monito del monte occur. The only living representatives of primitive egg-laying mammals (monotremes) are the echidnas and the platypus. The short-beaked echidna (\"Tachyglossus aculeatus\") and its subspecies populate Australia, Tasmania, New Guinea, and Kangaroo Island while the long-beaked echidna (\"Zaglossus bruijni\") lives only in New Guinea. The platypus lives in the waters of eastern Australia. They have been introduced to Tasmania, King Island, and Kangaroo Island. These Monotremes are totally absent in the rest of the world. On the other hand, Australia is missing many groups of placental mammals that are common on other continents (carnivorans, artiodactyls, shrews, squirrels, lagomorphs), although it does have indigenous bats and murine rodents; many other placentals, such as rabbits and foxes, have been introduced there by humans.\n\nOther animal distribution examples include bears, located on all continents excluding Africa, Australia and Antarctica, and the polar bear solely in the Arctic Circle and adjacent land masses. Penguins are found only around the South Pole despite similar weather conditions at the North Pole. Families of sirenians are distributed around the earth's waters, where manatees are located in western Africa waters, northern South American waters, and West Indian waters only while the related family, the dugongs, are located only in Oceanic waters north of Australia, and the coasts surrounding the Indian Ocean. The now extinct Steller's sea cow resided in the Bering Sea.\n\nThe same kinds of fossils are found from areas known to be adjacent to one another in the past but that, through the process of continental drift, are now in widely divergent geographic locations. For example, fossils of the same types of ancient amphibians, arthropods and ferns are found in South America, Africa, India, Australia and Antarctica, which can be dated to the Paleozoic Era, when these regions were united as a single landmass called Gondwana. Sometimes the descendants of these organisms can be identified and show unmistakable similarity to each other, even though they now inhabit very different regions and climates.\n\nEvidence from island biogeography has played an important and historic role in the development of evolutionary biology. For purposes of biogeography, islands are divided into two classes. Continental islands are islands like Great Britain, and Japan that have at one time or another been part of a continent. Oceanic islands, like the Hawaiian islands, the Galápagos Islands and St. Helena, on the other hand are islands that have formed in the ocean and never been part of any continent. Oceanic islands have distributions of native plants and animals that are unbalanced in ways that make them distinct from the biotas found on continents or continental islands. Oceanic islands do not have native terrestrial mammals (they do sometimes have bats and seals), amphibians, or fresh water fish. In some cases they have terrestrial reptiles (such as the iguanas and giant tortoises of the Galápagos Islands) but often (such as in Hawaii) they do not. This is despite the fact that when species such as rats, goats, pigs, cats, mice, and cane toads, are introduced to such islands by humans they often thrive. Starting with Charles Darwin, many scientists have conducted experiments and made observations that have shown that the types of animals and plants found, and not found, on such islands are consistent with the theory that these islands were colonized accidentally by plants and animals that were able to reach them. Such accidental colonization could occur by air, such as plant seeds carried by migratory birds, or bats and insects being blown out over the sea by the wind, or by floating from a continent or other island by sea (for example, by some kinds of plant seeds like coconuts that can survive immersion in salt water), and reptiles that can survive for extended periods on rafts of vegetation carried to sea by storms.\n\nMany of the species found on remote islands are endemic to a particular island or group of islands, meaning they are found nowhere else on earth. Examples of species endemic to islands include many flightless birds of New Zealand, lemurs of Madagascar, the Komodo dragon of Komodo, the dragon's blood tree of Socotra, Tuatara of New Zealand, and others. However, many such endemic species are related to species found on other nearby islands or continents; the relationship of the animals found on the Galápagos Islands to those found in South America is a well-known example. All of these facts, the types of plants and animals found on oceanic islands, the large number of endemic species found on oceanic islands, and the relationship of such species to those living on the nearest continents, are most easily explained if the islands were colonized by species from nearby continents that evolved into the endemic species now found there.\n\nOther types of endemism do not have to include, in the strict sense, islands. Islands can mean isolated lakes or remote and isolated areas. Examples of these would include the highlands of Ethiopia, Lake Baikal, fynbos of South Africa, forests of New Caledonia, and others. Examples of endemic organisms living in isolated areas include the kagu of New Caledonia, cloud rats of the Luzon tropical pine forests of the Philippines, the boojum tree (\"Fouquieria columnaris\") of the Baja California peninsula, the Baikal seal and the omul of Lake Baikal.\n\nOceanic islands are frequently inhabited by clusters of closely related species that fill a variety of ecological niches, often niches that are filled by very different species on continents. Such clusters, like the finches of the Galápagos, Hawaiian honeycreepers, members of the sunflower family on the Juan Fernandez Archipelago and wood weevils on St. Helena are called adaptive radiations because they are best explained by a single species colonizing an island (or group of islands) and then diversifying to fill available ecological niches. Such radiations can be spectacular; 800 species of the fruit fly family \"Drosophila\", nearly half the world's total, are endemic to the Hawaiian islands. Another illustrative example from Hawaii is the silversword alliance, which is a group of thirty species found only on those islands. Members range from the silverswords that flower spectacularly on high volcanic slopes to trees, shrubs, vines and mats that occur at various elevations from mountain top to sea level, and in Hawaiian habitats that vary from deserts to rainforests. Their closest relatives outside Hawaii, based on molecular studies, are tarweeds found on the west coast of North America. These tarweeds have sticky seeds that facilitate distribution by migrant birds. Additionally, nearly all of the species on the island can be crossed and the hybrids are often fertile, and they have been hybridized experimentally with two of the west coast tarweed species as well. Continental islands have less distinct biota, but those that have been long separated from any continent also have endemic species and adaptive radiations, such as the 75 lemur species of Madagascar, and the eleven extinct moa species of New Zealand.\n\nA ring species is a connected series of populations, each of which can interbreed with its neighbors, with at least two \"end\" populations which are too distantly related to interbreed, though with the potential for gene flow between all the populations. Ring species represent speciation and have been cited as evidence of evolution. They illustrate what happens over time as populations genetically diverge, specifically because they represent, in living populations, what normally happens over time between long deceased ancestor populations and living populations, in which the intermediates have become extinct. Richard Dawkins says that ring species \"are only showing us in the spatial dimension something that must always happen in the time dimension\".\n\nThe combination of continental drift and evolution can sometimes be used to predict what will be found in the fossil record. \"Glossopteris\" is an extinct species of seed fern plants from the Permian. \"Glossopteris\" appears in the fossil record around the beginning of the Permian on the ancient continent of Gondwana. Continental drift explains the current biogeography of the tree. Present day \"Glossopteris\" fossils are found in Permian strata in southeast South America, southeast Africa, all of Madagascar, northern India, all of Australia, all of New Zealand, and scattered on the southern and northern edges of Antarctica. During the Permian, these continents were connected as Gondwana (see figure 4c) in agreement with magnetic striping, other fossil distributions, and glacial scratches pointing away from the temperate climate of the South Pole during the Permian.\n\nThe history of metatherians (the clade containing marsupials and their extinct, primitive ancestors) provides an example of how evolutionary theory and the movement of continents can be combined to make predictions concerning fossil stratigraphy and distribution. The oldest metatherian fossils are found in present-day China. Metatherians spread westward into modern North America (still attached to Eurasia) and then to South America, which was connected to North America until around 65 mya. Marsupials reached Australia via Antarctica about 50 mya, shortly after Australia had split off suggesting a single dispersion event of just one species. Evolutionary theory suggests that the Australian marsupials descended from the older ones found in the Americas. Geologic evidence suggests that between 30 and 40 million years ago South America and Australia were still part of the Southern Hemisphere super continent of Gondwana and that they were connected by land that is now part of Antarctica. Therefore, when combining the models, scientists could predict that marsupials migrated from what is now South America, through Antarctica, and then to present-day Australia between 40 and 30 million years ago. A first marsupial fossil of the extinct family Polydolopidae was found on Seymour Island on the Antarctic Peninsula in 1982. Further fossils have subsequently been found, including members of the marsupial orders Didelphimorphia (opossum) and Microbiotheria, as well as ungulates and a member of the enigmatic extinct order Gondwanatheria, possibly \"Sudamerica ameghinoi\".\n\nThe history of the camel provides an example of how fossil evidence can be used to reconstruct migration and subsequent evolution. The fossil record indicates that the evolution of camelids started in North America (see figure 4e), from which, six million years ago, they migrated across the Bering Strait into Asia and then to Africa, and 3.5 million years ago through the Isthmus of Panama into South America. Once isolated, they evolved along their own lines, giving rise to the Bactrian camel and dromedary in Asia and Africa and the llama and its relatives in South America. Camelids then became extinct in North America at the end of the last ice age.\n\nExamples for the evidence for evolution often stem from direct observation of natural selection in the field and the laboratory. This section is unique in that it provides a narrower context concerning the process of selection. All of the examples provided prior to this have described the evidence that evolution has occurred, but has not provided the major underlying mechanism: natural selection. This section explicitly provides evidence that natural selection occurs, has been replicated artificially, and can be replicated in laboratory experiments.\n\nScientists have observed and documented a multitude of events where natural selection is in action. The most well known examples are antibiotic resistance in the medical field along with better-known laboratory experiments documenting evolution's occurrence. Natural selection is tantamount to common descent in that long-term occurrence and selection pressures can lead to the diversity of life on earth as found today. All adaptations—documented and undocumented changes concerned—are caused by natural selection (and a few other minor processes). It is well established that, \"...natural selection is a ubiquitous part of speciation...\", and is the primary driver of speciation; therefore, the following examples of natural selection \"and\" speciation will often interdepend or correspond with one another. The examples below are only a small fraction of the actual experiments and observations.\n\nArtificial selection demonstrates the diversity that can exist among organisms that share a relatively recent common ancestor. In artificial selection, one species is bred selectively at each generation, allowing only those organisms that exhibit desired characteristics to reproduce. These characteristics become increasingly well developed in successive generations. Artificial selection was successful long before science discovered the genetic basis. Examples of artificial selection include dog breeding, genetically modified food, flower breeding, and the cultivation of foods such as wild cabbage, and others.\n\nExperimental evolution uses controlled experiments to test hypotheses and theories of evolution. In one early example, William Dallinger set up an experiment shortly before 1880, subjecting microbes to heat with the aim of forcing adaptive changes. His experiment ran for around seven years, and his published results were acclaimed, but he did not resume the experiment after the apparatus failed.\n\nA large-scale example of experimental evolution is Richard Lenski's multi-generation experiment with \"Escherichia coli\". Lenski observed that some strains of \"E. coli\" evolved a complex new ability, the ability to metabolize citrate, after tens of thousands of generations. The evolutionary biologist Jerry Coyne commented as a critique of creationism, saying, \"the thing I like most is it says you can get these complex traits evolving by a combination of unlikely events. That's just what creationists say can't happen.\" In addition to the metabolic changes, the different bacterial populations were found to have diverged in respect to both morphology (the overall size of the cell) and fitness (of which was measured in competition with the ancestors). The \"E. coli\" long-term evolution experiment that began in 1988 is still in progress, and has shown adaptations including the evolution of a strain of \"E. coli\" that was able to grow on citric acid in the growth media—a trait absent in all other known forms of \"E. coli\", including the initial strain.\n\nA study of species of \"Daphnia\" and lead pollution in the 20th century predicted that an increase in lead pollution would lead to strong selection of lead tolerance. Researchers were able to use \"resurrection ecology\", hatching decades-old \"Daphnia\" eggs from the time when lakes were heavily polluted with lead. The hatchlings in the study were compared to current-day \"Daphnia\", and demonstrated \"dramatic fitness differences between old and modern phenotypes when confronted with a widespread historical environmental stressor\". Essentially, the modern-day \"Daphnia\" were unable to resist or tolerate high levels of lead (this is due to the huge reduction of lead pollution in 21st century lakes). The old hatchlings, however, were able to tolerate high lead pollution. The authors concluded that \"by employing the techniques of resurrection ecology, we were able to show clear phenotypic change over decades...\".\n\nA classic example was the phenotypic change, light-to-dark color adaptation, in the peppered moth, due to pollution from the Industrial Revolution in England.\n\nThe development and spread of antibiotic-resistant bacteria is evidence for the process of evolution of species. Thus the appearance of vancomycin-resistant \"Staphylococcus aureus\", and the danger it poses to hospital patients, is a direct result of evolution through natural selection. The rise of \"Shigella\" strains resistant to the synthetic antibiotic class of sulfonamides also demonstrates the generation of new information as an evolutionary process. Similarly, the appearance of DDT resistance in various forms of \"Anopheles\" mosquitoes, and the appearance of myxomatosis resistance in breeding rabbit populations in Australia, are both evidence of the existence of evolution in situations of evolutionary selection pressure in species in which generations occur rapidly.\n\nAll classes of microbes develop resistance: including fungi (antifungal resistance), viruses (antiviral resistance), protozoa (antiprotozoal resistance), and bacteria (antibiotic resistance). This is to be expected when considering that all life exhibits universal genetic code and is therefore subject to the process of evolution through its various mechanisms.\n\nAnother example of organisms adapting to human-caused conditions are Nylon-eating bacteria: a strain of \"Flavobacterium\" that are capable of digesting certain byproducts of nylon 6 manufacturing. There is scientific consensus that the capacity to synthesize nylonase most probably developed as a single-step mutation that survived because it improved the fitness of the bacteria possessing the mutation. This is seen as a good example of evolution through mutation and natural selection that has been observed as it occurs and could not have come about until the production of nylon by humans.\n\nBoth subspecies \"Mimulus aurantiacus puniceus\" (red-flowered) and \"Mimulus aurantiacus australis\" (yellow-flowered) of monkeyflowers are isolated due to the preferences of their hummingbird and hawkmoth pollinators. The radiation of \"M. aurantiacus\" subspecies are mostly yellow colored; however, both \"M. a.\" ssp. \"puniceus\" and \"M. a.\" ssp. \"flemingii\" are red. Phylogenetic analysis suggests two independent origins of red-colored flowers that arose due to \"cis\"-regulatory mutations in the gene \"MaMyb2\" that is present in all \"M. aurantiacus\" subspecies. Further research suggested that two independent mutations did not take place, but one \"MaMyb2\" allele was transferred via introgressive hybridization. This study presents an example of the overlap of research in various disciplines. Gene isolation and \"cis\"-regulatory functions; phylogenetic analysis; geographic location and pollinator preference; and species hybridization and speciation are just some of the areas in which data can be obtained to document the occurrence of evolution.\n\nLike the codfish, human-caused pollution can come in different forms. Radiotrophic fungi is a perfect example of natural selection taking place after a chemical accident. Radiotrophic fungi appears to use the pigment melanin to convert gamma radiation into chemical energy for growth and were first discovered in 2007 as black molds growing inside and around the Chernobyl Nuclear Power Plant. Research at the Albert Einstein College of Medicine showed that three melanin-containing fungi, \"Cladosporium sphaerospermum\", \"Wangiella dermatitidis\", and \"Cryptococcus neoformans\", increased in biomass and accumulated acetate faster in an environment in which the radiation level was 500 times higher than in the normal environment.\n\nWhile studying guppies (\"Poecilia reticulata\") in Trinidad, biologist John Endler detected selection at work on the fish populations. To rule out alternative possibilities, Endler set up a highly controlled experiment to mimic the natural habitat by constructing ten ponds within a laboratory greenhouse at Princeton University. Each pond contained gravel to exactly match that of the natural ponds. After capturing a random sample of guppies from ponds in Trinidad, he raised and mixed them to create similar genetically diverse populations and measured each fish (spot length, spot height, spot area, relative spot length, relative spot height, total patch area, and standard body lengths). For the experiment he added \"Crenicichla alta\" (\"P. reticulata\"'s main predator) in four of the ponds, \"Rivulus hartii\" (a non-predator fish) in four of the ponds, and left the remaining two ponds empty with only the guppies. After 10 generations, comparisons were made between each pond's guppy populations and measurements were taken again. Endler found that the populations had evolved dramatically different color patterns in the control and non-predator pools and drab color patterns in the predator pool. Predation pressure had caused a selection against standing out from background gravel.\nIn parallel, during this experiment, Endler conducted a field experiment in Trinidad where he caught guppies from ponds where they had predators and relocated them to ponds upstream where the predators did not live. After 15 generations, Endler found that the relocated guppies had evolved dramatic and colorful patterns. Essentially, both experiments showed convergence due to similar selection pressures (i.e. predator selection against contrasting color patterns and sexual selection for contrasting color patterns).\n\nIn a later study by David Reznick, the field population was examined 11 years later after Endler relocated the guppies to high streams. The study found that the populations has evolved in a number of different ways: bright color patterns, late maturation, larger sizes, smaller litter sizes, and larger offspring within litters. Further studies of \"P. reticulata\" and their predators in the streams of Trinidad have indicated that varying modes of selection through predation have not only changed the guppies color patterns, sizes, and behaviors, but their life histories and life history patterns.\n\nNatural selection is observed in contemporary human populations, with recent findings demonstrating that the population at risk of the severe debilitating disease kuru has significant over-representation of an immune variant of the prion protein gene G127V versus non-immune alleles. Scientists postulate one of the reasons for the rapid selection of this genetic variant is the lethality of the disease in non-immune persons. Other reported evolutionary trends in other populations include a lengthening of the reproductive period, reduction in cholesterol levels, blood glucose and blood pressure.\n\nA well known example of selection occurring in human populations is lactose tolerance. Lactose intolerance is the inability to metabolize lactose, because of a lack of the required enzyme lactase in the digestive system. The normal mammalian condition is for the young of a species to experience reduced lactase production at the end of the weaning period (a species-specific length of time). In humans, in non-dairy consuming societies, lactase production usually drops about 90% during the first four years of life, although the exact drop over time varies widely. Lactase activity persistence in adults is associated with two polymorphisms: C/T 13910 and G/A 22018 located in the \"MCM6\" gene. This gene difference eliminates the shutdown in lactase production, making it possible for members of these populations to continue consumption of raw milk and other fresh and fermented dairy products throughout their lives without difficulty. This appears to be an evolutionarily recent (around 10,000 years ago [and 7,500 years ago in Europe]) adaptation to dairy consumption, and has occurred independently in both northern Europe and east Africa in populations with a historically pastoral lifestyle.\n\nIn 1971, ten adult specimens of \"Podarcis sicula\" (the Italian wall lizard) were transported from the Croatian island of Pod Kopište to the island Pod Mrčaru (about 3.5 km to the east). Both islands lie in the Adriatic Sea near Lastovo, where the lizards founded a new bottlenecked population. The two islands have similar size, elevation, microclimate, and a general absence of terrestrial predators and the \"P. sicula\" expanded for decades without human interference, even out-competing the (now locally extinct) \"Podarcis melisellensis\" population.\n\nIn the 1990s, scientists returned to Pod Mrčaru and found that the lizards there differed greatly from those on Kopište. While mitochondrial DNA analyses have verified that \"P. sicula\" currently on Mrčaru are genetically very similar to the Kopište source population, the new Mrčaru population of \"P. sicula\" had a larger average size, shorter hind limbs, lower maximal sprint speed and altered response to simulated predatory attacks compared to the original Kopište population. These changes were attributed to \"relaxed predation intensity\" and greater protection from vegetation on Mrčaru.\n\nIn 2008, further analysis revealed that the Mrčaru population of \"P. sicula\" have significantly different head morphology (longer, wider, and taller heads) and increased bite force compared to the original Kopište population. This change in head shape corresponded with a shift in diet: Kopište \"P. sicula\" are primarily insectivorous, but those on Mrčaru eat substantially more plant matter. The changes in foraging style may have contributed to a greater population density and decreased territorial behavior of the Mrčaru population.\n\nAnother difference found between the two populations was the discovery, in the Mrčaru lizards, of cecal valves, which slow down food passage and provide fermenting chambers, allowing commensal microorganisms to convert cellulose to nutrients digestible by the lizards. Additionally, the researchers discovered that nematodes were common in the guts of Mrčaru lizards, but absent from Kopište \"P. sicula\", which do not have cecal valves. The cecal valves, which occur in less than 1 percent of all known species of scaled reptiles, have been described as an \"adaptive novelty, a brand new feature not present in the ancestral population and newly evolved in these lizards\".\n\nA similar study was also done regarding the polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) that pollute the waters of the Elizabeth River in Portsmouth, Virginia. This chemical is a product of creosote, a type of tar. The Atlantic killifish (\"Fundulus heteroclitus\") has evolved a resistance to PAHs involving the AHR gene (the same gene involved in the tomcods). This particular study focused on the resistance to \"acute toxicity and cardiac teratogenesis\" caused by PAHs.\nthat mutated within the tomcods in the Hudson River.\n\nAn example involving the direct observation of gene modification due to selection pressures is the resistance to PCBs in codfish. After General Electric dumped polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) in the Hudson River from 1947 through 1976, tomcods (\"Microgadus tomcod\") living in the river were found to have evolved an increased resistance to the compound's toxic effects. The tolerance to the toxins is due to a change in the coding section of specific gene. Genetic samples were taken from the cods from 8 different rivers in the New England region: the St. Lawrence River, Miramichi River, Margaree River, Squamscott River, Niantic River, the Shinnecock Basic, the Hudson River, and the Hackensack River. Genetic analysis found that in the population of tomcods in the four southernmost rivers, the gene AHR2 (aryl hydrocarbon receptor 2) was present as an allele with a difference of two amino acid deletions. This deletion conferred a resistance to PCB in the fish species and was found in 99% of Hudson River tomcods, 92% in the Hackensack River, 6% in the Niantic River, and 5% in Shinnecock Bay. This pattern along the sampled bodies of waters infers a direct correlation of selective pressures leading to the evolution of PCB resistance in Atlantic tomcod fish.\n\nUrban wildlife is a broad and easily observable case of human-caused selection pressure on wildlife. With the growth in human habitats, different animals have adapted to survive within these urban environments. These types of environments can exert selection pressures on organisms, often leading to new adaptations. For example, the weed \"Crepis sancta\", found in France, has two types of seed, heavy and fluffy. The heavy ones land nearby to the parent plant, whereas fluffy seeds float further away on the wind. In urban environments, seeds that float far often land on infertile concrete. Within about 5–12 generations, the weed evolves to produce significantly heavier seeds than its rural relatives. Other examples of urban wildlife are rock pigeons and species of crows adapting to city environments around the world; African penguins in Simon's Town; baboons in South Africa; and a variety of insects living in human habitations. Studies have been conducted and have found striking changes to animals' (more specifically mammals') behavior and physical brain size due to their interactions with human-created environments.\n\nAnimals that exhibit ecotonal variations allow for research concerning the mechanisms that maintain population differentiation. A wealth of information about natural selection, genotypic, and phenotypic variation; adaptation and ecomorphology; and social signaling has been acquired from the studies of three species of lizards located in the White Sands desert of New Mexico. \"Holbrookia maculata\", \"Aspidoscelis inornatus\", and \"Sceloporus undulatus\" exhibit ecotonal populations that match both the dark soils and the white sands in the region. Research conducted on these species has found significant phenotypic and genotypic differences between the dark and light populations due to strong selection pressures. For example, \"H. maculata\" exhibits the strongest phenotypic difference (matches best with the substrate) of the light colored population coinciding with the least amount of gene flow between the populations and the highest genetic differences when compared to the other two lizard species.\n\nNew Mexico's White Sands are a recent geologic formation (approximately 6000 years old to possibly 2000 years old). This recent origin of these gypsum sand dunes suggests that species exhibiting lighter-colored variations have evolved in a relatively short time frame. The three lizard species previously mentioned have been found to display variable social signal coloration in coexistence with their ecotonal variants. Not only have the three species convergently evolved their lighter variants due to the selection pressures from the environment, they've also evolved ecomorphological differences: morphology, behavior (in is case, escape behavior), and performance (in this case, sprint speed) collectively. Roches' work found surprising results in the escape behavior of \"H. maculata\" and \"S. undulatus\". When dark morphs were placed on white sands, their startle response was significantly diminished. This result could be due to varying factors relating to sand temperature or visual acuity; however, regardless of the cause, \"…failure of mismatched lizards to sprint could be maladaptive when faced with a predator\".\n\nSpeciation is the evolutionary process by which new biological species arise. Biologists research species using different theoretical frameworks for what constitutes a species (see species problem and species complex) and there exists debate with regard to delineation. Nevertheless, much of the current research suggests that, \"...speciation is a process of emerging genealogical distinctness, rather than a discontinuity affecting all genes simultaneously\" and, in allopatry (the most common form of speciation), \"reproductive isolation is a byproduct of evolutionary change in isolated populations, and thus can be considered an evolutionary accident\". Speciation occurs as the result of the latter (allopatry); however, a variety of differing agents have been documented and are often defined and classified in various forms (e.g. peripatric, parapatric, sympatric, polyploidization, hybridization, etc.). Instances of speciation have been observed in both nature and the laboratory. A.-B Florin and A. Ödeen note that, \"strong laboratory evidence for allopatric speciation is lacking...\"; however, contrary to laboratory studies (focused specifically on models of allopatric speciation), \"speciation most definitely occurs; [and] the vast amount of evidence from nature makes it unreasonable to argue otherwise\". Coyne and Orr compiled a list of 19 laboratory experiments on \"Drosophila\" presenting examples of allopatric speciation by divergent selection concluding that, \"reproductive isolation in allopatry can evolve as a byproduct of divergent selection\".\n\nResearch documenting speciation is abundant. Biologists have documented numerous examples of speciation in nature—with evolution having produced far more species than any observer would consider necessary. For example, there are well over 350,000 described species of beetles. Examples of speciation come from the observations of island biogeography and the process of adaptive radiation, both explained previously. Evidence of common descent can also be found through paleontological studies of speciation within geologic strata. The examples described below represent different modes of speciation and provide strong evidence for common descent. It is important to acknowledge that not all speciation research directly observes divergence from \"start-to-finish\". This is by virtue of research delimitation and definition ambiguity, and occasionally leads research towards historical reconstructions. In light of this, examples abound, and the following are by no means exhaustive—comprising only a small fraction of the instances observed. Once again, take note of the established fact that, \"...natural selection is a ubiquitous part of speciation...\", and is the primary driver of speciation, so; hereinafter, examples of speciation will often interdepend and correspond with selection.\n\nLimitations exist within the fossil record when considering the concept of what constitutes a species. Paleontologists largely rely on a different framework: the morphological species concept. Due to the absence of information such as reproductive behavior or genetic material in fossils, paleontologists distinguish species by their phenotypic differences. Extensive investigation of the fossil record has led to numerous theories concerning speciation (in the context of paleontology) with many of the studies suggesting that stasis, punctuation, and lineage branching are common. In 1995, D. H. Erwin, et al. published a major work—\"New Approaches to Speciation in the Fossil Record\"—which compiled 58 studies of fossil speciation (between 1972 and 1995) finding most of the examples suggesting stasis (involving anagenesis or punctuation) and 16 studies suggesting speciation. Despite stasis appearing to be the predominate conclusion at first glance, this particular meta-study investigated deeper, concluding that, \"...no single pattern appears dominate...\" with \"...the preponderance of studies illustrating \"both\" stasis and gradualism in the history of a single lineage\". Many of the studies conducted utilize seafloor sediments that can provide a significant amount of data concerning planktonic microfossils. The succession of fossils in stratigraphy can be used to determine evolutionary trends among fossil organisms. In addition, incidences of speciation can be interpreted from the data and numerous studies have been conducted documenting both morphological evolution and speciation.\n\nExtensive research on the planktonic foraminifer \"Globorotalia truncatulinoides\" has provided insight into paleobiogeographical and paleoenvironmental studies alongside the relationship between the environment and evolution. In an extensive study of the paleobiogeography of \"G. truncatulinoides\", researchers found evidence that suggested the formation of a new species (via the sympatric speciation framework). Cores taken of the sediment containing the three species \"G. crassaformis\", \"G. tosaensis\", and \"G. truncatulinoides\" found that before 2.7 Ma, only \"G. crassaformis\" and \"G. tosaensis\" existed. A speciation event occurred at that time, whereby intermediate forms existed for quite some time. Eventually \"G. tosaensis\" disappears from the record (suggesting extinction) but exists as an intermediate between the extant \"G. crassaformis\" and \"G. truncatulinoides\". This record of the fossils also matched the already existing phylogeny constructed by morphological characters of the three species. See figure 6a.\n\nIn a large study of five species of radiolarians (\"Calocycletta caepa\", \"Pterocanium prismatium\", \"Pseudoculous vema\", \"Eucyrtidium calvertense\", and \"Eucyrtidium matuyamai\"), the researchers documented considerable evolutionary change in each lineage. Alongside this, trends with the closely related species \"E. calvertense\" and \"E. matuyamai\" showed that about 1.9 Mya \"E. calvertense\" invaded a new region of the Pacific, becoming isolated from the main population. The stratigraphy of this species clearly shows that this isolated population evolved into \"E. Matuyamai\". It then reinvaded the region of the still-existing and static \"E. calvertense\" population whereby a sudden decrease in body size occurred. Eventually the invader \"E. matuyamai\" disappeared from the stratum (presumably due to extinction) coinciding with a desistance of size reduction of the \"E. calvertense\" population. From that point on, the change in size leveled to a constant. The authors suggest competition-induced character displacement.\n\nResearchers conducted measurements on 5,000 \"Rhizosolenia\" (a planktonic diatom) specimens from eight sedimentary cores in the Pacific Ocean. The core samples spanned two million years and were chronologized using sedimentary magnetic field reversal measurements. All the core samples yielded a similar pattern of divergence: with a single lineage (\"R. bergonii\") occurring before 3.1 Mya and two morphologically distinct lineages (daughter species: \"R. praebergonii\") appearing after. The parameters used to measure the samples were consistent throughout each core. An additional study of the daughter species \"R. praebergonii\" found that, after the divergence, it invaded the Indian Ocean.\n\nA recent study was conducted involving the planktonic foraminifer Turborotalia. The authors extracted \"51 stratigraphically ordered samples from a site within the oceanographically stable tropical North Pacific gyre\". Two hundred individual species were examined using ten specific morphological traits (size, compression index, chamber aspect ratio, chamber inflation, aperture aspect ratio, test height, test expansion, umbilical angle, coiling direction, and the number of chambers in the final whorl). Utilizing multivariate statistical clustering methods, the study found that the species continued to evolve non-directionally within the Eocene from 45 Ma to about 36 Ma. However, from 36 Ma to approximately 34 Ma, the stratigraphic layers showed two distinct clusters with significantly defining characteristics distinguishing one another from a single species. The authors concluded that speciation must have occurred and that the two new species were ancestral to the prior species. Just as in most of evolutionary biology, this example represents the interdisciplinary nature of the field and the necessary collection of data from various fields (e.g. oceanography, paleontology) and the integration of mathematical analysis (e.g. biometry).\n\nThere exists evidence for vertebrate speciation despite limitations imposed by the fossil record. Studies have been conducted documenting similar patterns seen in marine invertebrates. For example, extensive research documenting rates of morphological change, evolutionary trends, and speciation patterns in small mammals has significantly contributed to the scientific literature; once more, demonstrating that evolution (and speciation) occurred in the past and lends support common ancestry.\n\nA study of four mammalian genera: \"Hyopsodus\", \"Pelycodus\", \"Haplomylus\" (three from the Eocene), and \"Plesiadapis\" (from the Paleocene) found that—through a large number of stratigraphic layers and specimen sampling—each group exhibited, \"gradual phyletic evolution, overall size increase, iterative evolution of small species, and character divergence following the origin of each new lineage\". The authors of this study concluded that speciation was discernible. In another study concerning morphological trends and rates of evolution found that the European arvicolid rodent radiated into 52 distinct lineages over a time frame of 5 million years while documenting examples of phyletic gradualism, punctuation, and stasis.\n\nWilliam R. Rice and George W. Salt found experimental evidence of sympatric speciation in the common fruit fly. They collected a population of \"Drosophila melanogaster\" from Davis, California and placed the pupae into a habitat maze. Newborn flies had to investigate the maze to find food. The flies had three choices to take in finding food. Light and dark (phototaxis), up and down (geotaxis), and the scent of acetaldehyde and the scent of ethanol (chemotaxis) were the three options. This eventually divided the flies into 42 spatio-temporal habitats.\n\nThey then cultured two strains that chose opposite habitats. One of the strains emerged early, immediately flying upward in the dark attracted to the acetaldehyde. The other strain emerged late and immediately flew downward, attracted to light and ethanol. Pupae from the two strains were then placed together in the maze and allowed to mate at the food site. They then were collected. A selective penalty was imposed on the female flies that switched habitats. This entailed that none of their gametes would pass on to the next generation. After 25 generations of this mating test, it showed reproductive isolation between the two strains. They repeated the experiment again without creating the penalty against habitat switching and the result was the same; reproductive isolation was produced.\n\nA study of the gall-forming wasp species \"Belonocnema treatae\" found that populations inhabiting different host plants (\"Quercus geminata\" and \"Q. Virginiana\") exhibited different body size and gall morphology alongside a strong expression of sexual isolation. The study hypothesized that \"B. treatae\" populations inhabiting different host plants would show evidence of divergent selection promoting speciation. The researchers sampled gall wasp species and oak tree localities, measured body size (right hand tibia of each wasp), and counted gall chamber numbers. In addition to measurements, they conducted mating assays and statistical analyses. Genetic analysis was also conducted on two mtDNA sites (416 base pairs from cytochrome C and 593 base pairs from cytochrome oxidase ) to \"control for the confounding effects of time since divergence among allopatric populations\".\n\nIn an additional study, the researchers studied two gall wasp species \"B. treatae\" and \"Disholcaspis quercusvirens\" and found strong morphological and behavioral variation among host-associated populations. This study further confounded prerequisites to speciation.\n\nOne example of evolution at work is the case of the hawthorn fly, \"Rhagoletis pomonella\", also known as the apple maggot fly, which appears to be undergoing sympatric speciation. Different populations of hawthorn fly feed on different fruits. A distinct population emerged in North America in the 19th century some time after apples, a non-native species, were introduced. This apple-feeding population normally feeds only on apples and not on the historically preferred fruit of hawthorns. The current hawthorn feeding population does not normally feed on apples. Some evidence, such as the fact that six out of thirteen allozyme loci are different, that hawthorn flies mature later in the season and take longer to mature than apple flies; and that there is little evidence of interbreeding (researchers have documented a 4–6% hybridization rate) suggests that speciation is occurring.\n\nThe London Underground mosquito is a species of mosquito in the genus \"Culex\" found in the London Underground. It evolved from the overground species \"Culex pipiens\". This mosquito, although first discovered in the London Underground system, has been found in underground systems around the world. It is suggested that it may have adapted to human-made underground systems since the last century from local above-ground \"Culex pipiens\", although more recent evidence suggests that it is a southern mosquito variety related to \"Culex pipiens\" that has adapted to the warm underground spaces of northern cities.\n\nThe two species have very different behaviours, are extremely difficult to mate, and with different allele frequency, consistent with genetic drift during a founder event. More specifically, this mosquito, \"Culex pipiens molestus\", breeds all-year round, is cold intolerant, and bites rats, mice, and humans, in contrast to the above ground species \"Culex pipiens\" that is cold tolerant, hibernates in the winter, and bites only birds. When the two varieties were cross-bred the eggs were infertile suggesting reproductive isolation.\n\nThe genetic data indicates that the \"molestus\" form in the London Underground mosquito appears to have a common ancestry, rather than the population at each station being related to the nearest aboveground population (i.e. the \"pipiens\" form). Byrne and Nichols' working hypothesis was that adaptation to the underground environment had occurred locally in London only once. These widely separated populations are distinguished by very minor genetic differences, which suggest that the molestus form developed: a single mtDNA difference shared among the underground populations of ten Russian cities; a single fixed microsatellite difference in populations spanning Europe, Japan, Australia, the middle East and Atlantic islands.\n\nDebate exists determining when the isthmus of Panama closed. Much of the evidence supports a closure approximately 2.7 to 3.5 mya using \"...multiple lines of evidence and independent surveys\". However, a recent study suggests an earlier, transient bridge existed 13 to 15 mya. Regardless of the timing of the isthmus closer, biologists can study the species on the Pacific and Caribbean sides in, what has been called, \"one of the greatest natural experiments in evolution.\" Studies of snapping shrimp in the genus \"Alpheus\" have provided direct evidence of allopatric speciation events, and contributed to the literature concerning rates of molecular evolution. Phylogenetic reconstructions using \"multilocus datasets and coalescent-based analytical methods\" support the relationships of the species in the group and molecular clock techniques support the separation of 15 pairs of \"Alpheus\" species between 3 and 15 million years ago.\n\nThe botanist Verne Grant pioneered the field of plant speciation with his research and major publications on the topic. As stated before, many biologists rely on the biological species concept, with some modern researchers utilizing the phylogenetic species concept. Debate exists in the field concerning which framework should be applied in the research. Regardless, reproductive isolation is the primary role in the process of speciation and has been studied extensively by biologists in their respective disciplines.\n\nBoth hybridization and polyploidy have also been found to be major contributors to plant speciation. With the advent of molecular markers, \"hybridization [is] considerably more frequent than previously believed\". In addition to these two modes leading to speciation, pollinator preference and isolation, chromosomal rearrangements, and divergent natural selection have become critical to the speciation of plants. Furthermore, recent research suggests that sexual selection, epigenetic drivers, and the creation of incompatible allele combinations caused by balancing selection also contribute to the formation of new species. Instances of these modes have been researched in both the laboratory and in nature. Studies have also suggested that, due to \"the sessile nature of plants... [it increases] the relative importance of ecological speciation...\"\n\nHybridization between two different species sometimes leads to a distinct phenotype. This phenotype can also be fitter than the parental lineage and as such, natural selection may then favor these individuals. Eventually, if reproductive isolation is achieved, it may lead to a separate species. However, reproductive isolation between hybrids and their parents is particularly difficult to achieve and thus hybrid speciation is considered a rare event. However, hybridization resulting in reproductive isolation is considered an important means of speciation in plants, since polyploidy (having more than two copies of each chromosome) is tolerated in plants more readily than in animals.\n\nPolyploidy is important in hybrids as it allows reproduction, with the two different sets of chromosomes each being able to pair with an identical partner during meiosis. Polyploids also have more genetic diversity, which allows them to avoid inbreeding depression in small populations. Hybridization without change in chromosome number is called homoploid hybrid speciation. It is considered very rare but has been shown in \"Heliconius\" butterflies and sunflowers. Polyploid speciation, which involves changes in chromosome number, is a more common phenomenon, especially in plant species.\n\nPolyploidy is a mechanism that has caused many rapid speciation events in sympatry because offspring of, for example, tetraploid x diploid matings often result in triploid sterile progeny. Not all polyploids are reproductively isolated from their parental plants, and gene flow may still occur for example through triploid hybrid x diploid matings that produce tetraploids, or matings between meiotically unreduced gametes from diploids and gametes from tetraploids. It has been suggested that many of the existing plant and most animal species have undergone an event of polyploidization in their evolutionary history. Reproduction of successful polyploid species is sometimes asexual, by parthenogenesis or apomixis, as for unknown reasons many asexual organisms are polyploid. Rare instances of polyploid mammals are known, but most often result in prenatal death.\n\nResearchers consider reproductive isolation as key to speciation. A major aspect of speciation research is to determine the nature of the barriers that inhibit reproduction. Botanists often consider the zoological classifications of prezygotic and postzygotic barriers as inadequate. The examples provided below give insight into the process of speciation.\n\nThe creation of a new allopolyploid species of monkeyflower (\"Mimulus peregrinus\") was observed on the banks of the Shortcleuch Water—a river in Leadhills, South Lanarkshire, Scotland. Parented from the cross of the two species \"Mimulus guttatus\" (containing 14 pairs of chromosomes) and \"Mimulus luteus\" (containing 30-31 pairs from a chromosome duplication), \"M. peregrinus\" has six copies of its chromosomes (caused by the duplication of the sterile hybrid triploid). Due to the nature of these species, they have the ability to self-fertilize. Because of its number of chromosomes it is not able to pair with \"M. guttatus\", \"M. luteus\", or their sterile triploid offspring. \"M. peregrinus\" will either die, producing no offspring, or reproduce with itself effectively leading to a new species.\n\n\"Raphanobrassica\" includes all intergeneric hybrids between the genera \"Raphanus\" (radish) and \"Brassica\" (cabbages, etc.). The \"Raphanobrassica\" is an allopolyploid cross between the radish (\"Raphanus sativus\") and cabbage (\"Brassica oleracea\"). Plants of this parentage are now known as radicole. Two other fertile forms of \"Raphanobrassica\" are known. Raparadish, an allopolyploid hybrid between \"Raphanus sativus\" and \"Brassica rapa\" is grown as a fodder crop. \"Raphanofortii\" is the allopolyploid hybrid between \"Brassica tournefortii\" and \"Raphanus caudatus\". The \"Raphanobrassica\" is a fascinating plant, because (in spite of its hybrid nature), it is not sterile. This has led some botanists to propose that the accidental hybridization of a flower by pollen of another species in nature could be a mechanism of speciation common in higher plants.\n\nThe Welsh groundsel is an allopolyploid, a plant that contains sets of chromosomes originating from two different species. Its ancestor was \"Senecio × baxteri\", an infertile hybrid that can arise spontaneously when the closely related groundsel (\"Senecio vulgaris\") and Oxford ragwort (\"Senecio squalidus\") grow alongside each other. Sometime in the early 20th century, an accidental doubling of the number of chromosomes in an \"S. × baxteri\" plant led to the formation of a new fertile species.\n\nThe York groundsel (\"Senecio eboracensis\") is a hybrid species of the self-incompatible \"Senecio squalidus\" (also known as Oxford ragwort) and the self-compatible \"Senecio vulgaris\" (also known as common groundsel). Like \"S. vulgaris\", \"S. eboracensis\" is self-compatible; however, it shows little or no natural crossing with its parent species, and is therefore reproductively isolated, indicating that strong breed barriers exist between this new hybrid and its parents. It resulted from a backcrossing of the F1 hybrid of its parents to \"S. vulgaris\". \"S. vulgaris\" is native to Britain, while \"S. squalidus\" was introduced from Sicily in the early 18th century; therefore, \"S. eboracensis\" has speciated from those two species within the last 300 years.\n\nOther hybrids descended from the same two parents are known. Some are infertile, such as \"S.\" x \"baxteri\". Other fertile hybrids are also known, including \"S. vulgaris\" var. \"hibernicus\", now common in Britain, and the allohexaploid \"S. cambrensis\", which according to molecular evidence probably originated independently at least three times in different locations. Morphological and genetic evidence support the status of \"S. eboracensis\" as separate from other known hybrids.\n\nKirsten Bomblies et al. from the Max Planck Institute for Developmental Biology discovered two genes in the thale cress plant, \"Arabidopsis thaliana\". When both genes are inherited by an individual, it ignites a reaction in the hybrid plant that turns its own immune system against it. In the parents, the genes were not detrimental, but they evolved separately to react defectively when combined. To test this, Bomblies crossed 280 genetically different strains of \"Arabidopsis\" in 861 distinct ways and found that 2 percent of the resulting hybrids were necrotic. Along with allocating the same indicators, the 20 plants also shared a comparable collection of genetic activity in a group of 1,080 genes. In almost all of the cases, Bomblies discovered that only two genes were required to cause the autoimmune response. Bomblies looked at one hybrid in detail and found that one of the two genes belonged to the NB-LRR class, a common group of disease resistance genes involved in recognizing new infections. When Bomblies removed the problematic gene, the hybrids developed normally. Over successive generations, these incompatibilities could create divisions between different plant strains, reducing their chances of successful mating and turning distinct strains into separate species.\n\n\"Tragopogon\" is one example where hybrid speciation has been observed. In the early 20th century, humans introduced three species of salsify into North America. These species, the western salsify (\"Tragopogon dubius\"), the meadow salsify (\"Tragopogon pratensis\"), and the oyster plant (\"Tragopogon porrifolius\"), are now common weeds in urban wastelands. In the 1950s, botanists found two new species in the regions of Idaho and Washington, where the three already known species overlapped. One new species, \"Tragopogon miscellus\", is a tetraploid hybrid of \"T. dubius\" and \"T. pratensis\". The other new species, \"Tragopogon mirus\", is also an allopolyploid, but its ancestors were \"T. dubius\" and \"T. porrifolius\". These new species are usually referred to as \"the Ownbey hybrids\" after the botanist who first described them. The \"T. mirus\" population grows mainly by reproduction of its own members, but additional episodes of hybridization continue to add to the \"T. mirus\" population.\n\n\"T. dubius\" and \"T. pratensis\" mated in Europe but were never able to hybridize. A study published in March 2011 found that when these two plants were introduced to North America in the 1920s, they mated and doubled the number of chromosomes in there hybrid \"Tragopogon miscellus\" allowing for a \"reset\" of its genes, which in turn, allows for greater genetic variation. Professor Doug Soltis of the University of Florida said, \"We caught evolution in the act…New and diverse patterns of gene expression may allow the new species to rapidly adapt in new environments\". This observable event of speciation through hybridization further advances the evidence for the common descent of organisms and the time frame in which the new species arose in its new environment. The hybridizations have been reproduced artificially in laboratories from 2004 to present day.\n\nThe bird species, \"Sylvia atricapilla\", commonly referred to as blackcaps, lives in Germany and flies southwest to Spain while a smaller group flies northwest to Great Britain during the winter. Gregor Rolshausen from the University of Freiburg found that the genetic separation of the two populations is already in progress. The differences found have arisen in about 30 generations. With DNA sequencing, the individuals can be assigned to a correct group with an 85% accuracy. Stuart Bearhop from the University of Exeter reported that birds wintering in England tend to mate only among themselves, and not usually with those wintering in the Mediterranean. It is still inference to say that the populations will become two different species, but researchers expect it due to the continued genetic and geographic separation.\n\nThe shortfin molly (\"Poecilia mexicana\") is a small fish that lives in the Sulfur Caves of Mexico. Years of study on the species have found that two distinct populations of mollies—the dark interior fish and the bright surface water fish—are becoming more genetically divergent. The populations have no obvious barrier separating the two; however, it was found that the mollies are hunted by a large water bug (\"Belostoma spp\"). Tobler collected the bug and both types of mollies, placed them in large plastic bottles, and put them back in the cave. After a day, it was found that, in the light, the cave-adapted fish endured the most damage, with four out of every five stab-wounds from the water bugs sharp mouthparts. In the dark, the situation was the opposite. The mollies' senses can detect a predator's threat in their own habitats, but not in the other ones. Moving from one habitat to the other significantly increases the risk of dying. Tobler plans on further experiments, but believes that it is a good example of the rise of a new species.\n\nNatural selection, geographic isolation, and speciation in progress are illustrated by the relationship between the polar bear (\"Ursus maritimus\") and the brown bear (\"Ursus arctos\"). Considered separate species throughout their ranges; however, it has been documented that they possess the capability to interbreed and produce fertile offspring. This introgressive hybridization has occurred both in the wild and in captivity and has been documented and verified with DNA testing. The oldest known fossil evidence of polar bears dates around 130,000 to 110,000 years ago; however, molecular data has revealed varying estimates of divergence time. Mitochondrial DNA analysis has given an estimate of 150,000 years ago while nuclear genome analysis has shown an approximate divergence of 603,000 years ago. Recent research using the complete genomes (rather than mtDNA or partial nuclear genomes) establishes the divergence of polar and brown bears between 479-343 thousand years ago. Despite the differences in divergence rates, molecular research suggests the sister species have undergone a highly complex process of speciation and admixture between the two.\n\nPolar bears have acquired significant anatomical and physiological differences from the brown bear that allow it to comfortably survive in conditions that the brown bear likely could not. Notable examples include the ability to swim sixty miles or more at a time in freezing waters, fur that blends with the snow, and to stay warm in the arctic environment, an elongated neck that makes it easier to keep their heads above water while swimming, and oversized and heavy-matted webbed feet that act as paddles when swimming. It has also evolved small papillae and vacuole-like suction cups on the soles to make them less likely to slip on the ice, alongside smaller ears for a reduction of heat loss, eyelids that act like sunglasses, accommodations for their all-meat diet, a large stomach capacity to enable opportunistic feeding, and the ability to fast for up to nine months while recycling their urea. This example presents a macro-evolutionary change involving an amalgamation of several fields of evolutionary biology, e.g. adaptation through natural selection, geographic isolation, speciation, and hybridization.\n\nAnimal coloration provided important early evidence for evolution by natural selection, at a time when little direct evidence was available. Three major functions of coloration were discovered in the second half of the 19th century, and subsequently used as evidence of selection: camouflage (protective coloration); mimicry, both Batesian and Müllerian; and aposematism. After the circumstantial evidence provided by Darwin in \"On the Origin of Species\", and given the absence of mechanisms for genetic variation or heredity at that time, naturalists including Darwin's contemporaries, Henry Walter Bates and Fritz Müller sought evidence from what they could observe in the field.\n\nBates and Müller described forms of mimicry that now carry their names, based on their observations of tropical butterflies. These highly specific patterns of coloration are readily explained by natural selection, since predators such as birds which hunt by sight will more often catch and kill insects that are less good mimics of distasteful models than those that are better mimics; but the patterns are otherwise hard to explain. Darwinists such as Alfred Russel Wallace and Edward Bagnall Poulton, and in the 20th century Hugh Cott and Bernard Kettlewell, sought evidence that natural selection was taking place.\n\nIn 1889, Wallace noted that snow camouflage, especially plumage and pelage that changed with the seasons, suggested an obvious explanation as an adaptation for concealment. Poulton's 1890 book, \"The Colours of Animals\", written during Darwinism's lowest ebb, used all the forms of coloration to argue the case for natural selection. Cott described many kinds of camouflage, mimicry and warning coloration in his 1940 book \"Adaptive Coloration in Animals\", and in particular his drawings of coincident disruptive coloration in frogs convinced other biologists that these deceptive markings were products of natural selection. Kettlewell experimented on peppered moth evolution, showing that the species had adapted as pollution changed the environment; this provided compelling evidence of Darwinian evolution.\n\nComputer science allows the iteration of self-changing complex systems to be studied, allowing a mathematical understanding of the nature of the processes behind evolution; providing evidence for the hidden causes of known evolutionary events. The evolution of specific cellular mechanisms like spliceosomes that can turn the cell's genome into a vast workshop of billions of interchangeable parts that can create tools that create tools that create tools that create us can be studied for the first time in an exact way.\n\n\"It has taken more than five decades, but the electronic computer is now powerful enough to simulate evolution\", assisting bioinformatics in its attempt to solve biological problems.\n\nComputational evolutionary biology has enabled researchers to trace the evolution of a large number of organisms by measuring changes in their DNA, rather than through physical taxonomy or physiological observations alone. It has compared entire genomes permitting the study of more complex evolutionary events, such as gene duplication, horizontal gene transfer, and the prediction of factors important in speciation. It has also helped build complex computational models of populations to predict the outcome of the system over time and track and share information on an increasingly large number of species and organisms.\n\nFuture endeavors are to reconstruct a now more complex tree of life.\n\nChristoph Adami, a professor at the Keck Graduate Institute made this point in \"Evolution of biological complexity\":\n\nDavid J. Earl and Michael W. Deem—professors at Rice University made this point in \"Evolvability is a selectable trait\":\n\n\"Computer simulations of the evolution of linear sequences have demonstrated the importance of recombination of blocks of sequence rather than point mutagenesis alone. Repeated cycles of point mutagenesis, recombination, and selection should allow \"in vitro\" molecular evolution of complex sequences, such as proteins.\" Evolutionary molecular engineering, also called directed evolution or \"in vitro\" molecular evolution involves the iterated cycle of mutation, multiplication with recombination, and selection of the fittest of individual molecules (proteins, DNA, and RNA). Natural evolution can be relived showing us possible paths from catalytic cycles based on proteins to based on RNA to based on DNA.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "916219", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=916219", "title": "Fazlur Rahman Malik", "text": "Fazlur Rahman Malik\n\nFazlur Rahman Malik () (September 21, 1919 – July 26, 1988), generally known as Fazlur Rahman, was a modernist scholar and philosopher of Islam from today's Pakistan. He is renowned as a prominent liberal reformer of Islam, who devoted himself to educational reform and the revival of independent reasoning (\"ijtihad\"). His works are subject of widespread interest in countries such as Pakistan, Malaysia, Indonesia and Turkey.\n\nAfter teaching in Britain and Canada, he was appointed head of the Central Institute of Islamic Research of Pakistan in 1963. Although his works were widely respected by other Islamic reformers, they were also heavily criticized by conservative scholars as being overtly liberal. This was quickly exploited by opponents of his political paymaster, General Ayub Khan, and led to his eventual exile in the United States. He left Pakistan in 1968 for the United States where he taught at the University of California, Los Angeles and the University of Chicago.\n\nRahman was born in the Hazara District of the North West Frontier Province (now Khyber Pakhtunkhwa) of British India (now Pakistan). His father, Maulana Shihab al-Din, was a well-known scholar of the time who had studied at Deoband and had achieved the rank of alim, through his studies of Islamic law, prophetic narrations, Quran'ic commentaries, logic, philosophy and other subjects.\n\nRahman studied Arabic at Punjab University, and went on to Oxford University, where he wrote a dissertation on Ibn Sina. Afterwards, he began a teaching career, first at Durham University, where he taught Persian and Islamic philosophy, and then at McGill University, where he taught Islamic studies until 1961.\n\nIn that year, he returned to Pakistan at the behest of President Ayub Khan to head up the Central Institute of Islamic Research in Karachi which was set up by the Pakistani government in order to implement Islam into the daily dealings of the nation. However, due to the political situation in Pakistan, Rahman was hindered from making any progress in this endeavour. Orthodox ulema opposed his modernist interpretations and after Ayub Khan's power weakened, they denounced Rahman as an apostate and called for his death as a wajib ul qatl. He resigned from the post in September 1968 and left for the United States.\n\nIn the US he returned to teaching, and taught at UCLA as a visiting professor for a year. He moved to the University of Chicago in 1969 and established himself there becoming the Harold H. Swift Distinguished Service Professor of Islamic Thought. At Chicago he was instrumental for building a strong Near Eastern Studies program that continues to be among the best in the world. Rahman also became a proponent for a reform of the Islamic polity and was an advisor to the State Department. Rahman died in Chicago, Illinois July 26, 1988 at the University of Chicago Medical Center from complications of coronary bypass surgery. A resident of suburban Naperville, Illinois at his death, he is buried in Arlington Cemetery, Elmhurst, Illinois.\n\nSince Rahman's death his writings have continued to be popular among scholars of Islam and the Near East. His contributions to the University of Chicago are still evident in its excellent programs in these areas. In his memory, the Center for Middle Eastern Studies at the University of Chicago named its common area after him, due to his many years of service at the Center and at the University of Chicago at large.\n\nHe was a polyglot who, apart from mastering Urdu, Persian, Arabic and English quite early in his life, eventually also learned classical Greek, Latin, German and French in order to be more efficient in his academic career.\n\nHe argued that the basis of Islamic revival was the return to the intellectual dynamism that was the hallmark of the Islamic scholarly tradition (these ideas are outlined in \"Revival and Reform in Islam: A Study of Islamic Fundamentalism\" and his magnum opus, \"Islam\"). He sought to give philosophy free rein, and was keen on Muslims appreciating how the modern nation-state understood law, as opposed to ethics; his view being that the shari'ah was a mixture of both ethics and law. He was critical of historical Muslim theologies and philosophies for failing to create a moral and ethical worldview based on the values derived from the Qur'an: 'moral values', unlike socioeconomic values, 'are not exhausted at any point in history' but require constant interpretation.\n\nHe also believed that the modern conservatism of Islamic world is a defensive and temporary posture against the perceived political and economic setbacks of the Muslim world. Adding to this was stagnation in Islamic education begun in the early Middle Ages, which led to the inadequate understanding of Qur'anic teachings.\n\nThe issue of what is \"riba\" and whether it includes all interest on loans has been a major issue in Islam during the 20th century and early 21st. The Islamic revival movement that grew in strength and influence during Rahman's lifetime, considered all and any interest on loans \"riba\" and a \"curse\", and considered putting an end to it a top priority. As an Islamic Modernist, Rahman disagreed, believing that only high-interest loans were \"riba\", and in particularly that \"riba\" referred only to a particular type of interest charged in the time of Muhammad. He cited the \"Muwatta\" of Imam Malik in arguing that \"riba\" should not be interpreted literally but must be understood in the context of pre-Islamic Arab moneylending customs. Feisal Khan describes his position as being that \nThe banned \"riba\" in the Quran referred to a particular custom, \"riba al-nasiah\" or \"riba al-jahaliyah\", where when the debt came due it was traditional to ask the borrower `will you pay or will you \"riba\"?` If the borrower chose the latter, he would be granted an extension on the loan but the amount due would be doubled -- hense the \"riba\". ... If the borrower then defaulted on the doubled amount, his debt was redoubled and he was given another time extension: if unable to pay, he and all his possessions could be auctioned off to satisfy his creditors.Rahman himself wrote that the initial interest itself was not usurious and was, therefore, not considered riba. What made it riba was the increase ... that raised the principal several-fold by continued redoubling.This contradicted the contention of famous Islamist author Maulana Maududi that there was no initial interest—that money lenders made initial loans \"granted free of interest\"—which was doubtful on the grounds that professional moneylenders would ever make loans for free. Rahman concluded that the Quran banned \"extreme usury and so by extension injustice but not interest.\"\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3797870", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3797870", "title": "Frithjof Bergmann", "text": "Frithjof Bergmann\n\nFrithjof Bergmann (born 24 December 1930) is a Professor Emeritus of philosophy at the University of Michigan, where he has taught courses on existentialism and Continental philosophy.\n\nFrithjof Bergmann first came to the US as a student, where he has lived and worked ever since. He entered the doctoral program in philosophy at Princeton University and studied under Walter Kaufmann, receiving his Ph.D. in 1959 with a dissertation entitled \"Harmony and Reason: an Introduction to the Philosophy of Hegel.\" In addition, Professor Bergmann is a Nietzsche scholar; his publications include \"Nietzsche's Critique of Morality\" (published in \"Reading Nietzsche\", Oxford University Press, 1988). He spent most of his academic career at the University of Michigan, where he was a professor and visible political activist. He taught also at The University of California, Berkeley, Stanford University and The University of California, Santa Cruz. Among his more notable PhD students at the University of Michigan were Robert C. Solomon and Anthony Weston. He is credited as one of the creators of the teach-in, the first of which was held on the Michigan campus in March 1965.\n\nFrithjof Bergmann's interests include continental philosophyespecially Hegel, Nietzsche, Sartre, and Existentialism generallyand also social and political philosophy, philosophical anthropology, and philosophy of culture. His article \"The Experience of Values\" (reprinted in \"Revisions: Changing Perspectives in Moral Philosophy\" by University of Notre Dame Press, 1983) is used in universities throughout the world. His book \"On Being Free\" (1977) was issued in a paperback edition in 1978. In this book, Bergmann argues against the standard views of freedom as the lack of external obstacles or as an irrational, unencumbered act that rejects all order. Both of these leave us with nothing substantial for a self at alland thus, he suggests, constitute virtually a \"reductio ad absurdum\" of modern ideals of education, society, and the family. Instead, he argues that the primary prerequisite of freedom is a self possessed of something that wants to be acted out. An act is free, he argues, if the agent identifies with the elements from which it flows. The real problems of education, society, etc. are those of coming to a true understanding of one’s self and of building a society with which a self can identify.\n\nIn 1984, Bergmann founded an organisation called the Center for New Work (sometimes called just New Work) in Flint, Michigan. Together with others he formulated a novel proposal that became known as the \"6 months--6 months proposal.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31332144", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31332144", "title": "Ganbaru", "text": "Ganbaru\n\n, also romanized as gambaru, is a ubiquitous Japanese word which roughly means to slog on tenaciously through tough times.\n\nThe word \"Ganbaru\" is often translated to mean \"doing one’s best\", but in practice, it means doing more than one's best. The word emphasizes \"working with perseverance\" or \"toughing it out.\"\n\n\"Ganbaru\" means \"to commit oneself fully to a task and to bring that task to an end.\" It can be translated to mean persistence, tenacity, doggedness and hard work. The term has a unique importance in Japanese culture.\n\nThe New York Times said of Shoichi Yokoi, the Japanese holdout who surrendered in Guam in January 1972, that in Japan \"even those embarrassed by his constant references to the Emperor felt a measure of admiration at his determination and \"ganbaru\" spirit.\" After the 1995 Kobe earthquake, the slogan \"\"Gambaro Kobe\" was used to encourage the people of the disaster region as they worked to rebuild their city and their lives. After the 2011 Tōhoku earthquake and tsunami, \"gambaru\"\" was one of the most commonly heard expressions.\n\n\"Gambaru\" focuses attention on the importance of finishing a task and never stopping until a goal is achieved. The continuing effort to overcome obstacles (even if not successful) is an important concept in Japan.\n\nUnlike the related, but passive gaman, \"ganbaru\" is an active process.\n\nAlthough there are many near synonyms in Japanese, there are few antonyms.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7728554", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7728554", "title": "Gottlob Ernst Schulze", "text": "Gottlob Ernst Schulze\n\nGottlob Ernst Schulze (; 23 August 1761 – 14 January 1833) was a German philosopher, born in Heldrungen (modern-day Thuringia, Germany). He was the grandfather of the pioneering biochemist Ernst Schulze. \n\nSchulze was a professor at Wittenberg, Helmstedt, and Göttingen. His most influential book was \"Aenesidemus\" (1792), a skeptical polemic against Immanuel Kant's \"Critique of Pure Reason\" and Karl Leonhard Reinhold's \"Philosophy of the Elements\".\n\nIn Göttingen, he advised his student Arthur Schopenhauer to concentrate on the philosophies of Plato and Kant. This advice had a strong influence on Schopenhauer's philosophy. In the winter semester of 1810 and 1811, Schopenhauer studied both psychology and metaphysics under Schulze.\n\nSchulze died in Göttingen.\n\n"}
{"id": "2421624", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2421624", "title": "Hamiltonian economic program", "text": "Hamiltonian economic program\n\nThe Hamiltonian economic program was the set of measures that were proposed by American Founding Father and 1st Secretary of the Treasury Alexander Hamilton in four notable reports and implemented by Congress during George Washington's first administration. These reports outlined a coherent program of national mercantilism government-assisted economic development.\n\n"}
{"id": "1734938", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1734938", "title": "Herbert Feigl", "text": "Herbert Feigl\n\nHerbert Feigl (; ; December 14, 1902 – June 1, 1988) was an Austrian philosopher and a member of the Vienna Circle.\n\nThe son of a weaver, Feigl was born in Reichenberg (Liberec), Bohemia into a Jewish family and matriculated at the University of Vienna in 1922. He studied physics and philosophy under Moritz Schlick, the founder of the Vienna Circle, and received his doctorate in 1927 for the essay \"Chance and Law: An Epistemological Analysis of the Roles of Probability and Induction in the Natural Sciences.\" He published his first book, \"Theory and Experience in Physics\", in 1929. During this time, became an active member in the Vienna Circle. He was one of the few Circle members (along with Schlick and Friedrich Waismann) to have extensive conversations with Ludwig Wittgenstein and Karl Popper.\n\nIn 1930, on an International Rockefeller Foundation scholarship at Harvard University, Feigl met the physicist Percy Williams Bridgman, the philosopher Willard Van Orman Quine, and the psychologist Stanley Smith Stevens, all of whom he saw as kindred spirits. In a 1931 paper with Albert Blumberg, \"Logical Positivism: A New European Movement,\" he argued for logical positivism to be renamed \"logical empiricism\" based upon certain realist differences between contemporary philosophy of science and the older positivist movement.\n\nIn 1931, Feigl married Maria Kaspar and emigrated with her to the United States, settling in Iowa to take up a position in the philosophy department at the University of Iowa. Their son, Eric Otto, was born in 1933. In 1940, Herbert Feigl accepted a position as professor of philosophy at the University of Minnesota, where he remained for 31 years. His close professional and personal relationship with Wilfrid Sellars produced many different collaborative projects, including the textbook \"Readings in Philosophical Analysis\" and the journal \"Philosophical Studies\", which he and Sellars founded in 1949. In 1953, with a grant from the Hill Foundation, he established the Minnesota Center for Philosophy of Science. He was appointed Regents Professor of the University of Minnesota in 1967.\n\nHe believed that empiricism is the only adequate philosophy for experimental science. Though he became a philosopher instead of a chemist, he never lost the perspective, and the scientific commonsense, of a practical scientist. He was one of the signers of the Humanist Manifesto. and he was, in the paradigmatic sense, a philosopher of science.\nFeigl retired in 1971 and died of cancer on June 1, 1988 in Minneapolis.\n\n"}
{"id": "2981213", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2981213", "title": "History of Political Philosophy", "text": "History of Political Philosophy\n\nHistory of Political Philosophy is a textbook edited by American political philosophers Leo Strauss and Joseph Cropsey. The book is intended primarily to introduce undergraduate students of political science to political philosophy. It is currently in its third edition.\n\nSome of the notable contributors include: Leo Strauss, Allan Bloom, Ralph Lerner, Muhsi Mahdi, James E. Holton, Joseph Cropsey, Harvey Mansfield, and Pierre Hassner. Some of the subjects in the volume include: Plato, Aristotle, Cicero, St. Augustine of Hippo, Alfarabi, Moses Maimonides, Niccolò Machiavelli, Martin Luther, Thomas Hobbes, René Descartes, John Locke, Adam Smith, Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel, Alexis de Tocqueville, Karl Marx, Friedrich Nietzsche, Martin Heidegger, and Leo Strauss.\n\n"}
{"id": "19518543", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19518543", "title": "International Association for Philosophy and Literature", "text": "International Association for Philosophy and Literature\n\nThe International Association for Philosophy and Literature (IAPL), founded in 1976 by Hugh J. Silverman, brought together thinkers and scholars working in a wide range of disciplines concerned with the study of philosophical, historical, critical, and theoretical issues. The IAPL was dedicated to the exchange of ideas and to the enhancement of scholarly research in the arts and the humanities. The IAPL provided an opportunity to engage in discussion at the intersections of philosophical, literary, cultural, textual, visual, medial, art, and aesthetic theories. With its focus on interdisciplinary topics and commitments, the IAPL played a role in the articulation of vital and exciting recent developments in philosophy, literature, and the arts.\n\nSince Hugh J. Silverman's death in 2013* Obituary, the IAPL has continued as an organization and has published volumes related to previous conferences but has, until 2018, refrained from organizing conferences. In 2018 the IAPL relaunched as The Association for Philosophy and Literature (APL).\n\nAnnual APL conferences provide opportunities for dialogue and strategic readings, the articulation of contemporary themes and ideas, the exploration of various expressive arts, and the production of new theoretical discourses.\n\nThe 1st annual conference as APL, on \"Truth Fiction Illusion - Worlds and Experience,\" will be held at Alpen-Adria-Universität, Klagenfurt, Austria, 29 May - 2 June, 2019.\n\nRecent conference themes and locations include:\n\nSome past keynote or plenary speakers have included: Rosi Braidotti, Pheng Cheah, Jacques Derrida, Steve Dixon, Peter Eisenman, Frank Gehry, Peter Greenaway, Sneja Gunew, Steven Holl, Dominique Janicaud, Alphonso Lingis, Mario Perniola, Jacques Rancière, Stelarc, Slavoj Žižek\n\nMembership in the APL includes access to conference programs, special discounts on conference registration fees and at conference hotels, receipt of various APL brochures and publications, the Bibliography of Books Published by APL Members, the opportunity to submit a conference paper, and the support of an extensive range of useful information made available on the APL website. Membership also includes a free book from the ongoing \"Textures\" series consisting of uniquely focused volumes of essays derived from previous IAPL/APL\nconferences.\n\nThe IAPL in concert with established publishers produces volumes resulting from its annual conferences. These books are fully edited, shaped, and recast as in-depth studies of a given topic with some of the major contributors to a particular IAPL conference.\nEssays are selected for their development of aspects of the volume theme and for lasting value. The Textures: Philosophy / Literature / Culture Series was edited by Hugh J. Silverman, IAPL Executive Editor. The role of Executive Editor has been taken over by John W P Phillips since 2013. Each volume is edited typically by the conference host coordinator(s). Members can select one of the current volumes as part of their membership benefits each year.\n\nRecent volumes include:\n\n\n\nThe APL website includes details concerning upcoming conferences, past events, submission forms, and services provided by the APL. All of the most current information, arrangements for lodging, travel, and related concerns in connection with APL conferences is posted as soon as it is available. Both past and current conference programs are also accessible from the website.\n\nThe Association for Philosophy and Literature is organized by the Executive Committee: Gary Aylesworth, Peter Gratton, John W P Phillips (Chair) and Gertrude Postl\n"}
{"id": "517371", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=517371", "title": "Jesus and the woman taken in adultery", "text": "Jesus and the woman taken in adultery\n\nJesus and the woman taken in adultery (or Pericope Adulterae , Pericope de Adultera) is a passage (pericope) found in the Gospel of John 7:53–8:11, that has been the subject of much scholarly discussion.\n\nIn the passage, Jesus has sat down in the temple to teach some of the people, after he spent the previous night at the Mount of Olives. A group of scribes and Pharisees confront Jesus, interrupting his teaching session. They bring in a woman, accusing her of committing adultery, claiming she was caught in the very act. They ask Jesus whether the punishment for someone like her should be stoning, as prescribed by Mosaic Law. Jesus first ignores the interruption and writes on the ground as though he does not hear them. But when the woman's accusers continue their challenge, he states that the one who is without sin is the one who should cast the first stone. The accusers and congregants depart, leaving Jesus alone with the woman. Jesus asks the woman if anyone has condemned her. She answers that no one has condemned her. Jesus says that he, too, does not condemn her, and tells her to go and sin no more.\n\nAlthough nothing in the story contradicts anything else in the Gospels, many analysts of the Greek text and manuscripts of the Gospel of John have argued that it was \"certainly not part of the original text of St. John's Gospel.\" The Jerusalem Bible claims \"the author of this passage is not John\". Leo the Great (bishop of Rome, or Pope, from 440–61), cited the passage in his 62nd Sermon, mentioning that Jesus said \"to the adulteress who was brought to him, ‘Neither will I condemn you; go and sin no more.'\" In the early 400s, Saint Augustine used the passage extensively, and from his writings, it is also clear that his contemporary Faustus (considered by many to be a heretic) also used it.\n\nThe Council of Trent, held between 1545 and 1563, declared that the Latin Vulgate (the Gospels of which were produced by Jerome in 383, based on Greek manuscripts which Jerome considered ancient at that time, and which contains the passage) was authentic and authoritative. In terms of simple quantities, 1,495 Greek manuscripts include the pericope adulterae (or part of it, supporting the inclusion of the passage as a whole), and 267 do not include it. Among those 267, however, are some manuscripts which are exceptionally early and which most textual analysts consider the most important.\n\nThe subject of Jesus' writing on the ground was fairly common in art, especially from the Renaissance onwards, with examples by artists including those by Pieter Bruegel and Rembrandt. There was a medieval tradition, originating in a comment attributed to Ambrose, that the words written were \"terra terram accusat\" (\"earth accuses earth\"; a reference to the end of verse Genesis 3:19: \"for dust you are and to dust you will return\"), which is shown in some depictions in art, for example, the \"Codex Egberti\". This is very probably a matter of guesswork based on Jeremiah 17:13. There have been other speculations about what Jesus wrote.\n\n in the New Revised Standard Version:\n\nThis episode, and its message of mercy and forgiveness balanced with a call to holy living, have endured in Christian thought. Both \"let him who is without sin, cast the first stone\" and \"go, and sin no more\" have found their way into common usage. The English idiomatic phrase to \"\" is derived from this passage.\n\nThe passage has been taken as confirmation of Jesus' ability to write, otherwise only suggested by implication in the Gospels, but the word \"εγραφεν\" in John 8:8 could mean \"draw\" as well as \"write\".\n\n states:\n\nIn this passage and also in , \"death is fixed as the penalty of adultery\", applicable to both the man and the woman concerned. However, \"\"stoning\" as the form of death is only specified when a betrothed virgin is violated\".\n\nA common tradition and Christian theological belief held that the woman caught in adultery was Jesus's female disciple Mary Magdalene. Catholic houses for reformed prostitutes and women pregnant outside of marriage were often given the name Magdalene asylum or were specifically dedicated to the saint's care. \n\nPart of this belief stemmed from the fact that Mary Magdalene was reported to have financially supported Jesus, but was listed as neither widowed nor married nor a mother, unlike most of Jesus's other female followers, and the conclusion was that the only way an unmarried, unwidowed, childless woman in such a society could have access to such money was through prostitution. Such a woman would thus likely engage in prostitution with married men, and hence commit adultery. This gave the romantic notion that Jesus, in refusing to condemn Mary Magdalene to death, earns her loyalty and following. It is also stated in the gospels that Jesus dined with prostitutes and tax collectors in an attempt to reform them, and thus Mary Magdalene, the reformed prostitute, becomes the symbolic counterpart to St. Matthew, the reformed tax collector. \n\nAnother reason is that Mary Magdalene is a key witness to the resurrection in John's gospel, being the first human to actually witness the resurrected Jesus Christ. Theologically, being a prostitute redeemed by Jesus personally would give her greater standing to be the first witness, as it would emphasize redemption and forgiveness; otherwise, Jesus choosing Mary Magdalene to be his first witness seems arbitrary, as she exhibited neither greater faith nor greater redemption than the other disciples (such as Peter and John).\n\nHowever, in current times the belief has come under scrutiny, as there is no direct linking of Mary Magdalene and the woman caught in adultery by the Biblical authors.\n\nThe pericope is not found in most of the early Greek Gospel manuscripts. It is not in P or in P, both of which have been assigned to the late 100s or early 200s, nor in two important manuscripts produced in the early/mid 300s, Sinaiticus and Vaticanus. The first surviving Greek manuscript to contain the pericope is the Latin/Greek diglot Codex Bezae, produced in the 400s or 500s (but displaying a form of text which has affinities with \"Western\" readings used in the 100s and 200s). Codex Bezae is also the earliest surviving Latin manuscript to contain it. Out of 23 Old Latin manuscripts of John 7–8, seventeen contain at least part of the pericope, and represent at least three transmission-streams in which it was included.\n\nAccording to Eusebius of Caesarea (in his \"Ecclesiastical History\", composed in the early 300s), Papias (circa AD 110) refers to a story of Jesus and a woman \"accused of many sins\" as being found in the Gospel of the Hebrews, which might refer to this passage or to one like it. In the Syriac Didascalia Apostolorum, composed in the mid-200s, the author, in the course of instructing bishops to exercise a measure of clemency, states that a bishop who does not receive a repentant person would be doing wrong – \"for you do not obey our Savior and our God, to do as He also did with her that had sinned, whom the elders set before Him, and leaving the judgment in His hands, departed. But He, the searcher of hearts, asked her and said to her, 'Have the elders condemned thee, my daughter?' She said to Him, 'No, Lord.' And He said unto her, 'Go your way; neither do I condemn thee.' In Him therefore, our Savior and King and God, be your pattern, O bishops.\"\n\nThe \"Constitutions of the Holy Apostles\" Book II.24, composed c. 380, echoes the \"Didascalia Apostolorum\", alongside a utilization of Luke 7:47. Codex Fuldensis, which was produced in AD 546, and which, in the Gospels, features an unusual arrangement of the text that was found in an earlier document, contains the adulterae pericope, in the form in which it was written in the Vulgate. More significantly, Codex Fuldensis also preserves the chapter-headings of its earlier source-document (thought by some researchers to echo the Diatessaron produced by Tatian in the 170's), and the title of chapter #120 refers specifically to the woman taken in adultery.\n\nThe important codices L and Delta do not contain the pericope adulterae, but between John 7:52 and 8:12, each contains a distinct blank space, as a sort of memorial left by the scribe to signify remembrance of the absent passage.\n\nPacian of Barcelona (bishop from 365–391), in the course of making a rhetorical challenge, opposes cruelty as he sarcastically endorses it: \"O Novatians, why do you delay to ask an eye for an eye? ... Kill the thief. Stone the petulant. Choose not to read in the Gospel that the Lord spared even the adulteress who confessed, when none had condemned her.\" Pacian was a contemporary of the scribes who made Codex Sinaiticus.\n\nThe writer known as Ambrosiaster, c. 370/380, mentioned the occasion when Jesus \"spared her who had been apprehended in adultery.\" The unknown author of the composition \"Apologia David\" (thought by some analysts to be Ambrose, but more probably not) mentioned that people could be initially taken aback by the passage in which \"we see an adulteress presented to Christ and sent away without condemnation.\" Later in the same composition he referred to this episode as a \"lection\" in the Gospels, indicating that it was part of the annual cycle of readings used in the church-services.\nPeter Chrysologus, writing in Ravenna c. 450, clearly cited the pericope adulterae in his Sermon 115. Sedulius and Gelasius also clearly used the passage. Prosper of Aquitaine, and Quodvultdeus of Carthage, in the mid-400s, utilized the passage.\n\nA text called the Second Epistle of Pope Callistus section 6 contains a quote that may be from John 8:11 – \"Let him see to it that he sin no more, that the sentence of the Gospel may abide in him: \"Go, and sin no more.\"\" However this text also appears to quote from eighth-century writings and therefore is most likely spurious.\n\nUntil recently, it was thought that no Greek Church Father had taken note of the passage before the 1100s. However, in 1941 a large collection of the writings of Didymus the Blind (c. 313–398) was discovered in Egypt, in which Didymus states that \"We find in certain gospels\" an episode in which a woman was accused of a sin, and was about to be stoned, but Jesus intervened \"and said to those who were about to cast stones, ‘He who has not sinned, let him take a stone and throw it. If anyone is conscious in himself not to have sinned, let him take a stone and smite her.’ And no one dared,\" and so forth. This is far from a direct quotation, but it may be a loose summary of the episode. Barring the possibility that Didymus was referring to some other Gospel than the four-Gospel collection that was typically used in the churches in his time, this reference appears to establish that the passage was present in its usual place in some Greek manuscripts known in Alexandria and elsewhere from the 300s onwards.\n\nIn Codex Vaticanus, which was produced in the early 300s, perhaps in Egypt (or in Caesarea, by copyists using exemplars from Egypt), the text is marked at the end of John chapter 7 with an \"umlaut\" in the margin, indicating that an alternative reading was known at this point. (However, the date of these umlauts, or distigmai, is a matter of some debate.) This codex also has an umlaut alongside blank space following the end of the Gospel of John, which may convey that whoever added the umlaut was aware of additional text following the end of John 21 – which is where the pericope adulterae is found in the f-1 group of manuscripts.\n\nJerome, writing around 417, reports that the \"pericope adulterae\" was found in its usual place in \"many Greek and Latin manuscripts\" in Rome and the Latin West. This is confirmed by some Latin Fathers of the 300s and 400s, including Ambrose of Milan, and Augustine. The latter claimed that the passage may have been improperly excluded from some manuscripts in order to avoid the impression that Christ had sanctioned adultery:\n\nCertain persons of little faith, or rather enemies of the true faith, fearing, I suppose, lest their wives should be given impunity in sinning, removed from their manuscripts the Lord's act of forgiveness toward the adulteress, as if he who had said, Sin no more, had granted permission to sin.\n\nThe first to systematically apply the critical marks of the Alexandrian critics was Origen:\nEarly textual critics familiar with the use and meaning of these marks in classical Greek works like Homer, interpreted the signs to mean that the section (John 7:53–8:11) was an interpolation and not an original part of the Gospel.\n\nDuring the 16th century, Western European scholars – both Catholic and Protestant – sought to recover the most correct Greek text of the New Testament, rather than relying on the Vulgate Latin translation. At this time, it was noticed that a number of early manuscripts containing John's Gospel lacked John 7:53–8:11 inclusive; and also that some manuscripts containing the verses marked them with critical signs, usually a lemniscus or asterisk. It was also noted that, in the lectionary of the Greek church, the Gospel-reading for Pentecost runs from John 7:37 to 8:12, but skips over the twelve verses of this pericope.\n\nBeginning with Lachmann (in Germany, 1840), reservations about the pericope became more strongly argued in the modern period, and these opinions were carried into the English world by Samuel Davidson (1848–51), Tregelles (1862), and others; the argument against the verses being given body and final expression in Hort (1886). Those opposing the authenticity of the verses as part of John are represented in the 20th century by men like Cadbury (1917), Colwell (1935), and Metzger (1971).\n\nAccording to 19th-century text critics Henry Alford and F. H. A. Scrivener the passage was added by John in a second edition of the Gospel along with 5:3.4 and the 21st chapter.\n\nOn the other hand, a number of scholars have strongly defended the Johannine authorship of these verses. This group of critics is typified by such scholars as Nolan (1865), and Burgon (1886), and Hoskier (1920). More recently it has been defended by O.T. Fuller (1978), and is included in the Greek New Testaments compiled by Wilbur Pickering (1980/2014), Hodges & Farstad (1982/1985), and Robinson & Pierpont (2005). Rather than endorsing Augustine's theory that some men had removed the passage due to a concern that it would be used by their wives as a pretense to commit adultery, Burgon proposed (but did not develop in detail) a theory that the passage had been lost due to a misunderstanding of a feature in the lection-system of the early church.\n\nThe theory that the passage was original, but was lost due to its treatment in an early lection-cycle, explains not only its absence from some manuscripts, but also its appearance in the f-1 (Caesarean) group of manuscripts at the end of John, and its appearance in the f-13 group after Luke 21:38. The same mechanism accounts for the movement of the passage, in a smattering of manuscripts, to precede John 7:37, and (in a few others) to follow John 8:12.\n\nOne form of this theory is that at a very early date, an annual lection-cycle was developed for the major feast-days; in this lection-cycle, a specific segment of the Gospel of John was assigned to be read at Pentecost (which was celebrated by the Christian church from its beginning, having been adopted from Judaism): John 7:37–52, plus 8:12 (in order to close the reading on a positive note). This is still the form of the lection for Pentecost in the Byzantine lectionary-cycle, attested in hundreds of copies. In an early copy used by a lector (the person designated to read Scripture in early church-services), marks were added to signify that the reader was to stop at the end of 7:52, and skip to the beginning of 8:12. When a professional copyist, unfamiliar with the lection-cycle, used such a copy as his exemplar, he misunderstood the marks as if they meant that he, the copyist, should skip from the end of 7:52 to the beginning of 8:12, and thus the passage was dutifully skipped, and was lost, in a very influential transmission-line.\n\nAnother form of this theory is that a very early copyist, preparing a Gospels-codex for liturgical use, transplanted the section to the end of John as a practical step, so as to simplify the lector's task on Pentecost (so that the lector would not have to pause to find the final portion of the lection), and after the section was thus transplanted, it dropped out altogether from the Alexandrian transmission-line which is represented by the oldest manuscripts, and from related branches (including one which later yielded, or influenced, the Syriac Peshitta).\n\nThe transplantation of the passage, in a few manuscripts, to precede John 7:37, or to follow 8:12, is a scribal adaptation intended to simplify things for the lector by presenting the lection for Pentecost as one uninterrupted segment of text. Likwise, in the f-13 group of manuscripts, the pericope adulterae has been transplanted out of the Gospel of John, and has been placed at the end of Luke 21, so as to conveniently arrange the reading for Saint Pelagia's feast-day (October 8) near Luke 21:12–19, the lection for Saints Sergius and Bacchus (October 7). Inasmuch as all these movements of the passage are different effects of the lection-cycle, the complete absence of the passage, it is proposed, is just one more example of this phenomenon—albeit attested in manuscripts earlier than the earliest clear evidence of a lection-cycle in which this passage was read at Pentecost.\n\nDefenders of the genuineness of the passage have also noted the following:\n\nPalestinian Aramaic evidence clearly shows that before it was made, the pericope adulterae had been transferred to the end of the Gospel of John.\n\nAlmost all modern critical translations include the pericope adulterae at John 7:53–8:11 (exceptions being the New English Bible and Revised English Bible, which relocate it after the end of the Gospel); but most others enclose it in brackets, and/or add a footnote mentioning the absence of the passage in the oldest witnesses (NRSV, NJB, NIV, GNT, NASB).\n\nBishop J.B. Lightfoot wrote that absence of the passage from the earliest manuscripts, combined with the occurrence of stylistic characteristics atypical of John, together implied that the passage was an interpolation. Nevertheless, he considered the story to be authentic history. As a result, based on Eusebius' mention that the writings of Papias contained a story \"about a woman falsely accused before the Lord of many sins\" (H.E. 3.39), he argued that this section originally was part of Papias' \"Interpretations of the Sayings of the Lord\", and included it in his collection of Papias' fragments. Bart D. Ehrman concurs in \"Misquoting Jesus\", adding that the passage contains many words and phrases otherwise alien to John's writing.\n\nHowever, Michael W. Holmes has pointed out that it is not certain \"that Papias knew the story in precisely this form, inasmuch as it now appears that at least two independent stories about Jesus and a sinful woman circulated among Christians in the first two centuries of the church, so that the traditional form found in many New Testament manuscripts may well represent a conflation of two independent shorter, earlier versions of the incident.\" Kyle R. Hughes has argued that one of these earlier versions is in fact very similar in style, form, and content to the Lukan special material (the so-called \"L\" source), suggesting that the core of this tradition is in fact rooted in very early Christian (though not Johannine) memory.\n\nThere is clear reference to the pericope adulterae in the primitive Christian church in the Syriac Didascalia Apostolorum. (II,24,6; ed. Funk I, 93.)\nZane C. Hodges and Arthur L. Farstad argue for Johannine authorship of the pericope. They suggest there are points of similarity between the pericope's style and the style of the rest of the gospel. They claim that the details of the encounter fit very well into the context of the surrounding verses. They argue that the pericope's appearance in the majority of manuscripts, if not in the oldest ones, is evidence of its authenticity.\n\nBoth \"Novum Testamentum Graece\" (NA27) and the United Bible Societies (UBS4) provide critical text for the pericope, but mark this off with <nowiki></nowiki>double brackets, indicating that the pericope is regarded as a later addition to the text.\nHowever, UBS4 rates its reconstruction of the \"wording\" of the pericope as { A }, meaning \"virtually certain\" to reflect the original text of the \"addition\". (In NA28, however, a reading in Second Peter 2:18 that had been ranked \"A\" (\"virtually certain\") was rejected and replaced with a rival reading.)\n\nThe pericope was never read as a part of the lesson for the Pentecost cycle, but John 8:3–8:11 was reserved for the festivals of such saints as Theodora, September 18, or Pelagia, October 8.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25409434", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25409434", "title": "Joy's law (management)", "text": "Joy's law (management)\n\nIn management, Joy's law is the principle that \"no matter who you are, most of the smartest people work for someone else,” attributed to Sun Microsystems co-founder Bill Joy. Joy was prompted to state this observation through his dislike of Bill Gates' view of \"Microsoft as an IQ monopolist.\" He argued that, instead, \"It's better to create an ecology that gets all the world’s smartest people toiling in your garden for your goals. If you rely solely on your own employees, you’ll never solve all your customers' needs.\" Core to this principle is the definition of smart within the context of the quotation. Smart \"refers to capability but not willingness to work for someone.\" Furthermore, \"the fact that you are smart for one company does not make you smart for another.\" \"Richard Pettinger, Director of Information Management for Business, UCL\" The law highlights an essential problem that is faced by many modern businesses, \"that in any given sphere of activity most of the pertinent knowledge will reside outside the boundaries of any one organization, and the central challenge [is] to find ways to access that knowledge.\"\n\nIn computing, the same Bill Joy devised a simple mathematical function regarding the increase in microprocessor speed over time which is also referred to as Joy's Law.\n\nFriedrich Hayek, an economist and philosopher known for his defense of classical liberalism, observed that “knowledge is unevenly distributed.” The ‘knowledge’ that Hayek refers to is the knowledge that the ‘smartest people’ possess in Joy’s law.\nHayek states that the problem of a rational economic order is because knowledge that we wish to grasp never exists in a “concentrated or integrated form but solely as the dispersed bits of incomplete and frequently contradictory knowledge which all the separate individuals possess.” In other words, it is impossible to aggregate all the knowledge that exists. This explains that Joy is right in saying that “most of the smartest people work for someone else.”\n\nEric von Hippel, a professor of technological innovation in the MIT Sloan School of Management, is known partly for his principle of knowledge being ‘sticky’. This highlights the difficulty of transporting knowledge from one place to another. Stickiness is defined as the cost required to “transfer a unit of information to a specified locus in a form usable by a given information seeker. When this cost is low, information stickiness is low; when it is high, stickiness is high.” “When Joy says that most of the smart people work for someone else, it is not because companies are hiring dumb people. It is not because employees in any given firm are not smart. It is because of the nature of knowledge – getting hold of it is tough. It is unevenly distributed and sticky.”\n\nOne interpretation of Joy’s Law is that of Todd Park, former Chief Technology Officer of the United States, through his summary of the challenge of open innovation in government: “Even if you get the best and the brightest to work for you, there will always be an infinite number of other, smarter people employed by others.”\n"}
{"id": "46599570", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46599570", "title": "Keisei sanshoku (Shōbōgenzō)", "text": "Keisei sanshoku (Shōbōgenzō)\n\nKeisei sanshoku (), rendered in English as The Sounds of Valley Streams, the Forms of Mountains, is the 25th book of the \"Shōbōgenzō\" by the 13th century Sōtō Zen monk Eihei Dōgen. It was written in the spring of 1240 at Dōgen's monastery Kōshōhōrin-ji in Kyoto. The book appears in both the 75 and 60 fascicle versions of the \"Shōbōgenzō\", and it is ordered ninth in the later chronological 95 fascicle editions. The name \"keisei sanshoku\" is a quotation from the Song Dynasty Chinese poet Su Shi, wherein he experiences the sound of the valley stream as the preaching of the dharma and the mountain as the body of the Buddha. Dogen also discusses this verse of Su Shi in the later Shōbōgenzō books of \"Sansui Kyō\" and \"Mujō Seppō\". About halfway through the essay, Dōgen switches from focusing on the title theme to a discussion of Buddhist ethics before ultimately concluding that one must practice ethical behavior in order to see the dharma in the natural world as Su Shi does.\n\nThe name \"keisei sanshoku\" is a paraphase from the Song Dynasty Chinese poet Su Shi, wherein he experiences the sound of the valley stream as the preaching of the dharma and the mountain as the body of the Buddha. The poem of Su Shi's being referenced is as follows: <poem> The voices of the river valley are the [Buddha's] wide and long tongue,\nThe form of the mountains is nothing other than his pure body.\nThrough the night, eighty-four thousand verses.\nOn another day, how can I tell them to others?</poem> Although the title consists of only four Chinese characters (谿声山色), they have been translated into English in many different ways. While the third character (山) is always unambiguously translated as \"mountain\", the other three have more diverse interpretations. The second character (声) indicates either \"sound\" or \"voice, while the final character can mean \"form\" or \"color\". The many English translations of the title are listed below:\nRegardless of the particular translation, the title is ultimately metonymy for the natural world as a whole. As Gudō Nishijima explains: In Buddhism, this world is the truth itself, so nature is a face of the truth. Nature is the material side of the real world, so it is always speaking the truth, and manifesting the law of the universe every day. This is why it has been said since ancient times that sounds of rivers are the preaching of Gautama Buddha and forms of mountains are the body of Gautama Buddha. In this chapter, Master Dōgen preached to us the meaning of nature in Buddhism\".\n"}
{"id": "6406827", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6406827", "title": "Manuchehr Jamali", "text": "Manuchehr Jamali\n\nManuchehr Jamali (7 January 1929–5 July 2012) was a dissident Persian philosopher and poet. He is best known for his exposition and analysis of the Shahnameh of Ferdowsi and his research about the ancient Iranian mythology. Burgwinkel has reviewed his works and the developments of his thoughts and philosophical ideas. \n\n"}
{"id": "17246423", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17246423", "title": "Marcantonio Genua", "text": "Marcantonio Genua\n\nMarcantonio Genua (born Marco Antonio Passeri; 1491–1563) was a Renaissance Aristotelian philosopher who taught at the University of Padua.\n\nHe was a teacher and uncle of the great Renaissance philosopher Giacomo Zabarella.\n\n"}
{"id": "2937447", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2937447", "title": "Mark Driscoll", "text": "Mark Driscoll\n\nMark A. Driscoll (born October 11, 1970) is an American evangelical Christian pastor and author who serves as Senior & Founding Pastor of The Trinity Church in Scottsdale, Arizona.\n\nIn 1996, Driscoll co-founded Mars Hill Church in Seattle, Washington. As of March 2014, Mars Hill Church had 14,000 members in five states and fifteen locations. He also founded The Resurgence (a theological cooperative) and co-founded other parachurch organizations, including Acts 29 Network, Churches Helping Churches, and The Gospel Coalition. He has written for the \"Faith and Values\" section of the \"Seattle Times\", \"OnFaith\", and the Fox News website. Driscoll has also authored a number of popular Christian books.\n\nDriscoll was described as \"an evangelical bad boy, a gifted orator and [a] charismatic leader\", and as \"hip yet hard-line\". He is known for promoting \"culturally relevant\" yet theologically conservative Christianity. He favors \"vintage\" aesthetics and a \"down to earth\", yet at times \"aggressive\", preaching style. Controversy has often surrounded his complementarian view of gender roles, Calvinist theology, perceived misogyny, plagiarism accusations, and the culture of fear that allegedly once supported his ministerial authority.\n\nIn the summer of 2014, he faced public criticism and formal complaints from Mars Hill staff members and congregants due to his perceived abusive behavior. In August 2014, the Board of Acts 29 Network removed him from its membership and urged him to step down from ministry. On October 14, 2014, Driscoll resigned from Mars Hill Church. Within three months of Driscoll's resignation, Mars Hill Church was dissolved, with individual congregations becoming independent, merging with other churches, or disbanding.\n\nOn February 1, 2016, Driscoll opened The Trinity Church in Scottsdale, Arizona.\n\nDriscoll was born in Grand Forks, North Dakota and raised Roman Catholic in the Riverton Heights area of SeaTac, WA, which he described as \"a very rough neighborhood\" where serial killer Ted Bundy had picked up victims. He is the oldest of five children and the son of a union drywaller. He described a difficult family history of abuse and crime, writing: \"The men on my father's side include uneducated alcoholics, mental patients, and women beaters... One of the main reasons my parents moved from North Dakota to Seattle was to get away from some family members when I was a very young boy.\"\n\nIn high school, he met his future wife, Grace Martin, daughter of Gib Martin, an evangelical pastor. In 1989, he graduated from Highline High School in Burien, Washington, where he served as student body president, captain of the baseball team, editor of the school newspaper, and the \"most likely to succeed\" in his graduating class. At age 19, as a college freshman, Driscoll converted to evangelical Christianity. The same year, according to Driscoll, \"God spoke to me... He told me to marry Grace, preach the Bible, train men, and plant churches... I began preparing to devote my life to obey [God's] call for me.\" He earned a Bachelor of Arts degree in communications from Washington State University with a minor in philosophy and holds a Master of Arts degree in exegetical theology from Western Seminary.\n\nAfter graduation, Mark and Grace relocated to Seattle, where they attended Antioch Bible Church and worked with that church's college ministry as volunteers. Mark was hired as an intern a few months later. Through his internship, Mark met Mike Gunn, who worked for an Athletes in Action ministry at the University of Washington, and Lief Moi, a radio show host. The three men began to discuss planting an \"urban, postmodern\" church in Seattle. Greg Kappas, the pastor responsible for Antioch Bible Church's new church planting ministry, mentored the three and helped them develop their plans.\n\nDriscoll, Lief Moi, and Mike Gunn founded Mars Hill Church in spring 1995 and officially launched it in fall 1996. The church first met in the Driscolls' home. By spring 1997, the church had relocated and expanded to two services. Driscoll later reflected that he was \"not ready\" when he planted Mars Hill at age 25.\n\nLater in 1997, he was invited to speak at a Leadership Network pastors' conference in California. The speech he made inspired many within the nascent emerging church movement and, according to Driscoll, shifted the movement's focus from reaching Generation X to reaching the postmodern world. As a result, Mars Hill Church and Driscoll were thrust into the national spotlight: he was interviewed on National Public Radio and \"Mother Jones\" magazine published a feature on the church. Mars Hill Church grew from 160 members in 1996 to 350 in 1999.\n\nIn 1998, Driscoll and David Nicholas founded the Acts 29 Network (\"Acts 29\"), a church planting network, in response to people approaching Driscoll for advice on planting churches. The goal of this parachurch organization was to plant 1000 new churches around the world \"through recruiting, assessing, training, funding, and coaching.\" Acts 29 started slowly under Driscoll's tenure, with 11 churches at its inception and 17 by 2003. At that point, it began to grow rapidly, reaching 50 churches by 2006 and 410 churches by 2011. The majority are still located in the U.S., with 38 churches in 16 other countries.\n\nAccording to \"Salon\", Driscoll structured Acts 29 to match his own \"strict orthodoxy and views\" on theology and politics, while allowing latitude in cultural specifics. Among other specifics, prospective Acts 29 church planters must be led by men.\n\nIn 2006, Driscoll founded the Resurgence, a \"theological cooperative\" to support Acts 29 and Mars Hill Church. The Resurgence aims to train church leaders in conservative reformed theology. It has three main branches: \"Re:Lit\", a publishing house; \"Re:Train\", a missional training centre; and \"Re:Sound\", a music arm.\n\nDriscoll, Mars Hill's first paid pastor, had been its main preaching pastor and public face since its inception. As the church grew, he began to train other elders and deacons, moving himself into a more executive role in setting vision and continuing to preach. By 2006, the church counted 4000–5000 weekly attendees at three campuses in the Seattle region. In that year, Driscoll claimed that he had reached a personal crisis due to his \"overwhelming workload\"—at this time he was the principal authority in Mars Hill, president of Acts 29, president of The Resurgence, an author, and an international traveler with speaking engagements. He was, by his own account, sleeping only 2–3 hours per night and began to fear that he would die early from a heart attack. Ultimately, in 2006–2007, he began to restructure the church and claimed he was going to divest power. Within Mars Hill, he publicly stated that he resigned as \"legal president,\" president of the elder board, and chief of staff, while retaining his roles as public face and preaching pastor.\n\nPrior to the reorganization, Mars Hill was governed by a full council of two dozen church elders (including Driscoll) who had equal voting authority and voted on major decisions, and a five-member council of \"executive elders\" (also including Driscoll) who handled daily operations but deferred to the full council for major decisions. According to then-Mars Hill pastor Paul Petry, in summer 2007 Driscoll \"replaced the [executive council] with yes-men\" and began to make major decisions, such as purchasing a $4 million new building without consulting the full council.\n\nIn September 2007, Driscoll proposed changes to the bylaws that would grant indefinite terms of office to the \"executive elders.\" Driscoll and proponents of the changes argued that the church had outgrown its original governing structuring, while detractors contended that the changes consolidated power with Driscoll and his trusted lieutenants. Paul Petry and another pastor, Bent Meyer, both dissented to the changes. In response, Driscoll fired both from their jobs. In a Mars Hill forum posting, the pastors were not named, but they reported that one was fired for \"displaying an unhealthy distrust in the senior leadership\" and the other for \"disregarding the accepted elder protocol for the bylaw deliberation period\" and \"verbally attacking the lead pastor [Driscoll].\"\n\nThe morning after Petry and Meyer were fired, Driscoll said to his pastors and other church leaders at a conference: \"Yesterday we fired two elders for the first time in the history of Mars Hill... They were off mission, so now they're unemployed. This will be the defining issue as to whether or not you succeed or fail. I've read enough of the New Testament to know that occasionally Paul [the Apostle] puts somebody in the wood chipper.\"\n\nIn addition to the loss of their jobs, both were put on ecclesiastical trials to review their church membership. Petry was charged by Driscoll and the other elders with \"lack of trust and respect for spiritual authority\" and \"improper use of confidential information\", the latter charge because Petry had discussed the bylaw changes with church deacon Rob Smith, who was not part of the council of elders but had been asked to join. Petry was permitted to respond to the charges, but was not allowed to attend his full trial. The elders came to a unanimous conclusion that Petry was no longer qualified to be a church elder. Driscoll urged his congregation to shun Petry's family.\n\nMeyer was given a \"gentler\" ecclesiastical trial but chose to resign. Rob Smith had written an email to the elders calling for a fair trial for Petry and Meyer; Smith said that in response, Driscoll told his congregants to stop giving to Agathos, an independent economic development charity that Smith also ran, causing donations to drop by 80 percent.\n\nWithin a year of the changes, Lief Moi, co-founder of Mars Hill and a close friend of Driscoll, left Mars Hill and started a pizzeria. He later explained that he was disillusioned with the bylaw changes and fallout; he felt it best to \"leave quietly\" rather than \"add to the difficulty\" that the restructuring had caused. He repudiated his past actions and met with Petry and Meyer to apologize for \"not doing more to stand up for them.\"\n\nIn 2014, Petry, Smith, and Moi all joined and, in some cases, organized online protests against Driscoll. Commentators linked the summer 2014 \"unrest\" at Mars Hill to the structural changes of 2007 along with other developments in Driscoll's career.\n\nIn March 2009, Driscoll was involved in an ABC \"Nightline \"debate entitled, \"Does Satan Exist?\" Driscoll and Annie Lobert, founder of the Hookers for Jesus Christian ministry, argued for the existence of the devil against Deepak Chopra, philosopher, and Carlton Pearson, former fundamentalist minister and author of \"The Gospel of Inclusion.\" A commentator described the debate as \"contentious\", with all participants taking \"uncompromising\" positions. Driscoll argued that a belief in both Satan and God was an essential tenet of Christianity. Driscoll has also been featured on the program discussing other topics including the Ten Commandments and sex.\n\nAfter the catastrophic 2010 Haiti earthquake, Driscoll and James MacDonald founded Churches Helping Churches to help churches rebuild after catastrophic natural disasters. They help to rebuild dozens of churches in Haiti and Japan. Driscoll first flew to Haiti shortly after the earthquake, and set up a partnership between his church and Jean F. E. St. Cyr, a Haitian pastor. Mars Hill Church donated $1.7 million in medical supplies.\n\nOn March 29, 2012, Driscoll resigned as President of Acts 29 and from the Council of The Gospel Coalition, turning his responsibilities over to Matt Chandler. Commenting on the transition, Chandler said, \"[the Acts 29 board was] running a network of 422 churches on six continents the same way when it was 80 to 100 churches on one continent.\" Chandler also planned to disentangle Acts 29 from Mars Hill Church; prior to Driscoll's departure, Acts 29 was primarily funded by Mars Hill. By mid-2014, Driscoll was no longer on the board of Acts 29.\n\nDriscoll was a founding member of The Gospel Coalition, a fellowship of reformed evangelical churches. On his departure, he wrote he had no \"relational conflict with anyone and no disagreement theologically\"; rather, he explained that he was reorganizing his priorities and could not keep up with all of his commitments. Driscoll indicated that he intended to devote more of his efforts to Mars Hill Church, more time to his family, and less time to travel.\n\nIn May 2013, now former Mars Hill elder Dave Kraft filed formal charges (under Mars Hill Church bylaws) of \"mistreatment\" against Mark Driscoll and other leaders at Mars Hill. He specifically accused Driscoll of being \"domineering, verbally violent, arrogant, and quick-tempered.\" Kraft further argued that this \"established pattern of... behavior\" disqualified Driscoll from church leadership. Mars Hill Church's Board of Advisors and Accountability responded, saying that they sent one hundred letters to former elders and staff in an effort to substantiate Kraft's charges. They received eighteen responses, which they reviewed, and determined them to be \"non-disqualifying\" with respect to Driscoll's leadership position. However, the Board did initiate a \"reconciliation process\" to address \"many offenses and hurts that are still unresolved.\" Dave Kraft worked at Mars Hill from 2005 to 2013 and was Driscoll's personal \"coach\" during that time.\n\nMichael Paulson, writing for \"The New York Times\", wrote that while Driscoll has endured criticism from the American political left and liberal Christianity for many years, recent years leading up to and including 2014 saw the rise of criticism from conservative Christians, including Driscoll's former \"allies and supporters.\" According to the \"Seattle Times\", Janet Mefferd's plagiarism accusations were a \"crucial turning point\" that drew outside interest into Mars Hill's internal affairs, and prompted inquiries from new critics about the church and how it handled its finances. After hearing of Mefferd's plagiarism accusations, evangelical Christian and Grove City College psychology professor Warren Throckmorton took interest and became a prominent critic of Driscoll and Mars Hill, documenting other examples of perceived plagiarism, abuse reported by former Mars Hill members, and questionable uses of church finances.\n\nOn March 29, 2014, four former Mars Hill elders (Kyle Firstenberg, Dave Kraft, Scott Mitchell, and co-founder Lief Moi) created a blog titled \"Repentant Pastor\" and posted online \"confessions and apologies\" related to their leadership roles in Mars Hill. In a joint statement, they wrote, \"we recognize and confess that Mars Hill has hurt many people within the Mars Hill community, as well as those outside the community.\" \"Salon\" summarized the statements, writing that the former leaders emphasized their failures to \"rein Driscoll in\" and their complicity with Driscoll's \"autocratic\" management style. Firstenberg wrote that while the church appeared to flourish, employees lived in constant stress, and \"success was to be attained regardless of human and moral cost.\" Firstenberg added:\nThe reputation Driscoll got for being the cussing pastor simply because he used harsh language from the pulpit was nothing compared to the swearing and abusive language he used daily with staff. When people asked me how I liked working at Mars Hill, I would simply say, \"It is a great church to attend, but I wouldn’t recommend working here.\" It was well known with the staff that what was preached on Sunday was not lived out Monday morning with the staff. Lief Moi described his own behavior at Mars Hill as \"driven by narcissism and anti-social tendencies.\"\n\nIn a recorded message shown to church members on July 27, 2014, Driscoll discussed the various controversies of 2014. He said that he could \"not address some members' discontent... because the complaints were anonymous.\" According to Rob Smith, former program director at the church, the anonymity assertion \"really touched a nerve\" with former members. In response, dissenters organized a Facebook group called \"Dear Pastor Mark & Mars Hill: We Are Not Anonymous.\"\n\nThe following Sunday, \"dozens of demonstrators\" organized and picketed the Mars Hill Church Bellevue campus (where Driscoll preaches live), calling for Driscoll's resignation. Demonstrators carried placards reading \"We Are Not Anonymous\" and \"Question Mark\", and accused Driscoll of bullying, misogyny, inadequate transparency in church finances, and harsh discipline of members. Driscoll was away for his annual summer vacation. A church elder, Anthony Iannicielo, responded that the criticism of Driscoll and Mars Hill \"goes with the territory\" of running a large church with a long history. In a pre-recorded message, Driscoll said that he had been deliberately \"rather silent\" during the criticism, that he found it \"a little overwhelming and a bit confusing\", and indicated that he had no intention of resigning.\n\nOn August 8, 2014, the board of Acts 29 removed both Driscoll and Mars Hill Church from membership. Chairman Matt Chandler wrote, \"it is our conviction that the nature of the accusations against Mark, most of which have been confirmed by him, make it untenable and unhelpful to keep Mark [Driscoll] and Mars Hill [Church] in our network.\" The board of directors of Acts 29 expressed gratitude for Driscoll's work with the Network as co-founder and former President, but declared his recent actions \"ungodly and disqualifying behavior.\" To Driscoll, they wrote, \"our board and network have been the recipients of... dozens of fires directly linked to you... we are naturally associated with you and feel that this association discredits the network and is a major distraction.\" They further advised him to \"step down from ministry for an extended time and seek help.\"\n\nActs 29 had attempted to \"lean on\" the Mars Hill's Board of Advisors and Accountability (BOAA) to discipline Driscoll, but lost confidence in the board. The BOAA had been set up by Driscoll as his accountability board, rather than the elders of the church. (Members of the BOAA were for the most part professional clergy and businessmen who were not members of the church and hand picked by Driscoll.) The previous month, evangelical leaders and Acts 29 associates Paul Tripp and James MacDonald resigned from the BOAA. Religion correspondent Sarah Pulliam Bailey described Acts 29's decision as \"unusual\" since \"ministries usually leave matters of church discipline up to local churches.\"\n\nBOAA Chairman Michael Van Skaik responded, \"Men, I told the lead pastors... that we are making real progress in addressing the serious reconciliation and unhealthy culture issues that have been part of Mars Hill Church for way too long. And we are...\" He further added that Acts 29 leaders did not contact Mars Hill before acting, and that Driscoll had \"changed his ways\", and described Acts 29's actions as \"divisive.\" Van Skaik also addressed the formal charges brought against Driscoll under the Mars Hill bylaws, writing \"the formal charges that were filed were serious, were taken seriously, and were not dismissed by the board lightly.\"\n\nOn August 24, 2014, Driscoll announced he would take a six-week \"extended focus break\" from his pastorship while charges against him were investigated. Later that week, a letter signed by nine current Mars Hill pastors which severely criticized Driscoll was leaked to the public. The letter, written days before Driscoll stepped down, urged him to step down from all aspects of ministry. It included a quote from \"internationally recognized\" author, pastor and former BOAA member Paul Tripp saying, \"This is without a doubt, the most abusive, coercive ministry culture I’ve ever been involved with.\" One of the pastors who signed the letter was fired five days later for \"rebellion against the church.\" By September 9, eight of the nine pastors who signed the letter had resigned or been terminated, including worship director Dustin Kensrue. The last of the nine pastors was demoted from pastor to lay elder. Driscoll did not return at the end of the planned six weeks; after seven weeks, he announced his resignation.\n\nOn September 7, 2014 (the second week of Driscoll's hiatus), Mars Hill officials, citing \"financial pressures in the wake of recent negative media attention\", announced layoffs and closures of a few church branches. Weekly attendance at the start of the year for all branches was 12,000–13,000, but had dropped to 8,000–9,000. Donations also had a \"steep decline.\" In response, the church planned to lay off \"30 to 40 percent\" of their 100 paid staff members, and close their downtown Seattle branch and University District branch, consolidating both congregations into the Ballard location. Two other branches outside Washington state were marked for possible closure if their finances did not improve. Mars Hill also announced the resignation of Sutton Turner, executive elder since 2011, effective at the end of September 2014.\n\nLifeWay Christian Resources, a Christian bookseller and publishing arm of the Southern Baptist Convention, announced on August 10, 2014 that they suspended sales of Driscoll's books. Marty King, communications director for LifeWay, said, \"[we] are not selling Mark Driscoll's books while we assess the situation regarding his ministry.\" King identified Acts 29's call for Driscoll to step down as \"certainly a part\" of their decision, along with the \"cumulative effect\" of other allegations against Driscoll.\n\nDriscoll was removed from the speaker roster of several planned \"Act Like Men \"conferences, which includes other Acts 29 speakers and past Driscoll associates, including James MacDonald and Matt Chandler. He was also removed as closing speaker at the Gateway Church Conference, an annual gathering of thousands of evangelical pastors. Mars Hill Church also cancelled their own Resurgence 2014 conference, planned for October 2014, since several planned speakers had cut ties with Driscoll.\n\nIn the fall of 2014, a group of elders released a report on an investigation into accusations of bullying and intimidating behavior by Driscoll made by 21 former church elders. The investigation involved \"some 1,000 hours of research, interviewing more than 50 people and preparing 200 pages of information.\" The report concluded that Driscoll had never been charged with \"immorality, illegality or heresy,\" and considered \"some of the accusations against Pastor Mark to be altogether unfair or untrue.\" Additionally, the report found that many of the \"other charges had previously been addressed by Pastor Mark, privately and publicly. Indeed, he had publicly confessed and apologized for a number of the charges against him, some of which occurred as long as 14 years ago.\" However, elders did find \"bullying\" and \"patterns of persistent sinful behavior\" by Driscoll. The Board also concluded that Driscoll had \"been guilty of arrogance, responding to conflict with a quick temper and harsh speech, and leading the staff and elders in a domineering manner\", but was not charged with anything immoral or illegal. Driscoll maintained that he had not disqualified himself from ministry.\n\nChurch leadership crafted a \"restoration\" plan to help Driscoll and save the church. Instead, Driscoll declined the restoration plan and resigned on October 14, 2014, citing concerns for his health and safety. His resignation came as a \"surprise\" to the church's Board of Overseers, who said in a statement that they had not asked Driscoll for his resignation.\n\nThe journalist Ruth Graham wrote that \"there was no single disgrace or crime that brought Driscoll down. Instead, it was a series of accusations: of plagiarism, crudeness, a bullying management style, unseemly consolidation of power, and squishy book-promotion ethics, to name a few.\" Theology professor Anthony Bradley remarked that while denominational churches have continuity after the departure of prominent leaders, Mars Hill Church was nondenominational and largely built on Driscoll's personal charisma.\n\nOn October 20, 2014, six days after his resignation, Driscoll, at the invitation of mega-church leader, Robert Morris, spoke at Morris's Gateway Conference saying that, leading up to his resignation, he and his family were harassed and he had received death threats. Driscoll subsequently appeared at other conferences and churches.\n\nOn July 27, 2015, Driscoll announced that his new ministry had purchased the mailing list and assets of \"The Resurgence\" from Mars Hill Church and that he and his family had moved to the Phoenix area. On February 1, 2016, the Driscolls announced the opening of their new church: The Trinity Church in Scottsdale, Arizona. Commentators including Warren Throckmorton observed that the new church's website makes no reference to Driscoll's \"controversial\" history at Mars Hill, while the staff roster include two former Mars Hill employees. Texas megachurch pastors Robert Morris and Jimmy Evans are on the church's board.\n\nAccording to the \"Seattle Times\", \"preaching and communicating lies at the heart of Driscoll's draw.\" According to Mars Hill, at his peak online audiences generated 15 million views of his sermons per year. In another \"Seattle Times\" article, Driscoll is described as a \"hipster preacher\" who used \"charisma and combativeness.\"\n\nDriscoll has been described as a \"gifted orator\" and \"charismatic leader.\" People call him a very compelling speaker, \"gifted\" and \"dynamic and funny, with a potent mix of reverence for Jesus and irreverence for everything else.\" His public speaking style, he says, is influenced by stand-up comedians like Chris Rock. Crosscut.com described his presentation style as follows: \"Pacing the stage at the main Ballard campus, he delivered a sermon on marriage roles as he saw them set forth in the Song of Solomon. He told stories from his own marriage, offered statistics, and dropped jokes without their feeling forced. Every few minutes he would sniff in a thoughtful, practiced sort of way. This untucked, down-to-earth demeanor was the opposite of a huckster televangelist, but polished in its own way. It makes the guy easy to listen to.\"\n\nRob Wall, a professor at Seattle Pacific University, links the success of Mars Hill Church to Mark Driscoll's direct answers to complicated spiritual questions: \"His style of public rhetoric is very authoritative. Whether it's about the Bible, or about culture, he is very clear and definitive.\"\n\nIn 2009, \"The New York Times Magazine\" called Driscoll \"one of the most admired—and reviled—figures among evangelicals nationwide.\" In 2011, \"Preaching\" magazine named him one of the 25 most influential [English-speaking] pastors of the past 25 years. In 2014, Forbes called Driscoll \"one of the nation’s most prominent and celebrated pastors.\"\n\nDriscoll is described in a 2014 profile by \"Salon\" as being the center of a cult of personality, and of using controversy to increase his visibility. \"Salon\" has also described \"[sex] talk fused with God talk, or titillation more broadly, [as] a key component of the Driscoll brand,\" adding: \"Driscoll’s stage persona at times has included tight jeans and an extra button open on the shirt. He once greeted a crowd at the University of Washington by reporting that he had gotten his genitals caught in his zipper before the show and that he would be stopping on time because his wife was at home waiting for him with a cream pie\".\n\n\"See also: \"\n\nWhen evangelical pastor Ted Haggard resigned from church leadership after a sex scandal involving a male escort, Driscoll provoked an uproar by posting the following comment on his blog: \"A wife who lets herself go and is not sexually available to her husband in the ways that the Song of Songs is so frank about is not responsible for her husband's sin, but she may not be helping him either.\" Driscoll later apologized for his statement, stating that he did not intend for his comment to reflect on Haggard's wife personally. After the incident, the \"Seattle Times\" discontinued Driscoll as one of its religion columnists.\n\nOn July 30, 2014, dissenters released a \"controversial, vulgar\" rant Driscoll had written under the pseudonym \"William Wallace II\" in 2000, dubbed the \"Pussified Nation\" rant. The rant contained \"blunt and emotional comments critical of feminism, homosexual behavior, and 'sensitive emasculated' men\", and called for \"real men\" to rise up in the spirit of Scottish warrior William Wallace as depicted in the film \"Braveheart\". Mars Hill Church had long since deleted their unmoderated \"Midrash\" discussion board where the forum postings occurred. Driscoll referenced the incident in his 2006 book \"Confessions of a Reformission Rev\"; in that book, he stated that he believed his intentions were \"good\", but regretted having written the rant. He wrote in 2006, \"I had a good mission, but some of my tactics were born out of anger and burnout, and I did a lot of harm and damage while attracting a lot of attention.\" Driscoll responded to the release of the rant in a letter to his congregation, writing that \"the content of my postings to that discussion board does not reflect how I feel or how I would conduct myself today.\" On September 8, 2014, blogger Libby Anne republished other examples of material written by \"William Wallace II\" in 2001, and remarked she had \"rarely seen an evangelical man assert male superiority and prominence this directly.\"\n\nOn November 21, 2013, radio host Janet Mefferd accused Driscoll of plagiarism. Mefferd claimed that 14 pages of Driscoll's book \"A Call to Resurgence\" quoted \"extensively and without citation\" from Peter Jones's 1999 book, \"Gospel Truth/Pagan Lies: Can You Tell the Difference?\" and Jones's 2010 book \"One or Two: Seeing a World of Difference.\" Driscoll's publisher Tyndale House stated that they performed a \"thorough in-house review\" and disagreed that this was a case of plagiarism. Neil Holdway, a plagiarism expert with the American Copy Editors Society, concluded that \"Driscoll had not adequately indicated the extent to which he had borrowed Jones's work.\"\n\nMore allegations of plagiarism in other Driscoll works soon surfaced, including passages from a sermon series companion text, \"Trial: 8 Witnesses From 1&2 Peter\", which were copied verbatim from passages written by David Wheaton in the \"New Bible Commentary\". InterVarsity Press, publisher of the \"New Bible Commentary\", stated that Driscoll failed to properly provide quotation or attribution for the material. The relevant passages were posted online. The allegations soon expanded to include claims that Driscoll used ghostwriters and researchers without giving them proper attribution. As of December 2013, neither Peter Jones, D.A. Carson, nor Janet Mefferd had made any further statements pertaining the case.\n\nSyndicator Salem Radio subsequently removed both the broadcast interview with Driscoll and associated materials from Mefferd's program website and apologized for raising the matter in a broadcast interview. This attempt to shut down the story provoked the resignation of Mefferd's producer, Ingrid Schlueter. In explaining her resignation, Schlueter wrote the following regarding herself and Mefferd:\n\nDriscoll apologized for \"mistakes\" related to the allegations in a statement released to \"The Christian Post\" on December 18, 2013. Mefferd eventually left Salem Radio in April 2015.\n\nOn March 5, 2014, evangelical magazine \"World\" published an article claiming that Mars Hill Church paid a $25,000 fee to marketing firm ResultSource, to manipulate sales numbers of Mark Driscoll's book \"Real Marriage\" and thereby attain a place on the \"New York Times\" bestseller list. ResultSource accomplished this objective—the book briefly reached #1 in the \"Advice How-to\" category—by buying 11,000 copies of the book, using $210,000 of Mars Hill Church's money, from a variety of online sources and payment methods.\n\nThe Evangelical Council for Financial Accountability stated that buying a place on bestseller lists violates its ethical standards, but that because this happened before Mars Hill Church joined they were unable to take action. \"Christianity Today\" described the arrangement as \"ethically questionable\", and Carl Trueman of religion journal \"First Things\" decried the revelation, writing, \"the overall picture is one of disaster\" and \"[it] has raised questions not simply about personal integrity but also the very culture of American Evangelicalism.\"\n\nDriscoll had used the apparent success of \"Real Marriage\" to negotiate a multi-book deal with Christian publisher Tyndale House. The first book under Driscoll's \"Resurgence\" imprint was \"A Call to Resurgence,\" with plans to publish five to seven books per year. Tyndale House defended Driscoll's alleged plagiarism in \"A Call to Resurgence\", and affirmed their continuing relationship with Driscoll.\n\nMars Hill Church responded with a statement, writing, \"while not uncommon or illegal, this unwise strategy [of buying one's own books to drive up book sales figures] is not one we had used before or since, and not one we will use again.\" Mars Hill also claimed that the \"true cost\" of the effort was less than \"what has been reported.\"\n\nOn March 17, 2014, Driscoll posted an open letter of apology in response to this controversy and others, writing that he will no longer claim to be a \"New York Times\" bestselling author, and that he now sees the ResultSource marketing campaign as \"manipulating a book sales reporting system, which is wrong.\" He wrote that he was giving up his status as a \"celebrity pastor\", that he considered his \"angry young prophet\" days to be over, and that he was reducing his public presence in speaking engagements and on social media.\n\nOn March 28, 2015, Sutton Turner, a former elder of the church who signed the Result Source contract, explained that he disapproved of the marketing plan to use Result Source, but the decision to use it had already been made before he began work at Mars Hill, so he signed the contract anyway.\n\nDriscoll was scheduled to appear at Hillsong Church's 2015 Australian and UK conferences. A petition against Driscoll's appearance at the conference collected 3000 signatures, prompting Hillsong Church Senior Pastor Brian Houston to cancel Driscoll's planned speaking event. Instead, the Hillsong conference presented a 30-minute taped interview of Mark and Grace Driscoll interviewed by Houston at the conference.\n\nDriscoll is an evangelical Christian. Within that broad movement, he is theologically and socially conservative. On the Bible, he is a literalist and inerrantist. Driscoll's theology draws inspiration from historical theologians, including St. Augustine, John Calvin, and Martin Luther, along with the Puritans, Jonathan Edwards, and Charles Spurgeon. He also respects evangelical leaders such as Billy Graham, J. I. Packer, Francis Schaeffer, and John Stott. His contemporary influences include Lesslie Newbigin and the group he terms the \"Missional Reformed Evangelicals\": Don Carson and John Piper for theology, and Tim Keller and Ed Stetzer for missiology. Driscoll's combination of theological conservatism and his \"missional\" embrace of contemporary culture contribute to controversies. Molly Worthen wrote: \"Conservatives call Driscoll 'the cussing pastor' and wish that he'd trade in his fashionably distressed jeans and taste for indie rock for a suit and tie and placid choral arrangements. Liberals wince at his hellfire theology and insistence that women submit to their husbands.\"\n\nRegarding spiritual gifts, Driscoll is a continuationist. Regarding creation, he is a \"Historic Creationist\". In his book \"Doctrine: What Christians Should Believe\", Driscoll expressed his respect for John Sailhamer's book \"Genesis Unbound\"; Driscoll is skeptical of evolution as a part of creationism. Driscoll believes that homosexual behavior is sinful, and that marriage is between one man and one woman. On church government, Driscoll favors an elder-led approach.\n\nDriscoll adheres to Reformed or Calvinist theology, although he characterizes his position specifically as New Calvinism to differentiate himself from the more cessationist and non-missional aspects associated historically with Calvinism. Driscoll denies the orthodox Calvinist view of limited atonement and believes instead that Jesus died for \"all people\" in some sense, and for \"some people\" (the elect) in another sense. He thinks this position was what John Calvin believed, saying in a humorous tone: 'Calvinism came after Calvin... I will argue that the Calvinists are not very Calvin. I will argue against Calvinism with Calvin... What kind of Calvinist are you? I'm a Calvin, not a Calvinist, that came later'. Driscoll also believes that this position (or slight variations thereof) was held by men like Charles Spurgeon, John Bunyan, Martin Luther, and Richard Baxter.\n\nDriscoll distinguishes between double and single predestination, and says that unlike John Calvin, he believes only in single predestination.\n\nDriscoll was associated with the emerging church movement. He described the movement as follows:\nThe emerging church is a growing, loosely connected movement of primarily young pastors who are glad to see the end of modernity and are seeking to function as missionaries who bring the gospel of Jesus Christ to emerging and postmodern cultures. The emerging church welcomes the tension of holding in one closed hand the unchanging truth of evangelical Christian theology () and holding in one open hand the many cultural ways of showing and speaking Christian truth as a missionary to America (). Since the movement, if it can be called that, is young and is still defining its theological center, I do not want to portray the movement as ideologically unified because I myself swim in the theologically conservative stream of the emerging church.\n\nDriscoll later distanced himself from the movement:\nIn the mid-1990s I was part of what is now known as the emerging church and spent some time traveling the country to speak on the emerging church in the emerging culture on a team put together by Leadership Network called the Young Leader Network. But, I eventually had to distance myself from the emergent stream of the network because friends like Brian McLaren and Doug Pagitt began pushing a theological agenda that greatly troubled me. Examples include referring to God as a chick, questioning God's sovereignty over and knowledge of the future, denial of the substitutionary atonement at the cross, a low view of Scripture, and denial of hell which is one hell of a mistake.\n\nOn gender roles, Driscoll is a complementarian, believing that men and women have equal worth, but have different roles within the family and the church. He endorses male headship of the home and church. According to a \"Mother Jones\" profile on Driscoll in 1998, he may have held egalitarian views at one time. He offered church courses in \"evangelical feminism\" and is quoted as saying \"the Bible is clear that men and women are both created by God in His image and likeness and totally equal in every way.\" In 2003, Driscoll said that he wished he could change the parts of the Bible that he believes restrict women from being pastors.\n\nMale leadership of the church is crucial, according to Driscoll, who believes that God called him specifically to \"train men.\" He traces many modern spiritual and social problems to the acceptance of female leadership. Driscoll describes Eve's temptation by the serpent in the Garden of Eden as \"the first invitation to an independent feminism.\" For Eve to eat the forbidden fruit was, according to Driscoll, \"the first exercising of a woman's role in leadership in the home and in the church in the history of the world. It does not go well.\"\n\nDriscoll believes that Christianity has been \"feminized.\" In a 2006 interview with \"Desiring God\", he said, \"The problem with the church today, it's just a bunch of nice, soft, tender, 'chickified' [\"sic\"] church boys. Sixty percent of Christians are chicks, and the forty percent that are dudes are still sort of chicks... The whole architecture and the whole aesthetic [of church buildings and services] is really feminine.\" In contrast, Driscoll emphasizes what he perceives as macho behavior in the actions of biblical protagonists: he describes Jesus, Paul the Apostle, and King David saying: \"... these guys were dudes. Heterosexual, win-a-fight, punch-you-in-the-nose, dudes.\" He believes that in order to be innovative, the church needs to get entrepreneurial young men involved, who will \"make the culture of the future.\"\n\nDriscoll interprets the Apostle Paul as writing that women are encouraged to be an active part of life and ministry in the church, but that only men can teach other men or become \"elder-pastors\" (the terms being synonymous). Since Paul's prohibition of female elder-pastors appeals to the Genesis creation story () for its rationale, Driscoll argues that the restriction is permanent and cannot be adjusted for changing culture.\n\nWhen the Episcopal Church elected Katharine Jefferts Schori as its first female Presiding Bishop, Driscoll wrote on his blog that \"if Christian males do not man up soon, the Episcopalians may vote a fluffy baby bunny rabbit as their next bishop to lead God's men.\"\n\nAccording to Salon.com, \"Driscoll has been a key advocate for candid conversations about sexuality among conservative Christians\".\n\nMark and Grace Driscoll published their first book together, entitled \"Real Marriage: The Truth About Sex, Friendship & Life Together\", in January 2012. It includes a chapter entitled \"Can We ___?\", discussing a biblical rationale for specific sexual acts that evangelical pastors are considered reluctant to discuss. Driscoll said that the book was written because \"only two [Christian] books go into depth on sexuality... a lot of Christian teaching about sex is answering questions of a previous generation.\" The Driscolls and Mars Hill Church heavily promoted the book, taking interviews with \"The View\", \"Fox & Friends\", and \"Piers Morgan Tonight.\"\n\n\"The Daily Beast\" described the book as controversial, writing that \"evangelicals of all stripes [were] outraged... from conservatives shocked by the graphic sex descriptions to liberals who hate its degrading of women.\" According to \"The Daily Mail\", the book \"gives a green light to a range of sexual taboos such as anal sex and using sex toys\", thereby taking aim at conservative religious views on sexual acts. Christian author and blogger Rachel Held Evans wrote, \"Grace [Driscoll] is often cast as the damaged and sinful wife who withholds sex from her deserving husband, Mark the hero who is justified in leaving his wife but instead comes along to rescue her.\" Driscoll responded to criticism in a post to CNN's \"Belief Blog\", writing: \"You try to write a book on marriage and sex with your wife and next thing you know there are a lot of ants crashing your picnic.\" He wrote that he and Grace anticipated criticism \"from all sides\" but felt it would be worthwhile anyway, because \"we want to help marriages and single people aspiring to marry...\"\n\nIn a 2007 sermon he preached in Edinburgh, Scotland, Driscoll asserted that Song of Solomon 2:3 refers to oral intercourse and added, \"‘Men, I am glad to report to you that oral sex is biblical... The wife performing oral sex on the husband is biblical... Ladies, your husbands appreciate oral sex. They do. So, serve them, love them well’\". During the same sermon, Driscoll stated that he had once advised a woman that she ought to perform oral sex upon her husband, and to apologize for her past unwillingness to do so; Driscoll added that later, the woman’s husband was influenced to become a Christian because she had followed this advice.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27598454", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27598454", "title": "Misericordia Dei", "text": "Misericordia Dei\n\nMisericordia Dei (\"Mercy of God\") is the title of an apostolic letter by Pope John Paul II to foster and reemphasize the importance of the \"Sacrament of Reconciliation\". The letter is subtitled \"On Certain Aspects of the Sacrament of Penance\" and was promulgated on 7 April 2002 in Rome, issued as Motu proprio and was signed by him.\n\nThe letter begins by quoting the Gospel of Matthew that Jesus was born to \"save his people from their sins\" and emphasizes the fervent and energetic summons with which John the Baptist called for repentance. Quoting the Epistle to the Romans , it states that \"Salvation is therefore and above all redemption from sin, which hinders friendship with God.\" \n\nThe letter emphasizes that Jesus himself granted the Apostles, through the power of the Holy Spirit, the authority to reconcile repentant sinners with God and the Church and quotes the Gospel of John : “Receive the Holy Spirit. If you forgive the sins of any, they are forgiven; if you retain the sins of any, they are retained”.\n\nThe letter states that the Sacrament of Reconciliation entails not only the action of the minister – only a Bishop or priest, who judges and absolves, tends and heals in the name of Christ – but also the actions of the penitent: contrition, confession and satisfaction. The letter emphasizes the need for penitents to \"name their own sins\", except when this is not possible.\n\nAs in the year 2000 letter Novo Millennio Ineunte John Paul II again asked the clergy for \"renewed pastoral courage in ensuring that the day-to-day teaching of Christian communities persuasively and effectively presents the practice of the Sacrament of Reconciliation\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38214881", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38214881", "title": "Neo-Vedanta", "text": "Neo-Vedanta\n\nNeo-Vedanta, also called Hindu modernism, neo-Hinduism, Global Hinduism and Hindu Universalism, are terms to characterize interpretations of Hinduism that developed in the 19th century. Some scholars argue that these modern interpretations incorporate western ideas into traditional Indian religions, especially Advaita Vedanta, which is asserted as central or fundamental to Hindu culture.\n\nThe term \"Neo-Vedanta\" was coined by Paul Hacker, in a somewhat pejorative way, to disntinguish modern developments from \"traditional\" Advaita Vedanta. Other scholars have pointed out that a Greater Advaita Vedānta developed since medieaval times, in the Muslim period of India, when Hindus responded to Muslim rule and domination. When Muslim rule was replaced by British rule, Hindu religious and political leaders and thinkers responded to this western colonialism and orientalism, contributing to the Indian freedom struggle and the modern national and religious identity of Hindus in the Republic of India. This societal aspect is covered under the term of Hindu reform movements.\n\nAmong the main proponents of such modern interpretations of Hinduism were Vivekananda, Aurobindo and Radhakrishnan, who to some extent also contributed to the emergence of Neo-Hindu movements in the West.\n\nNeo-Vedanta has been influential in the perception of Hinduism, both in the west and in the higher educated classes in India. It has received appraisal for its \"solution of synthesis\", but has also been criticised for its Universalism. The terms \"Neo-Hindu\" or \"Neo-Vedanta\" themselves have also been criticised for its polemical usage, the prefix \"Neo-\" then intended to imply that these modern interpretations of Hinduism are \"inauthentic\" or in other ways problematic.\n\nAccording to Halbfass, the terms \"Neo-Vedanta\" and \"Neo-Hinduism\" refer to \"the adoption of Western concepts and standards and the readiness to reinterpret traditional ideas in light of these new, imported and imposed modes of thought\". Promiment in Neo-Vedanta is Vivekananda, who's theology, according to Madaio, is often characterised in earlier scholarship as \"a rupture from 'traditional' or 'classical' Hindusim, particularly the 'orthodox' Advaita Vedanta of the eight century Samkara.\"\n\nThe term \"Neo-Vedanta\" appears to have arisen in Bengal in the 19th century, where it was used by both Indians and Europeans. According to Halbfass the term was invented by a Bengali, Brajendra Nath Seal (1864–1938), who used the term to characterise the literary work of Bankim Chandra Chatterjee (1838–1894).\n\nThe term \"neo-Vedanta\" was used by Christian missionaries as well as Hindu traditionalists to criticize the emerging ideas of the Brahmo Samaj, a critical usage whose \"polemical undertone [...] is obvious\".\n\nThe term \"neo-Hinduism\" was used by a Jesuit scholar resident in India, Robert Antoine (1914–1981), from whom it was borrowed by Paul Hacker, who used it to demarcate these modernist ideas from \"surviving traditional Hinduism,\" and treating the Neo-Advaitins as \"dialogue partners with a broken identity who cannot truly and authentically speak for themselves and for the Indian tradition\". Hacker made a distinction between \"Neo-Vedanta\" and \"neo-Hinduism\", seeing nationalism as a prime concern of \"neo-Hinduism\".\n\nAlthough neo-Vedanta proper developed in the 19th century in response to western colonialism, it has got deeper origins in the Muslim period of India.\n\nWith the onset of Islamic rule, hierarchical classifications of the various orthodox schools were developed to defend Hinduism against Islamic influences. According to Nicholson, already between the twelfth and the sixteenth century,\nThe tendency of \"a blurring of philosophical distinctions\" has also been noted by Burley. Lorenzen locates the origins of a distinct Hindu identity in the interaction between Muslims and Hindus, and a process of \"mutual self-definition with a contrasting Muslim other\", which started well before 1800. Both the Indian and the European thinkers who developed the term \"Hinduism\" in the 19th century were influenced by these philosophers.\n\nWithin these so-called \"doxologies\" Advaita Vedanta was given the highest position, since it was regarded to be most inclusive system. Vijnanabhiksu, a 16th-century philosopher and writer, is still an influential representant of these doxologies. He's been a prime influence on 19th century Hindu modernists like Vivekananda, who also tried to integrate various strands of Hindu thought, taking Advaita Vedanta as its most representative specimen.\n\nWith the colonisation of India by the British, a darker era in the history of India began. Prior to this, Muslim rule over North India had had a drastic effect on Hinduism (and Buddhism) through systematic persecution. While the Indian society was greatly impacted, its economy however continued to remain one of the largest in the World. Muslim rule over Southern India was also relatively short-lived before the 17th century. In contrast to the Muslim rulers, the British actively engaged in destroying the Indian economy as well. The economic destruction wrought by restrictive British policies and Industrial revolution in Europe, led to the dismantling of the prevailing decentralized education systems in India in the 18th century. The British state-supported education system, after the English Education Act of 1835, emphasized western religions and thoughts at the cost of indigenous ones.\n\nThe British also nurtured and were involved, post 1813, in the aggressive propagation of Protestant Christianity. This was concomitant with the British propaganda machine's involvement in the spreading anti-Hindu sentiments.\n\nIn response to the British rule and cultural dominance, Hindu reform movements developed, propagating societal and religious reforms, exemplifying what Percival Spear has called\nNeo-Vedanta, also called \"neo-Hinduism\" is a central theme in these reform-movements. The earliest of these reform-movements was Ram Mohan Roy's Brahmo Samaj, who strived toward a purified and monotheistic Hinduism.\n\nNeo-vedanta's main proponents are the leaders of the Brahmo Samaj, especially Ram Mohan Roy, while Vivekananda, Gandhi, Aurobindo and Radhakrishnan are the main proponents of neo-Hinduism.\n\nThe Brahmo Samaj was the first of the 19th century reform movements. Its founder, Ram Mohan Roy (1772–1833), strived toward an universalistic interpretation of Hinduism. He rejected Hindu mythology, but also the Christian trinity. He found that Unitarianism came closest to true Christianity, and had a strong sympathy for the Unitarians. He founded a missionary committee in Calcutta, and in 1828 asked for support for missionary activities from the American Unitarians. By 1829, Roy had abandoned the Unitarian Committee, but after Roy's death, the Brahmo Samaj kept close ties to the Unitarian Church, who strived towards a rational faith, social reform, and the joining of these two in a renewed religion. The Unitarians were closely connected to the Transcendentalists, who were interested in and influenced by Indian religions early on.\n\nRammohan Roy's ideas were \"altered ... considerably\" by Debendranath Tagore, who had a Romantic approach to the development of these new doctrines, and questioned central Hindu beliefs like reincarnation and karma, and rejected the authority of the \"Vedas\". Tagore also brought this \"neo-Hinduism\" closer in line with western esotericism, a development which was furthered by Keshubchandra Sen. Sen was influencded by Transcendentalism, an American philosophical-religious movement stringly connected with Unitarianism, which emphasized personal religious experience over mere reasoning and theology. Sen strived to \"an accessible, non-renunciatory, everyman type of spirituality\", introducing \"lay systems of spiritual practice\" which can be regarded as proto-types of the kind of Yoga-exercises which Vivekananda populurized in the west.\n\nThe theology of the Brahmo Samaj was called \"neo-Vedanta\" by Christian commentators, who \"partly admired [the Brahmos] for their courage in abandoning traditions of polytheism and image worship, but whom they also scorned for having proffered to other Hindus a viable alternative to conversion\". Critics accused classical Vedanta of being \"cosmic self-infatuation\" and \"ethical nihilism\". Brahmo Samaj leaders responded to such attacks by redefining the Hindu path to liberation, making the Hindu path available to both genders and all castes, incorporating \"notions of democracy and worldly improvement\".\n\nAccording to Gavin Flood, Vivekananda (1863–1902) (Narendranath Dutta) \"is a figure of great importance in the development of a modern Hindu self-understanding and in formulating the West's view of Hinduism\". He played a major role in the revival of Hinduism, and the spread of Advaita Vedanta to the west via the Ramakrishna Mission.\n\nIn 1880 Vivekananda joined Keshub Chandra Sen's \"Nava Vidhan\", which was established by Sen after meeting Ramakrishna and reconverting from Christianity to Hinduism. Narendranath (a.k.a. Narendra) became a member of a Freemasonry lodge \"at some point before 1884\" and of the Sadharan Brahmo Samaj in his twenties, a breakaway faction of the Brahmo Samaj led by Keshub Chandra Sen and Debendranath Tagore. From 1881 to 1884 he was also active in Sen's Band of Hope, which tried to discourage the youth from smoking and drinking. It was in this cultic milieu that Narendra became acquainted with western esotericism. His initial beliefs were shaped by Brahmo concepts, which included belief in a formless God and the deprecation of idolatry, and a \"streamlined, rationalized, monotheistic theology strongly coloured by a selective and modernistic reading of the \"Upanisads\" and of the Vedanta\". He propagated the idea that \"the divine, the absolute, exists within all human beings regardless of social status\", and that \"seeing the divine as the essence of others will promote love and social harmony\".\n\nDuring this period, he came in contact with Ramakrishna, who eventually became his guru, and fitted into his broadening views on spirituality and liberation.\n\nVivekananda's acquaintance with western esotericism made him very successful in western esoteric circles, beginning with his speech in 1893 at the Parliament of Religions. Vivekananda adapted traditional Hindu ideas and religiosity to suit the needs and understandings of his western audiences, who were especially attracted by and familiar with western esoteric traditions and movements like Transcendentalism and New thought. An important element in his adaptation of Hindu religiosity was the introduction of his four yoga's model, which includes Raja yoga, his interpretation of Patanjali's Yoga sutras, which offered a practical means to realize the divine force within which is central to modern western esotericism. In 1896 his book \"Raja Yoga\" was published, which became an instant success and was highly influential in the western understanding of Yoga.\n\nIn line with Advaita vedanta texts like \"Dŗg-Dŗśya-Viveka\" (14th century) and \"Vedantasara (of Sadananda)\" (15th century), Vivekananda saw samadhi as a means to attain liberation.\n\nGandhi (1869–1948) has become a worldwide hero of tolerance and striving toward freedom. In his own time, he objected to the growing forces of Indian nationalism, communalism and the subaltern response. Gandhi saw religion as an uniting force, confessing the equality of all religions. He synthesized the \"Astika\", \"Nastika\" and \"Semitic religions\", promoting an inclusive culture for peaceful living. Gandhi pled for a new hermeneutics of Indian scriptures and philosophy, observing that \"there are ample religious literature both in \"Astika\" and \"Nastika\" religions supporting for a pluralistic approach to religious and cultural diversity\".\n\nThe orthodox Advaita Vedanta, and the heterodox Jain concept Anekantavada provided him concepts for an \"integral approach to religious pluralism\". He regarded Advaita as a universal religion (\"dharma\") which could unite both the orthodox and nationalistic religious interpretations, as the subaltern alternatives. Hereby Gandhi offers an interpretation of \"Hindutva\" which is basically different from the \"Sangh Parivar\"-interpretation. The concept of \"anekantavada\" offered Gandhi an axiom that \"truth is many-sided and relative\". It is \"a methodology to counter exclusivism or absolutism propounded by many religious interpretations\". It has the capability of synthesizing different percpetions of reality. In Gandhi's view,\nAnekantavada also gives room to an organic understanding of \"spatio-temporal process\", that is, the daily world and its continued change. The doctrine of anekantavada is a plea for \"samvada\", \"dialogue\", and an objection against proselytizing activities.\n\nSarvepalli Radhakrishnan was a major force in the further popularization of Neo-Vedanta. As a schoolboy, Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan was inspired by Vivekananda's lectures, in which he found \"an ennobling vision of truth and harmony as well as a message of Indian pride\". He was educated by Christian missionaries, and wrote a master thesis on Vedanta and ethics. In later life, he became vice-president and president of India. According to Rinehart, he presented his view of Hinduism as \"the\" view of Hinduism. Central in his presentation was the claim that religion is fundamentally a kind of experience, \"anubhava\", reducing religion \"to the core experience of reality in its fundamental unity\". For Radhakrishnan, Vedanta was the essence and bedrock of religion.\n\nVivekananda \"occupies a very important place\" in the development of Indian nationalism as well as Hindu nationalism, and has been called \"the prophet of nationalism\", pleading for a \"Hindu regeneration\". According to S.N. Sen, his motto \"Arise, Awake and do not stop until the goal is reached\" had a strong appeal for millions of Indians. According to Bijoy Misra, a private blogger,\nAccording to Bijoy Misra, a private blogger,\n\nNeo-Vedanta aims to present Hinduism as a \"homogenized ideal of Hinduism\" with Advaita Vedanta as its central doctrine. It presents\nNeo-Vedanta was influenced by Oriental scholarship, which portrayed Hinduism as a \"single world religion\", and denigrated the heterogeneousity of Hindu beliefs and practices as 'distortions' of the basic teachings of Vedanta.\n\nFollowing Ramakrishna, neo-Vedanta regards all religions to be equal paths to liberation, but also gives a special place to Hinduism, as the ultimate universal religion.\n\nAccording to Benavides, neo-Vedanta is closer to Ramanuja's qualified non-dualism than it is to Shankara Advaita Vedanta. Nicholas F. Gier notes that neo-Vedanta does not regard the world to be illusionary, in contrast to Shankara's Advaita.\n\nAccording to Michael Taft, Ramakrishna reconciled the dualism of formless and form. Ramakrishna regarded the Supreme Being to be both Personal and Impersonal, active and inactive. According to Anil Sooklal, Vivekananda's neo-Advaita \"reconciles Dvaita or dualism and Advaita or non-dualism\".\n\nRadhakrishnan acknowledged the reality and diversity of the world of experience, which he saw as grounded in and supported by the absolute or Brahman. Radhakrishnan also reinterpreted Shankara's notion of \"maya\". According to Radhakrishnan, maya is not a strict absolute idealism, but \"a subjective misperception of the world as ultimately real\".\n\nGandhi endorsed the Jain concept of Anekantavada, the notion that truth and reality are perceived differently from diverse points of view, and that no single point of view is the complete truth. This concept embraces the perspectives of both Vedānta which, according to Jainism, \"recognizes substances but not process\", and Buddhism, which \"recognizes process but not substance\". Jainism, on the other hand, pays equal attention to both substance (\"dravya\") and process (\"paryaya\").\n\nAccording to Sarma, who stands in the tradition of Nisargadatta Maharaj, Advaitavāda means \"spiritual non-dualism or absolutism\", in which opposites are \"manifestations\" of the Absolute, which itself is immanent and transcendent.\n\nA central concern in Neo-Vedanta is the role of \"sruti\", sacred texts, versus (personal) experience. Classical Advaita Vedanta is centered on the correct understanding of \"sruti\", the sacred texts. Correct understanding of the \"sruti\" is a \"pramana\", a means of knowledge to attain liberation. It takes years of preparation and study to accomplish this task, and includes the mastery of Sanskrit, the memorisation of texts, and the meditation over the interpretation of those texts. Understanding is called \"anubhava\", knowledge or understanding derived from (personal) experience. \"Anubhava\" removes \"Avidya\", ignorance, regarding Brahman and Atman, and leads to \"moksha\", liberation. In neo-Vedanta, the status of \"sruti\" becomes secondary, and \"personal experience\" itself becomes the primary means to liberation.\n\nAccording to Ninian Smart, Neo-Vedanta is \"largely a smarta account.\" In modern times Smarta-views have been highly influential in both the Indian and western understanding of Hinduism. According to iskcon.org, \nVaitheespara notes adherence of Smartha Brahmans to \"the pan-Indian Sanskrit-Brahmanical tradition\":\nThe majority of members of Smarta community follow the Advaita Vedanta philosophy of Shankara. Smarta and Advaita have become almost synonymous, though not all Advaitins are Smartas. Shankara was a Smarta, just like Radhakrishnan. Smartas believe in the essential oneness of five (panchadeva) or six (Shanmata deities as personifications of the Supreme. According to Smartism, supreme reality, Brahman, transcends all of the various forms of personal deity. God is both Saguna and Nirguna:\nLola Williamson further notes that \"what is called Vedic in the smarta tradition, and in much of Hinduism, is essentially Tantric in its range of deities and liturgical forms.\"\n\nNeo-Vedanta was popularised in the 20th century in both India and the west by Vivekananda, Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan, and western orientalists who regarded Vedanta to be the \"central theology of Hinduism\".\n\nNeo-Vedanta has become a broad current in Indian culture, extending far beyond the Dashanami Sampradaya, the Advaita Vedanta Sampradaya founded by Adi Shankara. The influence of Neo-Vedanta on Indian culture has been called \"Vedanticization\" by Richard King.\n\nAn example of this \"Vedanticization\" is Ramana Maharshi, who is regarded as one of the greatest Hindu-saints of modern times, of whom Sharma notes that \"among all the major figures of modern Hinduism [he] is the one person who is widely regarded as a \"jivanmukti\"\". Although Sharma admits that Ramana was not acquainted with Advaita Vedanta before his personal experience of liberation, and Ramana never received initiation into the Dashanami Sampradaya or any other sampradaya, Sharma nevertheless sees Ramana's answers to questions by devotees as being within an Advaita Vedanta framework.\n\nIn response to the British dominance and the British critique of Hinduism, various visions on Indian diversity and unity have been developed within the nationalistic and reform movements.\n\nThe Brahmo Samaj strived towards monotheism, while no longer regarding the Vedas as sole religious authority. The Brahmo Samaj had a strong influence on the Neo-Vedanta of Vivekananda, Aurobindo, Radhakrishnan and Gandhi, who strived toward a modernized, humanistic Hinduism with an open eye for societal problems and needs. Other groups, like the Arya Samaj, strived toward a revival of Vedic authority. In this context, various responses toward India's diversity developed.\n\nIn modern times, the orthodox measure of the primacy of the Vedas has been joined with the 'grand narrative' of the Vedic origins of Hinduism. The exclusion of Jainism and Buddhism excludes a substantial part of India's cultural and religious history from the asserttion of a strong and positive Hindu identity. Hindutva-ideology solves this problem by taking recourse to the notion of \"Hindutva\", \"Hinduness\", which includes Jainism and Buddhism. A recent strategy, exemplified by Rajiv Malhotra, is the use of the term \"dharma\" as a common denominator, which also includes Jainism and Buddhism.\n\nAccording to Larson, Malhotra's notion of \"the so-called \"Dharma” traditions\" and their \"integral unity\" is another example of \"neo-Hindu discourse\". Malhotra, in his \"Being Different\", uses the term \"Dharmic tradition\" or \"dharmic systems\", \"referring to all the Hindu, Buddhist, Jaina and Sikh traditions\". He proposes that those traditions, despite their differences, share common features, the most important being \"Dharma\". They are also characterised by the notion of \"Integral Unity\", which means that \"ultimately only the whole exists; the parts that make up the whole have but a relative existence. The whole is independent and indivisible\", as opposed to \"Synthetic Unity\", which \"starts with parts that exist separately from one another\". Malhotra has received strong criticism of his ideas, for 'glossing over' the differences between and even within the various traditions of India.\n\nIn response, Malhotra explains that some of his critics confused \"integral unity\" with \"homogeneity\", thinking that Malhotra said all those traditions are essentially the same, when he actually wrote that Dharmic traditions share a sense of an \"integral unity\" despite differences.\n\nAccording to Rinehart, neo-Vedanta is \"a theological scheme for subsuming religious difference under the aegis of Vedantic truth\". According to Rinehart, the consequence of this line of reasoning is Communalism, the idea that \"all people belonging to one religion have common economic, social and political interests and these interests are contrary to the interests of those belonging to another religion.\" Communalism has become a growing force in Indian politics, presenting several threats to India, hindring its nation-building and threatening \"the secular, democratic character of the Indian state\".\n\nRinehart notes that Hindu religiosity plays an important role in the nationalist movement, and that \"the neo-Hindu discource is the unintended consequence of the initial moves made by thinkers like Rammohan Roy and Vivekananda.\" But Rinehart also points out that it is \nNeo-Vedanta has been influenced by western ideas, but has also had a reverse influence on western spirituality. Due to the colonisation of Asia by the western world, since the late 18th century an exchange of ideas has been taking place between the western world and Asia, which also influenced western religiosity. In 1785 appeared the first western translation of a Sanskrit-text. It marked the growing interest in the Indian culture and languages. The first translation of Upanishads appeared in two parts in 1801 and 1802, which influenced Arthur Schopenhauer, who called them \"the consolation of my life\". Early translations also appeared in other European languages.\n\nA major force in the mutual influence of eastern and western ideas and religiosity was the Theosophical Society. It searched for ancient wisdom in the east, spreading eastern religious ideas in the west. One of its salient features was the belief in \"Masters of Wisdom\", \"beings, human or once human, who have transcended the normal frontiers of knowledge, and who make their wisdom available to others\". The Theosophical Society also spread western ideas in the east, aiding a modernisation of eastern traditions, and contributing to a growing nationalism in the Asian colonies. Another major influence was Vivekananda, who popularised his modernised interpretation of Advaita Vedanta in the 19th and early 20th century in both India and the west, emphasising \"anubhava\" (\"personal experience\") over scriptural authority.\n\nAccording to Larson, the \"solution of synthesis\" prevailed in the work of Rammohun Roy, Sayyid Ahmed Khan, Rabindranath Tagore, Swami Vivekananda, M.K. Gandhi, Muhammad Ali Jinnah, Muhammad Iqbal, V.D. Savarkar, Jawaharlal Nehru, \"and many others\". Spear voices appraisal of this \"solution of synthesis\", while G.R. Sharma emphasises the humanism of neo-Vedanta.\n\nVivekenanda's presentation of Advaita Vedanta has been criticised for its misinterpretation of this tradition:\nAccording to Anantanand Rambachan, Vivekananda emphasised \"anubhava\" (\"personal experience\") over scriptural authority, but in his interpretation of Shankara, deviated from Shankara, who saw knowledge and understanding of the scriptures as the primary means to moksha. According to Comans, the emphasis on samadhi also is not to be found in the Upanishads nor with Shankara. For Shankara, meditation and Nirvikalpa Samadhi are means to gain knowledge of the already existing unity of Brahman and Atman.\n\nIn the 21st century, Neo-Vedanta has been criticized by Hindu traditionalists for the influence of \"Radical Universalism\", arguing that it leads to a \"self-defeating philosophical relativism,\" and has weakened the status and strength of Hinduism.\n\nIn the 20th century the German Indologist used the terms \"Neo-Vedanta\" and \"Neo-Hinduism\" polemically, to criticize modern Hindu thinkers. Halbfass regards the terms \"Neo-Vedanta\" and \"Neo-Hinduism\" as \"useful and legitimate as convenient labels\", but has criticized Hacker for use that was \"simplistic\". Furthermore, he asks,\nHalbfass wrote that the adoption of the terms \nBagchee and Adluri argue that German Indology, including Hacker, was merely \"a barely disguised form of religious evangelism\".\n\nAccording to Malhotra, an Indian-American Hindu writer, it was Paul Hacker who popularized the term 'neo-Hinduism' in the 1950s, \"to refer to the modernization of Hinduism brought about by many Indian thinkers, the most prominent being Swami Vivekananda.\" In Malhotra's view, \"Hacker charged that 'neo-Hindus', most notably Vivekananda, have disingenuously adopted Western ideas and expressed them using Sanskrit.\" Malhotra also notes that Hacker was a biased Christian apologist: \nAccording to David Smith, Hacker's belief was that the ethical values of 'neo-Hinduism\" came from Western philosophy and Christianity, just in Hindu terms. Hacker also believed that Hinduism began in the 1870's. He saw Bankin Chattopadhyaya, Aruobindo, Gandhi, and Radhakishnan as its most famous proponents.\n\nBrian K. Smith notes that \"The Neo-Hindu indigenous authorities are often dismissed as 'inauthentic,' their claims to legitimacy compromised by their encounters with modernity\", which influenced their worldview and religious positions, but points out that \nAccording to Madaio, the notion that Vivekananda and other Hindu modernists deviate from orthodox, classical Advaita Vedanta, neglects the fact that considerable developments took place in Indian religious thinking, including Advaita Vedanta.\n\nRajiv Malhotra, in his book Indra's Net, has stated that there is a \"myth of Neo-Hinduism\". According to him, there are \"eight myths\" of Neo-Hinduism such as \"colonial Indology's biases were turned into Hinduism\" (Myth 2) and \"Hinduism was manufactured and did not grow organically\" (Myth 3). Malhotra denies that \"Vivekananda manufactured Hinduism\", or that `neo-Vedanta' suppressed \"the traditions of the Indian masses.\" According to Malhotra, there is \"an integrated, unified spiritual substratum in ancient India,\" and argues that\nAccording to Malhotra, the 'myth of neo-Hinduism' \"is used to fragment Hindu society by pitting its spiritual giants against one another and distorting their subtle and deeply intricate viewpoints.\" Also according to him, \"the definition of neo-Hinduism has been contrived and [...] gained authenticity, in part because it suits certain academic and political agendas, and in part because it has been reiterated extensively without adequate critical response.\"\n\n\n\nHistory\n\nCriticism\n"}
{"id": "40643899", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40643899", "title": "Neuroanatomy of intimacy", "text": "Neuroanatomy of intimacy\n\nEven though intimacy has been broadly defined in terms of romantic love and sexual desire, the neuroanatomy of intimacy needs further explanation in order to fully understand their neurological functions in different components within intimate relationships, which are romantic love, lust, attachment, and rejection in love. Also, known functions of the neuroanatomy involved can be applied to observations seen in people who are experiencing any of the stages in intimacy. Research analysis of these systems provide insight on the biological basis of intimacy, but the neurological aspect must be considered as well in areas that require special attention to mitigate issues in intimacy, such as violence against a beloved partner or problems with social bonding.\n\nPair bonding, or intense social attachment, normally initiates partner preference in sexual situations and monogamy in many mammalian species. Monogamous species generally exhibit an exclusive responsibility to each other as well as co-parenting to their offspring. Studies using monogamous prairie voles (\"Microtus ochrogaster\") showed that forming a pair bond stimulated the mesolimbic dopaminergic pathway. In this pathway, dopamine is released from the ventral tegmental area (VTA) to the nucleus accumbens and prefrontal cortex, which then signals the ventral pallidum to complete reward processing in the pathway. \n\nTwo important neuropeptides that mediated pair bond formation were oxytocin and arginine vasopressin (AVP). Even though both males and females have both molecules, oxytocin was shown to be predominantly in females and vasopressin predominantly promoted pair bonding in males. Receptor specificity was shown essential for mating by activating the dopamine D2 receptors in the nucleus accumbens in both male and female prairie voles. Other locations that were also activated in the study were gender specific, such as oxytocin receptors (OTR) in the prefrontal cortex and AVP 1a receptors (V1aR) in the ventral pallidum.\n\nRomantic love is described as involving an individual who pays closer attention to another individual in special ways, involving attention on traits worthy to pursue. Through functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI), studies have shown that the right ventral tegmental area (VTA) is stimulated when subjects are shown a picture of their beloved. As part of the reward mechanism, the VTA signals to other parts of the brain, such as the caudate nucleus to release dopamine for reward. \n\nOlder studies have generally attributed love to the limbic system consisting of the temporal lobes, hypothalamus, amygdala as well as the hippocampus. These functional components of the limbic system are important components of emotional processing, motivation, and memory. Specifically, current research also suggests components, such as the hypothalamus, as playing a role in romantic love because it possesses the penchant for bonding in mammals by secreting the neuropeptides, oxytocin and vasopressin. Other research has implicated nerve growth factor (NGF), a neurotrophin that is fundamental in the neuron survival and development in the nervous system, in early-stage romantic love in subjects experiencing euphoria and emotional dependency, which is often a characteristic in romantic love.\n\nLust, also known as libido, is defined as pursuing sexual gratification. It is primarily driven by the endocrine system, but the brain is also involved in neural processing. Specifically, the hypothalamic-pituitary-gonadal (HPG) and hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axes play primary roles in the priming for sex as well as the stress response, respectively. Because intimacy is motivated by the reward system, steroid hormones activate desire to promote partner preference and social attachment in the process of sexual union. Dopamine is then released when an individual is aroused, which associates lust as a product of the dopaminergic reward system.\n\nHowever, interactions of sex and romantic love do not have the same goal orientation, which helps to confirm the difference in brain activation patterns. Contrasting with the primary goal of romantic love, copulation can occur without two individuals being in romantic love or having a monogamous bond. Sometimes, copulation might not even occur in romantic love relationships. However, it still does play a role in successful reproduction when it is supplemented with romantic love.\n\nRejection in love is considered unrequited or unreciprocated love. Separation from a loved one can cause grief and sometimes lead to an individual expressing characteristics of depression. In a study, symptoms seen in nine women who had experienced a recent breakup suggested involvement of certain neuroanatomy. Eating, sleeping, and neuroendocrine regulation was associated with the hypothalamus, anhedonia was associated with the ventral striatum and the amygdala was associated with emotional processing in these women. \n\nOther neuroanatomy that registered unrequited love included the cerebellum, insular cortex, anterior cingulate cortex, and prefrontal cortex. All of the areas that were activated showed decreased activity when subjects emotionally reflected about the beloved rejecter. \nIn contrast, another study observed significant increase in activation in the VTA as well as the nucleus accumbens. Further, those rejected in love had higher stimulation in the right nucleus accumbens and ventral putamen/pallidum compared to subjects who were in romantic love This study ultimately showed that areas that are activated in romantic love are also activated in rejection in love. Results from this study suggest that rejected lovers have same stimulation of brain regions because they are still \"in love\" with their rejecters. Since romantic love follows the dopaminergic reward system, the anticipatory nature of receiving a reward as well as deciding on losses and gains in decision making, allows the neural circuitry to become adaptable. This allows the rejected to change their behavior through two stages. The first is the \"protest\" stage where they try to win back the rejecter. The second stage or the \"rejection\" stage is where they feel resignation and despair, eventually leading to continuing life without the rejecter. On the other hand, the involvement of the reward gain/loss pathways intrinsic to survival provides insight on behaviors of stalking, suicide, obsessiveness and depression.\n\nAn attachment between a mother and child arises from behavioral changes during birth, which includes lactation. Release of oxytocin is important in the birthing process for the mother–child pair bond to occur in both individuals. Lactation relies on the constant release of oxytocin for the release of milk in the breast, which strengthens the first social bond of the infant and the mother.\n\nAlthough this is considered another type of social attachment that activates the same reward system, maternal attachment activates different regions of the brain compared to those in partner attachment. In one study, overlap of activated brain regions with romantic love was found to include the nucleus accumbens, putamen, caudate nucleus, which are important in social attachment. However, the only regions that were specific to maternal love were the orbitofrontal and lateral prefrontal cortex as well as the occipital and lateral fusiform cortex. Moreover, oxytocin is important between the mother and her offspring, so it is suggested that oxytocin deficiency can influence how successfully the offspring is able to form a monogamous pair bond with another individual in the future. This may provide insight on issues with formation of pair bonds as well as psychological problems from an inefficient upbringing.\n\nLove activates the same neural circuitry as maladaptive drugs, such as cocaine. Dopaminergic reward pathways are involved to elicit a response of gaining a reward and reinforcement, thereby leading some researchers to believe that love is addictive. Love and drugs of abuse stimulate similar levels of dopamine for reward and reinforcement from the VTA. Actions between the two mental states are very similar with those in love experiencing excessive exhilaration, insomnia, anxiety, and loss of appetite also seen in drug users. Also, brain activity observed through single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) showed that dopamine release in the basal ganglia of a subject who was romantically in love appeared similar to a subject addicted to cocaine. Although love is suggested to be addictive based on its neurological circuitry, it cannot be simplified as addictive because it is expressed in different ways across a wide spectrum.\n\nThe amygdala, a key player in emotional processing, is suggested different between men and women. In males, emotions are considered to be primarily directed from the right hemisphere; on the other hand, it is primarily directed from the left hemisphere in females.\n\nOne study that tested positively and negatively valenced words on both male and female subjects found that emotional processing was indeed gender specific. In males, positively valenced words activated the left sensimotor cortex, angular gyrus, left hippocampus, left frontal eye field and the right cerebellum, while females had activations in the right putamen, right superior temporal gyrus, left supramarginal gyrus, left inferior frontal gyrus and the left sensorimotor cortex. By contrast, negatively valenced words stimulated greater activation in the right supramarginal gyrus in males, while greater activation in the left part of the hippocampus with negative stimuli. Therefore, different brain regions in males and females could allude to differential responses emotional processing in intimate situations.\n\nKnown as the insecure feeling of a partner in regards to losing their loved one to another, jealousy can result in extreme situations such as violence and abuse from the insecure partner to their beloved. In one study, men and women were shown sentences that suggested sexual and emotional infidelity and rated the intensity of jealousy that they felt.\n\nIn males, activation of brain areas that were induced by sexual infidelity laden statements included the visual cortex, middle temporal gyrus, amygdala, hippocampus, and claustrum. In females, the visual cortex, middle frontal gyrus, thalamus, and cerebellum were activated. It was found that males showed more stimulation in the amygdala in regards to sexual infidelity, while females showed greater activation in the visual cortex and thalamus. The regions in the male brain provided insight on neuroanatomy associated with sexual and aggressive behavior. These regions could be studied further in increased violent cases against partners, which are commonly due to male aggression.\n\nIn males, the visual cortex, medial frontal gyrus, middle frontal gyrus, precentral gyrus, cingulate cortex, insula, hippocampus, thalamus, caudate, hypothalamus, and cerebellum were shown to be activated. In females, activations in the visual cortex, medial frontal gyrus, middle frontal gyrus, angular gyrus, thalamus, and cerebellum were noted. Male activations were greater in the precentral gyrus, insula, hippocampus, hypothalamus, and cerebellum, while women shower greater activations in the visual cortex, angular gyrus, and thalamus. Regions in the female brain have been implicated in detection of intention, deception, and trustworthiness of others. It is ultimately suggested that the different emotional processing in males and females contributes to the different responses in issues in intimate relationships.\n\n"}
{"id": "21460949", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21460949", "title": "Nicholas Hill (scientist)", "text": "Nicholas Hill (scientist)\n\nNicholas Hill (1570 – c. 1610) was an English natural philosopher, considered a disciple of Giordano Bruno. He is known for his 1601 book \"Philosophia epicurea\".\n\nHe was educated at Merchant Taylors' School and St John's College, Oxford where he matriculated in 1587, graduated B.A. and became Fellow in 1590. He was removed from his fellowshop in 1591.\nAfter a possible position as secretary or steward to Edward de Vere, 17th Earl of Oxford, he was supported by Henry Percy, 9th Earl of Northumberland. He was said to be a Catholic convert, by John Aubrey, but this is doubted by Christopher Hill. Aubrey's account also has him a close friend of Robert Hues, at the centre of the Northumberland circle. He left England and resided in Rotterdam, with his son. Hugh Trevor-Roper considers that he was a Catholic, and for that reason expelled from St John's. He also associates Hill with the plot of Sir Robert Basset. According to an account of Hues recorded by Obadiah Walker, Hill's son died and he then committed suicide.\n\nJohn Donne satirized Hill in his \"Catalogus Librorum Aulicum\"; and he was attacked and mocked by Ben Jonson (epigram 133/134).\n\n\"Philosophia epicurea, democritiana, theophrastica\" was a work on the classical atomism of Epicurus and skepticism. It consisted of 509 aphorisms, which drew on Bruno and Lullism, Neoplatonism and Paracelsus, as well as classical authors. It was published in 1601 (Paris), and in another edition in 1619 (Geneva). It included thoughts on an imaginary voyage to the Moon, a theme taken from Bruno. It also shows a close relation to Bruno's \"De Immenso\" and \"De Minimo\". Other influences were Democritus, Hermes Trismegistus and William Gilbert. He was a Copernican, perhaps also following Francesco Patrizi. Hill, however, stops short of exploring atomism as a mechanistic philosophy. Robert Kargon considers that Hill was not, in strict terms, an Epicurean, reserving to Walter Charleton the first English exposition of Epicurean thought.\n\nThe \"Philosophia epicurea\" was known to John Donne, through Ben Jonson's copy. It was referenced in Robert Burton's \"Anatomy of Melancholy\".\n\nAccording to Robert Hues, other unpublished work followed Bruno.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28358018", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28358018", "title": "Oliver Chase Quick", "text": "Oliver Chase Quick\n\nOliver Chase Quick (21 June 1885 – 21 January 1944) was an English theologian, philosopher, and Anglican priest.\n\nOliver Quick was born on 21 June 1885 in Sedbergh, Yorkshire, the son of the educationist Robert Hebert Quick and Bertha Parr. He was educated at Harrow School and studied classics and theology at Corpus Christi College, Oxford.\n\nQuick married Frances Winifred Pearson, a niece of Karl Pearson.\n\nQuick was ordained in 1911 and to the priesthood in 1912. Prior to becoming chaplain to the Archbishop of Canterbury in 1915, he was a vice-principal of Leeds Clergy School and then a curate at St Martin-in-the-Fields, London. He was given his first incumbency in 1918 in his appointment to the vicarage of Kenley, Surrey. He went on to be appointed to residentiary canonries of Newcastle (1920), Carlisle (1923), and St Paul's (1930). He became a professor of theology at Durham University in 1934 and was appointed to a canonry of Durham Cathedral \"ex officio\". He moved to Oxford in 1939, having been appointed to the Regius Professorship of Divinity at the University of Oxford, which carried with it a canonry of Christ Church Cathedral. He remained in the post until his death in 1944.\n\nIn his works he advocated the doctrines of soul sleep and conditional immortality. He was one of the leading exponents of orthodox Anglicanism and upheld a position similar to that of the authors of \"Essays Catholic and Critical\" (1926). He followed systematic and synthetic rather than historical methods and expressed his thought in a modern way.\n\nQuick died on 21 January 1944 in Longborough, Gloucestershire, and was buried four days later in the churchyard in Longborough.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22781", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22781", "title": "Omniscience", "text": "Omniscience\n\nOmniscience () is the capacity to know everything. In monotheistic religions, such as Sikhism and the Abrahamic religions, this is an attribute of God. In some other religions that do not include a supreme deity, such as Buddhism and Jainism, omniscience is an attribute that any individual can eventually attain.\n\nIn Islam, Allah is attributed with absolute omniscience. He knows the past, the present and the future. It is compulsory for a Muslim to believe that Allah is indeed omniscient as stated in one of the six articles of faith which is :\n\nIt is however, believed that human can only change their predestination (wealth, health, deed etc.) and not divine decree (date of birth, date of death, family etc.), thus allowing free wills.\n\nThe topic of omniscience has been much debated in various Indian traditions, but no more so than by the Buddhists. After Dharmakirti's excursions into the subject of what constitutes a valid cognition, Śāntarakṣita and his student Kamalaśīla thoroughly investigated the subject in the Tattvasamgraha and its commentary the Panjika. The arguments in the text can be broadly grouped into four sections:\n\nSome modern Christian theologians argue that God's omniscience is inherent rather than total, and that God chooses to limit his omniscience in order to preserve the freewill and dignity of his creatures. John Calvin, among other theologians of the 16th century, comfortable with the definition of God as being omniscient in the total sense, in order for worthy beings' abilities to choose freely, embraced the doctrine of predestination.\n\nIn Jainism, omniscience is considered the highest type of perception. In the words of a Jain scholar,\n\"The perfect manifestation of the innate nature of the self, arising on the complete annihilation of the obstructive veils, is called omniscience.\"\n\nJainism views infinite knowledge as an inherent capability of every soul. \"Arihanta\" is the word used by Jains to refer to those human beings who have conquered all inner passions (like attachment, greed, pride, anger) and possess \"Kevala Jnana\" (infinite knowledge). They are said to be of two kinds:\n\nWhether omniscience, particularly regarding the choices that a human will make, is compatible with free will has been debated by theologians and philosophers. The argument that divine foreknowledge is not compatible with free will is known as theological fatalism. It is argued that if humans are free to choose between alternatives, God could not know what this choice will be.\n\nA question arises: if an omniscient entity knows everything, even about its own decisions in the future, does it therefore forbid any free will to that entity? William Lane Craig states that the question subdivides into two:\n\nHowever, this kind of argument fails to recognize its use of the modal fallacy. It is possible to show that the first premise of arguments like these is fallacious. \n\nSome philosophers, such as Patrick Grim, Linda Zagzebski, Stephan Torre and William Mander have discussed the issue of whether the apparent exclusively first-person nature of conscious experience is compatible with God's omniscience. There is a strong sense in which conscious experience is private, meaning that no outside observer can gain knowledge of what it is like to be me \"as me\". If a subject cannot know what it is like to be another subject in an objective manner, the question is whether that limitation applies to God as well. If it does, then God cannot be said to be omniscient since there is then a form of knowledge that God lacks access to.\n\nThe philosopher Patrick Grim most notably raised this issue. Linda Zagzebski tried to avoid it by introducing the notion of \"perfect empathy\", a proposed relation that God can have to subjects that would allow God to have perfect knowledge of their conscious experience. William Mander argued that God can only have such knowledge if our experiences are part of God's broader experience. Stephan Torre claimed that God can have such knowledge if self-knowledge involves the ascription of properties, either to oneself or to others. Patrick Grim saw this line of reasoning as a motivation for accepting atheism.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6970758", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6970758", "title": "Ordinary Mind Zen School", "text": "Ordinary Mind Zen School\n\nThe Ordinary Mind Zen School is a network of independent Zen centers established by Charlotte Joko Beck and her Dharma Successors in 1995.\n\nThe school is unaffiliated with any Zen centers which fall outside of its own network. The history of the Ordinary Mind Zen School dates back to 1983, which was the year that Joko Beck had left the Zen Center of Los Angeles. That was the year her teacher, Hakuyu Taizan Maezumi, had been confronted by his students about his alcoholism and sexual liaisons with some female students. Joko Beck established the Zen Center of San Diego in 1983, currently run by Ezra Bayda and Elizabeth Hamilton, though Joko Beck had disassociated herself from these teachers.\n\nAccording to Richard Hughes Seager, \"By 1998, the Ordinary Mind School had centers in San Diego, Champaign, Illinois, Oakland, California, Portland, Oregon and New York City.\" There is no one set structure of curriculum in the Ordinary Mind School, as the Dharma Successors of Joko Beck get to decide their method of training independent of any organizational head. Long before retirement, Joko Beck had done away with all titles and no longer wore her okesa. She had distanced herself considerably from her roots in the Sōtō school, and much of the ceremony had been abandoned in favor of pure meditation practice.\n\n\nDissolved Groups\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17821860", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17821860", "title": "Papal diplomatics", "text": "Papal diplomatics\n\nPapal diplomatics is the scholarly and critical study (diplomatics) of the authentic documents of the Papacy, largely to distinguish them from spurious documents. The study emerges in the Middle Ages and has been further refined in the centuries since. \n\nThe authenticity of papal Bulls, alongside royal charters and other legal instruments, became a matter of concern in the Middle Ages. The Papal Chancery oversaw control of documents and precautions taken against forgery. Pope Gregory VII refrained even from attaching the usual leaden seal to a Bull for fear it should fall into unscrupulous hands and be used for fraudulent purposes, while Pope Innocent III issued instructions with a view to the detection of forgeries. An ecclesiastic of the standing of Lanfranc has been seriously accused of conniving at the fabrication of Bulls, and so the need of some system of tests became obvious.\n\nBut the medieval criticism of documents was not very satisfactory even in the hands of a jurist like Pope Alexander III. Though Laurentius Valla, the humanist, was right in denouncing the Donation of Constantine, and though the Magdeburg Centuriator, Matthias Flacius, was right in attacking the Pseudo-Isidorian Decretals, their methods, in themselves, were often crude and inconclusive. The modern discipline of diplomatics really dates only from the time of the Benedictine Dom Jean Mabillon (1632–1707), whose fundamental work, \"De Re Diplomatica\" (Paris, 1681), was written to correct the principles advocated in the criticism of ancient documents by the Bollandist, Daniel Papebroch.\n\nScholars including Barthélemy Germon (1663–1718) and Jean Hardouin in France, and, to a lesser degree, George Hickes in England, rejected Mabillon's criteria; but all that has been done since Mabillon's time has been to develop his methods and occasionally to modify his judgements upon some point of detail. After the issue of a \"Supplement\" in 1704, a second, enlarged and improved edition of the \"De Re Diplomatica\" was prepared by Mabillon himself and published in 1709, after his death, by his pupil Thierry Ruinart. This pioneer work had not extended to any documents later than the thirteenth century and had taken no account of certain classes of papers, such as the ordinary letters of the popes and privileges of a more private character. Two other Maurists, Dom Toustain and Dom Tassin, compiled a work in six large quarto volumes, with many facsimiles etc., known as the \"Nouveau Traité de Diplomatique\" (Paris, 1750–1765). It was a small advance on Mabillon's own treatise, but was widely used; and was presented in a more summary form by François Jean de Vaines, and others.\n\nWith the exception of some useful works directed at particular countries, as also the treatise of Luigi Gaetano Marini on papyrus documents, no great advance was made in the science for a century and a half after Mabillon's death. The \"Dictionnaire raisonné de diplomatique chrétienne\" by Maximilien Quantin, which forms part of Migne's \"Encyclopedia\", is a digest of older works; and the sumptuous \"Eléments de paléographie\" of de Wailly (2 vols, 1838) has little independent merit.\nIn the second half of the 19th century the field was active, with the names of Léopold Delisle, the chief librarian of the Bibliothèque Nationale, Paris, M. de Mas-Latrie, professor at the Ecole de Chartres, and Julius von Pflugk-Harttung, the editor of a series of facsimiles of papal Bulls. A calendar of early papal Bulls began appearing from 1902, the results of researches of P. Kehr, A. Brackmann, and W. Wiederhold, in \"Nachrichten der Göttingen Gesellsehaft der Wissenschaften\". Papal regesta were published, especially by members of the Ecole Française de Rome.\n\nOfficials concerned with the preparation of the documents collectively formed the Chancery. The constitution of the Chancery, which in the case of the Holy See seems to date back to a \"schola notariorum\", with a \"primicerius\" at its head, of which we hear under Pope Julius I (337–352), varied from period to period, and the part played by the different officials composing it necessarily varied also. Besides the Holy See, each bishop also had some sort of chancery for the issue of his own episcopal Acts. The procedure of the Chancery is only a study preparatory to the examination of the document itself.\n\nSecondly, we have the text of the document. As the position of the Holy See became more fully recognized, the business of the Chancery increased, and there arose a marked tendency to adhere strictly to the forms prescribed by traditional usage. Various collections of these formulae, of which the \"Liber Diurnus\" is one of the most ancient, were compiled at an early date. Many others will be found in the \"Recueil général des formules\" of Eugène de Rozière (Paris, 1861–1871), though these, like the series published by Zeumer, are mainly secular in character.\n\nAfter the text of the document, which of course varies according to its nature, and in which not merely the wording but also the rhythm (the so-called \"cursus\") has often to be considered, attention must be paid:\n\n\nAll these matters fall within the scope of diplomatics, and all offer different tests for the authenticity of any given document. There are other details which often need to be considered, for example the Tironian notes (or shorthand), which are of not infrequent occurrence in primitive \"Urkunden\", both papal and imperial. A special section in any comprehensive study of diplomatics is also likely to be devoted to spurious documents: the number is surprisingly great.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21744637", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21744637", "title": "Paul Copan", "text": "Paul Copan\n\nPaul Copan (, born September 26, 1962) is a Christian theologian, analytic philosopher, apologist, and author. He is currently a professor at the Palm Beach Atlantic University and holds the endowed Pledger Family Chair of Philosophy and Ethics. He has written and edited over 25 books in the area of philosophy of religion, apologetics, theology, science & religion, and the historicity of Jesus Christ. He has contributed many articles to professional journals and has written many essays for edited books. For six years he served as the president of the Evangelical Philosophical Society.\n\nPaul Copan's father, Valery Copan, is of Ukrainian origin, and his mother, Valtraut (Kirsch) Copan, was born in Riga, Latvia. He was born in Cleveland, Ohio and then moved to Connecticut as a teenager.\n\nFrom 1980-1984, he attended Columbia International University and earned a B.A. degree in biblical studies. Copan attended Trinity International University, where he received his M.A. in philosophy of religion, as well as his M.Div. At Trinity International. Copan received the Prof. C.B. Bjuge Award for a thesis that “evidences creative scholarship in the field of Biblical and Systematic Theology.”\n\nIn May 2000, Copan received his Ph.D. in philosophy of religion from Marquette University in Milwaukee, Wisconsin. His dissertation topic was \"The Moral Dimensions of Michael Martin’s Atheology: A Critical Assessment.\"\n\nCopan started his career on the pastoral staff of First Presbyterian Church in Schenectady, NY.\n\nHe served with Ravi Zacharias International Ministries and was Adjunct Associate Professor at Trinity International University (Deerfield, Illinois). He was Adjunct Associate Professor of Theology and Philosophy at Bethel Seminary. He was Adjunct Associate Professor of Philosophy at Georgia Perimter College.\n\nCurrently, Copan is the Pledger Family Chair of Philosophy and Ethics/Professor, Philosophy and Ethics at Palm Beach Atlantic University in West Palm Beach, FL, where he received the Mentor of the Year award.\n\nHe has criticized the presumption of atheism, i.e. the notion that atheism should be one's default position when evaluating arguments over the existence of God. He argues that such a position rigs the rules, since atheism is just as much a claim to knowledge as theism. The only natural default position is agnosticism. Copan cites atheists such as Baggini and Flew in arguing that atheism is not a mere lack of belief but a rejection of belief in God or gods. He argues that atheists often slide into defending agnosticism when asked for reasons for their view.\n\nHe suggests that scientific naturalists will argue that all claims of knowledge have to be scientifically verifiable; otherwise, they are meaningless. Copan argues that such a position commits the fallacy exemplified in \"Horton Hears a Who\". \"If you cannot see, hear or feel something, it does not exist.\" Copan argues that this position is an arbitrary philosophical (rather than scientific) pronouncement. He also argues that the position of the scientific naturalist is self-refuting because scientism itself cannot be scientifically verified.\n\nCopan also believes that belief in God is generally not a psychological crutch, claiming that the argument that Christianity is wish fulfillment itself falls victim to a number of fallacies. Freud himself admitted to Oskar Pfister that psychoanalysis of religion has no clinical evidence, and are merely Freud's personal views. Copan also argues that it is odd and arbitrary to claim that whatever brings comfort and solace is false. He notes that comforting father figure, while unique to the biblical faith, is not at the heart of the other world religions. Copan also notes that the wish fulfillment argument against Christianity is a classic example of the genetic fallacy, claiming that because one can explain how the belief arose, that the belief is therefore false.\n\nCopan is also a critic of presuppositionalism, arguing that Christians can use common ground to engage non-Christians in debate. He argues that presuppositionalism begs the question. It assumes that God exists in order to argue that God exists. Instead, Christians can begin dialogues with non-Christians with common ground such as the law of non-contradiction. Copan uses Genesis 9:6 to make his point. He claims that the image of God was not completely destroyed in the fall, meaning that non-Christians can respond to general revelation, arguments from cosmology and history, as well as personal testimony and living a godly life. Ultimately, Copan argues, presuppositionalism confuses private knowledge of God with public proclamation and argument for God. One can have epistemic certainty of God's existence from private experience and still appeal to public evidence to persuade others of that fact.\n\nCopan is known for his defense of the ethics of the Old Testament, particularly divine command morality.\n\nHe argues that the books of Joshua and Judges are literarily connected, and therefore need to be read in light of one another. The book of Judges demonstrates that military engagement. The sweeping words like “all,” “young and old,” and “man and woman,” however, are stock expressions for totality — even if women and children were not present. This stereotypical ancient Near East language of “all” people describes attacks on what turn out to be military forts or garrisons containing combatants — not a general population that includes women and children.\n\nCopan states that we have no archaeological evidence of civilian populations at Jericho or Ai. At first glance, it appears that Joshua captured all the land, defeated all the kings, and destroyed all the Canaanites. Joshua later refers to nations that “remain among you,” and he warns Israel not to mention, swear by, serve, or bow down to their gods, indicating that he did fulfill the command, and yet did not literally obliterate the Canaanite population. Copan states that Joshua uses ancient conventional warfare rhetoric. He notes many other ancient Near East military accounts are full of bravado and exaggeration, depicting total devastation. Ancient Near East readers knew this was massive hyperbole and not literally true.\n\nCopan argues that the Biblical concept of slavery is misunderstood. He says that we should compare Hebrew debt-servanthood (many translations render this “slavery”) more fairly to apprentice-like positions to pay off debts. This resembles indentured servitude during America’s founding when people worked for approximately 7 years to pay off the debt for their passage to the New World. Copan states that God did not allow physical abuse of servants. If a servant was harmed, for example, by having a tooth or eye knocked out, the servant received freedom immediately. Masters that killed their servants were put to death.\n\nHe also argues that the New Testament is not silent on the issue of slavery. During the first century, 85 to 90 percent of Rome’s population consisted of slaves in both lowly and prestigious positions. This was a much higher percent than Israel had in the Old Testament, but this was due to Rome’s policies and laws. Copan uses James 3:9 to argue that the New Testament presupposes a fundamental equality because all humans are created in God’s image. Christian masters called Christian slaves “brothers” or “sisters.” The New Testament commanded masters to show compassion, justice, and patience. Their position as master meant responsibility and service, not oppression and privilege. Given the spiritual equality of slave and free, slaves even took on leadership positions in churches. He states that early Christians undermined slavery indirectly, rejecting many common Greco-Roman assumptions about it and acknowledging the intrinsic, equal worth of slaves.\n\nCopan argues that if the New Testament authors had been too explicit about overthrowing Rome's slavery system, it would have done the gospel a disservice. Rome would have quashed any such flagrant opposition with speedy, lethal force. Copan concludes that the New Testament took a more subversive strategy, by opposing oppression, slave trade, and treating humans as cargo — which eventually led to a slavery-free Europe a few centuries later.\n\nCopan defends the Old Testament imprecatory psalms, which are psalms that call down curses and divine judgments against Israel's enemies. He argues that they fit into the literary genre of the time. He states \"Consider how you would react if a neighbor tried to seduce your daughter or give your children drugs. Outrage indicates that we care and take injustice seriously.\" Copan also compares these psalms to the emotional rants of Jeremiah, wishing he had remained in his mother’s womb until he died. Jeremiah's desire was one of emotional outburst, and he did not sincerely believe what he said. Copan argues that the imprecatory Psalms should be read in the same way.\n\nCopan is married to Jacqueline Mariette (van Tol) Copan, the daughter of Dutch parents, and they have six children.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41713445", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41713445", "title": "Philosophy of medicine", "text": "Philosophy of medicine\n\nThe philosophy of medicine is a branch of philosophy that includes the epistemology, ontology/metaphysics, and ethics of medicine. Perhaps the most well known area is medical ethics, which overlaps with bioethics. It can be distinguished from the philosophy of healthcare, which is mostly concerned with ethical and political issues arising from healthcare research and practice. There are a variety of university courses, journals, books and conferences dedicated to the philosophy of medicine. There is also a new direction, or school, in the philosophy of medicine termed analytic philosophy of medicine.\n\nEpistemology is the study of knowledge. The ways in which health-care professionals (ranging from clinicians to biomedical scientists) come to know and use knowledge, whether as individuals or as groups, are central concerns of medical epistemology. Many different claims to knowledge have been identified.\n\nEvidence-based medicine (EBM) is underpinned by the study of the ways in which we can gain knowledge regarding key clinical questions such as the effects of medical interventions, the accuracy of diagnostic tests, and the predictive value of prognostic markers. EBM provides an account of how medical knowledge can be applied to clinical care. EBM not only provides clinicians with a strategy for best practice, but also, underlying that, a philosophy of evidence.\n\nInterest in the EBM philosophy of evidence has led philosophers to consider the nature of EBM’s hierarchy of evidence, which rank different kinds of research methodology, ostensibly, by the relative evidential weight they provide. While Jeremy Howick provides a critical defense of EBM, most philosophers have raised questions about its legitimacy. Key questions asked about hierarchies of evidence concern the legitimacy of ranking methodologies in terms of the strength of support that they supply; how instances of particular methods may move up and down a hierarchy; as well as how different types of evidence, from different levels in the hierarchies, should be combined. Critics of medical research have raised numerous questions regarding the unreliability of medical research.\n\nAdditionally the epistemological virtues of particular aspects of clinical trial methodology have been examined, mostly notably the special place that is given to randomisation, the notion of a blind experiment and the use of a placebo control.\n\nThere is a large body of work on the ontology of biomedicine, including ontological studies of all aspects of medicine. Ontologies of specific interest to the philosophy of medicine include,\nfor instance: (1) the ontological revolution which made modern science, in general, possible, (2) Cartesian dualism which makes modern medicine, in particular, possible, (3) the monogenenic conception of disease which has informed clinical medicine for a century or so and also the chemical and biological pathways which underlie the phenomena of health and disease in all organisms, (4) the conceptualization of entities such as ‘placebos’ and ‘placebo effects’.\n\nThe ontology of general medical science (OGMS) is an ontology of entities involved in a clinical encounter. It includes a set of logical definitions of very general terms that are used across medical disciplines, including: 'disease', 'disorder', 'disease course', 'diagnosis', and 'patient'. The scope of OGMS is restricted to humans, but many terms can be applied also to other organisms. OGMS provides a formal theory of disease that is elaborated further by specific disease ontologies which extend it, including the Infectious Disease Ontology (IDO) and the Mental Disease Ontology.\n\nRené Descartes made ontological space for modern medicine by separating body from mind – while mind is superior to body as it constitutes the uniqueness of the human soul (the province of theology), body is inferior to mind as it is mere matter. Medicine simply investigated(s) the body as machine. While Cartesian dualism dominates clinical approaches to medical research and treatment, the legitimacy of the split between mind and body has been consistently challenged from a variety of perspectives.\n\nModern medicine, unlike Galenic medicine (which dealt with humours), is mechanistic. For example, when a bit of solid matter such as a poison or a worm impacts upon another bit of matter (when it enters the human body), this sets off a chain of motions, giving rise to disease, just as when one billiard ball knocks into another billiard, the latter is set in motion. When the human body is exposed to the solid pathogen, it falls ill, giving rise to the notion of a disease entity. Later in the history of modern medicine, particularly by the late nineteenth and twentieth centuries, in nosology (which is the classification of disease), the most powerful is the etiogically-defined approach as can be found in the monogenic conception of disease which covers not only infectious agents (bacteria, viruses. fungi, parasites, prions) but also genetics, poisons. While clinical medicine is concerned with the ill health of the individual patient when s/he has succumbed to disease, epidemiology is concerned with the pattern of diseases in populations in order to study their causes as well as how to manage, control, ameliorate the problems identified under study.\n\nClinical medicine, as presented above, is part of a reductionist approach to disease, based ultimately on Cartesian dualism which says that the proper study of medicine is an investigation of the body when the latter is viewed as machine. A machine can exhaustively be broken down into its component parts and their respective functions; in the same way, the dominant approach to clinical research and treatment assumes the human body can be broken down/analysed in terms of its component parts and their respective functions, such as its internal and external organs, the tissues and bones of which they are composed, the cells which make up the tissues, the molecules which constitute the cell, down to the atoms (the DNA sequences) which make up the cell in the body.\n\nPlacebos and placebo effects have generated years of conceptual confusion about what kinds of thing they are. Example definitions of a placebo may refer to their inertness or pharmacological inactivity in relation to the condition they are given for. Similarly, example definitions of placebo effects may refer to the subjectivity or the non-specificity of those effects. These type of definition suggest the view that when given a placebo treatment, one may merely feel better while not being ‘really’ better.\n\nThe distinctions at work in these types of definition: between active and inactive/inert, specific and non-specific, and subjective and objective, have been problematized. For instance, if placebos are inactive or inert, then how do they cause placebo effects? More generally, there is scientific evidence from research investigating placebo phenomena which demonstrates that, for certain conditions (such as pain), placebo effects can be both specific and objective in the conventional sense.\n\nOther attempts to define placebos and placebo effects therefore shift focus away from these distinctions and onto therapeutic effects that are caused or modulated by the context in which a treatment is delivered and the meaning that different aspects of treatments have for patients. \nThe problems arising over the definition of placebos and their effects may be said to be the heritage of Cartesian dualism, under which mind and matter are understood as two different substances. Furthermore, Cartesian dualism endorses a form of materialism which permits matter to have an effect on matter, or even matter to work on mind (epiphenomenalism, which is the raison d’être of psycho-pharmacology), but does not permit mind to have any effect on matter. This then means that medical science has difficulty in entertaining even the possibility that placebo effects are real, exist and may be objectively determinable and finding such reports difficult if not impossible to comprehend and/or accept. Yet such reports which appear to be genuine pose a threat to Cartesian dualism which provides the ontological underpinning for biomedicine especially in its clinical domain.\n\nAlthough most areas of study within the Philosophy of Medicine are concerned with matters of epistemology, there is a growing interest in the metaphysics of medicine, particularly the idea of causality. Philosophers of medicine might not only be interested in how medical knowledge is generated, but also in the nature of such phenomena. Causation is of interest because the purpose of much medical research is to establish causal relationships, e.g. what causes disease, or what causes people to get better. Thus the idea of cause is central to this philosophy. The scientific processes used to generate causal knowledge give clues to the metaphysics of causation. For example, the defining feature of randomised controlled trials (RCTs) is that they are thought to establish causal relationships, whereas observational studies do not. In this instance, causation can be considered as something which is counterfactually dependent, i.e. the way RCTs differ from observational studies is that they have a comparison group in which the intervention of interest is not given. \nAt least two different causal paradigms in biomedicine have been identified – the Humean, linear, mono-factorial paradigm championed mainly in clinical medicine; and the non-linear, reciprocal, multi-factorial paradigm invoked in epidemiology.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53438629", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53438629", "title": "Philosophy of psychedelics", "text": "Philosophy of psychedelics\n\nPhilosophy of psychedelics is the philosophical investigation of the psychedelic experience. While psychedelic, entheogenic or hallucinogenic substances have been used by many traditional cultures throughout history mostly for religious purposes, recorded philosophical speculation and analysis of these substances, their phenomenological effects and the relevance of these altered states of consciousness to philosophical questions is a relatively late phenomenon in the history of philosophy. Traditional cultures who use psychedelic substances such as the Amazonian and Indigenous Mexican peoples hold that ingesting medicinal plants such as Ayahuasca and Peyote allows one to commune with the beings of the spirit world.\n\nThe Indian Yogi and scholar Patanjali in his Yoga sutras mentions that mystic powers (\"siddhaya\") can arise from certain \"herbs\" or \"healing plants\" (\"osadhi\"):\n\nLater commentators on the Yoga sutras like Vyasa mention elixirs of the asuras, and also state these herbal concoctions can be found in this world. Adi Shankara meanwhile refers to the Vedic drink Soma.\n\nVajrayana Buddhist Tantras mention the nectar \"amrita\" (literally \"immortal\", \"deathless\") which was drunk during rituals and which is associated in the tradition with 'spiritual intoxication'. A biography of the scholar Gampopa mentions how one of his teachers stated that \"You can obtain Buddhahood: by taking a medicine pill which will make you immortal like the sun and moon.\" This is a reference to the Vajrayana practice of rasayana (Skt: \"alchemy\") to create certain potions or pills. According to M.L. Walter's study of Indo-Tibetan rasayana, ingestion of these substances were said to \"strengthen the yogin and procure the siddhi for him, as well as bringing him to the final goal.\" According to Mike Crowley there are two traditions of Indo Tibetan-rasayana preserved in Tibet, one founded by Padmasambhava and the other by his contemporary, Vimalamitra.\n\nAccording to Chogyam Trungpa (1939 – 1987), a modern teacher is the Kagyu tradition:\n\namrita... is used in conferring the second abhisheka, the secret abhisheka. This transmission dissolves the student's mind into the mind of the teacher of the lineage. In general, amrita is the principle of intoxicating extreme beliefs, belief in ego, and dissolving the boundary between confusion and sanity so that coemergence can be realized.\n\nEuropean literature such as Confessions of an English Opium-Eater by Thomas De Quincey (one of the first English commentators on Kant) and Samuel Taylor Coleridge's Kubla Khan described the use and phenomenal character of mind-altering substances such as Opium. De Quincey held that Opium allowed one to access the earliest of memories and that therefore no memories were ever truly forgotten:\n\nThe minutest incidents of childhood, or forgotten scenes of later years, were often revived: I could not be said to recollect them; for if I had been told of them when waking, I should not have been able to acknowledge them as parts of my past experience. But placed as they were before me, in dreams like intuitions, and clothed in all their evanescent circumstances and accompanying feelings, I recognized them instantaneously […] I feel assured that there is no such thing as forgetting possible to the mind.\n\nJacques-Joseph Moreau, who reported his experiments with mental patients and drugs, believed that “the hashish experience was a way to gain insight into mental disease.”\n\nThe French Poet Baudelaire wrote about the effects of Hashish and Opium in Les Paradis artificiels (1860) and theorized about how they could be used to allow the individual to reach \"ideal\" states of mind. Charles Baudelaire was member of the 'Club des Hashischins', a Parisian literary group dedicated to the exploration of altered states of consciousness which included Jacques-Joseph Moreau and literary figures such as Victor Hugo, Alexandre Dumas, Gerard de Nerval, Honore de Balzac, and Theophile Gautier. Baudelaire's opinion of the drug was generally negative, believing that it weakened and dampened artistic capacities, the personal Will and even the very identity of the hashish eater. He compared it to suicide and a false happiness, and saw wine as the true intoxicant of the artists.\n\nIn the United States, The Hasheesh Eater (1857) an autobiographical book by Fitz Hugh Ludlow became popular. Ludlow wrote that a Marijuana user sought \"the soul’s capacity for a broader being, deeper insight, grander views of Beauty, Truth and Good than she now gains through the chinks of her cell.\" The American William James was one of the first academic philosophers to write about the effects of hallucinogenic substances in his \"The Subjective Effects of Nitrous Oxide\" (1882) in which he writes that the gas can produce a \"tremendously exiting sense of an intense metaphysical illumination. Truth lies open to the view in depth beneath depth of almost blinding evidence. The mind sees all logical relations of being with an apparent subtlety and instantaniety to which its normal consciousness offers no parallel\". He goes on to say that the experience gave him the sense that the philosophy of Hegel was true. In his \"The Varieties of Religious Experience\" he likewise writes:\nNitrous oxide and ether, especially nitrous oxide … stimulate the mystical consciousness in an extraordinary degree. … [In] the nitrous oxide trance we have a genuine metaphysical revelation. … [Our] normal waking consciousness, rational consciousness as we call it, is but one special type of consciousness, whilst all about it, parted from it by the filmiest of screens, there lie potential forms of consciousness entirely different.\n\nAfter using mescaline in 1953, Aldous Huxley wrote the Doors of Perception where he advanced the theory that psychedelic compounds could produce mystical experiences and knowledge, \"what the visionary, the medium, even the mystic were talking about\" and what eastern philosophy described with terms like Satcitananda, the Godhead, Suchness, Void, Not-self and Dharmakaya. Huxley also quotes the philosopher C. D. Broad, which held that the brain and nervous might act as a reducing valve of all the stimuli in the universe:\n\nAccording to such a theory, each one of us is potentially Mind at Large. But in so far as we are animals, our business is at all costs to survive. To make biological survival possible, Mind at Large has to be funneled through the reducing valve of the brain and nervous system. What comes out at the other end is a measly trickle of the kind of consciousness which will help us to stay alive on the surface of this Particular planet.\n\nHuxley wrote that it was possible that certain human beings could, through drugs, meditation, etc. circumvent the 'reducing valve' and experience something far beyond everyday consciousness. This experience Huxley saw as the source of all mysticism, a theory termed the Perennial philosophy. He also discusses art and the legality of various drugs in the West as well as arguing for the importance for self-transcendence. Huxley's philosophical novel Island also described a Utopian society that used a psychedelic substance for spiritual purposes.\n\nIn the early 1960s a group that eventually came to be called \"Harvard Psychedelic Club\" which included Timothy Leary, Huston Smith and Ram Dass administered psychedelics to Harvard students. The group experimented with psychedelics in experiments such as the Harvard Psilocybin Project. Huston Smith's last work, Cleansing the Doors of Perception, describes the Harvard Project in which he participated.\n\nRam Dass' Be here now and Tim Leary's The Psychedelic Experience: A Manual Based on The Tibetan Book of the Dead compared the psychedelic experiences to eastern philosophy and mystical states of consciousness. These books further popularized the idea that eastern - particularly Indian philosophical and spiritual insights could be obtained from using psychedelics. One of these experiences described in \"The Psychedelic Experience\" is that of ego death or depersonalization.\n\nThe idea that the psychedelic experience could grant access to eastern spiritual insights was also promoted by the popular philosopher Alan Watts in his writings such as \"The Joyous Cosmology\", who also argued that one should not remain dependent on them for spiritual growth: \"If you get the message, hang up the phone. For psychedelic drugs are simply instruments, like microscopes, telescopes, and telephones. The biologist does not sit with eye permanently glued to the microscope, he goes away and works on what he has seen.\"\n\nVarious psychologists during the 1960s also studied psychedelic substances and worked with Psychedelic therapy and later developed various theories about their effects and significance. Stanislav Grof is known for his extensive work in LSD psychotherapy and for developing a theory which stated that the psychedelic experience allowed one to relive birth trauma and to explore the depths of the unconscious mind. Grof observed four levels of the LSD experience, which for him correspond to areas of the human unconscious: (1) Abstract and aesthetic experiences (2) Psychodynamic experiences (3) Perinatal experiences, and (4) Transpersonal experiences. Grof defined the last level as \"experiences involving an expansion or extension of consciousness beyond the usual ego boundaries and beyond the limitations of time and/or space.\" The field of Transpersonal psychology focuses on this type of experience. Grof included topics such as consciousness, mysticism and metaphysics in his later writings.\n\nThe scientist and philosopher John C. Lilly discussed his experiments with psychedelics and altered states of consciousness in and Programming and Metaprogramming in the Human Biocomputer. Other psychologists who studied and wrote on psychedelic use include Walter Pahnke, Ralph Metzner and Claudio Naranjo.\n\nAccording to writer James Oroc, the 1990s brought about a second phase in modern psychedelic culture. The 'philosophical foundation' of this new wave of psychedelic thought was based on the works of Alexander Shulgin, Alex Grey and Terence McKenna.\n\nNeuroscientist Rick Strassman has written about his research into the psychedelic N,N-Dimethyltryptamine in his book \"DMT: The Spirit Molecule\" (2001). In his book Strassman investigates the possible connection between natural DMT in mystical and Near Death Experiences and psychedelic states caused by outwardly administered DMT. He also describes the psychedelic experiences of the volunteers in his experiments and their encounter with certain strange \"beings\" after being administered DMT.\n\nIn his study of recent scientific research on psychedelics and its neurophilosophy (\"Neuropsychedelia\", 2012), Nicolas Langlitz has argued that Huxley's view expressed in the Doors of perception of the brain as a \"reducing valve\" which when released produced a perennial mystical experience has been a very influential theory among contemporary psychopharmacologists who study psychedelics, who have given it a materialist 'neurobiological reinterpretation' which he calls “mystic materialism”. Langlitz defines this as: \"a this-worldly mysticism that reveres not transcendence but biological life\" and holds to a certain \"metaphysical unity of the world\".\n\nThomas Metzinger has discussed the effects of substances such as LSD, dimethyltryptamine, and mescaline in his \"Being No One\" (2003). Metzinger describes the hallucinatory component of the psychedelic experience as \"epistemically vacuous\" i.e. it provides no epistemic knowledge. In spite of this, Metzinger still believes that philosophers and consciousness researchers would have much to gain if they were \"well traveled in phenomenal state space, if they were cultivated in terms of the richness of their own inner experience\" through the psychedelic experience. According to Metzinger, psychedelic experiences could change researchers' theoretical intuitions as well as serving as a form of 'mental culture', an analogue to Physical culture.\n\nThe American philosopher Sam Harris has discussed his use of psychedelics in his book which also attempts to argue for a naturalized spirituality.\n\nAnother contemporary philosopher write about psychedelics is Peter Sjöstedt-H. His recent \"Noumenautics\" (2015) discusses psychedelic phenomenology and its metaphysical implications. \n\nIn his encyclopedic overview of psychedelic culture and thought \"Psychedelia\" (2012), Patrick Lundborg developed a psychedelic philosophy he called \"Unified Psychedelic Theory\" (UPT) which draws from Platonism, the phenomenology of Husserl and Merleau-Ponty, Paul D. MacLean's Triune brain theory, the work of Eugen Fink and other thinkers.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47876595", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47876595", "title": "Radim Palouš", "text": "Radim Palouš\n\nRadim Palouš (6 November 1924 – 10 September 2015) was a Czech dissident, philosopher, educator, and former spokesman for Charter 77, and from 1990 to 1994, was the rector of Charles University in Prague.\n\nPalouš was born into a family of journalists and active athletes. After graduating in Prague, he was placed in forced labor during World War II. From 1945 onwards, he studied philosophy at Charles University (taught by Jan Patočka), and in 1948 he defended his doctoral thesis on Masaryks philosophy of youth. He worked as a teacher and studied chemistry at the pedagogical branch in Charles University, where, since 1957, he worked as an assistant. He was qualified in the field of education (Labour School of the modern age), and dealt with the work of Comenius and on modern teaching techniques. His contributions enriched the philosophy of education in Czechoslovakia.\n\nIn 1976, he signed Charter 77, and from 1982 to 1983 he was its spokesman. Since 1989 until his death, he was a member of the Masaryk Democratic Movement. In November 1989, as one of the representatives of the Civic Forum, he participated in meetings and negotiations during the Velvet Revolution to release Czechoslovakia from its Communist rule. In January 1990, he became the rector of Charles University. He participated in the restoration of the reform of higher education and to restore international relations with the United Kingdom. Throughout his times, he traveled and lectured in Europe, the Americas, Africa and Asia and received nine honorary doctorates (eight at foreign universities and one in the Czech Republic). For his work in publishing writings on Patočka, he was awarded the Prize of Czechoslovak Academy of Sciences, and most notably, for his lifelong work, the third class of the Order of Tomáš Garrigue Masaryk in 1997.\n\nOn 10 September 2015, Radim Palouš died.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22872899", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22872899", "title": "Reactionary modernism", "text": "Reactionary modernism\n\n\"Reactionary modernism\" is a term first coined by Jeffrey Herf in his 1984 book, \"Reactionary Modernism: Technology, Culture and Politics in Weimar and the Third Reich\", to describe the mixture of \"great enthusiasm for modern technology with a rejection of the Enlightenment and the values and institutions of liberal democracy\" which was characteristic of the German Conservative Revolutionary movement and Nazism. In turn, this ideology of reactionary modernism was closely linked to the original, positive view of the \"Sonderweg\", which saw Germany as the great Central European power neither of the West nor of the East.\n\nHerf's application of the term to describe fascism has been widely echoed by other scholars. Herf had used the term to denote a trend in intellectual thought during the era, what German novelist Thomas Mann had described as \"a highly technological romanticism\" during the interwar years. Herf used the term in reference to a wide range of German cultural figures, including Ernst Jünger, Oswald Spengler, Carl Schmitt, and Hans Freyer.\n\nHistorian Nicolas Guilhot has broadened the scope of reactionary modernism, applying the term to trends in Weimar Republic industry, medicine (eugenics), mass politics, and social engineering. Reactionary modernism can be seen in the fascist concept of the New Man, as well as in art movements of Weimar culture that emphasized rationalism and embraced Futurism and the New Objectivity. Many Weimar period artists rejected the Futurists' fetishization of machinery and violence, for example the proponents of German Expressionism. Despite this, the return to order became a dominant theme in German culture and in that of other European countries.\n\nReactionary modernism has been explored as a theme in the interwar literature and broader political culture of Great Britain. It has been examined in the context of other European countries during the interwar period, including Romania, Greece, Sweden, and Spain. It has even been examined in the context of fascism in Japan. Other historians acknowledge the term's recognition of an influential trend in European philosophical, cultural and political thought during the period when fascism was on the rise. Since the neologism was created by Herf, it has gained mainstream currency with historians in discussing the paradoxical European enthusiasm for paternalistic authoritarianism and volkish nationalism on the one hand, and new technological and political concepts on the other hand, all under totalitarian regimes.\n\nHerf now applies the term to claim similarity to the governments of Iran under the Ayatollahs, the government of Iraq under Saddam Hussein, and extremist Islamist groups such as Al Qaeda. Other scholars, including Paul Berman, have also applied Herf's term to radical Islamism.\n\nCultural critic Richard Barbrook argues that members of the digerati, who adhere to the Californian Ideology, embrace a form of reactionary modernism which combines economic growth with social stratification.\n\nThomas Rohkrämer criticized the concept of reactionary modernism, arguing \"It is simply not strange or 'paradoxical to reject the Enlightenment and embrace technology at the same time', but a common practice in nineteenth- and twentieth-century Germany as well as in many other countries. Instrumental reason and technology are available for an endless number of different purposes, many of which are not humane or enlightened\". Support for this view also came from Roger Griffin, who argued \"[F]ascism as an \"ideology\" and \"movement\" can be seen as proposing a radical alternative to liberal and socialist visions of what form modernity ideally should take. It represents an uncompromising rejection both of thorough-going liberalism and extreme 'modernism', whose logical culmination it sees as relativism, anomie, subjectivism, and the loss of definitive meaning and 'eternal' values. It is an attempt to re-anchor modern human beings within that highly modern phenomenon, the totalitarian state (a term used positively by Fascism) through consciously manipulated historical, national and racist myth (all deeply modern ideological constructs)\".\n\n"}
{"id": "49750551", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49750551", "title": "Richard Bonnie", "text": "Richard Bonnie\n\nRichard J. Bonnie is the Harrison Foundation Professor of Law and Medicine, Professor of Public Policy, Professor of Psychiatry and Neurobehavioral Science, and Director of the Institute of Law, Psychiatry and Public Policy at the University of Virginia and the University of Virginia School of Law. He teaches and writes about criminal law, bioethics, and public policies relating to mental health, substance abuse, aging and public health.\n\nBonnie received his B.A. from Johns Hopkins University in 1966. He received his L.L.B. from University of Virginia in 1969.\n\nBonnie has been actively involved in public service throughout his career. Among many other positions, he has been associate director of the National Commission on Marihuana and Drug Abuse (1971–73); secretary of the first National Advisory Council on Drug Abuse (1975–80); chair of Virginia's State Human Rights Committee responsible for protecting rights of persons with mental disabilities (1979–85), chief advisor for the ABA Criminal Justice Mental Health Standards Project (1981–88) and Chair of the Commission on Mental Health Law Reform established by the Chief Justice of Virginia (2006–11).\n\nBonnie has served as an advisor to the American Psychiatric Association Council on Psychiatry and Law since 1979, received the American Psychiatric Association's Isaac Ray Award in 1998 for contributions to the field of forensic psychiatry, and was awarded a special presidential commendation in 2003 for his contributions to American psychiatry. He has also served on three MacArthur Foundation Research Networks — on Mental Health and the Law (1988–96), Mandated Community Treatment (2000-2010) and Law and Neuroscience (since 2008).\n\nIn 1991, Bonnie was elected to the National Academy of Medicine. He has chaired numerous National Academy studies on subjects ranging from elder mistreatment to underage drinking, including the landmark report, Ending the Tobacco Problem: A Blueprint for the Nation (2007). Most recently, he chaired major studies on juvenile justice reform (2013) and the health and well-being of young adults (2014).\n\nBonnie has authored many papers and books on the subjects of criminal law, bioethics and public policies relating to mental health, substance abuse, aging and public health.\n\nIn 2007, Bonnie received the University of Virginia's highest honor, the Thomas Jefferson Award. He received the Yarmolinsky Medal in 2002 for his contributions to the National Academies. Bonnie was elected to the America Law Institute in 2014.\n"}
{"id": "42270294", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42270294", "title": "Robert Adams (spiritual teacher)", "text": "Robert Adams (spiritual teacher)\n\nRobert Adams (January 21, 1928 – March 2, 1997) was an American Advaita teacher. In his late teens, he was a devotee of Sri Ramana Maharshi in Tiruvannamalai, India. In later life Adams held satsang with a small group of devotees in California, US. He mainly advocated the path of jñāna yoga with an emphasis on the practice of self-enquiry.\n\nAdams' teachings were not well known in his lifetime, but have since been widely circulated amongst those investigating the philosophy of Advaita and the Western devotees of Bhagavan Sri Ramana Maharshi. A book of his teachings, \"Silence of the Heart: Dialogues with Robert Adams,\" was published in 1999.\n\nRobert Adams was born on January 21, 1928 in Manhattan and grew up in New York City, USA. Adams claimed that from as far back as he could remember, he had had visions of a white haired, bearded man seated at the foot of his bed, who was about two feet tall, and who used to talk to him in a language which he did not understand. He told his parents but they thought he was playing games. He would later find out that this man was a vision of his future guru Sri Ramana Maharshi. At the age of seven, Adams's father died and the visitations suddenly stopped.\n\nAdams said that he then developed a siddhi whereby whenever he wanted something, from a candy bar to a violin, all he needed to do was say the name of the object three times and the desired object would appear from somewhere, or be given to him by someone. If there was a test at school Adams would simply say 'God, God, God' and the answers would immediately come to him; no prior study was necessary.\n\nAdams claimed to have had a profound spiritual awakening at the age of fourteen. It was the end of term finals maths test and Adams had not studied for it at all. As was his custom he said 'God' three times, but with a phenomenal and unintended outcome:\nNot long after this experience, Adams went to the school library to do a book report. While passing through the philosophy section he came across a book on yoga masters. Having no idea what yoga was, he opened the book and for the first time saw a photo of the man he had experienced visions of as a young child, Bhagavan Sri Ramana Maharshi.\nAt the age of 16, Adams' first spiritual mentor was Joel S. Goldsmith, a Christian mystic from New York, whom he used to visit in Manhattan, in order to listen to his sermons. Goldsmith helped Adams to better understand his enlightenment and advised him to go and see Paramahansa Yogananda. Adams did so and visited Yogananda at the Self-Realization Fellowship in Encinitas, California, where he intended to be initiated as a monk.\nHowever, after speaking to him, Yogananda felt that Adams had his own path and should go to India. He told him that his satguru was Sri Ramana Maharshi and that he should go to him as soon as possible because Ramana Maharshi's body was old and in ill-health. Sri Ramana Maharshi lived at Sri Ramanasramam at the foot of Arunachala in Tamil Nadu, South India.\n\nWith $14,000 of inheritance money from a recently deceased aunt, Adams set off for India and his guru Sri Ramana Maharshi in 1946:\n\nAdams stayed at Sri Ramanasramam for the final three years of Sri Ramana Maharshi's life. Over the course of this time he had many conversations with Sri Ramana Maharshi, and through abiding in his presence was able to confirm and further understand his own experience of awakening to the non-dual \"Self\".\nAfter Sri Ramana Maharshi left the body in 1950 Adams spent a further seventeen years travelling around India and stayed with well known gurus such as Nisargadatta Maharaj, Anandamayi Ma, Neem Karoli Baba and Swami Ramdas to name but a few. He also spent time with less well-known teachers such as Swami Brahmadanda \"the Staff of God\" in the holy city of Varanasi.\n\nIn the 1960s Adams returned to the United States and lived in Hawaii and Los Angeles before finally moving to Sedona, Arizona in the mid 1990s. He was married to Nicole Adams and fathered two daughters. In the 1980s Adams developed Parkinson's Disease, which forced him to settle in one location and receive the appropriate care. A small group of devotees soon grew up around him and in the early 1990s he gave weekly satsangs in the San Fernando Valley, along with other surrounding areas of Los Angeles. These satsangs were both recorded and transcribed. After several years of deteriorating health, Adams died on March 2, 1997 in Sedona, Arizona, where he was surrounded by family members and devotees. He died at the age of 69 from cancer of the liver.\n\nAdams did not consider himself to be a teacher, a philosopher or a preacher. What he imparted he said was simply the confession of a jnani. He said he confessed his and everyone else's own reality, and encouraged students not to listen to him with their heads but with their hearts. Adams' way of communicating to his devotees was often funny, and with interludes of silence or music between questions and answers. He stated that there was no such thing as a new teaching. This knowledge could be found in the Upanishads, the Vedas and other Hindu scriptures.\n\nAdams did not write any books himself nor publish his teachings as he did not wish to gain a large following. He instead preferred to teach a small number of dedicated seekers. However, in 1992, a book of his dialogues was transcribed, compiled and distributed by and for the sole use of his devotees. In 1999, a later edition of this book, \"Silence of the Heart: Dialogues with Robert Adams\", was posthumously published by Acropolis Books Inc. As conveyed by the title of these dialogues, Adams considered silence to be the highest of spiritual teachings:\n\nAlthough Adams was never initiated into a religious order or spiritual practice, nor became a renunciate, his teachings were described by Dennis Waite as being firmly based in the Vedic philosophy and Hindu tradition of Advaita Vedanta. Advaita (\"non-dual\" in sanskrit) refers to the ultimate and supreme reality, Brahman, which according to Ramana Maharshi, as interpreted by some of his devotees, is the substratum of the manifest universe, and if describable at all, could be defined as pure consciousness. Another term for Brahman is Ātman. The word Ātman is used when referring to Brahman as the inmost spirit of man. Ātman and Brahman are not different realities, but identical in nature. Adams used a metaphor to explain this:\n\nThose in search of liberation from the manifest world will gain it only when the mind becomes quiescent. The world is in fact nothing other than the creation of the mind, and only by the removal of all thoughts, including the 'I' thought, will the true reality of Brahman shine forth. Adams taught self-enquiry, as previously taught by Sri Ramana Maharshi, in order to achieve this.\n\nIn his weekly satsangs Adams advocated the practice of self-enquiry (\"ātma-vichāra\") as the principal means of transcending the ego and realising oneself as sat-chit-ananda (\"being-consciousness-bliss\"). After acknowledging to oneself that one exists, and that whether awake, dreaming or in deep sleep one always exists, one then responds to every thought that arises with the question \"Who am I?\":\n\nAdams rarely gave a sadhana to his devotees, however, he did often have visions, and in one such vision he gave a teaching as the Buddha. He visualised himself sitting under a tree in a beautiful open field with a lake and a forest nearby. He was wearing the orange garb of a Buddhist renunciate. All of a sudden hundreds of bodhisattvas and mahasattvas came out of the forest and sat down in a semi-circle around Adams as the Buddha. Together they proceeded to meditate for several hours. Afterwards, one of the bodhisattvas stood up and asked the Buddha what he taught. The Buddha answered, \"I teach Self-realization of Noble Wisdom.\" Again they sat in silence for three hours before another bodhisattva stood up and asked how one could tell whether they were close to self-realization. In reply, Adams as the Buddha, gave the bodhisattvas and mahasattvas four principles, which he named \"The Four Principles of Self-Realization of Noble Wisdom\": \n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2912086", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2912086", "title": "Simion Bărnuțiu", "text": "Simion Bărnuțiu\n\nSimion Bărnuțiu (; 21 July 1808 – 28 May 1864) was a Transylvanian, later Romanian historian, academic, philosopher, jurist, and liberal politician. A leader of the 1848 revolutionary movement of Transylvanian Romanians, he represented its Eastern Rite Catholic wing. Bărnuțiu lived for a large part of his life in Moldavia, and was for long a professor of philosophy at Academia Mihăileană and at the University of Iași.\n\nBorn in Bocșa (), Szilágy County, Transylvania. He became a teacher of history at the secondary school in Blaj, which was at the time, like the rest of Transylvania, part of the Austrian Empire. Bărnuțiu was influenced early-on by the philosophy of Immanuel Kant (\"Kantianism\"), in which he saw the means to reform society in opposition to traditional theological views, while supporting a presence of laity in the administrative structures of his own church. An active contributor to \"Foaie pentru minte, inimă și literatură\", the literary supplement of George Barițiu's journal \"Gazeta de Transilvania\", he became noted after 1842 for virulently opposing the decision of the Magyar-dominated Transylvanian Diet to give Hungarian a status of a semi-official language in local administration of Transylvania(\"see History of Transylvania\").\n\nOn March 24, 1848, Bărnuțiu issued one in a series of appeals by various authors, calling for self-determination of Romanians inside Transylvania, viewing it as a necessary step in matching Magyar success in obtaining rights from Emperor Ferdinand I, and professing that Romanians should reject the projected union of the region with the Kingdom of Hungary until ensured proportional representation and the official condemnation of serfdom.\n\nThe Blaj Assembly convened in April on the basis of such proclamations gathered together intellectuals, clergy, and commoners.\n\nBărnuțiu gave several speeches in front of the Assembly, calling for patience and moderation while continuing to campaign against all unilateral change in Transylvania's government and disagreeing with more skeptical political leaders, such as Bariț and Andrei Șaguna, and finally being persuaded to include an oath of allegiance to the Emperor in his political strategy. Just before the Second Assembly in May, he agreed to moderate his tone further, taking in view the points made by Bariț in regard to the fragile situation facing Romanians in the region, and partly reformulated his program on self-determination. On May 17, he was elected vicepresident of the \"Permanent Committee\" formed by Blaj delegates as a supervising body (one presided by Șaguna), later the basis of the \"National Romanian Committee\".\n\nThe rapid succession of events after the proclamation of Transylvania's union with the Hungarian Kingdom (July 11) and of Hungary's independence (September 27), with an Austrian military debacle in Transylvania, saw a rapprochement between the loyalist Austrian Anton Freiherr von Puchner, nominal governor of the region, and Bărnuțiu's Committee. From the Committee's perspective, this was an Austrian recognition of Transylvania's self-government as a Romanian region, which was to be advanced to the new emperor Franz Josef.\n\nAfter Imperial Russian intervention in Transylvania, he decided to go into exile, and settled in Iași, Moldavia's capital. He wrote several treaties on law and philosophy (including a passionate defense of Roman law), and, before and after the union of the Danubian Principalities under \"Domnitor\" Alexandru Ioan Cuza advocated radical reforms which were a direct inspiration to the Moldavian liberal dissidents grouped as \"Fracțiunea liberă și independentă\". In the 1850s, Bărnuțiu wrote against the popular project of electing a foreign prince as ruler of the Principalities, an opposition which \"Fracțiunea\" carried into the Constituent Assembly following the toppling of Cuza two years after Bărnuțiu's death. \"Junimea\", a conservative literary society created during that period, criticized him along with other Transylvanian intellectuals (such as Timotei Cipariu, Gheorghe Șincai, and August Treboniu Laurian) for having supported a Romanian grammar and alphabet based on Latin etymologies instead of one reflecting the spoken language (at the time, \"Latinist\" influences following Transylvanian guidelines had come to be favoured by the Romanian Academy).\n\nAfter having fallen gravely ill, Simion Bărnuțiu asked to be allowed to return to his native village. He died on the way there, in Hida.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14552304", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14552304", "title": "Split labor market theory", "text": "Split labor market theory\n\nSplit labor market theory was proposed by sociologist Edna Bonacich in the early 1970s as an attempt to explain racial/ethnic tensions and labor market segmentation by race/ethnicity in terms of social structure and political power rather than individual-level prejudice. Bonacich argues that ethnic antagonism emerges from a split labor market, where two or more racially/ethnically distinct groups of workers vie for the same jobs, and where the total cost to the employer (including wages) of hiring workers from one group is significantly lower than the cost of hiring from the other group. Employers (or capitalists) prefer to hire cheaper workers and will do so absent active opposition from higher-priced workers, creating an antagonism between higher- and lower-priced groups. Differences in the price of labor are sociological and political in nature, not a matter of personal preference, so that, e.g., native, unionized workers, who enjoy full political rights will demand higher wages and be more likely to resist employer prerogatives than undocumented immigrant, non-union workers from poorer countries. According to Bonacich, likely outcomes of a split labor market include not only antagonism but, depending on the political power of higher-priced workers, a caste-like system where lower-priced workers are restricted to specific occupations, or total exclusion of the lower-priced group from the labor market.\n\nConflict develops between these three classes because each has a different interest.\n\n\"Business or employers (white capitalists)\" aim to have a cheap and docile labor force in order to compete effectively with other businesses and maximize economic return. Business will dispense with and undercut the white working-class if they could, and have done so when they have the opportunity.\n\n\"Higher paid labor\", otherwise called the \"primary labor market\", is threatened by introduction of cheaper labor into their market fearing that it will force them to leave the workplace or reduce their pay level. If the Higher Paid Labor is strong enough or possess the power resources, they can prevent being replaced or undercut by cheaper labor through exclusion movements or creating caste systems (exclusiveness or aristocracy of labor).\n\n\"Cheaper labor\", also called the \"secondary labor market\", is used by the employer to undermine the position of more expensive labor through strikebreaking and undercutting. Cheaper laborers are usually unskilled, but can be trained.\n\nThe split labor market theory attributes events to social structure rather than to individual preferences. It is a form of conflict theory in that it sees discrimination as a result of the conflict between competing interest groups. \"The business owner or capitalist \"recognizes\" that racial discrimination is dysfunctional for the business enterprise and prefers \"not\" to discriminate. The objective of the capitalist is to get the best worker for the cheapest wage, and it is therefore in the capitalist's interest \"not\" to discriminate, because discrimination limits the pool of workers available for the position. Accordingly, those doing the hiring discriminate \"not\" because they have a 'taste for discrimination', but rather because they might have been \"forced\" to do so by the laborers that do benefit\" (Farley). Higher paid laborers may be able to impose a system of discrimination in a number of ways. Discrimination occurs in a split labor market because workers benefit when they eliminate minority competition.\n\nEthnic antagonism is produced when competition arises from a price differential. A source of antagonism between ethnic groups is assumed to be a split labor market or one in which there is a large differential in price of labor for the same occupation/work. The price of labor is not a response to the race or ethnicity of those entering the labor market. A price differential results from differences in resources and motives which are often correlates of ethnicity.\n\nAccording to Bonacich, \"The central hypothesis [deriving from split labor market theory] is that ethnic antagonism first germinates in a labor market split along racial lines\". Split labor market theory traces the roots of racial/ethnic stratification to social and political differences that predate inter-group contact in the labor market, but the specific outcomes (caste system, exclusion, or something else) result mainly from the actions of the higher paid segment of the working class and their power relative to that of capital.\n\nIn one of the best-known applications of split labor market theory, William Julius Wilson argued in \"The Declining Significance of Race\" that a split labor market provided much of the racial antagonism between blacks and whites during the earlier years of what he called the period of industrial race relations. Wilson argued that this did not last, however, as \"the passage of protective union legislation during the New Deal era, and the equal employment legislation in the early sixties have virtually eliminated the tendency of employers to create a split labor market in which black labor is deemed cheaper than white labor regardless of the work performed\".\n\n"}
{"id": "31447", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31447", "title": "The Book of the Courtier", "text": "The Book of the Courtier\n\nThe Book of the Courtier ( ) is a courtesy book or book of manners which dealt with issues of etiquette, behaviour and morals, particularly at princely, or royal courts. Courtesy literature can be traced back to 13th century German and Italian writers. The \"Book of the Courtier\" was written by Baldassare Castiglione over the course of many years, beginning in 1508, and was ultimately published in 1528 by the Aldine Press in Venice just before his death. An English edition was published in 1561. \n\n\"The Book of the Courtier\" addresses the constitution of a perfect courtier, and in its last installment, a perfect lady. It takes the form of a Renaissance dialogue, a literary form that incorporated elements of drama, conversation, philosophy, and essay. Considered the definitive account of Renaissance court life, it is cited frequently, along with Stefano Guazzo's \"The civil conversation\" of 1574 and Giovanni Della Casa's \"Galateo \" of 1558, as an important resource on court life during the Italian Renaissance.\n\nThe book is organized as a series of fictional conversations that occur between the courtiers of the Duke of Urbino in 1507 (when Castiglione was in fact part of the Duke's Court). In the book, the courtier is described as having a cool mind, a good voice (with beautiful, elegant and brave words) along with proper bearing and gestures. At the same time though, the courtier is expected to have a warrior spirit, to be athletic, and have good knowledge of the humanities, Classics and fine arts. \nOver the course of four evenings, members of the court try to describe the perfect gentleman of the court. In the process they debate the nature of nobility, humor, women, and love.\n\n\"The Book of the Courtier\" was one of the most widely distributed books of the 16th century, with editions printed in six languages and in twenty European centers. The 1561 English translation by Thomas Hoby had a great influence on the English upper class's conception of English gentlemen. The Courtier enjoyed influence for some generations, not least in Elizabethan England following its first translation by Sir Thomas Hoby in 1561, a time when Italian culture was very much in fashion.\n\nOf the many qualities Castiglione’s characters attribute to their perfect courtier, oratory and the manner in which the courtier presents himself while speaking is amongst the most highly discussed. Wayne Rebhorn, a Castiglione scholar, states that the courtier’s speech and behavior in general is “designed to make people marvel at him, to transform himself into a beautiful spectacle for others to contemplate.\" As explained by Count Ludovico, the success of the courtier depends greatly on his reception by the audience from the first impression. This partly explains why the group considers the courtier's dress so vital to his success.\n\nCastiglione's characters opine about how their courtier can impress his audience and win its approval. Similar to the Classical Roman rhetoricians Cicero and Quintilian, Castiglione stresses the importance of delivery while speaking. In Book I, the Count states that when the courtier speaks he must have a “sonorous, clear, sweet and well sounding” voice that is neither too effeminate nor too rough and be “tempered by a calm face and with a play of the eyes that shall give an effect of grace.” (Castiglione 1.33) This grace, or \"grazia\", becomes an important element in the courtier’s appearance to the audience. Edoardo Saccone states in his analysis of Castiglione, “\"grazia\" consists of, or rather is obtained through, \"sprezzatura\".”\n\nAccording to the Count, \"sprezzatura\" is amongst one of the most important, if not the most important, rhetorical device the courtier needs. Peter Burke describes \"sprezzatura\" in \"The Book of the Courtier\" as “nonchalance”, “careful negligence”, and “effortless and ease.” The ideal courtier is someone who “conceals art, and presents what is done and said as if it was done without effort and virtually without thought.” (31).\n\nThe Count advocates the courtier engage in \"sprezzatura\", or this “certain nonchalance”, in all the activities he participates in, especially speech. In Book I, he states, \"Accordingly we may affirm that to be true art which does not appear to be art; nor to anything must we give greater care than to conceal art, for if it is discovered, it quite destroys our credit and brings us into small esteem.\" (Castiglione 1.26) The Count reasons that by obscuring his knowledge of letters, the courtier gives the appearance that his “orations were composed very simply” as if they sprang up from “nature and truth [rather] than from study and art.” (1.26). This much more natural appearance, even though it is not natural by any means, is more advantageous to the courtier.\n\nThe Count contends that if the courtier wants to attain \"grazia\" and be esteemed excellent, it would be in his best interest to have this appearance of nonchalance. By failing to employ \"sprezzatura\", he destroys his opportunity for grace. By applying \"sprezzatura\" to his speech and everything else he does, the courtier appears to have \"grazia\" and impresses his audience, thereby achieving excellence and perfection. (Saccone 16).\n\nAnother feature of rhetoric which Castiglione discusses is the role of written language and style. Castiglione declined to imitate Boccaccio and write in Tuscan Italian, as was customary at the time; instead he wrote in the Italian used in his native Lombardy (he was born near Mantua): as the Count says, “certainly it would require a great deal of effort on my part if in these discussions of ours I wished to use those old Tuscan words which the Tuscans of today have discarded; and what’s more I’m sure you would all laugh at me” (Courtier 70). Here, the use of the old and outdated Tuscan language is seen as a form of excess rather than a desirable trait. Castiglione states that had he followed Tuscan usage in his book, his description of sprezzatura would appear hypocritical, in that his effort would be seen as lacking in nonchalance (Courtier 71).\n\nFederico responds to the Count's assessment of the use of spoken language by posing the question as to what is the best language in which to write rhetoric. The Count’s response basically states that the language does not matter, but rather the style, authority, and grace of the work matters most (Courtier 71). Robert J. Graham, a Renaissance literary scholar, notes that “questions of whose language is privileged at any given historical moment are deeply implicated in matters of personal, social and cultural significance”, which he states is the primary reason for Castiglione’s usage of the native vernacular. This also illustrates the Count’s response on the relativity of language in Latin. With the role of language set, Castiglione begins to describe the style and authority in which the courtier must write in order to become successful.\n\nThe Count explains, \"it is right that greater pains would be taken to make what is written more polished and correct…they should be chosen from the most beautiful of those employed in speech\" (Courtier 71). This is where the style of which the courtier writes encourages the persuasiveness or successfulness of a speech. The success of a written speech, in contrast to the spoken speech, hinges on the notion that \"we are willing to tolerate a great deal of improper and even careless usage\" in oral rhetoric than written rhetoric. The Count explains that along with proper word usage, an ideal courtier must have a proper sense of style and flow to their words. These words must be factual yet entertaining as the Count states, “then, it is necessary to arrange what is to be said or written in its logical order, and after that to express it well in words that, if I am not mistaken, should be appropriate, carefully chosen, clear and well formed, but above all that are still in popular use\" (Courtier 77). This form of emphasis on language is noted by Graham as; \"Although the Count is aware that more traditional aspects of the orator (appearance, gestures, voice, etc.)…all this will be futile and of little consequence if the ideas conveyed by these words themselves are not witty or elegant to the requirements of the situation” (Graham 49).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57924110", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57924110", "title": "The Kindness Rock Project", "text": "The Kindness Rock Project\n\nThe Kindness Rock Project is a viral trend where people, commonly children, paint pebbles or cobbles and leave them for others to find and collect. Photos of the painted rocks and hints of where to find them are commonly shared on Facebook groups. The trend originated in the U.S. and has spread to the U.K., Australia, and New Zealand as well as other countries. \n\nThe Kindness Rock Project was started by Megan Murphy in 2015 who wrote \"You've got this\" on a rock and left it on a beach on Cape Cod. After a friend found it, she started leaving more rocks with inspirational messages behind.\n\nAs the trend of painting pebbles has spread, it has many derivatives. Rocks are painted as a fun activity for kids, as well as to support particular charities, events or movements. Sometimes the name of a hashtag or the Facebook group the painter belongs to is written on it as well.\n\n<nowiki>#</nowiki>Islastones was a rock-painting movement in support of Isla Tansey, a girl diagnosed with DIPG, a terminal cancer. Isla asked people to paint stones with the hashtag #islastones, take photos of them, and hide them. Isla died on July 10, 2018 at the age of 7, less than a year after her diagnosis. \n\nInternational Drop a Rock Day is an unofficial holiday celebrated on July 3rd, in which people are encouraged to leave a painted rock in a public space.\n\nSome parks have objected to people leaving painted rocks on their grounds, including the Texas Parks and Wildlife Department. Painted rocks were banned from several parks in the Marlborough region of New Zealand. Disneyland has banned painted rocks from entering the park and will confiscate them.\n\n"}
{"id": "49535", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49535", "title": "Thought experiment", "text": "Thought experiment\n\nA thought experiment (, \"Gedanken-Experiment\", or \"Gedankenerfahrung\",) considers some hypothesis, theory, or principle for the purpose of thinking through its consequences. Given the structure of the experiment, it may not be possible to perform it, and even if it could be performed, there need not be an intention to perform it.\n\nThe common goal of a thought experiment is to explore the potential consequences of the principle in question:\n\nExamples of thought experiments include Schrödinger's cat, illustrating quantum indeterminacy through the manipulation of a perfectly sealed environment and a tiny bit of radioactive substance, and Maxwell's demon, which attempts to demonstrate the ability of a hypothetical finite being to violate the 2nd law of thermodynamics.\n\nThe ancient Greek δείκνυμι \"(transl.: deiknymi)\", or thought experiment, \"was the most ancient pattern of mathematical proof\", and existed before Euclidean mathematics, where the emphasis was on the conceptual, rather than on the experimental part of a thought-experiment. Perhaps the key experiment in the history of modern science is Galileo's demonstration that falling objects must fall at the same rate regardless of their masses. This is widely thought to have been a straightforward physical demonstration, involving climbing up the Leaning Tower of Pisa and dropping two heavy weights off it, whereas in fact, it was a logical demonstration, using the 'thought experiment' technique. The 'experiment' is described by Galileo in \"Discorsi e dimostrazioni matematiche\" (1638) (literally, 'Discourses and Mathematical Demonstrations') thus:\n\nAlthough the extract does not convey the elegance and power of the 'demonstration' terribly well, it is clear that it is a 'thought' experiment, rather than a practical one. Strange then, as Cohen says, that philosophers and scientists alike refuse to acknowledge either Galileo in particular, or the thought experiment technique in general for its pivotal role in both science and philosophy. (The exception proves the rule — the iconoclastic philosopher of science, Paul Feyerabend, has also observed this methodological prejudice.)\n\nInstead, many philosophers prefer to consider 'Thought Experiments' to be merely the use of a hypothetical scenario to help understand the way things are.\n\nThought experiments have been used in a variety of fields, including philosophy, law, physics, and mathematics. In philosophy, they have been used at least since classical antiquity, some pre-dating Socrates. In law, they were well-known to Roman lawyers quoted in the Digest. In physics and other sciences, notable thought experiments date from the 19th and especially the 20th century, but examples can be found at least as early as Galileo.\n\nJohann Witt-Hansen established that Hans Christian Ørsted was the first to use the Latin-German mixed term \"Gedankenexperiment\" (lit. thought experiment) circa 1812. Ørsted was also the first to use its entirely German equivalent, \"Gedankenversuch\", in 1820.\n\nMuch later, Ernst Mach used the term \"Gedankenexperiment\" in a different way, to denote exclusively the \"imaginary\" conduct of a \"real\" experiment that would be subsequently performed as a \"real physical experiment\" by his students. Physical and mental experimentation could then be contrasted: Mach asked his students to provide him with explanations whenever the results from their subsequent, real, physical experiment differed from those of their prior, imaginary experiment.\n\nThe English term \"thought experiment\" was coined (as a calque) from Mach's \"Gedankenexperiment\", and it first appeared in the 1897 English translation of one of Mach’s papers. Prior to its emergence, the activity of posing hypothetical questions that employed subjunctive reasoning had existed for a very long time (for both scientists and philosophers). However, people had no way of categorizing it or speaking about it. This helps to explain the extremely wide and diverse range of the application of the term \"thought experiment\" once it had been introduced into English.\n\nThought experiments, which are well-structured, well-defined hypothetical questions that employ subjunctive reasoning (irrealis moods) – \"What might happen (or, what might have happened) if . . . \" – have been used to pose questions in philosophy at least since Greek antiquity, some pre-dating Socrates. In physics and other sciences many thought experiments date from the 19th and especially the 20th Century, but examples can be found at least as early as Galileo.\n\nIn thought experiments we gain new information by rearranging or reorganizing already known empirical data in a new way and drawing new (a priori) inferences from them or by looking at these data from a different and unusual perspective. In Galileo’s thought experiment, for example, the rearrangement of empirical experience consists in the original idea of combining bodies of different weight.\n\nThought experiments have been used in philosophy (especially ethics), physics, and other fields (such as cognitive psychology, history, political science, economics, social psychology, law, organizational studies, marketing, and epidemiology). In law, the synonym \"hypothetical\" is frequently used for such experiments.\n\nRegardless of their intended goal, all thought experiments display a patterned way of thinking that is designed to allow us to explain, predict and control events in a better and more productive way.\n\nIn terms of their theoretical consequences, thought experiments generally:\n\nThought experiments can produce some very important and different outlooks on previously unknown or unaccepted theories. However, they may make those theories themselves irrelevant, and could possibly create new problems that are just as difficult, or possibly more difficult to resolve.\n\nIn terms of their practical application, thought experiments are generally created to:\n\nScientists tend to use thought experiments as imaginary, \"proxy\" experiments prior to a real, \"physical\" experiment (Ernst Mach always argued that these gedankenexperiments were \"a necessary precondition for physical experiment\"). In these cases, the result of the \"proxy\" experiment will often be so clear that there will be no need to conduct a physical experiment at all.\n\nScientists also use thought experiments when particular physical experiments are impossible to conduct (Carl Gustav Hempel labeled these sorts of experiment \"theoretical experiments-in-imagination\"), such as Einstein's thought experiment of chasing a light beam, leading to special relativity. This is a unique use of a scientific thought experiment, in that it was never carried out, but led to a successful theory, proven by other empirical means.\n\nThe relation to real experiments can be quite complex, as can be seen again from an example going back to Albert Einstein. In 1935, with two coworkers, he published a paper on a newly created subject called later the EPR effect (EPR paradox). In this paper, starting from certain philosophical assumptions, on the basis of a rigorous analysis of a certain, complicated, but in the meantime assertedly realizable model, he came to the conclusion that \"quantum mechanics should be described as \"incomplete\"\". Niels Bohr asserted a refutation of Einstein's analysis immediately, and his view prevailed. After some decades, it was asserted that feasible experiments could prove the error of the EPR paper. These experiments tested the Bell inequalities published in 1964 in a purely theoretical paper. The above-mentioned EPR philosophical starting assumptions were considered to be falsified by empirical fact (e.g. by the optical \"real experiments\" of Alain Aspect).\n\nThus \"thought experiments\" belong to a theoretical discipline, usually to theoretical physics, but often to theoretical philosophy. In any case, it must be distinguished from a real experiment, which belongs naturally to the experimental discipline and has \"the final decision on \"true\" or \"not true\"\", at least in physics.\n\nThe first characteristic pattern that thought experiments display is their orientation\nin time. They are either:\n\nThe second characteristic pattern is their movement in time in relation to “the present\nmoment standpoint” of the individual performing the experiment; namely, in terms of:\n\nGenerally speaking, there are seven types of thought experiments in which one reasons from causes to effects, or effects to causes:\n\n\"Prefactual (before the fact) thought experiments\" — the term prefactual was coined by Lawrence J. Sanna in 1998 — speculate on possible future outcomes, given the present, and ask \"What will be the outcome if event E occurs?\"\n\n\"Counterfactual (contrary to established fact) thought experiments\" — the term \"counterfactual\" was coined by Nelson Goodman in 1947, extending Roderick Chisholm's (1946) notion of a \"contrary-to-fact conditional\" — speculate on the possible outcomes of a different past; and ask \"What might have happened if A had happened instead of B?\" (e.g., \"If Isaac Newton and Gottfried Leibniz had cooperated with each other, what would mathematics look like today?\").\n\nThe study of counterfactual speculation has increasingly engaged the interest of scholars in a wide range of domains such as philosophy, psychology, cognitive psychology, history, political science, economics, social psychology, law, organizational theory, marketing, and epidemiology.\n\n\"Semifactual thought experiments\" — the term \"semifactual\" was coined by Nelson Goodman in 1947 — speculate on the extent to which things might have remained the same, despite there being a different past; and asks the question Even though X happened instead of E, would Y have still occurred? (e.g., Even if the goalie had moved left, rather than right, could he have intercepted a ball that was traveling at such a speed?).\n\nSemifactual speculations are an important part of clinical medicine.\n\nThe activity of prediction attempts to project the circumstances of the present into the future. According to David Sarewitz and Roger Pielke (1999, p123), scientific prediction takes two forms:\n\nAlthough they perform different social and scientific functions, the only difference between the qualitatively identical activities of \"predicting\", \"forecasting,\" and \"nowcasting\" is the distance of the speculated future from the present moment occupied by the user. Whilst the activity of nowcasting, defined as “a detailed description of the current weather along with forecasts obtained by extrapolation up to 2 hours ahead”, is essentially concerned with describing the current state of affairs, it is common practice to extend the term “to cover very-short-range forecasting up to 12 hours ahead” (Browning, 1982, p.ix).\n\nThe activity of hindcasting involves running a forecast model after an event has happened in order to test whether the model's simulation is valid.\n\nIn 2003, Dake Chen and his colleagues “trained” a computer using the data of the surface temperature of the oceans from the last 20 years. Then, using data that had been collected on the surface temperature of the oceans for the period 1857 to 2003, they went through a hindcasting exercise and discovered that their simulation not only accurately predicted every El Niño event for the last 148 years, it also identified the (up to 2 years) looming foreshadow of every single one of those El Niño events.\n\nThe activity of \"retrodiction\" (or \"postdiction\") involves moving backwards in time, step-by-step, in as many stages as are considered necessary, from the present into the speculated past to establish the ultimate cause of a specific event (e.g., reverse engineering and forensics).\n\nGiven that retrodiction is a process in which \"past observations, events and data are used as evidence to infer the process(es) the produced them\" and that diagnosis \"involve[s] going from visible effects such as symptoms, signs and the like to their prior causes\", the essential balance between prediction and retrodiction could be characterized as:\nregardless of whether the prognosis is of the course of the disease in the absence of treatment, or of the application of a specific treatment regimen to a specific disorder in a particular patient.\n\nThe activity of \"backcasting\" — the term \"backcasting\" was coined by John Robinson in 1982 — involves establishing the description of a very definite and very specific future situation. It then involves an imaginary moving backwards in time, step-by-step, in as many stages as are considered necessary, from the future to the present to reveal the mechanism through which that particular specified future could be attained from the present.\n\nBackcasting is not concerned with predicting the future:\n\nAccording to Jansen (1994, p. 503:\n\nIn philosophy, a thought experiment typically presents an imagined scenario with the intention of eliciting an intuitive or reasoned response about the way things are in the thought experiment. (Philosophers might also supplement their thought experiments with theoretical reasoning designed to support the desired intuitive response.) The scenario will typically be designed to target a particular philosophical notion, such as morality, or the nature of the mind or linguistic reference. The response to the imagined scenario is supposed to tell us about the nature of that notion in any scenario, real or imagined.\n\nFor example, a thought experiment might present a situation in which an agent intentionally kills an innocent for the benefit of others. Here, the relevant question is not whether the action is moral or not, but more broadly whether a moral theory is correct that says morality is determined solely by an action's consequences (See Consequentialism). John Searle imagines a man in a locked room who receives written sentences in Chinese, and returns written sentences in Chinese, according to a sophisticated instruction manual. Here, the relevant question is not whether or not the man understands Chinese, but more broadly, whether a functionalist theory of mind is correct.\n\nIt is generally hoped that there is universal agreement about the intuitions that a thought experiment elicits. (Hence, in assessing their own thought experiments, philosophers may appeal to \"what we should say,\" or some such locution.) A successful thought experiment will be one in which intuitions about it are widely shared. But often, philosophers differ in their intuitions about the scenario.\n\nOther philosophical uses of imagined scenarios arguably are thought experiments also. In one use of scenarios, philosophers might imagine persons in a particular situation (maybe ourselves), and ask what they would do.\n\nFor example, in the veil of ignorance, John Rawls asks us to imagine a group of persons in a situation where they know nothing about themselves, and are charged with devising a social or political organization. The use of the state of nature to imagine the origins of government, as by Thomas Hobbes and John Locke, may also be considered a thought experiment. Søren Kierkegaard explored the possible ethical and religious implications of Abraham's binding of Isaac in \"Fear and Trembling\" Similarly, Friedrich Nietzsche, in \"On the Genealogy of Morals\", speculated about the historical development of Judeo-Christian morality, with the intent of questioning its legitimacy.\n\nAn early written thought experiment was Plato's allegory of the cave. Another historic thought experiment was Avicenna's \"Floating Man\" thought experiment in the 11th century. He asked his readers to imagine themselves suspended in the air isolated from all in order to demonstrate human self-awareness and self-consciousness, and the substantiality of the soul.\n\nIn many thought experiments, the scenario would be nomologically possible, or possible according to the laws of nature. John Searle's Chinese room is nomologically possible.\n\nSome thought experiments present scenarios that are not nomologically possible. In his Twin Earth thought experiment, Hilary Putnam asks us to imagine a scenario in which there is a substance with all of the observable properties of water (e.g., taste, color, boiling point), but is chemically different from water. It has been argued that this thought experiment is not nomologically possible, although it may be possible in some other sense, such as metaphysical possibility. It is debatable whether the nomological impossibility of a thought experiment renders intuitions about it moot.\n\nIn some cases, the hypothetical scenario might be considered metaphysically impossible, or impossible in any sense at all. David Chalmers says that we can imagine that there are zombies, or persons who are physically identical to us in every way but who lack consciousness. This is supposed to show that physicalism is false. However, some argue that zombies are inconceivable: we can no more imagine a zombie than we can imagine that 1+1=3. Others have claimed that the conceivability of a scenario may not entail its possibility.\n\nThe philosophical work of Stefano Gualeni focuses on the use of virtual worlds to materialize thought experiments and to playfully negotiate philosophical ideas. His arguments were originally presented in his 2015 book \"Virtual Worlds as Philosophical Tools\".\n\nGualeni's argument is that the history of philosophy has, until recently, merely been the history of written thought, and digital media can complement and enrich the limited and almost exclusively linguistic approach to philosophical thought. He considers virtual worlds to be philosophically viable and advantageous in contexts like those of thought experiments, when the recipients of a certain philosophical notion or perspective are expected to objectively test and evaluate different possible courses of action, or in cases where they are confronted with interrogatives concerning non-actual or non-human phenomenologies .\n\nAmong the most visible thought experiments designed by Stefano Gualeni:\n\nOther examples of playful, interactive thought experiments:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1395941", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1395941", "title": "Torah Umadda", "text": "Torah Umadda\n\nTorah Umadda (, \"Torah and secular knowledge\") is a philosophy of Orthodox Judaism concerning the relationship between the secular world and Judaism, and in particular between secular knowledge and Jewish religious knowledge. The resultant mode of Orthodox Judaism is referred to as Centrist Orthodoxy.\n\n\"Torah Umadda\" is closely associated with Yeshiva University. The actual philosophy underlying the combination of Torah and secular wisdom at Yeshiva University was variously articulated, first by Bernard Revel, by his successors Samuel Belkin and Joseph Soloveitchik, and most recently, and formally, by Norman Lamm. Although its roots go back to 1886, it was only in 1946 that the University adopted \"Torah Umadda\" as its slogan. (In 2005, Yeshiva University president Richard Joel initiated a campaign to append the phrase \"Bringing wisdom to life\", as a \"tag-line\" to the university's motto.) Today, Yeshiva University publishes the \"Torah Umadda Journal\" which \"explores the complex relationships between Torah, the humanities, and the natural and social sciences\", as well as studies on related topics in the \"Library of Jewish Law and Ethics\" (with Ktav Publishing House).\n\nThe phrase itself is thought to originate with Jonathan Eybeschutz, who mentions \"Torah u-Madda\" in his \"Yaarot Devash\" in at least sixteen places. This use of \"Madda\" as \"secular knowledge\" is, however, recent. In Rabbinic literature, \"secular knowledge\" is usually referred to as \"chokhmah\" . The first book in Maimonides' compendium of Halakha, the Mishneh Torah, is entitled \"Madda\" - there, though, the term refers to knowledge of the fundamentals of Judaism. \"In the first book I will include all the commandments that are principles of the law of Moses and that a man should know before all else, such as the Unity of God and the prohibitions related to idolatry. And I have called this book \"Sefer ha Madda\" the Book of Knowledge.\"\n\nTorah and Madda is also the doctrine of the Vilna Gaon ￼as stated in Sefer Kol Hator, that the torah is incomplete without knowledge of the 7 wisdoms.\n\nIn the view of \"Torah Umadda\", \"Jewishness and Jewish faith ... and the universal concerns and preoccupations of humanity\" are not \"fundamentally inapposite\"; Judaism and culture are, \"in essence part of one continuum\". Jewish knowledge and secular knowledge, \"Torah\" and \"Madda\", do not, therefore, require \"substantive reconciliation\" (Norman Lamm, \"Torah Umadda\" pp. 142–43); in fact, the study of Torah with other knowledge results in a heightened and enriched Judaism. As articulated by Rabbi Norman Lamm: \nAlthough \"Torah Umadda\" regards science and religion as separate, where the \"wisdom of the world\" maintains its own significance, it nevertheless conceives of a synthesis between the two realms. In this understanding, \"synthesis does not refer to a logical unity of the theories of science, democracy and Judaism\"; rather, the idea of synthesis has a psychological and a sociological meaning. Here, the \"individual has absorbed the attitudes characteristic of science, democracy and Jewish life and responds appropriately in diverse relations and contexts.\"\n\nGiven this conception, the realization of \"Torah Umadda\" may find \"different legitimate expressions in each individual.\" In his book Lamm explores six separate models of \"Torah Umadda\", including those presented by Maimonides, Samson Raphael Hirsch, and Abraham Isaac Kook. The philosophy recognizes the challenge this is likely to pose to its adherents, and posits a framework in which \"the confrontation between Judaism and secular culture results in heightened creativity within Judaism.\"\n\nDespite its acceptance of both Torah and secular knowledge and culture, \"Torah Umadda\" prioritizes a Torah outlook and Torah knowledge, and in its practice requires strict adherence to \"Halakha\" (Jewish law). \"Torah Umadda\" demands \"unquestioned allegiance to the primacy of Torah, and that the apprehension of all other intellectual disciplines must be rooted and viewed through the prism of Torah.\"\n\nIn the words of Rabbi Lamm, \"\"Torah Umadda\" does not imply ... coequality. Torah remains the unchallenged and preeminent center.\" It is noted that \"\"Torah Umadda\" can only be viable if it imposes strict limits on freedom of thought in areas that may challenge fundamental Jewish beliefs.\" As regards observance of Jewish law, \"Not a single fundamental of Judaism has been disturbed by us, we adhere to the same \"ikkarim\" (principles of faith), we are loyal to the same Torah, we strive for the same study of Torah and observance of \"mitzvot\" that our parents and grandparents before us cherished throughout the generations.\"\n\nAnother model of \"Torah Umadda\", less emphasized in Modern Orthodox literature, de-stresses the intellectual role of Madda. Rather, to some degree, \"the theories and methods of secular disciplines [can] be used to secure not \"intellectual\" ends, but \"practical\" ends in [daily life].\" God's blessing to Adam and Eve \"Fill the land and conquer it\" (Genesis 1:28) is interpreted by Rav Soloveitchik (as well as Samson Raphael Hirsch and Isaac Breuer) as a positive \"mitzvah\" calling man to develop and improve God's world; this \"mitzvah\" of creative activity expresses the divine image in all branches of human culture. Thus, secular knowledge enables the religious Jew \"to fulfill the biblical mandate of \"Fill the land and conquer it\" ... to carry out their responsibilities to others and, further, by increasing the modalities for improving human welfare, to expand the range of these responsibilities; and, finally, to fulfill the mandate of \"imitatio Dei\".\" See further under ; Divine Providence.\n\nCentrist Orthodoxy is the dominant mode of Modern Orthodox Judaism in the United States and the western world; it is also influential in the Modern Orthodox movement in Israel. \n\nCentrist Orthodoxy's \"weltanschauung\" (\"Hashkafa\") is characterised by \"education, moderation, and the centrality of the people of Israel.\" In general, differences between Centrist Orthodoxy and other Orthodox movements (both Haredi and Modern - e.g. Open Orthodoxy) result from the particular emphasis placed on each of these characteristics; see further discussion under Modern Orthodox Judaism.\n\n\"Madda\" entails \"worldly involvement\" in addition to its intellectual component - and places a high value on contribution to general society. Adherents of Centrist Orthodoxy are thus well represented, proportionately, in the professions and in academia - and to some extent in politics. Members of Haredi communities, by contrast, will typically not undertake any post high school secular education (except for specific exceptions for livelihood purposes), and will, in general, minimize involvement with the secular.\n\nFor Centrist Orthodoxy, moderation \"is the result neither of guile nor of indifference nor of prudence, it is a matter of sacred principle ... it is not the mindless application of the arithmetic mean... [rather] it is the earnest sober and intelligent assessment of each situation... [Thus], moderation issues from a broad weltanschauung rather than from tunnel vision.\" This moderation, \"seeking what is allowed rather than forbidden\", is manifest in three ways. Firstly, along with the Haredi community, the ideology demands adherence to the halakha; however it is not insistent that strictures (\"chumras\") are normative, rather, these are a matter of personal choice (see 3.1 and 4.1 under Modern Orthodox Judaism). Secondly, relative to the Haredi community - but less so than in non-orthodox communities - women are starting to play a public role within the community (in roles other than strictly religious). Thirdly, the movement will engage with the broader Jewish community, as discussed below, and with the secular world, as opposed to the Haredi approach of minimizing such contact.\n\nAll Orthodox ideologies place a high value on \"ahavat yisrael\" (love of ones fellow Jews) and all regard the Land of Israel as holy - and residence there as a \"mitzvah\". However, for Centrist Orthodoxy, the \"People of Israel\", additionally, play a central role. The resulting difference, relative to other philosophies, manifests in two ways. Firstly, involvement with non-orthodox will extend beyond \"outreach\" - in which many Haredi organisations engage - to continued institutional relations and cooperation (despite the \"deviationist violations of Torah and Halakha\" of the non-orthodox). Secondly, Centrist Orthodoxy places a high national, as well as religious, significance on the State of Israel. Centrist Orthodox institutions and individuals are therefore Zionist in orientation, and rates of \"Aliyah\" (immigration to Israel) from this community are high relative to others; study in Israeli \"Hesder Yeshivot\" is also common. Thus, although Centrist Orthodoxy and Religious Zionism are not identical, they share many of the same values and many of the same adherents.\n\nThe institutions of American Centrist Orthodoxy include:\n\n\n\"Torah im Derech Eretz\"—\"Torah with worldly involvement\"—is a philosophy of Orthodox Judaism concerning the relationship between Torah Judaism and the modern world, first articulated by Samson Raphael Hirsch in c. 1840. In some senses \"Torah Umadda\" and \"Torah im Derech Eretz\" are similar. Both value the acquisition of secular knowledge coupled with adherence to halakha; both, additionally, emphasise worldly involvement. In fact, \"Torah im Derech Eretz\" is sometimes put forward as one paradigm upon which \"Torah Umadda\" (and Modern Orthodoxy in general) is based.\n\nAt the same time though, the two are distinct in terms of emphasis. Whereas \"Torah Umadda\" maintains two separate realms—religious and secular—and accents the idea of (psychological and sociological) synthesis, \"Rabbi Hirsch's fight was not for balance and not for reconcilement, nor for synthesis and certainly not for parallel power, but for domination—for the true and absolute domination of the divine precept over the new tendencies\" (Isaac Breuer, Hirsch's grandson).\n\nAnother difference is that \"Torah Umadda\" does not disavow communal partnership with the non-Orthodox Jewish community, whereas for Rabbi Hirsch \"Austritt\" (the Halachic requirement to have no official ties with non-Orthodox communal institutions) was a defining characteristic of his community, and a major theme in his writings.\n\nWhile these distinctions can seem subtle (particularly the first), they have manifested in markedly divergent religious attitudes and perspectives. In fact, Shimon Schwab, leader of the \"Breuers\" community in Washington Heights, has been described as \"spiritually very distant\" from Torah Umaddah.\n\nNote further, that given both of the above, some have proposed that today, followers of \"Torah Umadda\" in fact assume a \"non-Hirschian position\", resembling more closely that of Rabbi Azriel Hildesheimer.\n\nCritics of \"Torah Umadda\", particularly within Haredi Judaism, see the complementarity of Torah and secular knowledge proposed by the philosophy as suggesting that the Torah is not of itself whole or complete. In their view, Torah Umadda is thus premised on a flawed appreciation of Torah. Furthermore, they believe that Torah Umadda is problematic in that its synthesis allows for an \"encroachment\" of the scientific worldview on Jewish theology. Torah Umadda thus represents a dilution of the \"pure sanctity\" (\"taharat hakodesh\") of the Torah.\n\nCriticism by Hasidic groups includes an additional Kabbalistic dimension. Here, the doctrine of \"Tzimtzum\" is understood to imply that since the physical world in fact \"conceals\" the existence and nature of the creator, study of the natural world will be unlikely to deepen one’s appreciation of God or understanding of Torah. \n\nAn additional consideration arises in that the role of the Jew in this world is understood, primarily, to be concerned with fulfillment of the Law and study of Torah: \"[One should] live by the light of these three things: love of God, love of Israel, and love of Torah\" (Baal Shem Tov). Thus, the study of secular ideas and devotion of time to secular activities not directly for the sake of Torah - or as is necessary for supporting oneself - may constitute \"spiritually damaging behavior\". The sciences in particular are considered problematic:\nAs above, critics within , the movement directly descended from Hirsch’s Frankfurt community, claim that the \"equality\" between Torah and secular posited by \"Torah Umadda\" in fact results in a diminution in the status of Torah - and a misrepresentation of the teachings of Rabbi Hirsch: \"even to suggest that anything can be parallel to Torah is a blasphemy of the highest order\". The distinction between the two approaches, though subtle, manifests in markedly divergent religious attitudes and perspectives; as above, Shimon Schwab, second Rabbi of this community in the United States, is described as being \"spiritually very distant\" from Yeshiva University.\n\nThe philosophies of Torah Umadda and Religious Zionism are not in any direct conflict, and generally coexist sharing both values and adherents. However, more conservative Religious Zionists differ with \"Torah Umadda\" in its approach to secular knowledge. In this view, engagement with secular ideas and situations is permissible and encouraged, but only insofar as this benefits the State of Israel. Here, then, secular knowledge is viewed as valuable for practical ends, though not in and of itself. Thus, for example, in contrast to \"Torah Umadda\", the study of literature and the humanities is discouraged here, whereas the study of engineering or medicine (and with subsequent practice in Israel) is deemed to be valuable.\n\nWithin the \"Torah Umadda\" camp itself, there are those who question whether \"the literature on \"Torah u-Madda\" with its intellectually elitist bias fails to directly address the majority of its practitioners\"; further, there are suggestions that \"the very logic of the practice is far removed from the ideology\" (\"The community works with an ideology of Torah combined with a suburban logic of practice\"). The contention here is that the \"\"Torah u-Madda\" suburbanite\" does not in reality engage in secular studies in order to achieve the intellectual synthesis described above, but rather \"view[s] a college degree as the gateway toward professional advancement.\" Thus, although \"Torah Umadda\" may allow students at Yeshiva University \"to navigate the use of their college years\", it may not provide a directly applicable theology for the contemporary Modern Orthodox family.\n\nIn \"The Crisis of Zionism\", Peter Beinart writes that while the motto of Yeshiva University is Torah Umaddah, many Modern Orthodox leaders have abandoned that intellectual openness \"in favor of an insularity that bespeaks both fear and insularity: fear that Orthodox Judaism cannot survive a dialogue with the outside world and arrogance that the outside world can add nothing of value to the world of Torah.\"\n\n\nNotes\n\nSources\n\nTorah u'Maddah Journal\n\nThe Library of Jewish Law and Ethics\n"}
{"id": "38191419", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38191419", "title": "Ursuline Academy (Great Falls, Montana)", "text": "Ursuline Academy (Great Falls, Montana)\n\nThe Ursuline Academy is a historic convent and former Catholic school located at 2300 Central Avenue in Great Falls, Montana, in the United States. Constructed by the Ursuline Sisters, a Catholic religious institute for women, the building was complete in 1912. It was originally known as the Ursuline Academy Boarding and Day School, a school for children age five to 12.\n\nThe building came to be known as Ursuline Centre in 1971. Ursuline sisters continued to live in the building, but rented out its classrooms and kitchen spaces as a retreat center and a meeting place. As of 2012, only one Ursuline sister continued to live at the site.\n\nThe building was listed on the National Register of Historic Places on September 26, 1991.\n\nIn March 1860, Jesuit priests established St. Peter's Mission on the Sun River about upriver from Fort Shaw, Montana. They moved the mission downstream in 1862, but this location proved difficult for agriculture. In April 1866 the mission moved again, this time to a position south of Bird Tail Rock (which is south of the modern town of Simms, Montana). The mission closed almost immediately due to hostility from the Piegan Blackfeet, but reopened in 1874. The mission moved again in 1881 to Birch Creek (a point about west-northwest of Cascade, Montana). In January 1884, the new (and founding) Bishop of the Roman Catholic Diocese of Helena, Jean-Baptiste Brondel, invited the Ursuline religious order to join the Jesuits at St. Peter's Mission and assist them in teaching converted Native Americans. Leader of the Toledo chapter, Mother Amadeus (Sarah Therese Dunne), led five Ursulines to St. Peter's in October. They quickly established a boarding school for girls (open to children of settlers and Native Americans). The Jesuits gave the nuns a farm to help them survive, and promised to pay them $200 a year to teach boys if more nuns could be brought to the mission. The Ursulines built a large stone building between 1882 and 1887 which served as their school and convent. The school later moved into a two-story wood frame building, and the sisters built a bakery, barn, corral, laundry, and workers' housing. The Ursulines—who believed in music and art training as well as education in reading, math, and science—also built a three-story opera house at St. Peter's in 1896.\n\nIn 1908, the wood frame Ursuline school at St. Peter's Mission burned to the ground. The Ursulines decided to move the center of their activity to nearby Great Falls, which was founded in 1883. The sisters were strongly supported by Bishop Mathias Lenihan, who led the Roman Catholic Diocese of Great Falls (which had formed in 1904). The Great Falls Townsite Company offered them any two city blocks. The Ursulines choose an area bordered by Central Avenue, 25th Street South, 2nd Avenue South, and 23rd Street South. The area was on a slight hill with a good view and relatively distant from the busy downtown commercial district.\n\nMother Francis Siebert oversaw the design and construction of the new building, which was named Ursuline Academy. The city agreed to close a block of 1st Avenue South and 24th Street South to create a unified grounds for the Ursulines. Noted local architect George H. Shanley designed the structure in a variation on the Gothic Revival style known as Collegiate Gothic Revival. Shanley donated a portion of his fee to the sisters, while contributions from the community and loans paid for the building. The Anaconda Copper Company, which owned the huge copper smelter in town, contributed the bricks. The cornerstone was laid in September 1911. Construction by the local firm of Leighland Kleppe and Company began in October 1911, and a pulley system, powered by horses, hauled brick and mortar into the air to the workmen. The school opened for students on September 3, 1912. Ursuline Academy was constructed on the northwest corner of the property. The north side of the structure was its main entrance. The eastern half of the property consisted of large gardens.\n\nTwo rooms of note were furnished at the time Ursuline Academy was completed. The first, the Green Parlor, was designed for entertaining guests, hosting teas, and special occasions. It was furnished with green rugs, upholstered furniture, and lightly tinted, translucent green window draperies. The room contained an 1840 harp made in France which was the property of Mother Angela Lincoln (a relative of Abraham Lincoln) and a baby grand piano manufactured by the Steinway company. The piano was the gift of a student, whose father gave it to her as a graduation present. The other room was the Bishop's Parlor, a private suite for the bishop and important visitors. The suite consisted of a sitting room, bedroom, and bath room. The sitting room was furnished with finely carved dark oak furniture and bookcases retrieved from St. Peter's Mission, and the bedroom with dressers made of cherry.\n\nThe Ursuline Academy originally was open only to girls. When the school opened, enrollment consisted of 40 boarders, 25 day students, and 30 part-time music students. The Ursuline Sisters expanded their educational offerings in 1920, and created Ursuline High School. It was housed within the academy building. Rapid expansion in enrollment led to the construction of a detached gymnasium south of the western end of the building in 1925. The school began accepting boys in 1927. An annex was built against the gymnasium to permit boarding of male students. Classes were strictly segregated, as were the playground and yards.\n\n1927 was also the year that the Ursuline Academy chapel was painted. The chapel is original to the building, and was blessed in 1912. The Stations of the Cross which hang on the walls were made in the 1890s, and the lectern originally used at St. Peter's Mission. Three large scenes, painted by Sister (later Mother) Raphael Schweda in 1927, hang behind the altar. Depicted are Saint Ursula leading a group of martyred virgins into heaven, and Saint Angela Merici (founder of the Ursuline order) surrounded by a group of young women. The third painting depicts a group of cherubs and angels. Female students at Ursuline Academy were used as models for the young women following Saint Ursula, and the faces of women in the paintins are recognizable as alumni of the school. There are also eight stained glass windows at the front and along the sides of the chapel, and the altar is flanked by statues of Joseph and Mary.\n\nFor five decades, the room on the fifth floor in the tower was used as an art studio. Mother Raphael used it as her classroom, and only art students were permitted access. Since the classroom lacked water, Mother Raphael carried buckets of water up to the room each day. (Mother Raphael also painted backdrops for plays at the Great Falls Civic Center, and made vestments for Catholic priests in many area churches.)\n\nThe Columbus Hospital School of Nursing opened in the city in 1898, and during World War II it greatly expanded its enrollment to meet wartime needs. Students in the nursing school slept in the Ursuline building with alongside the boarding school students. In 1950, Ursuline High School merged with two other Catholic high schools in the city to form Great Falls Central High School. This school opened on the northeast corner of the Ursuline property at 2400 Central Avenue. Throughout the 1950s and 1960s, Ursuline Academy also operated a candy store on its premises (with sweets manufactured by one of the sisters).\n\nExpansion of the Catholic educational system in the city of Great Falls in the 1950s and 1960s led to the creation of many more elementary and junior high schools with larger, modern facilities. Enrollment at Ursuline Academy dropped steadily, and the elementary school closed in 1966. The high school closed in 1973, and the Great Falls Public Schools purchased the building in 1975.\n\nWith the impending loss of the high school, Ursuline Academy's days as an educational institution came to a close. The institution changed its name to Ursuline Centre in 1971. The Ursuline sisters continued to live in the building (treating it as a retirement home), but the building changed its function. The sisters began renting the facility for meetings and retreats, using the dormitory space for guest sleeping quarters and the old school kitchens to provide food service. To continue the educational function of the Ursulines, a portion of the building was rented out as a day care center.\n\nIn 1997, the Ursuline Centre Historical Foundation was formed as a nonprofit entity to accept grants on behalf of the Ursuline Centre, manage the building, and operate the retreat. The foundation also assists the religious order in maintaining the building. A capital campaign to make much-needed repairs on the building began in 1998, and by September 2002 had raised $1.3 million. Although the campaign's original goal was to eventually raise $1.5 million, rising costs led the campaign leaders to raise the goal to $2 million. The foundation initially repaired the roof and replaced the building's 501 windows. In 2006, the electrical and plumbing systems were upgraded.\n\nIn 2010, the Ursulines entered into negotiations to transfer ownership of their building to the Ursuline Centre Historical Foundation. The Ursulines offered to sell the building outright to the foundation for $200,000, but the foundation declined. Although the foundation had the money to fund the purchase, the purchase would leave its funds nearly depleted—leaving nothing to continue making repairs. The building's exterior needed extensive conservation and maintenance work, and the fire-suppression system needed replacing. The foundation estimated this work would require $1 million. Although the sale fell through, the Ursulines agreed to give the foundation the right-of-first-refusal on any sale in the future. In addition, the Ursuline Order said it was eliminating its financial support of the retreat. To improve the center's financial viability, the Ursulines and foundation considered turning the former nuns' quarters (which were in excellent condition) into a retirement home for women, and finding more groups willing to use the busy retreat on weekdays.\n\nAt the time of the building's 100th anniversary in September 2012, more than $3 million had been spent to renovate and restore the structure. Replacement of the boiler and the electrical system had occurred, and work on the exterior was proceeding. Talks between the Ursulines and the foundation continued, in an attempt to reach agreement on a way to transfer ownership of the structure to the nonprofit.\n\nThe Ursuline Academy is a four-story building with a five-story central tower, and is constructed of stone and brick. The facade is trimmed with terra cotta with impressions of geometric forms. Stepped parapets exist on the main tower and wings. As originally constructed, the academy had of internal space. Eight gargoyles sit atop the central tower. According to the \"Great Falls Tribune\" in September 2012, they are thought to be the only working gargoyles in the entire state. The property on which the building sits is about 60 percent smaller than it originally was, due to the sale of the high school and its football field to the city in 1974.\n\nIcons throughout the building were painted by Mother Raphael Schweda. The chapel remains largely unaltered since its completion in 1927. Mother Raphael's fifth-floor classroom is now an art gallery featuring many of her works, which include portraits, religious images, and floral paintings.\n\nThe building's Amadeus Library, named for Mother Amadeus, contains an extensive of collection of early- and mid-20th century books and musical instruments. It also houses the archives for the Pacific Northwest Chapter of the Ursuline order.\n\nThe long second floor hallway is now known as the Heritage Gallery. Photographs of graduating classes, portraits of nuns and students, diplomas, and other memorabilia hang in this hallway. At the end of the hallway in a former girls' dormitory room is the Heritage Museum, which documents the history of the Ursulines in Montana and at Ursuline Academy. The museum also contains many Native American beadwork items and dresses donated to the Ursulines by tribes in Montana. Antique clocks, hand-carved chairs, and intricately detailed tables—many made by the sisters at St. Peter's Mission—are also housed in the museum. A painting of St. Peter's Mission by contemporary artist Ralph DeCamp also hangs in the room.\n\nChimes, original to the building, also still exist on the second floor. Capable of being heard through the building, each sister had a different signal which could be played on the chimes to summon her to the central office. The chimes were also used to call the sisters to chapel, and for signalling the start and end of classes.\n\nThe Ursuline Academy's meeting and retreat center can accommodate up to 100 people in dormitory rooms on the third and fourth floors. Space exists for multiple groups to use the facility at one time. The center also has a kitchen and kitchen staff of four. A 260-seat auditorium with stage exists on the second floor. As of 2011, the Ursuline Academy also was home to a preschool and day-care center.\n\nThe Ursuline Sisters partnered with the Sisters of Providence in 1932 to establish Great Falls Junior College for Women (a two-year post-secondary school) adjacent to the Ursuline Academy. The college was built on the northeast corner of the property. But the financial distress caused by the Great Depression caused the building to lie unfinished for decades. To accommodate the students, the college opened on September 8, 1932, in the Ursuline Academy. The college was diocesan, and not controlled by either religious order. The original enrollment was 14.\n\nIt became a coeducational college in 1937 known as Great Falls Junior College. By 1950, it had moved out of Ursuline Academy and was holding classes in the Old Columbus Hospital building at 1601 2nd Avenue North.\n\nAfter a reorganization of the Ursulines in 1958, the sisters agreed that they could no longer support the college. The Ursulines relinquished control of the junior college in 1960. The Sisters of Providence moved it to its present site between 20th and 23rd Streets South on 12th Street South. It is now known as the University of Great Falls.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5405253", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5405253", "title": "William Angus Knight", "text": "William Angus Knight\n\nWilliam Angus Knight (1836–1916) was a British writer, born at Mordington, Scotland, and educated at the University of Edinburgh. From 1876 to 1902 he was professor of moral philosophy in the University of St. Andrews. In the field of philosophy his work, editorial and other, includes his collection of \"Philosophical Classics for English Readers\" (15 volumes, 1880–90), some of which he wrote. Although he wrote numerous publications, he is probably best known for his works on Wordsworth. His edition of \"Wordsworth's Works and Life\" (1881–89) is contained in 11 volumes. He presented to the trustees of Dove Cottage, Grasmere, the poet's former home, all the editions of Wordsworth's poems which he possessed. He also corresponded with Robert Browning about Elizabeth Barrett Browning, and on his retirement in 1905 he came to Florence's Swiss-owned so-called English Cemetery to plant the red rose at her tomb, which still flourishes, to honour women's learning, though the enamelled plaque celebrating that act has since been stolen. His portrait was presented to St Andrews University by the Ladies Literate in Arts whose admission he encouraged.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11715384", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11715384", "title": "William Craig (philosopher)", "text": "William Craig (philosopher)\n\nWilliam Craig (November 13, 1918 – January 13, 2016) was an American academic and philosopher, who taught at the University of California, Berkeley, in Berkeley, California. His research interests included mathematical logic, and the philosophy of science, and he is best known for the Craig interpolation theorem.\n\nWilliam Craig was born in Nuremberg, German Empire, on November 13, 1918. He graduated from Harvard University with a Ph.D in 1951. He married Julia Rebecca Dwight Wilson and had four children: Ruth, Walter, Sarah, and Deborah. In 1959 he moved to UC Berkeley. He died on January 13, 2016, at the age of 97.\n\nCraig is particularly remembered in two theorems that bear his name:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "599192", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=599192", "title": "Witch doctor", "text": "Witch doctor\n\nA witch doctor was originally a type of healer who treated ailments believed to be caused by witchcraft. The term witch doctor is sometimes used to refer to healers, particularly in regions which use traditional healing rather than contemporary medicine. In contemporary society, \"witch doctor\" is sometimes used derisively to refer to homeopaths and faith healers.\n\nIn its original meaning, witch doctors were emphatically not witches themselves, but rather people who had remedies to protect others against witchcraft. Witchcraft-induced conditions were their area of expertise, as described in this 1858 news report from England:\n\nRecourse was had by the girl's parents to a cunning man, named Burrell, residing at Copford, who has long borne the name of \"The Wizard of the North:\" but her case was of so peculiar a character as to baffle his skill to dissolve the spell, Application was next made to a witch doctor named Murrell, residing at Hadleigh, Essex, who undertook to effect a cure, giving a bottle of medication, for which he did not forget to charge 3s. 6d., and promising to pay a visit on Monday evening to the \"old witch,\" Mrs. Mole, and put an end to her subtle arts...\n\n... the news of the expected coming of the witch-doctor spread far and wide, and about eight o'clock there could not have been less than 200 people collected near the cottage of Mrs. Mole to witness the supernatural powers of the Hadleigh wizard.\n\nThe \"Oxford English Dictionary\" states that the first record of the use of this term was in 1718, in Francis Hutchinson's work \"An Historical Essay concerning Witchcraft, with Observations upon Matters of Fact; Tending to Clear the Texts of the Sacred Scriptures, and Confute the Vulgar Errors about that Point.\" Hutchinson used the phrase in a chapter defending a prisoner who was charged with witchcraft, by asserting that the \"Witch-Doctor\" himself was the one using sorcery: \nThe said Dorothy Durent, having been with a Witch-Doctor, acknowledges upon Oath, that by his Advice she hang'd up her Child's Blanket in the Chimney, found a Toad in it at Night, had put it into the Fire, and held it there tho' it made a great and horrible Noise, and flash'd like Gunpower, and went off like a Pistol, and then became invisible, and that by this the Prisoner was scorch'd and burn'd lamentably. \nCharles Mackay's book, \"Extraordinary Popular Delusions and the Madness of Crowds\", first published in 1841, attests to the practice of belief in witch doctors in England at the time.\n\nIn the north of England, the superstition lingers to an almost inconceivable extent. Lancashire abounds with witch-doctors, a set of quacks, who pretend to cure diseases inflicted by the devil. The practices of these worthies may be judged of by the following case, reported in the \"Hertford Reformer,\" of the 23rd of June, 1838. The witch-doctor alluded to is better known by the name of the cunning man, and has a large practice in the counties of Lincoln and Nottingham. According to the writer in \"The Reformer,\" the dupe, whose name is not mentioned, had been for about two years afflicted with a painful abscess and had been prescribed for without relief by more than one medical gentleman. He was urged by some of his friends, not only in his own village but in neighbouring ones, to consult the witch-doctor, as they were convinced he was under some evil influence. He agreed and sent his wife to the cunning man, who lived in New Saint Swithin's, in Lincoln. She was informed by this ignorant impostor that her husband's disorder was an infliction of the devil, occasioned by his next-door neighbours, who had made use of certain charms for that purpose. From the description he gave of the process, it appears to be the same as that employed by Dr. Fian and Gellie Duncan, to work woe upon King James. He stated that the neighbours, instigated by a witch, whom he pointed out, took some wax, and moulded it before the fire into the form of her husband, as near as they could represent him; they then pierced the image with pins on all sides – repeated the Lord's Prayer backwards, and offered prayers to the devil that he would fix his stings into the person whom that figure represented, in like manner as they pierced it with pins. To counteract the effects of this diabolical process, the witch-doctor prescribed a certain medicine, and a charm to be worn next to the body, on that part where the disease principally lay. The patient was to repeat the 109th and 119th Psalms every day, or the cure would not be effectual. The fee which he claimed for this advice was a guinea.\nA healing ceremony held in Worcester, England on October 26, 2017, is a rare modern example of the practice in Europe. A sacred river blessing was conducted by a travelling witch doctor at the River Severn after rumours of a cholera risk. Vibrio cholerae non-O1/non-O139 was said to be present in the river due to migrating salmon which had consumed crustacean zooplankton carrying the bacteria.\n\nIn southern Africa, traditional healers are known as \"sangomas\". The \"Oxford English Dictionary\" states that the first use of the term \"witch doctor\" to refer to African shamans (i.e. medicine men) was in 1836 in a book by Robert Montgomery Martin.\n\nBBC News reported, on March 12, 2015, that, \"More than 200 witchdoctors and traditional healers have been arrested in Tanzania in a crackdown on the murder of albino people. \nThe killings have been driven by the belief – advanced by some witchdoctors – that the body parts have properties that confer wealth and good luck. According to the Red Cross, witchdoctors are prepared to pay $75,000 (£50,000) for a complete set of albino body parts. Nearly 80 albino Tanzanians have been killed since 2000, the UN says. The latest victims include a one-year-old albino boy, killed in north-western Tanzania. The government banned witchdoctors in January as part of its efforts to prevent further attacks and kidnappings targeting people with albinism.\"\n\n\"Jhākri\" () is the Nepali word for shaman. It is sometimes reserved specifically for practitioners of Nepali shamanism, such as that practiced among the Tamang people and the Magars; it is also used in the Indian states of Sikkim and West Bengal, which border Nepal.\n\nJhākri shamanism is practiced among numerous ethnic groups of Nepal and Northeast India, including the Limbu, Rai, Sunwar, Sherpa, Kami, Tamang, Gurung, Magars, Lepcha and Khas. Belief in spirits is prevalent, hence also the fear of spirit possession. Some vernacular words for \"jhākri\" are \"phedangbo\" in the Limbu language, \"maangpa\" or \"nakchyong\" in Khambu, and \"boongthing\" in Lepcha.\n\nJhākris perform rituals during weddings, funerals, and harvests. They diagnose and cure diseases. Their practices are influenced by Hinduism, Tibetan Buddhism, Mun, and Bön rites.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2173176", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2173176", "title": "Ágnes Heller", "text": "Ágnes Heller\n\nÁgnes Heller (born 12 May 1929) is a Hungarian philosopher and lecturer. She was a core member of the Budapest School philosophical forum in the 1960s and later taught political theory for 25 years at the New School for Social Research in New York City. She lives, writes and lectures in Budapest.\n\nÁgnes Heller was raised in a middle-class Jewish family. During World War II her father used his legal training and knowledge of German to help people get together the necessary paperwork to emigrate from Nazi Europe. In 1944, Heller's father was deported to the Auschwitz concentration camp where he died before the war ended. Heller and her mother managed to avoid deportation.\n\nWith regard to the influence of the Holocaust on her work, Heller has said:\n\nIn 1947, Heller began to study physics and chemistry at the University of Budapest. She changed her focus to philosophy, however, when her boyfriend at the time urged her to listen to the lecture of the philosopher György Lukács, on the intersections of philosophy and culture. She was immediately taken by how much his lecture addressed her concerns and interests in how to live in the modern world, especially after the experience of World War II and the Holocaust.\n\n1947 was also the year that Heller joined the Communist Party while at a Zionist work camp and began to develop her interest in Marxism. However, she felt that the Party was stifling the ability of its adherents to think freely due to the belief in Democratic centralism (total allegiance) to the Party. She was expelled from it for the first time in 1949, the year that Mátyás Rákosi came into power and ushered in the years of Stalinist rule.\n\nAfter 1953 and the installation of Imre Nagy as Prime Minister, Heller was able to safely undertake her doctoral studies under the supervision of Lukács, and in 1955 she began to teach at the University of Budapest.\n\nThe 1956 Hungarian Revolution was the most important political event of her life, for at this time she saw the effect of the academic freedoms of Marxist critical theory as dangerous to the entire political and social structure of Hungary. The uprising confirmed Heller's ideas that what Marx really means for the people is to have political autonomy and collective determination of social life.\n\nLukács, Heller and other critical theorists emerged from the Revolution with the belief that Marxism and socialism needed to be applied to different nations in individual ways, effectively questioning the role of the Soviet Union in Hungary's future. These ideas set Heller on an ideological collision course with the new Moscow-supported government of János Kádár: Heller was again expelled from the Communist Party and she was dismissed from the University in 1958 for refusing to indict Lukács as a collaborator in the Revolution. She was not able to resume her research until 1963, when she was invited to join the Sociological Institute at the Hungarian Academy as a researcher (Tormey 4–18) (Grumley 5–15). \nFrom 1963 can be seen the emergence of what would later be called the \"Budapest School\", a philosophical forum that was formed by Lukács to promote the renewal of Marxist criticism in the face of practiced and theoretical socialism. Other participants in the Budapest School included together with Heller her second husband Ferenc Fehér, György Márkus, Mihály Vajda and some other scholars with the looser connection to the school (such as András Hegedüs, István Eörsi, János Kis and György Bence).\n\nHeller's work from this period, concentrates on themes such as what Marx means to be the character of modern societies; liberation theory as applied to the individual; the work of changing society and government from \"the bottom up,\" and affecting change through the level of the values, beliefs and customs of \"everyday life\". Since 1990, Heller has been more interested in the issues of aesthetics in \"The Concept of The Beautiful\" (1998), \"Time Is Out of Joint\" (2002), and \"Immortal Comedy\" (2005).\n\nUntil the events of the 1968 Prague Spring, the Budapest School remained supportive of reformist attitudes towards socialism. After the invasion of Czechoslovakia by Warsaw Pact forces and the crushing of dissent, however, the School and Heller came to believe that the Eastern European regimes were entirely corrupted and that reformist theory was apologist. Heller explains in her interview with Polony that:\n\nThis view was completely incompatible with Kadar's view of Hungary's political future after the Revolution of 1956. According to her latest interview in the German newspaper Jungle World, she thinks that political and criminal processes after 1956 were antisemitic.\n\nAfter Lukács' death in 1971, the School's members became victims of political persecution, were made unemployed through their dismissal from their university jobs, and were subjected to official surveillance and general harassment. Rather than remain as dissidents, Heller and her husband the philosopher Ferenc Fehér, along with many other members of the core group of the School, chose exile in Australia in 1977.\n\nHeller and Fehér encountered what they regarded as the sterility of local culture and lived in relative suburban obscurity close to La Trobe University in Melbourne, and they assisted in the transformation of \"Thesis Eleven\" from a labourist journal to a leading Australian journal of social theory before its subsequent conversion to \"American civilization\" (Tormey 4–18)(Grumley 5–15).\n\nAs described by Tormey, Heller's mature thought during this time period is based on the tenets that can be attributed to her personal history and experience as a member of the Budapest School, focusing on the stress on the individual as agent; the hostility to the justification of the state of affairs by reference to non-moral or non-ethical criteria; the belief in \"human substance\" as the origin of everything that is good or worthwhile; and the hostility to forms of theorizing and political practice that deny equality, rationality and self-determination in the name of \"our\" interests and needs, however defined.\n\nHeller and Fehér left Australia in 1986 to take up positions in The New School in New York City, where Heller currently holds the position of Hannah Arendt Professor of Philosophy in the Graduate Studies Program. Her contribution to the field of philosophy has been recognized by the many awards that she has received (such as the Hannah Arendt Prize for Political Philosophy, Bremen, 1995) and the Szechenyi National Prize in Hungary, 1995 and the various academic societies that she serves on, including the Hungarian Academy of Sciences. In 2006 she visited China for a week for the first time.\n\nHeller currently researches and writes prolifically on ethics, Shakespeare, aesthetics, political theory, modernity, and the role of Central Europe in historical events.\n\nIn 2006, she was the recipient of the Sonning Prize, in 2010 she received the Goethe Medal.\n\nIn 2010, Heller, with 26 other well known and successful Hungarian women, joined the campaign for a referendum for a female quota in the Hungarian legislature.\n\nHeller continues to publish internationally renowned works, including republications of her previous works in English, all of which are internationally revered by scholars such as Lydia Goehr (on Heller's \"The Concept of the Beautiful\"), Richard Wolin (on Heller's recent republication of \"A Theory of Feelings\"), Dmitri Nikulin (on comedy and ethics), John Grumley (whose own work focuses on Heller in \"Agnes Heller: A Moralist in the Vortex of History\"), John Rundell (on Heller's aesthetics and theory of modernity), Preben Kaarsholm (on Heller's \"A Short History of My Philosophy\"), among others.\n\nHeller is now Professor Emeritus at the New School for Social Research in New York. She continues to work actively both academically and politically around the globe. Recently she has spoken at the Imre Kertész College in Jena, Germany together with Polish sociologist, Zygmunt Bauman , at the Tübingen Book Fair in Germany speaking together with Former German Justice Minister, Herta Däubler-Gmelin, , and other venues worldwide.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
